US	45397516	R4PKKK856KKQK	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Magical  novela :Cross-cultural joys of reading the classics	This short book is a  true gem, a novela for book lovers everywhere. Three Chinese teenagers have their junior high school education prematurely terminated when they find themselves exiled for reducation to a remote and primative peasant village during the Cultural Revolution. Their daily lives are preoccupied with onorous work: either risky hard  labor in the  local coalmines or hauling manure baskets uphill.  Their sentences are open ended. There are no prospects of a future beyond their present isolation anywhere in sight. They are placed in a milieu of complete intellectual deprivation, a village where even the most rudimentary reading skills are elitist.  <br />     It is in such a setting  that the delightful discovery and procurement of a stash of forbidden foreign books by classic authors occurs. This fortuitous event enables them to dream and brings them great happiness as they escape from their bleak surroundings. Adolescent love follows as  their good fortune is shared and compounded by reading aloud to  a beautiful young seamstress. Sijie's prose is simple and effective. The storyline is based on personal experience. The book's pages turn effortlessly with scattered humorous incidents ( eg. Mozart composing for Chairman Mao)and with anticipation to the bittersweet conclusion. The impact will linger. Maybe this book will inspire you to try  Balzac! <br />	2005-05-29
US	45397516	R3IXWIXDNRVMMF	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Unique and Highly Creative Look at a Terrible Tragedy	Lovely Bones is  highly  original,  creatively imagined , and  a very beautifully written story of an adolescent rape murder victim and those she leaves behind. As Susie relates her tale, she is watching the rest of the world go on living with a remarkable sense of detachment which only a victim could feel. Having suffered the emotional trauma following rape, the author, Alice Sebold, must have understood and know this feeling all too well. While one might expect the book to be overwhelmingly sad, this  is not the case. We witness the deceased  Susie happily existing  in her own custom made heaven with an ability to  visit  and  to feel in  close proximity to those she loved on earth, albeit undetected.  She also lacks an ability to  intervene or interact with them and to experience life  beyond her fourteen years.<br />   The story is very touching and certain scenes will linger in each readers&#146; memory. Especially moving  is the conflict Susie suffers when her critically ill father&#145;s life hangs in limbo following a heart attack. Susie, feeling lonely in her heaven, really wants his death but  realizes how selfish her wish is. The author finds a particularly heartwarming resolution for this chapter. <br />     The chilling rape murder scene, which opens this novel  has the potential to be very gruesome.  The event occurs  in an underground room (symbolically foreshadowing a  &#147;grave&#147;) which is hidden in a cornfield. The unsuspecting Susie is lured there by a neighbor on her way home from school .By having this awful scene narrated retrospectively by an already deceased and emotionally detached Susie who is still  &#147;alive&#147; only in a different form ,  much of the terror ,tragedy, and pain she must have experienced and felt  are successfully removed from this narration. Written in simple prose , but conveying  deeply felt emotions, this book will affect the reader long afterwards.	2002-11-09
US	45397516	R3Q0POC2HB5MG0	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Magical Literary Experience in the Operatic Tradition	While opera creates its magic with  music, Ann Patchett's Bel Canto does so with words. A highly original novel, the beauty of this gem lies in the interactions  of  its characters  and  in the author's writing style.  The plot is relatively simple.<br />     Both terrorists and captives become hostage to the prolonged impasse that develops following  a botched kidnapping attempt on the  President of a developing South American  country. The ensuing stalemate allows  for the development of  camaraderie, bonding , affection, and even romantic relationships to develop as familiarity grows between the  benevolent terrorists  of the  Familia Suarez and  their unintentionally obtained international array of captives .   As the stand off continues, Ann Patchett has our complete and undivided attention.  We eagerly read on to see a resolution to this highly charged  situation.<br />    Patchett's sense of irony adds some comic relief to what would otherwise be a very  tense dramatic situation. For example: she attributes the absence of the country's President for his kidnapping to his obsession with the country's favorite soap opera .<br />     Realistically we know some of the captives would have sought escape opportunities,. We know that not all the  terrorists would have  universally  have become instantaneous  opera fans. Despite the odds, not every single man in the room would  be inclined to fall in love with the opera star. <br />      It's ok if this novel's a bit unrealistic. If you think about it- so is  the book's subject, opera.- but both provide a gratifying entertainment experience in its highest form.	2002-10-04
US	45397516	R39TPET8D1312O	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Prodigal Summer: A Summer of Reckless Extravagance	Prodigal Summer means a \\"  Recklessly Extravagant or Wasteful \\" Summer according to Merriam Webster's Dictionary. This richly endowed natural setting  of an  Applachian summer's abundance  provides the backdrop for three interwoven  tales of  human lives. At first  seemingly unrelated, the chapters alternate in a disjointed fashion . This particular format initally seemed distracting, and  I have to admit I jumped ahead at times to maintain continuity. Apparent links  appear half way through, and by the final pages the  interrelationship  of the characters  and the impending inevitable convergence of their lives becomes clear. <br />     I think there must be a bit of Kingsolver in all three of her heroines: the independent, strong minded, and adventuresome Deanna; the ethnically  unusual Jewish-Palestinian Muslim American ,  Lusa, (who finds herself  locally  labelled as \\" one of those other Christianities\\" ); and the nonconforming elderly and feisty Unitanian single mother, Nanny Rawley . Like the female coyote , none of its three strong and independent female human prototypes really needs a man for survival or for much more than the biological functions of procreation and sex.<br /> Kingsolver's messages are loud and clear: \\"Go organic-no pesticides!\\", respect rather than hunt predators, and we humans responding to our own biological rhythms and pheromones are  just a part of this complex, diverse, and abundant  biosphere.<br />     The final chapter, devoid of its  human characters,  focuses solely on the surrounding rich natural world  with its central figure, a triumphant female coyote. She has succeeded in establishing  new turf over the course of the  summer, despite a bounty hunt and despite the irrational hatred of her predatory human hunters. Visually imagined, the ending graphically would be akin to a  movie that fades from human action  to a panoramic overview of the natural  settting before final credits appear.<br />Read this book for its well craftedconverging stories, for the wonderful descriptions of  the fauna and flora that inhabit this biosphere , and for its interesting and strong female characterizations. Don't get bogged down in the detailed descriptions of the plant and animal kingdom. Enjoy them for the overall wonderful feeling of the exuberant abundance  of nature that this book creates.	2002-09-13
US	45397516	RDX5P59C41MRX	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Unique Twist on an Ancient Tale	In choosing a time period so rarely addressed by historical fiction writers and by focusing her book on the  gender the early Old Testament chapters scarcely touch on, Diamant has given her  novel   a unique perspective.  Polygamy creates a most  unusual family structure for her the heroine, Dinah , who is blessed with 4 mothers!  Exactly how frightening and deadly an event childbirth could be in those days is well depicted in  the book's midwifery scenes.  The continued mingling of polytheism with monotheism into the second and third generational descendents of Abraham and Sarai demonstrates that the change to montheism  was not immediate  in the Jewish faith and that there was a mingling of cross cultural traditions  in this early time period.<br />Poetic license with its deviations from and contradictions with the Biblical record clearly make this book a fictional account.<BR>The effect on the reader is confusion. Which parts were indeed fact and which were fiction? The  answers can obviously be found in the original Biblical text or for a more readable accounting- in the chapter called the  \\"Rape of Dinah\\" in<BR>Jonathan Kircsh\\"s anthology of rarely discussed   Old Testament stories entitled The Harlot by the Roadside.  The really astonishing  surprise comes when  the most far fetched  portions of this novel (which this reader was absolutely convinced were fictional) proved to be   true events ! The circumcision of all male inhabitants of a town as the terms of Dinah's  bride price and the duplicity of Jacob's sons\\" in inflicting  subsequent annihilation on the weakened and recovering inhabitants  who had just paid this awesome price- come right out of the pages of Genesis.<br />Cahill's book Gift of the Jews  attributes radical changes in Western thinking to the unique concept of montheism  which originated in the Jewish faith. This book portrays the early Jews as divided between monotheism and polytheism along gender lines. Only the male members  worship El (oheim) . All females  are universally polytheists and even Rebecca,  Isaac's wife,  is cast as a diviner. Despite  cultural intermingling and intermarriages,  it is difficult to fathom so  a universal  a division, especially along gender lines into the fourth generation of Jews. Since the novel focus on women who are all polytheists,  the people in this novel hardly seem to be the  iconoclastic early Jews  Cahill describes. <br />   Enjoy this book its glimpses of an ancient world in transition  and read it  for a good historical rendition of  womens' lives - but take this tale with a grain of salt. It is what it purports to be: a work of fiction.	2002-08-28
US	45397516	R2AIEFSBGTQ9UJ	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	J. Lahiri :The Interpreter of Maladies  Who Touches the Soul	The stories  J Lahiri relates resemble captured  still portraits in time. Just as James Joyce's  epiphanys represent moments of revelation  and recognition, some of these sketches  portray pivotal moments,  real turning points in ordinary peoples' lives. One such touching story describes the fragile  first moment of  true communication and recognition of shared grief in a rapidly disintegrating marriage after a stillbirth. This simple but critical event nearly fails to happen. It is ironically brought about by an unexpected series of planned power outages which portend to save this marriage.<br />  Many other stories  provoke deep reflection and thought, and linger on in our memories.   The essential futility and tragedy which is caused by religious conflicts between the Indian Hindu and the Pakistani Islamic populations  is graphically depicted . The irrationality of religious intolerance is addressed in the ironic dinner scenes of immigrants from these very  two confrontational backgrounds sociably eating  together while watching the evening  tv news coverage of that military conflict. They obviously have become good friends after discovering each other in the US. Lahiri poses that essential rhetorical question - how else are they different?<br />Each of the stories in this volume is well crafted, sensitive and  meaningful. Lahiri offers us quite  a nice assortment. The fact that these are stories concern Indians in India, returning Indian emigrees from the US, Indian American imigrants and  first generation Indian Americans adds ethnic flavor and interest, but the themes Lahiri addresses are universal.<br />The format of a short story by nature  demands  brevity  and conciseness for impact. Rarely do short stories leave lasting impressions. Only exceptional writers like William Styron are sufficiently  skilled  to convey  real meaning  so that that brief encouter lingers on  in the reader's memory. The maladies affecting her protagonists which J. Lahiri relates so well will follow us as  we lay down this thin volume  and ponder what we have read, a testimony to her skill and art as  a writer. I look forward her development in fiction to the day she authors her first novel	2002-08-20
US	45397516	R14YZO08KM2LWI	0140259112	537335705	Bed and Breakfast	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Everyday People, Christmas Family Friction in Nostalgic B+B	The theme Lois Battle addresses in her nostalgic southern Bed and Breakfast is domestic discord. The setting is Christmas, a time all the rest of the world seems to be enjoying a season of  hope, peace, love and family togetherness.<BR>Following a decade of separation, a widowed mother of three grown daughters is prompted to plan a special Christmas reunion after  witnessing a friend's close encounter with death.  <BR>The ensuing friction and strife that occur  stem from old  established patterns of sibling rivalry, jealousy, and unforgiven past transgressions. The myth of a happy family reunion Josie has dared to dream is shattered. The manner in which the author  neatly ties together her themes and resolves most of the conflicts to our satisfaction, even managing to end the novel on a happy romantic note, makes this book an enjoyable read to curl up with. The book has many  well developed believable characters, and explores many familiar problems friends,  families , and couples experience in real  life. .	2002-08-07
US	45397516	R2YIUWHD3PGZI0	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Great Book to Read Despite its Weakest Link	This book takes a fascinating and imaginative look at human survival in the village of Eyam during the plague year of 1665 where the odds for death are 2 in 3. Despite taking on as morbid a subject as this fateful epidemic, the novel manages to keep up our interest in our heroine's fate. We follow  her proactive adventures and attempts at midwifery, herbal medicine, and even mining as she and the rector's wife stay actively involved, aspiring to humanitarily aid the sick, orphaned, and dying through this ordeal. The language Brooks  uses  lends realism to the setting, especially her utilization of  Old English words no longer part of our modern day vocabulary. It is clear that this author did a good bit of historical research.<br /> One unrealistic element present is a \\"time machine\\" sort of phenomenon.  Our heroine's attitudes, thinking, and comprehension are a reflection of our own times. We find her to be  surprisingly modern rather than medieval in character. For example: Anna unquestioningly and promptly attributes abberent behavior to mental derangement, although the woman in black along with her incantations, chants, and charms would most likely be labelled a witch in those times which preceded the development of psychology and psychiatry.<BR>    <BR>      Some very colorful characters are created such as the greedy gravedigger and the flagellante ascetic which add flavor to this novel. In fact, this book reads very well and quickly until we come to its weakest link, the incongrous ending, so far fetched as to be implausible. In many ways the conclusion seems borrowed both in subject matter, setting, and style from a chapter in some  romance novels.  After reading such a great, fast moving, and very well written story, our anticipation results in disappointment. The ending is so troubling as to motivate this reader with a desire  to rewrite it.	2002-08-04
US	45397516	R1P29FVLUCI81Z	1583222723	668754144	Lydia Cassatt Reading the Morning Paper	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Reading this beautiful volume: akin to visiting a museum....	This very short novella about the famed impressionist Mary Cassatt,  is narrated from the uniquely interesting perspective of her unknown and tragically short lived sister who was afflicted by an illness incurable in those days. Five of Mary's  paintings which portray Lydia are chosen and very nicely reproduced in this small neatly compact volume. Each becomes the focus of a chapter. There is no real plot or action or suspense. Instead, reading each of  these five introspective chapters mimics the act of really contemplating a work of art. The art lover will particularly enjoy and learn from Chessman's descriptions of the paintings and the way she relates them to Lydia's illness. Overall the amount of biographical information revealed about the Cassatts is relatively small. For example we learn Mary would outlive Lydia and go on to paint for 30 more years-but not that she would suffer the tragedy of blindness in her later years. The book will leave the reader eager to know more and to view Mary's work.	2002-07-23
US	45397516	R3DC31XABKO26	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	2 Plots Featuring Blind Assassins, A Tale About 2 Authors	This is initially quite a confusing book to start and does require some effort on the reader's part  to persist. The chapters which begin with a realistic narrative about two sisters  are frequently interrupted by interspersed chapters relating  a bizarre science  fiction tale. Flashbacks and foreshadowing add to the confusion. Persistence becomes rewarding when a third narrative links the  two seemingly unrelated  plots in a clever and unexpected fashion. The reader's interest and the novel's pace pick up. There are several  more surprising plot twists and  the truth is eventually, but only gradually, revealed. <br />       The author's skill at interweaving these plots, her keen insights and observations, and her polished  literary style  and masterful use of language,  which at times flows almost poetically , all add to the effect of the whole- which is truly the sum of its parts .The characters are interesting and well developed even if they are flawed and not very likable. <br />      This novel is more intricate, more difficult and longer reading material, than many of Margaret Atwood's other novels such as  Robber Bride or Cat's Eye,. Try those for  easier reading  and much faster moving storylines. This  is,  however, a very unusual  and a very creative work, well worth the reader's time and effort. The divison  into small chapters helps and it actually makes this book a good choice for bedtime reading. <br />  I agree with other reviewers that there are indeed  analogies between the two plots involving  the sci fi  mute sacrificial maiden rescued by a blind assassin and the sister forced to marry as an arranged  business deal. I would add that there are also really two characters which  fit the title of \\"blind assassin,\\"- one  real and one  figurative .	2002-06-19
US	45397516	R2E6P8PN64D5SV	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Read the book?Now hear the tape!	To those who really enjoyed the book version of  Rebecca Wells' Divine Secrets: listen to her tape. It is a three hour condensed version of the novel with characterizations dramatically performed by the author herself who is an actress turned novelist. The abridged version edited by Mary Helen Clarke offers a more focused storyline, concentrating on the mother-daughter conflict between Sidda and Vivi. Vivi's life story is abridged and the chapters dealing with Vivi's childhood have been edited out ( eg. Shirley Temple Look Alike Contest,  Gone with the Wind Opening).  To those who really enjoyed the tape: seriously consider reading the book to expand on the storyline and spend more time with these amazing characters.	2002-04-13
US	45397516	R3S6O8NPPGNJST	0786886994	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle For Survival at the South Pole	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Extreme Adventure-Extreme Isolation	If ever in your wildest imaginings, you  would ever  consider wintering  in the coldest, darkest place on earth, then this is  the book for you.  It is absolutely amazing to consider all  the difficulties involved in human survival  in this harshest of climates at the south pole. While dressing in multiple heavy layers to conserve body heat,  one still has to inhale the frigid air. I never realized how  hypoxic (low in oxygen) living conditions were until I read this book. There are physiological reasons in addition to the two mile thick ice layer that make the south pole a high altitude experience. Even more amazing to consider  is that 8 month period of total isolation incurred during the dark, long polar winter.  The book does a great job of successfully relating the challenges posed by this extremely brutal environment. It vividly impresses the reader with  the  very  tenuous and fragile nature of human  existence in conditions where electric generators are an umbilical cord . Severance means certain death for all humans at the station since outside winter temperatures drop three digits  below zero ( below -100 degrees)! <br />     The book also deals with the ordeal of  facing serious illness or traumatic injury in this harsh isolated environment. The doctor is a one man/woman show. She/he is a jack- of -all medical trades, performing multiple other duties (those of a nurse, lab technician , x-ray technician ,storekeeper, and Radiologist, etc. )  This most rudimentary medical care is further jeopardized when that solo doctor becomes a patient and medical evacuation/replacement is not an option for many months.  This is  the story of a doctor  who having diagnosing her own breast cancer  is stuck with a lenghty delay in treatment, watching her tumor grow  in a setting  where treatment options are essentially  nonexistent- much as in  the days of our ancestors, before anesthesia, surgery, chemotherapy,  and radiation therapy . (Fortunately an emergency drop of chemotherapeutic drugs and a medevac eventually  do take place.)<br />     This is an enlightening and educational book. It effectively relates the very deep sense of camaraderie and coping mechanisms shared by the polies .  Written as a narrative with copies of email scattered between the paragraphs to expand on the story, it could use editing to eliminate redundancy  especially in the emails . A more concise and smoother flowing narration would improve readability. For the scientifically curious,  more information about ongoing polar research would add to the book.  Overall, an interesting and worthwhile read, certainly an experience this less adventurous reader prefers to be vicarious!	2002-04-12
US	45397516	RBWQSXCSYWXHK	0786886994	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle For Survival at the South Pole	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Extreme Adventure-Extreme Isolation	If ever in your wildest imaginings, you  would ever  consider wintering  in the coldest, darkest place on earth, then this is  the book for you.  It is absolutely amazing to consider all  the difficulties involved in human survival  in this harshest of climates at the south pole. While dressing in multiple heavy layers to conserve body heat,  one still has to inhale the frigid air. I never realized how  hypoxic (low in oxygen) living conditions were until I read this book. There are physiological reasons in addition to the two mile thick ice layer that make the south pole a high altitude experience. Even more amazing to consider  is that 8 month period of total isolation incurred during the dark, long polar winter.  The book does a great job of successfully relating the challenges posed by this extremely brutal environment. It vividly impresses the reader with  the  very  tenuous and fragile nature of human  existence in conditions where electric generators are an umbilical cord . Severance means certain death for all humans at the station since outside winter temperatures drop three digits  below zero ( below -100 degrees)! <br />     The book also deals with the ordeal of  facing serious illness or traumatic injury in this harsh isolated environment. The doctor is a one man/woman show. She/he is a jack- of -all medical trades, performing multiple other duties (those of a nurse, lab technician , x-ray technician ,storekeeper, and Radiologist, etc. )  This most rudimentary medical care is further jeopardized when that solo doctor becomes a patient and medical evacuation/replacement is not an option for many months.  This is  the story of a doctor  who having diagnosing her own breast cancer  is stuck with a lenghty delay in treatment, watching her tumor grow  in a setting  where treatment options are essentially  nonexistent- much as in  the days of our ancestors, before anesthesia, surgery, chemotherapy,  and radiation therapy . (Fortunately an emergency drop of chemotherapeutic drugs and a medevac eventually  do take place.)<br />     This is an enlightening and educational book. It effectively relates the very deep sense of camaraderie and coping mechanisms shared by the \\"polies\\" .  Written as a narrative with copies of email scattered between the paragraphs to expand on the story, it could use editing to eliminate redundancy  especially in the emails . A more concise and smoother flowing narration would improve readability. For the scientifically curious,  more information about ongoing polar research would add to the book.  Overall, an interesting and worthwhile read, certainly an experience this less adventurous reader prefers to be vicarious!	2002-04-12
US	45397516	R37EFPYIS9RFFV	0060976845	82289117	Little Altars Everywhere	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Neatly Perceptive,Touching Narrative-not Pretty-but Real	This prequel  to Divine Secrets is really a volume of short stories which  provide glimpses into the Walker family life. Narration is  by the 6 members of the immediate Walker family and their two servants. Each character's perspective provides an intimate look  into the very troubled family dynamics of growing up with an alcoholic abusive mother and an alcoholic escapist dad.  We get to know the Walker family over 2 generations , as parents and children and later on, as grandparents and parents.<br />     While the volume unquestionably has its weaker and stronger links, this book contains some really beautifully written, touching chapters. These very perceptive stories  focus on  interesting  issues.<BR>- Service on the local draft board of a small town during Vietnam places  Mr. Walker in   some very emotionally trying situations .<BR>- A  confused and lost elderly black field hand  who is futilely seeking nonexistent  mules on developed land elicits a truly empathetic reaction and  melancholic  reverie from Mr. Walker. .He realizes his farm has become  totally enclosed by sprouting  condos and 7-11s.  Having  watched the neighborhood farmlands being  paved over, there is recognition that the inherited family legacy is destined to suffer a similar fate as his own progeny chose more profitable and often less satisfying trades <BR>-. Race relation challenges  provide story plots.   The black tenants and servants of the Walkers, Chaney and Willetta ,are presented with a real  moral challenge when they find themselves inadvertent witnesses to an awful episode of  child abuse out of control -next door at their white neighbors . With total economic dependence  on their employers and landlords, they are faced with  a very difficult choice regarding  intervention. An earlier  reprimand from Vivi  (reducing Willetta to her servile status and very clearly  warning  her to stay out of Walker family affairs ) only makes this choice so much more difficult.<BR> It with these kind of touching stories that Rebecca Wells so skillfully builds and develops the empathetic characters  we come to care about and relate to in this book.<br />     <BR>While Little Altars is a collection of short stories told from the perspective of many characters...Little Altars is much more deeply disturbing and adult in its content.  It's repertoire includes alcoholism, abuse, and molestation. Both are very well worthwhile for mature readers. <BR>I look forward to the sequel! Incidentally, don't skip the unusual introductory \\"Note to the Reader\\" by Wells about reader-author interactions.	2002-03-14
US	45397516	R1LV5TG1DIUCFE	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	It takes two to make a marriage	This is a good weekend book about a woman struggling with the sudden and  unexpected failure of a long term marriage when her spouse abruptly walks out on her. Initially a  very dependent figure on the verge of begging her spouse to return, Samantha strives to cope with  abandonment and loneliness.  She eventually emerges victorious as she finds a varied assortment of new friends and housemates, works odd jobs,  and finally develops a sense of self esteem.  We know she has come a long way when she can reject a conciliatory gesture from her spouse who has come full circle and wants to move back home. From that point on our heroine, Samantha, is able to move forward with her life and can materialize a new relationship.<br />Much of this book is written in easy to read simple short sentences  and phrases. We find ourselves either listening to conversations or  witnessing stream of consciousness thoughts. This writing style seems to be a hallmark of Bergs and is also used in  Talk before Sleep, a book about female friends helping a terminal cancer victim cope. There is not a lot happening in Berg's novels for those who like books  with action. While there are some really neat perceptive insights and observations scattered in the dialogue, there is  no real  introspection on Samanthas part regarding what actually went wrong  with her marriage or  even about whether she was displaced by another woman. Fortunately she does achieve enough understanding of  the failed relationship to realize and to faceup to the very bitter truth: Her spouses desire to reinstate their marriage is not really based on his true love for her.  It is due to the failure of his other relationship.<br />As with many other Oprah recommendations, the  book tells a satisfying tale of triumph over a difficult and trying life situation . Overall well written and worth the time.	2002-02-27
US	45397516	R2AC9C2HUF7X0J	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	She's Come Undone-Who Wouldn't?  A  Life's Journey	This is an account of a journey thorough life's many hurdles and victories. The book is interesting and very readable-a lot happens to Delores Price in these 460 some pages. None of Wally Lamb's narrative is tedious or boring. If anything, TOO much happens to Delores, much more than she herself can deal handle. This book`s initial chapters seem easy going with their reminiscences that include 1950s memorabilia and the description of a hilariously delicious  parochial school triumph over bullies that will make you laugh out loud.   Shortly thereafter, the book takes very somber turn and then continues in this serious tone to its ending. . At that point one can clearly  identifiy this as an Oprah selection, the story of an individual person dealing with the many  hurdles of a tumultuous and difficult life. <br />     The  crises presented to Delores over thirty some years include parental abandonment (deliberate  when her father moves in with a girlfriend and non intentional, when  mental illness overwhelms her mother ), rape (by a family \\"friend \\"), social isolation (unpopularity in high school and college),  lesbian seduction (by a sympathetic fellow  victim of social isolation), spousal infidelity, abortion (of a child she really wants) , divorce, and  infertility. Five people close to her die during these years. Delores fails to cope successfully  with the multitude of problems and dilemmas she faces. Instead she escapes into  compulsive behaviors including overeating and vicarious living through television . She  succumbs to obesity, depressive mental illness, and  carries out a serious suicide attempt. With all these crises one might suspect the novel  would be  in danger of degenerating into a sobby soap story. That it certainly does not become. Wally Lamb holds our interest in Delores. She is a  survivor. Delores faces some trials with which we can all identify. We want Delores to find happiness.  We root for her to win those  battles with depression and weight control.  The failure of her first marriage which was based on fantasy, deception, and compromise on her part is no big surprise. We want to see her find a good  solid relationship with the opposite sex.<br />     The novel will bring back memories of the 50',60s,70s and 80s with its allusions to familiar memorabilia  from those days for the older reader. Quotes from lyrics we all know from many familiar catchy classic tunes  are woven into the fabric of the narrative. Significantly the author never quotes another familiar and very  depressing tune from those times  about an individual faced with some terrible tribulations who sings \\" Is that all there is ? Is that really all there is to life?\\" A happy ending  and a generally upbeat and fighting attitude on the part of the heroine keep the events in this  novel from overwhelming and depressing us. Highly recommended as a reading experience.	2002-01-19
US	45397516	R2WP2Y9NIX7OH3	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Sparse prose with poetic elements	This is a most unusual book  which deals with a strange  topic and has a uniquely  bizarre cast of characters who are also rather  unlikable right from the start. The subject is euthanasia, now legal in Amsterdam. The book is a case study of how it could potentially be misused to  justify and get away with premeditated murder. The protagonists ruminate with pity on the deterioration of Molly, an amazing and unbelievable larger than life  heroine who  reputedly could still perform age defying cartwheels after 40 , work as a professional restaurant critic and not only bed down the rich and famous, but retain their life long undying affection. The four  main characters are all introduced to us  in the first chapter in a very interesting setting, as they attend the cremation of  Molly, now a deceased former lover they all share in common. <br />     It is quite  clear from the outset that circumstances make them rivals pitted against each other, even while two former lovers  see themselves as friends and allies . Jealousy motivates their interactions with other lovers milling about as well. Twice we are witness to really nasty verbal  interchanges. In subsequent chapters the  author  shows us interesting scenes of the composer  and the newspaper editor hard at  work. He reveals them both as  morally  flawed  when they fail to live up to the challenging choices they must make and instead choose very self centered options which will ultimately serve to plummet them to their destinies.<br />     As some readers have commented  this can be a  fast read and can be finished in just a few hours. The prose the author uses is a simple and flowing sentence structure. One can rapidly gain an understanding of the plot and grasp the gist of its few central characters. The work is however,  intended to be read much more slowly with appreciation for the thoughts in between the lines  which are lost if one  speeds through. There is a poetic aspect to McEwan's writing and one needs to slow down to appreciate it. One of the book's themes very much concerns jealous rivalry and possession. Early on the composer meditates about Molly and rues: \\" Now she was fine ash in an alabaster urn for George (Molly's husband) to keep on top of his wardrobe.\\" George who was always forced to share her will ultimately come out a winner. \\"All in all things hadn't turned out so badly on the former-lovers front.\\" Contemplating finally having a memorial service, George thinks to himself that \\"he alone would make the speech, and no one else. No former lovers exchanging glances.\\"<BR>     <BR>     I would agree with readers who do not think this novel is on par with some of the other Booker prize winners.  It is none the less a worth while read.	2002-01-07
US	45397516	R3AZVKE8JJ0JQU	0140275118	568723912	A Celibate Season	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Ominous Season for this Marriage	This books' entire narration  takes the form of correspondence between geographically separated spouses, a perspective both unusual and infrequently utilized . The format's success is evidenced by the fact that we come to care about these characters and the fate of their marriage. The Bridget Jones books showed  us how reading a series of diary entries could endear us  to their author.  84 Charring Cross Road, by Helene Hanff, an earlier book written in letter format kept the reader at a distance, failing  to achieve the depth of characterization and emotional involvement this  book  does achieve so successfully and so naturally.<br />     The  novel explores  the effects of a prolonged separation on a long term marriage . We watch the strain imposed by distance as we see the two main characters  gradually grow apart and lead separate individual lives. We regret the mistakes we watch them make . They  both long for their  infrequent rendezvous which when they do finally occur, only tend to split them further apart.  Not enough is done to bridge the gaps when they do meet. Each tryst  is anticipated with a big build up. Each meeting resolves with a very embittered and disappointed let down, subsequently generating  intense anger.  Intimacy suffers as each spouse fails to remain emotionally involved and supportive of  the geographically distant partner`s evolving and progressively unfamiliar life. One spouse  is exploring new territory as a career woman; the other as house husband and eventually small business owner. They seem uncaring and disinterested in each other's new ventures and personal growth, somehow expecting their spouses to remain constant while they themselves undergo changes. When Chas faxes his wife a note which hardly contains his excitement over the publication of his poem , his new creative and expressive  outlet, Jock (the wife) chooses to withhold comment in her next letter, completely ignoring his accomplishment . In fact not only does she fail to show the poem to her colleague, who coincidentally  happens  to be a renowned and published poet, but far worse,  her indifference extends to  an insensitive admission of  having lost it.  Chas is reduced to begging her for acknowledgment of his success.  Compliments, as he will soon discover, come naturally from the other women in his daily life. Both  partners learn to  turn to others in closer proximity for emotional comfort and approval as they drift further and further apart. When Chas builds a solarium in their house it  seems that he receives praise from every one-everyone except Joc. Her disapproval seems to largely stem from  his deliberate failure to involve her in any way in the major decision of renovating their house,. He erroneously chooses instead to surprise her.  The result will be to further effect  Joc's  feelings of alienation..  When she visits, she comes to  feel  like a stranger in her own home.  Their initial correspondence is full of longing for  reunion. Later they  realistically wonder about making correct choices and the readjustments required - asking the partner in advance for space when they anticipate living  together .<br />     We watch a twenty year marriage disintegrate despite the partners' best intentions of making the separation work.  In the forward Blanche Howard describes the authors' choice of  this unusual book title as originating in the Apostle Paul's Corinthians  book. She states Paul says a celibate season is good for a marriage. It would seem these two authors have set out to prove that in modern times this is not so- that  the season  must be a short one -if the marriage is to survive.	2002-01-02
US	45397516	R2I5DOTBDP1XBN	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	4	22	22	N	N	When life gives you lemons- make lemonade	Entertaining and light, this is a  fast moving  fun book to read. It tells the story of a sheltered southern lady who finds herself abruptly confronted with the harsh reality of her just deceased husband's mistress and son ,neither of whose existence had she ever suspected. Suddenly she must face the fallacy of her happy marriage of convenience and cope with the events that ensue. Her feisty nature and kindness win our hearts . Liberated by her new station in life, she discovers her hidden inner strength and her self reliance  grows by leaps and bounds. A heavy subject for anyone, Ross makes the incredible believable in this imaginative plot with an interesting assortment of characters. Reminiscent of  the final act of some plays, the complete cast of characters are brought together in the same room to interact in a grande finale scene.  The outcome will surprise you. It is highly recommended you join Miss Julia and her new found friends on some wild adventures resulting  from  a very seriously soul wrenching  life situation. I personally look forward to reading the sequel.	2001-12-14
US	45397516	R12EG3ZRXH5C2L	0316785261	658358380	The Fig Eater: A Novel	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Clever Concept-Disappointing Result	This book's cover along with its catchy title enticed me to buy and read it. The unusual  portrait on the front  and  the  intriguing  summary  on the back raised my expectations. The writer's source of  inspiration  was revealed to be a  historical  figure,  one of Freud's patients. By virtue of her association with this most famous psychiatrist, Dora's personal life  and problems were destined to become forever famous. I was curious to know more about her. Unfortunately, most  of the pages inside those book covers proved disappointing.  Starting this unique suspense novel with no further knowledge of the real Dora, I  finished it wondering why the misleading reference to Freud- who never makes an appearance in this novel- was so emphasized  (to sell the book?). Although I found the well researched descriptions of life in Vienna interesting and the characters unusual, the book lacked cohesiveness. The novel's plot development, as with many other mystery  stories,  let me  down in the usual manner.  Most  of the well developed details turned out ultimately to be false leads . Even  clues such as the unusual title and bizarre episodes including a posthumous corpse mutilation which seemed very significant  proved ultimately to have little  relevance in solving the \\" who done it \\" mystery. They together with so many other clues were trips down blind alleys...I had so very much wanted all those tantalizing puzzle tidbits the author threw out to finally fit together . I couldn't make that happen but unfortunately, neither could the author.  <BR>      This book contrasts the rational mystery solving approach of a very systematic and cerebral investigator  with the intuitive approach of  the detective's  wife, Erszebet. . As she plays amateur detective she proves to be a silent rival,  intent on outsmarting her spouse at his chosen profession . Erszebet's  thought processes  are dominated  by  many obsessive and despite their colorful origins-boring superstitions. These subsequently determine the course of her actions..  I will leave it to you to guess whether reason or superstition resolves this murder mystery. The ending seemed simplistic and highly disappointing after all the buildup. The poetic justice  achieved in the concluding act appeared to be just too neatly contrived. That final  fantasy  scene failed to even render the reader the usual satisfaction one feels when good triumphs over evil.  Questions were raised during that last episode which cast doubts as to whether  this even was a murder case after all!  (How can you gloat if it really was an accident? )  <BR>     This  book with its visually interesting graphic images has  great potential for adaptation  as a screenplay. It could make a colorful, interesting, and very watchable television mystery period piece. As great literature it falls far short.	2001-12-02
US	45397516	RMYXO2WKHZ1QY	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Country With as Many Ghosts as Living Humans	Don't start this book expecting the wartime romance and the gorgeous, exotic visual imagery which characterized the English Patient and contributed so much to the film version's success. This is a long hard look at the cold realities of civil war, protracted and brutal. Set in Ondaatje's native land of Sri Lanka, the images used to portray this tragedy are haunting, often gruesome. The saddest and most visually touching of these is the anguished pieta metaphor for familial love, self sacrifice, and martyrdom so graphically described as the book depicts its final victim of political atrocities,the only victim we feel we have come to know. There can be no winners in this conflict-only losers. All survivors here carry the ghosts of their deceased loved ones- and in living on risk that eventual fate themselves. Ondaatje is careful to avoid giving us much of any information regarding the conflict's background or political causes. Since we are ignorant, we do not take sides. It is his intent to show us the confusion and tragedy of civil war in general. The only information we have is the existence of 3 opposing factions, two guerilla groups fighting the existing government .<br /> The book's main protagonist is Anil who after her Western training and field experiences in forensic anthropology accepts an offer to return to her native homeland as an international human rights group's representative. Anil is determined to apply the scientific method to expose human rights abuses and subject their perpetrators to world opinion. As a returning expatriate, she makes it clear she choses not to be remembered as the local swim champion or as her physician father's daughter. Persistently goal directed, all of her attention instead is focused on discovering, scientifically proving, and revealing the actual circumstances involved in the death of a particular victim she discovers and nicknames &quot;Sailor&quot;. Anil's blind determination in seeking the truth at any cost extends to total disregard for not only her own safety but for the vulnerability of her local associates. The fast paced early chapters follow her quest to solve a mystery. The book slows down as Ondaatje shows us a country full of victims, in fact victims of the guerillas as well as of the government. The futility of Anil's unwavering very purposeful mission and persistent determination to publicize the true facts of Sailor's case becomes evident, making the reader question if there is really any point to solving the mystery of any one particular victim here. This obsessive determination makes one recall her earlier letter to film director,John Boorman, when she writes to inquire about the forensics involved in the final death scene of a fictional movie. Surely this is science carried to the absurd! Her eventual comprehension of the very real sacrifice  the accomplishment of this risky feat actually required will entail a very heavy burden, another ghost for Anil to carry. This ghost will be far heavier than Sailor.	2001-07-12
US	45397516	R2FZZT0PXGMPNU	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Will Waiting for True Love Really Bring True Happiness?	The reader spends the greater part of this book waiting and rooting for the love between Manna Wu and Lin to materialize and bring them happiness. Their circumstances prohibit consummation, allowing them only a prolonged platonic relationship. While implausible from today's American perspective where divorce and adultery come easy, the situation is understandable in the Communist Chinese setting. Tight control is exerted over personal lives with divorce very rarely permitted. The punishment for adultery for modern military colleagues threatens them with permanent geographic separation. When  longing for  fulfillment  is replaced with  discord  ensuing from blame and fault finding, deep disappointment overcomes both the reader and protagonists. It is at this very point that Ha Jin's profound sense of irony takes over. In the final act we see the stage set for yet another surprising entirely unexpected wait, one that promises with the book's last sentence to be another long one.  Ha Jin's irony extends to the broad changes he has witnessed in his native China during this time period as well. The book's early events occur during the Cultural Revolution. Books must be hidden to prevent destruction. The treasured contents of a locked jewelry box turn out to be just Chairman Mao pins, the only beautiful material collection possible.  In contrast modern day Chinese television programs today feature wealthy capitalistic entrepreneurs as paragons of a new society. Some have even been rewarded with Party Membership. Are we seeing a return to the Old China symbolized by the waiting faithful Shuyu with her bound feet after a disappointing flaunt with the modern woman? The author's plot and writing style are simple and easy to read on the surface. His hidden insights on society and human relationships make this a very worthwhile read.	2001-07-01
US	45397516	R3V2MKFE3TGMN9	0786868619	719432164	Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A True Story that Reads Like a Novel	This is a book about the effects of imprisonment on the human soul and the eventual triumph of resistance over oppression. Written in simple journalistic style, the narrative reads like a novel but unfortunately represents a harrowing true account of survival. Malika's life changes in one moment from that of a spoiled rich jet setting adolescent to that of a prisoner who must suffer not only deprival of  freedom and basic human comforts and necessities, but also contact with fellow family members imprisoned in isolated adjacent cells. The radical change in lifestyle is all the more stiking since it follows a description of her unique childhood experiences as a princess, an adopted daughter of the monarch  raised in the palace. The profound injustice of the situation is especially appalling when one considers their innocence in being held accountable for a political crime allegedly committed by the assassinated father, a General. The victims, his wife and children who range in ages 3 from to 20, are committed to live a life of deprivation and endless imprisonment by a despotic Morrocan monarch as punishment for this coup attempt. The book is a powerful way to experience loss of freedom vicariously and from a safe distance and to understand its immediate and long lasting effect on individuals. The title epitomizes the irrevocable loss of life experiences suffered by its victims who on leaving imprisonment  must begin life as  middle aged or young adults with a 20 year hiatus. The book is touching and deep. It makes one understand the importance of organizations like Amnesty International in at least attempting to make a difference.	2001-06-23
US	45397516	RHWQIGI9M3EMO	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Hidden Treasure!	I discovered this little gem by browsing the Amazon web site book review of Girl with the Pearl Earring. Susan Vreeland takes an unusual approach in tracing the life history of a fictitious artwork back through four centuries to its creation. In the process she gives us some marvelous glimpses into the lives of its varied owners. This perspective results in a very interesting and uniquely different read since the book is actually a volume of short stories connected only through ownership of the painting and the owners' interactions with that object. As we learn its history, the imminent threat of annihilation in the opening chapter  becomes all the more poignant to the reader. This fact  speaks to Susan Vreeland's skill as an author. We too have developed a relationship to the Girl in Hyacinth Blue, although we have never seen the painting. As with any volume of short stories there are stronger and weaker links. The whole is well worth the effort. For those who develop the yen to read more novels set in 17th century Holland, The Girl with the Pearl Earring ( Tracy Chevalier) and Tulip Fever(Deborah Moggash) make good companion books and a visit to the Metroplitan Art Museum's Vermeer exhibit this month is highly recommended.	2001-05-19
US	45397516	R15FXXK159L97S	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Historical fiction inspired by famous artwork	This is a simple but well written and interesting story inspired by an art reproduction hanging on the author's wall-or so says her web site about the origins of this book. No one today knows the identity of  the mysterious wide eyed and open mouthed girl on the bookcover who wears an exotic turban and pearl earring. She is one of the only 30 or so know works of Vermeer. Tracy Chevalier's imagination spins up a good yarn about who she might have been , taking us away to experience everyday life in 17th century Delft, Holland as lived by the ordinary working people as well as by the rich and famous-namely the artist, Vermeer,his patrons, and his friend and contemporary, Van Leeuwenhoek. One sees the religious chasm between Catholics and Protestants with the misconceptions furthered by segregation. One is amazed to learn that pigments are derived from griding raw materials like charred ivory and lapis lazuli in a costly and labor intensive process instead of just buying them from a paint merchant. Plague has no cure and claims its victims at any time. Class distinctions are followed and illness or injury is devastating in a society with no social welfare system in place-with only family members to take on the extra load. Tracy Chevalier has a good imagination. The book made me wonder who do I think this girl was?	2001-04-15
US	45397516	R3FL0C466V5GRL	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Man's Inhumanity to his fellow man	This is a stark and harrowing tale of survival under the worst of unimaginable circumstances. Unfortunaltely a true account of a halocaust survivor who will be forever traumatized by these experiences of his youth. An important book for all to read since it is sometimes hard to comprehend the extent of man's inhumaity to his fellow man. The author who endured these experiences in his adolescence describes totally losing his faith in God for allowing this to happen. One can certainly understand the response when one reads his terrible eye witness account of his father's cruel death just before liberation. One is struck by the tragic lost chances for escape: the disregarded warnings from a fellow villager's eyewitness account of his own  deportation and narrrow escape from death, the uncompleted warning knock on the window, and finally the lost chance for liberation for both father and son had they chosen the road not taken, and made a decision to remain in the camp hospital. I would strongly recommmend Viktor Frankel's book Man's Search for Meaning for readers of this book. The victim's  sufferings are similar. The author is an adult and a psychiatrist whose contrasting focus is in overcoming his awful circumstances and maintaining his human integrity and faith.	2001-03-11
US	45397516	R2WOTB4PNHUJWL	0375708278	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Diasater Strikes Thriving Metropolis- No Warning	This book reminds me of the Kevin Burns documentaries on PBS. The author has very meticulously researched the disaster inflicted by a major hurricane that struck a thriving metropolis at the turn of century (1900). There are a lot of details to get through in the first half of the book. These descriptions concern the completely ineffective forcasting but overconfident weather service which failed to issue any warnings whatsoever to the inhabitants of Galveston Island. The weather service was as completely taken by surprise as the ordinary inhabitant. This left all the general populus totally unprepared. Even as the storm was upon them,they went about ordinary business and trivial tasks, unaware of the amplifying danger  or the magnitude of the destruction to come. The 15 foot storm surge which entered and collapsed their homes and the floating bodies of their neighbors brought them to a  sobering reality.       The second half relates narratives from survivors in documentary fashion. Today a major earthquake striking a large urban area might cause such devastation. In developed countries we do not ever see anything like this because sequential satellite pictures now show us the life cycles of each hurricane as it crosses the Atlantic from Africa and prompt coastal  evacuations. Reliving the Galveston hurricane which turned the city into a woodpile and took thousands of lives prematurely is a worthwhile experience. It is a fitting subject for a disaster film -only unfortunatly- morbidly true.	2001-02-25
US	45397516	R163OST97F81W6	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Travel to exotic places-visit with interesting people	This is unique literary accomplishment. The author's lyrical narrative flows as a stream of consciousness revelation. Her sentence structure has poetic license. Time is fluid. We are offered intriguing glimpses of her characters who describe themselves at one point as characters in a play. With her chapters as scenes, Ms. Roy draws us deeper and deeper into her book with the plot she spins. Her characters are interesting and the locale is exotic. They are Untouchables and Touchables, third world Communists, inbred Syrian Christians- Indians with modern attitudes that carry the influences of a colonial past, Marxism, and American culture impinging on the third world  in a set compete with native fauna and flora to add to the fascination. I especially enjoyed her droll humor-the irony she sees in small things and everyday situations. Overall however,the book's focus is several tragedies that are interconnected and their lifelong effects on the characters. As she says: &quot;Life can change in a moment.&quot; There is a lot of depth and meaning-take your time with these 321 pages...	2001-02-04
