US	45402116	R33DSSENKUPJ5H	0767914104	776717532	The Automatic Millionaire: A Powerful One-Step Plan to Live and Finish Rich	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Who wants to be a millionaire?	I saw David Bach on Oprah and I thought everything he said made perfect sense.  I bought his book a couple of weeks later and what he writes is simple and  can be easily applied to your own life.  The book is written so that even somone like myself, who knows very little about mutual funds, IRAs, etc., can understand what you need to so that you can begin saving for your future.  Everything is touched on from savings, home ownership and even making your charitable donations through automatic deduction.  I'm gonna buy a few more copies of this book for Christmas presents for members of my family.  I think this book can benefit anyone especially those of us who are under 40 and will not be able to count on Social Security as a viable form of income in our golden years.  I recommend this book and am beginning to apply Bach's techniques in my own life!	2004-09-12
US	45402116	R26BUQPREZCOSD	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	5	6	15	N	N	An interesting look at a baffling case!	I haven't read another book about Jack the Ripper but I have to admit that the story of the Ripper has always been intriguing.  So, once Patricia Cornwell wrote her book, declaring \\"case closed\\" and after seeing her on Book Notes on C-Span, I decided to give the book a try.  To be honest, I've only read one of her other books, one of the popular novels about a crime investigator named Kate Scarpetta called \\"The Body Farm\\".  I didn't particularly enjoy that book and after reading it, I wondered why she was such a popular writer.  This book, however, was good and I enjoyed the thorough and time consuming research and interest she took in this case.  The suspect she is convinced that commited these crimes is an artist named Walter Sickert, a semi-famous painter from England who was known to go missing for days and weeks at a time and had a pension for painting prostitutes on beds being approached by men, the women positioned like the victims of the Ripper.  This is, of course, not the only point Cornwell makes to support her theory that Sickert was the man who went on a killing spree in England in the late 1800s.  She studied letters the Ripper sent to the police, the watermarks on the these letters, had the DNA analyzed that was on the back of the stamps, and on and on.  Cornwell seemed to become obsessed with proving that Walter Sickert was the Ripper and after reading her book, I am pretty much convinced that he was too.  Since the DNA results were not positively conclusive and because Sickert was cremated and there are no means to compare his DNA to that found on the back of the stamps,  I can't say I believe 100%.  But Cornwell's very persuasive and her efforts in solving this hundred year old unsolved case are commendable and her theories are well thought out and quite plausible.  The one problem I had with the book was how the book ended (which was my main problem with \\"The Body Farm\\" too---which I felt came to a blunt and unsatisfying ending).  Cornwell ends the book after the death of Sickert's second wife, with a particularly wicked story that showed what an evil man Sickert was, regardless of him being the Ripper or not.  I would like to have known more about his time with his third wife, how he died, etc., but Cornwell chose to end her telling of this account at this point in Sickert's life.  Overall, though, I think Patricia Cornwell did a great job on this unsolved mystery and I think that maybe nonfiction-crime cases may be her true calling.  She certainly has the background for investigating cases like the Ripper and her interest and approach was much more compelling than the fiction she has written prior to this book.  I recommend this to anyone who enjoys true crime and especially to those people interested in the Ripper case.  For the rest of us (I'm not particularly a fan of true crime) I still recommend this book.  It is interesting and makes for great conversation with friends and co-workers.ds the book after the death of Sickert's second wife, with a particularly wicked story that showed what an evil man Sickert was, regardless of him being the Ripper or not.  I would like to have known more about his time with his third wife, how he died, etc., but Cornwell chose to end her telling of this account at this point in Sickert's life.  Overall, though, I think Patricia Cornwell did a great job on this unsolved mystery and I think that maybe nonfiction-crime cases may be her true calling.  She certainly has the background for investigating cases like the Ripper and her interest and approach was much more compelling than the fiction she has written prior to this book.   I recommend this to anyone who enjoys true crime and especially to those people interested in the Ripper case.  For the rest of us (I'm not particularly a fan of true crime) I still recommend this book.  It is interesting and makes for great conversation with friends and co-workers.	2004-08-12
US	45402116	RIZ12I8C5DS2W	1560255021	528901183	Dreaming War: Blood for Oil and the Cheney-Bush Junta (Nation Books)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A much needed voice in America!!!	I am pleased that there is someone like Gore Vidal in the world speaking his mind, no matter the reaction to his thoughts and words. In a time when a person can be branded unpatriotic for simply criticizing the actions of our government or , God forbid, our &quot;leader&quot; in the Oval Office, it is necessary to have a voice willing to challenge the overbearing strong arm of the conservative right. Whether or not you agree with Gore Vidal's essays, his words provoke thought and conversation that needs to be sparked during a time when little is being done to question our government official's actions or their motives. Mr. Vidal revealed our country's willingness to use our military might for our own gain (no matter the cost of lives in our &quot;oppositon's&quot; populations) in his last book, &quot;Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated&quot;. Now, he returns with harsh but truthful words for Dubya and his group of right wing bullies because few others are brave enough to speak up for fear of being hated or called &quot;Anti-American&quot;. Michael Moore and Al Franken are two others who come to mind, who (through humor), speak their minds and give liberals and minorities a voice that has, for four years, been silenced through a biased media. Vidal not only criticizes Bush and his Republican cronies but also aims at Democrats and liberals who seem all to eager to allow the right wing's army to bulldoze over them. But he reserves most of his venom for George W. Bush, who has done nothing but destroy American's relationship with pretty much every nation on the face of the globe, excluding the ones like Britain, who we pretty much like to keep under our thumb. I agree with Mr. Vidal that George W. Bush will be viewed by historians as one of the worst Presidents in our nation's history, if not THE worst. People who like to chant &quot;We're Number One&quot;, waving their flags like the good patriotic cheerleader's Dubya and his Republican svengali's have programmed them to be, need to take a little time and consider some of Gore Vidal's questions about our eagerness to invade other countries without the least bit of hesitation or consideration of the American people's opinion of these actions. I look forward to each book of essays Vidal produces and hope the citizens of this great country listen up and realize it is time to call our government into question. Give this book a try---agree or disagree---it will give you plenty to discuss with friends, family and co-workers!i's have programmed them to be, need to take a little time and consider some of Gore Vidal's questions about our eagerness to invade other countries without the least bit of hesitation or consideration of the American people's opinion of these actions. I look forward to each book of essays Vidal produces and hope the citizens of this great country listen up and realize it is time to call our government into question. Give this book a try---agree or disagree---it will give you plenty to discuss with friends, family and co-workers!	2004-08-03
US	45402116	R1A3DG5Z7EQM6D	0767914767	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada a Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A fun read!	Would you work for the boss from hell for a year if it meant you would get whatever job you wanted?  That is the dilemma faced by young wannabe writer, Andrea (or Ahn-dre-ah, as the evil Miranda calls her).  Andrea,  fresh out of college and looking for a way to break into writing in a respectable forum, ends up taking the first job that calls her back, the trendy and snobby fashion magazine, Runway.  Right off the bat, everyone lets her know that this is the job \\"a million girls would die for\\".  But just as quickly, she learns that there is a price to pay for such a tempting shortcut on the career ladder.<br />  Miranda Priestly inspires fear in everyone at the magazine but not nearly as much as is suffered by her senior and junior assistant, the position Andrea takes.  Instead of writing, Andrea must get Miranda's breakfast (often throwing breakfast after breakfast away, for fear it is too cool for the oft late Miranda).  She must get lattes, get laundry, hunt down a copy of the latest Harry Potter book for Miranda's bratty twin daughters, and perform hundreds of other meanial tasks to satisfy the whims of her overbearing and selfish boss.  An actress could have a good deal of fun with a role like Miranda,<br />should this book ever be made into a film.  I read \\"The Nanny Diaries\\" last year and Mrs. X, the villian in that story was pretty bad but there were reasons and definite unhappiness behind her attitude.  Miranda is just evil and enjoys making those below her suffer.<br />  Andrea struggles with pleasing her boss and balancing what little time she has with her boyfriend, parents,and her friend, Lily, who is going down a dangerous path with alcohol and an<br />endless parade of sexual encounters.  All of Andrea's personal<br />relationships begin to suffer as her time is quickly eaten up by the unrealistic demands of her sadistic boss.<br />  I'm not into all the fashion labels but I did find this book interesting.  It is an easy read and great for a summer book.  One of my problems with the story is how Weisberger portrays the gay men at the magazine.  They all seem to be effeminate, flamboyant cliches---for once it would be nice to see a gay man who isn't chasing anything in pants for a quick sexual romp and who doesn't swish around like a diva on the runway.  The ending is a little too convienent but overall I enjoy the book.  Luckily, I've always had decent bosses and supervisors but anyone who has had a boss that brought your blood to boiling point will more than likely sympathize with the long suffering Andrea.  This book is not as good as \\"The Nanny Diaries\\", a book of similiar material,  but is still a good read and worth a go.summer book.  One of my problems with the story is how Weisberger portrays the gay men at the magazine.  They all seem to be effeminate, flamboyant cliches---for once it would be nice to see a gay man who isn't chasing anything in pants for a quick sexual romp and who doesn't swish around like a diva on the runway.  The ending is a little too convienent but overall I enjoy the book.  Luckily, I've always had decent bosses and supervisors but anyone who has had a boss that brought your blood to boiling point will more than likely sympathize with the long suffering Andrea.  This book is not as good as \\"The Nanny Diaries\\", a book of similiar material,  but is still a good read and worth a go.	2004-07-11
US	45402116	R3P71DAKU3JTG2	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A book for all book lovers!	I recently picked up Sara Nelson's book to read while I was working a garage sale.  Before the sale was finished I was well into her book, enjoying a look into the mind of another bibiophile.  Sara Nelson, a book critic, decided to take a year and read a book a week, documenting the process.  Anyone who loves reading can find many similarities between themselves and the author.  There is something comforting about having stacks of books around you----knowing full well that an escapist voyage is only pages away.  Sara Nelson opens up her life and offers her opinions on the books she chooses to read and those she chooses to put down after they fail to hold her interest.<br />From going through periods of being unable to read to the miracle of finding a new author, who's work you can't get enough, Ms. Nelson finds the common cord among all of those who find sanctuary in the pages of a book.<br />I enjoyed this intriguing little memoir and look forward to reading some of the books the author included in her lists.  I recommend this to anyone who loves books!	2004-05-24
US	45402116	R2ZT7OS3QMKZSK	1931561028	187658169	Letters to Montgomery Clift	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good debut!	A friend of mine recently gave me this book.  The story sounded interesting and I decided to crack it open and give it a try.  I was pleasantly surprised by this debut novel written by author Noel Alumit.  It begins with Bong Bong, a young Filipino boy who is sent away from his home by his mother during the vicious Marcos regime.  She promises her son that one day she and his father will join him as he is sent away to live with his Aunt Yuna in California.  Once there, life for the young man becomes worse, as we learn that Yuna is an alcoholic, who resents taking care of the young boy and begins verbally and physically abusing him.  As a source of comfort, the young boy begins to write to handsome Hollywood 50's idol, Montgomery Clift.  Clift becomes his guardian angel and a confidant.  Over time, however, the letters lead way to mental illness as the young man tries to deal with his blossoming sexual orientation and the fact that he may never see his parents again.  He begins a path of self abuse and hurting those that care for him.  Although the ending is a little bit too convienent, the story is good overall and worth reading.  I recommend it.	2004-05-20
US	45402116	R14VHB4HUCVEWX	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bridget's back!	I read the first book a couple of years ago and really loved Bridget, the lovely and neurotic singleton that all of us root for.  And before the second film comes out, I wanted to read the second book and get my own take on it before the film makers produce their version.  While &quot;Edge of Reason&quot; is not as good as the first book, it still holds a lot of humor and charm for the reader.  While Bridget has her man, there are lots of bumps in the road...naked chinese boy in Mark's bed, being stuck in a Thai prison and her Mum's new friend, Wellington, met while she and Una made a trip to Africa---to name a few.  You can always count on Bridget to get in some pretty bizarre but funny predicaments.  A good and easy read.  Make time for it and you are guaranteed some laughs!	2004-05-01
US	45402116	R1HM9GRC3RVG9K	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Big Serving of Grace Brothers and more!	This is a fun book that any fan of the British series, &quot;Are You Being Served?&quot; will enjoy.  Full of interesting facts about the actors, producers and directors and bits of trivia, this companion book will be more than enough for any fan of Mr Humphries or the hilarious, cat loving, Mrs. Slocombe.  There are summaries of all of the episodes, that also include the second series, &quot;Grace and Favour&quot; and the movie that follows the gang as the go on vacation together.  It even includes the episodes of the Australian version, which lasted for two seasons.  A well rounded book for a long lasting British sitcom and a must have for any fan of the series!	2004-04-29
US	45402116	R157BA20K5QBEH	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Dude, Keep up the Good Work!!!!!	Thank God for people like Michael Moore (and Al Franken and Gore Vidal).  Mr. Moore continually questions our government with relevant issues that the majority of the American public want addressed.  While I didn't think this book was as good as \\"Stupid White Men\\", I still applaud the author for not backing down and making opinions known that may be considered unpopular or unpatriotic.  During these times when our civil liberties seem to be fading and when constitutional amendments are being suggested for a basic right that should be available to everyone (including gay people), the citizens of the U. S. need to hold Dubya's feet to the fire and make him answer for the mess he's made for our beloved country.  From the travesty in Iraq, to denying rights to gay people, to his tax cuts that do more for the wealthy than anyone else---this president needs to be held accountable for his actions.  As long as authors and activists like Michael Moore are around, you can be sure that Bush the Sequel will be watched and reported on at every stop!  Keep those books coming, Mr. Moore!!!	2004-03-13
US	45402116	R1O9V2VK4NI40D	0786808551	857095333	Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Artemis returns!!!	Artemis Fowl is back and this time he is teamed up with his one-time nemesis, Captain Holly Short, a fairy that he kidnapped in a previous plot to steal fairy gold.  Now he must work along side Capt. Short and her superior Julious Root in order to stop a scheme undergound that will turn the People's world upside down.  With Butler, his Eurasian human weapon bodyguard, Artemis and the two LEP officers must find out who is holding Artemis Sr for ransom and stop a coup led by the malicious Opal Koboi, a wicked sprite who is determined to rule the people and then the world.  All the entertaining characters are back including Foaly, the slightly arrogant cenataur and Mulch Diggums, a theiving dwarf that comes to the aid, reluctantly, of the four major characters.  With an underground war brewing, the race to save Artemis Sr. and even a storyline involving stolen Academy awards, \\"Artemis Fowl:  The Artic Incident\\" succeeds as great entertainment and is a terrific read.  I think this book was a good deal more adventurous than the first, which I also enjoyed.  Eoin Colfer is crafting a series of books that are wildly entertaining and give the readers a great array of characters to enjoy. I look forward to the next book and recommend The Artic Incident to readers of all ages.	2003-09-01
US	45402116	R185DB1JIWT26G	0060529539	720814364	Following Foo: (the electronic adventures of The Chestnut Man)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Follow Foo.....you'll be glad you did!	I just finished reading \\"Following Foo:  The Electronic Adventures of the Chestnut Man\\" and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  Having just read another book called \\"Gay Dads:  A Celebration of Fatherhood\\", I felt that these two works perfectly compliment each other.  \\"Gay Dads\\" gave 21 examples of gay men who wanted to have children and the ways they expanded their families.  This story is an extension of that theme, showing the unexpected problems that can crop up in any birth.  There is no guarantee, no matter how much you fantasize about the birth of child, that the stork will have a smooth landing and bring a baby that is perfectly formed, completely healthy and on time.  B. D. Wong and his partner, Richie, learn this first hand when their twins, carried by a surrogate, come very early and riddled with complications.  Wong, an actor in television programs such as \\"Oz\\" and \\"Law and Order: SVU\\", is obviously a creative man that uses email as a way to reach out to friends an family to update them on the progress of the baby (one twin, sadly dies shortly after birth).  He soon receives responses from many people, giving him words of encouragement and showing a great deal of love for the tiny little boy trying his hardest to stay in this world with his two stressed out and loving dads.  This book reveals what a serious undertaking parenting is and how dedicated and trying it can be.  I'm not a parent but I certainly felt for these two men as they struggled with the constant health issues and feared for the life of their little tyke.  There are lots of interesting responses and some are from familiar names:  John Lithgow, Margaret Cho and Michelle Kwan, to name a few.  But it is little Jackson that is the star in these pages and you find yourself drawn into his world, breaking out the pom poms and cheering \\"Go, Jackson GO!\\"  A great book for any parent (gay or straight)....actually a good read for anyone!  Give it a try.  You'll not be disappointed.	2003-07-27
US	45402116	R1QRR4QHLC8RHI	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Order up some Phoenix....its bloody brilliant!!!!	Okay...we've waited forever and after reading book 5, I've got to admit it was well worth the wait.  I was worried a bit, concerned that maybe Ms. Rowling would not be able to continue the magic that she had conjured up in the first four books.  My worries were put to rest upon starting chapter one.  I am continually amazed at this author's creativity---her imagination is incredible, lucky for all of her fans.  In \\"Phoenix\\", she shows us a teenage Harry, moody and testy with his friends, going through a great deal of anxiety like most kids his age.  He, however, has much more to worry about than the average kid....namely Lord Voldemorte.  There are lots of new things happenings---a new Defense of Dark Arts teacher, lots of politics at the Ministry of Magic, a love interest---enough to keep any Harry Potter fan happy.  Rowling is allowing the readers to grow up with Harry and experience his gradual maturing into young adulthood.  My only regret is that I'm finished with this book and now have to wait for book 6.  This is an incredible read and I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys reading----I couldn't put it down!	2003-07-21
US	45402116	R1GOFEQOA6UB7V	1585422312	117703354	Gay Dads: A Celebration of Fatherhood	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Daddy to the second power!	This book is an interesting collection of personal stories that explores the view of fatherhood through a gay man's perspective.  David Strah, the author, looks at twenty five different situations, including his own, that offer a wide scope of options, revealing the relationship that gay men have with their children, their community and families, as well as the gay community.  Through these men, we are shown the many ways that gay men can become fathers---domestic adoption, surrogacy, international adoption, foster parenting and co-parenting---all important means to these men, who wanted to share their life with children.  The one thing that surprised me most, I think, is the common thread of the gay community basically separating themselves from these gay fathers. However, the most important aspect I derived from this book, is that a family is composed of loving parents, who want children and lavish them with affection, stability and a good home.  It doesn't matter that its two fathers---just that they are loved and wanted. This is an interesting read with a positive attitude toward gay men's ability for parenthood and worth reading if you are gay or straight, single or married, parent or not.  Give it a try.	2003-07-08
US	45402116	R3T0AEE20WUENR	0786868120	700557880	Wigfield: The Can-Do Town That Just May Not	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Detour to Wigfield....	Want to take a trip to a bizzare little town full of weirdos, tons of strip clubs and lots of used tires?  Make plans to visit Wigfield...a quarter mile stretch of land that came into being because of an unneccessary dam that is now in danger of being destroyed by the government.  This horrible act will flood the \\"town\\", which sprang up in the river bed and force the tenants of this loveable slum to move from their beloved homes/shanties.  You'll meet people like Cinammon, a stripper, who uses hush puppies in her routine in a very unusual way;  Julian Childs, an \\"confirmed\\" bachelor and theater owner, who uses rabbits in all his productions;  Mae Ella Padgett, who in her 40s, proudly claims to be the oldest person in Wigfield--a claim disputed by Dottie Fore, who makes her claim as the elder; and many more.  Guided along by Russell Stokes, the author, who stumbles upon this intriguing drama, desperate to find a subject that could help him start the 50,000 words required for the book he must write to meet his publishing deal with Hyperion publishers.  Amy Sedaris, Paul Dinello and Stephen Colbert, of Comedy Central's brilliant cult series, \\"Strangers With Candy\\", are totally insane and that's what makes the book so much fun.  Its dark, bizarre and a hilarious read that makes you laugh out loud.  Complete with pictures of the wacky trio as the townsfolk, taken by Todd Oldman.  If you love \\"Strangers With Candy\\", you'll want this book.  If you want a good laugh this summer, you'll want it as well.  PS---buy the new \\"Strangers With Candy:  Season One\\" dvd too----So FUNNY!	2003-06-22
US	45402116	R9ADGXN1KZPZV	0439404371	708788000	The Thief Lord (BOOK SENSE BOOK OF THE YEAR CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (AWARDS))	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A "Prosper"ous read!	Cornelia Funke's book, \\"The Thief Lord\\", is a good read and sure to entertain kids of all ages.  While it doesn't captivate like the Harry Potter series or Artemis Fowl, it has a interesting story and likeable characters,nonetheless.  The story starts with a detective accepting a job of locating 2 runaway boys for a couple called the Hartliebs.  Neither the man or the woman are very friendly but Victor decides to help them with their problem anyway.  Soon Victor meets a band of kids living in a deserted movie theater led by a mysterious youth called \\"The Thief Lord\\".  Among this group of kids are Prosper and Bo, the two children he has been contracted to find.  From this point on there are many twists and turns---a secret \\"item\\" that the Thief Lord is asked to steal, a magical merry-go-round from long ago, boat trips on cold nights in scary canals...and much more!  After reading this book, I am interesting in reading more of Cornelia Funke's other work.  Worth reading!	2003-06-08
US	45402116	R2ZR3MZJUNU2VF	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Diaries worth reading....	I wasn't sure if I would like this book, but I was addicted to it immediately.  This glimpse into the world of child care among the extremely wealthy was a complete page turner.  Nanny starts out with the X family and things, though hectic, are not as bad as you might expect.  As things progress in the family,however, she realizes what a tangled web she has been snared in.  While she is trying to juggle the work in her classes and develop a relationship with a handsome Harvard student she dubs H. H. (Harvard Hottie), she runs extra errands for Mrs. X and ends up doing twice or three times the work she signed on for.  While she has grown to love the young charge she is responsible for, she is constantly belittled by the prudish, superficial Mrs. X and completely invisible and unimportant to the absent father.  When marital relations between her employers begin to break down, Nanny is trapped in the middle, worried about keeping her job and how the raising of Grayson, the little boy, is gonna affect him later in life.  She sees good in the child but sees that his childhood is anything but trouble free.  While family and H. H. encourage her to give up this grueling job, she wants to stay on for the sake of her little guy, whom she has nicknamed &quot;Grover&quot;.  I thoroughly enjoyed this novel and realized one thing---Nanny's aren't paid enough! An easy and fun read---give it a try!	2003-05-18
US	45402116	R16WV3RDRQNIW6	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny and fantastic Fowl!	A couple of friends of mine recommended this book to me over a year ago.  They described it as \\"DieHard with Fairies\\" and I have to admit I was intrigued so I bought a copy.  I just got around to reading it and I hate that I waiting as long as I did.  This book was a riot.  While Harry Potter, which this series is often compared to, is good hearted and an all around hero, Artemis Fowl is a devilishly clever young man intent on continuing his family's legacy of being fabulously wealthy through less-than-honorable means.  With the help of his huge body guard, simply known as Butler, young Fowl has created a plan to randsome money from those elusive folk known as the Fairies.  Once he captures one of their people, a fiesty young female named Holly Short, the fun begins.  The \\"people\\" begin their plans to retrive the captive and Artemis sets his plans in motion.  Between Artemis and the Fairies there are enough gadgets to fill up an entire Mission Impossible movie!  Eoin Colfer gives the reader an interesting glimpse into the underworld that houses gnomes, trolls and faires and makes a villianish young man likeable.  He is an interesting writer and well worth following.  If you are biding your time until \\"The Order of the Phoenix\\" comes out, give this book a try.  Though Harry and Artemis are quite different, they make great reading for both old and young alike.	2003-05-18
US	45402116	R2WJVMYSMVI1BS	156025405X	513224163	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated	Books	5	77	82	N	Y	A vital Vidal read....	I saw Gore Vidal talking about this book a while back and realized a good deal of what he is saying mirrored my own thoughts about our country and its government, in particular.  I'd wager a lot of Americans feel the same way but we seem to have lost our voice and our willingness to question our government.  A recent interview I saw with Studs Terkel on Phil Donhue's show commented directly on that very subject.  He said he felt that until a major voice comes out and addresses an issue, we are prone to sit quietly.  Vidal's voice needs to be heard and wouldn't have been if American publishers had any thing to say about it.  After this collection of essays became a best seller in Italy, he was then approached about an American publication and voila!---we can read what some might call an unpatriotic and ungrateful voice about America.  A fundamental right we have as Americans is the privilege to question our government's decisions yet we seem to sit around quietly and compliantly while our presidents act aggressively toward other nations, deeming our country the international policeman for the world community.  These opinions are called unpatriotic especially after the events of 9-11 but there is nothing unpatriotic about what Mr. Vidal is saying.  The people who have blinders on and think that we, these United States of America, are never wrong should read this book.  We, like any other nation, have flaws.  It is time to look at those flaws, address the issues and hold our government responsible for its actions.  This government represents the people and we should have our say.  Unfortunately, with good ole Dubya and his cowboy mentality, we have four years that should inspire us to speak out against injustice.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who cares about the direction our nation is taking.	2002-08-25
US	45402116	R3Q4P88JWM5IXT	0452281903	549396571	A Man Named Dave: A Story of Triumph and Forgiveness	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Courageous Story	I read both \\"A Child Called It\\" and \\"The Lost Boy\\" last year and was stunned at the horror a child can go through and survive. The first two books in this trilogy about David Pelzer's life recount the extreme abuse he went through in his early years and follow him from his rescue to bouts in several foster homes. With \\"A Man Named Dave: A Story of Triumph and Forgiveness\\", Mr Pelzer allows us into the young adult years in his life as he marries and becomes a father. With honesty, he reveals the flaws in himself, his trouble with self esteem yet comes away as a person of great strength and intregity to the reader. With his mind set on success and being a better person, he moved forward in his life, not always without hardship and at the expensive of his first marriage, but eventually arrived at a place where he could heal the wounds from his old life and focus on his future. This book ends with hope and, utlimately, shows the determination of the human spirit. Through his own personal tragedy, Mr. Pelzer teaches us that we can overcome even the greatest and most fearful of circumstances---but we must believe in ourselves, work hard and be dedicated to making a better life. This trilogy of work can be looked at as several things: a set of autobiographies, a case study of child abuse and its effects, and self help. The abuse in the first two is hard to stomach, but if he could survive it as a small child, reading it can be no worse. Read these books and see if you don't come away realizing how important life is.	2002-06-12
US	45402116	R5YLQPRM38T97	0345449002	656582842	The New Essential Guide to Characters (Star Wars)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A universe of characters!	I, like everyone else, look forward to the new Star Wars film, \\"Episode II:  Attack of the Clones\\".  This book contains the characters in the new movie, previous movies and the books and comic books.  I don't read the books or comic books but it is interesting to read about the characters and their parts in the trilogies.  The illustrations are nice and the descriptions and history of each character is full and informative.  While I'm not a die hard fan, I wanted the book because it helps keep up with the many characters in the Star Wars universe.  This updated book will be a must, however, for those die hard fans who want the inside info on their favorite characters.  I recommend this book to fans of all degrees.	2002-05-16
US	45402116	RJMNGZ4YJVMAC	0446530077	765138691	Find Me	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Find Rosie's book	I just finished Rosie O'Donnell's biography and I have to admit it was an interesting journey.  This is not the typical biography---starting with \\"I was born in such and such town\\" and so on.  Instead Rosie gives us a glimpse of the kind of person she is through a story that is weaved into references of her mother's death and its powerful affect on her.  The tragic rape and pregnancy of a 14 yr old that she encounters on the internet and becomes \\"obsessed\\" with helping is the story that unfolds and contains a lot of twists and turns.  Rosie reveals a good deal of herself, flaws and all, through this little biography that leaves you wishing she would talk more.  In trying to help this \\"victim\\" she realizes that she too needs help and guidance from friends and family.  Rosie is an interesting person that I hate to see leave the world of television.  Hopefully, we can look forward to more books from this talented lady.	2002-04-30
US	45402116	R38ZO8635KDWEV	0060932740	62774064	There's a Hair in My Dirt! A Worm's Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A &quot;Dirty&quot; treat!	Gary Larson is a genuis.  He has a wicked, bizarre and incredible sense of humor that is apparent in every page of this delightful book.  The pictures are a perfect compliment to the story and full of little gags that make you look over them again and again to make sure you haven't missed anything.  Sneaking in educational facts along with the hilarity is just an extra bonus for anyone who buys this book---and you should buy it.  I can't believe I didn't get it earlier.  If you have children in your life, if you don't---get this book.  You are guaranteed your money's worth in laugher and more!	2002-04-17
US	45402116	R2YKY985HFQ1VC	006251623X	594916080	Is It a Choice? - 2nd edition: Answers to 300 of the Most Frequently Asked Questions About Gays and Lesbian People	Books	5	10	12	N	N	An excellent Q & A book!	This book is an excellent resource book for anyone who feels like they might be gay, knows someone who is gay or are just curious about the homosexual lifestyle.  Written in a simple style that anyone can understand, Mr. Marcus confronts the many questions that people have about homosexuality as well as dispelling myths that surround alternative lifestyles.  If you have a question, more than likely, you'll find it in this book.  Divided into sections the books discusses such topics as gays in the military, sexual practice of homosexuals, dating, marriage and more than many people may not understand about this sexual orientation.  If you have a loved one that is gay, if you are confused about your own orientation, or if you are just curious, this book will give you answers to many of the questions you have.  A good resource for parents, teachers, etc., that deal with teenagers wondering about their sexuality.	2002-04-08
US	45402116	R1GWIEMHKHDXUH	0060964049	98800983	Tales of the City (Tales of the City Series, V. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Welcome to 28 Barbary Lane!	I recently read this book and enjoyed it a good deal.  Armisted Maupin fills his serial-soap opera with loveable characters that you are more than happy to see again and again.  From Mary Ann Singleton, the innocent and trusting romantic, to the mysterious but kind Ms. Madrigal, we are introduced to an array of people from the late 70s, living in San Franisco. There are enough twists and plot turns to put most soap operas to shame!  Pick up a copy and you won't be sorry.  You'll just be ready to buy the next installment!	2002-03-10
US	45402116	R1F9NYHW24CPAW	0688162878	681633216	Way to Go, Smith!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Funny book !	I picked this book up at a booksale and really enjoyed it.  Bob Smith is a very funny guy that talks about his failed relationship of 10 yrs, his relationship with his family and how he's beginning to date again and getting on with his life.  I think his feelings on a relationship ending, on his mother, etc, are very universal and not limited to gay people.  I think gay and straight alike can enjoy this very funny book.  Find a copy and try not to crack a smile!	2002-03-10
US	45402116	R3HURU6U684FJI	0375500332	929279308	Aretha: From These Roots	Books	1	1	1	N	N	No respect for this book!	I LOVE Aretha Franklin.  When you think of soul music, if you don't think of her, you'd have to be crazy.  I was hoping that this book would give us insight into a career that has spanned the last four decades but I was totally disappointed.  The entire book is spotty at best.  It is poorly written with too much hidden from the readers and has to be one of the worst autobiographies I've ever read.  You would think a life as interesting as the &quot;Queen of Soul&quot; would be enough to fill two volumes but if this is it, I think we better stick to her singing.  Forget this lemon, console yourself with one of her cds---you're guaranteed to like that!	2002-03-10
US	45402116	R1S0DZHIK0JMR5	0425169987	220690799	Dont Block the Blessings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a blessing to read!	Patty LaBelle is amazing.  She has an incredible voice, a career full of ups and downs, and can bring down the house in concert.  This book is just another triumph for a lady who deserves all the accolades she receives.  With absolute honesty, she reveals so much about her life--from sexual abuse to the fear of dying of cancer like her sisters and good friend--you feel that Ms. LaBelle has given you all that she can.  Throughout her life, she has faced a good deal of challenges but has emerged with a positive attitude about life and can still entertain with the best of them.  I have seen her in concert 3 times and she blew me away each time.  This book does the same.  After reading the dismal biography of Aretha Franklin (From the Roots), I realized what a gem this is.  If you wanna read a really good book about an incredible entertainer, give this one a go.  Its worth every penny!	2002-03-10
US	45402116	R11YN7F6AW0BB1	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An interesting read	I was first drawn to this book by its interesting cover...the stark gray of the town and the vivid blue dress worn by a young woman, standing out like a sore thumb.  I read the inside jacket of the book and thought it sounded good so I bought the book.  I wasn't disappointed.  Though I do agree with some of the other reviewers that it could be a bit confusing at times with the change of narrators, I have to say that over all it was very good and very detailed.  Sheri Holman must have studied a good deal about medicine and the poor of this time period because her account is thorough and realistic.  The characters are a strange hodgepodge of people that may not be likeable but are most definitely intriguing.  I enjoyed this book and hope others will take the time to read it.  Ms. Holman is a talent author and I'm interested in reading her other book as well.	2002-03-02
US	45402116	R33P29RCGOB4WJ	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry's prisoner...	Okay, I admit it.  I'm hopelessly hooked on Harry Potter.  I read the first and second books in this series and thought it would be hard to get much better.  Well, guess again!  J. K. Rowling keeps rolling out that incredible imagination of hers and takes us, head long, into Harry's most adventurous story yet.  Once you start one of these books, you might as well put away what ever it was you were doing before, turn off the television and settle in---because you are set for a ride that needs your uninvited attention.  I'm not even gonna give you any details of the story.  Just buy this book and I guarantee you'll be satisfied!	2002-02-24
US	45402116	R3PL81QF8IM5JR	0140157654	273591516	Before Night Falls: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loved the movie and LOVED the book!	I saw the movie first and decided I'd read the book that it was based on.  I'm so glad I did.  The book, of course, goes into much more detail and is very rich in its description.  The author gives us a vivid account of what it was like growing up under the Castro regime as a gay man.  It is sad to see how such a talented writer was treated, all because of his sexual orientation.  I want to read more of Arenas' books as this one has only whet my appetite for his works.  I recommend this book highly.  Read it and then enjoy the movie too.  Javier Bardem's performance is incredible (and he received an Oscar nomination for it).	2002-02-24
US	45402116	R3103SGBWHZX3N	1558745157	289981450	The Lost Boy: A Foster Child's Search for the Love of a Family	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A child looking for love	This book continues with young Dave Pelzer after being rescued from the horrible abuse at the hands of his mother, and follows him through his troubled teenage years.  We see a young man trying to figure out where he fits in, looking for the love of a family as he is juggled about in the foster care system.  It is amazing that he didn't fall into absolute despair or turn into a out-of-control teenager after the horror he had been through and then the unstable environment of foster care.  Though he did hit some rough patches, with the love of a good foster family he prevailed.  Dave Pelzer's continuing journey (this book is second in a trilogy) is an important book that shows us how terrible child abuse is, the problems in the insitution of foster care, and the human ability to bounce back and put negativity behind you.  Dave Pelzer is an example of how successful any of us can be.  I highly recommend this book.	2002-02-23
US	45402116	RJOMDAW665NGI	0807281948	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Jonesing for Harry.....	I was hooked on the first book after a few pages.  I just wanted to know what all the fuss was about.  Now, I'm hooked again.  J. K. Rowling takes us back to the wonderful world of Hogwarts (via a flying car) and allows us more adventure with young Mr. Potter.  The imagination and creativity of the author are ever present and as addictive as the first book in this series.  I have the feeling I'm gonna be a Harry Potter junkie.  This book, as well as the first, if excellent reading for both children and adults---don't let anyone tell you otherwise!  After establishing the story in the first book, Rowling can now plunge us into more storylines with action.  If you enjoy top of the line entertainment, if you love to read, if you just enjoy having fun---this book is for you.  Pick a comfortable seat and enjoy the ride.	2002-02-23
US	45402116	R1Z184K0Q1PU56	0345440137	997999410	I'm the One That I Want	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Honest story of Margaret's life	As a companion to the hilarious dvd of the same title, this book delves a little deeper than the stand up routine and allows the reader, in greater detail, to see the problems that Margaret Cho has overcome.  From her childhood, where she was viewed as an outsider to her adult life, dealing with failed relationships, alcohol/drug abuse and racism, Ms. Cho is completely candid.  She lets us know about painful events in her life, such as being raped, simply and truthfully.  Near the end of the book, she deals with the failure of her sitcom with ABC and the problem with her weight, a concern for everyone, it seemed, but her.  At the end, you see a young woman that has become comfortable with who she is and unafraid for anyone to know it.  If you are a Margaret Cho fan, you'll want to pick this book up.  Ifs not the laugh-a-minute riot that her live concert is, but it is well worth the read.	2002-02-21
US	45402116	R1CAEPGBXLC4F4	0671709763	618788746	Dame Edna Everage : My Gorgeous Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Read this book, possums!	I've been a fan of Dame Edna's for years and I have to say that this faux autobiography is one of the funniest books I have ever read.  Starting from her humble beginnings (with mauve hair even then) we see our lovely Edna blossom into womanhood, marriage and motherhood---though she rarely has time to properly look after the kids because of her hectic and famous life.  As an advisor to the rich, famous and royal (a spin doctor, in her words, to the Queen), Edna becomes a superstar in her own right---struggling with her troublesome childhood friend, Madge Allsop, who Edna lets us know, is a burden a good deal of the time!  Edna deals with many dramas----her eccentric children, her husband with his desperate prostrate problem and the trials of being so easily recognizable to the general public.  If you wanna read a book with a great deal of laughs, try to find a copy of this book.  You won't be disappointed.	2002-02-20
US	45402116	R290GSFBOJ0TSA	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A great book!	I read \\"A Suitable Boy\\" when it first came out back in 1993 and I have been recommending it to friends and avid readers ever since. Many people would find reading a 1,400 page book a daunting task, but in this case it is pure pleasure. I, like a friend of mine, began to ration out the final chapters dreading to see the story come to an end. I loved the characters (especially Lata's mother) and the love story that is basically the heart of this novel. By the time I finished this book, I felt like these characters were friends that I knew and, I must admit, felt a great deal of sorrow to have to let them go. Seth's language is rich and transports you to 1950s India, giving you the sights and smells of the places in which he is placing you as the reader. I heard about the time the book was released that Merchant/Ivory (\\"A Room With a View\\") had bought the film rights to this book. I'd love to see them adapt this work for the big screen. In the meantime, I think I'll just re-read it. Pick up this book....you won't look back!	2002-02-17
US	45402116	R159DA88DXWLU0	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A story of survival...	Dave Pelzer's account of the abuse he suffered at the hands of his mother are horrific.  From the ages of 4-12, he tells of some of the most bone chilling abuse that can be afflicted upon another human being, much less an innocent child.  Reading this book, you begin to see the amazing spirit and resillance that a human being can have in order to survive.  As a boy, Dave Pelzer set his mind on making it through his ordeal and through a nightmarish existence---the only life he knew of.  I was touched by this story and can't help but be impressed by Mr. Pelzer, who came from such an abusive situation and became an incredible success and an inspiration to others.  Hopefully, through stories like his, people will be encouraged to intercede in the lives of abused children and rescue them before its too late.  This is a good book and well worth your time.  Don't miss it.	2002-02-17
US	45402116	R3VLEY11JO4DKH	0786866179	725713503	The Naked Chef	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Naked Talent...	Jamie Oliver is a talented chef and what you might call a pop star of the Food Network. Charming and good looking with a sense of humor, he brings his MTVish type of cooking to all ages.  By stripping down his recipes and giving us the basics and easy intructions, even a novice can begin to cook.  This cookbook, the first of two, is full of good recipes and colorful pictures of the prepared dishes.  It is a perfect companion to his series and I look forward to more cookbooks from him.  Buy a copy and turn on the stove!	2002-02-17
US	45402116	R3GORL8EWYV8QC	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A magical book	I kept hearing all the news stories about this book and its hero, Harry Potter.  My sister, who has kids, asked if I had read it or knew anything about it but I didn't have a clue.  Thankfully, I went out and picked up a copy of this wonderful book that is appealing to both children and adults.  Harry is a thoughtful kid that has been stuck, through some unfortunate events, with his hateful aunt and uncle as well as his incredibly spoiled cousin.  When mysterious letters begin to arrive addressed to Harry, a new life begins to unfold for the young man that he had no idea existed.  With characters that are immediately likeable, such as the bookish Hermione Granger and the towering but gentle Hagrid, J. K. Rowling takes you into the world of wizardry and witchcraft at the intriguing school known as Hogwarts.  I was unable to stop reading this book, turning page after page as Rowling's delightful imagination lead me through this trip of a young man's journey into who he really is.  For anyone who has ever felt like the misfit or an oddball, Harry is a character that can be easily related to.  And for those of us who just simply enjoy really good entertainment, this is the book.  This story is a perfect book to interest kids in reading.  I recommend it highly.	2002-02-07
US	45402116	R38ZQCXZBXH7DF	0810914344	854576946	Rita Hayworth: A Photographic Retrospective	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Goddess of Glamor	This book is a beautiful retrospective of the lovely Hayworth in B &amp; W photography as well as a few in color. While books about Marilyn Monroe seem to pop up every other week, a book like this about the &quot;Love Goddess of the 40s&quot; is a rare jewel and greatly appreciated. Rita was an interesting star whose life off screen was as complicated, in most cases, as the roles she played on screen. She was &quot;vogue&quot; before Madonna and her best known film, &quot;Gilda&quot; is a testament to old Hollywood glamor. The book follows Rita from her ascent as a B movie starlet to the woman who was at the top of her game at Columbia Pictures. It also allows us to see her as an older woman, still quite lovely, and follows onward to the shocking pictures of her shown the world over as a confused woman plaqued by Alzheimers disease. If you are a fan of Rita Hayworth or of the great black and white stills of the golden age of Hollywood, this book is worth the money. And Madonna was right, Rita indeed &quot;gave good face&quot;!	2001-09-03
