US	45490382	RHTF8SWXADDVI	0809123789	893239206	Inviting the Mystic, Supporting the Prophet: An Introduction to Spiritual Direction	Books	5	20	21	N	N	There Are A Lot Of Riches Packed Into This Little Book.	While this book was written to help the ordinary Christian become more of a spiritual companion to those seeking to grow in the spiritual life, it is full of wisdom for all who seek to get closer to the Lord. It focuses on underlying attitudes and key areas of focus rather than on techniques, but it also includes techniques (of prayer and discernment), and suggests some excellent criteria of good direction and prayer.  The title indicates the authors' belief that true prayer will lead the mystic to social involvement and true Christian social action will lead the prophet to deeper prayer.  The writers complement each other's approaches and together have a lot of experience giving spiritual direction (in the broad sense that includes all of life) and training others to do so.  Their approach is contemporary, incarnational, healthy, theologically correct and unitive of many dichotomies.  I highly recommend it.	2002-02-20
US	45490382	R4V4ZRD5RME7	082641124X	606398501	Word into Silence	Books	5	38	39	N	N	Pivotal And Classic Work On Christian Mantra Prayer	John Main(1926-1982), a Benedictine monk and founder of the World Community For Christian Meditation, advocates Christian mantra prayer.  In this very short book he outlines the theological foundations and implications for such prayer, as well as giving twelve \\"steps\\" for Christian meditation, which are more in the way of supplementary comments.  While influenced by Hindu sources, Main bases his teaching and method on the fourth century John Cassian accounts of the desert ascetics, and on the fourteenth century Cloud of Unknowing.  The method is similar to Centering Prayer popularized by the Trappists at about the same time Main first published this work.  He argues persuasively about the Christian roots of this prayer and its theological solidity.  He points out its usefulness for letting go in poverty of spirit of all things including the ego in order to find a truer and less superficial self that is united with God and the whole of creation.  The book is easily read and might profitably and prayerfully be re-read.	2002-02-07
US	45490382	R3J0X700ZDIGPP	0835808009	947308064	Dimensions of Prayer: Cultivating a Relationship With God	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Good Solid Basic Advice On Prayer For All Christians	Writing out of a Quaker background, the late Douglas Steere has offered excellent advice on prayer.  Ostensibly for the beginner, this newly revised edition will be welcome and useful to all Christians.  Steere has solid theology and is obviously a master of his material.  He draws on a wide variety of authors and traditions and presents it all in a unified and simple way, easy to read and lucidly clear.  He deals with the widest variety of topics: what prayer is, why we pray, the God-centered nature of prayer, meditation, oral prayer, intercessory prayer, congregational prayer, distractions, autosuggestion, habit and routine, to name but a few, and manages to cast new light and insight on each.  A less fortunate feature of his style is his constant citing of other authors, some quotations magnificent finds, some barely apposite.  It makes the text read at times like a pile of index cards.  He may do it to undergird his own insights with external authority, but he himself speaks with sufficient obvious authority and reads best when he writes simply and without citations what is in his own heart and mind.	2002-01-31
US	45490382	R3TEJ73432MFWC	1580510086	322164016	A 12-Step Approach to the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Excellent Eleventh Step Program For Christians In Recovery	It has often been remarked that there seems to be some correspondence between the principles of the Twelve Steps of AA and parts of the Spiritual Exercises of St. Ignatius of Loyola.  Few if any books or articles have sought to explicitate that correspondence between the two with the thoroughness of this text of Harbaugh.  As a Jesuit and Certified Chemical Dependency Counselor, he is well acquainted and involved in both guiding people through the Spiritual Exercises and counseling those in recovery.  His treatment uncovers whatever relationship exists between the spiritual dynamics of the two texts.  Sometimes the relationships are profound and enlightening, occasionally they are merely superficial and accommodating.  For the student of the Exercises these latter instances may seem forced, for the person in recovery it will be an acceptable use of  familiar and comfortable language.  The Exercises are a series of meditations that in its most concentrated form take about 30 full days, but for a person with limited time available they can be adapted to a 12 month period, which is what Harbaugh does.  He suggests the 52 meditations be taken one week at a time (though one is free to give more or less time to each), and wisely urges that they be done with the help of a spiritual director, sponsor or others.  The book is a guide for prayer, but even a quick read could be informative and profitable.  The Exercises are quintessentially Christian, and so Harbough's text is meant for use by Christians in recovery.  It goes beyond the principles of AA, but enlightens the Christian content of the Exercises with AA language, principles and parallels to the fullest extent possible.  While one need not be in recovery to use this book for prayer, it is a fine way for someone in recovery to work the Eleventh Step.	2002-01-31
US	45490382	R6GDCGBW6GR8X	0385494343	997278725	The Gift of Peace: Personal Reflections	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Last Testament Of An Inspiring Man	I have found myself lately recommending this slim volume to a wide variety of people.  Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, the late Archbishop of Chicago, completed this work just 13 days before he died of pancreatic cancer.  It may be, therefore, particularly good for cancer patients or people facing death.   He tells us simply and honestly of the trials of his last years and days - a false accusation from a former seminarian, his illness, his ministry to fellow cancer patients, his final acceptance of death.  It is rare than anyone has graced so many of us as much as he has by the manner of his dying.  I was privileged to see Cardinal Bernadin a few months before his death.  I was impressed even from a distance with his simplicity, humility, acceptance and peace.  He was clearly a man who was (the Irish would say) \\"thinning.\\"  He seemed transparent and shining with the inner light of someone who had been tried in the fires and had had burned away anything that was dross, a person who had stood naked before the whole world and had stood the test of it.  That is the kind of man the book presents.  It is a simple, honest and straight-forward self-revelation of someone more concerned even in his final hours about others than about himself.  I recommend it highly.	2002-01-31
US	45490382	R3NHOM4NEGTXX	0786880708	795743807	Wherever You Go, There You Are: Mindfulness Meditation in Everyday Life	Books	5	82	85	N	N	Concentrated Wisdom - A Definite Keeper	This has long been a best seller and justifiably so.  Kabat-Zinn works clinically with people who are stressed and his earlier book, Full Catastrophe Living, was written for people who are almost pathologically stressed, to bring them the beneficial effects of meditation.  The present book is written for average people on the street, who may not need so urgently the therapeutic effects of meditation, but in the belief that we can all of us use a healthy dose of it.  It is written with no religious strings attached, and even avoiding the word \\"spiritual,\\" and yet it has the ability to open up the spiritual realm for us, no matter what we wish to call it.  It is an introduction for the beginner and a source of good advice for the practitioner of meditation.  It's written in bite-sized chapters, in clear, easy and very readable prose.  It is a delight to read.  The book's three parts explore the why and how of meditation and its many applications in daily life.  Many chapters conclude with suggestions for reflection or meditation.  It is concentrated wisdom that deserves much rereading and a permanent place on your library shelf.	2002-01-24
US	45490382	R3C9062JF3UDFF	0664249736	46865909	Prayer	Books	5	44	44	N	N	A Small But Precious Jewel Of Christian Prayer	Abhishiktananda is the name adopted by the Benedictine priest Henri le Saux (1910-1973), who spend the last 25 years of his life in India practicing Christian prayer but with wisdom learned from Hinduism.  His works have been out of print for a long while, but many - including this one -- have recently been made available again by MedioMedia press.  And a valuable contribution that has been.  One of the great religious events of the last century has been the religious dialogue between East and West, and Abhishiktananda has contributed greatly to that conversation.  This book in particular is valuable because of the guidance it gives to individuals in learning and practicing prayer against the general background of the constant contemplation of God's presence.  It will invite favorable comparison with Brother Lawrence.  But it is especially valuable because of  the insights the author has gleaned from the East and his own personal experience in Eastern prayer.  He is particularly good in his opening pages about a common Christian, even a common human calling to silent prayer and contemplation.  He very briefly reviews toward the end of the book various common forms of prayer offering his own brief but valuable reflections on each, and concludes with a special endorsement of namajapa, the prayer of the Name, the closest Christian equivalent of which is the Jesus prayer of Eastern Orthodoxy.  The brevity of the book makes it concentrated and precious volume, which I highly recommend.	2002-01-22
US	45490382	R3CP4LOTKMYUEV	0802116922	482494437	On the Water	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Lyric Novel of Athleticism, Wonderful	This is a debut novel and a very fine one at that.  Hans Maarten van den Brink has written a lyric story of athleticism and the body, of a love of water and rowing, of how a young man grows to be a friend, a teammate, a champion.  The author is observant of nature, the body and humanity, he knows the challenge and joy of sports and can communicate that experience as far as it can be done even to the couch potato.  He has a sure choice for words and felicitous phrasing (the translator, Paul Vincent, deserves much credit and praise as well).  I look forward to reading more of him	2001-08-12
US	45490382	R2YDQMXSXZN9WH	0684823853	350241759	That Hideous Strength	Books	4	18	24	N	N	Too Many Words, Clive, Too Many Words	After reading or rereading the first two excellent books in C. S. Lewis's Space Trilogy-- Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra -- it is almost impossible to keep from reading this book, its conclusion.  Unfortunately, while the first two grow better with each rereading, this one grows more tedious.  Mind you if you have never read it, do so.  I am just suggesting that it is the weakest link.  Lewis needs no praise and will not be diminished by any adverse criticism from me.  He is intelligent, insightful, psychologically acute, imaginative, clever, urban, witty and literate, and everyone knows it.  It is just that in this book he does it all a bit too much.  This is the story of an impeding battle between the forces of good and evil.  But what a cast of characters: archangelic beings, macrobes, a contraceptive subterranean lunar race, the Fisher King who is also Pendragon, a seeress of the House of Tudor, Merlin, magic out of Numinor the true West, a fortune inherited from an Indian Christian mystic, a Scottish skeptic, a menagerie of animals, earthly avatars of heavenly spirits, an institute the figurative and literal Head of which is a decapitated or rather decorporated mad scientist through which unearthly powers speak, and Withers the dithering deputy director who is so vague and obscurantist that one wonders how people in the evil institute (with the ironic acronymic name of NICE) even manage to put on their pants in the morning never mind engineer the extinction of the whole human race and the conquest of the entire universe.  Add to all these of course the merely human elements of brutal police, ambitious and pretentious academics, narrow minded politicians and scientists.  Lewis seems to want to pull it all together in one volume; he has everything here except moderation.  And when the denouement comes, less than a handful of the evil are really in on it all, and almost none of the good forces are really needed.  It is all very anticlimactic.  There is aclever description of the politics of a small college, and a good recognition scene where Pendragon discovers himself to Merlin, and an initialllly enjoying citation of the maundering style of Withers (which CS seems to have so delighted in that he persisted in presenting it all through the text until it eventually becomes vastly annoying).  Lots of insights too on every one of his favorite topics and pointed criticism on all his pet peeves, but do they all really need to be gathered here together?  As in Perelandra this is an explicitly and essentially Christian book, possibly making the work of less appeal to readers who do not share that faith.  And his attitude to the feminine, perhaps acceptable in his own day, is just too patronizing today.  As I say, do read it, but it is by far the weakest of the three books.	2001-07-17
US	45490382	R1VK45DPJQ5E7N	0312098286	706351835	The I Ching or Book of Changes: A Guide to Life's Turning Points	Books	5	190	196	N	N	Beautiful, Authentic, Literate, Clear, Simple, Easy To Use	The I Ching, an oracle that has guided many Chinese for the last three thousand years, is a challenge to the Western mind.  We understand things through causes, but the I Ching operates apparently in an acausal or synchronistic way causing Westerners who consult it to be frankly often astonished at the uncanny coincidence between the question asked and the answer received.  C G Jung was himself vastly impressed with it and wrote the foreword to Princeton's Bollingen Series edition of the work.  But that edition, like so many others, is so complex, confusing and unintelligible that I have often thought the oracle worked by means of the very confusion, by the presentation of an amorphous surface upon which our subconscious mind projects the intuited answer - much like divination through tea leaves, wax droppings, clouds, swirled wine, smoke, mirrors, crystal balls or the innards of slaughtered sheep.  Walker's translation or paraphrase or simplification, call it what you will, belies that.  Gone is the obscurity and illiteracy; and still one may find the same uncanny results.  The Western mind will have to ponder on to solve the secret.  In Walker's work the essential meaning of the 64 hexagrams and of each of their 6 possible \\"changing lines\\" is clearly presented in less than two short pages per hexagram.  A three-page introduction, a page and a half of instructions, and a chart of the hexagrams (conveniently repeated at the end) complete the book in the simplest fashion possible.  There are no complex explanations or theorizing, no history, no multiplication of commentaries, and no cheapening adaptations.  Production values are high; the color and quality of the cover and the paper stock are excellent.  There may be hundreds of versions of this book, but of the several dozen I have seen, this is the best text for a combination of beauty, fluency, clarity, fidelity to the original, and facility of use.	2001-07-17
US	45490382	R1D679J5KBBNDN	0684823829	530210334	Perelandra	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Still Enjoyable And Insightful After Many Reads	This is the second volume of Lewis's space trilogy (begun in Out Of The Silent Planet and ending with That Hideous Strength) and an excellent one it is.  People talk about the books being readable independently, but you'll get more out of them if you read them in their proper order.  Lewis has a particular knack for imagining and describing how things would look to a person who had never seen them before, what in effect a \\"pure experience\\" would be like the moment when the sensation is trying to become perception, and a knack as well for reaching between soul and spirit to describe the inner subtle workings of human nature at a level most of us are normally unaware of until someone like Lewis describes them to us.  The result makes for enjoyable reading, particularly in the context of a trip to another planet.  Here Dr. Ransom is sent off by heavenly powers to Venus where another earthman, possessed of some diabolic force, is intent on bringing about the downfall of that race.  Ransom is there to stop it.  The story of the Original Sin is retold with imaginative variety, and the book has a particularly and undeniably Christian bent which may well affect the reaction of non-Christian readers.  Lewis does a lot of philosophizing in this text, but not as much as in the final volume, That Hideous Strength, which is for that reason and others the weakest of the three.  But here he is still at the height of his powers and in control of them.	2001-07-17
US	45490382	RO7NKS3RIT8IS	1893361136	566413077	Waking Up: A Week Inside a Zen Monastery (Week Inside¹Series)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Inside Scoop On Life In A Zen Monastery	Maguire has written this book, one of his many, as a preparation, introduction and guide principally for a rather select group of people: those who would like to do some very serious practice in a Zen monastery.  While each Zen monastery or center is unique and will have its own variations on the theme, he has chosen Zen Mountain Monastery in Mt. Tremper, New York, not because it is typical, but because he knows it well, having been a student there since 1994, and because its training system is broad enough so that all kinds of training might be encountered there that will be met with at other places.  The system, the Eight Gates, consists of: Zen sitting, the teacher-student relationship, liturgy, moral and ethical teachings, art practice, physical exercise, academic study, and work.  Maguire is a professional story teller and has good descriptive abilities, so that his description of the physical grounds makes one feel present on the property.  He sketches briefly the kinds of people who come there and the sort of things that people have personally experienced there.  He goes into minute detail about the order of the day and some of the eight elements of training, something that will be appreciated by those who are looking forward to actually going to a center, but a tad too detailed for the general reader.  The book includes a directory of  Zen places in the US and Canada, recommended further reading, a few commonly used Zen chants, and a glossary of terms.  So if you are thinking about some serious practice at a Zen center or are generally curious, it is a very informative volume to look into.	2001-07-01
US	45490382	R1VDDRTHTJW6S0	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Classic Well Worth Rereading	This is one of C. S. Lewis's science fiction trilogy composed of Out of the Silent Plant, Perelandra and That Hideous Strength.  While they do not have to be read in that order, I suggest it for your greater appreciation.  H. G. Wells, Arthur Clarke and their like have swayed us to the belief that extraterrestrials who are more intelligent than we are also evil and might wish us ill.  Lewis calls our attention to the fact that we are the only race we know to be fallen and the reverse might be the truth: that the aliens  may be the moral ones and we the criminals.  Some of this insight inspired the movie 2001 even though it was based on a very pessimistic story by Clarke.  Lewis puts his considerable imagination and his outstanding writing ability at the service of a theological, philosophical and humanistic view of the cosmos rare if not unique in the field of sci-fi, and for those reasons these books deserve more than one visit.  My most recent -- possibly my fourth - reading was as enjoyable as my first.  These books are easily understood by teens and can still give mature thinkers much food for thought.  This first volume introduces the philologist Dr. Ransom, and describes his kidnapping to another world, his encounter with other species, his learning the language (Lewis has as much fun with language as J.R.R. Tolkien), and his coming to see reality through new eyes.  While science has made some of his descriptions a tad dated, his insight survives the passage of years well.  The final additions come as a bit anticlimactic; one has the sense he is answering the objections of some readers and throwing in a few details he ought to have included in the first place.  But if you have bought into his vision they can entertain somewhat like the out-takes shown during the final credits of a film or TV show.	2001-06-28
US	45490382	R2FMHTN73G87GC	0393050424	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Wonderful Social Satire And Spiritual Journey	Suri's first novel begins as social satire.  As a man lies dying at their doorstep, life goes on for the inhabitants of one building in Mumbai (Bombay) whose human frailties and foibles are deliciously portrayed: the social pretensions and petty rivalry of the Asranis and the Pathaks, the religious conflict and aspirations of Mr. Jalal the skeptical Muslim turned Hindu prophet, the widowed Mr. Taneja longing for his lost wife, the mixed-religion Romeo and Juliet romance of Kavita and Salim, supported by a host of minor and very well sketched characters all imperfect in their own peculiar and humorous fashion.  The reader delights and is a tad admonished by their too explicit humanity.  The dying or perhaps already dead man recalls his life and goes up gradually to heaven as his spirit ascends the stairs of the tenement past its inhabitants and past the ever higher levels of existence they represent.  The image of the Indian cinema constantly arises, a traditional (though obviously a recent tradition) Hindu image of the unreality of this world, one used frequently by Ramana Maharshi.  Not surprisingly toward the end of the book (pp. 256-257) a Hindu guru speaks explicitly of the levels through which the soul must ascend to perfection, beginning with the level of the rule of the jungle, pleasure, desire, the promise of wealth, the callings of the flesh, the pool of selfish gratification.  It is an entrancing read, very well written.  One looks forward to future novels from the author.  The use of many Indian terms and allusions unfamiliar to most readers has the great advantage of drawing us into the world of the story by presuming our familiarity with it, but a slight knowledge of Hindu mythology would help the average reader, and maybe even a glossary of Indian terms.	2001-06-14
US	45490382	R3H87RR2VIMNIR	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Some Very Good Points and Some Serious Ambiguities	In this best selling book Wilkinson urges some important spiritual lessons.  It's not selfish to pray for God's blessings for oneself, especially when you leave the nature of the blessing up to God.  And there may be some things that God is waiting for us to ask for before granting.  We might very well ask for the gift of being called to do more for God than we are doing, and to be more ambitious in trying to serve.  We should live in dependence on God and ask for deliverance from personal harm and from hurting others.  All of these are good things and the prayer of Jabez is one way of packaging them.<br />Except that Jabez may have meant something else.  Since Jabez lived in a time prior to prophetic notions of social justice or the concept of an afterlife, his idea of blessing is more materialistic than any gospel or post-gospel understanding.  His expansion of territory is literally a land grab at the expense of his neighbor's lives, which he felt he was taking with the approval of God, something so close to today's West Bank settlements that it ought to cause us some ambivalence to use this prayer at all.  The hand of God that Jabez sought was more likely to have been as a military power with which to overthrow and kill his neighbor.  And since it would have been many centuries after Jabez that the concept of an evil Satan developed, that can hardly be the evil he asks to be delivered from here, although it is what Wilkinson seems to think is the entire focus of this last request.  It may be rather from the magical implication of his name that he asks deliverance, something in which moderns would put little stock.<br />There is much ambiguity in this book as one passes from a request for a blessing that is left up to God to a specific request that the individual decides on some basis or other must be God's will (like Trinidad, a DC-10, or the delay of a flight that will inconvenience hundreds of other people).  Wilkinson should say more on how to distinguish between God's will and our own desires that we too easy mistake for God's.  He also touched too briefly on the notion that a person's business is the way in which one serves God and so an expansion of business becomes a growth in divine service; more guidance needs to be provided Christians who mistake corporate greed for doing God's will and earthly success as a sign of God's good pleasure, and who may possibly have picked up this book to find a way somehow to serve both God and mammon.  For all the talk of Satan in the book, there is little talk of other evils we need to be delivered from, like the religious self-righteousness that convinces us that our wants are God's will and our understanding God's revelation, and also the greed that enriches the wealthy Christian while impoverishing the rest of the world.  The book is a best seller, probably because there are so many who are searching for spirituality and for God.  If it has helped some find what they seek, well and good; but I suggest that if you are looking for a daily prayer to say, try the suggestion of Jesus that begins \\"Our Father ...\\"tween God's will and our own desires that we too easy mistake for God's.  He also touched too briefly on the notion that a person's business is the way in which one serves God and so an expansion of business becomes a growth in divine service; more guidance needs to be provided Christians who mistake corporate greed for doing God's will and earthly success as a sign of God's good pleasure, and who may possibly have picked up this book to find a way somehow to serve both God and mammon.  For all the talk of Satan in the book, there is little talk of other evils we need to be delivered from, like the religious self-righteousness that convinces us that our wants are God's will and our understanding God's revelation, and also the greed that enriches the wealthy Christian while impoverishing the rest of the world.  The book is a best seller, probably because there are so many who are searching for spirituality and for God.  If it has helped some find what they seek, well and good; but I suggest that if you are looking for a daily prayer to say, try the suggestion of Jesus that begins \\"Our Father ...\\"	2001-06-04
US	45490382	R8V4W57JFG0X2	2704500827	57469550	Souvenirs d'Arunâchala: Récit d'un ermite chrétien en terre hindoue (L'Homme du 8o jour) (French Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating Account Of A Hindu-Christian Monk At Arunachala	Abhishiktananda (Bliss of the Anointed One) is the adopted name of Henri Le Saux (1910-1973), a Belgian Benedictine monk who chose to live the life of a Hindu holy man and became a pioneer of Christian-Hindu interfaith dialog.  Arunachala (red mountain) is the sacred mountain of southern India where Ramana Maharshi lived for the last fifty years of his life.  This is an account of the time when Abhishiktananda lived in caves and elsewhere at the mountain, of his encounter with Ramana, Ramana's disciples and other ascetics, of the mountain, its temples and their rituals.   It is a fascinating story.  It has in fact been recently republished under the title of The Secret of Arunachala by Medio Media who deserve much credit for providing recent English translations of Abhishiktananda's works, which have been long out of print.	2001-06-02
US	45490382	R1W1Z9Q2BR6MIS	0385413718	786390458	Taking Flight: A Book of Story Meditations	Books	5	35	35	N	N	The Best of de Mello�s Story Collections	Of all the collections of meditation and wisdom stories that de Mello has put together I think that this one is the best (followed closely by Song of the Bird, which is equal in quality but has fewer stories).  This book contains over 250 stories arranged by topic: Prayer, Awareness, Religion, Grace, The Saints, The Self, Love and Truth.  These are  real stories not just the didactic aphorisms and sayings (beginning with &quot;The Master said&quot;) that are more typical of de Mello's One Minute Wisdom, One Minute Nonsense and More One Minute Nonsense.  And the stories are more to some spiritual point, in my judgment, while the companion book, The Heart of the Enlightened, tends to have many that are merely humorous.  So while he has a lot of good sayings and stories, were you to pick just one of those books, for my tastes it would be this one.	2001-06-02
US	45490382	R1ZHRB49HHISWI	0802132626	217824302	Vedanta: Heart of Hinduism	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Excellent And Useful Survey Of The Main Elements of Vedanta	Torwesten has put together a survey of Vedanta along more or less historical lines.  The first half of the book treats the teachings of the Upanishads and the Bhagavad Gita; the second half looks at Shankara's non-dualism, the swing back to theism in Ramanuja, and then the more recent developments of Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, Aurobindo, and Ramana Maharshi.  This is a survey rather than strictly speaking an introduction; in my opinion it would be most useful to someone who has already had at least some exposure the material covered.  The author's grasp and organization of the complex material is excellent, and his writing clear and at times witty.  He does much more than general summarizing; he is a critical writer, he gets deeply into the difficulties of the material and conflicting points of view, points out the shades of meaning terms go through in the course of history, as well as the apparent and real contradictions, shortcomings and problems of various positions and doctrines.  He illustrates constantly by comparing and contrasting Vedanta with western mystics and philosophers presumed to be better known to the reader.  The final chapter is an essay on the relationship of Vedanta to western philosophy and theology and on their potential future as complementary and corrective of each other.  This is a clear and concise summary of Vedanta in general, its history and main positions.  It is useful to anyone who wants to know more about Hinduism, or to anyone interested in using eastern though to deepen and develop their own spiritual lives.	2001-05-24
US	45490382	R27W30540735XT	0866839518	680894982	Practice of Spiritual Direction, The	Books	5	75	78	N	N	Probably The Best Available Guide For Spiritual Directors	By spiritual direction here is meant that central and often avoided part of pastoral counseling that deals not so much with people's many problems and struggles as with their experience of and personal relationship to God.  It is a specialized and all important area that is easy to side step in normal counseling because of the relative ease with which other problems can be addressed and/or because of an inbuilt fear on everyone's part of a relationship with the almighty.  This eminently practical book points out in great detail the paths by which one may help another to foster this all-important relationship which is more basic and prior to resolving other symptomatic difficulties in the individual's life. It describes as well the distractions, pitfalls, avoidances and other problems that beset director and directee along the way.  This is probably the best text available in this area.  Its strength comes from the massive experience of the authors in doing, teaching, and supervising spiritual direction, in their theological, spiritual and psychotherapeutic background, and in their ability to organize and present the material clearly and cogently.  It is a must in the library of any spiritual director, could profitably be read by anyone seeking direction, and is well worth frequent rereading.	2001-05-24
US	45490382	R16VW55OA7CPAU	0809139618	810337133	Finding the Treasure: Locating Catholic Religious Life in a New Ecclesial and Cultural Context (Religious Life in a New Millennium, V. 1)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	The Major Work In This Area For Years To Come	This is the first of a two-volume work, this one defining where and what Religious Life (RL) is today, the second to be published later this month deals with how RL is or should be lived, and it's said that there may be a third volume to address a number of remaining issues.  It is a bricolage of insights from many disciplines fit into an intelligible pattern out of Schneiders's long experience; Religious and other readers will judge the results depending on their own experience.  It deals with present-day, first-world Religious women and specifically apostolic sisters.  Contemplative, male and third-world Religious will need to make their own adaptations.<br />Part I of this volume describes the human context of RL.  RL is humanly grounded in the anthropological archetype of the Monk (who seeks one thing), the psychological archetype of the Virgin (one-in-herself), and the sociological type of the Religious virtuoso.  A sociological approach to RL as an organic life form with multiple interrelated aspects rather than distinct separable elements addresses the issues of (various levels of) membership in a congregation as well as its growth, self-renewal and possible decline and death.  Since and because of Vatican II sisters have leapt from the middle ages to postmodernity in the space of 30 years, and the types of postmodernity that form the present historical context and options for RL are distinguished.<br />Part II looks at the ecclesial context of RL.  Theologically it is rooted in the grace of Baptism, but characterized by consecrated celibacy; contemplative closeness to God and social unity with the marginalized put Religious in a unique place to exercise a prophetic role and calling particularly inside the Church.  Spiritually RL seems to be collectively going through a postmodern crisis comparable to the Dark Night of the Soul, not showing the characteristic signs of death throes, but the real possibility for new life.  The ecclesiastical confusion about theplace of Religious in relation to the hierarchical structure, canonical status and theological identity is seen to be caused by the mandatory singleness of the clergy, the sexualization of power relations in the Church, and the privative connotations of the term \\"lay,\\" as well as from positive developments of Vatican II.  The issues of canonical status and the (hypothetical) ordination of Religious women are addressed to clarify related topics.  Various levels of the charism of RL are disentangled and on one level the mobile ministerial form of RL is affirmed as an ages-old calling valid in itself and not a watered down form of monasticism.  Three special areas need the prophetic mission of RL today: interreligious dialog, the dialectic of religion and spirituality, and feminism in the Church.<br />Schneiders is herself the prophetic Religious she describes in the book, comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable, consoling Religious in their spiritual Dark Night, and summoning them from becoming merely a cheap ecclesiastical work force to assuming the mantle of prophecy and renewed leadership.  She is prophetic too in identifying the continuous systemic injustices caused by the patriarchal structures of the Church and the sexism of churchmen, and so is likely to receive a prophet's welcome and reward in many quarters.  But whether you agree with her or not, in whole or in part, she has with clarity and expertise defined the terms, identified the problems and mapped out the areas for the discussion of Religious life for years to come.	2001-05-12
US	45490382	R2SVG5QFD4BVCC	0140190627	19383685	Be As You Are: The Teachings of Sri Ramana Maharshi (Compass)	Books	5	147	149	N	N	Excellent Introduction To Teaching Of Ramana Maharshi	Godman has done a great service for those who want an introduction to the (conceptual) teaching of Ramana Maharshi, one of the great Hindu mystics and teachers of the last century.  Ramana's recorded teachings are mostly conversations with a variety of people, whom he addressed on numerous topics from different levels of awareness according to each one's ability and understanding.  The conversations then, read chronologically, seem disorganized, confusing and even contradictory.  Godman has defragmented them, as it were, putting together continuous dialogs on each of twenty-one topics. He arranges the topics in order of importance, giving the central and purest teaching first and the adaptations afterwards.  The book is divided into six general sections on the nature and experience of the Self, the practice of self-enquiry that leads to this experience, the role of the guru, the place for meditation and yoga, levels or varieties of religious experience, and theoretical metaphysical concerns (creation, reincarnation, God, suffering, and karma).  Each general section contains three to five subordinate topics treated in a unified conversation.  Of particular value are Godman's one or two page introductions to each section and topic that read sequentially provide an excellent introduction to and summary of Raman's teaching.  While the introduction and composite conversations are sometimes repetitious, Ramana's concepts are sufficiently obscure that repetition is a clarifying desideratum.	2001-05-03
US	45490382	R34DGN4OS9EMXO	0809134659	614620618	Allowing the Creator to Deal With the Creature: An Approach to the Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius of Loyola	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Masterful Insights Into The Spiritual Exercises	Barry is a very well known, highly respected and extremely experienced spiritual director, retreat director, and psychologist who writes this text out of that wealth of theoretical knowledge and pastoral experience for spiritual directors and primarily for directors of Ignatian retreats.  The title affirms a faith that God deals directly with souls and the director's task is merely to facilitate that relationship, assisting retreatants to clarify their desires, be open to God's self-revelation, and understand their unique role in the divine plan using imaginative prayer, feeling, discernment and previous touchstone religious experience. These themes and more are developed in this masterful text that would be profitable not  just to spiritual directors but to anyone whose spirituality is Ignatian or based in the Spiritual Exercises.	2001-04-29
US	45490382	R1Q3FD0TAQ8W7L	1573221759	13999272	Seeds of Grace: A Nun's Reflections on the Spirituality of Alcoholics Anonymous	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Simple, Straightforward Story of Sobriety &amp; Faith	Sister Molly Monahan is a member of AA who honors its traditions and so writes under a pen name.  She does not write as an spokesperson for AA, but what she hands on is its essential and impolrtant message along with some sense of what is it like to follow its program and take part in its fellowship and meetings.  In passing she explains also a lot of its slogans that are called clich&eacute;s but are in reality informal shorthand for big chunks of wisdom that are foundations for recovery and sobriety.  People expecting an unusual story because she is a nun might be disappointed; alcoholism afflicts nuns and priests pretty much like every other kind of person, and their decline and recovery are remarkably like anyone else's.  But she hands on what got and keeps her sober and it is a message worth repeating.  Only at the end of the book does she touch on her Christan beliefs in any depth to show how AA has helped her come to a deeper appreciation of different elements of her faith. She has found, she says, in AA the link between the experience of being saved from her alcoholism by faith in a loving God and the truths and practices of the Catholic religious tradition.  That is something she does not push on other AA's, but Christians in the program might be especially interested in that section. A good message plainly and clearly put.	2001-04-26
US	45490382	R30FIK0DUY7ROO	025333098X	949616604	Vedanta for the West: The Ramakrishna Movement in the United States (Religion in North America)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Good General History Of The Ramakrishna Movement In The USA	One hundred years after the Vivekananda'a talks in Chicago at the World's Parliament of Religions in 1893, this book appears to trace and evaluate the spread of the Ramakrishna / Vedanta Movement in the USA.  While he does no more than touch briefly on what the movement is doing presently in India, Jackson illustrates the peculiar forces at work in India and the US at the turn of the century that were so propitious to the movement's beginning.  He shows the reasons for its early growth while so many other eastern religious imports languished and died, and sketches out the many causes of its later successes and failures.  He does not go deeply into the theology or spirituality of Vedanta, but gives a brief summary of the lives of Ramakrishna and Vivekananda and their general teachings, and he contrasts the movement with the more modern USA phenomena of Krishna Consciousness and Transcendental Meditation.  He suggests some of the strengths and weaknesses that will affect its future success.  Most of the history of the movement has been written from within; it is good to have an outsider and a professional historian give his interpretation and present the various sides of the conflicts that have arisen.  I think he presents an informative, objective, and balanced picture.	2001-04-23
US	45490382	RBFQRGFAFQ4VI	0897323114	817015829	Blue Mountain: A Spiritual Anthology: A Spiritual Anthology Celebrating the Earth	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Poetical, Spiritual, Refreshing	Bachleda has put together an anthology that I would like (and once planned) to have done, but am glad I did not because she has done it so much better.  These excerpts are for outdoor folk  of any kind, for those who cherish the earth or want to do so more, for hikers and those who enjoy just a sunset or fresh breeze.  She has cast a wide net and cites from many ages and cultures and genres of literature, 160 or so indexed authors, passages that are old and welcome friends (like Maclean's \\"Eventually, all things merge into one, and a river runs through it\\" and Muir's \\"Climb the mountains and get their good tidings\\") and many more citations that are new and unexpected gems, even touches of humor like Woody Allen's moose in spats or Marge Piercy shooing the hunters (caw, caw).  As in all anthologies everyone will have some favorites that have been left out or will find some selections cited and wonder why.  The passages are spiritual and responsible, but without any touch of theological tediousness or political stridency.  Bachleda shows us just the beauty, spirit, poetry and wonder of holy earth.  Her selections are arranged loosely according to the theme of the hero's journey from desire and need, to marveling and adoration, comprehension and joy, connection and unity, redemption and grace, recognition and compassion, to hope, resolve and beyond.  One might read it in that order cover to cover -- which unless done a little at a time would be like eating a giant box of chocolates at a sitting -- but a system of marginal symbols for the elements of nature, the seasons of the year, and the religious sources of the quotations facilitates random access depending upon your location or mood.  It is well worth its weight in your backpack or its space on your bookshelf.	2001-04-23
US	45490382	R2OWNJ76V60RYZ	1573221457	359069254	Going Home: Jesus and Buddha as Brothers	Books	3	36	58	N	N	More Harmful Than Helpful To Interfaith Dialog	In Going Home Nhat Hanh continues the Buddhist-Christian \\"dialog\\" he began in Living Buddha, Living Christ.  The sequel repeats the same strong points and difficulties of the earlier book.  The chapters are Christmas season talks given in Plum Village.  Probably because many Christians are in his audience as well as among his readership he uses Christian themes and words to get his message across.  He says he is encouraging them to return to their roots, to go home, even if they are disaffected with their church.  But his words seem to me more destructive than supportive of Christian faith or Buddhist-Christian dialog.  Christians frankly do have a lot to learn from Buddhism and even from Nhat Hanh when he is teaching Buddhism explicitly.  But his use of Christian terminology causes a very serious problem.  If he needed to mention Christianity at all, I wish he had written something like, \\"Christians believe in the Eucharist.  In Buddhism we eat in a way that puts us in touch with Ultimate Reality, let me tell you about it.  Perhaps you will see parallels that will help you in your faith.\\"  Christians could really profit from something like that.  Instead he tells Christians what Eucharist means, what it is all about, and Christ, the Trinity, the Holy Spirit, the Sacraments, Creed, Church, etc., as well.  Yet what he teaches under these words is Buddhism, not Christianity.  Where the essentials of Christianity or the meaning of a doctrine differ from his own Buddhist understanding of truth, he rejects them, ignores them, or dismisses them as a matter of mere words.  In effect he redefines Christian words so that the Christian faith disappears.  His attitude seems to be, \\"As I see it, if there is a real encounter between Buddhism and Christianity, there will be a very drastic change within the Christian tradition... If we can bring into Christianity the insight of interbeing and of non-duality, we will radically transform the way people look on the Christian tradition...\\" (p. 98)  He says that all this is so that the real jewels of Christianity may appear, but are the jewels Christ's or Buddha's?  I am one hundred percent for interfaith dialog, but this approach is not helpful.  Nhat Hanh can forward the dialog by sticking to what he does best -- teaching Buddhism in Buddhist terminology.	2001-04-18
US	45490382	R1ZE2DKYHFJ75O	0826412238	285432295	Jesus: The Teacher Within	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A Treasure Trove Of Spiritual Insight	Freeman is a Benedictine monk and the successor of John Main as the spiritual guide of The World Community for Christian Meditation.  The question of Jesus, Who do you say that I am, can be answered, Freeman suggests, only as we grow in self-awareness, and the answer to that question will in turn lead us to greater self-knowledge.  A friendship of mutual recognition and self-revelation between Jesus and us grows step by step as we see Jesus in the gospels, in a new way of looking at God and God's forgiveness, in the sometimes unlikely guise of the church, in the realm of the Spirit, in the labyrinthine ways of  meditation.  That is the briefest outline; but there is much more in this book than can be summarized here.  It is a treasure almost too densely packed with ideas to be fully grasped at a single reading. Freeman is a writer of very broad knowledge, deep insight, and spiritual wisdom; and he knows well and draws upon eastern religions to very good effect.  Definitely worth a read.	2001-04-18
US	45490382	R3JGBUT17DRWQC	038549789X	255324900	The Garden: A Parable	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Very Valuable Work	This book is classified as fiction, but anyone in search of a story will be generally disappointed.  The story line is a mere thread to hold together and sugar coat teachings about Tibetan Buddhism, and like the thread that holds together a necklace, it more or less disappears under the beads of doctrine.  But it is teaching very well done.   The technique of the \\"parable\\" adds an emotional dimension to what might otherwise be a dry subject, holds reader interest and provides the spoonful of sugar to help the medicine go down.  In search of personified Wisdom with whom he has fallen in love and of an answer to his mother's suffering, the narrator goes to a secret garden over a period of 20 years and there meets various ancient Buddhist teachers who tell him sometimes in a very detailed way about: meditation and meditation techniques to attain compassion and freedom from negative states of mind, about universal suffering and death, past and future lives and the karmic influence between them, the realms of existence, how imprints from actions create our worlds, how the negative imprints can be overcome and the worlds changed, ethical living, the way of the spiritual warrior, and emptiness.  The topics may be very familiar for Buddhists, though it will serve as a mini refresher course. A beginner might want to follow up on the book with something more organized, but will find this a good introduction.  Non-Buddhist readers, while more clearly informed of Buddhist beliefs by the story, may not accept many elements of the doctrine, but it is after all a parable which invites metaphorical interpretation and adaptation of the lessons to the world view of the reader.  All in all an informative, entertaining and useful book.	2001-04-16
US	45490382	R3NIMUSP7JA9PM	1573220183	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	4	25	33	N	N	Very Useful Book with A Major Flaw	Nhat Hanh has written a book that can be of much use to Christians and to a Buddhist-Christian dialog.  He seems to be open to such a dialog and to the presence of truth in Christianity.  He observes many parallels, similarities and even identical elements between the two faiths and describes those relationships with wisdom and insights from his own tradition that might profitably be adopted and put into practice by Christians.  His search for common ground is far reaching, and he generously overlooks the many differences.  But this strength is also a weakness.  He sees a sameness where there is only a slight analogy and tends to identify realities that are not the same at all.  Despite some similarities the Three Jewels are not the Trinity, mindfulness is not the Holy Spirit, nirvana is not God, and Nhat Hanh's description of Christianity in this book is not Christianity.  In writing as he does about what a Buddhist understands on hearing certain Christian terms, he almost also seems to imply that once the West gets rid of its divisive, conceptual, and therefore useless, doctrines, it will probably be clear to all that Christianity is just Buddhism in disguise.  True dialog demands that we honor the authentic tradition of the other and not seek to reduce it to our own.  This goes for Nhat Hanh as well as the Vatican.  Nevertheless there is much for the Christian to learn from this work, not least of which is the need to practice and not simply to profess one's faith.	2001-04-12
US	45490382	R1XUGIM9NFDNDS	0156006391	937190844	The Seville Communion	Books	2	9	13	N	N	A Few Laughs Maybe, But Basically Boring	This book's strong point, if any, is humor, something I would not have guessed from its advertising.  Because of its extravagant characters and dialog it is occasionally reminiscent of The Confederacy of Dunces.  But it is also humorous in a way Perez-Reverte may not have intended -- because of its mistakes about the practice and language of a  Catholicism he is trying to lampoon, the improbability of his action and dialog, and the number of times that the translator (also not sufficiently acquainted with the Catholic jargon) gets almost but not quite the right word.  When someone thinks there are 3000 archbishops in the world (page 21) you can hardly believe him when he talks about the faith life of priests or the sexual fantasies of nuns.  The characters are unreal, and so they and their deeds and consequently what there is of a plot are not believable.  The cover touts it as a novel of suspense, a thriller, a whodunit, but it is in no way any of those; it is not until after page 300 that we even have a bona fide murder.  I found the book boring, and when the surprise endings finally came, I was just glad the book was over.	2001-04-08
US	45490382	R2V2G0EGKZZ36A	0809138921	900035224	With an Everlasting Love: Developing an Intimate Relationship With God	Books	5	24	24	N	N	An Excellent, Prayerful Book	Barry is well known for his work in and about spiritual direction, and he could have drawn on many people whom he has directed for this book, but he draws instead on his own personal experience and on the scriptures to establish the mutual desire of the soul and God for an intimate relationship with each other, and to look at the fear, anger, shame, sorrow, sin and sexuality that sometimes blocks that relationship, and at how these blocks may be overcome.  Barry is particularly masterful in this section.  For the Christian this relationship is focused in a relationship with the incarnate Christ, and section three of the book gives a useful synopsis of the life, ministry, teaching and passion of Jesus with special emphasis on the theme of our relationship with God.  The text is loosely but not blatantly based on the Spiritual Exercises of Ignatius Loyola so that the last chapter on God in the world and an invitation to \\"dance\\" with this God becomes an interpretation, a wonderful one, of the concluding meditation of the Exercises, the Contemplation to Attain Love of God.  The book has obviously been written prayerfully and deserves to read in the same attitude.	2001-04-08
US	45490382	R169GQ1K6QTDYC	0312268017	442989674	The Accidental Pope: A Novel	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Disappointing, Uninformed, Superficial	I had wanted to like this book very much, and expected that a former ambassador to the Vatican would have some interesting insights, but I was greatly disappointed.  The work is very ill informed.  Camerlengo is misspelled throughout.  The writer stresses that a layman cannot be elected pope, which is incorrect.  Cardinals don't know what to do if a non-bishop is elected pope, but this is clearly provided for in the rules they are all very familiar with.  Top churchmen set aside liturgical and other requirements without any particular reason.  The pope is greeted at the airport by an African cardinal who dresses in loincloth and tribal gear because this sort of common touch is supposed to be worth 100,000 converts.  A man who was trained and served as priest does not know the difference between an encyclical and a rescript, or between a priestly and an episcopal ordination.  The pope sets aside other Vatican business to work strenuously for days with a number of cardinals to prepare for a public audience and Christmas homily that each consists of a few folksy remarks, but then tries off the cuff to solve the major problems of the church and the world.  Despite his pastoral experience, he tells a gay man looking for some compassion that perhaps AIDS is God's punishment on homosexuals. All these sorts of things are more implausible than that a widowed laicized priest with children could be elected pope.  Flynn uses the book to lambaste the State Department professionals who presumably gave him a difficult time as a political appointee, but there is a parallel theme here also that the common man off the street off the top of his head can address the world's problems better than the Vatican if he just acts like the common man with common sense and decency.  The weakness of that plot is matched here by the weakness of the writing as well.  What a shame.	2001-04-06
US	45490382	R26OFR894EKERJ	0877280711	336810395	Ramana Maharshi and the Path of Self Knowledge	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Excellent If Dated Bio of Noted Hindu Mystic, Saint, &amp; Guru	This is a most welcome reissue of a hard to find and out of print 1954 biography of Ramana Maharshi, one of the great spiritual figures of the last century, whose life, dialogues and silent teaching have been of enormous value and good example to people of all faiths.  It has been written for the general reader and is quite accessible and intelligible even while presenting the basic teachings of Ramana.  A helpful glossary clarifies the meaning of technical terms.  It is written, however, in the hagiographical style common in many religious traditions from ancient times to the last century, so the modern sophisticated reader might well read some of the more usual stories about the Maharshi with a bit incredulity.  Nevertheless, it is an excellent introduction to the man and his teaching, a help in the spiritual life whatever your faith, and a classic work.	2001-04-02
US	45490382	ROKH4OLPMYQIH	1559705736	408356941	Belief or Nonbelief?: A Dialogue Introduction By Harvey Cox	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Civil Conversation About Religion, Let�s Have More Of It	In an age where civil conversation is at a minimum (where talking heads on TV interrupt and shout each other down, where the late Cardinal Bernadine's attempt to find common ground among polarized Catholics was rebuffed by other American Cardinals), how refreshing to see this interchange between a secularist writer and the Cardinal Archbishop of Milan on the topics of hope, the beginnings of life, the ordination of women and the secular basis of ethics.  They are both mutually respectful and intellectual people open to hear another point of view.  The idea and the example are both great and ought to be repeated elsewhere.  If anything the book is too polite and far too short.  There are hundreds of issues to be discussed and a little further give and take would be more enlightening.  It is not really a confrontation, and there is only one go-around on each issue.  The writers are courteous to a fault.  Eco knows and presents the Catholic sided as if he were on it, and in reality he is not so much skeptical as merely incredulous about a number of things, a kind of crypto-Catholic.  Both are capable of giving and taking a lot more pointed argumentation while still maintaining their mutual respect and amity.	2001-03-31
US	45490382	R1RXF76T2ECH9P	0805050876	944121734	Etty Hillesum: An Interrupted Life the Diaries, 1941-1943 and Letters from Westerbork	Books	5	74	75	N	N	This Is Difficult to Get Into, But Well Worth Staying With	I found this book very difficult to get into.  Like many spiritual journals this book seemed at first overly self-centered and indulgent; one page read boringly very much like the page that went before.  Her sleeping around and her bizarre therapy with Spier put one off.  And Etty herself felt very deeply, vehemently, passionately; reading her can be like drinking water from a fire hose.  One might feel like giving up the battle, but it will be well worth your while to push on.  More and more one begins to see astonishing signs of spiritual growth and maturity and then of extraordinary achievement and grace.  Emotionalism passes into selfless and self-sacrificing love.  She moves speedily from her first ability to say the word God to constant prayer and even to a mystical union, all the more significant for being so unrelated to any conventional religion.  In the midst of ever increasing certitude about coming annihilation, and eventually amid the horrors of the transit camp of Westerbork, this young woman not only manages to preserve her sanity and keep herself from hating her persecutors, but somehow even comes to rejoice in the beauty and meaning of life.  It is truly a wonder how anyone could manage to grow to such transcendent greatness of spirit in so short a time.  How fortunate for us that it happened to a woman who felt so deeply, knew herself so clearly, and wrote so aptly, and whose writings from the midst of the Holocaust has survived to our time.	2001-03-21
US	45490382	R3G23FH5R2OHIC	0915811855	66037508	Blowing Zen: Finding an Authentic Life	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Delightful, Non-preachy Story Of A Spiritual Journey	This is the friendly and very readable story of an Englishman in Japan who discovers the shakuhachi (Japanese bamboo flute) and manages for five years or so to get lessons from some top Japanese masters.  The \\"Blowing Zen\\" (suizen) of the title is a form of flute playing used as a means to Zen enlightenment particularly by the komuso (wandering monks) of the now defunct Fuke sect.  Brooks progressed with great rapidity and now instructs and concertizes professionally.  He describes the progress of his interest, lessons and practice, his teachers and a wide cast of memorable characters, his adventures and observations on Japan and its people.  He does so with perception, clarity, humor and engrossing writing.  You will want to finish this in a sitting.  He doesn't go into detail on the philosophy of Zen or how shakuhachi playing is supposed to lead to enlightenment, nor even much on the \\"finding the authentic life\\" of the title.  More importantly he writes, deliberately or not, in the manner and frame of mind of a person who has come by his practice to some Zen insight, peace, centeredness and authenticity.  No sermons are preached, no instructions given, you may imitate his example with the shakuhachi or in your own way or you can just read the book as the enjoyable adventures of a young man in a foreign place.	2001-03-20
US	45490382	R2IV312HDUGNL3	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Enjoyable, Informative, And Spiritually Profitable	There are special difficulties in writing a life of Buddha.  Information is scarce or hidden beneath mythology, and there seems to have been almost an ideological aversion to recording personal information about someone whose main insight was that there is no self to write biographies about.  Buddha would have approved of that benign neglect, as he probably would have approved of the Taliban's recent destruction of his colossal statues.  Armstrong has tackled the problem well.  She situates Buddha within the specific philosophical and theological world of the Ganges Basin and in the general movement of the Axial Age, when in the middle of the first millennium B.C.E. from Greece to China human consciousness took a great leap upward.  To the framework of what is historically known about the man she weaves what is known about the influences he would have felt, the stages he would have gone through, and the doctrine he taught.  She uses the mythology to portray the meaning if not the history of the man.  The book is as much the story of the Dhamma (she prefers the less familiar Pali spellings) as of the Buddha; and why not, who sees one sees the other.  Armstrong is a captivating writer and has a gift of elucidating whatever she turns her attention to.  The book is enjoyable, informative, and spiritually profitable.	2001-03-17
US	45490382	RUC386YUV6ADB	0877935076	11482387	Listening to the Music of the Spirit: The Art of Discernment	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Competent, Thorough, &amp; Readable, Treatment of Discernment	Since Vatican II Catholics, guided  more by the Spirit than law, have had special need for discernment.  Fortunately, as Lonsdale points out, they have also moved from devotional piety to the Scripture and personal prayer that provide tools for discernment.  Lonsdale sketches the global, social, cultural, ecclesial, historical and religious contexts of personal and group discernment, and analyzes sensitively and thoroughly its many and various elements and techniques, its intellectual and affective dimensions, the roles of consolation, desolation, and desires, and the obstacles to any form of discernment.  He is deeply rooted in and draws heavily upon the spirituality of Ignatius Loyola, and writes with wisdom, clarity, and literary grace.  One useful addition to the text, however, would be a treatment of an element of discernment found in Ignatius's Spiritual Journal and in the First Deliberation of Ignatius and his followers that persuaded them to form a religious order: the options should be considered separately (even on alternate days), and in group discernment the group should seek in unison first the reasons for one choice then later the reasons for the other.  This technique maximizes individual openness to the force of each argument and objection, and minimizes conflict.  Two insights in his last chapter are especially good: that Jesuit spirituality may be rooted in the individuality of the desert spirituality explained by John Cassian, and that Ignatian discernment unites the intellectual, institutional Catholic tradition with the affective, personal Protestant tradition.  Some books you hand on to friends, libraries or charities; this one is a keeper.	2001-03-16
US	45490382	R2UXI31DDQNQRS	0877228655	104081265	The transformation Of American Catholic Sisters (Women In The Political Economy)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent But One-sided Analysis Of An Important Movement	You've come a long way, sister: from the 1950's demur, submissive and obedient daughter of the church who had to be pushed into organizing by the Vatican (!) to the 1990's educated, organized, Americanized, politicized, feminist mature woman who has found her own identity and moral agency and so her own inner authority, and has done so and maintained it despite almost constant hierarchical and Vatican opposition.  The Vatican that ironically started this transformation is now cracking the whip and trying to get these tigers back on their chairs.  American Catholic sisters have gone from the middle ages to postmodernity in the space of a few decades, one of the most astonishing transformations of a group of women ever, and it is excellently chronicled and its elements analyzed by Quinonez and Turner, starting with pre-Vatican II developments like the Sister Formation Movement, but focusing principally on the history of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious (LCWR), which proved to be the vanguard and axis of growth.  As former executive directors of the LCWR at the time much of this change was taking place they have an insider's feel for the meaning of the data they draw on and the comments their interviews surfaced, but as they admit (page x), \\"We bring certain biases to the work.\\"  The description of the transformation is a kind of in-house history that seems to say the LCWR has done all things well.  Despite continuous conflict with the Vatican and the American hierarchy and internal conflict that at one time led to the establishment of a rival group, virtually no attempt is made to present the position of the minority among their members or their communities or the splinter group or the American hierarchy or the Vatican, except to characterize the men as anti-Vatican II, power hungry, domineering, rude male chauvinists who just refuse to listen to the constant and careful explanations of the enlightened sisters.  While there may be some truth to this characterization, one still senses a lack of balance here.  There are other viewpoints that need their tale told as well, there are other sisters who do not see this as their story.  One annoying feature of the book is the constant intrusion of \\"[sic]\\" whenever a quotation from decades past includes a masculine common-gender form.  One wishes the authors had had the imagination and prudence to make their rather obvious point in a more magnanimous and less irritating way.  Nevertheless, the history and position of some, perhaps many, modern sisters are well and clearly presented here.  I'd recommend this book especially to sisters and hierarchy alike, as well as to those interested in the feminist movement of the last half-century.	2001-03-14
US	45490382	R157QNAO6GE1AU	0060670991	474088646	Why Religion Matters: The Fate of the Human Spirit in an Age of Disbelief	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Very Readable Words of Wisdom From An Old Pro	Looking over the three ages of our world, Huston Smith would like to preserve the best of each: the social justice of postmodernity, the science of modernity, and especially the transcendent worldview of premodernity.  He criticizes the widespread notion that science explains it all and that what science cannot explain isn't true.  He notes that such scientism has marginalized religious values, as have our academic culture, journalism, and the legal field.  These four enclose us in darkness, but there is light at the end of the tunnel.  The limitations of science are becoming more apparent, and science more mystical.  There are stirrings of new vision here and there as a postmodern critique shows that scientism does not provide the answers we seek.  We seem to be destined for a higher truth, born with a taste for the transcendent and with a need for a world view that has room for the transcendent. We are drawn to it, and we neglect it as individuals and as a race at the peril of losing our happiness and humanity. Smith envisions a unified, hierarchical order of various degrees of being, and another hierarchy of four sensibilities (atheist, polytheist, monotheist, mystical) that mark our ascent to ever great levels of insight.  Smith, of course, is well known and respected around the world.  He speaks out of an unequaled background in world religions.  But this is a conversational book aimed at the general public, very reader friendly indeed.  It paints its picture in broad strokes, anecdotes, personal confidences, and often with the merest indications of arguments, rebuttals and proofs rather than with academic or metaphysical precision.  It also has a choppy conversation roughness rather than a more polished written style.  But Smith is witty, personable, and charming.  One feels one has spent an evening or two with someone who is interested in everything, read most of what's worthwhile, thought about it all deeply, and is eager and delighted to share his experiences and concerns with any and all.	2001-03-07
US	45490382	R9C1NN4L6QQ62	080063098X	51713690	POSTMODERNITY: Christian Identity in a Fragmented Age (Guides to Theological Inquiry)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An Excellent Treatment of Postmodernism for Theologians	This book is part of a series to mediate to the theological thinker the work of other segments of the academic community.  A great undertaking.  Lakeland, chair of the Religious Studies Department of Fairfield University, authors this key volume on the important but amorphous topic of postmodernity.  He discusses its salient characteristics in terms of a breakdown of the coordinates of time, space, and order.  He describes a range of postmodern thinkers from the radical postmodernist children of the coming age who cannot get enough of it, to the late moderns critical of but still committed to the project of modernity, to the countermoderns who really hanker for the good old premodern days.  He looks at how various representatives of each of these positions approach three key problems: the disappearance of the subject, ethical relativism, and the character of otherness.  In chapter two he looks at how a similar range of postmodern thinkers approach the three related religious problems of, respectively, the reconceptualization of God, the Christian community in a pluralistic age, and the relation of Christianity and Christ to other religious traditions.  Then Lakeland points out the agenda for Christian theology in the postmodern world.  The intrachurch self understanding of the Christian community will continue to be the work of systematic theology.  But if a true interfaith dialogue with and within the postmodern world is to take place, it will devolve upon a Christian apologetics located somewhere between a philosophy of religion and a fundamental philosophical theology to do the job.  And that will be the difficult job of seeking ways to present Christianity in categories amenable to the age, but not unfaithful to the tradition, to enter the discussion with one's faith behind rather than in front, as the context out of which one speaks rather than the condition of dialogue within which one speaks.  In his final chapter Lakeland suggests, given what he has alreadyshown postmodernity to be capable of comprehending, how the three issues of God, church, and Christ might be approached by such an apologetics.  The book gives an excellent overall view of postmodernity specifically in terms of interest to the Christian theologian, and it is well and wittily written.  Since it is meant principally for other scholars and draws on and critiques the work of some two dozen thinkers, usually using the vocabulary unique to each, it will probably be more or less accessible to general readers depending on their familiarity with the authors cited.	2001-03-07
US	45490382	R3HLQGFRIERDFB	157731168X	523490234	What Is Tao?	Books	3	47	53	N	N	Content Is OK, But Basic And Minimal	This is a very little book, about enough for one chapter in a normal book.  It's pleasant reading, unchallenging, accurate and interesting enough, with a few insights here or there, but there's not much to it.  The material is mined posthumously from tapes of Watt's talks and from his apparently very extensive work on Taoism, but one wonders why the editors have come up with so little.  The first two-thirds of the book might be useful to someone almost totally unacquainted with eastern thought.  The last third gets into a demonstration of how to consult the I Ching and tries in a muddled sort of way to defend such consultation by contrasting western linear thought with the eastern organic approach. This tactic seems to me to confuse the issue rather than clarify.  I've appreciated other works of Watts, but got nothing out of this one.	2001-03-03
US	45490382	RXJ576X1ZKLO8	0791422305	240529502	The Rise and Decline of Catholic Religious Orders: A Social Movement Perspective (SUNY Series in Reli (Suny Series in Religion, Culture, and Society)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Demanding Read But For Religious Well Worth the Effort	Today's decline of Catholic religious congregations is part of a pattern where every several hundred years some kind of virtuoso religious life arises, grows, flourishes, declines, and is replaced by another.  Wittberg examines this phenomenon as social movement and analyzes it in terms of frame transformation theories.  She exposes the extent of the present problem, provides a survey of Catholic religious life, explains the theoretical and historical background, examines the motives why recruits have joined and other resources have supported religious orders over the centuries.  She examines the reasons orders flourish and decline, the strategies and supports they use to maintain their existence, and the importance of an ideological framework for both the individual order and the general kind of order flourishing at any given moment.  She examines particularly the revaluation of religious life at Vatican II, the subsequent reinterpretation of the three vows, and the loss of internal and external resources that led to the dramatic decline of religious orders since Vatican II.  She looks with some hope to the possibilities that remain for religious life, but also with diffidence in the ability of the heirarchy and the orders themselves to rise to the challenge.  Religious usually understand themselves and their orders in terms of their spiritual motivation and the work of the Holy Spirit.   Neither of these figure much in this work where the analysis is sociological, and so for the typical religious the book may be eye-opening and very informative of the many other factors that enmesh their lives.  This is a scholarly book.  More than 40% of it consists of glossary, indices, notes, bibliography, charts, etc.  The language is often technical, but educated readers even without a sociological background can stay the course if they are so inclined.  Wittberg helps by providing continual summaries of chapters just completed and sketches of what lies ahead.  For those interested in Catholic religious life today and tomorrow, it is well worth the effort.	2001-02-26
US	45490382	R3L909DMPAMXFY	0809138492	750512976	Preaching Better: Practical Suggestions for Homilists	Books	5	26	27	N	N	If You Preach Buy This Book	If you belong to a tradition where a ten minute homily is more appreciated than a two hour one, you should buy this book.  It belongs on the desk of every preacher  And if you don't preach yourself consider sending it to your pastor, anonymously if need be.  When Untener was assigned to teach homiletics at Saint John's Seminary near Detroit, he began to ask people what they liked and disliked about the homilies they heard.  He collected thousands of comments and boiled these down to the 25 that are the heart of this book.  Later, as bishop of Saginaw, he began the Saginaw Program: a series of very small groups where his priests and deacons could critique each other's homilies.  All of his clergy eventually took part in one or another group, and he took part in them all.   Such are the sources for this book.  It is clear, concise, practical, impressive.  It is short enough to be read at a sitting and important enough to be reread at least every year..  It is to preaching what Strunk's Elements of Style is to writing.	2001-02-24
US	45490382	R1KOMI6NMH6UZ5	0814625045	531924008	The Changing Face of the Priesthood: A Reflection on the Priest's Crisis of Soul	Books	5	33	36	N	N	An Honest Look At Problems Too Long Avoided	There are many problems facing the Catholic priesthood today - one could speak of a crisis.  Silence and denial are the usual clerical responses to the issues.  Donald Cozzens has taken the road of speaking out honestly.  That will be resented by many and seen as betrayal by some.  But Cozzens clearly loves the priesthood and the priests who at great cost to themselves have done and will continue to do enormous good.  As a former diocesan and seminary administrator, a counselor, priest, and teacher of pastoral theology and psychology, one who has been reflecting for the last twenty years on the challenges facing the modern priest, he deserves to be heard.  The real hope for the future rests on facing the challenges and issues squarely, and on taking an unblinking look at what threatens the integrity and mission of priests today.  His topics include priestly identity, integrity, celibacy and intimacy, psychological complexes, maturity, preaching, homosexuality, pedophilia, and a hopeful look toward the future.  The press has focused on the sexual issues, but the need for personal integrity is perhaps more basic.  It was undoubtedly a painful book to write and can be painful book to read, but ultimately its honesty about the issues and its affirmation of the priesthood give hope.  His adapting of Freud's Oedipal Complex to analyze priestly psychology may be his most original contribution but the one to which particular objection will probably be made.  This is a well written and important book for anyone concerned with the future of the Catholic clergy.	2001-02-21
US	45490382	RTONPXHHJQAJH	0156008351	77641626	Shipwrecks (Harvest Book)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Japanese Fishing Village With An Unusual Tradition	This is a quiet tale of life in a Japanese fishing village so poverty stricken that members of families must sell themselves into bondage for years to put food on the table.  After ingratiating us into the yearly cycle of village life, the tale tells us of the villagers' rather macabre secret that keeps them alive, and the unexpected outcome of their activity.  It contrasts their own judgments on their means of self-preservation -- by no means limited to them alone in the history of the world -- with the condemnation that would come from their neighbors.  The book is simply written, interesting, emotionally involving, and compelling; very informative of how such villagers live.  An enjoyable if strange story of what people do to stay alive.  What a pity the ending has been more or less given away already in these pages.	2001-02-19
US	45490382	RV8QVJOTEL8YB	0312204930	722141601	Afterzen: Experiences of a Zen Student Out on His Ear	Books	3	31	39	N	N	A Dissenting Voice In A Chorus Of Praise	Van de Wetering is a humorous and prolific author, admired by many, and easy to read; and his subject -- a westerner wrestling with Zen and its koans -- is intriguing.  Even his eventual disillusionment can be instructive.  Some would say his rejection of Zen and of meaning is the highest attainment of Zen; he would probably call this foolishness.  Van de Wetering began with a nihilism arising out of World War II trauma and came to Zen looking to have it confirmed.  He doesn't acknowledge much his own contributions to his bad experience with Zen, but comes to us with stories of other disillusioned students and of the failings and foibles, scandals and tragedies of Zen masters and other religious leaders, wanting perhaps us to confirm his disenchantment.  But for me at least the self-justifying telling of these sad tales eventually undermines the humor, and the book becomes more distasteful than enjoyable or enlightening.	2001-02-16
US	45490382	R6V0T9NZU18BJ	1573221112	457800928	The Art of Happiness: A Handbook for Living	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Excellent Guide To Happiness And Mental Health	The Declaration of Independence asserts our self-evident right to pursue happiness, but doesn't teach us how to do so.  The Dalai Lama says happiness is the goal of human existence and teaches us not just how to rid ourselves of the negative thoughts from which unhappiness springs, but also how to grow into an habitually positive frame of mind.  This is not a selfish pursuit since compassion and altruism are understood as essential to personal happiness.  In an age of road rage and air rage, depression and anxiety, such a guide to mental hygiene and growth is needed and welcome.  I was initially disappointed that the book had two authors, but now consider this a strength.  Dr. Culter not only adds western psychological information that complements \\"Buddhist\\" doctrine, but also provides good descriptions of the Dalai Lama, engages him in a running dialogue, and asks the questions that I would like to ask, particularly how a non-Buddhist would use the teaching just given.  As it turns out there is very little in this book that is strictly \\"religious\\" or that would be unacceptable or impractical advice to a believer in another or in no faith at all.  The Dalai Lama addresses himself specifically to such people.  Obviously the book needs to be put into practice, not just read.	2001-02-15
US	45490382	RXNZ7OWTVQ498	0385497946	599898766	The Tale of Murasaki: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Slow Pace, Authentic Atmosphere, Delicate Writing	This is a story about the author of the world's oldest novel, a tale of manners set one thousand years ago in and at the fringe of the Japanese imperial court.  It is fiction, but carefully reconstructed from the documents of the day by an anthropologist specializing in the area.  Lisa Dalby's guesses about Lady Murasaki's life and feelings are very well educated guesses.  It was an age, centuries before slashing samurai swords, when court life moved at a slow pace indeed, when perceptions were heightened, tastes ultra-refined, sensitivities as delicate as those of a pea-bruised princess, and repressed feelings given voice only obliquely in allusive nature poems.  The style is Murasaki's and Dalby even provides us with \\"the lost last chapter of Murasaki's Tale of Genji.\\"  Right from your first glance at Hisashi Otsuka's wonderful painting on the embossed dust jacket you know this book will be different.  So indulge yourself, put on some koto music, light up one of Shoyeido's finer incenses and listen to both as you read this tale.	2001-02-13
US	45490382	R1ENOF4JZRR1MD	0829414681	853624939	Jesuit Saturdays: Sharing the Ignatian Spirit with Friends and Colleagues	Books	5	12	13	N	N	For Jesuits, Their Colleagues, Friends, and Future Members	These days Jesuits and their co-workers, particularly in the educational apostolate, are trying to elaborate together their shared mission in common awareness of the centuries-old Jesuit tradition.  Fr. William Byron here makes his own valuable and informed contribution to the cause, drawing on fifty years of experience, much of it in key administrative positions, summing up some of  his recent keynote speeches, and citing extensively individuals and institutions involved in the world-wide Jesuit apostolate.  He writes of the founder of the Jesuits, the reasons they are in education, the kind of alumni they seek to form, discernment and choice, service of others, celibacy, being a responsible individual in community, proper use of talents, the value of the cross, and the question of vocations to the Jesuit order.  He shares with us as within a family everything from the highest ideals of the order to the difficulties of using community cars.  Anyone who wants to know about the Jesuits could profit from this book, but it's particularly aimed at those who work in the Jesuit schools, and its individual chapters would be especially useful as topics for their common discussion.  A correction: the book has 112 pages, not 260.	2001-02-12
US	45490382	R3HGZKLS20POQL	0446672769	282713154	Beachcombing at Miramar: The Quest for an Authentic Life	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Compares Favorable With Lindbergh�s Gift From The Sea	These are the reflections of man who has dropped out of the fast lane and is spending his days in a gentle, reflective life, combing the beach for its treasure, but much more searching his life, his thought, and his experience for the meaning of life, love and ultimate concerns.  Bode is thoughtful and perceptive in his observations, simple but beautiful in his writing, candid and generous in his sharing of himself with the reader.  The book's setting and content invites a comparison with Anne Morrow Lindbergh's classic Gift from the Sea, and it compares very favorably.  Read it, you'll enjoy it.	2001-02-11
US	45490382	R10IPPEMUYELIO	0300083653	133056465	The Image of Christ	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An Artistic and Theological Treasure	This book is equivalently the catalog of an art exhibit at the National Gallery London from February to May, 2000 on how Christ has been portrayed in art from a fourth century Good Shepherd statue to Stanley Spencer's 1926 Resurrection, Cookham.  The magnificently illustrated 79 items in the show are supplemented with photographs of 52 additional pieces of art that develop the theology out of which each set of images arose.  It is a thing of beauty and pleasure, useful for prayer and theology, and the sort of thing needed in today.  Too many postmodern art students have lost contact with the Christian symbols of the western world and are unaware of the depths of their own cultural heritage.  This book will be very informative for them and even for the already theologically educated.	2001-02-10
US	45490382	R1UWHB2GKL6QZA	0385473079	894338649	The Return of the Prodigal Son: A Story of Homecoming	Books	5	28	31	N	N	If you Read Only One Spiritual Book This Year, Read This One	This is the best spiritual book I have read in a long time.  Henri Nouwen needs no introduction, but this is the best of his works.  It's destined to become a spiritual classic of our time.  Rembrandt's painting, The Return of the Prodigal Son, has long been meaningful to him, not just because of its own beauty, but also because of Nouwen's alienation from his own father which is resolved in the course of the book.  He identifies with, and invites us to do so as well, the younger son who is forgiven the grosser and more obvious sins, and the older son who is forgiven the more hidden and meaner sins, and most of all the father who shows us the infinite compassion and unconditional love of God and who calls us to have that same love and compassion for others.  The book is a wonderful marriage of spirituality and art, like Nouwen's earlier book Behold the Beauty of the Lord.	2001-02-09
US	45490382	R3MDNZ36MB4HBC	0300073321	958142798	Saints and Sinners: A History of the Popes	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An Excellent Popular History of the Papacy	Eamon Duffy manages somehow or other to fit two thousand years of papal history into less than 300 lavishly illustrated and very readable pages.  He captures our attention with his opening description of the first century rather unpapal Roman church, and holds it as he paints with broad brush the great movements and epochs of the papacy and of western Christianity, adoring it throughout with wonderful stories illumining the all too human nature of the popes.  He knows his subject, chooses well among the masses of available materials, and treats the popes - be they saint or sinner -- with fairness and understanding; he describes with even hand the enormous good and the lamentable damage this one institution has accomplished.  Those who consider the papacy a monolith will be surprised by the variety of forms it has taken in the past and is capable of in years to come, by the many ways it has sought for greater power, and the many opposing forces that have held its excesses in check.  It is an enjoyable, insightful and informative romp through history.	2001-02-08
US	45490382	R2AQGIHA976SCA	0679759263	127056417	The Soloist	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Gifted Writer Moving Toward More Serious Themes	This novel is on a trajectory from Salzman's light and humorous Laughing Sutra to his more profound and masterly Lying Awake.  He weaves together here some autobiographical elements with a philosophy of the superiority of ordinary real life over the unrealizable extraordinary.  When a cello player's need for perfection chokes his art, and the best becomes the enemy of the good, two events intervene.  He begins to mentor a young Korean boy with talent like his own and learns, as one does, from his pupil.  And he becomes a juror in a case where a Zen student has solved the koan, \\"If you meet the Buddha kill him,\\" in an arguably correct but unfortunately homicidal fashion.  Both cellist and murderer sought perfection, and in solving his own problem, the cellist effectively kills his Buddha.  Salzman is a very gifted author with great insight into human nature.	2001-02-06
US	45490382	R1N4WZVBTCGIPZ	0824518268	823735563	The Reform of the Papacy (Ut Unum Sint)	Books	5	52	56	N	N	A Careful, Considerate, Courageous and Much Needed Critique	Acknowledging that the way the papacy currently functions is an obstacle to Christian unity, John Paul II in 1995 invited suggestions for change, and John Quinn took him at his word.  Quinn, former Archbishop of San Francisco, is a man who knows whereof he speaks and a man deeply concerned for the welfare of  the Catholic Church.  He points out in nuanced and respectful terms that the centralizing of power in the Church, the lack of subsidiarity in the appointment of bishops and in many other things, and the aggrandizement (and ordination) of the Roman Curia and college of cardinals - all changeable aspects of the way the papacy functions -- have undermined the exercise of real collegiality in church synods and national conferences, and deprived the local churches and bishops of rightful authority and power.  Other Christian groups have no incentive to unite to such a church.  Drawing on history and the ideas of Vatican II, Quinn makes suggestions pointing the way to a much needed reform, and not just for the sake of ecumenism.  This is recommended reading for thoughtful Christians of all persuasions.	2001-02-05
US	45490382	R24O69OKP53QSB	0811214397	70954739	Five by Endo: (New Directions Bibelots)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Five Easy Pieces, Vintage Endo	Mr. Endo is a rarity: a Japanese Catholic novelist, a literary Sadao Watanabe.  His Catholicism and literary studies in Europe have made him the most accessible of Japanese novelists to the western reader.  Those who know and appreciate his work will welcome these five short stories, and will recognize his usual style and typical concerns.  A novelist retraces the steps of the Christian martyrs of Shimabara, but he is more interested in and identified with the apostate who agonizes spiritually because he did not have the faith to suffer physically.  Japanese tourists on the make and their impassive guide wander Warsaw and find in the strangest of places St. Maximilian Kolbe, a Polish missionary to Japan who died in Auschwitz.  A box of old postcards uncovers the secret life of a missionary's daughter during wartime Japan.  A fifty-year old man takes dancing lessons amid intimations of mortality.  A man who could not share his feelings with his wife watches her die and then wonders about her possible reincarnation. The last of these short stories is in fact the opening chapter of the novel \\"Deep River,\\" but it becomes more intriguing on its own.  Those who don't know Endo yet will find this a tasty and representative sampling of his work.  Van C. Gessel, who has translated at least six Endo novels, has provided a very readable text.	2001-02-05
US	45490382	RTO90EGXV0MOA	0670886106	415039519	Saint Augustine: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Informative, Insightful, Interesting, Not Introductory	This deceptively small book contains a wealth of information about the life and thought of one of the foundational thinkers of the Christian Church.  Wills approaches Augustine in new, unexpected, informed and refreshing ways.  He gives new and vivid translations to old words, new names to nameless people and misnamed books, new life to old phrases, new slants to a character and thought we presumed we were familiar with.  He is especially good talking about Augustine's youth which turns out to have been not as bad as our imaginations fancied, and his doctrines not quite as dour and obsessed with sex, and his mother not quite so possessive and controlling.  It is a good and insightful read especially for those who are already familiar with Augustine's milieu who have acquired enough of a false impression to appreciate being disabused.  Anyone looking for an \\"introductory\\" work may well bog down here and there.	2001-02-01
US	45490382	R3E4XZ2M6LGX71	0385494106	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	4	34	39	N	N	An Important Message Tendentiously Written	There is a clerical joke going around that when the papal bull authorizing the ordination of women is issued it will begin, \\"As we have always said....\\"  Corporations and their spokesmen tend to avoid ever admitting error, to interpret their actions in the best possible light, and even to bend the truth.  The Catholic Church is like other organizations in this regard.  However, the Church's mission reliably to proclaim truth has, as Wills observes, made it particularly inclined to continue asserting its position in the face of contrary evidence and has made its failures in truthfulness all the more reprehensible.  That is unfortunately true.  His book is a call for honesty, but it is not itself a totally honest book.  Wills is not anti-Catholic.  He is rather a faithful but angry son in a somewhat dysfunctional family.  He is trying to persuade, but in his anger and advocacy is not himself beyond misunderstanding or misinterpreting the evidence.  He presents lots of interesting facts and arguments for his side of various issues, but not for the other.  His interpretations make more of a point about future direction rather than past fact.  He will be very informative to the average reader, and the general drift of his argument may be true, but the devil is in the details, and the details are not necessarily trustworthy scholarship.  A must read book, an important message, but don't swallow it whole.	2001-01-31
US	45490382	R3USMO0YQK4OAE	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Heart-warming, Winning and Well Worth the Read	This is an autobiographical account of a young man's teaching English for two years in main land China.  He also spent his time learning what he could of martial arts, calligraphy, and obviously the wonderfully different and often touching ways of the Chinese people.  The vignettes are sketched with humanity, warmth, skill and a great sense of humor.  When I told my Chinese friends some of the stories they smiled broadly, nodded knowingly, and assured me that that is the way things are.  We appreciated deeply the story of how Mark tried to cash in a dead rat for five cents and ran into bureaucrats who were silly but not stupid.  It has been made into a film and the video ought to be readily available.  Do see it as well as reading the book.  Mark and his teacher Pan play themselves and they're both worth getting to know a lot better.	2001-01-31
US	45490382	R3HHHMRANYQ49	0826412823	969302614	Zen Gifts to Christians	Books	5	63	64	N	N	And Not Just For Christians.	This is a small, but very wise and compassionate book.  It is difficult to keep from reading it at a sitting, but even then it invites rereading perhaps many times, not just to try to penetrate the obscurity that necessarily cloaks all things Zen, but to rise to the challenges each chapter sets one's personal growth.  The Catholic Church has discovered at Vatican II the working of the Spirit and the presence of the good beyond its borders and even the possibility that members of  that Church might learn from those without.  Who better to help that task along than Robert Kennedy who is both Catholic priest and Zen Roshi.  In this book Kennedy comments on the ten traditional Zen ox-herding pictures, an allegory of the search for the true self. He illustrates their meanings with koans and stories of the Zen masters, but even more extensively with a wealth of modern poetry and literature.  This is a guide for the searcher more than a theology for the theorist.   The gifts he has in mind are: commitment to practice, transcending our latest theologies in an attitude of unknowing, self-reliance, accepting impermanence and constant change, self-mastery that is really vibrant living, experiencing the absolute incarnated in the relative, the coorigination of all things, finding the absolute within, being transformed into it, and compassionate service to others.  These are Zen gifts Kennedy explains and commends principally to those Christians drawn by temperament to  Zen practice.  But he writes in such a way that I think the book suitable for people of any and even of no particular faith, who yet feel some calling to the way of Zen.  The book is written with elegance, grace, generosity and compassion.  But if one pays too much attention to Kennedy's message, that compassion can be the compassion of ten firm strokes from the Roshi's keisaku (stick) that strike at our sloth, illusions, dependency, mediocrity, and self-centeredness.  I recommend it highly.	2001-01-30
US	45490382	R6K05K3MCTGYG	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Best Book I've Read in Ages	This is the best of Salzman's five very good books and the best book I've read in quite a while.  It is reminiscent of Ron Hansen's Mariette in Ecstasy for its delicate and expert treatment of convent life and religious experience, and of Arthur Golden's Memoirs of a Geisha for its extraordinary crossing of cultural and gender barriers to describe compassionately and knowingly what ought to be a life worlds away from the author's own.  Salzman pursues here a recurring theme of his latest books: the quest for meaning in unusual experience (the unrealistic aspirations of youth, musical virtuosity, the scroll of immortality, or transforming mystical prayer) and the finding of it in ordinary life.  The lean prose of this thin volume is well suited to convent simplicity, Zen emptiness and day to day existence, but it plunges to profound depths and proves itself a spiritual gift to be treasured.  Read it	2001-01-30
