US	45591388	R1913SB0WG5SD7	0345461754	500157568	Sucker Bet	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Third Tony Valentine Novel Continues a Great Series	James Swain writes fun books.  I can't imagine anyone who would not enjoy his latest.  It's the third novel featuring Tony Valentine, a retired former cop who now works as a casino consultant catching cheaters.  He's a little older than your usual protagonist, but that only makes him more endearing.  He's a pretty well developed character as well.  His difficulty interacting with his son and his neglect of his caring neighbor show the reader that he is far from perfect.  However, what he does is catch cheats, or crossroaders as Swain calls them, and at that, he is very good indeed.<br />Swain's books are worth reading if only for the insight into the world of scams, cheats, and hustlers that he gives us.  Each of his three books revolves around Valentine's investigation of a major scam.  In Sucker Bet, it begins with a blackjack hustle but moves quickly into a major college sports scandal.  While he is investigating, Tony frequently gets calls from worried customers asking him to look at security video or inventory lists and determine how their casino is getting scammed.  These little episodes, while not really part of the plot, are some of the best parts of the book.<br />Aside from the scams and grifts, hidden in each of his books is a pretty good mystery too.  People end up dead and Tony in drawn in through his inevestigation.  As with most novels of this type, Valentine's life and the lives of those he cares about are endangered.  While there are better mytery novels out there, few can match the originality of James Swain.  <br />Sucker Bet also includes perhaps one of the best characters I've ever read about.  He is a chimpanzee named Mr. Beauregard, and he is amazing.  I won't give too much away, but if you can keep yourself from laughing when Mr. Beauregard starts his Western \\"hurry-up\\" music, you need to lighten up.<br />In all, Sucker Bet is an slightly above average mystery novel with enough good character development, originality, and fun to make it worthreading for almost everyone.  It might help to read the others in the series first (Grift Sense, Funny Money) but this could be read as a standalone as well.  Swain is a fine novelist and I'm looking forward to more of his work.  If you like this one, keep an eye out for the fourth Tony Valentine novel, set in his cop days of the late 70's, due out in 2004.	2003-04-04
US	45591388	R24GO77AA2Z509	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Different Harry Bosch Book - But Still Very Readable	Lost Light is the latest in the excellent Harry Bosch series by Michael Connelly.  Unlike the previous novels, this one is written in first person and has a generally different feel to it.  Still present, however, are many of the aspects that make this series of novels so appealing to Connelly's loyal fans.<br />Harry Bosch is now retired.  As readers of the other books already know, he is not the type to go quietly and sit around collecting pension checks.  He is still bothered by his old unsolved cases.  One in particular will not let him go - the murder of a young woman who's hands were found in a unique position that Harry sees as reaching out to him.  During the course of his investigation, Bosch finds that her murder may involve a robbery, other murders, a terrorist, and the disappearance of an FBI agent.<br />This book is written from the first person perspective, and this has several effects on the novel.  The reader is now privy to everything Harry thinks and feels and as a result, we are drawn closer to him as a character.  On the other hand, because everything is filtered through the Bosch character, we are ONLY privy to what he thinks and feels.  This results in the novel losing many of the nuances and subtleties that are usually found in Connelly's novels.  Consequently, this reads almost like \\"Harry Bosch lite.\\"  I finished this book in one sitting, which I have not been able to do with any previous Bosch books.  Connelly's writing has just been too involving. <br />However, readers should not avoid this book simply because it reads easier than his others.  Many fans will love this book because it's a quick, entertaining way to spend a few hours.  Connelly is now writing two books per year and his writing seems to have thinned out accordingly.  Readers will love or hate his new books depending on whether they prefer quantity or quality.  Personally, I'd prefer to get two very good Connelly books each year than having to wait for only, even though thatone might be a little longer and deeper.<br />In any case, I thought this book was worth the read if only because it was entertaining.  Is Connelly starting to sell out a little?  Probably.  Are his later books inferior to his earlier work?  Possibly.  Is he still one of the best crime fiction writers working today?  No question.  Read this book and decide for yourselves.	2003-04-02
US	45591388	R2SG2SD04THL8G	0316608432	664665730	Soul Circus	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Gritty Urban Thriller Complete with Tragedy, Humor & More	The popularity of George Pelecanos is on the rise, and with good reason.  Soul Circus is the third installment of his Derek Strange series, and it more than meets the high expectations set by the previous two.  Pelecanos is to Washington, DC as Robert Crais and Michael Connelly are to Los Angeles.  He knows the streets, the people, and the culture and his writing reflects the knowledge of an insider.  His depictions of urban youth, gang violence, and drug culture are on the mark and he pulls no punches.<br />Character development seems to be a strong suit of Pelecanos, as Derek Strange is one of the best around.  There is not a reader around who will dislike him.  He is not perfect - in fact, he is quite flawed.  He's married, but he's reluctant to fully immerse himself in family life.  He opposes the death penalty and hates the drugs that plague his neighborhood, but at times resorts to violence and illegal activities himself.  He is constantly trying to help the younger men with whom he comes in contact, but realizes that he can only go so far.<br />Terry Quinn is his partner, and he is just as flawed as Strange.  He does not believe in stronger gun control laws, and hates when he is 'punked' due to the fact that he is white.  He is prone to violence and has a temper.  He often steps over the line, but he is just as loveable as Strange and brings a great deal to the story.  <br />Soul Circus is a novel filled with violence and the death of the young.  It is at times brutal, and Pelecanos does not flinch when he relates the reality of murder to his readers.  He does not, however, portrey all those involved in the drug trade as evil thugs.  No character in this book is drawn so black and white as to be wholly good or bad.  From Mario Durham, who is constantly laughed at for wearing a pair of used 'ordans,' to the feared Granville Oliver on trial for his life, everyone has their flaws, and all have redeeming features. <br />This book can be read as a stand-alone, butreaders would probably maximize their enjoyment of this novel by reading Right as Rain and Hell to Pay beforehand.  They are both excellent as well.	2003-03-03
US	45591388	R2SZQLY0XN1KRG	0399149724	619984812	The Confessor	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Smart, Stylish, and Sophisticated Thriller	The Confessor is Daniel Silva's sixth book, and the third featuring protagonist Gabriel Allon, the hero from The Kill Artist and The English Assassin.  Silva's stories are driven by both strong character development and intricate plot devices as opposed to simple action sequences.  The result is a sophisticated thriller that should satisfy fans of more complex, subtle, and intellectually stimulating stories.<br />The Confessor centers around the silence of the Vatican during the Holocaust.  When an author who uncovered facts detailing the secret meeting at which the Church agreed to allow the Holocaust to take place is killed, Allon is dispatched to investigate his murder.  During his investigation, he is stalked not only by an assassin known as the Leopard, but by a shadowy group within the highest circles of the Church.<br />My only critique of this novel would be the abundance of characters.  It can be difficult to keep track of who's who at times, especially since many of them have Italian names.  Realistically, this is a minor complaint, since the characters are developed well enough so that knowing them is second nature.  Besides, if you have difficulty with complex novels, this one isn't really for you anyway.<br />Also recommended - The Mark of the Assassin and The Marching Season, Silva's second and third novels featuring Michael Osbourne, are excellent.  Kurt Corriher's Someone to Kill is a lesser known international thriller that I found to highly entertaining.	2003-02-26
US	45591388	RUEYXUFHNLJUF	1885633092	977540632	White Feather: Carlos Hathcock, USMC Scout Sniper	Books	5	117	119	N	N	An Authoritative Chronicle of a True Marine Hero	The exploits of Carlos Hathcock, the Marines' most famous sniper, are well known by most readers of military non-fiction.  Charles Henderson's Marine Sniper: 93 Confirmed Kills was a bestseller and a great read.  Whitefeather, however, gives a more intimate, complete, and informed look at Hathcock.    Whitefeather was written by Norman and Roy Chandler, who were not only personal friends of Hathcock, but extremely knowledgeable regarding sniping, as evidenced by their spectacular Death From Afar series.  The result is a book that no other authors could have produced.      Anyone who is interested in Marine Corps sniping, rifles, vietnam, or general military history should not be without this book.  It would be a classic if it were better known and less expensive, but rest assured, it's worth every penny you pay.	2003-02-20
US	45591388	R3S2N8LY3IQVUR	0385504268	354796806	The Last Detective (Elvis Cole Series)	Books	4	17	20	N	N	A Solid Mystery - A Mix of Patterson and Connelly	The Last Detective was the first Elvis Cole book that I read.  I enjoyed the author's previous two novels, Demolition Angel and Hostage, and I thought that I'd give this one a try despite the fact that I had not read any of the previous Elvis Cole books.  Usually, if I'm reading a series, I like to read them in order, but I never felt lost or uninformed when I was reading this one, even though there are eight books before it.  If you haven't read anything in this series, you can pick this book up and read it as a stand-alone - it's that good.<br />This novel is plotted well and moves quickly.  Probably the thing I enjoyed the most about it was the idea that the kidnapping was solved through realistic detective work rather than convoluted coincidences and luck.  Also, I usually don't like books that revolve around a child kidnapping, since its really an easy way to create false suspense, but The Last Detective rises above the typical kidnapping story.<br />Crais also switches point of view between at least four people throughout the story.  The same event is seen through the eyes of several characters, though Cole is the only one who reads as in first person.  There are not many authors who can pull this off, and the result for those who try is usually confusion and unnecessary repetition.  However, Crais switches back and forth seamlessly and his use of multiple points of view actually adds to the story.  It's interesting, for example, to read about the same event through the eyes of Cole, then get a different perspective on the same thing through the eyes of Ben, a child.<br />This is a series that I now look forward to reading.  The characters are worthwhile and compelling, especially Pike.  I was often reminded of James Patterson's Alex Cross series, with the interplay between Cole and Pike comparable to that between Cross and Sampson.  If you enjoy those books, you'd enjoy this one.  While Patterson relies on action and violence, Crais' work contains more policeprocedural work.  He's like a mix of Patterson and Michael Connelly.  In all, this book is certainly worth your time.	2003-02-20
US	45591388	R2JPNHU7KB8VFU	1885633009	972773020	Death From Afar Vol. I	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Definitive Series on Marine Corps Sniping	When the Chandlers started this series, they did so with the goal of producing the most complete reference regarding Marine Corps sniping ever produced.  They've succeeded - and then some.  In this, Volume 1 of the Death from Afar series, you are taken into a world to which few are privy.  You are exposed to everything - all aspects of sniping are exposed in intimate detail.  You see candid photos of Marine snipers in action, original notes and log book reproductions, articles on the use and misuse of snipers in battle.  This book would be worth it for the pictures alone, but there is so much more.  It is so detailed, there are even lists of the serial numbers and dates of issue for 10x Unertl scopes.  I can't imagine who would ever need such a thing, but it should give you an idea of the depth of research that was put into creating this book and the commitment and dedication that the authors have to their subject.<br />These books are limited editions and can be difficult to come by, but they are worth whatever you pay.  Excellent.	2003-02-20
US	45591388	R3JDUHUOV3YJUJ	0765301873	236314684	Someone To Kill	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Fantastic Debut - Expect Great Things from Corriher	This novel was simply excellent.  I'm wary at times when so many people give short reviews extolling the virtues of a previously unknown author.  However, I liked the premise of the book and decided to give it a try.  I'd recommend that you do the same.  <br />The central character of the story, John Pavlak, loses his wife and child in a car bombing at the beginning of the story.  He then makes it his life's mission to hunt down those responsible for their deaths.  This storyline has been tried before, but Corriher writes with originality and insight that most novels of this type lack.  Pavlak's mission takes him from his home to Germany, Crete, and to the highest power circles of international intellegence agencies.  During this, the FBI is trying to track him down.<br />I thought that the character development in this novel was excellent.  Pavlak is a likeable, strong, yet imperfect hero.  He hates his father, which adds to the personal drama, since he has to ask him for money to fund his quest.  Pavlak's relations with the sister of his wife's murdered German friend serve to make him all the more human.  Jack the Mercenary is a great character, as are most of the other peripheral players.<br />I'm quite surprised that this book isn't more popular.  It hints of Robert Ludlum and Daniel Silva, two of my favorite authors in this genre.  I recommend that you read it.	2003-02-12
US	45591388	R3FP97ALDVXDID	031228361X	472844485	Liberty: A Jake Grafton Novel	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Boring + Predictable-A Major Disappoinment for a Coonts Book	I'm a big fan of Stephen Coonts.  I've read the whole Jake Grafton series and have enjoyed them all.  Maybe I just expected too much from this novel or perhaps I've just set my standards too high, but Liberty was a big disappointment for me.<br />It's pretty easy to predict the ending soon after the reader starts the book.  The so-called twists and turns of the plot are non-existent.  The characters are shallow and the action is weak.  There just didn't seem to be any suspense.<br />Basically, this book reads like a lecture of Coonts' own personal beliefs about the CIA, Arab terrorists, and the post-911 world.  I really don't have a problem with authors using their own political beliefs as the basis for a story, so long as they are wrapped in action or suspense and don't detract from the movement of the plot.  In this case, they harm the story.<br />Also, where were all the high-tech weapons and gizmos that make stories like this worth while.  The radiation dectors were interesting for 5 pages or so, but hearing about them quickly became tiresome.<br />... As I said before, I am a big Stephen Coonts fan, but this book was certainly his weakest offering to date.  I'm sure everyone who likes the Grafton series will read this anyway, and they probably should, but with luck, this review will lower your expectations enough so that you can enjoy the book.	2003-02-07
US	45591388	RG8PGKJM5TB57	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	11	15	N	N	A Fun, If Ultimately Unfulfilling Novel	I've read all John Grisham's works, but after being disappointed by The Testament, The Brethren, and The Summons, I promised myself that I'd wait for his next book to hit the bargain racks.  However, I'd heard good things about The King of Torts, so I picked it up the day it was released.  I was pleased to find that it was more simlar to his earlier work.  Now, this book is in no way as good as The Firm or A Time to Kill, but it certainly is worth the read.<br />My biggest complaint with Grisham's recent work is twofold.  His latest books have been neither entertaining enough to sustain interest and forgettable enough so that it's tough to remember reading them.  The King of Torts addresses both of these complaints nicely.  The main character, Clay Carter, is interesting and developed enough so that the reader looks forward to seeing what happens to him.  The surrounding cast, though less developed, is still a decent compilation.  The other tort lawyers, especially Patton French, are great.  Max Pace (anyone remember The Simpson's episode where Homer renamed himself Max Powers) is an interesting guy, though he seems a bit contrived.  <br />The plot moves along incredibly well.  I began the novel at 10pm with the intention of reading 100 pages or so.  I finished it in one sitting.  It's really entertaing when Carter, a poor PD, gets the opportunity to earn a quick couple of million and show up his girlfriend's stodgy parents.  <br />The only negative that I found in the novel was the lack of a satisfying ending.  I would have liked to have had more information on what happened with the individuals who were harmed, the other tort lawyers, and even Clay himself.  I really wanted to know more detail on what happened in the Arizona case.  I almost felt like Grisham figured that he needed to wrap up the book to meet a deadline or cut the page count short.<br />Despite the fact that I could have used a little more detail at the end, I liked this book.  Grisham is one of our best known authors and the expectations readers have of him are high.  It was nice to read one of his books that held my attention from start to finish, and I'll now look forward to his next offering.<br />Also recommended: David Ellis's Line of Vision, an excellent courtroom thriller.	2003-02-05
US	45591388	R1GRRP45IUS1CG	0374237131	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Classic	There are a ton of reviews here describing the plot of the novel, so I'll just say this - anyone who likes mysteries, legal dramas, is interested in the law, has been in court, or just enjoys a good story needs to read this book.  It is an absolute classic that launched this author's career.  No one knows the courtroom like Turow.	2003-01-31
US	45591388	R14ZJ6Q7VZWNPV	0614154839	243715630	The Poet	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent Stand-Alone by a First-Rate Crime Novelist	Anyone who reads crime fiction should be a big Michael Connelly fan. After all, his Harry Bosch novels are regarded as some of the best there are. However, you are cheating yourself if you haven't read his stand-alone novels as well. The Poet is the first novel the author has written that departs from this series and is a classic example of a great book by an insider writing on a subject with which they are closely familiar. The detail that is on display when Connelly describes police department procedure and FBI investigational technique makes the reader feel as if they are on the case with the characters. Do yourself a favor and read this book. Read all of Connelly's books for that matter - you won't be disappointed.	2003-01-31
US	45591388	R39WQ4DI88GI4B	0399147071	569781050	Line of Vision	Books	5	13	14	N	N	This Book is John Grisham back when he was trying	This is everything that someone looking to read a legal thriller wants to see in a book.  Great courtroom scenes, legal dueling behind the scenes, twists and turns in nearly every chapter, and an ending that will shock are all present here.  When I was reading this book, I was consistently reminded of Scott Turow's classic, Presumed Innocent, though this book is not quite up to that standard.  It's close though.<br />Some of the negative reviews here confuse me, since I really didn't see anything not to like in this novel.  Yes, it is in first person, which can detract from some books, but I think that only adds to a novel like this.  The main characters are well developed.  The book flows well and the surprise ending is just crafty enough that it's difficult to guess but still believable.  This writer will be very popular very quickly, so if you want to say that you were on the bandwagon before everyone else, read it now.  Ellis is like John Grisham before he realized that he didn't have to try anymore and it shows here.	2003-01-31
US	45591388	RXPISYTTX3TBB	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Patterson Returns with one of the better Alex Cross Novels	Every time James Patterson releases a book, readers use this space to complain about his latest work. People who have never read Patterson should understand something: He does not write with the forensic detail of a Ridley Pearson, or develop a plot like Jeffery Deaver, nor does he have the hard-boiled edge of a Michael Connelly. James Patterson attempts to do one thing and one thing only - entertain his readers - and he does it very well.<br />Four Blind Mice is the eighth installment in the Alex Cross series of books. While this one is not quite on par with Kiss the Girls or Along Came a Spider, it is certainly better than any of the more recent Cross novels, especially Violets Are Blue.<br />There were several positive aspects to this novel. The first and most noticeable is that Patterson brings John Sampson in for his most fully developed role yet. Sampson is a very likeable character and plays well with Cross. In fact, the Sampson character highlights the better parts of Cross more than any other. The second plus to this book was that the plot is better than it has been in the previous two Cross novels. Although most of Patterson's plots are unrealistic, and this one is no exception, this one seems more grounded in plausibility than Violets Are Blue, for example. The killers, whom we know are a group of former army rangers less than 10 pages into the book, are much better as villians than Vampires. This only ads to the story. The final thing frequent readers of Patterson's novels will notice is that the Cross character is fleshed out more fully and from different angles. We get to see Cross the detective, Cross the buddy,Cross the Dad, Cross and Jamilla, and Cross and Nana-Mama. This really helped to give the character a three-dimensional feel.<br />All in all, this book is worth the purchase, especially for a Patterson fan. It is easily read in one sitting and is a highly entertaining read. If you're new to Patterson, it certainly helps to read the Cross books in order, starting with Along Came a Spider.<br />Also Recommended - The Lou Boldt Series by Ridley Pearson, The Lucas Davenport Series by John Sandford, any Jeffery Deaver Book, as well as anything by Greg Iles. For light reading akin to James Patterson, Stuart Woods does the trick.in order, starting with Along Came a Spider.<br />Also Recommended - The Lou Boldt Series by Ridley Pearson, The Lucas Davenport Series by John Sandford, any Jeffery Deaver Book, as well as anything by Greg Iles. For light reading akin to James Patterson, Stuart Woods does the trick.	2002-11-19
US	45591388	R324OWL6ARB2PU	0060009640	944045353	Crush Depth	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Dark "What-If" Thriller that Chills and Engrosses	Crush Depth is the third segment of Buff's submarine saga that pits Jeffery Fuller and the Challenger against the German submarine Voortrekker. America is at war with the Germany-South Africa axis and the fighting has escalated to a point at which tactical nuclear weapons are used at sea. America is being attacted on its own shores and must retain control of the sea to keep from being overrun. Buff has created a plausible scenerio of war that is sure to interest readers and makes his book difficult to put down.<br />Buff's novels bring an added depth that many other war novels lack. His book are character driven as opposed to simply being of the shoot-em-up type. He also takes the reader on board a nuclear submarine in such a way that it is easy to imagine yourself as one of the crew. The book is thrilling at times and poignent at others. It is a quality read and should not be overlooked by anyone with an interest in war or submarines.<br />Also recommended: Deep Sound Channel and Thunder in the Deep by Joe Buff.	2002-10-28
US	45591388	RHMD34HSLIM7G	0399149295	41838335	Blood Orchid (Holly Barker No. 3)	Books	4	23	30	N	N	Stuart Woods Comes Through Again	Understand this: Stuart Woods is not Ernest Hemingway or William Faulkner, nor does he try to be. Woods writes two books every year and his readers enjoy something that not many authors can promise. He never fails to entertain. Some of his books are better than others. Chiefs, for example, is one of the better mysteries that I've ever read, while The Short Forever was just decent. One thing readers can count on from Woods is that he will deliver an interesting, exciting, entertaining thriller regardless of his subject. <br />Blood Orchid is the third novel centered around Holly Barker. Of Woods' three recurring characters (Will Lee, Stone Barrington, and Holly Barker), Holly is probably the least compelling to most readers, though some prefer her to Stone. Despite this, she is nonetheless an interesting protagonist who draws the reader into the story and has us pulling for her to succeed. <br />The storyline is typical Woods with few twists and turns - some of which will surprise, while some of which will be picked out by savvy readers. I've read all 25 of Stuart Woods novels, and while I generally feel that his earlier works are far superior to his later books, I find that if I open his newest book knowing what to expect and allowing myself to be entertained, I am seldom disappointed.<br />Also recommended: Chiefs, Run Before the Wind, and White Cargo by Stuart Woods for readers who want to sample his early stuff. Anything by James Patterson or Jeffery Deaver. Keep an eye out for Dirty Work, the new Stone Barrington novel in April 2003.	2002-10-14
US	45591388	R67SZ86LFNQKW	0399149341	786063504	Sphere of Influence	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Kyle Mills is a Quality Read - Interesting & Well-Written	Sphere of Influence is the fifth novel by Kyle Mills and the fourth he has written about his main character, Mark Beamon. While readers of Mills' previous works will know what Beamon brings to a story, the strength of Sphere of Influence is its plot and storylines, which include many topics currently in the news. These include terrorism, drug-smuggling, and more. References are made to the Taliban, Osama bin Laden, and the World Trade Center. The realistic description of people and events adds to an already exciting and believeable story. Kyle Mills has penned his best novel yet and shows no signs of falling into the trap of mediocracy that plaques many writers at this stage. This book is good enough that new readers will be looking for his previous works.<br />Also recommended: Rising Phoenix, Storming Heaven, and Free Fall by Kyle Mills. Vince Flynn's Mitch Rapp novels including Transfer of Power and Separation of Power.	2002-10-11
US	45591388	R3DHV6PO5N2VAA	1590710045	140201439	The Silent Men	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very Realistic - Amazing Sniper Scenes - Great First Novel	I enjoy reading books set during the Vietnam War, so when I saw that a novel by a new author was released on the subject, I eagerly snatched it up. I'm glad I did. Richard Dickinson has written a novel that portreys its characters and settings so realistically that it is difficult to come up with a comparison. This book is like Marine Sniper by Charles Henderson crossed with Point of Impact by Stephen Hunter. It's that good. Do yourself a favor and read it - you won't be disappointed.	2002-10-02
US	45591388	R2NE46S5RLWUIO	0399146245	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Iles Shows His Diversity Once Again	Quite simply, Greg Iles is talented enough to write any kind of novel on any subject and produce good work. This is an author who has written an excellent WWII novel (Black Cross), an epic tale of a murder in the south (The Quiet Game), as well as his latest two books (Dead Sleep and Sleep No More) which are highly entertaining thrillers. Despite some of the reviews to the contrary, 24 Hours is another quality novel that serves its purpose: to entertain readers.<br />24 Hours is the story of a group of kidnappers who have developed what they feel is the perfect crime. They have pulled it off five times already without a hitch and they anticipate no problems with their latest gig. As you may have guessed, complications arise and lives are threatened.<br />Readers of Iles previous work will be familiar with his complex, involving characters and vivid settings. These aspects of Iles writing are present to the same degree as they are in The Quiet Game. However, because 24 Hours sole purpose is to create a state of suspense for the reader, this does not detract from the story. In fact, by keeping the plot moving at an extremely rapid pace, it would not be difficult to argue that it actually helps. <br />This is an extremely suspenseful novel that readers will enjoy - many will finish it in one sitting. Iles other works are also worth reading. Its very difficult to read any of his works without becoming a fan. On the whole, 24 Hours is a different style of Iles's writing, but one that should not disappoint.	2002-08-16
US	45591388	R2KEGNOZGHI6VD	0345447522	694552150	The Devil's Redhead	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Corbett Arrives with a Fantastic First Novel	I picked up David Corbett's First Novel, The Devil's Redhead, on a whim and I was very plesantly surprised with the choice. This is one of those rare novels that contains all aspects of a good novel without bogging down or taking away from the main story line. There's action, violence, suspense, love, romance, loyalty, and more, all weaving together to create a fine story that all readers will enjoy.<br />The plot of the novel centers around Dan Abatangelo, a former smuggler jailed for several years, and his quest to reunite with his former love, Shel, a dazzling redhead whom he met before his sentence. She is involved with another low level smuggler who creates a dangerous situation for everyone involved when he rips off the wrong person. The violence and danger escalate with every turn and the suspense is kept a high levels.<br />Corbett has written a fine novel that will satisfy several different types of readers. If you're looking for a book that covers all the bases, The Devil's Redhead is a good choice for you.	2002-08-15
US	45591388	R1OODMUPFN5U6K	0399149104	87876541	Rain Fall	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Expect Great Things To Come from Barry Eisler	As good as Rain Fall is, the best part came not during the story itself, but on the About the Author section on the back flap of the dust jacket. It states that Mr. Eisler is at work on the second John Rain novel. That's the type of novel this is - you'll immediately be wishing for more as soon as you're done. Rain Fall is one of those rare novels that beg to be read as quickly as possible but will have you wishing you had savored it while you had the opportunity.<br />The title character, John Rain, half American, half Japanese, is one of the more interesting leads that readers will find. A former Studies and Observations Group (SOG) operative, Rain is highly skilled in covert movement and close range killing. After leaving the military, he set up shop in Japan as a hit man whose specialty is making his victims look as if they have died from natural causes. He has also mastered Judo, adding to his already impressive arsenal. He is both vicious (he kills without compunction), selective (no women), and caring (the book centers around his attempts to protect the daughter of a man he killed.)<br />Aside from the fantastic John Rain, the plot of the novel is above average as well, as Eisler takes the reader through the underbelly of Japanese urban life, from whiskey bars to love hotels. Rain is contracted to kill a man, which he does in an extremely cool scene with a PDA with pacemaker control software. His next contract is the daughter of the same man, though he finds himself protecting her against several different enemies.<br />This book has everything a novel should. The violence is well written and choreographed. The romantic involvement between the two main characters is subtle and adds, rather than detracts as is usually the case, from the story. The humor is timely and effective. The plot moves quickly and holds the readers interest and the ending works as well. <br />I'll be buying and reading everything that Barry Eisler writes for as long as he writes it. This book is that good.	2002-08-13
US	45591388	R2OLH34TLBHHPD	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	4	10	16	N	N	A Interesting Tale - Clancy may be a victim of expectations	Tom Clancy is generally regarded as the father of the modern technothriller. Since Red Rabbit is set in 1983, it lacks the gizmos and high tech weapons that readers are used to finding in his books. Some people will be disappointed that the latest in gadgets and toys are missing. However, I found that what is left is actually a fine story.<br />Red Rabbit stars Jack Ryan as a young intellegence analyst who's begining a post in England. The attack on his family from Patriot Games has already occured but the Red October still lies in the future. Also playing a major role are the Foleys as a young couple begining a tour of duty in Moscow. It comes to the attention of the West that the Russians are planning to carry out an assassination attempt on the Pope, who threatens to undermine the stabitilty of the area.<br />I found Red Rabbit to be a refreshing departure from the chronological timeline of the Jack Ryan books. Ryan seems to have lost some of his ability to think and act freely as the President, and Clancy has succeeded in restoring some of the more interesting aspects of his character by setting the book at an earlier time. Red Rabbit also gives readers more of a plot than the recent Clancy novels in that the characters and their interactions are not obscured by geopolitical struggles and international battles.<br />In all, Red Rabbit is a very entertaining story that almost all will enjoy reading. Clancy seems to be writing on his most comfortable subject and it shows. Keep in mind that this book is set in the past - computers and spy technology are all at early '80s levels. If you're looking for a deeply plotted and involving espionage thriller, Red Rabbit will meet that need.<br />Also recommended - Daniel Silva's Marching Season, Mark of the Assassin, The Kill Artist, and The English Assassin.	2002-08-07
US	45591388	RT7ZY31UPOZM2	0743406281	917581204	Last Light: A Nick Stone Mission (Nick Stone Missions)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Realistic, Gritty, and Suspenseful Tale - Action Packed	It really doesn't get any better than Andy McNab when it comes to military fiction. McNab, a pseudonym of a former SAS soldier, packs so much realism into his stories that the reader can't help but wonder how much is fiction and how much is gleaned from his real life experiences. He uses terminology and phrasing that makes the reader feel as if they are former Regiment themselves, all while weaving a tense and compelling story. This is the type of book that you'll start, and before you know it, you're a hundred pages in. <br />Last Light is episode four in the Nick Stone series. The action begins on the first page and the reader is instantly pulled into the story. Stone is sent to command a sniper team that is to carry out an assassination of a target at the British parliament. At the last second, Stone realizes that something is very wrong and aborts the mission. He has been set up, but he has an insurance policy that saves his life. However, those who sent him on the mission use Kelly, his 'daughter' (readers who have read the previous McNab books will understand the quotes) to force him to once again attempt to follow his target to Panama and eliminate him by \\"last light Friday.\\" <br />Rarely does a book capture the intricacies of individual combat and the technical aspects of both military equipment and tactics so well without losing the flow of the action or interrupting the plot. Such details are so familiar to McNab that they are poured effortlessly into the story without so much as a hiccup. The author does not bother himself with the politics of conflict or large scale ramifications in the manner of a Clancy or a Stephen Coonts - what he gives you is action, raw and authentic.<br />I highly recommend Last Light as well as the other Nick Stone books - Remote Control, Crisis Four, and Firewall. It is not imperative that they are read in order, but if you want to get a feel for the development of the main character, it would help. Also, read Immediate Action for the non-fiction account of the author's SAS career as well as the EXCELLENT Bravo Two Zero for the story of his team's capture and subsequent torture in Iraq during the gulf war.	2002-07-31
US	45591388	R36YKQV51GMFHH	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	5	57	64	N	N	A Spooky, Strange, and Excellent Thriller	Ever since I read The Quiet Game, I've thought that Greg Iles was entitled to much more recognition. He is better than most of the more popular bestselling writers that readers see today. His prose and storytelling are some of the absolute best that I've ever read. After reading the book description for Sleep No More, I was ambivalent about it. I wasn't sure if I liked the idea of reading a thriller involving the soul transfer and its accompanying metaphysics. However, after reading the novel, I can honestly say that I will read anything that Iles chooses to write about.<br />John Waters is a geologist searching for oil in Nanchez, Mississippi. His wife is suffering from depression resulting from the loss of two pregnancies and as a result, the couple's sex life is nearly non-existant. This makes Waters susceptable to the charms of a woman who, at first, reminds him of his former lover, Mallory, who died nine years earlier. He soon comes to realize that this woman is much more than she seems to be and his affair jeopardizes not only his marriage, but the lives of his wife and daughter.<br />As I said earlier, I was uncomfortable at first with the idea of the transference of the soul that is the epicenter of this book. However, these fears were quickly put to rest thanks to Iles ability to weave an intricate, effective story. By the time the book really gets moving, readers will find themselves ready to believe anything that Iles asks them to believe. His characters are well developed and readers will relate to them, especially Cole and Waters himself. If the reader allows some suspension of reality and allows Iles to take them along for the ride, I really can't think of a person who would not love this book for the excellent thriller that it is...	2002-07-10
US	45591388	R22K2R8SG6XKCM	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	4	48	62	N	N	The Perfect Summer Read	I've read all of James Patterson's novels and have come to expect the sort of high quality, high entertainment stories that he is known for writing.  That being said, many readers have been disappointed by some of his latest work, most notably 'Violets Are Blue', which received lukewarm reviews.  It is important to understand, however, that Patterson is pumping out three books a year and each has made for a worthy read.  Not many other novelists can make that claim.  As for 'The Beach House,' as long as readers begin knowing what to expect, they should finish feeling satisfied.<br />Patterson's rapid-fire prose and lightning quick 2 to 3 page chapters are present, which makes the story pass quickly.  The main character, Jack, is an admirable protagonist who draws the reader's affection.  The surrounding cast helping Jack to find justice for his murdered brother may remind some of the Women's Murder Club of 1st to Die and 2nd Chance.  Perhaps the best character is Macklin, Jack's aging but still fiesty grandfather who weighs in with his strong opinions on just about everything.<br />Basically, this book is typical Patterson.  Those looking for a deeply involved plot or courtroom scenes that rival those of Lescroart or early Grisham will surely leave negative reviews here.  However, those looking for an entertaining story to pass a day at the beach or by the pool will get their money's worth.  The book is even called 'The Beach House' - an apt title for the perfect summer read.	2002-06-11
US	45591388	RAASAYU9UXBCM	0553802518	943340840	The Survivors Club	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Always Exciting, Often Poignant, Never Boring	After reading The Next Accident, I was eagerly awaiting the newest release from Lisa Gardner.  I'm happy to say that I was not disappointed in the least.<br />This is a fine book for many reasons.  The plot races along and takes the reader through many mindbending twists and turns.  Gardner has the ability to leave readers shaking their heads and times while keeping the story plausible and believable.  The ending has all the marks of a great thriller and will please both her fans and new readers of her work.  <br />While the plot of the novel is excellent, the aspect of this book that sets it above most run-of-the-mill novels of this genre is the strong characters that Gardner uses.  Griffin is one of the best cop characters that I can remember reading about is some time, while Fitz plays his foil to perfection.  The three women members of the Survivors Club are also well developed, especially the younger Meg.  Surprisingly, Jillian's mother, a stroke victim who has lost her ability to speak and communicates by tapping, is one of the most gripping characters in the book.<br />This is a fine novel that readers will not forget.  It is violent at times, sad at others, while remaining interesting always.  Highly recommended.	2002-05-24
US	45591388	R3912Z3WLZHYNC	0345449622	66515407	Final Round	Books	1	26	28	N	N	Wow. I don't even know what to say about this.	Let me preface this review by saying that I was extremely exited about this book. I read and enjoyed the author's previous book, Murder One, and I am also an avid golfer. I was really looking forward to reading this book. That being said, I am at a loss to describe the depths of my disappointment in this novel. Did anyone edit this thing? This book will alienate both golfers and fans of Bernhardt by combining a severe lack of familiarity with the game of golf with a plot that resembles that of an old Scooby Doo cartoon. Allow me to explain.<br />Golfers who read this book will find themselves in a state somewhere between disgust and amusement. The amount of mistakes that the author makes in regard to golf would be comical if not for their frequency and absurdity. For instance, the author continually refers to water traps on the course. I've seen sand traps, and water hazards, but never a water trap. He refers to 'cart trails' several times, even though they are called cart paths and do not exist at Augusta. As for his hero, Connor Cross, he hits some truely amazing shots and attempts many others. During the Par 3 tournament, Cross decides to hit 9-iron off the tee (which the author refers to as 'tee-offs', not tee boxes) into a hole that measures 450 yards (remember, this is a Par 3 tournament) because the 9-iron is his best club and he thinks he can reach the green in one. 450 with a 9-iron? Another stellar example is when Cross decides to hit Driver into a par 3, and his ball lands on the green and spins back into a 'water trap.' The best of all comes toward the end of the book, when Cross finds himself in contention during the final round of the Masters. After nearly reaching a par 5 in one, Cross thinks he can reach the green in one on the 425 yard 17th as his caddy ponders whether someone has ever reached that green in two during the masters. Alas, he comes up 5 feet short. A 423 yard drive. Yes, he's got some power. Never fear though, Cross makes eagle regardless. He also manages to eagle the 18th. Simply remarkable. Pointing out these errors may seem picky, but they occur so frequently that anyone who plays the game of golf will be so distracted, they will find it impossible to get into the story.<br />As far as this book's appeal for non-golfers, I just can't imagine anyone being able to take this book seriously. Again, the author's mistakes are plentiful, the most egregious of which is when the hero's find themselves crawling through a pipe that measures 'three feet in circumfrence'. Said pipe would be less than a foot in width, but Cross, who is 6 foot, 205 lbs., manages to move around by crouching. The plot races around from here to there with no discernable direction. The killer comes out of nowhere and is completely unexpected, but not in the smooth, \\"wow-I-should-have-seen-that\\" way that marks the end of good books. The reader gets the feeling that he got tired of writing and picked the bad guy at random simply to end the story. Before this occurs, the plot basically boils down to a pathetic comedy of errors on behalf of the Augusta PD.<br />I am rarely this harsh on a novel. As a person who would one day like to write, I respect the effort and research that goes into the process. I've never even given a book 1 star before. This book, however, is one that should not have been published. It is easily the worst book I have read in recent memory, and quite possibly ever. I would not be surprised to learn that Bernhardt had never even picked up a golf club, and I would be astounded if he has, even once, watched the Masters on televison. This is an incredibly bad novel that I finished in one sitting (it is mercifully only 244 pages) just to be done with it. This author should fire his editor tomorrow and his publishing company should begin issuing refunds. Consider yourselves warned.<br />Jon Cavalier	2002-04-05
US	45591388	RNRS5D7F8LCYY	0312280181	394449017	Warning of War: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	God Bless Chesty Puller and the United States Marines...	This novel surprised me from start to finish. Its rare that one finds so many elements of a great novel within the pages of a single book. Warning of War is well written and so detailed, it could easily pass for non-fiction if the reader wasn't aware that it was a novel.  <br />The characters are well developed, believable, and true-to-life.  Federales is a great example of a 1940's era marine squad leader and 'Top,' the link between Port and the enlisted men, adds perspective, especially to the battle scenes.  Another great character is the priest, dubbed 'padre' by the marines.  There are many fine characters in this novel but they are all distinguishable and unique, a testament to the author's skill in writing.<br />This novel is entertaining. It is poignant at times and violent at others. Readers will not be disappointed...	2002-03-22
US	45591388	R2BST447XW8PQP	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	78	81	N	N	As Fine a Suspense Novelist as you will find!	Simply put, Jeffery Deaver is one of the best suspense novelist writing today.  No other author can match his plot twists or attention to intricate detail.  Best of all, he seems to be improving with each novel he writes, particularly with his Lincoln Rhyme series of books.  The Stone Monkey is no exception.<br />The Stone Monkey is the fourth book in the Lincoln Rhyme - Amelia Sachs series (the others are, in order, The Bone Collector, The Coffin Dancer, and the Empty Chair).  Rhyme is a quadriplegic and a famous forensic scientist.  His partner, Sachs, is a redhead who acts as Rhyme's legs, 'walking the grid' at crime scenes.  Together, they make a formidable crime fighting team.<br />The Stone Monkey picks up with the Coast Guard closing in on a ship filled with illegal immigrants trying to enter the US.  Rhyme has found the ship and the police are trying to apprehend the notorious human smuggler known as the ghost.  After blowing up the ship and killing most of the passengers, the Ghost escapes.  Rhyme must find him before he kills the two familes that survived.<br />From this point, the plot rides like a roller coaster.  The trademark Deaver twist are present and nothing is as it seems.  The characters are well developed and interesting.  Sonny Li makes a great addition to the team and provides some comedic relief.  As readers have come to expect from Deaver, the ending is great as well.<br />Highly recommended to fans of Jeffery Deaver, James Patterson, John Sandford, and anyone else looking for a suspenseful thriller.	2002-03-13
US	45591388	RLEH9LVB05OBH	0399148515	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Best Spy Thriller Writer Around	With apologies to Tom Clancy and the late Robert Ludlum, I must say that Daniel Silva has assumed throne among international thriller writers.<br />His latest novel, The English Assassin, centers around Gabriel Allon, the art-restorer-by-day, silent-killer-by-night from his previous work, The Kill Artist.  The book begins with a flashback to the past centering around an unknown woman killing herself upon her discovery of one of her husband's dark secrets.  The reader is then taken to the present day when Allon is sent to meet a client to restore a painting.  He enters the client's home following a series of strange instructions and finds the man dead.  The breakneck plot of the novel follows Gabriel on his quest to determine why the man was killed and  how he himself is involved.  At the same time, he must protect the man's estranged daughter while he and those with whom he comes in contact are being stalked by the shadowy figure known only as the Englishman.<br />Silva's writing is some of the most eloquent you will find in a book of this genre.  His prose is clear and thoughtful and his characters take on dimensions that make the story all the more meaningful.  Allon is a fine protagonist with many layers.  The Englishman is a most worthy villian with both flaws and redeeming features that are capable of evoking sympathy from the reader.  Silva's attention to detail for the settings of this book and the knowledge he possesses regarding the world of espionage make the reader feel totally enveloped in this book.  This is a novel that can be read in a single sitting.<br />Highly recommended to anyone interested in international thrillers, spy or espionage related plots, or simply a well-written novel that will keep them interested.	2002-03-11
US	45591388	R2XDAAN444SAGF	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Much Better than Violets are Blue	I was beginning to worry about James Patterson.  After a few great books early on in the Alex Cross series, the quality of his work had started to drop off significantly.  It looks now, however, that he has turned his efforts to writing about the Women's Murder Club.  Is he getting tired of writing Alex Cross?  Tough to tell.  One thing is certain - 2nd Chance is a fine read.<br />The plot of the novel is similar to that of 1st to Die.  Of course, there is a different killer, different murders, and different methods, but the basis of the book remains the same - 4 women - a cop, an assistant D.A., a medical examiner, and a reproter - get together to solve a series of killings that seemingly no one else can.  The differing professions of the women allow Patterson to bring detail to the reader that would otherwise be tough to introduce.  For example, Claire, the M.E., discovers that one of the victims has tattooed skin under her nails.  Each character brings their own talents and insights to the investigation.<br />Another glaring difference frequent Patterson readers will notice about 2nd Chance is that the author is much more attentive to character development in this series than he has been with the Alex Cross series.  Each character has personality strengeths and flaws and Patterson illustraits them in detail.  One deals with a pregnancy while Cindy becomes involved with a minister.  By allowing the reader to feel personally connected with his characters, Patterson only makes the story that much more exciting.<br />Highly recommended to anyone who liked 1st to Die or books from the Alex Cross series.	2002-03-05
US	45591388	R1R6DA867B7QAO	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Entertaining and Fast Read - Perhaps too fast?	I enjoy John Grisham's novels. I've read every one, and I am rarely disappointed. His most recent, The Summons, is very entertaining, but, while by no means a letdown, left me feeling a little empty.<br />The Summons is a tale revolving around the son of an old judge who dies, naming him as executor of his estate.  While looking through his father's house, he stumbles across boxes containing a very large amount of money.  He doesn't know what to do with it - if he declares it part of the estate, half will go to taxes and he will have to share half with his brother, a drug addict, who will likely put his new wealth directly up his nose.  Also, he does not know where the money came from and his house is broken into several times by someone looking for the loot.<br />While the plot of The Summons moves quite quickly, I found that I wanted more character development and a slighly more involving plot.  The book is not long, at only about 340 pages, and when I got through the first 200 pages, I felt as if I had only finished an introduction.  The book only took me two and a half hours to read.  While this is partially due to Grisham's skill as a writer and his ability to pen swiftly moving and involving stories, I believe the book could have used a bit more depth.<br />If you are looking to read a novel that you can finish in one sitting, this is definetly for you.  I also recommend Brad Melzer for other legal-type thrillers, especially The First Council.	2002-02-06
US	45591388	R3TN5LH336UVQI	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	5	61	69	N	N	Meltzer latest is better than Grisham	I've read Meltzer's three earlier books and think very highly of them, especially The First Council.  Though I've been looking forward to The Millionaires, I was worried that he was due for a bit of a letdown.  I am very pleased to say that The Millionaires may be his best yet.<br />Oliver and Charles, two brothers, decided to steal three million dollars from the bank at which they work.  They need the money to help their mother with her bills and to get out of debt themselves.  They develop what they believe to be a fool-proof plan.  Someone, however, is one step ahead of them, and the price they pay as a result is high.  <br />The Millionaires is written from the first-person perspective of the main character, Oliver, which makes for a very fast and entertaining read.  In fact, Meltzer may be one of the finest first-person writers around today.  Each of his characters is well developed and the plot moves quickly.  The twists and turns that make this novel so entertaining are unexpected yet believable, which only adds to the feel of the story.  Of course, perhaps the most interesting aspect of the book is that as we follow the characters through their ordeals, we can relate to the dilemma that they faced in deciding to take the money.<br />Other recommendations - The Tenth Justice, Dead Even, and The First Council by Brad Meltzer.  Anyone who enjoys Jeffery Deaver, James Patterson, Vince Flynn, John Sandford, or any of John Grishams older books will love this author.	2002-01-09
US	45591388	R1ZOQFUTVYHP3D	0671047337	141415139	Separation of Power (A Mitch Rapp Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Story, Fast Read	Separation of Power was the first Vince Flynn novel that I have read.  I was impressed enough with it that I immediately went out and purchased Transfer of Power and The Third Option.<br />This novel centers around Mitch Rapp and several other characters from Flynn's previous novels.  I probably would have benefited from reading those novels in order, but I didn't feel like I was missing anything while I was reading this one.  In fact, I thought that having read Separation of Power first, I enjoyed the other books even more.<br />Highly recommended to anyone who reads Clancy, Brad Meltzer, John Grisham, or any other political/thriller writers.	2002-01-07
US	45591388	RC5TPCYAYX7IJ	0066212502	241425143	Blowback	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Exciting Read with a Quick Plot	Richard Whelan, a Harvard Graduate and National Security Advisor, is framed for the murder of his girlfriend, the daughter of a major defense contractor.  At the same time, India uses a nuclear weapon against Pakistan, bringing the region to the brink of war.<br />Rarely does one find a novel with a plot that moves as quickly as this.  This book is easily readable in one sitting and readers will no doubt be fully entertained.  While at some points the story becomes somewhat overly spectacular, readers who can suspend belief for a while will enjoy Blowback in much the same way they would enjoy a movie like Air Force One or Clear and Present Danger.<br />I have only one complaint about Blowback, and it is a minor one at that.  I felt that the main character's race became too much of a focal point at times.  While this is, in some other cases, necessary to develop the characters in a story, I felt that the fact that every one of the 'bad guys' was at least moderately racist while all of the 'good guys' were not detracted from the story.  While this complaint by no means makes Blowback any less worthy of reading, I do feel that the author has crafted too good a story to rely on racial tension to make his lead character any more heroic.  <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who reads James Patterson, Brad Meltzer, John Sandford, or Jeffery Deaver.	2001-12-28
US	45591388	R2M231WP61JSY9	0553282352	151918758	The Day Before Midnight	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Hunter is Top Notch	After reading The Master Sniper, I took me a while to get back to reading Stephen Hunter.  I wish it hadn't.  Upon finishing the last Bob Lee Swagger novel, I was leary about reading The Day Before Midnight since I loved the Swagger character so much.  WOW - was I wrong.  Let's just say this - NOBODY can develop a character like Stephen Hunter.  While reading his books, you feel connected to the people he is writing about. Regardless of the number of central characters (in this book, there were at least 9), he is able to make every one seem lifelike and important.  You remember his characters and you root hard for them or against them.  <br />As far as the plot goes, yes, it has been done before.  None have done it as well as Hunter.  Period.	2001-12-26
US	45591388	R38JTED3S5PRXN	0553801368	947484554	Thunder in the Deep: A Novel of Undersea Nuclear War	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Very Entertaining, Fast-Paced Read	Thunder in the Deep was the first Joe Buff book that I have read and it was good enough for me to make his first book, Deep Sound Channel, my next read.  <br />I picked up the book because he has been compared to Tom Clancy.  Since I have read and enjoyed Clancy's novels, I thought that I'd give Buff a try.  While I am glad that I did, I found that the comparisons to Clancy were unwarrented.  This is NOT a bad thing.  Clancy's books are much deeper and have a much wider scope, often containing political or social commentary that he ties in well with the rest of the story.  You won't find any of that in Thunder in the Deep.  The result is a book that maintains its pace throughout and keeps the action coming.  This is not to say that the author is any less a writer than Clancy, just that the book is a different type of read.  <br />I'd recommend this book to anyone who likes Clancy, military or combat novels, and especially people who enjoy techno-warfare.	2001-12-26
US	45591388	R21370IJ8UK0Q5	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	4	1	4	N	N	All-Encompassing Novel That May Turn Off Some Readers	While I enjoyed The Bear and the Dragon very much, I must say that the book is not for everyone.  While Clancy has written some of the best &quot;techno-thrillers&quot; of the past two decades, Bear lacks much of the raw action of Rainbow Six or Clear &amp; Present Danger.  Readers looking for a speedy action read will be disappointed.  <br />Despite the fact that Clancy is often slighly off-base with his political commentary or cultural depiction, I have always felt that the fact that his books include subplots in these areas to be a positive.  This is most evident in The Cardinal &amp; The Kremlin and can been seen again in Bear.  <br />The most important thing to know when picking up a Clancy novel is that he is in a genre by himself.  No one else, for better or for worse, writes like him.  Some readers may be put off by this or may not be able to follow Clancy's complex and multi-faceted plots.  I couldn't critique anyone for not liking this book.  However, if you are looking for a novel that is about more than guns, bombs, and missiles, I would recommend The Bear and The Dragon highly.	2001-12-13
US	45591388	RY5XAQZS8ABCH	0553563513	40945852	Point of Impact (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I'm hooked	The first Stephen Hunter book that I read was The Master Sniper.  Even though I thought it was decent, it didn't exactly have me running out to pick up Hunter's other books.  After reading Point of Impact, I did.<br />As spectacular as the plot of this novel is, Hunter does a wonderful job of keeping everything tied together and believable.  Although Swagger seems to be an unstoppable force, his personality and flaws make him likeable and, at times, sympathetic.  Point of Impact is one of the better examples of a book that is able to weave action and drama together without losing readers who are looking for one or the other.<br />Highly recommended.	2001-11-28
US	45591388	REQLXDC6JMT38	0679459626	466482043	Flesh and Blood	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Couldn't Put it Down	Flesh and Blood was my first Kellerman novel.  After reading this one, I'll be checking out the other 13 Alex Delaware novels.<br />I won't rehash the plot again, but this novel starts out quickly and does not slow down.  The plot is tightly woven and Kellerman wastes little space on irrelevant details.  This is one of the few books that starts off well and only gets better.<br />After finishing off every James Patterson, John Sandford, and Jeffery Deaver novel, I've been looking for a new author to read.  I'm now looking forward to reading the rest of Jonathan Kellerman's novels.  If you've read any of the authors I mentioned above, you'll enjoy this book.	2001-11-28
US	45591388	R2ISBWLCQ04QB2	0345441508	788622093	Last Breath: Cautionary Tales from the Limits of Human Endurance	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Uniquely Frightening and Unexpectedly Good	I could not put this book down without finishing it.  Stark's characters, though fictious, are brought to life so vividly that it is difficult not to imagine yourself in the same situations.  I found myself grimacing at times and pulling for them at others.  <br />A great read.  If this book does not make you think twice about Kayaking or force you to pay a little extra attention to your Vitamin C intake, I would be very surprised.	2001-11-05
