US	45818544	R3LTPT3YKBUNFN	193299310X	655158026	The Frugal Book Promoter: How To Do What Your Publisher Won't	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Suzie Housley- Book Reviewer, MyShelf.com	What an outstanding book!!! This book is a MUST have for any author who is serious about learning the proper techniques to<br /><br />promote their book.  This wonderful author shares a wealth of information that will open countless doors to help promote your book.	2005-03-24
US	45818544	R2CBRRKU8SEKL7	0821774689	280036777	An Unmistakable Rogue	Books	5	10	12	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Review	Chasity Somers is married and widowed within three days. Picking up the pieces of her broken heart, she rescues her late husband's young cousins from a workhouse. She is determined to start her own orphanage by accepting her husband's inheritance in Sunnyledge. She didn't anticipate anything would stand in her way of providing a home for her charges. Then unexpectedly Reed Gilbride shows up, claiming that he is the lost heir of Sunnyledge.<br />Reed Gilbride had never known the love of his real parents, having been raised by a couple who were not related and who never let him forget it. When he receives word that he's the missing heir to Sunnyledge, it intrigues him to find a piece of his lost heritage. He is surprised to find a houseful of children and one beautifu,l strong-willed woman who claims she is the rightful owner. He has three months to prove her wrong. Who will win out in the end, and at what cost?<br />Annette Blair is one of my all time favorite authors. Her writing skill is in a league all by itself. An Unmistakable Rogue is the third book in one of the best series I've read in a decade. This series is a definite must have for any historical romance fan who crave a book that leaves a lasting impression. Very Highly Recommend.	2004-03-07
US	45818544	RKWTMO50IMVUS	1586215280	384413662	Brag! The Art of Tooting Your Own Horn Without Blowing It	Books	5	14	16	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	In today's corporate market, competition is fierce, as people try to out do each other to get ahead. There are many techniques, but not every one is effective. Finding the right marketing technique to sell your skills is crucial. Survival is only for the fittest.<br />  Peggy Klaus is a world-renowned Fortune 500 communication coach. Being an expert in the art of communication has enabled her to create a book based on simple-to-understand, real-life concepts. Her techniques show how to capitalize on being yourself while making the most of your accomplishments.<br />  With her &quot;Track 12&quot; concept, she allows readers the opportunity to interact with the book itself by answering questions that can be referred back to at the right time and appropriate moment to make yourself outshine the competition. For instance, you will learn how to effectively throw a reference to one of your achievements into everyday conversations without sounding phony or unnatural. Her advice is golden; it provides the polished style and refined substance needed to climb the corporate ladder.<br />  Of all the books I have ever read on this subject, I found Ms. Klaus's to have the most grace and the most overall, long-term impact. For anyone who is struggling to gain the recognition for their hard work and long hours, this is the book you will need to add to your book collection. Very highly recommended.	2003-09-05
US	45818544	R2CZX3C7MQJAZO	0972851321	456084202	Desert Heat	Books	5	3	7	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Kristie Leigh Maguire is the Queen of Romance.  Grab the ice cubes, for this one will burn your hands for it is so hot!  This book is a must read for any true blue romance fans.  I highly recommend it to anyone who wants to savor a romance that sizzles!	2003-07-27
US	45818544	R3O54A8SF6IH2L	0967889588	533505903	Dry, Up, with a Twist	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Exile, not aspiration, is the force that pulls an individual into fine-dining service . . .<br />  At the young age of fourteen, Galloway gets his first taste of working in the restaurant business. He geared his dreams to focus on one day becoming a Naval Aviator. Many obstacles prevent him from turning his dream into a reality. When he realizes that they will never take shape, he finds himself once again back at the work in fine dining--there the adventure is about to begin!<br />  John A. Galloway has written a very unique novel. It begins as an autobiography that provides the foundation needed to give the novel the strong structure required, making it a smash hit. Second, the reader is able to go inside the mind of a waiter and see what their thoughts really lead, concerning their customers. Third, it shows how hard work and determination combined will enable a person to get through anything life throws their way. There is no better book written in which an author has successfully used so many different types of emotions. I feel anyone who takes the time to read this delightful novel will be rewarded with a very realistic life experience.	2003-03-04
US	45818544	RIV6YR80JF7SP	0972234977	932894447	Fallen Angels/ Rafe's Heart	Books	3	6	6	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Fate had brought them together; blood was the bond that sealed their relationship . . .<br />  They were dubbed 'The Fallen Angels', social outcast to the ton. Their reclusive existence captured the attention of a 400-year-old sorceress who had turned immortal. Her fiendish intent was to make the three hers by bestowing the dark gift she possessed to each of them. Her childlike innocence fooled the unsuspecting trio. Forever they would pay the price of unwittingly falling into her poisonous spider's<br />web. . . for they were dammed to walk forever in eternity.<br />  Cindy Gengler's Fallen Angels / Rafe's Heart contains all the elements paranormal fans crave. What I found so unique about this novel was the ability for the reader to see how the characters were given the dark gift hundreds of years prior. Then the setting changes, and the trio find themselves in modern day New Orleans, a city that is overflowing with darkness and mystery. There, they are constantly fighting the demons that are intent on destroying their existence. In the mist of the mayhem, I found a beautifully crafted love story that begged to be revealed and explored. I predict this author's fresh new voice will be one that will have fans demanding to see more of her mesmerizing work.	2003-03-04
US	45818544	R23LTC36ZYBDVH	0804120013	610490370	In Too Deep (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 4)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Revenge is sweet nectar when once obtained . . .<br />A year had passed since ex navy SEAL Michael Wright had visited Paradise Island. His last visit had made a sudden life changing impact by costing him his eye, career, and the death of his best friend. He now finds himself once again back at Paradise with the sole intent to seek out and destroy the demented soul responsible for all the pain he has had to endure. Having the island under surveillance gives him the perfect opportunity to plot out his revenge. He is stunned when the yacht carrying his archenemies daughter, Tally Cruise, unexpectedly explodes right before his eye. His gaze combs the sea to search for any survivors; miraculously he spies Tally and brings her safety aboard his ship. In her he sees a pawn that is ready to be used.<br />Paradise is no always as it appears . . .<br />Tally Cruise had arrived at Paradise Island to be reunited with a father that she had never known. The majestic beauty of the island lures her to believe that this reunion will be everything she had ever dreamed. Unexpectedly, the yacht she arrives on explodes under her feet. She finds herself hurled into the turbulent sea. Incredibly, she is saved when an unknown hand fishes her out of the ocean, and pulls her safety to the deck of his ship. When her gazes meets her guardian angel, she finds herself staring into the face of a pirate. Will this pirate succeed in capturing her heart, or destroy her in the process?<br />Cherry Adair's In Too Deep sizzles with every turn of the page. She has successfully loaded this captivating novel with some of the steamiest ammunition that includes such intriguing elements as mystery, suspense, and the true essence of romance. This book will fast become a rarity, for it is sure to be on everyone's who reads it keeper shelf. VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED	2003-03-04
US	45818544	R24KJD00GCU0AC	0446610852	581545043	The Kissing Game	Books	4	2	3	N	N	MyShelf.Com Book Review	Lady Allegra Nesbitt's father, Oxie, is notorious for playing harmless pranks on the ton. She finds his jokes to be a humorous diversion that provides countless hours of entertainment. But she didn't count on him to use her in his latest adventure that involved devising a plan that would bring her to London to find a worthy husband. Such a prospect does not hold any appeal. Will she find herself the butt of his joke?<br />  Armand Gautier is amongst the ton's exclusive inner circle. His small fortune allows him the freedom to roam amongst the rich and famous of London's elite society. Few knew of his relentless search to find the owner of a mysterious handkerchief that he always kept close at hand. Can the identity of the person reveal a secret that will release his heart?<br />  Armand finds himself fascinated with his neighbors, the Nesbitt's. Allegra's alluring eyes calls out to his troubled soul. Will he be the one caught up in the quest to find her a husband? Or will the prank backfire and result in deadly consequences?<br />  Kasey Michael writes the type of novel that is to be savored with hot chocolate by a crackling open fireplace. This heart-rending romance will provide the spark need to weather any cold evening. Such enchanting novels as this one have restored my faith in historical romance.	2003-03-04
US	45818544	R3RIVBBDYG3VRB	0821773844	692930895	AN Unforgettable Rogue (Zebra Ballad Romance)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Beauty resides where gentleness and love are the wondrous of gifts . . .<br />  Alexander `Alex' Huntington was moving on with her life; she stood before the altar to pledge herself to another. A year had passed since she had been widowed when her husband died on the battlefields of Waterloo. Her thoughts were haunted by the love she felt for her first husband, who she had loved since childhood-a love that was never returned. She was shocked when she saw a limping stranger slowly making his way towards the altar. There was something familiar about the newcomer that made her heart beat faster. When she heard a voice from the past declare that he was her husband come back to her from the dead, she felt herself go faint. Had her thoughts of her beloved been turned into a reality?<br />  Bryceson Wakefield, Duke of Hawksworth had returned from the war a changed man. No longer did he possess the golden looks that had once made him the catch of London's elite society. His face and body exhibited hideous scars that were a daily reminder of what he had suffered that ill-fated day when he was given up for dead. He felt that his scars make him unworthy to claim his husband's rights to his beautiful wife. Although he felt he was not worthy of his wife, he refused to allow her to marry an enemy, the Viscount Chesterfield. Stopping the wedding ceremony was his only option. Seeing the beautiful swan his wife Alex has become in the year they had been apart only heightened his awareness of how beastly he must appear to her. Secretly he vowed to one day release her from the commitment that bound them together. Only his heart knew of the magnitude of his love for her, a love that did not become apparent to him until he lay so close to death. Such a love could not be forced to live with the beast that he had become.<br />  As a reader/reviewer I have made it a point to seek out and read every Beauty/Beast theme reads that I can lay my hands upon. Since childhood, this theme has been one of my all time favorites. I can honestly say that Annette Blair has written the best Regency I have found in this genre. Annette Blair's characters magically wrapped their way around my heart. My tears of sorrow quickly changed to joy as I finished the last heart-wrenching page. To say that I was impressed with the first book that I have read by this author is an understatement. I am thrilled that there are other sequels to come from this book. I can easily see this memorable series being made into a mini-series for television. VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!been one of my all time favorites. I can honestly say that Annette Blair has written the best Regency I have found in this genre. Annette Blair's characters magically wrapped their way around my heart. My tears of sorrow quickly changed to joy as I finished the last heart-wrenching page. To say that I was impressed with the first book that I have read by this author is an understatement. I am thrilled that there are other sequels to come from this book. I can easily see this memorable series being made into a mini-series for television. VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2003-02-09
US	45818544	RFYUITPOJP6KZ	0446612324	957586241	Bride of the Beast	Books	5	4	6	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	A lady in need of rescuing . . .<br />  Lady Catherine Keith finds herself plagued by a persistent Sassunach Earl who tries to press her into marriage. His intent is to acquire her holdings on Dunlaider Castle. Having been twice widowed, she does not want another man in her life. She tries to refuse the help that her sister has sent in the form of a battle-scarred warrior. In Sir Marmaduke Strongbow, she sees a proud and fearless warrior that is capable of solving all her problems. How will she react when she finds out that not only has he been sent to protect her lands, but to become her husband?<br />A Warrior sworn to protect . . .<br />  Sir Marmaduke Strongbow is stunned by the request of his closest friend Linnet MacKenzie. She fears for the safety of her sister Catherine and begs him to seek her out, protect her land, and become her husband true. He reluctantly gives in to her request and pledges his loyalty to protect Catherine's land; but, he doubts once she views his scarred image she will willing agree to wed him. Or will she?<br />  Sue-Ellen Welfonder has given Marmaduke the magic that was needed to wrap this memorable character around the hearts of millions. I found this book to be the perfect ending to a character that I have grown to look for in prior novels. It was a joy to read/review such an extremely moving novel. Ms. Welfonder once again has produced another winner!	2003-02-09
US	45818544	R355A235OVMRGB	1881529444	432089989	The Art of Joan Schulze	Books	5	10	10	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Joan Schulze's talent is breathtaking. She seems to magically transform simple textile materials into breathing, talking works of art.<br />  She takes her love for the time-honored tradition of quilting to new, modern-day heights and creates priceless masterpieces. In The Art of Joan Shulze, readers will have the opportunity to view some of her most spectacular works which project such rich, vibrant colors that they seem to leap off the pages.<br />  As an added bonus, the author has included some original stories to enhance her memorable work and essays by well-known artists, celebrating Ms. Schulze's achievements. Fans world-wide should put this book on their to-buy list. It will become a treasured keepsake, worthy of being passed down to future generations.	2003-02-09
US	45818544	R1FTRSF3DWPZKY	0821775286	428893049	After Sundown	Books	5	7	7	N	N	My Shelf... Book Reviewer	The dark gift had been bestowed upon him . . .<br />Edward Ramsey was confused by his existence. Once a well-known vampire hunter, he now found himself one of the undead, that which he once hunted. On one of his nightly outings, he happened upon a young woman intent on ending her life. He made the decision to interfere with her plans and keep in her the world of the living. By doing so, how will it affect his life?<br />He saved her from certain death . . .<br />Kelly Anderson stood on the far edge of the pier, staring down into the still black water below. It looked cold enough to numb her pain. She was convinced that she had nothing to live for. As she jumped in the bottomless pool, she was unprepared to be saved by a guardian angel. When she awoke, she discovered that the man who had saved her was far from an Angel.<br />Amanda Ashley has created an exceptional sequel to accommodate her book Shade of Gray. Edward Ramsey has all the elements that make for an irresistible read. The dark shadows that surround his existence are very appealing. I feel this is one of Ashley's most compelling novels I have read. The talent that she so effortlessly exhibits is why she is one of the most sought after authors in the business. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.	2003-02-09
US	45818544	R1H78UE8U4YYP6	0446690287	386835256	Kiss Off: Poems to Set You Free	Books	5	9	9	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Review	Have you ever picked up a book and felt it was written especially with you in mind? This is the exact feeling I experienced in reading Mary D. Esselman and Elizabeth Ash Velez's Kiss Off: Poems to Set You Free. These ladies masterfully crafted a small book into a mini doctor's manual where I was able to look up what<br />ailed me: broken heart, messed-up family, elusive career- and receive perfect poems to treat my pain.<br />By reading this book, I rediscovered my true self and true direction. The strength and inspiration of this book captures the true essence of life. I feel this book is the stepping-stone a person needs to reach the top of their world. Once you read it, you will find that you keep it close at hand to refer to often when you need a shot of happiness and strength. This book will guide you through those difficult times when life decides to throw you a curve.	2003-01-18
US	45818544	R2PAF1CT7APVPS	1589392884	626487084	No Lady and Her Tramp	Books	4	3	3	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Review	Beth Ann Dixion is Grapevine, Kentucky's local hair stylist. She lives in a run-down trailer park known as President Park with her husband, Billy Ray. When she wins the church bingo grand prize of $1,000, she knows her prayers have been answered - a means to a better life is sure to be just around the corner. Taking her winnings to the nearest computer outlet, she purchases a state-of-the-line computer. While Billy Ray makes his weekly visits to hang out with his drinking buddies at the Amtrak, she fires up her computer and allows her hands to blaze a fiery trail across the keyboard. Her intent is to create the steamiest romance novel under the alias of Bethany Dickerson. She is convinced she can give the local columnist, Shirley Snodgrass, a lesson in literature refinement that is guaranteed to put Grapevine on the map of fame!<br />  The writing talent of Kristie Leigh Maguire and Mark Haeuser has been combined to produce a very delightful and realistic novel. The tone, style, and voice are all original and quite wonderfully intertwined together. What I admire most about these two wonderful authors is they were brave enough to give a realistic look at how modern day romance actually happens. Both of these authors have opposite writing styles, but in reading No Lady and Her Tramp, I was unable to pick out which author was writing each memorable scene. This fact alone shows how talented the duo is in creating a dynamic well-oiled writing team!	2003-01-02
US	45818544	R2D75VGTLPV19Z	0786246014	387910864	Once upon a Secret (Five Star Romance Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	After the death of her parents, Dr. Tori Glenn assumed the responsibility of caring for her younger brother Kevin.  She instilled in him the high educational standards her parents would have expected if they had lived.  She is very proud of his latest accomplishment of winning the statewide contest for young journalists.  His prize included an interview with famous rock star Brad Daniels.  Although a rock star with the reputation \\"Rock Music's Sexiest Bad Boy\\" is not the type of ideal role model she would have picked to influence her brother, she still shows her support by accompanying him to the concert and interview.  Upon meeting Brad, she is surprised that he is nothing like she had envisioned him, his kindness to her and her brother is very heart-warming.<br />Brad Daniels was on top of his career as one of rocks leading male vocalists.  He felt that he had the world at his fingertips-but something was missing that would make his life complete.  When eager fan injuries his hand, and endangers him canceling the concert in steps in Dr. Tori Glenn to the rescue.  Tori is a Chiropractor who has come to his concert with her younger brother, who is schedule to do a backstage interview with him.  Her kind and compassionate nature appeals to his baser senses.  Could she be what his life is lacking?  Will he be able to convince her that his lifestyle and image is nothing like the tabloids have fabricated<br />Catherine Andorka is the type of author you know you are going to enjoy within minutes of reading the first few pages of her latest novel.  It is rare to find an author with talent and ambition to write \\"outside the box\\" themes that bring to light characters that are facing very real and emotional issues.  From the moment I first read the blurb of ONCE UPON A SECRET, I knew this was a novel and author I must track down.  I am pleased that I listened to my six sense, for it has led me to not only a book to treasure, but an author who I feel is one of the most talented in the industry.  Her flawless writing style is to be admired and commended.ed in the industry.  Her flawless writing style is to be admired and commended.	2002-12-05
US	45818544	R23HED3G7LE94Q	084395115X	806353428	The Ghost of Carnal Cove (Candleglow)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Fate has a way of bringing two lost souls together to be joined as one . . .<br />Makenna Lindsey flees London to find a place where she can rebuild her shattered life and mend a heart that has been cruelly broken. Her travels lead her to the mysterious Isle of Wight. There, she finds comfort in nightly strolls along a windy stretch of beach known as Carnal Cove. Its hypnotic voice seems to call out to her, warning her of some unknown evil force. During one of these moonlight expeditions, she meets up with Captain Nicholas Saintjohn, the owner of a massive home that dominates the cliff tops overlooking the cove. Nicholas makes no secret that her presence is not welcome and he tries to discourage her from making future visits. Makenna sees intensity burned into the depths of Nicholas' eyes and the torment that he tries so hard to hide is evident by his actions. She is convinced that she will be the one able to unleash the pain that plagues him. But by doing so, will she be putting her life in jeopardy?<br />Things are not always as they seem . .<br />Captain Nicholas Saintjohn finds himself enchanted by the newcomer, Makenna Lindsey. He is unable to resist her beauty and artistic ability, which she so effortlessly displays. For her own protection, he tries to convince her to leave behind the Isle of Wight and all the hidden secrets it holds. Will he be able to convince her of the dangers that lurk in the shadows?<br />Through Evelyn Rogers' mesmerizing words, the reader is able to become one with THE GHOST OF CARNAL COVE. Few authors bring a story alive as vibrantly as Evelyn Rogers. All of her stories are masterfully crafted, but her Gothic romances always hold a unique quality that other authors are unable to capture. Her marvelous talent as a writer puts her in a category by herself. To say she has a true gift for storytelling is an understatement.	2002-12-01
US	45818544	R1QLF66ZDNMVG0	0060509325	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Desperate times, calls for desperate measures. . .<br />Lady Rowena Belleme's stepbrother, Gilbert d'Ambray, had pledged her hand to the undesirable Lyons of Kirkburough. Being a spirited lass, Rowena refuses to abide by her stepbrother's demands. When Gilbert threatens to kill her mother if she doesn't go through with the marriage, Rowena knows she is powerless to resist him. Reluctantly Rowena agrees to Gilbert's demands. Before the marriage is consummated, Lyons unexpectedly dies. Rowena is overjoyed at her newfound freedom. Her celebration is short lived, however, when Gilbert demands that she become pregnant before Lyon's death is made public. To help her carry out this demand, he kidnaps Lord Warrick de Chaville. For three nights, Rowena carries out the plan with the helpless prisoner. She is finally unable to stand by and watch the inhuman treatment of Warrick; she makes the decision to help him escape.<br />Turnabout is fair play . . .<br />Lord Warrick de Chaville finds himself captive, chained, and at the mercy of Rowena Belleme. As much as he tries to resist her beauty, he is unable to submit to the temptress demands. All the while he is succumbing to her wiles, he is plotting his revenge against all those responsible for his imprisonment. Will the revenge come at a high price?<br />There is probably not a romance reader worldwide who doesn't immediately recognize the name Johanna Lindsey. To say her books are what legends are made of is an understatement. There are very few authors who can even come close to writing with the effortless style she is capable of achieving. To all that have ever experienced her work, they can easily agree her novels are treasured jewels that are to be cherished and closely guarded. I feel privileged to have received this rare opportunity to once again revisit one her of timeless classics. I feel growing up with her novels has given me a greater understanding and appreciation of what true love is made up of. She has taught me that true love can weather any storm that comes in its paththat true love can weather any storm that comes in its path	2002-12-01
US	45818544	R330SA8M8C2GOR	0971388709	933855779	The Mate Map: The Right Tool for Choosing the Right Mate	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Review	To achieve success, a person must have a plan for which direction they need to take. Successful career paths are established each day by taking the time to ask yourself what things make you happy. What is surprising is that time and effort spent in making a career choice is not repeated in another important phase of life--finding the ideal mate. In the United States alone, there are 53 million people between the ages of 20 and 49 who are<br />searching for that someone special or are in a relationship and are trying to decide if the person they are with is the &quot;right one.&quot; I was very happy to find such an informative book as Steven Sacks's The Mate Map: The Right Tool for Choosing the Right Mate. With this book I was able to gain invaluable lessons on how to chart a course to find the perfect mate. The Mate Map provides a structure that has helped me recognize my ideal mate.<br />By reading it, I was able to obtain information that will enable me to make accurate assessments about the character and personality traits I favor and lead me to a far greater objectivity in finding a relationship and ensuring it is a lasting and fulfilling experience. This powerful well-thought-out<br />book is a must read for anyone seeking expert advice on how to find &quot;Mr./Ms. Right&quot;. Do yourself a favor; set sail on an exciting adventure-ensure you make reading The Mate Map a top priority!	2002-10-31
US	45818544	R3CZ8OAPBBCNC4	0887308589	59233487	The Dilbert Principle: A Cubicle's-Eye View of Bosses, Meetings, Management Fads & Other Workplace Afflictions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Review	Anyone who has ever worked in an office has probably heard the name Dilbert mentioned around the coffeepot. This highly popular cartoon character is the 'mascot' of every corporation worldwide. Dilbert is able to combine his many humorous office adventures with some of the toughest management issues, such as downsizing, performance appraisals and team building.<br />Throughout the pages of Scott Adams THE DILBERT PRINCIPLE A CUBICLE'S-EYE VIEW OF BOSSES, MEETINGS, MANAGEMENT FADS &amp; OTHER WORKPLACE AFFLICIATIONS, I found myself relating 'Dilbert&quot; scenes with my own daily office experience. Like millions of other people, I am fully convinced Scott Adams works at my company. How else would he have the insider knowledge to feature Dilbert and his office mates in the same situation I have encountered each workday? For anyone looking for a view at what &quot;real&quot; life<br />is like on the inside, be sure to add this book to you MUST BUY list. This delightful novel would be an excellent Christmas present for anyone 8-80.<br />WARNING: This book is damaging to your funny bone!	2002-10-31
US	45818544	RMGPIRNBIWA0Z	0373196164	212358289	Married To A Marine (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	He is a warrior. She is a healer. They come from entirely opposite places. His mission is to search and destroy, hers, to touch and restore.<br />Justice Wilder had been injured while saving a small child's life. He fears his injury will be the end of his successful military career. He is hibernating on an isolated beach known as Pirates Cove, when an expected visitor, Kelly Hart, shows up with an offer to help him recover from his injury.<br />Kelly is a top-notch physical therapist, and probably will be his best chance in returning to the Marine Corps elite Force Recon, but Justice is wary, due to his past experience with Kelly's older sister, Barbie. The two had married right out of high school and divorced within two years. Will his heart be able to withstand another Hart woman in his life?<br />Twenty-eight year old Kelly Hard had reluctantly agreed to the pleas of Justice Wilder's mother to seek out her son and help him recover from his injury. She is confident of her skills as a physical therapist, but she has had a secret crush on Justice since age thirteen. Will she be able to put feeling aside and concentrate on getting him back in shape? Or will she discover that Justice only sees her as his former wife's plain little<br />sister?<br />All this year, I have been engrossed in the award-winning novels produced by Cathie Linz. Her military books are some of the finest romances I have read this year. Her military-themed romances only get better with each successive one. Married to a Marine has just the right emotional depth that is so often lacking in today's romance novels!	2002-10-31
US	45818544	R2WJZGN6VRUWHN	0446672580	969521590	The American Holistic Health Association Complete Guide to Alternative Medicine	Books	5	14	15	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Each year, millions of consumers visit their family physician. Often this experience leaves them with frustration, fear, and unanswered questions. Their dissatisfaction has led many to seek out other forms of health care.<br />Alternative medicine has been practiced for centuries - and today its acceptance is skyrocketing. The use of alternative medicine allows the consumer the freedom to choose what type of health care they feel would help benefit their illness. They can become experts by reading a book, surfing the Internet, or attending a local seminar.<br />In THE AMERICAN HOLISTIC HEALTH ASSOCIATION COMPLETE GUIDE TO ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE, readers will discover a more in-depth look at the various alternative therapies of Ayurveda, Chinese medicine, naturopathic medicine, homeopathy, mind/body medicine, osteopathic medicine, chiropractor, massage therapy, and bodywork.<br />One of the key elements of this book that I found so fascinating was the use of true-to-life success stories of people who had tried one of these time old methods and found it cured or helped with what ailed them. It even gave me the opportunity to learn the benefits and the cost of each one of the treatments. This book has been a wonderful resource in helping me write my college thesis paper. I feel anyone who is looking for a better understanding of any or all of these alternative therapies will not find a more informative book.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R3MVF2ROKQO0HO	0966612310	661731592	The Inner View, Life Enhancing Perspectives	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	THE INNER VIEW<br />Life Enhancing Perspectives<br />By Donald S. Neviaser<br />Kanevia Books - December 4, 2000<br />ISBN: 096612310 - Paperback<br />Fiction / Self-Help<br />Reviewed by Suzie Housley, MyShelf.Com<br />Buy a Copy<br />Have you ever finished reading a book and knew immediately it had just changed your life? After finishing THE INNER VIEW: LIFE ENHANCING PERSPECTIVES by Donald S. Neviaser, I knew by the warm, tranquil feeling that engulfed my body that I was the proud recipient of something special.<br />THE INNER VIEW: LIFE ENHANCING PERSPECTIVES presents the reader with powerful quotes that can assist anyone in dealing with life's ever-present challenging obstacles. In the small compact size you will find a wealth of information in the 221 pages. Inside you will find a treasure chest full of sayings that focus on being happy, making the most of who you are, success and moving forward, and many worthwhile others. Also, it strives to improve the quality of one's life. More than once, I found myself flagging different passages to refer to when future events occurred. With these thought-filled words, it allowed me to envision all the emotions that it took for the author to create such a masterpiece.<br />Such writing talent as this author so effortlessly exhibits is to be commended. To say this novel comes highly recommended is an understatement.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R2W6L51XUKANR3	0505524791	217651134	The Grotto (Candleglow)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Newly widowed Contessa Caterina Donati suddenly finds she has been set free from the loveless marriage she had been trapped in for many years. She seeks to put a final end to her painful past by fleeing from the mysterious circumstances that are evolving around her husband's untimely death. Her travels take her to Belmare; there she is determined to rebuild her cherished ancestral home. What she doesn't anticipate is the ghostly curse that has been placed on the helpless estate. Roberto Vela is the one man who steps forward and proclaims he will do battle with the evil forces. Will she be able to trust a man with a face like a God and a voice like the Devil?<br />With midnight blue eyes, Roberto Vela's gaze penetrated Caterina 'Kate' Donati. Before him was a stunning young American solely in need of his assistance. By agreeing to come to her aid, will he be placing her life in jeopardy by exposing her to the dark turmoil that surrounds his very existence? Can he take the chance to give love an opportunity to bloom? Or will his haunted past be enough to destroy one so fair and pure?<br />Once again, Ms. Rogers has pulled out all the heavy ammunition and used it to create a beautiful compelling Gothic Romance. As always, her writing talent stands alone in serving to uphold the romance genre. Few authors can only hope they will be able to mimic the talent of Evelyn Rogers so they too will be able to produce a timeless treasure. Every book I read by this much-loved author only strengthens my belief that she is one of the best in the romance industry. For anyone new to romance, do yourself a favor, and begin by reading one of her legendary books. What you will find is an unsuppressed talent that is sure to go down in history!	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R3CI58ED4A4IU0	0373272383	869467966	Love Under Fire (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Two years ago Rowen McQuaid took a bullet that was meant for fellow cop, Jo Jellic. This heroic deed cost him not only his career but also almost his life. He once again finds himself involved with Jo when he arrives at Nicks Landing. Together they will work to solve a suspected case of insurance fraud. Once again, the two find themselves together in another life and dead situation. Will they be able to survive and beat the evil forces that are working against them?<br />Jo Jellic lived in the shadow of her father's memory. He too was a former police officer. She was hell bent on proving his death was not a planned suicide. She is unprepared when her latest case pairs her with former police officer Rowan McQuaid. She still feels her one careless act resulted in costing him the career he loved. Will she ever be able to make amends with the past and living in the future?<br />Fast paced, dramatic action, and bone chilling suspense all can be found in huge proportions in Frances Housden's LOVE UNDER FIRE. Ms. Housden's writing style consists of descriptive passages that will not allow readers to stop until the last page is turned.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R3ISL8MD9VPWSN	0971423008	707165584	On the Road to Happiness: Tales of The Traveler	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	ON THE ROAD TO HAPPINESS . . . TALES OF THE TRAVELER, radiates with fresh motivational knowledge on how to survive life's challenging obstacles. In this convenient pocket size book, you will find a personal guide that will take you on a journey over the bumps, around the potholes, and past the detours each of us face. Woven throughout this story are easy to remember quotes and proverbs that can easily be memorized for future situations.<br />Lauren Hudson's ON THE ROAD TO HAPPINESS . . . TALES OF THE TRAVELER, could not have come at a better time in my life. Having survived a recent auto accident, I have been consumed with doubt, worry, and uncertainty. By reading Ms. Hudson's poetic words of hope and happiness, I immediately felt a calm warm sensation fill my body. Her book has given me the knowledge that no matter how dark the world seems, there will always be light at the end of the tunnel.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R1KIP3JGFS75YA	0961462094	647679720	Common Herbs for Natural Health	Books	5	60	61	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	I was astonished at the vast amount of invaluable information I found in the pages of COMMONS HERBS FOR NATURAL HEALTH (Herbals of Our Foremothers) by Juliette de Bairacli Levy. Readers will be rewarded by a detailed listing of 200 worldwide herbs. You will learn how to find them, store them, and prepare them to help treat many common ailments. Don't be surprised if the recipes contained in the back of the book will have you searching your yard late at night for the intriguing ingredients.<br />This book is a must-read for any herbalist enthusiast, or anyone who has a slight interest in alternative medicine. I can easily see this book being passed on from generation to generation; the information is priceless. After reading this treasure, it fully convinced me to change the topic of my college thesis. I'm happy to say I couldn't have read any better book to start me on the path of learning this ancient tradition.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R3JY96HBDW8RWV	0961462027	348203984	Healing Wise (Wise Woman Herbal)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Review	Upon picking up Susun S. Weed's HEALING WISE (WISE WOMAN HERBAL SERIES) I was amazed to learn the history behind the Wise Woman Tradition. For those of you who may not know, the Wise Woman tradition is the oldest tradition of healing known on Earth. Unfortunately, it is very rarely identified - in fact, many do not call it by its rightful name. It focuses upon a woman-centered tradition of self-love and respect of the earth and all creatures.<br />With accurate and descriptive passages, it took me back to the time of my Grandmother's own healing touch. Many times I have said to myself, if I only had written down all of Grandmother's teachings, oh the wealth of knowledge I would have had today. I'm happy to say this fascinating folklore tradition has not been lost. Susun Weed has done a magnificent job in capturing the very essence of this unique alternative medicine technique.<br />After finishing her book, I knew this author had created something that would be cherished and passed on to future generations.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R33A13K6QFXNII	0373272464	141012826	Behind Enemy Lines (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	She had a life and death decision to make . . .<br />Air Force Captain Annie O'Donnell found herself involved in a dangerous military mission that required her to fly into a war zone to retrieve an elite group of Special Operations personnel. She is unprepared when a warning signal suddenly goes off signaling that the enemy below had engaged missile lock on her aircraft. To stay put and allow the last team member enough time to access the helicopter would mean certain death for all members involved. She makes the painful decision to put the aircraft into motion and sacrifice the life of the lone soldier who was helplessly suspended underneath her helicopter. Racked with guilt and indecision, she silently prays for his death to be quick and painless. Grimly one of the special operations leaders provides a name to the faceless individual -Major Thomas Folly.<br />Her touch made him want to continue living . . .<br />Major Thomas Folly was a prisoner in a dark mass that had consumed his body. The only sensation he was acutely aware of feeling was agonizing pain. Somewhere far away, a soothing voice willed him to live. He knew the soothing hand that caressed his brow must surely belong to an angel. If he willed his eyes to open, would he find that he had died and gone to Heaven?<br />Watch out SuzAnne Brockmann, be warned Lindsey McKenna, newcomer Cindy Dees is on the block and is already commanding attention. It has been years since I felt such a strong sensation about a new voice in the romance industry. With Cindy Dees military background, she has all the ammunition to write one explosive novel. This new author is not to be missed, I predict she will take the romance genre by a tremendous storm!	2002-10-15
US	45818544	RL4U3QETTTWQL	0373226624	992251471	Behind the Veil	Books	5	6	6	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Dr. David Bryson was a scarred recluse who was involved in a horrific boating accident that killed his fianc&eacute;e five years prior. He is rumored to be responsible for the twenty-year serial killing spree that has plagued the citizens of Moriahs Landing. He hides his hideous face from the residents, and makes nightly visits to the town to seek out justice by finding the real killer. On one of his nightly visits Becca Smith memorizes him. There is something familiar about her that commands her to learn more about her existence.<br />Becca Smith makes her living as a seamstress sewing elaborate dresses for the citizens of Moriahs Landing. She is unprepared as one night a voice calls out to her and offers to hire her services. The dark voice is filled with so much sadness and loneliness that it immediately captures her attention. She learns the voice belongs to the owner of the castle on the cliffs, David Bryson. She finds herself immediately intrigued by the man of mystery. She is determined to find out his real motive for hiring her to redecorate his home. By doing so will she is placing herself in the hands of a serial killer?<br />BEHIND THE VEIL is unlike most intrigues you will ever experience. When you think you have figured out how it will end, Ms. Wayne throws a curve ball that will knock your theory clear out the window. I was unprepared at the shocking conclusion, but was very please with the end result. Ms. Wayne gives the readers the best of both worlds - a twenty-year serial murder that demands to be solved, and a beautifully crafted romance that centers on one of my favorite themes (Beauty and the Beast). It takes a very talented and skilled writer to be able to combine two entirely different aspects and create a very memorable novel.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R3QWGMVDQALS3C	0373272391	230575008	Shadowing Shahna (Silhouette Intimate Moments)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Her past had returned to expose her secrets . . .<br />Twenty-eight year old Shahna Reeves lived a very quiet lifestyle in the quaint Hokianga Harbor. She was unprepared at the unexpected arrival of Kier Remington. The circumstances that surrounded their past relationship came flooding back with one look into Kier's memorizing eyes. In her mind she must remind herself that their relationship was a matter of convenience, or was it?<br />He returned with a purpose . . .<br />Kier Remington was a self-made millionaire who was a key player in Australia's business and financial world. After a three-year absence he returned to Hokiango Harbor. His primary intent was to seek out the one woman who had been on his mind since his last encounter. What he will find there will have the power to uproot his entire existence.<br />This is the first Laurey Bright novel I have read, and certainty will not be my last! Her broad descriptive passages enable me to fully appreciate the true meaning that is behind every story. Her masterfully crafted writing style, that she so effortlessly displays, will have readers begging to find more installments of her work. Books such as these make my job as a book reviewer a very rewarding experience.	2002-10-15
US	45818544	R2NEZ8R0DI3E39	0743204700	471518023	An Accidental Woman	Books	5	6	7	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Step into the peaceful valley of Lake Henry. Be blown away by the<br />trials and tribulations that it holds...<br />Poppy Blake's closest friend, Heather Malone, has been arrested. It is up to Poppy to step in and take charge and to provide the support that Heather's family needs. Although confined to a wheelchair as a result of a snowmobile accident, Poppy refuses to let life's hardships stand in her way. Poppy's strength and courage is the foundation that bonds the family together. How will she feel when she learns that the person who has betrayed her best friend is the same person that she has developed feelings for?<br />Secrets have a way of unrevealing, just when you least expect it.  . .<br />Writer Griffin Hughes first met Poppy while doing a news story<br />involving her older sister. He immediately was attracted to the<br />fiercely independent determination that Poppy displayed. How will he ever be able to tell her that, by a slip of a tongue, he is<br />responsible for his closet friend incarnation?<br />From the moment you turn and read the first page in Barbara<br />Delinksy's AN ACCIDENTAL WOMAN, you quickly see that you are<br />experiencing one of the most touching and thought provoking novels in 2002. Always when I select a Barbara Delinsky novel, I<br />mmediately know that I am in for a very rewarding experience. By<br /> reading this book, there is no way you can not back up and read<br /> Heather's prior story. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED . . .	2002-09-30
US	45818544	R2V97YCT7QJUEM	1893896781	144359610	Shadow Image: Image Series Book 3	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	A woman seeking a quieter existence . . .<br />Shelby Cort found that she was a victim caught up in the chaotic lifestyle of a big city police department. Seeking a quieter environment, she accepts a position to be the local Sheriff in the quiet lakefront town of Shadow Bay, Michigan. Shadow Bay<br />was suppose to offer her a peaceful opportunity to gain the solace her soul so desperately needed. Unexpectedly, the local privy digger discovers a series of dead bodies. It is up to Shelby to find the culprit that is responsible for wreaking<br /> havoc on her peaceful little town. She enlists the help of the new Medical Examiner, Ric De Chaux. In Ric she finds an ally and deep down she knows there is so much more to be discovered.<br />A man ready to explore the living . . .<br />Richard De Chaux, had the notorious reputation of being known as le docteur la mort and ex-Paramont for the Undead in France. He has been avoiding human existence for centuries and slowly makes his way back into society by becoming Overlord of the local undead in Shadow Bay. His hidden lifestyle is masked by his position as the local Medical Examiner. When he discovers evidence that links the latest murder victims to one of the undead, he knows he must keep this secret from the local<br />Sheriff, Shelby Cort. In Shelby he sees someone who is a threat to not only his society but also to his heart.<br />With each book I read in this captivating series, I find myself quickly needing more of this extraordinary writer's talent. The author intertwines her own police background to lay the foundation needed to create very realistic elements. Paranormal fans world-wide, be sure to commit the name Jaye Roycraft to memory - she is quickly blazing a fiery trail in the romance industry with her superb writing style.	2002-08-07
US	45818544	R1PS7RMM7C6FVL	0821772813	118961457	Simple Riches (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Apple pie . . .star lit nights . . . butterflies . . .These are the simple riches that make the world go around.<br /> Alexandra 'Alex' Chamberlain was orphaned at an early age.<br /> Her Uncle and Aunt raised her, and she grew up craving the<br /> attention of her guardians. She discovered that the key to<br /> obtaining the attention she craved were through working with<br /> her Uncle. Her job as a Scouter, allowed her to seek out<br /> future building sites for luxury resorts. Unknowingly to her<br /> prey, she would move into the very town that she had pin<br /> pointed out to learn secrets that would almost guarantee she<br /> was successful in her venture. Her latest project was located<br /> in the small quaint town of Restalline, Pennsylvania. A widow<br /> and her son was the only thing that stood in her way from<br /> gaining their prized land. What was to be an easy conquest<br /> was met with resistance and emotion that she had never<br /> counted on feeling.<br /> Dr. Nick Androvich had returned to his hometown of Restalline<br /> with haunting memories and a small son to raise. He had lost<br /> his wife in a Chicago inferno that he felt was partially his<br /> fault. He was intent on trying to pick up the pieces and<br /> rebuild his shattered life. He relished the fact that life<br /> never seemed to change in his loveable home place - no matter<br /> how many years you stayed away. He was determined to make a<br /> new life for both himself and his son.<br /> The forces that brought Nick and Alex together are the ones<br /> that will surely tear one of them apart. Which one of these<br /> strong individuals would win out and accept the change the<br /> other one offers?<br /> This makes the second Mary Campisi novel that I have had the<br /> privilege of reading/reviewing. As in fine wine, her writing<br /> style only gets better with age. This beautiful story will<br /> have you longing to revisit your home place. Her smooth<br /> compelling plot will leave other authors green with envy.<br /> Such flawless writing is to be commended.awless writing is to be commended.	2002-08-07
US	45818544	R3LFBJEJWIRFLP	1893896781	144359610	Shadow Image: Image Series Book 3	Books	5	7	7	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	A woman seeking a quieter existence . . .<br />Shelby Cort found that she was a victim caught up in the chaotic lifestyle of a big city police department. Seeking a quieter environment, she accepts a position to be the local Sheriff in the quiet lakefront town of Shadow Bay, Michigan. Shadow Bay was suppose to offer her a peaceful opportunity to gain the solace her soul so desperately needed. Unexpectedly, the local privy digger discovers a series of dead bodies. It is up to Shelby to find the culprit that is responsible for wreaking havoc on her peaceful little town. She enlists the help of the new Medical Examiner, Ric De Chaux. In Ric she finds an ally and deep down she knows there is so much more to be discovered.<br />A man ready to explore the living . . . <br />Richard De Chaux, had the notorious reputation of being known as le docteur la mort and ex-Paramont for the Undead in France. He has been avoiding human existence for centuries and slowly makes his way back into society by becoming Overlord of the local undead in Shadow Bay. His hidden lifestyle is masked by his position as the local Medical Examiner. When he discovers evidence that links the latest murder victims to one of the undead, he knows he must keep this secret from the local Sheriff, Shelby Cort. In Shelby he sees someone who is a threat to not only his society but also to his heart.<br />With each book I read in this captivating series, I find myself quickly needing more of this extraordinary writer's talent. The author intertwines her own police background to lay the foundation needed to create very realistic elements. Paranormal fans world-wide, be sure to commit the name Jaye Roycraft to memory - she is quickly blazing a fiery trail in the romance industry with her superb writing style.	2002-08-03
US	45818544	R16UPJNPKMADYM	0446611166	765871442	Inter-Office Male	Books	3	1	1	N	N	MyShelf.Com Book Reviewer	The object of our affection is very well out of our reach . . .<br />Walter knew that upon first gazing upon the beautiful image of the Goddess Luna he was completely infatuated. Luna and he both worked for the same company, but she is clueless at the intense feelings he holds for her. What unscrupulous antics will it take to convince her to open her heart up to him?<br />Luna is carefree and not interested in long term commitments. She lives her life going through one adventure after another. She sees Walter has a friend and a confidant. Her restless soul is constantly fighting the growing feelings she has for Walter. She is shocked to discover jealously rocks her world when she finds someone else is trying to win Walter's affection. Is it too late to explore what could have been?<br />As I was reading INTER-OFFICE MALE, I was reminded of a favorite movie WHAT WOMEN WANT. Although this author gives us a front row seat to peer into the thoughts of a man (somewhere ALL women want to go). Women worldwide will appreciate this humorous, true to life romance. For anyone who has ever developed a crush on a co-worker, this is the book you must read!	2002-06-30
US	45818544	R12E9XH6RMI064	0373168861	672602993	Bold And Brave-Hearted (Men Of Station Six) (American Romance, 886)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	[URL] Book Reviewer	Playing with fire could get you burned . . .<br />Kimberly Lyndell thought she had the world at her fingertips when she managed to land a position as television newscaster. To land such a prestigious job almost guaranteed that her career was headed in the upward direction. Unfortunately, all her dreams were cruelly snatched away when an unexpected earthquake struck her new studio. Because it hit at such a rapid pace, she was unable to escape an enormous studio light that came crashing down where she sat. As she lay pinned among the debris and wreckage, an Angel of Mercy appeared in the form of Firefighter Jay Tolliver. Would he have the strength to free her from certain death?<br />Second chances only come once in a lifetime . . .<br />Jay Tolliver never contemplated on finding his secret high school crush lying as a helpless victim from the devastation that was left of an earthquake. He recognized immediately she was injured far more seriously than she realized, but to him she never looked more stunning. After all these years, the spark she ignited in him is still present. Since both of them come from different parts of the track, he knew that to consider such a relationship was foolish. As he freed her from the wreckage and sent her off in an ambulance, he silently said goodbye to something that could never be possible. Days later he once again found himself in another dangerous situation. This one involved a fire at a highly flammable chemical company. In offering his helmet to the person he was rescuing, he found himself unprotected when an explosion propelled him into a world of darkness. The doctors predicted his blindness will only be temporarily, but he feared the worst. When he heard a knock at his door, he was stunned to hear the deep sexy voice of Kimberly Lyndell. He was shocked to hear her confession that she was there to save him.<br />Charlotte Maclay, you have used all the elements that I crave in a heart felt romance. Exceptional is such a small world to use to describe BOLD AND BRAVE -HEARTED. More than once I found myself reaching out and grabbing a Kleenex. Writers such as you are why I proudly declare myself a true romance reader!rld to use to describe BOLD AND BRAVE -HEARTED. More than once I found myself reaching out and grabbing a Kleenex. Writers such as you are why I proudly declare myself a true romance reader!	2002-06-30
US	45818544	R2OZX79PUA56IO	0373764421	435663225	And The Winner Gets...Married!  (Dynasties:  The Connellys) (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Be careful what you wish for, you might just get it . . .<br />Justin Connelly, Vice-President of Marketing for Connelly Corporation, was a member of one of Chicago's prominent families. He had recently been voted as one of the most eligible bachelors in Chicago. He reluctantly gave in to his sister's pleas to participate in a charity auction, where the proceeds would benefit families of slain police officers. He would be auctioned off to the highest bidder; and, his reputation guaranteed that he would generate a high price. As he stepped out onto the stage, immediately surrounded with high bids, he was suddenly fearful about who would 'win' him. He would have liked nothing better than to be back in his office, working late at night along side his attractive and efficient assistant, Kim Lindgren.<br />Dreams have a way of coming true . . .<br />Kimberly 'Kim' Lindgren was alone in life, making her living as the highly organized assistant to Justin Connelly. She secretly harbored romantic fantasies that centered around her sexy Supervisor, but she knew that it was ludicrous to dwell on dreams that could never come true. Justin was a part of the high society class that only dated fashionable models and blue bloods. He would never lower his standard to notice a meek assistant such as herself. When his sister invited her to the charity auction, and persuaded her to out bid any offers on her brother, she was shocked at the feelings that arise. Would it be possible to turn her dream into a reality?<br />Metsy Hingle has an astonishing writing talent that never disappoints. I am constantly amazed at how her books always demand to be read in one sitting. She effortlessly writes with a smooth writing style that sparkles as it is savored. Reading and reviewing her books is always a great pleasure.	2002-06-30
US	45818544	R1IRNGQCXB3HVJ	0970761902	107398558	And I Thought I Was Crazy! Quirks, Idiosyncrasies and Meshugaas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Myshelf.com Book Reviewer	Within minutes of first opening Judy Reiser's AND I THOUGHT I WAS CRAZY! QUIRKS, IDIOSYNCRASIES, AND MESHUGAAS I found myself laughing out loud at the confessions revealed. In this delightful novel, you will find a treasure chest of some of the funniest, strangest, warmest, and touching ideas I have every heard of. What I found that made this book unique was that all the stories are based on true facts collected by the author. Over 2000 interviews were conducted in order to create this book and its sequel.<br />After reading this book, I must admit I felt better knowing other people shared some of my own habits. In fact, in reading some of these ideas, it made me want to go out and give them a try! This book is designed to help make you realize it is perfectly acceptable to do things differently. Readers will find themselves breathing a little easier knowing they are not alone in their belief that they know the correct way to hang toilet paper. Another thing I found fascinating was this book is designed to be read as little or as much as your schedule will allow. You will be glad to hear there is no set age limit in reading this book. Its content will be well received by anyone from the ages of 6-106.<br />Laughter is one of the key elements required to deal with life's everyday struggles. I feel this book is just what the doctor would order to ensure you have a double dose of happiness to add to your daily life.	2002-05-02
US	45818544	R2XJSENSN39EXL	0446610348	847033353	Knight in My Bed	Books	5	7	9	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	When Lady Isolde, Chieftain of the clan MacInnes, learns that her sister Lileas has been murdered, she fears what her death will mean for her clan. Lileas was the wife of Ian, who is a member of the dreaded MacLean clan. It is rumored that Ian and his brother Donall were responsible for her untimely death. Isolde knows her clan will seek bloody revenge, but is no match for the powerful MacLean's. To go against one so strong would result in ultimate destruction. She devices a scheme to achieve peace between the two warring tribes; her plan includes impregnating herself with the seed of Donall the Bold, who is being held prisoner in the Castle Dunmier. She has him brought to her room, chains him to her bed, and plans to seduce him into her arms. To protect herself from falling for the handsome Warrior, she drinks a magic potion that will harden her heard against his alluring sex appeal. Will it be strong enough to outlast the growing feelings that are quickly overtaking her body each passing day?<br />In bringing back the body of Lileas Macinnes, Donall the Bold unwittingly finds himself imprisoned at Castle Dumuir. What he does not know is that he will be used as a pawn to help maintain peace among the clans. He is shocked when he is lead into the bedchamber of Lady Isolde. What sweet tortures does this temptress have in store for him?<br />Just when you think Sue-Ellen Welfonder couldn't get any better; she pulls out of her magic hat another winner in the form of KNIGHT IN MY BED. Readers, be prepared to turn the air conditioner up on high as you seemly melt as you read each hot and steamy passage. In addition to superb love scenes, you will also be rewarded with an intriguing unsolved murder mystery. A novel such as this is not for the faint of heart, but for those that crave excitement in their life!	2002-05-02
US	45818544	RI683XY1SSTHR	1931696918	842708857	No More Secrets, No More Lies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Secrets have a way of revealing what you wished to stay hidden . . .<br />Sydney Morgan has just been given an account that could either make or break her career. She is determined to win GS Enterprises but she is totally unprepared when she discovers that GS's CEO is Grant Sinclair. Her past has come back to haunt her. Grant is the same man that she put out of her life ten years prior .... the same man who broke her heart ... the same man who is the father to her physically challenged son, Brian .... the same man who still sets her heart to racing. Will she have the courage to face Grant and reveal the secret she has kept locked away from him for so many years?<br />Grant Sinclair hasn't seen Sydney Morgan for ten years but she still has that same beauty that had captured his attention the first time his eyes met hers so many years ago. However he is saddened to see that those same eyes are now shadowed with guilt and doubt. What has happened to her? Will he be able to convince her to reveal the secrets that she has kept so well guarded? Will he be able to accept the truth if he does?<br />In NO MORE SECRETS, NO MORE LIES Marie A. Roy does an exceptional job in her development of her characters. It has been a very long time since I found myself growing so close to the book's characters. Her smooth poignant plot will stand up with the best in the romance industry. Books such as this one are hard to put down once read.	2002-05-02
US	45818544	R27T6RUXM7X9ZZ	0505524724	402574196	Sacrament (Candleglow)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Behind every dark tunnel there is a light at the end...<br />Sarah Aston, Lady Clevancy, stumbles upon a gruesome murder scene. There she also finds the mysterious Julien 'Davinoff' as a bystander near the horrific crime scene. His dark enchanting eyes seem to entrance her as she first gazes upon them. Those same mystic eyes follow her thoughts as she continues on her journey to Bath for the season. Once she arrives at Bath she is surprised to see her path once again is to meet with Davinoff. She finds he is able to invoke feelings that are both intriguing and frightening. What secrets does this mysterious man hold? Will she be able to uncover the darkness that surrounds him? Or will she be placing herself in harms way by allowing her self to get close to him?<br />Julien Davinoff is the optimum of all that is dark and unholy. He hides the secret that he walks with the undead as a Vampire. He is unmoved at the acquisitions that suggests he is responsible or the growing numbers of serial murders. Upon meeting Sarah Ashton, he knows she has the power to have him seek out the light that has been denied from him for centuries. Her smile radiates a beam that penetrates his hardened heart. Will it be fair to drag her into the madness that he calls his world?<br />With dark emotional passages, Susan Squires writes a very compelling paranormal romance. Her writing style will not only delight you, it will shock you at what unspeakable limitations she has had her characters face. She has definitely made her mark in the paranormal gene - one that will not easily be forgotten!	2002-05-02
US	45818544	RWFW32EXVW4KB	0595219276	891641382	Love Poems: Feelings and Fantasies	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Myshelf.com Book Reviewer	With spring in the air, love is sure to blossom. In Love Poems: Feelings and Fantasies, Richard W. Carlson, Jr. has captured the true essence of what it takes to fall in love. His remarkable approach along with beautiful illustrated graphics allowed me to actually &quot;see&quot; the different feelings that are shared whenever two people open up their hearts and allow love to enter.<br />What I found so unique about his poetry was his ability to allow me to learn how a child, teenager, and adult all go about different ways to find love. Love is a necessity in everyone's life. Without it, a person's life is never complete. From experience I can tell you finding true and lasting love is not easy. A person will find they will have to kiss many frogs in order to find that one true prince. Reading this book fully convinced me that finding true and lasting love is indeed a reality.	2002-05-02
US	45818544	R3TSUG1G64LDOM	0373226519	657147536	In The Blink Of An Eye (The Taylor Clan)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Myshelf.com Book Reviewer	In the blink of an eye a whole world changes . . . nothing will ever be the same again.<br />When Forensic Expert Mac Taylor decides to work late he is unprepared at the illegal activities that he finds taking place at the police crime lab. There he discovers his lab assistant is destroying crucial crime evidence. He is determined to put an end to this means of sabotage, but he is not quick enough to prevent a lighter being lit in the highly flammable area. The explosion plunges him quickly into a world of complete darkness.<br />Only when you believe things cannot possibly get any worse, the world suddenly shifts and another obstacle arrives in your life to battle.<br />Nurse Julie Dalton recently resigned from her job and sought the comfort of her family to help heal the pain in her heart. Arriving home, she learns a neighborhood friend is in need of her help and services. Mac Taylor was blinded in a horrific explosion that cost one man his life. Circumstantial evidence suggests he is covering up a crime scene. She knows in her heart Mac could not be guilty of such betrayal, she is determined to help prove his innocence. By doing so, she puts her own life in jeopardy.<br />Julie Miller has impressed me with her superb writing talent. IN THE BLINK OF THE EYE is the first of her books I had read, but it surely will not be my last. This Romantic Suspense contained all the elements I have learned to demand from this type of novel. The pages seemed to effortlessly fly by as I helped gather the clues to prove the hero's innocence. This is just the type of book to convert any mystery reader into a romance fan.	2002-04-21
US	45818544	R2U5VUF7JAIVDD	044661078X	938881243	Passing Through Paradise	Books	4	6	7	N	N	...Book Reviewer	One frigid February night, Sandra Winslow and her husband State Senator Victor Winslow went for an evening's drive. Their vehicle was involved in an accident that sent their car hurling over a bridge into an icy cold river. Sandra survived, but her husband's body was never recovered. Evidence in the vehicle suggested his death was the result of foul play. The townspeople of Paradise, Rhode Island were easily convinced Sandra was guilty of killing the much-loved politician. For the past two years, they have dubbed her the Black Widow of Blue Moon and made her existence a living hell. Fed up with the 'hospitality' of the citizens of Paradise, she decides to sell her run down Victorian beach house and move far away. With her home needing major repairs, she decides to hire a contractor to restore it to its original state so that it will sell quicker and generate a hefty profit. Hiring Mike Malloy proves to be an enlightening experience - not only is he skilled with his hands, but he has the tools to fix her broken heart.<br />Mike Malloy is an expert on restoring historic houses. He is the victim of a bitter divorce, and finds himself in desperate need of steady work. Reluctantly he agrees to work for Sandra Winslow, even though her husband was a close friend. He believed the rumors that circulated around town that she was responsible for her husband's 'accidental' death. When the project brings them closer together and he realizes Sandra has been falsely accused, he sets out to prove her innocence. What he uncovers unleashes an awful truth that uproots the entire town. Once the mystery is solved, will it be fair of him to ask Sandra to stay in a town that has so cruelly rejected her?<br />Whenever I pick up a Susan Wigg's novel, I always finish it with the same feeling - total satisfaction. Ms. Wiggs is a master storyteller that, once savored, will keep coming back for more. Her latest release, PASSING THROUGH PARADISE, is highly recommended. Once again she has brought to us characters that will long be remembered.to us characters that will long be remembered.	2002-04-21
US	45818544	R34PCJQBPEEZMC	1893896749	613894054	Afterimage	Books	5	2	3	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	He had the power to grant her life or death . . .<br />Alek 'Drago' Dragovich was known as the l'enforcier, the Anti-God for the Undead. His darkened reputation characterized him as an unmerciful ruler that was the epitome of beauty and unlimited strength. His word alone would be the final deciding factor of whether aberration Marya Jaks lived or died. Upon meeting Marya, he immediately senses the threat she poses to him and the brotherhood. Tradition would have him terminate her existence immediately, but a deeper feeling is able to convince him she deserves life. Would he live to regret his decision?<br />She is an endangerment to his society . . .<br />Gypsy Marya Jaks's entire life had been put on hold in anticipation of the final day when she would learn if she were to have a future. Having been the daughter of a dhampir, she has the cunning ability to detect vampires. Such a skill as this would allow her to become a very successful vampire hunter. When she wakes from a deep slumber and finds the infamous Drago in her bedroom, she fears the end is certainly near. She is stunned when Drago unexpectedly gives her the gift of life. Upon gazing into his blank soulless eyes, she is drawn in by a sadness that is locked deep inside a bottomless depth. What they offer and suggest is both frightening and tantalizing. She knows before her is a man who will either be the death of her body or the salvation of her soul.<br />Jaye Roycraft writes with bone chilling hypnotic words that ultimately demand the reader's full attention. I feel with such writing skills as she so effortlessly exhibits, paranormal writers worldwide should be aware of the magnitude of competition they are to soon face. I feel honored and privilege to have been selected to read and review such a memorable novel. I predict the name Jaye Roycraft will one day become an every day household name.	2002-03-22
US	45818544	R3AMGJ39EESXA4	1589391454	648825751	Help From Above	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Misti Jackson's HELP FROM ABOVE is similar to the well-loved television drama \\"Touched By An Angel.\\"  It contains all the warm heart-felt elements, which will keep readers spellbound until the last page is savored and enjoyed.<br />After the tragic death of his parents George Billington escapes his grief through drugs and alcohol.  Knowing his addiction will eventually lead to his destruction, an angel suddenly appears hoping to be in time to save his soul.<br />Ronald is the angel assigned to help George beat his harmful addictions.  With his holy guidance, he hopes he is not too late to assist him in conquering his addictions and moving forward with his life.<br />Upon meeting George, he quickly realizes his case is far more serious than he alone can handle.  He makes the decision to enlist the help of George's sister, Karen Billington and a trusted priest, Father Timothy Gill.  Together will the three be able to unite and save George from his wicked wayward ways?  Or will it mean the ultimate downfall of them also?<br />HELP FROM ABOVE is powerfully written.  This gripping emotional story presents a realistic glimpse into the sufferings of drug and alcohol abuse.  Readers will walk away feeling as though they witnessed a miracle as the ending dramatically closes.	2002-03-16
US	45818544	RJWDJMNXD3DWA	0515132640	621446321	Runaway Bay	Books	5	4	5	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Jackie Barnett is devastated over the sudden unexpected<br /> breakup with her boyfriend. He carelessly leaves a message on<br /> her answering machine stating he doesn't wish to see her<br /> again or go on their planned trip to St. Sebastian. Jackie<br /> has two choices - to ask for a refund or to go on the trip<br /> alone. Her decision is quickly made for her when she<br /> discovers Farley Phelps and Reade Hunter are both scheduled<br /> to be at the same resort that she has pre-made reservations.<br /> Farley is the one who will make the final decision as to who<br /> is awarded the one million dollar Phelps Grant. Reade is her<br /> number one competition; he will stop at nothing to ensure he<br /> is given a winning slot. Throwing caution to the wind, she<br /> embarks on a journey that will lead her on an unexpected<br /> adventure.<br /> Reade Hunter plans to go to St. Sebastian on the pretense of<br /> finding a suitable mate for his mother. As an added bonus, he<br /> plans to seek out Farley Phelps and convince him why he is<br /> the best candidate for the Phelps Grant. He was unprepared<br /> for the arrival of his quick-witted, razor-tongued, sexy<br /> competitor, Jackie Barnett. Jackie is not what he had<br /> anticipated. He imaged her to be an uptight, straight-laced,<br /> by-the-book researcher. The goddess's body standing before<br /> him was crying out to explore her uncharted territory.<br /> Lisa Hendrix's RUNAWAY BAY is a light, fun read that will<br /> have you laughing out loud. Her delightful fresh approach is<br /> laced with memorable characters, witty dialogue, and tons of<br /> humor. I predict that with all these highly entertaining<br /> elements contained in this book, it will be the best romantic<br /> comedy that I will read in 2002.	2002-02-22
US	45818544	R2MTSB1SURIHHA	0373764162	752683514	Navy Seal Dad (Harlequin Desire)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MyShelf.com Book Reviewer	Lieutenant Commander Pete 'Mac' McKenna's life revolved around being a Navy SEAL. He refused to allow himself to enter into a permanent relationship because he could not put someone he loved through the grief and anxiety that came with loving a SEAL. When a mission resulted in him being wounded, he reluctantly accepted the fact his injuries would probably force him to resign from the Navy. Knowing his career was not going to be a future issue, he sought to rekindle the relationship he left two years prior with Rachel Grant. Would he be able to convince her that their love deserved a second chance?<br />Nurse Rachel Grant heart was broken two years ago when Mac McKenna, the man who held her heart and soul, coldly selected his career over the love she freely offered him. She never revealed to him he had left a lasting reminder -- she had his son. Unexpectedly Mac returned . . . and declared that he wanted her back in his life. Could she risk sacrificing her heart to once again bleed for him?<br />Reading Metsy Hingle's NAVY SEAL DAD was a surefire way to start the New Year off with a bang. Ms. Hingle ingeniously set the stage as she presents memorable dialogue, heartfelt characters, and secondary characters that beg to be revisited in future novels.	2002-02-02
US	45818544	RBCMFY3M5IW6F	0373871244	989872416	Healing Hearts (Hill Creek, Texas Series #4) (Love Inspired #118)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Schoolteacher Tessa Stranridge needs a means of financial support in order to live in Hill Creek. A friend offers her the solution to her predicament of opening up her home to local accident victim, Drake Slater. Her responsibilities would include attending to his needs and teaching him how to read again. Upon meeting Drake, she is surprised to realize how handsome he is. Before her is a man capable of reeking havoc in her calm, ordinary world.<br />Drake Slater was gravely injured when he was thrown from his horse and savagely attacked by a raging bull. He relies upon the assistance of Tessa Stranridge in rebuilding his life. Tessa is able to feed his newly-found, spiritual hunger, with knowledge that has been foreign to him for so long. With her calm, tranquil nature, she is the type of medicine he finds himself craving in order to make a successful recovery.<br />Cheryl Wolverton seems to write with a higher power guiding her pen. Her extensive talent enables the reader to fully appreciate the story as it unfolds. I enjoyed the characters of Tessa and Drake. I found it very memorable that Tessa was able to look past the outward scars that Drake had and concentrate more on healing the inner ones. This book is for anyone that appreciates the treasure that love is capable of providing.	2002-01-05
US	45818544	R30PLQK67YDYKV	0515127868	210393193	To Marry an Irish Rogue (Irish Eyes)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Reporter Tara Brid O'Connell is determined to do a story on rich Irish playboy, Brian Hanrahan. She travels to his hometown of Kilbooly and discovers another fascinating story just waiting to be revealed. At a pub, she learns from the local ladies that there hasn't been a single marriage in the village in the past four years. When she suggests that the ladies cut the men off from all creature comforts, the women readily agree, and chaos immediately transforms the village. How long will the boycott last? And which side will be the winner?<br />Brian Hanrahan lives a carefree life in Kilbooly. As one of Ireland's richest men, he has never wanted for anything. He is stunned when his grandmother threatens to disinherit him if he does not settle down and produce a grandchild. The only candidate that remotely interests him is Tara Brid O'Connell. Her mettlesome suggestions have gotten the entire village into an uproar. Will he be the one to step forward and break the four-year, no marriage tradition?<br />Lisa Hendrix has done a superb job in her creation of \\"To Marry An Irish Rogue\\". I found myself being transported into the mystical fields of Ireland by her broad, descriptive language. Her delightful cast of characters will have readers begging for a sequel. She also adds just enough humor to keep her readers well-entertained.	2002-01-05
US	45818544	RMFQ077DAAPTU	050552208X	66170138	A Darker Dream (Love Spell romance)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Through dark soulless eyes, he claims Rhianna McLeod as his own. By doing so, he saves her the shame and humiliation of being auctioned off by her heartless father. Now she belongs to the mysterious Lord Rayven, a man that is known to live in the shadows of a darkness that only the night can provide for him. Will she be able to erase the pain and loneliness that consumes him? Or will her efforts be met with grave consequences?<br />Rayven is a prisoner doomed to a life of misery. Upon seeing Rhianna, he realizes that she has the ability to bring light into his bleak existence. She, alone, is able to bring him a sense of peace and tranquility, and to blur the memories that haunt the depths of his being. Unfortunately, the bliss he finds in her arms cannot last forever, as within a year he has made a promise to himself to release her and set her free. Doing so could mean a return to the heart of darkness that lies within him, and to the cold unfeeling heart that is capable of destroying the both of them.<br />This is the first vampire novel that I have ever read. Its words called out to me magically, as I skimmed the first paragraph. I was impressed with Ms. Ashley's ability to persuade the reader to accept the vampire existence. I felt myself agonizing over how it would end; I felt Rayven was bound for certain death and destruction. Only an author as talented as Ms. Ashley could move a skeptical reader to feel such intense emotions	2002-01-05
US	45818544	RPFWWIHV2HOTE	0425181995	530089258	Secret of the Wolf (Historical Werewolf Series, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Step into the dark mystical world created in Susan Krinard's SECRET OF THE WOLF. Be carried away by the rich colorful descriptive language, which transports you far into California's picturesque Napa Valley.<br />Johanna Schell is an Angel of Mercy, whose main purpose is to help those in need. With the assistance of her father they founded Def Hafer, a haven where the mentally challenged could seek shelter from the cruel prying eyes of the world. Upon discovering a unconscious mysterious man, she quickly takes him back to Def Hafer to try to heal him. Little does she know what evil consumes the inner soul of Quentin Forster. Nor does she realize the chilling tortures life has inflicted on him. Will she have the power to save him - accept him - love him?<br />Quentin Forster suffers from terrifying spells of amnesia. Seeking out hypnotist Johanna Schell he hopes to discover if these frightening mental lapses are associated with his legendary werewolf blood heritage. Will he have the courage to face and conquer what ails him? Or will he destroy Johanna and everything else he loves in the process?<br />SECRET OF THE WOLF is an exceptional human drama of the highest magnitude. Readers will find themselves lured into this mesmerizing tale of dark obsessions as Johanna and Quentin fight the dark forces for the chance to live in peace and harmony.	2001-11-24
US	45818544	R34MG1KHGWZK61	0446677191	398461009	Secrets of the Signs: Astro-Analyze Your Life	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Review	Renowned Professional Psychic and Spiritual Counselor Stacey Wolf has written a very powerful Astrology 101 manual in SECRETS OF THE SIGNS. With simple language that is easy to understand readers will quickly be able to start using the concepts and apply them to their own daily lives.<br />Astrology is a very powerful tool. If used correctly it enables us to gain a better understanding of who we are, the decisions we need to make, and how to react to different people that enter our lives. In SECRETS OF THE SIGNS readers will find an invaluable reference manual that will guide them in picking supportive friends, finding the perfect soul mate, and getting along with peers. If used correctly, it will help readers avoid potentially negative relationships and learn how to get more out of life. By the time readers finish turning these mesmerizing pages they will find answers which will allow them to be compatible with all personalities.<br />I was fascinated when I discovered the charts were very accurate in predicting certain characteristics my friends and I both had. I found it to be a wonderful new edition to my growing list of astrology books. I feel it will be used time and again to help me discover how to conquer challenges that impact my life. This book is for anyone who is interested in learning about themselves, their motivations, and the way they function in the world.	2001-11-16
US	45818544	R18J5GD5VT6DT4	0970885172	963870469	Overcome Email Overload with Microsoft Outlook  and Outlook: Get Through Your Electronic Mail Faster	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Review	In today's society, the use of email has become standard practice. With this newly developed technology comes the burden of how to manage your email. With the ease of sending and receiving email comes the problem of ensuring you don't spend wasted time viewing obsolete mail.<br />In the pages of Kaitlin Duck Sherwood's OVERCOME EMAIL OVERLOAD WITH MICROSOFT OUTLOOK 2000 AND OUTLOOK 2002: GET THROUGH YOUR ELECTRONIC MAIL FASTER there is hope for the weary email user. From page one, readers will quickly gain the knowledge to help eliminate countless hours spent sorting through email to determine which requires their immediate attention. This book explains all the advanced techniques that are often left out of general computer classes. The easy to follow language and illustrated graphics allow novice users to quickly grasp the many helpful tips and tricks and put them to effective use within minutes.<br />Kaitlin Duck Sherwood's book was helpful in teaching worthwhile techniques which I was able to effectively use in my current occupation. Having worked fifteen years in an office environment email has become the primary means of communication. Often, I have felt overwhelmed with the daily struggle of finding ways to manage hundreds of email messages. Ms. Sherwood's simple and helpful advice has been helpful in allowing me to regain the precious time that has been consumed by email. This book has found a permanent place beside my computer. For anyone who is looking for a way to save time, money, and help relieve stress, this book is a must read.	2001-11-16
US	45818544	R2UDDTXQ2EVDW5	0446306185	436436025	Dark Torment	Books	4	15	16	N	N	She saved his life. She purchased his freedom. Could she win his heart?	She saved his life. She purchased his freedom. Could she win his heart?<br />At the age of twenty-two, Sarah Markham is highly unlikely to receive any offers of marriage because of her plain exterior. She is mortified when she stumbles upon the brutal flogging of convict Dominic Gallaher. Realizing that she alone holds the key to his survival, she ultimately makes the decision to intervene and stop the savage beating. She then enlists the aid of her father to purchase Dominic's freedom.<br />Life has hardened his heart . . . Fate has torn at his soul . . .Can one woman shed light on his dark future?<br />Dominic Gallaher was convicted to serve fifteen years for robbery. A reclusive troublemaker, he finds himself the unlucky recipient of 200 deadly lashes. He is surprised, however, by the plain spinster, Sarah Markham, who spares his life. Having purchased his freedom, she now \\"owns\\" him. Could she be the one person capable of taming the dark demons that have taken hold of his savage heart?<br />Karen Robards' descriptive words flow effortlessly off the pages. With highly enriched passages, smoothly enhanced dialogue, and a superb plot, this story will carry you away to a lush, primitive land. I found myself dreading the last page because I knew it meant that my pleasurable journey had come to an end. This one comes highly recommended -- WARNING: Be prepared to read in one sitting.	2001-11-16
US	45818544	R3CELC2T7WJXYJ	1928973108	281848837	In the Wind's Eye	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Windlass . . . home, peace, and security. These words were what kept Rory 'Sinclair' McGregor alive for the past four years fighting for his beloved Confederacy. Now the war was over - the north had won - it was time to start to rebuild what was left of his shattered life and live once again for the future.  Unfortunately, the battle wasn't over . . . in fact it just had only begun. Expecting to find his beloved home and fianc&eacute;e both anxiously awaiting his return he is stunned to learn all is lost to one evil enemy, Edward Delacroix.<br />Ivonne Boucharde Delacroix had loved Sinclair McGregor all her life. It pained her to see the devastation contained in his eyes. She alone knew she was responsible for putting the hopeless look there when she betrayed his love and trust by marrying another. Now is it her fate she must suffer alone in silence? Will she ever be able to reveal the horrors which forced her into marriage with Edward Delacroix? Circumstances cruelly torn their love apart, is there any hope it will be recovered?<br />Charlotte Boyett-Compo does an astonishing job in her creation of IN THE WIND'S EYE. Readers will be spellbound as she masterfully reveals the exciting plot twists that are contained in every page. This one will leave you guessing right up until the shocking conclusion is revealed. If ever a novel should be made into a television drama IN THE WIND'S EYE defiantly should be considered. Books like this do not come along every day and they are to be treasured and savored for future reading pleasure.	2001-10-03
US	45818544	R109INWAQVKDJ8	0446609625	397950675	Under Suspicion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	He watched her as she made her way across the crowded room, mesmerized by her flaming red hair. She was the one who would end the deadly curse of the lethal dagger - she would be a worthy sacrifice . . .<br />Anna Lundgren had worked years to create the stunning &quot;Mysteries of the Maya&quot; exhibit. The main prized attraction was the &quot;Pocal Dagger&quot;; a priceless jade knife that held a curse of death to any who was brave enough to hold it. When she finds a replica of the knife in her desk drawer, she shrugs it off as a prank: little did she know the next day the replica would be replaced with the real exhibit. Overnight she finds herself entwined in a masterminded crime. Determined to prove her innocence, she turns to the only person who believes her - Detective Gil Garcia. Will he be able to unravel the mystery that surrounds the disappearance?<br />Homicide Detective Gil Garcia responded to what looked to be a normal drug overdose. Further investigation led him to beautiful museum Curator, Anna Lundgren. The evidence of the missing dagger suggests Anna was guilty of the theft. Unfortunately, his instincts told him otherwise. Somehow he had to piece together the puzzling pieces - a missing priceless dagger, a murdered security guard, and a beautiful woman. Will he be able to solve the clues before he has another murder to add to the evidence?<br />Rachel Lee expertly lets readers see through the eyes of a mastermind criminal. This added bonus enhances the high intensity that radiates through this exciting novel. This type of novel is new to this reviewer, but I could feel the emotions Ms. Lee was trying to capture. This one left goose bumps by the time I came to the dramatic conclusion.	2001-10-03
US	45818544	R3RQ6W6AN8F0LU	0373244088	401568409	When I See Your Face : The Windraven Legacy (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1408) (Silhouette 1408)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Twas' the day before Christmas in the quaint town of Wind River, Wyoming. Shannon Bannock had just completed her shift of directing traffic for a local parade. On her way home she realizes she is low on gas, so she decides to stop at a local convenience store. Inside there was a man holding a gun on a helpless store clerk. Her Police Academy training immediately went into full force . . . then there was a loud noise . . . then darkness.<br />Rory Daniels was known as Wind Rivers prize catch. He possessed everything a woman could ever desire: good looks, money, and a successful career. Still he remained single - unable to find a woman who could see past his material worth. One ill-fated night he unwittingly stumbled upon a crime scene. A local officer had been critical wounded. Upon closer examination he is stunned to learn the victim is his neighbor, Shannon Bannock. Will he be the 'Angel of Mercy' who can bring her back to the world of the living?<br />With smooth dialogue, gripping scenes, and emotional challenged characters Laurie Paige has created an arresting novel. Readers who enjoy their plot with tons of tragedy which the end result is triumph will be pleased with this creation.	2001-10-03
US	45818544	R3O7D9DYZDUMW6	0373244282	953525647	Cowgirl Be Mine (Silhouette Special Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Six seconds . . . that is all the time it had taken for Mandy Thomson's life to be turned upside down. The last face she remembered seeing was the man she had left her heart with ten years ago, Jake Miller. Suddenly she is involved in a freak rodeo accident that results in her right leg being amputated. Faced with the painful recovery of trying to adjust to the countless changes her disability presents she is unprepared for her building feelings for Jake. Will she have what it takes to win back her dream of going back to the rodeo? Or will her path lead to something she never anticipated?<br />Jake Miller had loved Mandy Thomson ever since he was nineteen years old. It had been ten years since Mandy walked out of his life by choosing the rodeo over the love he offered her. Learning Mandy will be present at a local rodeo he decides to go and say a last final farewell. He is unprepared to see Mandy involved in a horrific accident. Being by her side as the paramedics rescue her still form from underneath a lifeless bull makes him realize his love still holds strong. Intent on aiding Mandy in her recovery he offers her a safe haven until she is able to cope with her dilemma. Having Mandy under the same roof heightens his awareness for all that he lost. Will he have a second chance at love or will he lose his heart completely to a woman married to the rodeo?<br />Elaine Nichols COWGIRL BE MINE captures readers attention from page one. With descriptive language readers will be able to experience the pain and suffering of the heroine. With elements such as heartwarming, highly emotional and powerfully uplifting you cannot afford to miss out on this one.	2001-09-28
US	45818544	R3HW9R0JQQTJ5Y	0316756059	739835081	Minnie Saves the Day : The Adventures of Minnie	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Hester Merriweather is delighted when her father returns home from a trip with a surprise gift from her Grandmama. Her exceptional gift is a lovely rag doll that resembles Hester. Learning of the history behind the creation of the doll only heightens the love she feels for her treasured companion. Naming the doll Minnie she is unaware of just how &quot;special&quot; Minnie is, nor what she capable of performing.<br />When Hester's mother burns her famous butter pound cake it is up to Minnie and Hester's other forgotten toys to save the day. When Hester falls asleep Minnie comes to life and makes the decision to make another duplicate cake to replace the one that was ruined. Imagine Hester's surprise and joy when she awakens to the tantalizing aromas of a fresh butter pound cake.<br />Children of all ages will be captivated by the magic that radiates from Melodye Benson Rosales's, MINNIE SAVES THE DAY. The beautiful illustrated graphics gives life to the charming cast of descriptive characters. Adults will also benefit by receiving an informative history lesson found in the back of the novel that depicts the hardships people faced during The Great Depression. As an added bonus, owners will receive a delicious butter pound cake recipe that will be cherished and reused for generations to come.	2001-08-31
US	45818544	R38YDRD49TLHKX	0446608297	525967368	Thief of Hearts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Katherine Stone's THIEF OF HEARTS will capture your attention from page one. This heart-rending emotionally packed novel will consume readers.<br />When successful maestro trauma surgeon Patrick Falconer is diagnosed with aplastic anemia he knows his only chance of survival depends on finding a perfectly matched bone marrow donor. The perfect candidate exists in his reclusive twin brother Jesse. There is just one problem, due to a bitter betrayal long ago his pride will not allow him to ask Jesse for the life saving substance.<br />Heart surgeon Caitlin Taylor is determined to do anything to save her best friend Patrick Falconer's life. When she learns Patrick has a twin brother she immediately ventures to the remote Hawaiian cliff top estate of Jesse Falconer. Jesse is completely opposite to the bright and cheerful Patrick. Will she be able to convince Jesse to save Patrick's life? Or will she lose her heart in the process?<br />Jesse Falconer is a mysterious writer of dark erotic thrillers inspired by the pain of his past. He is unprepared when Dr. Caitlin Taylor arrives at his home seeking his help to save his brother. Bitter memories flood Jesse whenever he thinks of Patrick. Will he be able to put the past behind him and be able to give the precious gift that he alone possesses?<br />Katherine Stone writes a deeply poignant tale. It is a compelling story, in which siblings deal with their own personal individual issues. Caitlin is such a strong focused woman who is able to repair the shattered hearts and souls of two of the most important people in her life. Readers will not walk away from this one dry eyed. It should be savored with a full box of Kleenex close at hand.	2001-08-31
US	45818544	R1V111NMRRUORZ	0515131555	472899476	Night Shadow	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Laura Renken takes the high seas by storm with her latest captivating novel Night Shadow. Readers will be held prisoner by this fast paced action packed adventure.<br />Pulled from a watery grave, Marcus Ryan Drake finds himself a prisoner on a doomed Spanish vessel. A fierce storm threatens to capsize the helpless ship. When the captain is swept overboard the owner Liandra seeks out his assistance to help bring the ship under control. Marcus is quickly drawn to the exquisite features of the mysterious owner. He is unaware of what deadly secrets she is keeping from him. At what price will he have to pay in order to learn Liandra's true identity?<br />Maria Liandra Espinosa Y Ramirez, proud daughter to Spain, had never been reduced to begging. When she finds herself in a life threatening situation she reluctantly asks for help from a notorious pirate Marcus Drake. She promises his freedom if he is able to save her ship and family from the ravaging storm, which threatens their lives. Marcus and his swashbuckler crew is unaware she is the sister to the deadly pirate hunter El Condor. When the truth is revealed at what cost will it mean to Marcus?<br />Laura Renken is one of romances finest gems. Readers who enjoy their romances with a sea breeze, sizzling passion, and rapier sharp dialogue will savor this masterpiece.	2001-08-31
US	45818544	R1C95Q7R9BOXQV	0843948809	762714147	The Loner (Secret Fires)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	In Evelyn Roger's THE LONER, readers will find a highly descriptive tale, which will quickly transport them back to the exciting life and times that only existed in the Old West. This poignant tale is overflowing with sizzling excitement, passion, and turmoil and will remain in your memory long after you turn the last page. As his name suggests, Stone McBride's heart has been hardened against the cruel injustices fate has unmercifully dealt to him. Living his life as a gambler, he is unprepared when word arrives informing him his father is on his deathbed, and has summoned for him to return to the Circle M to claim his inheritance. To ignore his father's request, would force him to forfeit his share of the ranch to his resentful brother, sister, and manipulative stepmother. Upon his return to the town of Sidewinder, he is unprepared to see his former fianc&eacute;e, Annie Chapin. Will he be able to live with himself knowing he alone caused the pain which is present in her eyes?<br />Four years ago, Annabelle `Annie' Chapin, gave her heart and soul to Stone McBride. What she received in return was enough heartache to last a lifetime. Still suffering from her last encounter with Stone, she is shocked to learn she still has feelings for the man who cruelly broke her heart. Will she have the power this time to chisel away the hard exterior surrounding his cold heart? Evelyn Rogers masterfully crafts stories where the characters are so real they seem to leap off the pages. Stone and Annie are two memorable characters, who finally realize when they are able to trust in the power of love as only it alone would be able to heal and erase the pain of their past.	2001-08-29
US	45818544	R2PRBPVR0MEVC9	0373271484	945597834	In Close Quarters	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Book Reviewer For Myshelf.Com	Passionate, intriguing, heart stopping: do any of these words capture your attention? If so, I invite you to savor the opportunity to experience Candace Irwin's IN CLOSE QUARTERS. Through an anonymous note, Navy Doctor, Lieutenant Karin Scott learns of missing drugs. Further investigation reveals the mysterious note is not a hoax, but a major clue to a lethal narcotics operation, which is taking place at the San Diego Navel Hospital. Fearing this knowledge could endanger her life and career, she contacts a close friend who works for the DEA. She is stunned to learn her friend is off on his honeymoon and sent Special Agent T.J. Vasquez in his absence. Six months has past since her last encounter with T.J., who at one time she hoped to form a relationship. Learning the truth of T.J.'s reputation, as a well-known playboy and a womanizer, she abruptly ends her pursuit before it had a chance to develop. Now she must entrust her life to this fearless warrior, but is it her heart that risks the most endangerment? Special Agent Tomas Juan `T.J.' Vasquez has counted the days since he last saw Karin Scott. Karin's absence left a hole in his heart, which refuses to be filled. When he learns she is in grave danger, he rushes to her side to provide the protection she needs. Soon they discover their dangerous undercover mission is bound to land them in close quarters, will Karin be able to resist the urge to go under the covers with T.J.? Candace Irwin has developed a fast paced novel, which will be a forceful rival against any of the best writers in military romances. She has created two dynamic characters, as well as a gripping tale full of tension and suspense, and added just enough passion to leave one breathless!	2001-08-29
US	45818544	R2HPQ914YYD47T	0971183805	840989466	Desert Triangle: Anything Can Happen in Las Vegas	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sizzles As You Turn the Pages	Kristie Leigh Maguire's DESERT TRIANGLE is a wonderful book which explores the possibility of answering the question What if...  From the beginning of time woman has been presented with the temptation to sample forbidden fruit.  In Kristie Leigh Maguire's DESERT TRIANGLE the fruit comes in the form of a sexy supervisor.<br />James 'Jim' McGregor transferred from Wyoming to assume the position of Manager of the Public Relations and Administration Department.  With many ideas on how he can change and improve the Public Relations department he is unprepared for the immediate attraction he feels toward his Secretary/Administration Supervisor, Marcie.  Knowing it is against company policy to make his feelings known, he is torn whenever Marcie is present.  Will he be able to resist the urge to tell Marcie his true feelings?<br />Marcie, newly promoted to the position of Supervisor of Administration, finds herself instantly lost in the eyes of her newly appointed supervisor, Jim McGregor.  Although she is very happy in her marriage, she cannot help herself from allowing her mind to wonder to forbidden thoughts and fantasies concerning Jim.  Will she act out her fantasies and seek to make them a reality?  Kristie Leigh Maguire does an excellent job in maintaining contact between the main and secondary characters.  The office setting is a great realistic choice readers can readily adopt.  DESERT TRIANGLE is a beautifully constructed ultra-sensual romance which will have you reaching for the ice water.  It is just the type of read everyone needs to experience in order to start off the hot summer months ahead.	2001-08-11
US	45818544	RCQTCV9W8ETAD	0971183805	840989466	Desert Triangle: Anything Can Happen in Las Vegas	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Sizzles With Every Flip of the Page	Kristie Leigh Maguire DESERT TRIANGLE is a wonderful book which explores the possibility of answering the question AWhat if...  From the beginning of time woman has been presented with the temptation to sample forbidden fruit.  In Kristie Leigh Maguire's DESERT TRIANGLE the fruit comes in the form of a sexy supervisor.  <br />James \\"Jim\\" McGregor transferred from Wyoming to assume the position of Manager of the Public Relations and Administration Department.  With many ideas on how he can change and improve the Public Relations department he is unprepared for the immediate attraction he feels toward his Secretary/Administration Supervisor, Marcie.  Knowing it is against company policy to make his feelings known, he is torn whenever Marcie is present.  Will he be able to resist the urge to tell Marcie his true feelings?  <br />Marcie, newly promoted to the position of Supervisor of Administration, finds herself instantly lost in the eyes of her newly appointed supervisor, Jim McGregor.  Although she is very happy in her marriage, she cannot help herself from allowing her mind to wonder to forbidden thoughts and fantasies concerning Jim.  Will she act out her fantasies and seek to make them a reality?       Kristie Leigh Maguire does an excellent job in maintaining contact between the main and secondary characters.  The office setting is a great realistic choice readers can readily adopt.  DESERT TRIANGLE is a beautifully constructed ultra-sensual romance which will have you reaching for the ice water.  It is just the type of read everyone needs to experience in order to start off the hot summer months ahead. <br />Reviewed by... Book Reviewer April 2001	2001-08-10
US	45818544	RZZNROCO91CEV	1588510700	603511099	Threshold of Consciousness	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Joe Vojt's THRESHOLD OF CONSCIOUSNESS is a remarkable realistic journey into the mind of a successful Quality Manager who has experience a tragic loss. This powerful, gripping, emotional read will show how one man survived and coped when death unexpectedly entered into his life.<br />Clay Zerner is devastated over the loss of his beloved wife Renee. He finds himself wondering aimlessly without any purpose in trying to go on with his shattered life. He throws himself into his job and tries to solve the financial difficulties his company is currently facing. He is unprepared when he meets up with Dawn, a young inspiring artist. In Dawn he sees a way to accept and move forward with his life. With Dawn's soothing comforting touch, will he have the courage to put the past to rest and live for the future?<br />Joe Vojt does an excellent job in allowing readers to experience the pain, suffering, and difficulties of the main character Clay. With an outstanding cast of secondary characters, smoothly created plot and dialogue, THRESHOLD OF CONSCIOUSNESS is not to be missed.	2001-08-06
US	45818544	R1JY9QPRPESOKN	0373763611	637224201	Taming The Beast	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Richard Blackthorne is a bitter, desolate man who has locked himself away from the world in a dreary tower he calls home. His chiseled features are scarred, as a result of performing a heroic deed four years ago. Upon his former wife's death, he is shocked to learn he has a four year old daughter. Knowing his hideous disfigurement will prevent him from providing the close loving care his daughter will require he reluctantly decides to hire a nanny. He never dreamed the nanny would come in the form of a green-eyed goddess, Laura Cambridge.<br />Former beauty queen Laura Cambridge is seeking escape from a broken heart. She accepts a nanny position to serve Richard Blackthorne's lonely daughter. Richard is rumored to be a hulking recluse, but instead she finds a man of passion, mystery, and intrigue. Will she be able to convince him that his scars are badges of courage? Will her love be enough to set his tortured soul free - the beast rescued by the beauty and rewarded with her heart?<br />Amy J. Fetzer does an exquisite job in creating this enchanting novel. Laura and Richard each compliment one another because they both fully understand beauty is only skin deep. In the fashion of the much loved 'Jane Eyre' readers will discover an emotional modern day 'Beauty and the Beast' tale. So memorizing unforgettable it will leave you craving for more.	2001-08-04
US	45818544	R34AN9CZ1B33Q2	0967846900	224220229	Duplicity	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Toni Lee's DUPLICITY is like a mini James Bond action packed adventure. The only difference is the hero is a strong sexy African-American who knows how to solve a mystery and have villains begging for mercy.<br />FBI agent Clinton Creech felt his world was over the night his wife and son tragically die in an automobile accident. To help overcome grief and misery he leaves the source of his painful agony and sets out to become a world traveler. When his mother frantically contacts him and reveals her alarming psychic prediction concerning her eldest son Will, he knows it is up to him to calm her fears by seeking out Wills location. He is unaware this adventure will lead him to cold-blooded killer Saa'iqa Mastoora.<br />Saa'iqa Mastoora is like a spider leading her prey to her deadly web. Will Creech, an expert thief, unwittingly falls for her cleverly laid trap. She is unaware the murder of Will Creech will bring another Creech member, Clinton. Clinton is much more cunning than his brother. Will he be able to piece together the clues of his brother's disappearance before the deadly spider captures him?<br />Toni Lee does an outstanding job in her creation of DUPLICITY. The suspense runs high and the descriptive scenes will have readers visiting Washington D.C, Kenya, and Morocco. Mystery readers can appreciate this edge of the seat read which will have you guessing right up until the dramatic end.	2001-08-04
US	45818544	RVBKSQA4UJ8HU	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Myshelf.Com Book Reviewer	Teresa Medeiro's THE BRIDE AND THE BEAST is a rich tapestry overflowing with emotional drama.  Readers will be spellbound and left guessing right up until the end as the climax slowly unravels its memorizing tale.<br />Known only as Dragon, a fearless creature set on reeking vengeance on the helpless townspeople of Ballybliss.  He ruthlessly demands an unrealistic sum of one thousand pounds, the citizens known such a high price could not be provided.  They offer the only alternative equivalent to the sum, Gwendolyn Wilder, a well-known virgin.  Surprised at the gift the townspeople offer, he is captivated by the spirit and beauty Gwendolyn exhibits.  Will she have the power to conquer his lair, his chamber, his bed?<br />Gwendolyn Wilder lost her heart and the love her life tragically fifteen years ago.  Now her life consists of caring for an insane father and three haphazard sisters.  When the town forces her to sacrifice her life to save them from destruction, she tries to escape.  Unfortunately, she is captured and delivered to Castle Weyrcraig, known as the Dragons Lair.  Dragon refuses to reveal his mysterious face, and communicates through a smoky voice, seductive touch, and a ravishing kiss.  Will she have the courage to slay the Dragon and capture his heart?<br />THE BRIDE AND THE BEAST is deftly plotted and beautifully written.  Readers will find it an engrossing tale, with a delightful cast of characters.  It will long be remembered and revisited many times to come.	2001-07-04
US	45818544	R2RNJ7PSDTT50X	0373242743	586434968	Hunter's Pride (Morgan's Mercenaries:The Hunter) (Silhouette Special Edition, 1274)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	[a book review]	Lindsay McKenna HUNTER&#8217;S PRIDE is book three of Morgan's Mercenaries: The Hunter's Series. It is a fast paced action packed novel that will have you biting your nails and keep you glued to the edge of your seat waiting to see how it ends.<br />Devlin Hunter, his mission is to stop an international terrorist group in dropping anthrax over a major city. This assignment it will require him to seek out an Ex-Mercenary, Kulani Dawson, whose inside knowledge is crucial to his mission. Confident in his looks and charm he sees Kulani as an easy target from which to gain the information he needs. His first encounter with Kulani leaves him stunned, before him stands a woman warrior capable of taming his loner heart.<br />When a tragic climbing accident results in the loss of her fianc&eacute;, Kulani Dawson abruptly quits her duties as a Mercenary and returns to her hometown - Kauai, Hawaii. She rebuilds her shattered life by running a touring agency. On one of her tours she becomes drawn to one man, Devlin Hunter. She is later devastated to learn his motives in seeking her service. She knows she is Devlin&#8217;s only hope in completing this mission and coming out of it alive. Will she be able to set aside past fears to help the one man who holds her heart?<br />Lindsay McKenna&#8217;s Mercenaries books remind me of mini James Bond movies. They provide you with so much action and intrigue, it will leave you craving for more. As an added bonus each one in the series can be read as a stand-alone novel. As a former  Geology student, her description of the Hawaiian volcanoes was breath taking. She really has done all of her homework and went all out on research for this book.	2001-05-20
US	45818544	R2X8Z4FS7GH1F5	037324357X	200649566	A Man Alone (Morgans Mercenaries: Maverick Hearts, Silhouette Special Edition, 1357)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Book Reviewer for Myshelf.Com (http://www.myshelf.com)	Captain Thane Hamilton is sent with five men to Bolivia to rescue the fourteen-year-old daughter of a US Senator. Tragically, he is wounded when he tries to stop a rocket launcher from aiming its deadly missile at an approaching Apache helicopter.  When he awakes, he is shocked to learn he was the only member that survived.  Grieving for his lost comrades, he also finds he is fighting to save his leg from a likely amputation. His only chance of saving his leg is to be transferred to his hometown Sedona, AZ where he will have to face the unfinished business he left behind when he joined the Marine Corp.  Will he have the courage to return, face and conquer them?<br />When Paige Black learns her newest patient is Thane Hamilton, she is thrilled of the opportunity to help Thane get back on his feet. Secretly she has always had a crush on Thane ever since they first met in high school. What she doesn't anticipate is the conflict that surrounds Thane and his mother.  She hopes not only to help Thane physically but also to help him mentally put the past behind him.  Her greatest fear is once Thane is recovered he will return to his military career and leave the past and her far behind.<br />A MAN ALONE started with a fast-moving action packed novel I have grown to expect from Lindsay McKenna. Unfortunately, once the hero was wounded, the story started to slow down considerably.  The heroine was portrayed as a wonderful strong woman determined to help heal the man she loved.  Although this book was somewhat of a disappointment, it will not detour me on my quest to seek out and read other Mercenaries Series books.	2001-05-20
US	45818544	R2OGMNBN69Q4HO	0843944161	431742718	The Mask	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Book Reviewer for ....	Donna Lee Poff&#8217;s THE MASK is a wonderful example of a beautifully constructed Beauty and the Beast tale. From page one the reader will be totally mesmerized by the magically created cast of characters.<br />Galen Tarrant, Lord of Rosethorn, returns from the Crusades after an eleven-year absence to reclaim his land. Having been captured and savagely tortured by an archenemy, he now hides half of his face behind a mask. On a late night outing he happens upon Anne of Thornberry, the carpenter&#8217;s daughter. He is enchanted by this dainty \\"wood elf\\" who sits in the forest, with not a care in the world. Her innocence gives him the strength to once again trust in mankind. Her zest for life will shed light on his dark, tortured soul.<br />Anne of Thornberry, a fresh-faced village girl, is naive to the evils in which the world contains. On a fateful moonlit night she meets with Galen Tarrant, a dark, mysterious stranger. In her eyes she sees Galen as being perfect in every way possible. Her greatest challenge will be to convince Galen he is not the Beast he is convinced he has become. Little does she know danger looms in the shadows. A madman is determined to reek havoc once again, and finish the vengeance he once started.<br />THE MASK is a much treasured book. Its value is priceless in my library. It is one of those books, which can be read a thousand times over, and each time find something new and exciting. A word of caution - have plenty of Kleenex on hand when you experience it for the first time. Being so close to the characters, you will feel their pain and suffering as it enfolds before your eyes.	2001-05-20
US	45818544	R34B94L5YFWZHB	0505524074	82811022	Devil in the Dark (Candleglow)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Book Reviewer for Myshelf	Evelyn Rogers DEVIL IN THE DARK can be compared to an artist with a brush. She paints a masterpiece with her broad, descriptive writing talent. It actually enables the reader to see each scene as it unfolds right before their very eyes. A very powerful Gothic romance which has all the elements to compete against other classic, well-known Gothic legends.<br />Gideon Blackthorne, Duke of Ravenswood, is a man of dark mystery. His eyes reveal the injustices life has forced him to endure. Nicknamed by townspeople as the \\"Devil Duke,\\" he lives up to that name by taking midnight rides to escape his tormented soul. On one of his haphazard rides he meets his new neighbor, Lucinda Fairfax. In her he sees the one person who can save his soul from the demons which plague his body.<br />Lucinda Fairfax, abandoned by her father at the young age of five, seeks to claim her inheritance in the estate of Craven Manor. Leaving her New York home, she arrives in North Yorkshire, England where she is nearly run over by a wild horseman, Gideon Blackthorne. In Gideon's eyes and manner she sees a man which is full of secrets and so very deserving of love. Her goal is to unlock his secrets and learn of the real man trapped behind the cloak of darkness, which shadows his every movement.<br />Gideon and Lucinda who both having lost so much at very young ages formed an immediate emotional bond. Lucinda attraction to Gideon stems from his dark and elusive appearance. Gideon is heartened by Lucinda's bravery in facing obstacles which seem to haunt her at every corner. Together they create magic which will enable them to overcome the loneliness that has plagued each other their entire lives.	2001-05-20
US	45818544	R2BNJU301Y832S	1582006164	102333196	Golden Deeds and Lovers [3 1/2 Diskette, HTML]	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Book Reviewer	Marty Voght GOLDEN DEEDS AND LOVERS is a beautiful orchestrated novel. Its musical words will quickly absorb its way into the reader&#8217;s heart.<br />Arthur Lyndered, newly titled Baron Sanvrain, tragically loses his arm fighting in the war against Spain. Returning home, he readily accepts an invitation to the home of a childhood friend, Lady Susan Carwell. His intent is to win the hand of her lovely daughter, Charlotte. Charlotte unexpected, carefree nature quickly convinces Arthur his pursuit of marriage is useless. Miraculously, the comfort he seeks can only be found in Susan&#8217;s soothing touch. How can a man who is not complete in body or soul ever hope to compete against such a strong and powerful love?<br />Lady Susan Carwell, newly widowed, is convinced she will never find love like the one she shared with her former husband. She is shocked to realize her heart quickens whenever Arthur Lyndered is near. Keeping her feelings well contained; she is convinced she can never reveal her hearts longing. It would be unthinkable to have feelings for her daughters&#8217; intended.<br />Arthur and Susan have both experienced unspeakable hardships, it is only fitting they experience a happy ending. The tender way in which Susan convinces Arthur to view his disability is very memorable. Overall, the book is a smooth and tender read, which will not only appeal to the Regency fan but also to any historical reader. I can easily see this book being made into a sequel or movie.	2001-05-20
US	45818544	R1Y437OYWWZ8TL	0373709110	909929105	A Man Like Mac	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Book Reviewer for Myshelf.Com	Fay Robinson's debut novel A MAN LIKE MAC is a true example of an author who knows how to involve her readers. The character that she creates leaves you feeling as if you are experiencing the tragedy life has dealt each of them. For anyone lucky enough to read this book it will leave you with a sense of satisfaction to know you have experienced something special.<br />Keely Wilson, a successful Olympic runner, is involved in accident which doctors predict will end her Olympic career. Refusing to accept the doctor's grim diagnose she turns to her former coach, John &quot;Mac&quot; McCandless. She believes Mac will provide her the rehabilitation she needs to get her back on track for the Olympic gold. In finding Mac she is devastated to learn he also has been involved in an accident and is confined to a wheelchair.<br />Mac McCandless has always held a secret infatuation with his once young track star Keely Wilson. Delighted to be given the opportunity to help Keely recover from her injuries he is unprepared for the reaction she has when she learns of his disability. Reviewing the medical records, he finds there is no hope for her to have a complete recovery. Now the challenge he is faced with is (1) to get Keely to accept her limitations, and (2) to get Keely to accept him as a man.<br />This book illustrates the true meaning of love and romance as well as to the phrase &quot;Love Conquers All.&quot; Be warned, the tears and laughter are sure to flow once you open the first page of this book. Not only is the romance wonderful, it also provides insight about the challenges the disabled face on a daily basis.	2001-03-03
US	45818544	R37K3PL1DN202B	0373709617	529362957	Coming Home to You (Harlequin Superromance No. 961)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Book Reviewer for Myshelf.Com	Fay Robinson is famous for creating a story that will play with her readers' emotions. COMING HOME TO YOU is no exception.  This book will quickly consume the reader and will set them on an emotional roller coaster ride. As an added bonus, this book is not only for romance readers, it provides a mystery that will keep any mystery reader guessing right until the very end.<br />World famous author Kathryn Morgan has idolized James Hayes, singer-songwriter, since the young age of nineteen. She credits James for believing in her abilities to succeed in life. Unfortunately her idol's life ended tragically in a plane crash. As a lasting tribute she wants to honor him by writing his autobiography. There is just one problem, no one from James family will grant her an interview. In a final effort to save her book she seeks out Bret Hayes, James mysterious brother. She feels he knows secrets that will help ensure her book is a success.<br />Bret Hayes leads a different life than his famous brother he simple wants to live a peacefully and breed horses on his Alabama farm. He is unprepared for Kathryn Morgan entrance into his life. Little does he know when he finds a woman trapped in his tree by his faithful dog Sallie that she will have the power to turn his entire life upside down.<br />With a cleverly crafted cast of characters and a story that will keep you guessing COMING HOME TO YOU is a must read. I predict it will be one of the best reads of the year 2001.	2001-03-03
US	45818544	R3F0S8WW8GEKED	0373243766	75692339	Man With A Mission (Morgans Mercenaries: Maverick Hearts) (Special Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Book Reviewer for Myshelf.Com	Lindsey McKenna's A MAN WITH A MISSION is one fast and exciting novel. It provides the reader with a rich description of the mysterious land of Peru.<br />Captain Jake Travers has learned his sister has been captured by notorious drug dealers who are holding her hostage in the dark jungles of Peru. He seeks the aid of a special operations force and is shocked to discover he will be required to work with a female Apache helicopter pilot, Lieutenant Ana Cortina. He is unprepared in his first meeting with Ana, not only is she highly trained, she is also beautiful.<br />Lieutenant Ana Cortina, born and raised in Peru, joined the army to help rid her country of the drug activities which plagued her country. She is determined to help return it to the once safe environment she remembers as a child. Accepting a special operations mission to work with Captain Jake Travers, she finds herself forced to prove her skills. Unexpectedly she also finds herself wanting to give her heart to Jake. She realizes that pursuing  this love is fruitless because once Jake finds his sister he will return to North America, or will he?<br />Ana and Jake are both portrayed as strong characters. Being on an equal level it is hard for either of them to admit their true feelings. Both share a common tragic experience of losing the loves of their life. Their loss and common careers enhance the building foundation of their relationship. This is the first Heart of Mercenaries series I have read. I was very impressed and look forward to reviewing the other stories in the series.	2001-03-03
US	45818544	R2VN926BOI5NWZ	0373168357	419510759	Man Behind the Voice (Harlequin American Romance, No. 835)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Myshelf.Com Reviewer	This is the first novel I have read by Lisa Bingham, but surely will not be my last!  This one book opened my eyes to what a wonderful author I have been missing out on, and to look forward to any future works.<br />Up and coming artist Eleanor Rapport finds herself blinded by a car crash on an icy winter night.  Feeling her career being snatched away , she finds herself retreating from her former likes and interests. Little does she know the book interrupter she hires, Jack MacAllister, is the same person who was responsible for accidentally crashing into her vehicle six months ago on that cold, icy night.<br />Jack finds himself haunted by the memory of the tragic night and knows He must return to check on Eleanor's recovery.  He is shocked to learn Eleanor not only has not recovered from her blindness, but as an added surprise she is pregnant.  Determined to be her Knight in Shining Armor, he takes it upon himself to get Eleanor interested in her former art career. Keeping his identity a secret; he never dreamed he would end up falling in love with Eleanor. How will she feel about Jack when the truth comes out and she finds Jack is part of the reason for the obstacles she now faces?<br />This is a fast moving emotional novel, one that portrays strong heart Catching characters and one in which you will become  wrapped up in a love that warms the heart.	2001-02-02
US	45818544	R2K7ZAWRZE472S	0515129844	282620589	My Lord Pirate (Seduction Romance)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Myshelf.Com Reviewer	Laura Renken's My Lord Pirate is a truly an award winning novel. Fast moving and full of twists and turns, it will leave you turning the pages and staying on edge right until the very end.<br />Talon Drake is a man determined to seek vengeance against the Welles family who falsely accused his family of treason.  He seeks revenge in  plotting to abduct Arabella, the bride of William Welles stepson Harrison Kendrick. However when his crew mistakenly kidnaps the wrong woman and takes Regan Welles, Arabella's cousin and Harrison's stepsister, the adventure begins.<br />  Reagan is horrified to learn her abductor is none other than Talon Drake, the man she believes had her parents killed.  During her captivity Reagan leans the real truth about what happened and discovers a treasure in Talen's heart o f gold.<br />  MY LORD PIRATE will quickly absorb the reader into the story.  They will discover two characters who have suffered not only physical but mental hardships throughout their lives. Talon and Regan are very deserving of the magic that love can offer them. I found myself hating to see the end of the these wonderfully  memorable characters in this enchanting novel.	2001-02-02
US	45818544	R27C8LJQ1UIFWO	0515111163	321473014	Summer Magic	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Myshelf.Com Reviewer	If you are looking for a book to chase away the winter blues then look into reading Summer Magic.  I found four enjoyable stories by four remarkable authors.  What I found so unique about this anthology is the originality of the four stories.  All stories had one goal in mind that true love shall conquer all.  Usually anthology's tend to only feature three authors, but with Summer Magic you get the added bonus of a fourth well known author.  Each story is a unique work of art.  They take you to settings far removed from one another.  Each story can be read in one sitting, this is an added bonus for anyone pressed for time.  Pamela Morsi, Jeane Anne Caldwell, Ann Carberry, and Karen Lockwood should stand up and take a bow, because they have wrote a master piece which soon will not be forgotten.<br />MAKING HAY Pamela Morsi Shy Vassar Muldrew and Lessy Green had become engaged.  They were the most conventional citizens who looked forward to the most ordinary lives.  Little did they know that when a haying crew pulled into their farm a outgoing man named Ripley would change their outlook.  Ripley would open their eyes to what it meant to be truly in love.<br />A very sweet read. This was the first Pamela Morsi stories I have read, I look forward to seeing more of her work.<br />SUMMER DREAMS Jeane Anne Cardwell A horse race is the deciding factor in three people lives.  Who will be the winner, and what will be the outcome for Spirited lass, Dorina Stevens,  heartless Lord Julien Humbly, and the elusive scared Richard Michaels, Earl of Gloxbury. With the stakes held so high you know true love is not far behind.<br />Cardwell presents in this story with so many plots and twists it will get your hooked in the story right up until you finish the last page.  I found myself holding my breath at the final end to see who the winner was in the horse race.<br />HOG Heaven Ann Carberry<br />A pigheaded Loralie Davis refuses to see what her future could hold.  She is perfectly content in raising her pigs. Little does she know handsome Gabe Curran has other plans in store for her.  Somehow I don't think it includes pigs do you?:)<br />Don't let the name throw you off, this is a delightful read.  I found myself smiling right upon until the end.<br />WINTER HEATHER Karen Lockwood<br />Returning home to Scotland after being absent in America for the past five years Lord Glenncannon is shocked to learn his thirteen year ward Anne has grown to a desirable eighteen year old woman.  Having secret hopes of returning to Scotland to wed Anne he is heartbroken to learn of her engagement.  Now he must figure a plan to win the heart of his beloved Anne.<br />With such a  rich description of Scotland,  Karen Lockwood weaves this enchanting tale of love into the readers heart.  Also it made we want to do further research on the history behind the Winter Heather.tent in raising her pigs. Little does she know handsome Gabe Curran has other plans in store for her.  Somehow I don't think it includes pigs do you?:)<br />Don't let the name throw you off, this is a delightful read.  I found myself smiling right upon until the end.<br />WINTER HEATHER Karen Lockwood<br />Returning home to Scotland after being absent in America for the past five years Lord Glenncannon is shocked to learn his thirteen year ward Anne has grown to a desirable eighteen year old woman.  Having secret hopes of returning to Scotland to wed Anne he is heartbroken to learn of her engagement.  Now he must figure a plan to win the heart of his beloved Anne.<br />With such a  rich description of Scotland,  Karen Lockwood weaves this enchanting tale of love into the readers heart.  Also it made we want to do further research on the history behind the Winter Heather.	2001-01-18
US	45818544	RNGWLNCG1VPAC	0373709552	612631876	Baby Business: 9 Months Later (Harlequin Superromance No. 955)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Myshelf.Com Reviewer	Brenda Novak is a writer who writes with gut-wrenching emotion.  The characters she creates will quickly become a part of your everyday life. Her latest, Baby Business, is set in Salt Lake City.  The hero, Thad Winter, a widower of 18 months, still mourns the death of his beloved spouse and unborn child.  His late wife and unborn child were tragically taken out of his life by a drunken driver.  Thad decides to have the child he was denied and give him something to live for once again.  He offers a hundred thousand dollars for a woman to accept artificial insemination, carry his baby to fruition, and to stay out of their lives after delivery.  He is convinced  he can never love anyone as much as his late wife.<br />Thad has many applications trying to collect the hundred thousand dollar prize.  Most are very bold and eager to assure their place as the selected candidate.  Tactics they use to entice Thad only turns him off until he meets Macy McKinley.  Macy is a mystery to Thad. She is neither bold nor aggressive in her pursuit of the hundred thousand dollar check.  She refuses to tell him why she is in need of such a large amount of money.  However, during a background check, Thad learns that the divorced Macy needs the money so that her beloved five-year-old daughter Haley can receive a life saving bone marrow transplant. Thad and Macy reach an agreement that includes him safeguarding his investment by a temporary marriage. As Macy and Thad remain in close proximity, they fall in love. However, she mistrusts love after her former spouse deserted her, and he feels guilty for betraying his first wife by falling in love again. Love may not be enough to heal the deep wounds of either one of this deserving pair.<br />Baby Business is an emotional read that will keep the reader turning the pages until the end.  Her characters are so well developed you will long remember them long after you finish one of her novels.	2001-01-18
