US	45822499	R1J9MUNM7KP7NC	0140084991	102398027	Empire Express: Building the First Transcontinental Railroad	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Expansive tome not for occasional non-fiction reader	David Haward Bain's exhaustive work on the Transcontinental Railroad is probably the most complete novel on the subject with 711 pages of text but I would not recommend it to the casual non-fiction reader.<br />Bain does not have the talent to liven up his literature like other western authors (i.e. David Lavender or Evan S. Connell) but he makes up for it with a plethora of information on almost every aspect of the vast project.<BR>Bain covers the initial dreams of Asa Whitney and Theodore Judah, the creation of the Central Pacific and Union Pacific, the acceptance of Congress with the project, the perils of laying tracks through a mountain range and on a vast and at times, a hostile plain, and continues his writing past the meeting at Promontory Summit with a 35-page Epilogue.<br />But Bain goes a step further than most authors on the subject by intricately detailing the boardroom battles that the Big Four and the U.P.'s Durant and Ames waged throughout the building of the RR lines. More of the book is spent in Washington, San Francisco and New York than it is out on the prairie or up in the Sierra Nevadas. Bain also writes ad nauseam about the Credit Mobilier scandal which rocked the nation during Grant's administration. I can only award four stars though as I wish that less text would've been spent on the corporate aspect and more writing would've covered the common track layer's plights, everyday life and work details.<br />It all makes for interesting reading for someone searching for the entire story (and getting even more) of the Transcontinental Railroad but Bain's book is not the right source for the casual reader looking to refresh one's History 101 knowledge of the subject before taking the family vacation out west to visit a few of the sites. There are other books that are half the length of this that will work just fine for that. Do be cautious with Ambrose's \\"Nothing Like it in the World\\" though as railroad experts accused him of plagiarism and inventing colorful stories in said work.<br />- One final note, the book has eight highly detailed maps (which include basic relief, rivers and RR tent towns) which I found sufficient enough to follow along both of the railroads progress towards meeting in Utah.	2003-03-13
US	45822499	R3J5J5JR3BZSLQ	0345406400	255997198	The Romanovs: the Final Chapter	Books	4	181	186	N	N	Appropriate afterword for &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra&quot;	I'm guessing that most people buying &quot;The Romanovs: The Final Chapter&quot; have already read Massie's &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra&quot; (first published in 1967) but if you haven't, I highly recommend it as &quot;The Romanov's&quot; is basically a final update to the family's tragic tale. Also, Massie's first book on Russia's last Tsar will make this book more personal to the reader as one gets a sentimental appreciation of who Nicholas and his family were from &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra.&quot;<BR>  This book is far different than Massie's other historical epics as he takes on the role of an investigative journalist rather than a historian. Massie is on the front-lines, from DNA labs to court rooms, searching for a final answer as to whose skeletons were unearthed by an Ekaterinburg resident in the late 70's.<BR>Massie leaves the reader with a plethora of factual information that all but ends one of the greatest mysteries of the 20th century. Using DNA tests, Massie proves, beyond a reasonable doubt, that Russia's royal family and servants are the ones that were buried beneath the road outside Ekaterinburg. He also proves beyond a reasonable doubt, that Anna Anderson, who was the 20th century's greatest con artist, was not Anastasia, Tsarevna of Russia, but a mere Polish peasant.<BR>  With all the crime solving, the book at times gets bogged down into quotes, lengthy (but pertinent) explanations of scientific facts and petty arguments between scientists and lawyers, which limits Massie's masterful writing-style to a minimum. After reading all his books, the only sections that come close to capturing his colorful and accomplished style of prose are the first and last chapters.<BR>That said, I'm very glad Massie was the one to tell the Tsar's final story and I highly recommend it to any reader of &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra.&quot;<br /> Here's a few items of note:<br /> - A previous reviewer said that Massie does not explain what happened to the last two bodies, presumably of Alexei and either Anastasia or Marie, but in fact, Massie does with quotes of Yurovsky's writings on page 31 and again on page 68. By burning the two bodies and spreading the ashes and embers around, their remains were not preserved like the remaining nine bodies by being entombed in clay, so the final two missing family members in all likelihood will never be found. Another reviewer wished they had a family tree to keep the Romanovs straight. In my edition of &quot;Nicholas and Alexandra&quot;, there is a family tree that shows all of Nicholas II's brothers and sister and one could make a photo copy from that book and add in all the nephews, nieces, cousins, etc.<br />- Also, since this book was published in 1995, a few things have happened in Russia regarding the Romanovs. On July 17, 1998, Nicholas II, Empress Alexandra, three of their children and four family servants were buried in the Cathedral of St. Peter and Paul in St. Petersburg. The Russian Orthodox Church still questions the legitimacy of the bones as being the Tsar but the church did partake in the funeral march and burial. In a poll taken at the time, only 47 percent of Russians believed they remains were of Nicholas II and his family. And in 2001, the Dowager Empress Marie Fedorovna, was exhumed in Denmark and reburied alongside her husband, Tsar Alexander III, in the same cathedral.	2003-01-29
US	45822499	RBUX6Z6L1N4WG	089141696X	738964918	Dark Eagles	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Reader-friendly for aviation novices	As one who couldn't tell you the difference between a J57 engine and RJ-43-MA-11 ramjet, I'd still highly recommend this to any reader who wants to more about Black Projects but is leery about buying a book because they don't want to be confused by technical humdrum.<BR>Peebles book is quite the contrary and it's very entertaining for both an aviation novice reader like myself as well as any aficionado of aircraft (a friend of mine who is currently getting his pilot's license also read it and enjoyed it). Granted, you must have a little understanding of military aircraft. If you would be unable to decipher between a P-51 Mustang and F-4 Phantom, it may be too much.<br />Peebles writes with colorful narrative on some of the US's most astonishing and mysterious aircraft in the last 50 years. Included in his book are chapters on the first US jet (XP-59A Airacomet), the spy plane Francis Gary Powers made famous (U-2 Aquatone), the birth of the stealth fighter (F-117A), 'borrowed' MiG's flying in the Nevada desert, reconnaissance drone vehicles, the Star Wars-like A-12 Oxcart, as well as the current Black Project plane - Aurora.<br />In each chapter, Pebbles writes on what precipitated the need for a new secret aircraft, how the craft took shape behind closed doors, its test flights, and how it performed in action. He includes a plethora of colorful stories on how the U-2 was named, how a US Navy aircraft carrier was 'captured' by the US Air force, and tales of gorillas smoking cigars and flying in the southwest desert.<br />Pebbles also goes into great detail about two controversial topics of today - Area 51 and the Aurora. Throughout the book, Peebles gives the history of Area 51, how it originated as a base  at Groom Lake all the way up to the flying saucer tales of today. Conspiracy theorists will be disappointed as well as many Black Ops devotees looking for proof that the Aurora exists.<br />In conclusion, I thought Peebles book was a great, intriguing look into some of our nation's biggest secrets of the Cold War that's also a quick read (only 292 pages of text) and I highly recommend it.	2003-01-22
US	45822499	R2NQY7541XCKJM	0801867037	317652564	Tet!: The Turning Point in the Vietnam War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great explanation of a military victory/politcal defeat	Contrary to the previous reviewer, I think Oberdorfer tackled the Tet subject comprehensively and covered all bases in explaining the turning point of the Vietnam conflict.<BR>Oberdorfer begins the book by fully explaining what really happened at the American Embassy that fateful January night in 1968. Although most Americans today believe the Embassy was 'overrun,' Oberdorfer explains the true story of a platoon of Viet Cong blasting a hole in the wall to enter the compound but never being able to enter the Chancery building. I believe the reason Oberdorfer starts his book off with the subject is to dispel the 'overrun' myth of VC running through the building  capturing documents and, even though it was a minor military skirmish compared to the street-by-street fighting in Hue and siege at Khe Sanh, the American Embassy attack was the paramount event which woke America up to what was happening in SE Asia.<br />Also, the previous reviewer complains the book focuses too much on the politics and media coverage of Tet, not realizing Oberdorfer's main point of the book is that Tet might have been won on the battlefield, but it was an epic defeat on American televisions and in world newspapers. The Tet offensive's primary aim was to cause political upheaval in America to give the Communists a victory exactly like what defeated the French a decade earlier. In a 1947 tract by Hanoi called \\"The Resistance Will Win\\", it states \\"...as a result of the long war the enemy troops become weary and discouraged, and are tormented by home-sickness. The French economy and finances are exhausted; supplying the army is difficult, the French people do not want the war to go on any longer. The movement against the diehards in France goes stronger and more fierce. World opinion severely condemns France...world movement for peace and democracy scores great successes, etc. ...<br />Subtract France from the quote and insert the US and there is the political reasoning for starting the GeneralOffensive. Also, Tet not only caused US and ARVN troop casualties, but it ended a presidential administration and forever changed how the news is presented to the American public by the media.  A study of Tet not involving the White House, LBJ, McNamara, Clifford, or for that matter Cronkite, the Wall Street Journal and Time, would be like reading about the light bulb and failing to mention Edison.<br />Oberdorfer's does a great job balancing his information by devoting whole chapters to subjects like the history of Vietnam, pre-Tet America, the shockwave that hit the US after the attack, the 'shot seen around the world' of the Saigon police chief shooting a VC prisoner on the street, the military disaster of Tet to the Viet Cong ranks, the battle of Hue and a section on one of the most decisive months in US history - March 1968. <br />My only gripe is that the book was first written in 1971, which interestingly gives the reader an unusual perspective as the war was still going on, but is begging for a complete Afterword section to fill in the gaps as more information on the North is now available. BTW, there is a great Chronology at the end of the book which makes it easy to follow the play-by-play and would be a student's dream in helping research information.	2003-01-08
US	45822499	R108OF0HBCLQOO	0801867037	317652564	Tet!: The Turning Point in the Vietnam War	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Great explanation of a military victory/politcal defeat	Contrary to the previous reviewer, I think Oberdorfer tackled the Tet subject comprehensively and covered all bases in explaining the turning point of the Vietnam conflict.<BR>Oberdorfer begins the book by fully explaining what really happened at the American Embassy that fateful January night in 1968. Although most Americans today believe the Embassy was 'overrun,' Oberdorfer explains the true story of a platoon of Viet Cong blasting a hole in the wall to enter the compound but never being able to enter the Chancery building. I believe the reason Oberdorfer starts his book off with the subject is to dispel the 'overrun' myth of VC running through the building  capturing documents and, even though it was a minor military skirmish compared to the street-by-street fighting in Hue and siege at Khe Sanh, the American Embassy attack was the paramount event which woke America up to what was happening in SE Asia.<br />Also, the previous reviewer complains the book focuses too much on the politics and media coverage of Tet, not realizing Oberdorfer's main point of the book is that Tet might have been won on the battlefield, but it was an epic defeat on American televisions and in world newspapers. The Tet offensive's primary aim was to cause political upheaval in America to give the Communists a victory exactly like what defeated the French a decade earlier. In a 1947 tract by Hanoi called \\"The Resistance Will Win\\", it states \\"...as a result of the long war the enemy troops become weary and discouraged, and are tormented by home-sickness. The French economy and finances are exhausted; supplying the army is difficult, the French people do not want the war to go on any longer. The movement against the diehards in France goes stronger and more fierce. World opinion severely condemns France...world movement for peace and democracy scores great successes, etc. ...<br />Subtract France from the quote and insert the US and there is the political reasoning for starting the GeneralOffensive. Also, Tet not only caused US and ARVN troop casualties, but it ended a presidential administration and forever changed how the news is presented to the American public by the media.  A study of Tet not involving the White House, LBJ, McNamara, Clifford, or for that matter Cronkite, the Wall Street Journal and Time, would be like reading about the light bulb and failing to mention Edison.<br />Oberdorfer's does a great job balancing his information by devoting whole chapters to subjects like the history of Vietnam, pre-Tet America, the shockwave that hit the US after the attack, the 'shot seen around the world' of the Saigon police chief shooting a VC prisoner on the street, the military disaster of Tet to the Viet Cong ranks, the battle of Hue and a section on one of the most decisive months in US history - March 1968. <br />My only gripe is that the book was first written in 1971, which interestingly gives the reader an unusual perspective as the war was still going on, but is begging for a complete Afterword section to fill in the gaps as more information on the North is now available. BTW, there is a great Chronology at the end of the book which makes it easy to follow the play-by-play and would be a student's dream in helping research information.	2003-01-08
US	45822499	R3AJF30EAAT51L	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Hooked on Phonics-Collegiate style	What &quot;Founding Brothers&quot; is - an engrossing glimpse into selected incidents and topics during the early years of America with little rhyme or reason as to what Ellis chooses as his focus.<br />What &quot;Founding Brothers&quot; is not - a concise and complete tome on the early history of America in regards to its politics, diplomacy, military campaigns or economy.<br />Although Ellis tells the reader on the first page of his &quot;Acknowledgments&quot; section that he only wanted to write a &quot;modest-sized account,&quot; on early American history, I feel he narrowed his focus too tightly. Although he covers the few  subjects he opts for masterly, when I finished the book I found myself asking for more and considering it's only 250 pages long, it definitely could have been a bit longer to fill in the gaps.<br />A perfect analogy on this book is included in the beginning, where Ellis quotes Lytton Strachey about rowing over a great ocean of material and lowering down into it, here and there, a little bucket and bringing up a characteristic speciman to be examined with a careful curiousity.<br />What Ellis does examine (Burr-Hamilton feud, Adams-Jefferson relationship, the 18th century compromise on slavery, Madison as Jefferson's understudy, etc.) is written in such an unrivaled scholarly style that it still is well worth reading. And it's a pretty easy read for the average non-fiction reader, though I recommend to keep a dictionary handy as you're bound to stumble across a few intellectual words you won't know but can later drop in conversation to impress colleagues.<br />- For interested readers, there is a program based on this book (Ellis does some commentary work) that airs about twice a year on the History Channel so keep an eye out for it.	2002-11-27
US	45822499	R1ZHW3VOCJVLHS	0684804484	22414532	No Ordinary Time: Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt: The Home Front in World War II	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Not typical fare for history readers	Although I am an avid history reader, I'd recommend Goodwin's \\"No Ordinary Time,\\" to most readers. Goodwin does not write in the typical non-fiction writing-style by not continually delivering fact after fact. She will dig into the story, isn't afraid to offer opinions from other historians, will often share a first-person quote from letters, interviews, etc.; and will not shy from surmising her own hypotheses on the subject matter.<br />Although the book solely focuses on the Roosevelts during World War II with only passing mention to the New Deal and the Depression, the main body of the text is on the relationship between FDR and Eleanor and their concerted effort to win the war while bettering the American way of life at the same time. With Franklin, Goodwin examines his determination to beat fascism, both before the United States' involvement and after Germany declared war on the US. Key players such as Harry Hopkins, Henry Stimson, George Marshall, Winston Churchill and others make continual appearances in the book.<BR>Looking at Eleanor, Goodwin concentrates on her work with the OCD and her persistence at improving civil rights and women's issues. Goodwin does not shy from entering family business, and writes at length about FDR and Eleanor's unconventional relationship, their troubles with their parents, children and in-laws and FDR's early-marriage affair. Goodwin even tackles the controversial topic of Eleanor's alleged alternative lifestyle in very good taste by not gossiping but delivering factual information without jumping to conclusions.<br />Missing from the book is any military view of the war so it helps to know some of the background of the WWII military theaters but is not necessary to still enjoy \\"No Ordinary Time.\\" (I'd recommend Robert Leckie's \\"Delivered From Evil\\" for that aspect). The diplomacy view is also lacking as, for example, Goodwin spends more time on the controversy of Eleanor not going to the Tehran Conference, than the actual issues at the conference itself.<br />That said, I still enjoyed this Pulitzer Prize-winning book and was quite impressed with the amount of information I learned on  one of America's greatest president's and the effort this nation put forth on the home front to win the war.  <br />- In case any readers of \\"No Ordinary Time,\\" become interested in the colorful Winston Churchill, I highly recommend William Raymond Manchester's \\"The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill, Alone 1932-1940.\\" Although it covers Churchill before the war, it is written in much the same fashion of Goodwin's book in that it covers both the daily life as well as the international issues. Sadly, Manchester passed on before finishing his third installment in this incredible series.	2002-11-20
US	45822499	R2BCLDPKW0JCJI	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	3	141	154	N	N	Howard Zinn approach to Levant a bit too brief	Contrary to previous reviewers, this book is NOT banal or dull. Bernard Lewis is the preeminent English-writing historian on the world's powderkeg region of today and has a wealth of knowledge on the area and its culture. For the average non-fiction reader, the text is not tough to read and has quite a bit of life to it, but if all you read is Oprah's Book of the Month, it may be a bit tedious.<br />However, I can only give it three stars because, although it's subtitled \\"A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years,\\" it was a bit too brief for my literary palate. I anxiously devoured the work eager to learn about Suleyman the Magnificent and Ataturk; instead I learned that the eggplant comes from the Middle East and a peach, at one time, was known as a Persian apple.<br />And that's my biggest gripe with the book. Lewis titles it as an overview of the region giving prospective readers the idea it will cover famous Middle East leaders, its countries and their origins, and the timeless religious conflicts. Instead, the book takes a Howard Zinn approach to the region and covers in great detail the inhabitants and their religion, culture, economy, social castes, judicial systems, agriculture, etc. Over one-third of the book entitled \\"Cross-Sections\\" is on this subject matter,  And although informative, it is impertinent to the political history of the Muslim world, which the title of the book implies it is about.<BR>The only historical figure garnering a significant amount of ink in the book is, for obvious reasons, Muhammad. Lewis' basic explanation of the Muslim religion in his section \\"The Dawn and Noon of Islam,\\" is an engrossing look into one of the major religions of the world and would be quite helpful to someone who is new to the subject matter. Lewis has a number of other books solely devoted to the subject matter but gives a good overview in this work.<BR>With the large sections on culture and religion, there is little room left in the book on the political history itself. Lewis gives brief synopsis' on Iran's early history and the reign of the Ottoman Empire but little else. The 20th century info is contained in just 40 pages at the end of the last chapter.<BR>Lewis does deserve extra credit for two helpful tools in the back with the reader-friendly chronology and informative maps.<br />In conclusion, ask yourself what most interests you as the reader about the Middle East? If one is interested in the culture and everyday life, this book is a great start. If one wants the political history about the rulers and military leaders, I'd look elsewhere.	2002-05-08
US	45822499	R1WX3FB2WKM9FE	0140058508	499822874	1066: The Year of the Conquest	Books	5	96	102	N	N	Engaging book on precarious year in English history	To put it simply, Howarth's book \\"1066, The Year of the Conquest\\" is a biased, factually-based, historical account of the year 1066 in England, encompassing both the plights of the royals AND the common people of the island, along with the English's neighbors to the south and east. If you are looking for the play-by-play of the Battle of Hastings and William the Conqueror's reign in England, you've come to the wrong book, my friend.<BR>Howarth examines just that profound year in English history, and does not go in full detail about what happened before or after 1066.<br />Like other reviewers, I did notice Howarth's unabashed bias to the English in this work, but his non-objective feelings don't overwhelm the text. A jovial example is that not once, is the Norman king referred to as \\"William the Conqueror;\\" in fact, he is introduced to the reader as \\"William the Bastard.\\"<BR>That aside, I had a splendid time reading this short work (only 200 pages). Howarth's writing style keeps the reader engrossed and he has a gift of turning the historical facts into a readable and impassioned story. One thing I really liked was the absence of footnotes. In the text, Howarth will cite the text he is using, what biases it may have, and how accurate it might be with regards to first-person accounts, years after 1066 it was written, etc. This citation style works extremely well in the text and I wish more authors would use it.<br />The best part of the book might be the first chapter where Howarth chooses a random village and takes a Howard Zinn approach at it by explaining what the common folk did at that time, what they ate, where they lived, etc. It really gives a reader a better understanding of the Middle Ages, after all, not everyone got to live in a castle. Another nice feature of the book is the friendly maps. Although there are only six maps, they are easy to read, they include all the places Howarth is writing about, and show the routes of the invasions.<br />I would recommend this to any casual history reader or to anyone who has viewed the Bayeux Tapestry. Instead of trying to decipher the pictures of the tapestry, by reading this book you will get the full story and it will make it easier in seeing what the tapestry is trying to depict.	2002-04-25
US	45822499	R3TL01083LGV4R	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A layout that's every history reader's dream!	After reading &quot;Crucible of War,&quot; my first question was &quot;Why can't other history authors lay out books as reader-friendly as Fred Anderson?!&quot;<BR>Although Anderson's writing is not as interesting as Robert Massie and his information contains a few gaps in it, the beauty of this book is the layout. It has everything an avid history reader could ever want. <BR>  The first thing that will catch your eye is the maps in the first few pages. Anderson has included nine maps covering the areas he discusses in the 862-page book (746 pages of text) showing key cities, rivers, forts, easy-to-read topography, and indian tribal lands. Finally, a book where the reader doesn't have to scramble for an atlas every other page or use another book's maps to figure out where things are. Every key item Anderson hits on will be easily labeled in his maps. The only thing missing on the maps are troop movements, but with his descriptions in the text, it's easy to figure out where everybody is.<br />The second thing about the layout is the quick referencing tools. Anderson has divided the book into 10 parts and 74 chapters. Before each part, he gives a one paragraph summary as to what the major events are in the section. Before each chapter, he lists the month and date in which the chapter's topic takes place, giving the reader an easy chronology to follow throughout the book.<br />Another feature is the illustrations. Anderson has included over 50 illustrations of people and places spread throughout the book which gives the reader a view into what the towns looked like and the style of dress in the period. The pictures also help to put a face on the major players in the book.<br />The book can also be an outstanding reference tool for college students. Aside from the quick references within the chapters, in the back is an 85-page Notes section and a 25-page Index. The Notes section contains more information on the chapter footnotes and where Anderson got the information incase the reader would like to further delve into the topic. What more could a student ask for?<br />As for Anderson's writing, I found it to be generally easy reading (in comparison to other history works) that has a wealth of information. He's very complete in discussing his selected topics and I never found his work to be dragging. And although he skips back-and-forth between the colonies and the continent, it never was confusing.<BR>If there was one thing missing, it was more coverage of the war in Europe. Anderson includes information on who was fighting whom and who won which battle, but he does not go into the depth of the battles like he does for the conflicts in the colonies. <BR>  The last section of the book covers the impending crisis that was brewing for the British in North America. It reminded me very much of Massie's &quot;Dreadnought,&quot; where it covers the escalating tensions, but very appropriately stops short of getting into the actual armed conflict.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in colonial history, the founding of the United States, or military history. And if you're a college student, you will not find a better reference work!	2002-03-28
US	45822499	R1ULLF7MUCJVU3	0345449703	208132165	Inside Oscar 2	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Too highly opinonated to deserve five stars	I have been waiting months for this book after I engulfed the first edition and wore out the pages from the countless amount of times I paged through it to find out things like who was up for Best Actress in 1944.<BR>The latest edition starts where the first left off, in 1995, and covers the Oscars up until last year's ceremony in 2000 with \\"Gladiator,\\" taking home the Best Picture nod. Bona basically follows the same chapter agenda of the first by going over the top movies of the year, what critics across the country thought and the early Oscar buzz. He follows with the nominations, who was happy and who got snubbed, which leads into the section \\"The Big Night.\\" That section is a run-down of Oscar night and includes all the corny jokes told by the MC, who was wearing what, and what awful dance pieces Debbie Allen made the audience suffer through. Bona follows by running down the reactions to the winners and all the juicy bits from the post-parties.<BR>And of course, he included my favorite part which is a list of all the winners and nominations in the back. He also includes the lists of pictures that didn't get nominated and foreign films that got snubbed year by year. <br />But as eager as I was for this edition, it so far has left me a bit disappointed.  Though this book is as funny at times as the first, Bona is a bit too opinionated for my liking. He lets the reader know right away what he thought of a film and takes cheap shots at people, like calling Ridley Scott \\"a hack.\\" He is also more than happy to let us know how he felt on the 2000 election and brings it up numerous times. Wait...isn't this a film book? Obviously, with partner Mason Wiley not around for this edition, Bona was free to let his opinions fly and is not afraid to take pot shots at anyone. He also has a tendency to cheerlead at times in the book. It's quite obvious what film or actor he felt should have won.<BR>Of course, the first book took it's fair share of shots at people but there were far fewer, they never went on for more than two sentences, and they were always filled with humor. Bona's slams in this edition are less for humor and more to state his opinion.<BR>Of course, it's his book and he can write what he wants but it just doesn't flow as well as the first and if Wiley were still alive, I doubt it would be so politically opinionated.<br />That being said, I'd still recommend this book to any Oscar fan as it has more info than you can find in any other publication and it's a nice update from the first edition which stopped at 1994. And as Milos Forman once said \\"The Academy awards are a wonderful game, but if you take them seriously, you're in trouble.\\"	2002-02-22
US	45822499	R2852WK31ZDHWH	0472085603	251986456	Framed Visions: Popular Culture, Americanization, and the Contemporary German and Austrian Imagination (Social History, Popular Culture, and Politics in Germany)	Books	1	4	9	N	N	As boring a text book as you'll ever find	Reader be warned - this is a text book that examines a very narrow topic and for 99 out of 100 readers, will be incredibly boring.<BR>At first, I thought the topic of examining American influence on the modern and post-modern German arts and social culture may be interesting but Gemunden's drab writing quickly ended any notions of that.<BR>Gemunden breaks the book down into three major sections:<BR>-&quot; Between Avant-Garde and Popular Culture&quot; which delves into the influence of Andy Warhol's work among a number of German artists.<BR>- &quot;Hollywood Made in Bavaria&quot; which examines influences on Rainer Werner Fassbinder's and Herbert Achternbusch's projects.<BR>- &quot;Subjectivities in Motion&quot; which looks into the films of Peter Handke, Wim Wenders and Monika Treut.<BR>Although these subjects may seem intriguing, Gemunden's aimless wandering writing style will quickly turn the reader off.<BR>I can only recommend this book to one kind of reader - a college student who is writing a paper on this very subject. Although it's as tough a text book to get through as I've ever read, there would be pertinent information for a researcher who is tackling the task of comparing the Cold War American Pop Culture influence on prominent German film makers. And for any student assigned this as a text book, I feel sorry for you. This will definitely be one you will sell back.	2002-02-01
US	45822499	R2M49Z90QB8GUL	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Should be required reading in high schools	....BR>As brilliant the writing and compelling the drama that Capote pours into the novel, the horrific fact of it is that an innocent mid-western family was senselessly murdered based on a jailhouse rumor.<br />I feel Capote's best work in the book is in the beginning with the suspense he builds to the impending murders (I'm not ruining any plot, the backjacket of the book begins with \\"On Nov. 15, 1959, in the small town of Holcomb, Kansas, four members of the Clutter family were savagely murdered by blasts from a shotgun held a few inches from their faces...\\"). The reader knows what's going to happen, one can sense the crescendo of tension through the first 50 pages, and yet I became so compelled for the Clutter's that I found myself hoping they would somehow, someway, find a way to survive the events of that tragic fall evening 40 years ago. And that is what I believe is Capote's best success in the book; he fills the reader with compassion - for both the Clutter's - and ironically, the killers, Dick and Perry. <BR>  Some reviewers complain the middle of the book drags a bit but Capote is trying to give the reader both sides of the story. To understand Dick and Perry, one must understand their misguided pasts. Their background stories also help setup a terrific ending to the book.<BR>  Capote also has a gift at capturing a human soul and putting into the pages. The grandpa and young boy hitchhiker story midway through the book is his best but the stories of the prisoners and their everyday nuances is also profoundly ardent. <BR>  For most readers, this should be a very easy book to follow. Although Capote constantly jumps from the Clutter's to the crime investigators to Dick and Perry's shenanigans, it still follows a pretty consistent timeline. And it's a very fast read. Although it's close to 350 pages, most people I know have finished it within a week.<br />  Modern supense novels like \\"Hannibal\\" and \\"The Stand\\" may be more sadistic and have a deeper story, but \\"In Cold Blood\\" was the forerunner to them all and still ranks among the best pieces of non-fiction literature in the last 50 years.	2002-01-25
US	45822499	R8R2ZALNRLCF8	0415195586	383401709	States and Nationalism in Europe since 1945 (The Making of the Contemporary World)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surprise! A reader-friendly textbook!	Obviously when Anderson wrote this, he had a specific reader in mind and has set up his chapters to be very friendly for a college student frantically researching for a paper.<BR>Unlike some textbooks, this book is exactly what is states itself as &quot;The States and Nationalism in Europe Since 1945.&quot; Topics covered by Anderson include the relationship of nationalism to the Cold War, re-emergence of demands by stateless nations, effects of European integration and globalization, immigration, and how nationalism effected the former Soviet Union, Yugoslavia and other Eastern Bloc countries.<BR>Each chapter is very short (about 10-15 pages long) and includes a conclusion at the end which will aid in finding research. Although it's not exactly fun reading, by no means does it fall into the proverbial dry, pounding-headache dribble of some textbooks. Each chapter is also very helpful in giving examples of where certain acts of nationalism occurred in Europe as well as which minor ethnicities are present within states today.<BR>Anderson has a impressive resume as Professor Emeritus at Edinburgh, yet he is by no means overly pro-British like many of his colleagues.<BR>Here's an example &quot;In terms of economic rivalries, one major European power, Britain, continued a long relative decline from being the richest European country at the beginning of the century to being, at the end of the century, the third or fourth poorest in the EU.&quot;<BR>Another nice thing about the book is it's a very fast read. It's only 109 pages long (and that includes notes, further reading ideas, and a handy index), and it took me less than a week to breeze through while taking notes. I highly recommend this to any student looking for information on modern Europe for a poli-sci, geography or history class. Anyone researching for a paper on nationalism will obviously benefit greatly from this book as well.	2002-01-18
US	45822499	R1A517XKD6AWMB	0831727977	804721063	The History of North American Railroads	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A coffee table book is only worth a 1,000 pictures	Make no mistake, Yenne's book is a vehicle to get pretty pictures of steam engines into a hard-bound, photo album. While the lay out is nice by dividing the chapters into some of the great past and present railroads of North America (Great Northern, Union Pacific, Pennsy, Santa Fe, etc.), the information in each chapter is subpar. In his text, Yenne concentrates more on the business aspect of each railroad and less on why it chose which routes, its daily operation and the passenger lines. <br />Also, any train enthusiast of the Southeast will be highly disappointed. There isn't any mention of the Norfolk and Western, Southern RR or those lines' modern-day conglomerate, Norfolk Southern. Yenne also skipped numerous Midwest lines such as the Milwaukee Road, Soo Line and Chicago &amp; Northwestern. The present Eastern stalwarts CSX and Conrail are only briefly mentioned. Regarding Yenne's text, it's a good overview but doesn't give the reader enough info to make it substantial. <br />The pictures, which are the selling point of the book, are fantastic but even they left me a bit disappointed. Most of the photos were old steam engines and many were unflattering pics of just locomotives standing alone with no artistic merit whatsoever. One could pick up a copy of the monthly magazine &quot;Trains,&quot; and find more exciting pictures to look at. Colorful diesel engines or streamlined passenger locomotives are included at a minimum. <BR>Overall, I was disappointed with Yenne's book. The text was subpar, the pictures weren't visually exciting and the choices of railroads to cover was somewhat puzzling. I would strongly recommend against it for any reader trying to learn some railroading history as it is a below average coffee table book.	2002-01-10
US	45822499	R770MUW96N45Q	006103004X	893798538	Blind Man's Bluff: The Untold Story of American Submarine Espionage	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A bit sensatationalized but worth reading	&quot;Blind Man's Bluff,&quot; is a fast and easy read about the submarine espionage tactics used during the Cold War. Most of the stories are on American subs but in the latest edition, an Appendix contains a few brief Soviet items that the authors recently uncovered.<BR> Among the subjects covered are: submarine disasters, underwater collisions, undersea wire tapping on Soviet cables, the attempt by the Glomar Explorer to lift a sunken Soviet sub off the sea bottom, and many, many introductions to key Naval Intelligence officers and sub captains. Essentially, it's every story the government tried to keep classified during the Cold War. The authors came across the information by searching declassified documents and interviewing former Navy employees.<BR> Anyone interested in covert military operations, the Cold War, naval operations or Tom Clancy fans will immensely enjoy this book. But even for the casual, meandering reader who doesn't concentrate his reading time on a single topic, Blind Man's Bluff will still be quite enjoyable.<BR> It's so reader-friendly that most people will fly right through this book. And that's partly why I give it only four stars. In parts, it gets a little too sensationalized and too-Clancy for my liking. As an avid history reader, I concentrate on facts and information in texts and at times, BMB bogs down in dialogue and excessive melodrama. Instead of being informative it often becomes very narrative which isn't all bad depending on your reading tastes.<BR> Sontag and the other authors did a great service in writing this book to the courageous men of this country who defended our borders by serving in the 'Silent Service.' Many of the vets have never been able to tell their story to relatives because of an oath of secrecy. Finally, their stories are told. Thank you veterans as well as current military personal for keeping American freedom safe!<br />- If you're lucky, you may be able to catch an hour-long segment of &quot;History Undercover&quot; on the History Channel devoted to this book. They replay it every couple of months so check your TV listings or the web site.	2001-12-14
US	45822499	R3UAID6T6JG974	031218199X	848183939	Unholy Trinity: The Vatican, The Nazis, and The Swiss Banks	Books	4	61	71	N	N	Vatican could end controversy by opening documents	In tackling such a paramount topic that will offend the core of many people's religious beliefs and its institution, Aaron and Loftus have stirred up a torrent of controversy with this book. ...<BR>Obviously, for a reader to believe whether Aarons and Loftus' claims are valid, they will have to read the book for themselves. <BR>I first heard about this book from an associate professor of genocide studies at a major US college who highly recommended it because of the authors' extensiveness in their research. <BR>As I began reading the book, I noticed Aarons and Loftus footnoted any important piece of information and have over 60 pages of end notes in the back of the book for documentation. It is unfortunate they could not document more from the Vatican itself but because the papal state chooses to not open its files, this controversy will keep continuing. And considering it just opened files on the Spanish Inquisition a few years ago, I doubt any of us will be around when the Vatican finally divulges the truth on this disturbing piece of history. Many people will object to this book but their anger should be directed at the Vatican, who could end this controversy by opening its files. If there's nothing to hide, then why aren't the documents available to an impartial researcher, unlike Father Graham?<BR>Aaron and Loftus break &quot;Unholy Trinity,&quot; into two major sections, part one being &quot;The Church's War Against Communism,&quot; and the second &quot;Communism's War Against the Church.&quot;<BR>The first section is on how bishops like Hudal and Draganovic harbored war criminals and smuggled them to safety in South America. It also goes into detail on the Ustashi and Croatian thug Ante Pavelic and his &quot;Catholic Holocaust,&quot; on muslim and orthodox followers in the Balkans. <BR>The second part is on the spylines the Communists had setup throughout Europe, unbeknownst to the OSS, MI5 and the Vatican. Aarons and Loftus take just as many shots at Great Britain and the US (especially Allan Dulles) as they do the Vatican in this section.<BR>Although the book is subtitled, &quot;The Vatican, the Nazis, and the Swiss Banks,&quot; there is nothing on the money aspect of the scheme and the swiss banks' involvement until the updated Conclusions chapter at the very end.<BR>I gave this book four stars because it helped answer some of my questions involving the Vatican's role with war criminals and unlike many conspiracy books, it gives documented proof on its evidence. But not all questions were answered and probably won't be in my lifetime. Also, the book is very dry and is tough to get through in some sections. Not that I expected it to read like Tom Clancy but the reader can tell that the authors have backgrounds in journalism and law with their writing style.	2001-11-30
US	45822499	R1369GFNBJLQVW	0671867423	534494015	Lincoln at Gettysburg: The Words That Remade America	Books	3	22	31	N	N	Not a history but a critique of Lincoln's Address	&quot;The cheek of every American must tingle with shame as he reads the silly, flat and dishwatery utterances of the man who has to be pointed out to intelligent foreigners as the President of the United States.&quot;<BR>  Although I give Wills' book only three stars, my review will not be as harsh as the above quote which the Chicago Tribune published soon after Lincoln's address in 1863.<BR>  Wills writes a invaluable piece of literature about the Gettysburg Address and very much deserved the Pulitzer Award; however, I forewarn prospective readers on the book that this is less history and more a critique on the Address itself.<BR>Wills painstakingly dissects Lincoln's speech line by line and even word by word. He examines the influence of the Greek Revival in the speech and compares sections of it to classic Greek writings. Wills also discusses the importance of God and death being referred to in the Address and also covers transcendentalism.<BR>  &quot;Lincoln at Gettysburg&quot; is a genuine appreciation of Lincoln's &quot;few appropriate remarks,&quot; but the history element, which I was seeking, wasn't all there. But I don't believe Wills ever intended this to be a historical review so before buying the book, know what you are looking for. If you want a history of the speech, what events led up to the Address and the reaction of the American people to it, I'd look elsewhere. However, anyone interested in speech classes, oratory skills or a literary examination of the Gettysburg Address and its influences, Wills' book will be the most complete and concise work on the subject and is the answer you have been looking for.<br />- A thumbs up to Wills for including Edward Everett's two-hour speech in the back of his book. While most of us have heard that Lincoln was not the featured speaker and spoke for only two minutes after Everett's saga on Nov. 19, it is not widely known what was said prior to Lincoln's closing. Wills includes in the Appendix Everett's entirespeech and gives us little doubt why Everett wrote to Lincoln the next day, &quot;I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near the central idea of the occasion, in two hours, as you did in two minutes.&quot;	2001-11-29
US	45822499	R1LR95IZBHRJDV	4900737399	589733327	Unit 731 - Testimony	Books	4	49	56	N	N	Powerful literature on disturing Japanese atrocities	Although the majority of literature on WWII atrocities focuses on Nazi Germany and it's &quot;Final Solution,&quot; other horrible acts were being committed as well in Asia by the Russians and Japanese.<BR>Among these were Stalin's Gulags, the Japanese comfort women, Bataan Death March and Rape of Nanking.<BR>  Gold's book, &quot;Unit 731: Testimony,&quot; takes a look at another wartime atrocity the Japanese have refused to own up to for the past 50 years: a program set up by the military to experiment with biological weapons on humans and other heinous human tortures that were expounded as &quot;scientific advancement.&quot;<BR>  Gold's book is divided into two sections, a Historical Overview in which he explains how the idea of a human experimentation lab began in the Russo-Japanese War and became a horrific reality due to one man, Ishii Shiro; and a second section in which testimonies are given on criminal acts by the participants, including researchers, Kenpeitai officers, nurses and professors.<BR>  The historical overview lays out factual groundwork of Unit 731 and gives explicit details on some of the experiments, including live autopsies, biological tests and frostbite trials; which is some of the most disturbing literature I have ever read. Even as the bilogical weapons scare makes the headlines today, Gold gives proof that this isn't a new event in the world as the Japanese unleashed fleas with the Cholera disease on the Chinese citizens.  After the war is over in 1945, Gold continues to explain how Unit 731 was covered up (with American help), and how some of the war-time criminals became wealthy professors and businessmen in Japan and set up world-wide companies like Green Cross. Gold also discusses the Japanese's unwillingness to admit their guilt about such crimes and how the majority of the Japanese citizens either don't know of their country's war-time atrocities or scoff at such notions as unfair accusations. (And people wonder how there are nut-jobs out there who dispute the Holocaust as ever happening.)<BR> The testimony section is equally as shocking in that the participants recall their brutal crimes with some even trying to defend their actions.<BR> Overall, this is a very disturbing and powerful book that I highly recommend. It's one of those books where the reader is shocked as they read the words and a book that will force the reader to keep thinking about it even if they are not reading it at the time. I can only give it four stars though in that as Gold cites very good sources on Unit 731, including personal testimony, he hints at some very serious allegations about the US during the Korean War, including biological bombs dropped by US Troops and the creation of the AIDS virus by the American military, that he gives no evidence to. To throw out accusations like that should force the author into making two choices - backing it up with facts, documents, or other info - or leaving it out of the book.	2001-11-16
US	45822499	R2BIZ9HI53RTQC	0865475105	53679096	Son of the Morning Star: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	5	78	83	N	N	Aimless journey through an American legend	Connell has one of the most unorthodox writing styles of any history writer I've read but somehow it works brilliantly. A proper chronological order is completely disregarded and Connell jumps all over the place, yet somehow is able to keep the reader right along with him. It reminds me of listening to an old Vet tell war stories and finish half a story and skip to something completely unrelated again and again and again until you can't remember where he originally started the conversation from. Yet, just like listening to the proud hero tell his tales, it is completely fascinating and you will hang on every word.<BR>A prime example of this is within the first ten pages of the book, Connell is writing about President Hayes' Court of Inquiry, three years AFTER the battle.<BR>  Another thing which Connell does masterfully is tell BOTH sides of the tale. The Dakota and 7th Cavalry are given equal weight throughout the book and the author pours pertinent information as well as trivial but entertaining facts at the reader. And along with giving biographies on Reno and Benteen, the reader learns just as much background information on Gall, Crazy Horse and Two Moon.<BR>  About the only person I suggest shy away from this book is a college student cramming for a paper because there's no way they'd be able to find the needed info with Connell's writing style. However, if they don't procrastinate and began reading at the beginning of the semester, I promise you won't find another book with more info on the subject.<BR>-Warning-<BR>If you do read &quot;Son of the Morning Star,&quot; be prepared to take a trip out to the high plains of Montana to see the battlefield. Connell's book instilled a 'must-see' desire into me on having to see the Bighorn for myself and I plan to go next summer. See you there!	2001-11-10
US	45822499	R29U0XL3WMYWFM	080613190X	92500349	Let Me Be Free: The Nez Perce Tragedy	Books	4	5	7	N	N	More on the Nez Perce tribe than Chief Joseph's flight	First off, contrary to earlier reviewers, this book has NOTHING to do with the Lewis and Clark expedition. Out of the 350 pages in the book, they might be mentioned a half dozen times and one might want to get Lavender's &quot;The Way to the Western Sea,&quot; if interested on Meriweather and William's trip.<BR>Instead, &quot;Let me Be Free,&quot; is on the Nez Perce tribe which lived in Oregon's Wallowa Valley until it was forced from the land in the 1860's. This is a great book if the reader is interested in a century's worth of history about the tribe but I'd suggest something else if the intent on reading this is solely learning about Chief Joseph's tragic flight from the US military in 1877. <BR>  I originally got into Lavender's works after reading his fantastic book, &quot;Bents' Fort&quot; which is about the trading family of William Bent in SE Colorado. I had no interest in the subject but was recommended the book and I fell fully immersed into it because of Lavender's detailed writing-style and ability to create real identities to the historical characters instead of just giving names and dates. He has the same writing style in &quot;Let Me Be Free,&quot; and will never shy from a unimportant but lighthearted side story. The writing is anything but dry.<BR>  The first half of LMBF is on how the tribe lived and existed, its neighbors, and its relations with the first whites to reach Oregon. Lavender has a contentious understanding of the western Native American tribes and writes in a fair and unbiased reader-friendly style and includes the correct names and terms the Nez Perce (Nimipu) used.<BR>  The last 100 pages cover Chief Joseph's (Hin-mah-too-yah-lat-kehht's) flight and includes a fantastic map in the front for the reader to follow the tribe along on its failed march to freedom.<BR>  The book fails to get five stars from me because I was most interested in the Nez Perce march and it just took too long to finally reach that subject in the book. It reminded me of &quot;Undaunted Courage,&quot; (Ambrose's book on Meriweather Lewis) where there is no much buildup to the expedition that once the reader finally reaches it in the book, it falls a bit flat. However, if anyone is interested on the Nez Perce tribe itself, you won't find a better book. Any Western Oregon historians would also immensely enjoy this work.	2001-11-09
US	45822499	R1RJMYMKYV942F	0060921161	719751141	None Died in Vain: The Saga of the American Civil War	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Acceptable introduction to the Civil War	I read Leckie's &quot;Delivered From Evil,&quot; a few years ago and was blown away with the amount of WWII knowledge packed into one book. When I heard about &quot;None Died in Vain,&quot; I was eager to dive into it and find the same results as &quot;DFE,&quot; but unfortunately, I didn't quite get it.<br />Not that I didn't enjoy Leckie's take on the Civil War but when I finished, I found myself asking for more. &quot;None Died in Vain&quot;, which is written in Leckie's very interesting and reader-friendly, borderline-novel style is a good general overview of the Civil War but it does not dive as deep into the conflict as I had hoped. A good example of this is that he wrote 47 pages on the Battle of Gettysburg, one of, if not THE, most important battle in the war. Yet for the Battle of Chickamauga, Leckie covers the military operations of that fight in just three pages even though it happened to be the bloodiest two-day battle in the entire war! He also glosses over the Battle of Brandy Station, one of the largest Cavalry conflicts in history and skips entirely over major Western battles like Brices Cross Roads and Tupelo. I got the feeling at the end of the book that he was ready to wrap things up too (he wrote 135 pages on events happening before Ft. Sumter, a great lead-in, but wrote just 29 pages about events after Appamattox with nothing on reconstruction).<br />Examples like this kept me frustrated while reading the book but Leckie's engaging style of writing still kept me entertained. Leckie does hit all the major points and like in his other books, gives brief biographies on all the major players.<br />I would suggest this book to anyone who is a huge Leckie fan and can't get enough of his writing or to someone who has always asked the question &quot;What exactly was the Civil War all about?&quot; and wants to read just one book about the subject but has more class than buying an &quot;Idiot's Guide to the Civil War&quot;. For someone who wants more on the Civil War, look into works by Shelby Foote, Bruce Catton or James McPherson.Civil War, look into works by Shelby Foote, Bruce Catton or James McPherson.	2001-11-08
US	45822499	R3JZG2W3EHD72B	0870448781	996884564	National Geographic Guide to Civil War National Battlefield Parks	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Packed with info and high quality maps	My original intent on purchasing this book was to use it as a atlas to accompany a large Civil War novel I was reading which had very generic maps. Instead, I got much more.<BR>The two authors, who have lengthy resumes in Civil War studies, have provided ample information in this book to give the reader a vast understanding of the battlefield site, its involvement in the war, and what services are at the site today to help your visit to it.<br /> 23 National Battlefields are covered in full detail with a number of smaller venue sites like National Historic Landmarks having basic info listed (phone numbers and addresses).<BR>The book is split up into chapters which cover each state that had an official Civil War engagement within its borders. The chapters begin with a brief introduction on what role the state served in the war. These two-page introductions pack a ton of interesting facts into them including number of troops and generals involved from that state, casualties, number of engagements in the state's borders, importance of the state to the Union or CSA and why it aligned to the side it fought for.<BR>After the introduction, each major battle is covered in 2-5 pages by:<BR>- a summary by the authors as to what happened, why it happened where it did and what the victor got out of the battle.<BR>- fantastic, color maps showing troop movements, key geographical features and terrain type.<BR>- wonderful photographs that live up to the well-respected reputation that National Geographic has always had with its periodical pics.<BR>- park information including directions to the NPS headquarters, phone numbers and addresses for the Park, schedule, entrance fee, points of interests, tours, and nearby historic inns to stay at.<BR>  I highly recommend this to anyone planning a tour of battlesites because it gives you a detailed history of the past with outstanding visuals, and the info of the battlefield in the present that a visitor needs to make their trip an enjoyable one.	2001-11-08
US	45822499	R3REANHWV4U49Q	0921102704	10951027	Not Won in a Day: Climbing Canada's Highpoints	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Taking highpointing to the limit	As a U.S. highpointer (my number is 14 as of 8/01), I wondered if anyone had tackled the Canadian highpoints yet and once I found Bennett's book, I got my answer.<BR>For any highpointer who does U.S. spots like Iowa's Hawkeye Point or even Utah's King's Peak, the Canadian summits are typical highpointing trips, but to the extreme limit. Bennett gives a good chapter description of each summit attempt and includes pictures to let interested parties know what they are in store for. And frankly, none look to easy. <br />Among the Canadian highpoint adventures are a world-class mountaineering expedition (Mt. Logan in the Yukon), a 4-wheel mud-bogging drive through the Canadian shield (Saskatchewan), a orienteering nightmare in Nova Scotia, a canoeing portage trip through the backwoods of Ontario, an Arctic adventure at the top of the world (Nunavut) and a technical climbing test in some of the most remote country in North America (Mt. Nirvana in the Northwest Territories).<br />Bennett does attempt to give the reader some trail maps and directions to each summit but they are a bit confusing and not as precise as the directions in the Winger's U.S. Highpointing Handbook. Then again, Bennett must think no one is crazy enough to try and repeat his feat, especially after reading about his close calls in the book.<BR>I ripped through this book in two days and was begging for more info afterwards. It is a highly addicting read and the reader will start to get the all-to-common 'highpointing itch' about half-way through th book.<br />A great book, I highly recommend it, and who knows, maybe we will be discussing it atop Mt. Fairweather someday.<br />Happy highpointing!	2001-09-14
US	45822499	RTK6KFC47H66J	0345400534	713125021	Inside Oscar, 10th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THE definitive reference tool for ALL Oscar fans!	For everyone who gets 'movie madness' every March by eagerly anticipating Oscar night, this is a must-own book. It is the bible of Oscar knowledge and includes every nomination and winner from 1927 until the mid-90's. It is by far the greatest Academy Award reference tool that is available and just by paging through the nominee list in the back for a few minutes, your video rental list will grow by the foot.<BR>  The first portion gives the reader a quick history lesson including how the illustrious Academy began and how the golden statue got his trademark name. Following that, every year gets its own chapter in which the authors tell of the studio campaigns to get their films nominated, what the critics and gossip writers were reporting at the time, and who got a nominee and who got screwed. The chapter ends with an &quot;Oscar Night,&quot; section, which  goes down to the most minute detail of each Awards ceremony from the lame jokes the host tried to crack (&quot;U-ma, O-prah!&quot;),to the most flubbed speeches, embarrassing dance performances (Rob Lowe and Snow White?!), timeless quotes (&quot;You like me, you really like me!&quot;) and hideous dresses. It also gives the list of presenters and the highlights of the post-Awards parties.<BR>  The back though, with the nominee history, is easily my favorite and one can spent countless hours paging through and remembering the classic films of years past or debating with friends about who got robbed in the best supporting category in 1962. I like to use the back as a checklist of what I've seen and need to see next. <BR>  My paperback edition is thoroughly warped and I hope the authors put out a new edition or else mine is going to fall apart soon. A warning though, the book does get rather depressing in April because that means there's 11 more months until next year's big show!	2001-09-14
US	45822499	R33SKJHY9RN2IM	0520024087	179876481	A History of the Habsburg Empire, 1526-1918	Books	1	16	23	N	N	Dry critique on Empire	There is a reason why this book is out-of-print. It's as dry a book as I've ever read and is much more a critique on the Hapsburg Empire and less of a historical overview. The title implies that Kann will introduce the reader to the Central Europeon Power and detail much of the family's power over Europe but that's far from the case. Instead, Kann goes so in depth to pick apart the Hapsburg's, that impossible to keep track of where he's going. Although the chapters have a chronological order to them, Kann mentions events that happened during a five-hundred year span in the first three chapters and aimlessly wanders so much through the text, he should be arrested for reckless writing. Some writers can pull off writing like this and make it into a masterpiece (Son of the Morning Star by Evan S. Connell comes to mind), Kann simply makes it into a field of landmines in which the reader unexpectedly will step onto a trap and utter &quot;Whaaat?&quot; and have to skip back to try and figure out if Kann has a connection to the previous paragrapgh or if he's just writing instantaneous thoughts. Kann's rambling book reminds me of Paul Thomas Anderson movies - it's made purely to pleasure the writer while the rest of the world has its hands in the air wondering &quot;What did I just read/ watch?&quot;	2001-01-31
US	45822499	RXF9CDVA6ORQD	0070283931	478157553	America's Longest War: The United States and Vietnam, 1950-1975	Books	4	83	89	N	N	Herring focuses on diplomacy	Unlike most Vitenam books, America's Longest War chooses to examine the diplomacy element of the war instead of the typical military aspects of the conflict. I was assigned this as a textbook in my Vietnam War class in college and was surprised by the lack of military coverage in it. About two chapters into ALW, I realized that Herring was concentrating on what happened behind closed doors during the war  and then it became more easy to understand.  Herring also introduces the reader to the movers and shakers of the war and their reasoning behind their decisions. He also starts back with Truman's administration in dealing with French Indo-China and you get the story from the very beginning. Other books typically gloss over Truman and Ike and like to start in LBJ's administration.<br />Herring also informs the reader that contrary to the current popular opinion, JFK was NOT going to get out of Vietnam because he chose to let the aggressive Henry Cabot Lodge make key decisions in escalating the United States' involvement in South Vietnam. The reader begins to understand that the US lost the war in the diplomatic and political theaters and not on the battlefield. After all, the US military's job was to keep communists from taking over South Vietnam and while US troops were deployed in the country, that objective never happened. <br />I highly recommend this book to anybody interested in the Vietnam conflict. Although there is no coverage on military engagements, troop life, or popular battles like Khe Sanh and Dienbienphu, this book will give the reader answers on why we were there and who was making the decisions on what we did in Southeast Asia.	2001-01-26
US	45822499	R23N8VVJGJ815Z	067125538X	622554403	World Rushed In	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Swain's personal account feels like a novel	Thank heavens for people like William Swain who took the time to record their personal stories and let it become, in a sense, a first-person history tale to people in the 21st century. Swain goes into great detail about his trials and tribulations and you begin to care so much about him, it almost becomes a novel. It accidentally sets the reader up for disappointment in the end by Swain reaching home and the story suddenly stopping. You'll find yourself asking, how did Eliza greet her papa? What did Swain do with the meager amount of money he made? What was Sabrina and her husband's first words to each other after an almost two-year absence? Of course, it's not Swain's fault for ending his diary at home. He merely kept the journal to update his family on his journey; not give readers 150 years later an autobiography. Holliday can not answer these final questions either and rightfully so, he does not try. You are left to ponder how it ended and hopefully, after reading so many emotional passages from William and Sabrina, you can use your imagination to answer the homecoming questions.<br />Holliday blends the information together wonderfully by arranging each chapter into three sections:<br />1. an overall historical account<br />2. Swain's diary<br />3. A Back Home section in which letters written to Swain from wife Sabrina and brother George are included.<br />The format works splendidly for the reader and keeps everything in a proper time frame. Holliday also includes scaled-down regional maps for every chapter which lets the reader follow along on a microcosm/macrocosm scope of the total journey. Holliday has also laboriously researched hundreds of other personal diaries and includes passages from them when Swain leaves gaps or when a quirky story can be added to intrigue the reader further. The World Rushed In is a fast read and I recommend it to anyone who is interested in Western US history or is just looking for a great story.	2001-01-25
US	45822499	REPG3N92ES1Q8	0684848090	280599935	Pillar of Fire : America in the King Years 1963-65	Books	4	29	34	N	N	High Quality but not Branch's best	As most other reviewers, I too was eager to get into Pillar of Fire after a friend recommended his first book to me, Parting the Waters. Although POF is an excellent, thoroughly written book by Branch, it just misses the superb quality of PTW.  What PTW gave us about the backgrounds of the central figures and the story line of key incidents, I felt POF was missing some of that and that Branch just couldn't get himself out of the White House documents. Not that I'm trying to dimiss JFK and LBJ's civil rights commentary as frivilous, but I wanted more of the front line drama out of St. Augustine, Florida, Meridian, Mississippi and other hot spots. The other thing I wish Branch would have included was more about Malcom X's background and how he became a muslim in prison.  <br />Aside from my nit-picking, I really enjoyed this book and will definitely read the third installment. Although the White House chapters were a bit too long at times, it was fascinating to learn of Hoover's under-handed tactics to try and quell the movement and hunt out the 'Communists' that influenced MLK. I guess we had our very own NKVD police force right here in America during Hoover's days in power. I had heard inklings of the black-mail suicide tape Hoover sent MLK and was glad Branch gave the full story. Another great aspect of Branch's writings is how he touches on all of the movement groups such as SNCC, CORE, SCLC, etc. Branch gives Bob Moses' actions in Mississippi the credit it deserves whereas so many other writers just seem to gloss over his contributions.<br />Contrary to a few reviewer's complaints, Branch's writing style is NOT hard to follow (even though he jumps around quite a bit) and this is NOT a hard book to read. It reads like any other high-quality historical work so if you're expecting it to read like Harry Potter, you might want to stick to Brokaw's history books. Normally, I'd give a book like this five stars but because I know Branch can do better (like Parting the Waters), I can only give it four.<br />On a side note, if any reader wants a better idea on who Taylor Branch is, check out Spike Lee's documentary &quot;4 Little Girls&quot; on the Birmingham church bombing. Branch does some commentary work in it.	2001-01-20
US	45822499	R27KD1ZPNGYC2J	0929387058	344328469	Timberwolves: Stalk the Nba Obsession : Bill Musselman's Relentless Quest to Beat the Best	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Not Pulitzer worthy but good if you were a fan of Musselman	With Bill's recent passing, I'm glad I read this bio on him to learn a little about the man who coached two of my favorite teams- the Gophers and T-Wolves. If you're a hoops junkie, you'll definitely dig this book with all the funny little stories Bill has about his college and CBA days.  I give it only three stars though because it's your proverbial sports biography book and the writing is well...shall we say, not going to win any Pulitzers anytime soon. Heller will refer to something time and time again in the book, but not give you the full story until 100 pages after first referring to it. Case in point being the 1972 Minnesota-Ohio State fight which he constantly brings up, but nevers gets fully into until halfway through the book. It's a frustrating style of writing, but then again, so was Bill's defensive coaching style in the NBA (just ask Pooh Richardson). Not much is written about his T-Wolf days either with the book coming out just before the inaugural season began in 1989. Aside from the poor writing and lack of coverage during Bill's Timberwolf tenure, I'd say the book is worth reading if you followed a Musselman-coached team, especially the Gophers program. When Heller finally does write about the 1972 fight, it is the most comprehensive amount of info I've seen on it and he talks to a number of participants. I wasn't born at the time of the fight, but had always heard about it and never quite got the full story until reading this book. Hopefully though, Bill will be remembered for more than the Buckeye-Gopher skirmish like his 1972 Big ten championship, four consecutive CBA titles and tenacity of being the hardest-working coach in the NBA. Flip Saunders said that the popularity of basketball in the state of Minnesota would not be where it is without Bill and he's right with how Bill sold-out Williams arena every night and got fans interested with the Globetrotter-esque warm-ups. So thanks Bill for the memories and thanks Bill Heller for giving us fansa view into who that frenzied coach on the sidelines really was.	2001-01-11
US	45822499	R3GWMUZFCF287U	0803257538	603227983	Bent's Fort	Books	4	35	37	N	N	A must for Old west buffs	I flew through Bent's Fort in a week after it was recommended to me by a friend. I wasn't all that interested in the topic but I decided to read a few chapters and give it a try. I instantly became hooked. Bent's fort gives the reader an inside look into the West BEFORE it became the stuff of lore (i.e. Lincoln County War, Pat Garrett, Custer, etc.). Lavender starts with the mountain men roaming the Missouri and Rockies and their relationship with the Plains indians. His knowledge of the Indians (specifically the Cheyenne tribe), really brings the sometimes forgotten native people, down to a personal level. Most of the book centers around the Bent family and its fort located in SE Colorado between 1820 - 1870. With the Bent's into trading, much is also written about St. Louis, Santa Fe, Taos and the Arkansas and Cimarron Rivers . What I really liked about the book is the personal level Lavender gets the Old west characters down to. It feels like you know William Bent, Kit Carson and Yellow Wolf. A great deal of the book also deals with Mexico and the trader's relationship with the country up to the Mexican War and after the US gained possession of the territory. One thing that really surprised me was the amount of small, sporadic fights that went on between the Indians, the Mexicans and the whites. Lavender writes about all the small skirmishes, what precipitated them, and how things cooled off into a peaceful state again. If you do plan to read Bent's Fort, I suggest you do so with an atlas handy. Lavender writes about hundreds of places in the Southwest and it's hard to get a gauge as to where the events occurred unless you have an atlas. Also, if you are reading this book for reference material, do not plan to cite dates of events. Because the Bent's did not keep journals, many of the years listed for when things happened are just educated guesses. It's fine for the reader but if you're working on a college paper, it could be a headache. I recommend this book toany history buff who wants to know what the West was like when it was first discovered by whites and how their relationships were with the Indians and Mexicans. Lavender also gives the reader a feeling on how it was to venture out to an unknown land and what chores were needed to do daily to survive. Just remember you atlas before starting!	2001-01-10
