US	45838740	R1LZX62WDB7HFW	0785117148	84525952	X-Men: The Complete Age of Apocalypse Epic, Book 1	Books	2	35	41	N	N	Fantastic storyline, poorly packaged	Of all the storylines (many of which were actually pretty lame) to occur during the 90's run of various X-Men books, nothing was better than the Age of Apocalypse.  The Age of Apocalypse storyline (has it really been 10 years?) began when Professor Xavier's illegitamite son David \\"Legion\\" Haller traveled back in time to kill Magneto so his father's dream of human and mutant unity would come true.  Legion accidnetly killed Xavier, thus altering history forever.  In an era of no X-Men, Apocalypse took over America, and the only ones to oppose him are Magneto and his team of X-Men.  The alternate reality setting surprisingly worked out well, as heroes became villains (Cyclops, Beast, Havok), villains became heroes (Sabretooth), and classic characters were given apocalyptic (no pun intended) makeovers.  Marvel has decided to re-print the complete epic in seperate volumes, but sadly, Book 1 doesn't include any of the various 4-issue series' that replaced the regular X-books (Astonishing X-Men, Amazing X-Men, Weapon X, Factor-X, Generation Next, X-Calibre, Gambit & The X-Ternals, X-Man, etc.) but instead compiles various one-shots, a special X-Man issue, and the Blink mini-series among others.  As a previous reviewer stated, the AOA storyline should have been re-printed the way it was originally released, beginning with the intro X-Men: Alpha one-shot, the various series', and the finale X-Men: Omega, with the issues collected here scattered between.  The issues collected here aren't bad, including the Factor-X one-shot in which Cyclops meets his real father Corsair, with tragic results that really show how dystopian this alternate reality is.  All in all, if you missed these issues and were a fan of the storyline, you may want to give this a look, but it's up to you if it is worth laying down this much cash for it.	2005-10-11
US	45838740	RGP6DVJ1TBYCS	1401207219	540900899	Space Ghost	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Space Ghost reborn	Back in the 60's/70's, Space Ghost was one of many Hanna Barbera Saturday morning cartoon super heroes that were, needless to say, quite cheesy.  In the 90's, he was re-born as an animated talk show host in the wonderful spoof Space Ghost: Coast to Coast on Cartoon Network, and now, Space Ghost is re-born once again as a brooding hero in this TPB.  Joe Kelly gives Space Ghost a tragic past as a good cop in a corrupt system whose pregnant wife is murdered and he is left for dead.  He survives, and with the use of alien technology, becomes Space Ghost and sets out for his revenge.  However, when he learns of a planet in grave danger, his heroic nature comes full circle.  No, this Space Ghost isn't family friendly and it's not funny, and it's not meant to be.  Kelly's storytelling is solid, albeit predictable, while Ariel Olivetti's art is beautifully textured.  Longtime fans of the character will notice other classic Space Ghost characters as well, including siblings Jan and Jayce, and the evil mantis-like villain Zorak.  All in all, if you're a fan of Space Ghost, whether it be the original show or Coast to Coast, give this a look.	2005-10-07
US	45838740	R6Z0B3QWST3VI	078511520X	401346275	X-Men/Fantastic Four	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Unbelievably bad, avoid	It's a wonder why Marvel keeps giving Akira Yoshida work.  Besides his travesty \\"re-working\\" of the classic X-Men Age of Apocalypse storyline, Yoshida scripted this team up of the X-Men and the Fantastic Four.  Apparently, there's trouble in space with the Brood, and the FF need the X-Men's help to deal with it, resulting in a space trip with the Thing, Invisible Woman, Wolverine, Emma Frost, Nightcrawler, and Gambit in tow.  Upon re-entry into Earth's atmosphere, the four X-Men are transformed with new powers similar to that of the FF, and they all begin to go insane.  The plot is non-existant enough, but Yoshida's dialogue is atrocious.  Beloved characters like Nightcrawler and Gambit either become annoying or don't say much at all, while the art by Pat Lee and the bankrupt Dreamwave Studios (that's another story) is overrated to say the least.  The characters look clunky and sloppyily designed, but I've never been much of a fan of Lee's, so others may dig it.  All in all, X-Men/Fantastic Four isn't even worth checking out for fans of either team book, and this is much better left on the shelf.	2005-10-04
US	45838740	R22U7N40PP4B5R	1401202020	439245217	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Son of Man	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Going down, all the way down...	Preacher creator Garth Ennis' brief return to writing Hellblazer wound up being this storyarc collected here, which why it may not be his best work on Hellblazer, it's certainly an admirable work.  Son of Man finds chain smoking, master of black magic John Constantine struggling to save the life of his best mate Chas Chandler when he's wrongfully implicated in a botched murder, and soon enough Constantine is left to fend off a demonic child, who he resurrected years earlier, with the fate of the world in the balance.  Don't pay too much attention to the negative reviews here, Son of Man is worth reading for fans of Hellblazer and Ennis, just don't expect another Dangerous Habits or anything influential (bits and pieces of the overall storyline were supposedly used in the recent, and pretty much not well received, big budget adaptation), but despite all that it's still a more than solid and horriffic tale in the Hellblazer mythos.  The only other downpoint of Son of Man is that the art (by Ennis' Pride & Joy partner John Higgins) doesn't suit it too well, but if you can get past that, you'll find some enjoyment here.	2005-09-29
US	45838740	R2IBNJL36DW4TA	0743498216	585960467	Horrorscape: New Masterpieces of Horror, Vol. 1 (New Materpieces of Horror) (v. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fast and fun horror anthology	This first volume in a collected short horror story collection features some genuinely chilling tales from 12 different writers.  While not every story featured here is a masterpiece, Horrorscape sure has some great tales that horror fans will eat up.  Psycho writer Robert Bloch's \\"The Chaney Legacy\\" revolves around the makeup kit of legendary horror icon Lon Chaney, and something nasty that comes with it.  Harlan Ellison's \\"Soft Monkey\\" is surprisingly suspenseful and has a dynamite climax, while the promising Nina Kiriki Hoffman's \\"The Third Dead Body\\" lures you in with a different take on the conception of zombie horror.  The standout of this collection is undoubtadly Joe R. Lansdale's \\"Night They Missed the Horror Show\\", which revolves around two redneck teens bored to death and looking for fun, and they get much, much more than they bargained for.  This story alone is worth giving Horrorscape a look, and proves that real horror doesn't have to be supernatural to be effective.  Ray Bradbury's \\"The Troll\\" attempts to be a slightly dark fairy tale, but it doesn't work as well as it should.  The other stories here, by Connie Willis, F. Paul Wilson, Charles Grant, William Nolan, Steve Rasnic Tem, Gregory Nicoll, and Elizabeth Massie, all have their up's and down's, but there isn't a bad tale in the bunch.  All in all, if you're into horror or if you're a fan of any of the aforementioned writers, check this out.	2005-09-26
US	45838740	R1SRJDXSAQTBCC	1401203086	28868844	Teen Titans Vol. 1: A Kid's Game	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Teen Titans Reborn	Fan favorite writer Geoff Johns (Flash, JSA, Green Lantern: Rebirth) re-launches the once popular Teen Titans for a new era, and it works.  Just to let you know, if you are familiar with the \\"Teen Titans Go!\\" animated kids show, this is far from that, as Johns pays wonderful homage to the classic old Teen Titans series from Marv Wolfman and George Perez as a new team is formed, and things don't go as well for these kids as one would hope.  Old members Cyborg, Starfire, and Beast Boy organize this new group, which now includes Robin (Tim Drake), Superboy (the half-human clone of Superman), a new Wonder Girl, Kid Flash (formerly Impulse), and later joined by the re-incarnated original member Raven (who actually joins later in the series).  As the kids struggle with themselves and their new surroundings, an old foe re-surfaces as Deathstroke returns with a simple and bloody message: \\"kid's shouldn't wear costumes\\".  Johns knows what he's doing here, crafting a surprisingly solid story that is easy for new readers who aren't familiar with past Teen Titans continuity to get into, while the art by Mike McKone and co. is wonderfully illustrated.  It's certainly not a comic masterpiece, but this first volume in the re-launched Teen Titans is fun, full of action, and definitely worth picking up for fans new and old.	2005-09-23
US	45838740	R1LRRUSNJMGQNO	1401206883	498835016	Identity Crisis	Books	4	17	25	N	N	Murder, secrets, and the dark side of the DC universe	Best selling novelist and one time Green Arrow scribe Brad Meltzer weaves this best selling mini-series, which attempts to begin to turn the DC universe on it's ear.  Identity Crisis focuses on the risks that one takes when they choose to become a costumed super hero, and the murder mystery that Meltzer weaves makes a majority of Identity Crisis a page turner.  It begins with the murder of Sue Dibny, wife of Justice Leaguer Ralph Dibny AKA the Elongated Man.  Soon enough, Ralph joins up with other Leaguers Green Arrow, Flash, Zatanna, Black Canary, Hawkman, the Atom, and Green Lantern to find Dr. Light, who he believes to be the killer because years ago, Light raped Sue.  The reason nobody outside of this group knows this happened, is because through Zatanna's magic, Light was made to forget it ever happened, and in the process, his mind was changed forever from fearsome villain to laughable clown.  This revelation opens up a floodgate of secrets and lies, including more murders, and the fact that the killer knows the real identities of the heroes, even those of Superman and Batman.  You've got to give Meltzer credit where credit is due: no one has ever cared what's happend to a minor character like Sue Dibny before, and the murder mystery he weaves here is great to say the least.  The fight between the aforementioned group and Deathstroke is just plain awesome, and it re-affirms the villain's place as the most deadly foe in the DC universe.  However, by the time the final revelations are made, it almost betrays everything that came before it.  Purist DC fans will either love it or hate it, but Identity Crisis only serves as a prelude for the upcoming Infinite Crisis in which the villains strike back (notice how it comes nearly 20 years after Crisis on Infinite Earths).  The art by penciler Rags Morales and inker Mike Bair isn't anything real special, but it serves it's purpose trying to give the characters a realistic/less cartoony look.  All in all, Identity Crisis is worth reading just because of it's premise and the promise it will shake up the DC universe (we've heard this before, but so far, so good), but for those who tuned out years ago when DC tried to be edgy by killing Superman, breaking Batman, and making Green Lantern Hal Jordan a mass murderer, this won't help how you feel.s is worth reading just because of it's premise and the promise it will shake up the DC universe (we've heard this before, but so far, so good), but for those who tuned out years ago when DC tried to be edgy by killing Superman, breaking Batman, and making Green Lantern Hal Jordan a mass murderer, this won't help how you feel.	2005-09-20
US	45838740	RYZ3V51FCGFP4	0785109102	685524813	Ghost Rider: The Hammer Lane TPB	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Disappointing, lame Ghost Rider re-launch	Undoubtadly one of the just plain coolest looking characters in Marvel's who stable is Ghost Rider, but sadly, the stories involving the character haven't been anything too special.  This TPB finds original former Ghost Rider Johnny Blaze once again fused with the Spirit of Vengeance to allow him to become the flame skulled, motorcycle riding, demonic hero.  Sadly though, the Hammer Lane isn't what Ghost Rider fans had been looking for, and the story by Devin Grayson (Black Widow, Batman: War Games) is by far the worst she has ever written.  And then, there is the art.  As a previous reviewer mentioned, the art (I can't remember the guy's name, honestly) is loaded with obscure looking character models and cartoony graphics.  Ghost Rider doesn't look fearsome here, he looks like a cartoon.  Do yourself a favor, if you're a Ghost Rider fan, skip this, and instead check out the Essential Ghost Rider TPB, or Howard Mackie's 90's re-launch that wasn't that bad.  And while you're at it, be sure to check out Preacher creator and Punisher writer Garth Ennis' current re-launch of the character, which actually manages to take Ghost Rider back to his roots.	2005-09-18
US	45838740	R3UOAALZ0T8I7N	0785116508	84525952	X-Men: Golgotha	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A step in the right direction	Unusally gifted writer Peter Milligan seems to get nothing but lame work at Marvel since his brilliant X-Statix series was cancelled.  Since then, he's done the Punisher movie adpation, a Wolverine/Punisher mini-series, and a Venom VS Carnage mini as well.  They are definitely nothing to write home about, but now Milligan has the chance to prove his talents on X-Men.  Taking over for departed scribe Chuck Austen (thankfully), Milligan crafts a story involving Havok, Polaris, Iceman, Rogue, and Gambit stumbling upon alien beings that can cause irrational feelings and fears to come out in mutants, leading them to go homicidal.  Later joined by Wolverine (of course) and Emma Frost (who actually is a welcome supporting character here), Golgotha isn't the best X-Men arc you'll read or the best material by Milligan, but compared to the mellow-dramatic stories from Austen, this is a step in the right direction.  The art by Salvador Larroca is excellently done as always, and is the best thing about this TPB.  All in all, if you're an X-Men fan and you missed out on the single issues, this is worth a look, but with other and better X-Men TPB's out there (such as Joss Whedon's Astonishing X-Men and Grant Morrison's modern day classic New X-Men), this is better left on the shelf.	2005-09-16
US	45838740	R2XZBJ8PK1JB9G	0785110402	631802334	Fantastic Four: 1234 (Marvel Knights)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Brilliant, dystopian take on Marvel's first family	The bastard brainchild of comic god Alan Moore, Grant Morrison gives Marvel's first family a realistic, dark, and dystopian look as the Fantastic Four are slowly being pulled apart.  Dr. Doom makes his ultimate attempt to destroy the team at their weakest: Reed \\"Mr. Fantastic\\" Richards has locked himself inside his \\"think tank\\", Sue \\"Invisible Woman\\" Richards feels neglected, Johnny \\"Human Torch\\" Storm thinks of nothing but himself, and Ben \\"The Thing\\" Grimm is tired of being a monster.  One by one, they fall as Doom launches a plot with the Mole Man and Namor the Sub-Mariner, beginning with Ben finally getting his wish to be human again, and Namor seemingly getting Sue.  Morrison, who re-energized the X-Men for a new era, and crafted a modern day classic with the Filth for Vertigo, is at his best here as he deconstructs the team, and in the end, weaves some of the most heroic acts to be seen in a Fantastic Four comic in years.  Artist Jae Lee (Hulk/Thing: Hard Knocks, Inhumans, the Sentry) provides simply stunning work here that must be seen to be believed.  All in all, this TPB is a must read for FF fans, and those who may have never liked Marvel's first family but like Morrison's stories should definitely check this out.	2005-09-15
US	45838740	R2OL1X2YAGEW4U	0785115773	131108667	Doctor Strange: Beginnings and Endings (New Avengers)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Doctor Strange reborn	Spinning out of the events of Amazing Spider-Man #500, this mini-series finds Amazing Spider-Man and Supreme Power scribe and Babylon 5 creator J. Michael Straczynski teaming up with Doctor Spectrum writer Sara \\"Samm\\" Barnes to re-imagine the origin of Marvel's sorcerer supreme, Doctor Strange.  Make no mistake, this is a re-imagining of his origin, but this is no Ultimate book.  Beginnings and Endings begins with young, promising, and arrogant future surgeon Stephen Strange living a life of luxury unaware of his true destiny.  After a chance encounter with a sickly, apparently mute young man named Wong, and a tragic skiing accident in which he loses the full ability of the use of his hands, Strange's life begins a spiraling downfall.  Unable to find a solution to fix his hands, he encounters a man calling himself the Ancient One, and the course is set for Stephen Strange to become sorcerer supreme: whether he wants to or not.  Other characters fans of Strange are familiar with, including the evil Baron Mordo, are here as well, and all together, Straczynski and Barnes weave a more than solid re-imagining of the classic character's origin.  Brandon Petersen's pencils are solid for the most part as well, even though some of the action scenes don't look as good as one would hope.  All in all, this TPB is more than worth a look for fans of the good Doctor, and it's also a great starting point for new fans to the character.	2005-09-14
US	45838740	R2Z31ESSOBU5EP	0785115862	651168020	Doctor Spectrum: Full Spectrum TPB	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Solid Supreme Power spin off	Collecting the six issue Doctor Spectrum mini-series, this spin-off of J. Michael Straczynski's Supreme Power reveals the dark past of Corporal Joe Ledger, a soldier who becomes bonded with a mysterious and powerful crystal that arrived with the government brainwashed superhuman Hyperion when he crash landed on Earth as a child.  Once the crystal bonds with Ledger, he goes into a lengthy coma, and as Joe endures an internal struggle, the powers that be outside decide what is more worth saving: Joe or the crystal?  Writer Samm Barnes, who served as Straczynski's writing partner on the Strange mini-series and who he hand picked to write this series, does a solid job weaving a tale to coincide with the events of Supreme Power.  Newcomer Travel Foreman's pencils do the job for the most part, but they are nothing compared to Gary Frank.  That aside, this is still a great read, and for those who can't get enough of Supreme Power, this is definitely worth picking up.	2005-09-13
US	45838740	R39GG8NFVN8V3G	078511677X	564519090	Astonishing X-Men, Vol. 2: Dangerous	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Joss and John continue to astonish	Collecting the second half of Joss Whedon and John Cassaday's first year run on Astonishing X-Men, Dangerous finds the Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Serenity creator weaving another superbly done tale starring Marvel's merry mutants.  Beginning with a team up with the Fantastic Four, the X-Men are re-grouped and re-organized with Colossus back in the fold.  However, there is something very wrong with the X-Men's training facility, the Danger Room, and now it has manifested itself as a sentient being with intentions of killing the X-Men, and most of all their creator, Charles Xavier.  While Dangerous isn't as jaw dropping or surprising as Whedon and Cassaday's first arc, Dangerous proves to be a just plain great X-Men story, with Whedon taking Wolverine, Cyclops, Emma, Shadowcat, Beast, and Colossus to new heights.  Not to mention that by the time Professor X enters the fray, it is undoubtadly the most fearsome and powerful the character has been written in some time.  Planetary artist John Cassaday continues to impress with his dynamite art, giving the book a cutting edge look.  All in all, Dangerous continues the astonishing (no pun intended) first year of Whedon and Cassaday, and by the time you reach the surprise last page, you'll be begging for more.	2005-09-09
US	45838740	R3LMYF64CN2U3I	0785110933	134471479	The Ultimates 2, Vol. 1: Gods and Monsters	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The consequences of being on a government funded super hero team	The long awaited new tales of the Ultimates are finally here.  The first volume, plagued by shipping delays which spaced issues months between each other, achieved excellence during it's second half.  As this arc starts off (with the series being re-titled Ultimates 2), writer Mark Millar and artist Bryan Hitch weave a complicated new threat to the government funded super team, with consequences for all involved.  Hank Pym is off the team and no longer Giant Man.  He assumes a new identity as Ant-Man, and continues to make progress on his Ultron creation (longtime Avengers readers know where this is headed), and later has a tenure on the ill-fated Defenders team.  In the meantime, the Ultimates themselves are enjoying their lives as super hero celebrities: Captain America and the Wasp have been dating, Nick Fury makes further advancements in the ranks, and Tony \\"Iron Man\\" Stark and the Black Widow are engaged.  All this however comes crashing down when it is revealed to the public that Bruce Banner is the Hulk, leading to a short trial of Banner with grave consequences.  The leaking information leads to the mysterious Thor, whose origin is revealed, with more questions than answers.  By the end of Gods & Monsters, it is apparent that there is a traitor in the ranks, and by the time you reach the last page, you'll be salivating for more.  Millar's writing is top notch, pulling out surprise after surprise and plenty of shocks, while Hitch's art continues to impress.  All in all, this TPB marks a new chapter for the Ultimates, and it's clear tbat this is one that won't end well for anyone.	2005-09-09
US	45838740	R1Q54S4C56UENG	0785115439	505761973	Incredible Hulk: Tempest Fugit	Books	3	1	3	N	N	The return of Peter David	When Peter David's unheralded run on the Incredible Hulk came to an end in 1998 due to creative differences, a variety of writers put their own spins on Marvel's jade giant.  Paul Jenkins and more recently Bruce Jones weaved some great Hulk stories, but now Peter David, arguably the best Hulk writer ever, is back, for better or worse.  As Tempest Fugit begins, Bruce Banner and his raging alter-ego find themselves washed ashore on a mysterious island full of monsters and even stranger people.  In between the unfolding events, we are given glimpses into Bruce's past, and one of the first manifestations of his Hulk \\"personality\\".  Sadly, David's storytelling just seems like a re-hash of past ideas, and it's nothing special in the least.  Familiar faces are abound, from General Ross, to Doc Samson, and even to Fin Fang Foom, with little results.  The art by Lee Weeks and Tom Palmer is solid enough, giving the green goliath his classic look with some grit thrown in for good measure.  The last issue collected here is worth noting however; \\"Dear Tricia\\", featuring art by Hulk/Thing: Hard Knocks, Inhumans, Fantastic Four 1234, and Sentry artist Jae Lee, is surprisingly touching, and far better than the Tempest Fugit arc.  All in all, Tempest Fugit is fun for the most part, but hopefully David has more tricks up his sleave.	2005-09-08
US	45838740	R20W68DH73ACS1	1401207200	763753402	Vertigo First Taste TP (DC Comics Vertigo)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An excellent start off point for new Vertigo readers	In an attempt to lure in new readers, DC Comics' mature readers imprint Vertigo assembled this TPB featuring six first issues of six of their best series'.  There's no Hellblazer, Sandman, or Preacher featured here (although they are all amazing series that are more than worth checking out for new readers), but what you do get are the first issues of Neil Gaiman's Death: The High Cost of Living mini-series, Brian K. Vaughan's modern day classic Y: The Last Man, Warren Ellis' classic Transmetropolitan, Brian Azzarello's crime opus 100 Bullets, and the recently launched Books of Magick: Life During Wartime by Si Spencer.  Also here is comic god Alan Moore's legendary first issue of Swamp Thing, which began one of the greatest and most epic sagas in the history of the medium.  All in all, Vertigo: First Taste is a great starting point for new readers and those interested in the imprint, and at the cheap price this TPB is hard not to pass up.	2005-09-03
US	45838740	RR3KOWG4RDY1E	140120435X	234174066	Nightwing: Year One (Batman)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Beatty and Dixon strike gold again	The writing team of Scott Beatty and Chuck Dixon manage to strike the same kind of gold with Nightwing: Year One as they did with Batgirl: Year One and Robin: Year One before it.  Showcasing the transition of Robin the Boy Wonder to the brooding Nightwing, Beatty and Dixon weave a tale that is surprisingly compelling and full of character development.  Not to mention that there is plenty of action throughout this TPB as well, including a team up with the original Batgirl, and a confrontation with the Joker.  The pencils by Scott McDaniel and inks by Joss Whedon's Fray inker Andy Owens are superb for the most part, even though they can look a bit cartoony from time to time.  Virtually flawless and one of (if not the) best Nightwing stories ever, Nightwing: Year One is a welcome reminder of what a super hero comic should be.  All in all, if you're a Bat-fan who enjoyed the previous Year One's, you'd do well to check this out.	2005-09-02
US	45838740	R2Q4GTDHSBHFCN	1401207154	347505010	Superman: For Tomorrow VOL 02 (Superman Limited Gns (DC Comics R))	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Awesome art, so-so story	Collecting the second half of 100 Bullets writer Brian Azzarello and artist extraordinaire Jim Lee's run on Superman, For Tomorrow Vol. 2 continues as the Man of Steel finds out what caused the Vanishing: a phenomenon which caused millions of people across the globe to disappear, even Supes' beloved wife Lois Lane.  When he discovers that he himself is indirectly responsible for it, Superman goes toe to toe with Wonder Woman to set things right, culminating in a reunion with Lois, and the discovery of the surprise villain pulling the strings.  Just as in the issues contained in the first volume, Azzarello's storytelling isn't what you would expect from the gifted writer, and the pencils of Jim Lee with inks by his longtime partner Scott Williams are what make For Tomorrow worth a look, which is the sole reason that these issues were top sellers when this arc originally ran.  Lee's mouth watering rendering of Lois Lane is by far the sexiest the character has ever looked, solidifying that Lee hasn't lost a step.  All in all, fans of Lee's art will want to give this a look, but if you missed out on the single issues, you're better off waiting until a cheaper priced paper back edition of the For Tomorrow volumes is released than laying down cash for both overly expensive hardcovers.	2005-09-02
US	45838740	R9O5UZSFBV6YX	1401207235	366606845	The Flash Vol. 6: The Secret of Barry Allen	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Mildly disappointing	Tying into DC's Identity Crisis mega event, Flash: The Secret of Barry Allen finds current Flash Wally West uncovering secrets behind long time Flash rogue the Top.  As Wally learns just what his late uncle tried to help do to the murderous villain, it becomes apparent that this isn't one of Geoff Johns' better ideas.  Other sub-plots taking place in this trade, including the gathering of other Flash rogues to attend the funeral of Captain Boomerang, are actually more interesting than this \\"deep, dark\\" secret of Barry Allen, as Captain Cold is shown as a force to reckoned with, and a new Captain Boomerang is born.  Howard Porter's pencils are solid for the most part, although they seem more cartoony than anything during fight scenes.  On it's own, this TPB is worth a read, but don't expect anything special from it.	2005-08-24
US	45838740	R33PTCM9EB5QKD	1401204473	263564434	Superman/Batman VOL 03: Absolute Power	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Supes and Bats go evil	Absolute Power, the third storyarc from Jeph Loeb's run on Superman/Batman, finds the DC icons in a different light.  Through a time traveling sabotage, Clark Kent and Bruce Wayne still grow up to become their respective alter-egos, but they take a far less heroic route, and become rulers of the world.  It's interesting, seeing how things could have been different if Johnathan and Martha Kent didn't raise young Kal-El to believe in truth, justice, and the American way, and if someone would have been there to tell young Bruce Wayne that his parents' death wasn't his fault.  In this alternate world, we see other DC icons, including Wonder Woman, Green Arrow, and even Uncle Sam, face off against Superman and Batman, and the surprisingly grisly deaths that Loeb and artist Carlos Pacheco orchestrate are reason enough to check Public Enemies out.  There's even cameos from Jonah Hex and a final battle with Ra's Al Ghul, and luckily this arc ends before it's premise wears even thinner.  All in all, if you enjoyed Loeb's two previous volumes, this is worth checking out as well.	2005-08-05
US	45838740	R1DRK1HFQBJOOV	0785116516	496485290	Captain America Vol. 1: Winter Soldier, Book One	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Enjoyable until it reaches it's twist	After Brian Michael Bendis' Avengers: Disassembled storyline rocked comicdom, Marvel decided to relaunch Captain America, yet again.  This time Sleeper and Catwoman scribe Ed Brubaker gets the task, and as Out of Time unfolds, it appears that Brubaker is molding the Marvel icon for a new generation, beginning with the apparent death of his life long nemesis the Red Skull who has been assassinated by an unknown assailant refered to the Winter Soldier.  Brubaker spans through the Cap mythos, flashing back to his past in World War II and giving us glimpses of his team-ups with Bucky, Namor, and the original Human Torch, and even orchestrates the demise of Cap's former partner Nomad.  A mysterious general is pulling all the strings for control of the Cosmic Cube, and the ensuing revelations about the identity of the Winter Soldier essentially betray all the promise that Brubaker sets up.  In a nutshell, Out of Time starts out well, but it's big twist nearly kills it, and longtime Cap readers will no doubt be screaming for Brubaker's head.  Other than that, it's still a great read, and for the most part it's one of the better Cap stories in the last few years, with solid pencils provided by Steve Epting.  For old Cap fans, if you were shaking your head at Bendis' New Avengers, and you haven't heard about this ill-conceived shocker, prepare to shake it some more, but other than that, Out of Time is still a great action/espionage Cap tale.	2005-08-04
US	45838740	RBOXKCQG2AWCB	1401204651	772128202	Green Lantern: Rebirth	Books	5	16	21	N	N	The return of Hal Jordan	A few years back, when DC was busy killing off many of their icons (which as of now, they're having a blast doing it again), Ron Marz and the then editors at DC had the \\"brilliant\\" idea of killing off the Silver Age Green Lantern Hal Jordan.  As that story unfolded, Hal went crazy, killed countless other Lanterns, got himself a new costume, and called himself Paralax.  Eventually, Hal sacrificed himself in a final heroic act, and later became the vengeance seeking Spectre in an effort to redeem himself.  Kyle Rayner, who became the new GL after Hal went nuts, was never embraced by comic readers, but the character comes into his own here in Green Lantern: Rebirth, a six issue mini-series written by Flash and JSA scribe Geoff Johns.  Beginning with Kyle crash landing to earth with the body of Hal Jordan, he warns that Paralax is coming.  Something strange is also happening to JLA Green Lantern John Stewart and former GL Guy Gardner, as Hal's spirit struggles with the Spectre, and the return of Paralax.  It sounds convoluted, but Johns somehow manages to make the past Paralax story make sense, as Hal Jordan makes his triumphant return as Green Lantern, and the re-establishment of the Green Lantern Corps.  Guest stars, including classic GL villain Sinestro, alien GL Kilowog, the JLA, the JSA, and the Teen Titans, are all here; culminating in a just plain awesome battle between the new GL Corps and a posessive evil.  Ethan Van Sciver's art gives Hal a return to his classic look, while Kyle looks more intimidating than one would ever think before.  Some won't like it, but Rebirth is just that: a rebirth not only for Hal, but for the entire Green Lantern mythos, and it's done masterfully.	2005-08-04
US	45838740	R24DI2MPMERI9Q	1401204856	158215532	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Red Sepulchre	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hellblazer's return to form	100 Bullets writer Brian Azzarello's run on Hellblazer had it's share of up's and down's, so when Lucifer scribe Mike Carey took over the writing duties, many hailed this first storyarc as a triumphant return to form for the comic.  Collecting the first six issues of Carey's current run on the title, Red Sepulchre finds black magic mage John Constantine returning to his native England and looking to pick up the pieces of the life he left behind.  Soon enough though, John ends up smack in the middle of someone's super natural power trip, narrowingly escaping in the process.  The second story is the focuspoint of this graphic novel, as John's niece Gemma Masters has disappeared.  She herself has become tangled in a plot to find the Red Sepulchre, and John plays his most dangerous game in order to save his beloved niece as well as his own skin.  From the first story on, Carey has returned Hellblazer to the gothic and cerebral horror story that Jamie Delano and Garth Ennis before him had made it, taking the series back to it's roots rather than taking a departure the way Azzarello did before him.  Preacher artist Steve Dillon provides the pencils of the first story, while series stalwart Marcelo Frusin provides the art of the second story, which for the most part is solid.  All in all, Red Sepulchre marks a fine return to form for Hellblazer, and this collection is definitely one of the best graphic novel collections of the entire series.	2005-07-16
US	45838740	R1JFPPPPDT61IC	078511369X	134052973	Supreme Power, Vol. 1	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Brilliant	Babylon 5 creator and Rising Stars scribe and current Amazing Spider-Man scribe J. Michael Stracyznski's re-imagining of Marvel's Squadren Supreme characters is an absolute sight to behold for comic fans, and this handsome hardcover collects the first 12 issues of Marvel's MAX title Supreme Power.  Beginning with the mysterious arrival of a child not of this world, which thanks to the brainwashing of the US government is raised to become Hyperion: a being who looks human but has incredible super powers.  Raised to believe in truth, justice, and most of all, the American way, Hyperion, AKA Mark Milton, finds himself at a cross roads, which leads to an inevitable confrontation between him and government superiors.  But there are others like him as well, including a young man who can run at incredible speed, a soldier who has bonded with a crystal that arrived with Hyperion's ship which has made him into a living weapon, the racially motivated grim millionaire vigilante Nighthawk, a female humanoid that lives in the ocean, and a mysterious woman calling herself Zarda who has incredible power similar to Hyperion, and shares something else with him as well, and may possibly hold the key to his destiny.  Strikingly mature in it's tone (not just because it's bloody and has it's share of cursing and nudity), J. Michael Stracyznski has really crafted something special here, and the art of penciler Gary Frank gives Supreme Power a unique and realistic look.  By the time you reach the last page, it appears that a squadren is forming, and a super powered serial killer is on the loose, and by the time you've reached said page, you'll be salivating for more.	2005-07-09
US	45838740	R17BPO21RVQ2PE	1932382801	997020865	Lurkers	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not the ghoulish fun one would hope for	It seems that since Steve Niles' 30 Days of Night became such a smash hit, his name can be seen on almost any horror comic under the sun.  The Lurkers, from IDW and Niles' own Meeednight Pulp line, focuses around Detective Jack Dietz who stumbles upon what seems to be a bizarre grave robbery.  Turns out that this is no ordinary grave robbery, and after a young child is murdered and apparently feasted upon, Dietz realizes that he is dealing with an otherworldly force, and that his own family might be in danger as well.  The storyline and dialogue aren't bad one bit, but the teaming up of Dietz and a pack of ghouls/zombies against one renegade flesh eater comes out of nowhere and comes off as cheap.  Not to mention that this TPB (collecting the four issue mini-series) is quite short (and this TPB is a bit overpriced as well, but IDW is famous for that), with no development involving Dietz or anyone he associates with.  Hector Cassanova's art however is the Lurkers' saving grace, providing solid paints and plenty of blood and gore to add to the atmosphere.  It could have been a lot worse, but for what it is, the Lurkers is a solid horror yarn as long as you don't expect much from it.	2005-07-05
US	45838740	R3CV4J16O0LE9U	1569716056	33832674	Tales of the Slayers (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A must have for Buffy fanatics	This original graphic novel from Dark Horse is an absolute must have for Buffy the Vampire Slayer fanatics, collecting eight short comic stories involving slayers of the past and future.  Series creator Joss Whedon contributes three tales here, beginning with the opening Prologue which shows the reader the first Slayer with art by Leinil Francis Yu.  He also contributes the standout rhyming Righteous with art by the great Tim Sale, giving us the glimpse of a Slayer that meets an untimely demise despite her good intentions.  Whedon also contributes the closing Tales featuring Fray, the Slayer of the future, which sadly leaves the reader hanging and even more longfully wanting his long awaited sequel to his smash Fray mini-series.  Amber Benson, better known as Tara on the TV series, contributes the surprising the Innocent, while series writers Jane Espenson and David Fury contribute the satisfying Presumption (with art by the great P. Craig Russell) and the Glittering World respectively.  Rebecca Rand Kirshner and artist Mira Friedman weave Sonnenblume; a tale which features a German born Slayer in Nazi Germany, and her discovery of what evil really is, while series writer Doug Petrie teams up with legendary Tomb of Dracula artist Gene Colan for Nikki Goes Down! which seems to be about Principal Wood's (from the final season of Buffy) Slayer mother, and her encounter with a rather large bat-monster.  While all of the stories themselves are great, as a whole, Tales of the Slayers is way too short for it's list price.  Despite that, this is an absolute must own for Buffy fans, and is entirely enjoyable.	2005-07-04
US	45838740	R3QER32XMOXPBZ	1401200761	151032721	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 2: Cycles	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Continuing the saga of the last man on Earth	Cycles, the second volume of Brian K. Vaughan and Pia Guerra's Y: The Last Man, continues the adventures of young escape artist Yorick Brown and his pet helper monkey Ampersand.  Both are the only male mammals left on Earth after a mysterious plauge wiped out every living organism with a Y-chromosome, and along with Dr. Mann and the mysterious Agent 355, are beginning a cross country trek to find out what happened.  After being literally kicked off a train, Yorick finds himself under the care of a pretty young woman in the mysterious town of Marrisville, and soon after Yorick and co. find themselves caught between the residents of the town (who all share dark pasts) and the gang of Amazon women who want Yorick dead of which Yorick's sister Hero is a member of.  Despite the fantastical backdrop of the series, Cycles is shockingly realistic and almost surreal, and thanks to Vaughan's writing, it comes off as something really special.  The art of Pia Guerra and Jose Marzan, Jr. is just as great as it was with the previous volume Unmanned, and the few action scenes are nicely orchestrated and drawn.  Those new to the series will be salivating by the time they reach the last page of this collection, and the following volume, fittingly titled One Small Step, solidifies Y: The Last Man as another compulsively addictive Vertigo classic.  All in all, if you've never read Y: The Last Man, now has never been a better time to meet up with the last man on Earth.	2005-06-27
US	45838740	R1GPCRMZHORJQ2	0930289226	50556715	Swamp Thing Vol. 1: Saga of the Swamp Thing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The comic and writer that revolutionized the industry	Before Alan Moore crafted the genre-bending Watchmen, he was given complete free-reign to do as he wished with Swamp Thing.  This first arc of Moore's legendary and revolutionary run on Swamp Thing showcases not only the writer re-defining horror comics, but comics in general.  His re-invention of the character was like nothing ever seen before in the medium, and Saga of the Swamp Thing is absolutely essential.  The first part of the TPB, entitled the Anatomy Lesson, reveals that the title character is in fact not Alec Holland, but a life form thinking that it is.  As the story unfolds, Swampy returns to his home, and his run in's with the Floronic Man and a horrifying encounter with comic icon Jack Kirby's Demon, and there's even a cameo from the JLA.  The art by Steve Bissette and John Tottleben gives this classic collection a look of it's own, and what follows finds Moore achieving the supreme brilliance that he is revered for in the comic world.  The beginning of one of the most engrossing and horrifying sagas in comic history, this belongs in every comic fan's library.	2005-06-27
US	45838740	R1VFIYGVLR5DD2	0785115935	608530037	What If...?: Why Not Vol. 1 (Marvel Heroes)	Books	2	13	15	N	N	Disappointing collection of new age What If one shots	Collecting the various new age one shots of Marvel's classic What If series, this TPB contains some sadly disappointing and floundering work.  Featuring alternate reality stories by Brian Michael Bendis, Ed Brubaker, Peter David, Chris Claremont, and Karl Kesel, the stories contain solid art throughout, but for the theme being \\"what if?\\" scenarios in the Marvel universe, it's pretty amazing just how predictable some of these stories turn out to be.  Bendis contributes two stories, which are the best to be featured here, including \\"What if Karen Page Had Lived?\\", in which Daredevil's longtime love Karen Page survives her assault by Bullseye, and the course of action DD takes to wreak revenge: and the consequences that follow.  Bendis' other story, entitled \\"What if Jessica Jones Joined the Avengers\\", finds his former Alias character joining the Avengers, and preventing the current \\"Disassembled\\" storyline.  Ed Brubaker's Spider-Man story finds Aunt May dying instead of Uncle Ben, but the results build up speed and end up going nowhere.  Peter David scripts a Hulk story in which General Ross becomes the Hulk instead of Bruce Banner, which ends up being surprisingly good.  Legendary X-Men scribe Chris Claremont's \\"What if Professor X and Magneto Formed the X-Men Together\\" is loaded with plot holes and is so confusing that longtime X-fans will be scratching their heads, while Karl Kesel's Fantastic Four story finds Doctor Doom becoming the Thing, and ends with Ben Grimm becoming the Hulk: all of which becomes mindnumbing rather quickly thanks to some atrocious dialogue.  When these on shots were scheduled to be released, a comedic issue entitled \\"Wha..Huh?\\" was in the works, and was quickly shelved for undisclosed reasons.  It was said to have included work by Bendis, Mark Waid, Bruce Jones, and Garth Ennis, but never saw the light of day.  If that were to be here, this TPB may be worth a purchase for die hard What If fans, but for the rest of us, save some cash and hunt down Bendis' two single issues.t down Bendis' two single issues.	2005-06-11
US	45838740	R3TDAH4YV6NVZB	0785116761	671066412	Marvel Knights Spider-Man Vol. 3: The Last Stand	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mark Millar's stunning conclusion	Mark Millar's year long arc on Marvel Knights Spider-Man comes to a stunner of a conclusion as he ties up all the loose ends he's set up the past year while revealing who kidnapped Peter Parker's beloved Aunt May and just who was behind it.  Who did it and why isn't really much of a surprise here, but the culmination of which is, as Spidey faces off against the newly formed Sinister Twelve, led by the Green Goblin and the Scorpion, who has now come into posession of Eddie Brock's auctioned off Venom symbiote costume.  Everything else, such as who is controling Doctor Octopus and why is revealed, along with which side is the Black Cat really on.  Ending in a last battle with the Green Goblin with odes to the classic death of Gwen Stacy tale, Millar brings his year long run to a close in style, and once again the art of his Trouble team of Terry and Rachel Dodson is superb.  All in all, this final chapter of one of the best Spider-Man stories to be told in the last few years is completely satisfying, and the splash page featuring the Green Goblin with Mary Jane as a hostage in a very chilling and familiar looking scene is worth the price of admission alone.	2005-06-10
US	45838740	R2IBA55TE2PO6Q	1563899809	209291533	Y: The Last Man, Vol. 1: Unmanned	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best current ongoing Vertigo series	Just like Preacher and Transmetropolitan before it, Y: The Last Man is compulsively addictive comic storytelling with a dark twist.  Young hopeless romantic Yorick Brown wants nothing more than to be with his girlfriend, and before he knows it, he's the last human male alive on Earth.  Along with his pet male helper monkey Ampersand, both are the last of any species on Earth with a Y-chromosome, completely unknown as to how they survived this strange plague which has devestated the world.  With the help of his congresswoman mother, and the mysterious Agent 355, Yorick and co. must travel in an emasculated world while dodging a tribe of new age Amazon women which claim the men were destined to die.  The storytelling by Brian K. Vaughan is frightening and addicting, while the art by Pia Guerra and Jose Marzan, Jr. makes this all the more frighteningly surreal.  Collecting the first storyarc of the series, this is the beginning of the best current ongoing Vertigo series, and now has never been a better time to get acquainted with the last man on earth.	2005-06-03
US	45838740	R378SBN6ZC7VYL	1563896451	61336458	100 Bullets Vol. 1: First Shot, Last Call	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Only gets better with each passing volume	Your life has been ruined.  Someone has wronged you in a way that can only be described as unimaginable, and revenge is the first thing on your mind, but there's no way you can get away with anything.  Then, along comes a mysterious, well manicured man calling himself Agent Graves.  He presents to you a briefcase containing information on the person or people who wronged you, along with a gun with one hundred rounds of ammunition that he tells you are completely untraceable and you can do whatever you desire with this info, and this weapon.  That is the basic premise of 100 Bullets: the brain child of writer Brian Azzarello (Superman: For Tomorrow, Cage) and artist Eduardo Risso, which bring this gritty, crime fantasy to life.  Beginning with a newly released female gangbanger who first receives this offer, and ending with a local bartender receiving the same offer after being unjustly framed years before, 100 Bullets is a pulpy, urban, crime fantasy made believable by Azzarello's sharp writing and Risso's unique art.  Like many of Vertigo's other titles, 100 Bullets isn't for everyone, but for those who enjoy a hard edged crime story with a twist, 100 Bullets is for you, and it only gets better with each passing volume.	2005-05-30
US	45838740	R2MZBWQIN2GUBD	0785115676	675927833	Identity Disc TPB (Marvel Heroes) (Deadpool) (Bullseye) (Sabretooth)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Contrived and rushed, stick with Identity Crisis	Identity Disc was produced by Marvel as DC was breaking out their best selling mini-series Identity Crisis.  While DC's mini proved to be a surprisingly superb read, Identity Disc comes off as what it is: a rushed and lame Identity Crisis-esque story that promises much and goes nowhere.  Robert Rodi, who recently scripted the Loki and Tomb of Dracula relaunch mini's for Marvel, starts off nice with the gathering of Sabretooth, Juggernaut, Bullseye, Deadpool, Sandman, and Vulture as they are recruited to obtain a disc supposedly containing the identities of every super hero in the Marvel universe.  The dialogue comes off as cheesy, while the big \\"twists\\" aren't really that big at all.  The art by John Higgins is solid, but it's not enough to save Identity Disc from being as contrived as it is.  All in all, fanboys may want to give this a look, but you're better off with Identity Crisis, or even Rodi's other work.	2005-05-27
US	45838740	R1NCCRS8B9NVFR	1401204295	204945401	Batman: War Games, Act One - Outbreak	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Just what we need, another cross over	This TPB collects the first Act of the War Games cross over storyarc effecting the Batman titles.  Because this first volume of the arc collects various issues by various writers, the story has a very uneven flow to it.  Starting off with the prelude called the \\"Batman 12 Cent Adventure\\", written by Devin Grayson, the reader gets a clue as to what is going to happen with the narration from the Spoiler and her relationship with Robin.  From here on out, the storytelling is scattershot, and while there is plenty of action to satisfy most Batman enthusiasts, it all feels rushed together.  Ed Brubaker (Captain America, Sleeper) is a great writer, but he alone can't make up for War Games.  Bill Willingham, mainly known for his Fables from Vertigo, is here as well scripting Robin, but he falls flat.  The whole Bat-family is here: Batman, Robin, Nightwing, Catwoman, Batgirl, Huntress, Oracle, and Spoiler, as they try to stop Gotham City from becoming a complete war zone.  The various art is above average and about what you would expect, but it's not enough to save War Games.  All in all this first (of three) act of War Games is worth a look for Bat-fans who may have missed out on the single issues, but for the rest of us this is better left on the shelf.	2005-05-23
US	45838740	RJ0H0Z5WRQIXR	0785114327	477605089	Wolverine/Punisher Volume 1 TPB (Marvel Knights)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	Lackluster team up is more of a 90's flashback	Remember the countless team up's Marvel would put together back in the 90's featuring the \\"dark\\" characters of the Marvel Universe?  They mostly consisted of teaming up Wolverine, the Punisher, Ghost Rider, Venom, etc. in relatively lame various mini-series' that were so limited on character and such and more focused on the properties of the characters involved.  This recent team up of Wolverine and the Punisher is similar to the aforementioned mini's, only this time poor Peter Milligan (X-Statix, X-Men, Human Target) gets the task of writing this TPB.  The unusually gifted writer concocts a tale here featuring Wolvie and Frank going to South America in search of a criminal.  Wolvie wants to protect him, and the Punisher wants to kill him (naturally).  This all ends in both characters engineering a daring escape, with little point to it all.  It's a shame that Milligan has to resort to work like this, even though there are a couple of good action moments, and the art throughout is solid.  Fans of either character may want to give this a look, but you're better off with any recent Wolverine work by Mark Millar, or the various TPB's of the Punisher by Garth Ennis.	2005-05-21
US	45838740	R2NBLFONRYBEHO	0785114939	484966755	Black Widow, Vol. 1: Homecoming	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Surprisingly solid Black Widow story	As a previous reviewer mentioned, the Black Widow has been one of the lesser known and mishandled characters in the Marvel Universe.  In the hands of novelist Richard K. Morgan, he has taken to the character back to the roots of her origin, focusing more on action, espionage, and story rather than exploiting a sexy drawing for adolescent boys to slobber over.  The story concerns Natasha being thrown back into the spy game (as if she ever really left) after an assassination attempt on her life.  Soon, along with her male sidekick, she's kicking butt and taking names, all the while unraveling a conspiracy which evolves into the best Black Widow story Marvel has ever published.  This TPB's only flaw is that it wears a bit thin towards the end, but the art by the great Bill Sienkiewicz is worth giving this a look at alone.  All in all, if you've been looking for a mature and action packed mainstream comic, give this a look.	2005-05-21
US	45838740	R9YBJJZ94Y8NX	0785116036	676456124	Punisher MAX Vol. 3: Mother Russia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	From Russia with blood	This third storyarc in Preacher creator Garth Ennis' relaunch of the MAX (mature audiences) themed Punisher series finds our favorite criminal killing vigilante on a suicide mission in Russia.  Taking a request from Nick Fury, Frank must infiltrate a Russian nuclear silo in an attempt to obtain a deadly virus.  Soon enough, Frank's up to his neck in Russian killers, and he finds himself playing the role of surrogate protective father to a young girl who's life hangs in the balance.  Mother Russia isn't the typical Punisher story you'd expect from Ennis as Frank is fighting with more at stake than just his personal vendettas, and by the end of it all things are far from ending happily.  Ennis' storytelling is top notch as usual, particularly his characterization of Nick Fury, which was evident on his Fury mini-series a few years back (which is more than worth your time as well), while Hulk artist Dougie Brathwaite provides solid pencil work.  All in all, Mother Russia is yet another excellent chapter in the Punisher MAX series and definitely worth picking up, but just wait until the next Punisher arc, entitled Up is Down and Black is White, which may be indeed the finest Punisher story ever written.	2005-05-19
US	45838740	R191C2JTEB2SAB	1401203442	346231600	Batman: As the Crow Flies	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Nothing really special here	Current Batman scribe Judd Winick's first storyline for the regular Batman title comes off as average at best.  Taking place after the events of the massive hit \\"Hush\\" storyline from Jeph Loeb and Jim Lee, and the disappointing \\"Broken City\\" storyline from 100 Bullets creators Brian Azzarello and Eduardo Risso, Batman finds himself haunted by the memory of the late Jason Todd-Robin.  Soon enough, he learns that various underbosses of the Penguin are being killed, and the mystery involves a partnership between the Penguin and the Scarecrow, and the emergence of a deadly new foe.  Winick tells a good story, but it's not as interesting as it thinks it is.  Dustin Nguyen's pencils are solid, giving the book a great look, which saves As the Crow Flies from being comic fodder.  All in all, As the Crow Flies is worth a look for Batman fans, but if you're looking for a truly great Batman story, look elsewhere.	2005-05-18
US	45838740	RPI6TLH8EDFQF	1401204929	381562765	Bite Club	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Blood is thicker than water, but not as thick as money	Collecting the six issue mini-series from Vertigo, Bite Club takes a decidedly different turn on vampire mythology.  Vampires exist, with a majority of which residing in Miami: home of a vampire crime cartel ran by the Del Toro family.  When the head of the family, Eduardo, is murdered, his son Leto, who has become the world's first ordained vampire catholic priest, is left in charge of his chaotic family.  However, there is more going on than what's on the surface of Bite Club, with a conspiracy including everyone involved, especially Leto's sexy sister Risa who has plans of her own.  The story by Howard Chaykin and David Tischman crackles and pops with twists and turns throughout, while the art by David Hahn is superb.  Bite Club draws the reader in much like many other great series from Vertigo; shockingly seductive and blood curdlingly violent from beginning to end, with the final twist something that you won't see coming.  Instead of going the usual regular sized graphic novel format, Bite Club has been collected in a digest-esque format (similar to that of a manga) that is affordable for all comic fans.	2005-05-16
US	45838740	R12105VV9AS3F9	0785118152	641021125	Wolverine: Enemy Of The State Volume 1 HC (Wolverine (Mass))	Books	5	13	18	N	N	The best Wolverine story in a long time	Greg Rucka's run on the relaunched solo Wolverine title had it's share of up's and down's, and upon his departure after signing an exclusive deal with DC, Marvel enlisted Ultimates scribe Mark Millar to take over the book and inject some life into it, and boy does he.  Beginning with an investigation that leads to the discovery of an alliance between Hydra, the Hand, and an organization called the Dawn of the White Light.  This alliance has a grand scheme, and Wolverine is in the center of it as he finds himself being captured and obeying the voice in his head: telling him to kill.  Soon, Nick Fury, Elektra, and the rest of S.H.I.E.L.D. are on his trail in an attempt to bring him down as a brainwashed Wolverine sets his sights on taking down the Fantastic Four, Daredevil, Elektra, and even his fellow X-Men.  The surprisingly edgy storytelling by Millar is a welcome addition to the character, while the pencils by the great John Romita, Jr. with inks by Dark Knight Returns inker Klaus Janson give Enemy of the State an awesome look.  If you missed out on the single issues and you're a Wolverine fan, definitely pick this up, and by the time you get to the last page, you'll be salivating to see what happens next.	2005-05-14
US	45838740	R2GAPV0WABZG3B	1401202403	564014498	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Rare Cuts	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	It's about time these issues were re-printed	Ignore the one star review below, and make no mistake that Rare Cuts is essential Hellblazer reading.  Mainly published to coincide with the release of the Constantine movie from Warner Bros., it has been long overdue for these issues to be re-printed in TPB form.  Consisting of stories written by Jamie Delano, Garth Ennis, and Grant Morrison, with various art from Sean Phillips, Mark Buckingham, Richard Piers Rayner, and V For Vendetta artist David Lloyd; Rare Cuts is a gem.  Delano scripts the infamous \\"Newcastle: A Taste of Things to Come\\", an important story that remains a pivotal event in the Hellblazer mythos to this day, while Morrison provides a great two part story involving John and some very blood curdling going's on's in a small town.  Ennis' story isn't up to par with his other Hellblazer material, but it's still a solid story.  The real standout here is Delano's \\"In Another Part of Hell\\" which examines the long relationship between John and his best mate Chas Chandler, and just what John did for him way back when.  All in all, Rare Cuts is a gem for Hellblazer afficiondos, although newcomers may want to check out older titles first before digging into this.	2005-05-07
US	45838740	R3M9K0NHT9ZDDR	0785113959	862842640	Daredevil Vol. 11: Golden Age	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another excellent volume in Bendis' Daredevil run	At the conclusion of the previous Daredevil volume, the Widow, there was news of the release of a man named Alexander Bont, a man who was the original Kingpin before Wilson Fisk, and a man who also has a connection to Matt Murdock.  As Golden Age opens, Matt is partially in his Daredevil costume and chained up, while being beaten by his old reformed nemesis the Gladiator and recorded by Bont himself.  As Bendis' story unfolds, he shifts the reader through time; introducing us to a young and power hungary Bont and his first encounter with Daredevil.  Now, Bont is out of jail, and looking for revenge and to regain everything he lost because of the horned vigilante, and with word out of Daredevil's identity, Bont sets his sights on Matt.  This is a classic crime noir story disguised in a Marvel comic, and if it's one thing that fans know Bendis can do, it's tell a great crime story.  Alex Maleev's art gets better and better with each passing issue, and his black and white sections of the story revealing the past between Daredevil and Bont helps make Golden Age simply awesome.  Bendis has said that with the next upcoming stories, he is taking DD in a different and more noir-ish direction, and if it's anything like Golden Age, than longtime DD readers may finally find something that rivals Frank Miller's classic Daredevil tales.	2005-05-04
US	45838740	R2J01GZ2O3L9V2	0785118144	165661052	New Avengers, Vol. 1: Breakout	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Bendis re-assembles the Avengers	To say that the new Avengers lineup raised a few eyebrows is saying it lightly.  Plenty of fanboys call New Avengers Brian Michael Bendis' attempt to JLA-ize the team with the company's most popular characters (Spider-Man, Wolverine), but a few of the other choices he's put on the team is quite intriguing.  By the end of this TPB, the New Avengers consists of returning members Captain America and Iron Man, along with Spidey, Wolverine, Spider-Woman, Luke Cage, and the Sentry; who may be the strangest choice here (you may remember the Marvel Knights mini-series a few years back starring the character by Paul Jenkins and Jae Lee) as Bendis gives the team a Marvel version of Superman.  As this TPB opens, Electro is hired by an unseen employer to break into the most powerful prison in the city.  As this happens, Matt \\"Daredevil\\" Murdock, his partner Foggy, and bodyguard Luke Cage are brought in to find out why the Sentry, the most powerful superhuman on the planet, allowed himself to be imprisoned.  Soon enough, the power goes out, and all the super criminals break free.  Spidey, Captain America, and Iron Man soon join the fight, which thanks to the awesome art of David Finch, is one of the most action packed and well orchestrated brawls in mainstream comics today.  After that, a new team is born, and a mystery begins to develop.  Bendis' storytelling is ok, while Finch's art definitely sells the book.  His action scenes are incredibly detailed, and his rendition of Spider-Woman is incredibly luscious.  The new team lineup however is what hurts the book, because we don't need Wolverine on any more teams, and having Spider-Man on the team just comes off as cheap (I'm surprised he didn't include Daredevil as well, which is probably on the way).  Despite that, this first New Avengers arc is surprisingly solid, and is definitely worth checking out.	2005-04-28
US	45838740	R26QN1Z5Y6LZ4	1401202683	486411418	Orbiter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A wonderful and powerful story from Warren Ellis	Contrary to a few reviews here, Warren Ellis' Orbiter is a wonderful and powerful story that amazingly weaves both science fact and Ellis' typical mad ideas with his love of the wonder that is outer space.  Taking place in a future that may be all too posible, the missing space shuttle Venture returns to what remains of the Kennedy Space Center after vanishing in space ten years earlier.  All of the crew is missing, except for the captain of the ship who appears to have not aged a day, while the shuttle itself is covered in some kind of organic matter resembling skin.  As the mystery of what happened to the crew and just where has the Venture been deepens, Ellis throws one idea after the other at the reader, and even though his characterizations of the characters featured in Orbiter aren't the best that the celebrated scribe has done, they are only part of his much grander scheme.  The art by Colleen Doran with assists from Dave Stewart is incredibly cinematic, and some of the best to be seen in the comic business today.  All in all, Warren Ellis' tribute to where we should be strikes pure gold, and although there will be plenty that may be disappointed with Orbiter, make no mistake that this is one of the smartest and most human tales in recent comic memory.	2005-04-24
US	45838740	R1DADG13NO96MB	0785115129	329594201	Bullseye: Greatest Hits (Daredevil)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	"Is that the best you can do?"	Collecting the five issue mini-series, Bullseye: Greatest Hits focuses around the popular Daredevil villain and attempts to reveal the assassin for hire's past.  Picking up at a secret underground facility, two special agents are sent to interrogate an imprisoned Bullseye and learn the whereabouts of nuclear weapons which he has hidden.  In the process, he reveals much of his long shrouded past, or does he?  As the issues go on, the mind games continue, and along the way we are treated to glimpses of flashbacks of his murder of Elektra, his first battle with Daredevil, and a bloody encounter with the Punisher.  Daniel Way's script provides enough suspense and intrigue, even though it starts to wear thin before picking up again in the final issue, while Preacher artist Steve Dillon provides his usual superb pencils (no one draws the Punisher better than Dillon, no one).  All in all, this TPB is worth picking up if your a fan of the villain, and it's a surprisingly solid mini-series that sadly flew under the radar.	2005-04-21
US	45838740	R34HPCYT47ZB22	1401203515	609360312	Superman: For Tomorrow VOL 01 (Superman Limited Gns (DC Comics R))	Books	3	26	29	N	N	Great art, a bit weak story	Collecting the first half of the year long run by all star artist Jim Lee and 100 Bullets writer Brian Azzarello, For Tomorrow is definitely worth checking out for Lee's art alone.  That said though, those who aren't very familiar with the previous storyline to take place on Superman before both took over will be incredibly confused by Azzarello's story.  An event called the Vanishing has taken place on Earth, causing millions of people to disappear, including Lois Lane.  Beginning with a conversation between Supes and a cancer stricken priest, the reader is introduced to various conspirators, including the mysterious Mr. Orr who may hold the key to it all.  Despite a slow moving story, Lee's art is at his awe-inspiring best.  While he offered a few glimpses of his dominating looking Superman in his acclaimed Hush run on Batman with Jeph Loeb, the look he gives him here is the best and most intimidating look the classic super hero has ever had.  Not to mention that his rendition of the JLA is simply eye popping (maybe he'll do a run on JLA with Grant Morrison next, now that would really be something), and his art alone saves For Tomorrow from being a comic bottom feeder.  All in all, if you've missed the single issues, For Tommor is worth a look for Jim Lee's art alone, but you may want to wait for the eventual softcover to come out before laying down your hard earned cash for this overly expensive hardcover.	2005-04-14
US	45838740	ROBQJRN232DJ2	1582404801	689157668	Wanted	Books	5	27	45	N	Y	Just plain awesome	From the twisted mind of Mark Millar (The Ultimates, Chosen, The Authority) comes Wanted: a six issue mini-series from Top Cow that is everything a comic should be.  Wesley Gibson is down on his luck young man letting society run his life.  He's stuck in a dead end job, lives with his cheating girlfriend, abused by his boss, and generally walked all over.  Then one day his life changes forever.  Wesley learns that he is the son of the Killer, the greatest super villain of all time, and that his father has died and he has inherited everything.  Soon enough, Wesley is trained to be the sadistic killing machine that he was always meant to be, and no longer a slave to society.  However, Wesley soon learns that there is trouble brewing in the super villain society, and as the secret of his father's death which involves various conspirators unravels, Wesley learns that maybe the last thing he ever wanted in his life was to be wanted.  Drawing numerous comparisons to Fight Club, only more nihlistic (if such a thing is possible), Wanted manages to be one of the most insanely darkly humerous and blood curdingly violent comics since Vertigo's Preacher series, and the stunning art of J.G. Jones gives Wanted a cinematic look that is nothing short of incredible.  This handsome hardcover TPB of the mini-series is a must have for comic fans who missed out on the single issues, and even though it may be hard to swallow at times (this is definitely not for the faint of heart), this is blockbuster comic storytelling at it's best.	2005-04-09
US	45838740	R2H548UE70S343	0785114297	182458579	X-Force & Cable Volume 1: The Legend Returns TPB	Books	2	5	8	N	N	I wouldn't exactly call it a legend	In the early 90's, artist Rob Liefeld made a name for himself with smash hit runs on X-Men, New Mutants, and his biggest hit of all, X-Force.  Handling both story and art duties, Liefeld is pretty much the guy responsible for all the over muscled guy and abnormally big busted girl character models that became a mainstay in mainstream comics until about the late 90's, and there was never too much input into such things as story, character development, and dialogue.  This TPB, collecting the six issue mini-series which re-unites Liefeld and script writer Fabian Nicieza, is pretty much what you would expect from the duo if you read the X-Force comics of old.  For no real apparent reason, Cable and Domino re-unite X-Force to stop an enemy from the future, or something to that effect.  You're never really sure what is going on because the action is incredibly inane and incoherent with characters popping out of nowhere and disappearing a few panels later with no explanation, and Liefeld's art hasn't changed one bit.  Naturally, Wolverine has a guest spot, as does the Human Torch and the Thing of the Fantastic Four; all of which for no apparent reason.  This is worth a look for a 90's nostalgia trip if you were an X-Force fan way back when, but for everyone else this is better left on the shelf, and you'd do better by checking out Peter Milligan's X-Force and the later re-titled X-Statix.	2005-04-09
US	45838740	R13TQ1KOAW2YYW	0785115005	283144676	X-Factor Vol. 0: Madrox - Multiple Choice (X-Men)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Terribly underrated noir-ish comic with the Multiple Man	The great Peter David may have made a name for himself with his unheralded run on the Incredible Hulk, but his all too brief run on X-Factor showcased some of his best work.  The character he wrote the best in that series, Jamie \\"Multiple Man\\" Madrox, gets his own mini-series here, and David manages to greatly utilize all the promising aspects of the character for the most part.  Madrox is a private investigator these days, who after witnessing the death of one of his \\"dupes\\", investigates to find out just what happened and why.  What he uncovers is a little conspiracy filled with mayhem and mutants, and the noir-ish presentation will pull the reader in.  While some of it is a bit predictable, Madrox is a surprisingly great read with some witty storytelling by David, and great supporting roles from Jamie's former X-Factor teammates Strong Guy and Wolfsbane.  The moody art by Pablo Raimondi is reason enough to check this TPB out alone, and the conclusion leaves the door open for David to work some more Madrox magic.  All in all, older X-Men readers who dug the character of Madrox (and you all know who you are) would do well to give this a look.	2005-04-09
US	45838740	RZVPB26ZIV4HK	1593072937	657958712	The Hard Goodbye (Sin City)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	"She smells like angels ought to smell..."	In the first few pages of Frank Miller's first Sin City story, The Hard Goodbye, we are introduced to Marv; an ugly, brutish, and somewhat deranged individual.  He meets a girl named Goldie, and after their first, and only, night of passion, she is murdered.  Soon enough, Marv is on the run from corrupt cops out to get him, and punching and kicking his way through a plot involving a high standing political/religious figure while getting closer and closer to the killer.  As if you can't tell by now, The Hard Goodbye is not for the faint of heart, and it's definitely not for every taste.  However, this is Miller at his near best, and this is comic crime-noir at it's best, and it would only be surpassed by the later Sin City story, That Yellow Bastard.  Miller's black and white art is pitch perfect giving it the noir look that Sin City has been reknowned for for years.  Who knows what makes Frank Miller tick that makes him write stories like this, but whatever it is, let's hope it keeps ticking.	2005-04-02
US	45838740	R3JW3XP4GLM4KK	0785113495	374919342	Wolverine: The End	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Not quite "The End" at all	Paul Jenkins, who scripted Marvel's hit Origin, provides a fascinating follow up with Wolverine: The End.  This time under the banner of Marvel's popular \\"The End\\" series, this 6 issue TPB begins with a much older Wolverine receiving word of the death of his life long arch nemesis Sabretooth.  Soon enough, Logan is face to face with his long lost brother John, resulting in a confusing and bloody battle which doesn't quite end anything at all.  Jenkins, who is one of the best writers in comics today, leaves more questions than answers, whether that was his intention or not is unknown. Wolverine: The End's main weakness however are the pencils of Claudio Castellini, which seem to break down as the story progresses.  That aside, the TPB still manages to be an average comic at best, but for those hoping for some closure, you won't find it here.	2005-03-22
US	45838740	R1RYGEX5DB5KOU	1569717494	632850111	Tales of the Vampires (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	"I have magic in my heart..."	Compiling the mini-series published by Dark Horse comics, Tales of the Vampires is a must read for Buffy and Angel fans.  Featuring stories taking place in the Buffy universe with various writers and artists, Tales of the Vampires may come off as a mixed bag at first, but there is a whole lot here to admire.  Standouts include \\"Stacy\\" written by Buffy creator Joss Whedon and penciled by Seaguy artist Cameron Stewart, and that alone is worth checking this out for, along with \\"Father\\" written by Buffy vet Jane Espenson which weaves a tale of a young man and his ageless vamp father.  Espenson also writes \\"Spot the Vampire\\" which is delightful, as well as the creepily effective \\"Dust Bowl\\".  Drew Goddard and Paul Lee contribute \\"The Problem with Vampires\\" which shows the reader a pre-Buffy Spike and Drusila, while Goddard also contributes the hilarious \\"Antique\\" which finds Buffy herself face to face with Dracula in an attempt to save a brainwashed Xander.  \\"Numb\\", scripted by Brett Matthews, is another Angel redemption yarn that's been done before and done better, and \\"Taking Care of Business\\" by Ben Edlund isn't as clever as it thinks it is.  Other than those two stories, Tales of the Vampires is a smashing read for Buffy and Angel fans, and if you liked Tales of the Slayers you'll definitely dig this.	2005-03-21
US	45838740	R2VJDQ3R48647E	1401203167	432907864	John Constantine Hellblazer: All His Engines	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Simply awesome	With all the attention focused on DC/Vertigo's Hellblazer series (mainly thanks to the Constantine movie), this original graphic novel is great for long time Hellblazer readers and new fans to the series as well.  Written by current series scribe Mike Carey and penciled by series artist Leonardo Manco, All His Engines finds John Constantine and his best mate Chas Chandler traveling from England to Los Angeles when Chas' grandaughter Tricia falls under a mysterious coma: along with children all over the planet.  In between, we are given glimpses of Constantine's past as he uses his connections and various manipulative abilities, magical and otherwise, to save Tricia.  All His Engines features the best the Hellblazer series has to offer: dark and gothic settings featuring the most interesting and enjoyable anti-hero in comics today.  This handsome hardcover graphic novel is a nice package to get your hands on, but you'll be wishing it was a bit longer.  All in all, whether your new to the world of Hellblazer or not, consider this worth picking up.	2005-03-14
US	45838740	R1OBTR7BG6VTJO	1401203477	269421374	Superman/Batman Vol. 2 - Supergirl (Superman/Batman: Supergirl)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The new girl in town	This second storyarc in Jeph Loeb's ongoing Superman/Batman run is highlighted by featuring the pencils of Michael Turner.  While he does do some mouth watering renditions of the female form, I've never admired his material as much as say, legends George Perez or Jim Lee.  That aside, Superman/Batman: Supergirl finds the Man of Steel and the Dark Knight discovering a young girl who is roaming the streets of Gotham and appears to exhibit powers similar to Superman's.  This, the official debut of Kara Zor-El in the post-Crisis DC Universe, makes this tale worth picking up for longtime DC fanboys, but Loeb's done better storytelling wise than here.  Wonder Woman intercedes as Superman is ecstatic over the discovery of another live Kryptonian, while Batman is, naturally, suspicious, while Darkseid is waiting in the wings.  All in all, Superman/Batman: Supergirl is better than the first volume, Public Enemies, but fans of Loeb will find that this is not the scribe's best work.	2005-03-08
US	45838740	R3RHN2GB8IVOV6	1401203469	528156158	JLA: The Tenth Circle	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Supremely disappointing	When I had first heard that the legendary duo that struck gold with Uncanny X-Men way back when would be doing a JLA storyarc, I wondered why DC didn't market it any further.  Well, upon reading the Tenth Circle, you'll know why.  It's not hard to believe, it's impossible to believe that Chris Claremont and John Byrne, the same team who brought us classics like the Dark Phoenix Saga and Days of Future Past, came up with this drek.  The story, what little there is of it, involves a vampire taking control of Superman and launching him against the JLA.  Now I know that dialogue has never been Claremont's strong point, but the script is so horrible that, like a previous Amazon reviewer said, it reads like this was an episode of Superfriends.  Byrne's art is solid for the most part, but uninspired.  There is no saving grace for JLA: The Tenth Circle, and despite the fact that it re-unites Claremont and Byrne, this should be left on the shelf at all costs.	2005-03-08
US	45838740	R23XXXTV5D31HM	0871358034	953004988	Ghost Rider: Resurrected TPB (Marvel Comics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Ghost Rider, 90's style	Any longtime comic fan knows that Johnny Blaze will forever be the original, and best, Ghost Rider.  In the early 90's, Marvel sought to re-work the character, with writer Howard Mackie (Spectacular Spider-Man, Blaze) at the helm as he introduces us to Danny Ketch; a young man who stumbles upon a motorcycle which helps him turn into a new Ghost Rider.  He tangles with some lower tier villains such as Deathwatch, Blackout, and the Scarecrow, with a cameo from the Kingpin, and the first (of many) team up's with the Punisher.  Sporting some just plain awesome art, a new look, and a surprising amount of violent content, this Ghost Rider re-launch was a hit for Marvel, even as it petered out and became increasingly convoluted over the next few years before it's cancellation in th mid-late 90's.  To me, Danny Ketch is the Ghost Rider I usually think of, mostly because I grew up reading these issues as they came out, not knowing anything about Johnny Blaze until later on.  Javier Saltares provides the pencils for the first six issues collected in this seven issue TPB, with then inker Mark Texeira taking over complete art duties with issue seven which would help him become a breakout star in the comic business.  The art is amazing for it's time, with Ghost Rider looking just so jaw droppingly cool, even if Mackie's script is a little cliche raddled.  All in all, if you can find this TPB, it's a deal for the price, and is worth picking up to help satisfy the Spirt of Vengeance in you.	2005-03-03
US	45838740	R1VFV2M2K7SVKT	1401204945	548524829	Seaguy (DC Comics Vertigo)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	"Da fug!"	Grant Morrison's Seaguy is one of those few comic oddities that will keep readers faith in the medium.  In a future world where super heroes are no longer needed, Seaguy and his best pal Chubby Da Choona find themselves in the middle of a real adventure when a food and drink element called Xoo takes a life of it's own.  Zany and startingly original at the same time, Seaguy represents almost everything that makes Grant Morrison a modern day visionary in the comic world.  Morrison's digs at mass consumerism and government control are more than apparent here as well, but as any reader of Morrison's various works know, this is of little surprise.  The pencils of Cameron Stewart bring this utopian world to life, and frankly, Seaguy would not work the way it does if anyone else would have been on board.  Seaguy isn't Morrison's best work, not even by a long shot (his runs on JLA and New X-Men, and not to mention Animal Man and the brilliant the Filth are literary and comic gems), but this book is a prime example of his originality and vision as a writer, and proof that there still is hope in the medium.	2005-02-24
US	45838740	R16I1D6CZZ9MSA	1401204880	720188927	Books of Magick: Life During Wartime - Book #01	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Simply awesome	Who is Timothy Hunter?  Any longtime reader of Sandman author Neil Gaiman knows the answer, but for new readers of the character, this first collection of Vertigo's new series Books of Magick: Life During Wartime, is a wonderful place to start.  Tim Hunter finds himself caught between two worlds.  In one world, he parties hard with his girlfriend Molly, his best mate Dog, and Dog's sister Cat; living life as good as he can.  In another world, there is a bloody war going on in which Tim is unknowingly in the middle of, with John Constantine and Zatanna in the middle of as well.  Both worlds collide when a mysterious figure named Brewster appears, and Tim realizes the destiny in front of him.  Written by Si Spencer with consultation by Gaiman, Life During Wartime is yet another strangely addictive and original ongoing series by DC's mature themed imprint Vertigo.  The art by Dean Ormston more than suits the book, and is something that Sandman and Books of Magic readers will be familiar and comfortable with.  All in all, this first volume of Life During Wartime shows the promise of Vertigo's latest ongoing series, and this is the time to check it out.	2005-02-24
US	45838740	RD703PR5SK74F	0785108416	917762597	X-Treme X-Men, Vol. 1: Destiny (Xtreme)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Lacking beginning to Claremont's X-Treme X-Men	This first volume of X-Treme X-Men collects the first storyarc of the then newly launched X-Men series with legendary scribe Chris Claremont at the helm.  Destiny finds a new branch of X-Men led by Storm, and featuring Rogue, Gambit, Psylocke, Thunderbird, Sage, and Bishop among others, looking for the diaries of the late mutant psychic Destiny.  However, it's painfully obvious that Claremont's writing style isn't quite ready for the new milennium.  His dialogue can be downright atrocious, and the fact that he tries to make it friendly towards new readers (by trying to include as much backstory as he can, and as X-Men fans know, that is quite a bit) leaves plenty of holes in the story.  Not to mention, that when Psylocke is killed, there is little to no emotion involved; something which is quite unexpected considering she has been a part of the X-Men for well over a decade.  Salvador Larroca's excellent and mouth watering art makes Destiny (along with most of the other X-Treme X-Men books he was on board for) worth checking out, and saves it from being a complete dud.  Thankfully, after X-Treme X-Men bit the dust, Claremont returned to Uncanny X-Men and launched a new Excalibur book, both of which are more worth your time than this.	2005-02-21
US	45838740	R1NVHW6CR19V4L	0785115048	466504711	Ultimate Elektra Volume 1: Devil's Due TPB	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Lame, I expected more from Carey	With Marvel's Ultimate Daredevil & Elektra mini-series scribe Greg Rucka signed exclusively to DC, Mike Carey (Vertigo's Hellblazer and Lucifer) was enlisted to script this mini, focusing more on Elektra this time around.  I expected Mike Carey to do this Ultimized version of DD & Elektra more justice, but like Rucka's mini, this pales in comparison to Frank Miller's classic tales.  It starts off with would be assassin and revenge driven Elektra Natchios attempting to infiltrate a criminal empire which, in turn, is operated by Wilson Fisk.  Young Matt Murdock, attempts to persuade his lost love from making one mistake too many, which culminates in an encounter with a balded man with a tattoo of a bullseye on his forehead, and who can make anything in his hands a weapon.  The story goes nowhere, and if you think this will lead up to a final confrontation between Elektra and Bullseye, you're dead wrong.  Maybe this is good or bad, who knows, but what is known, is that Carey most likely wasn't given any creative freedom to give the story some spark.  X-Men artist Salvador Larroca's (who also did the art for Ultimate Daredevil & Elektra) gorgeous pencils save Ultimate Elektra from being a complete dud however, so in the end this is worth a look.  All in all, if you didn't like Ultimate DD & Elektra, chances are you won't like this either.	2005-02-20
US	45838740	R3PUY4ZLULJ2ZC	0785116451	293159351	Uncanny X-Men - The New Age Vol. 2: The Cruelest Cut	Books	4	8	11	N	N	More good X-fun from Claremont	This second volume of legendary X-scribe Chris Claremont's return run on Uncanny X-Men finds Wolverine encountering Marvel's newest (and hottest) character in the past few years while investigating a murder: the X-23.  In the meantime, Storm, Nightcrawler, Bishop, Marvel Girl, and Wolvie are trying to track down Sage, and in the process discover a new Hellfire Club, and boy do they have an axe to grind.  If you read the previous volume, The End of History, then you'll know what to expect in Cruelest Cut.  Claremont seems to be getting more comfortable back in the house he built by not trying to impress everyone every issue.  He's having fun here writing characters he created and riding on the mythology he helped shape, which helps make this TPB a worthwhile read.  The art by Alan Davis and Andy Park is great as well, especially Davis' pencils as he once again draws a mouth watering Marvel Girl.  All in all, longtime and new readers who have either enjoyed Claremont's last volume or were there in the golden age of his Uncanny X-Men run should give this a look.	2005-02-19
US	45838740	R1U3110HRR3J31	078511405X	423114910	Ultimate X-Men Vol. 10: Cry Wolf	Books	2	10	15	N	N	Starts off promising, then goes nowhere	Of all of Marvel's Ultimate books, Ultimate X-Men has always been the one I've liked the least, even when Mark Millar debuted it.  Cry Wolf finds Wolverine, Storm, Colossus, Rogue, Iceman, Shadowcat, and Dazzler at the Coney Island fair, and the gang's fun comes to an end rather quickly when the cajun mutant for hire Gambit makes his presence felt and kidnaps Rogue.  The X-Men assemble and track them down, culminating in a predictable series of developments that ends with the team being short a member.  Considering that the Ultimate line is supposed to be new takes on classic stories, almost everything about Cry Wolf is predictable, right to it's ending.  What's even more surprising is that Brian K. Vaughn, a writer who has given us smashing comics like Y: The Last Man, Ex Machina, and Runaways, could come up with something as hokey as this, but then again, he probably didn't have much say in terms of plot development.  Not to mention that longtime fan favorite X-Man Gambit's characterization finds him reduced from an ultra cool character to a second rate player aching to have his backstory revealed.  Veteran X-Men artist Andy Kubert supplies his usual array of solid pencil work, but it's not enough to save Cry Wolf from being pretty mediocre.  All in all, Ultimate X-Men faithfuls will want to check this out, but it's nothing special in the least.	2005-02-17
US	45838740	R31RDZ2NYSC7GE	0785115412	963196525	Incredible Hulk Visionaries - Peter David, Vol. 1	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The beginning of the greatest Hulk stories ever told	Whenever a comic fan thinks of the Hulk, they think of Peter David, and the same can be said the other way around.  This TPB collects the first nine issues of David's unheralded run on the title, these issues find the green turned grey skinned and cunning goliath attempting to free itself from the mind and soul of Bruce Banner; no matter what.  Featuring a run in with the original X-Men, the Hulk's greatest foe the Leader, and with S.H.I.E.L.D. waiting in the wings, this collection is a reminder of the kind of magic that Peter David worked on his 100 plus run on the title.  Todd McFarlane gives the Hulk the most frightening and iconic look the character would have for years, but the best was yet to come from the duo on the title.  All in all, it's about time that Marvel started re-printing David's classic run on the series, and hopefully more will be on the way.	2005-02-17
US	45838740	R34O36XYOY8JAI	0785113096	698933944	Essential Human Torch Volume 1 TPB (Essentials)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not entirely essential	Collecting Strange Tales #101-134 and the Annual #2, Essential Human Torch revolves around some solo adventures of the Fantastic Four member as he goes up against an array of lower tier villains, and naturally has some team up's with Spider-Man, Iceman, and his FF colleague the Thing.  Written by Stan Lee, the stories collected here are pretty simplistic, and are a far cry from the stories Lee would weave later on that would make Marvel Comics a force to be reckoned with.  Still, with the legendary pencils Jack \\"King\\" Kirby and his longtime partner, inker Dick Ayers, you can't really go wrong with this Essential collection, even though it isn't entirely essential.	2005-02-10
US	45838740	R3CBNQYBI2X6WD	0785115382	542870071	New X-Men: Academy X, Vol. 1 - Choosing Sides	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Lame; wasted potential	Before Marvel's big X-Men: ReLoad event, which began in the wake of Grant Morrison's departure from his prolific run on New X-Men, there was a little known X-book called New Mutants.  Unlike the original New Mutants book that helped catapault Rob Liefeld to fame years ago, the modern New Mutants featured a young group of mutants training to become the next generation of X-Men.  Kind of similar to Generation X, but with more character driven stories.  With the X-Men: ReLoad event, New Mutants got canned, and replaced with New X-Men: Academy X, with writer Nunzio Defilippis and artist Christina Weir still at the helm.  However, from the opening page on, Academy X is more alike the militant mutant books of the 90's, and you can tell that Defilippis really didn't have much say over what direction the book would go in now.  It's a shame that New Mutants, just like Peter Milligan's brilliant X-Statix, both got the axe, and Marvel has replaced both with books like this and the current relaunch of X-Force with Rob Liefeld himself at the helm.  All in all, Academy X is almost exactly like the X-books from the mid to late 90's on that turned me off of Marvel, and hopefully not every X-book will follow in this direction.	2005-02-08
US	45838740	RHA5EXMJL79QC	0930289447	369085513	Batman: A Death in the Family	Books	3	16	22	N	N	Important to the Batman mythos, but that's it	Anyone who has followed the Batman comics over the years knows what kind of impact the death of the Jason Todd-era Robin had on the Batman mythos, but the outcome makes more impact than the overall story.  A Death in the Family is a solid tale of the Dark Knight seeking justice for the death of Jason at the hands of the Joker, but just about everything about this story comes off as lame.  Jim Starlin's writing is cliche, and the Joker becoming the ambassador of Iran?  Please.  Now I know this is a comic book, and I'm as much a comic geek as the next guy, but that is plain old ridiculous.  What saves A Death in the Family worthwhile (somewhat) is the emotional impact of the outcome, and the solid art by Jim Aparo is a nice touch, but if it weren't for the impact this would leave on the Batman mythos, this wouldn't be worth picking up at all.  What would have been a nice bonus though, would be if DC would include the alternate outcome of the story (fans could call in and vote whether or not Robin would live or die) which I'm sure they have laying around somewhere, which would be a nice extra to fans who remember when this storyarc hit.	2005-02-06
US	45838740	R3DCNYLN9FG8AF	1569712255	985625409	Sin City: That Yellow Bastard (Book 4)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	"I take his weapons away from him...both of them"	What makes Frank Miller tick?  What drives one of the most renowned writers in comic history to write the kind of character driven, gritty and hard edged stories he is famous for?  Who knows, but from his early work on Daredevil to his groundbreaking Dark Knight Returns story, the man has proven he is a master writer.  His Sin City stories for Dark Horse are no exception, and That Yellow Bastard is without a doubt the best Sin City yarn Miller has ever penned.  John Hartigan is an old cop on the verge of retirement, and on his last day on the job, he responds to a kidnapping call.  What results is a showdown with a deranged psychopath in order to save a young girl named Nancy, but regular Sin City readers know that in this city, things don't always work out for the best.  By the time That Yellow Bastard reaches it's climax, you'll be left in awe at one of the absolute greatest comics ever created.  Miller's art is about what you might expect: unpleasent, gritty, and well suited to the story.  Not to mention, you'll never look at the color yellow the same way again.  That Yellow Bastard is devestatingly surreal and brutal at the same time, and if you've never read any of Miller's Sin City works, now has never been a better time to dive in, and with the upcoming movie coming out, you might want to check this out first.	2005-01-30
US	45838740	RB1GRT4T3MOC5	1563891506	17173759	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Dangerous Habits	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Cheers mate	Before Garth Ennis wreaked havoc with his classic critically acclaimed Preacher series, he made a name for himself when he took over Hellblazer.  John Constantine, the hard drinking, hard smoking manipulator of magic, meets his toughest opponent yet: his mortality.  Constantine is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer, and he doesn't have long to live.  While Dangerous Habits (or most of Ennis' Hellblazer work) doesn't have the over the top vulgarity and brilliant insanity of his later work on Preacher, Ennis still weaves a powerful and surprisingly effective tale that finds Constantine at his weakest (and in following volumes we witness his deconstruction of the character) as he struggles to not only save his life, but his soul as well.  Some of the art can be an acquired taste, but it suits the book, and Dangerous Habits is the beginning of the definitive Hellblazer stories.  After reading this, you may even think about giving the smokes a break for a while, I know I am.	2005-01-25
US	45838740	RRHPT83XYJP3U	078511551X	84525952	X-Men: Dream's End	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Thanks Joss Whedon	Why am I thanking the creator of Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel and current scribe of Astonishing X-Men?  Because he helped make this ridiculous storyarc a thing of the past when he recently brought beloved X-Man Colossus back to life, that's why.  Dream's End collects various X-issues, including Uncanny X-Men #390 in which the steel skinned mutant meets his maker when he sacrifices his life to put an end to the Legacy Virus.  When this storyline appeared, I was completely turned off of Marvel and other mainstream comics, and when I heard of Scott Lobdell's \\"brilliant\\" idea, I found myself justified in my decision.  The issues collected in this TPB really were the end of an era: comic master Grant Morrison would be recruited to put his own original spin on the X-Men, and any of his collected editions, as well as Whedon's current issues of Astonishing X-Men, are much more worth your time then this TPB.  Most of the art is solid, but in the end, Dream's End is better left on the shelf.	2005-01-25
US	45838740	R1JNO6AEPPJ7MV	140120340X	953023997	Constantine: The Hellblazer Collection (John Constantine, Hellblazer)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Meet John Constantine	With the looming release of the upcoming Constantine movie with Keanu Reeves in the starring role, there has never been a better time to check out Hellblazer.  From DC Comics' mature themed line Vertigo, Hellblazer is the series that took John Constantine, a hard drinking, hard smoking, bad luck magic mage that was created by comic god Alan Moore in Swamp Thing, and put the character in the forefront.  With the comics and graphic novels receiving more attention than before with the upcoming release of the film, Vertigo has released this TPB, which collects the comic adaptation of the film, as well as three single issues written by Jamie Delano, Neil Gaiman, and Garth Ennis.  The comic adaptaion, scripted by Steven T. Seagle, has little character development and is pretty jumpy.  However, it does retain much of the atmosphere and attitude that made the Hellblazer comics so great, so who knows how the movie could turn out.  The three single issues however, are worth checking out.  The first, written by Jamie Delano and is the beginning of the Original Sins graphic novel, is the very first issue of Hellblazer.  It's a solid read in it's own right, but it's not the best to come from the title.  The second is a rare issue by Sandman creator Neil Gaiman entitled Hold Me, and is by far one of the best and most touching issues of the series ever penned.  The last part is the beginning of the Dangerous Habits story, written by Preacher creator and current Punisher scribe Garth Ennis.  It was Ennis' first American comic story, as our hero learns he has terminal lung cancer, and not long to live.  This collection will leave you begging for more, and rightfully so, as now has never been a better time to check out one of the best and most refreshing comics to be published over the past decade.	2005-01-22
US	45838740	R1DC3WTWWI03P3	140120323X	369746631	Superman/Batman Vol. 1 - Public Enemies	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Solid and fun superhero saga from Jeph Loeb	Collecting the first storyarc from DC Comics' best selling series, Public Enemies finds the Man of Steel and the Dark Knight side by side as President Lex Luthor comissions a squadren of super heroes to bring them in as a huge remnant of Supes' planet Krypton makes it's way towards Earth.  Jeph Loeb, who has crafted modern day classics with Batman: Hush and his other Batman tales with artist Tim Sale, manages to keep plot twists and solid super hero action coming, even if the plot is too elaborate for it's own good.  His thought captions are the highlight of his script, as the thoughts of both heroes are compared and contrasted throughout.  The art by Ed McGuinness has it's strengths and weaknesses.  The action scenes are fantastically illustrated and the heroes look like the iconic characters that they are, but there are spots where it looks way too cartoony.  Despite all that, Superman & Batman: Public Enemies is a solid and fun superhero yarn, and this handsome hardcover collection is worth picking up for longtime fans.	2005-01-22
US	45838740	R1AO3KZ41YM7M8	0785114572	774268037	Ultimate Fantastic Four Vol. 2: Doom	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Ultimate Doom	After Marvel Ultimate universe vets Brian Michael Bendis and Mark Millar introduced readers to the Ultimate version of Marvel's first family, both writers departed to make way for a new ongoing scribe, and that writer is none other than comic legend Warren Ellis.  Ellis, who gave comic fans classic stories with his Transmetropolitan, Orbiter, and Planetary series, writes these four young heroes as they are still learning their new found powers.  We see Reed go through trials and tribulations as he copes with becoming the reluctant leader of the group (his revealing of the Fantasticar is hilarious), and we also get to see just what happened to Victor Van Damme.  When Ellis finally reveals the Ultimate version of Doctor Doom, it will send chills down your spine.  The story is excellent, and the art by Hulk artist Stuart Immonen is great as he has much improved over his previous works.  Ellis seems to be a perfect fit in Marvel's Ultimate universe, as his current mini-series Ultimate Nightmare is amazing, and his upcoming mini Ultimate Secret looks even more promising.  All in all, it looks like Ultimate Fantastic Four is shaping up to maybe be the best the Ultimate line has to offer, and with Warren Ellis at the helm who knows what heights the title will go to.	2005-01-09
US	45838740	RL4OBERWCHHAE	0785113517	617505338	X-Treme X-Men - Volume 8: Prisoner of Fire	Books	2	9	11	N	N	See ya!	Since it's inception, X-Treme X-Men has had it's share of up's and down's.  Even though it's been scripted by legendary X-Men scribe Chris Claremont, this title really showed his flaws as a writer, and the flaws within the X-Men mythos that Claremont himself is and was responsible for to begin with.  Prisoner of Fire, the final collected arc of the series, finds Storm, Shadowcat, Gambit, Rogue, Bishop, Sage, and the rest of the crew on the trail of a genericly written villain that naturally leaves the door open for another encounter.  Igor Kordey's art looks more improved than what we have seen on his various stints on New X-Men, but it doesn't have long to impress since this TPB comes to an end rather quickly.  Since X-Treme X-Men has come to an end, Claremont has returned to writing Uncanny X-Men and is also the scribe of the newly launched Excalibur book, both of which are currently faring better than almost anything to be found in the entire X-Treme X-Men series.	2005-01-09
US	45838740	R84RKCUOR92AV	078510271X	637771090	Essential Silver Surfer Volume 1 TPB	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best Silver Surfer stories ever told	Of just about all of Marvel's Essential line, the Essential Silver Surfer is quite possibly the best.  Collecting the entire all too brief 18 issue run and Fantastic Four Annual #5; this is the best the Silver Surfer had ever been.  Stan Lee's story of the tragic skyrider of the spaceways reveals his origin in the first issue as he makes his ultimate sacrifice to save his planet from the world devourer Galactus.  From that point on, the Surfer encounters Marvel icons such as Spider-Man, Thor, and the Human Torch, while he also takes on the Inhumans, the Frankenstein monster, and his ultimate foe, Mephisto.  John Buscema's artwork is the Surfer's defining look, and he even manages to top the legendary Jack Kirby who took over the pencils in the final issue.  The black & white presentation works better in this collection than in any other Marvel Essential book, making this package all the sweeter.  Lee's story was ahead of it's time, and even though the character would be re-vitalized years down the road (and has been again recently), nothing could ever come close to matching the amazing and brilliant storytelling found in this collection.  To say that this belongs in every comic fan's library would be a no-brainer, and this is a perfect example of the kind of creativity to come out of Marvel during the silver age, and why Stan Lee is one of the medium's most reknowned icons.	2005-01-03
US	45838740	R388OPZDK015QJ	0785110704	92432267	Marvel 1602 HC (Marvel Heroes)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A masterpiece	The tale that famed Sandman creator Neil Gaiman weaves in this eight issue mini-series is something truly magical.  Instead of taking the easy way out, such as a previous reviewer stated by implanting the silver age icons in the year 1602 or doing a \\"What If...?\\" type story, Gaiman envisions a past world in which the Marvel universe is taking shape almost 400 years too early.  Queen Elizabeth's court magician Doctor Stephen Strange senses something that should not be is going on, while her top spy Sir Nicholas Fury fends off an assassination attempt by the winged warriors who are in the service of Otto Von Doom.  There are also a band of young people with mysterious and dangerous abilities and powers called \\"Witchbreed\\" and are led by the enigmatic Carlos Javier.  Just about every character from Marvel's silver age is here, including Peter Parquah who has a fondness for spiders, blind Irishman Matthew Murdoch who has daring abilities of his own, a group called the Fantastick who share strange powers and are prisoners of Doom, a mysterious red-headed widower named Natasha who has plans of her own, and an old man named Donal who carries a stick which transforms him into the Norse God of thunder and lightning.  The story comes alive like a fairy tale, and Gaiman's dynamite twist will leave you breathless.  The art by the Origin team of penciler Andy Kubert and digital painter Richard Isanove makes this period piece come alive, with amazing art throughout (even though Beast looks a little too much like Wolverine here).  Marvel 1602 is undoubtadly one of the best and most creative mini's to come out of the house of ideas in a very long time, and if you missed out on it, this handsome hardcover collection is an absolute must own in every comic fan's library.	2004-12-25
US	45838740	RMNDTL4ZP2TRT	1401202454	112745464	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Setting Sun	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Definitive Hellblazer	Collecting the last four issues of Warren Ellis' notorious and all too-short run on Hellblazer, Setting Sun isn't a continuous storyline, but a collection of short stories with a team of revolving artists.  In this collection our favorite hard drinking, hard smoking, bad luck magic mage John Constantine has run in's with depraved killers, reminisces about his love life, and in the final (and best) story, tells a journalist what \\"really\\" goes on in London.  That story alone makes this worth picking up, as well as a story (drawn by cover artist and Punisher cover artist Tim Bradstreet) involving a series of murders and a box called the Crib which contains the aborted child of Satan.  This is definitive Hellblazer, and this is definitive Ellis, and above all, this is an absolute must have for any Hellblazer who doesn't already own the single issues.  And with the upcoming Constantine movie coming up, new fans will definitely want to pick this up.	2004-12-17
US	45838740	R1LFGLGZ6OJWFJ	0785115765	21372460	Incredible Hulk & The Thing: Hard Knocks (Fantastic Four)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Is that all there is?	With longtime Hulk scribe Bruce Jones' conspiracy arc pretty much over, the title was put on hiatus for four months to make way for this four issue mini-series.  Marvel's two biggest and baddest bruisers face off for the first time in a long time in Hard Knocks, as the Hulk and the Thing of the Fantastic Four have a knock down drag out brawl in the desert.  During the fights, both recall their first meeting and the sordid history between the two.  Jones is an excellent writer who nearly took the Incredible Hulk to the Peter David-level greatness that it had lacked for years, but his story and script are average at best here.  Nothing really compelling, just two monstrous beheamoths beating the tar out of each other.  And while that's all well and good, the Jones twist that long time readers expect just never comes, and Hard Knocks ends up being pretty run of the mill.  What saves the book however is the art by Jae Lee (Inhumans, The Sentry), who gives both the Hulk and the Thing incredibly grotesque looks, yet leaves them all the more iconic.  As a bonus, a copy of Marvel's Giant-Size Superstars #1 is included as well, as new readers can see a classic showdown between the two.  All in all, fans of Jones' run on the Hulk will want to check this out, but you're better off waiting for the title to come back from hiatus.	2004-12-11
US	45838740	R2NO9ODP9PF5E4	0785114564	875583785	Supreme Power Vol. 2: Powers and Principalities	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The saga continues	Babylon 5 creator and Amazing Spider-Man scribe J. Michael Straczynski continues his brilliant and mature look at Squadren Supreme characters in this second collected edition of Supreme Power.  Government pawn super-human Mark Milton, AKA Hyperion, has learned the truth behind his origin and to say he isn't happy is saying it lightly.  After a cataclysmic battle with Joe \\"Doc Spectrum\\" Ledger, Hyperion is a man on a mission against the people who have manipulated him all his life, only the government has their own plans on how to deal with him themselves.  In the end, Hyperion's salvation lies in a powerful, beautiful, and very naked, woman named Zarda who may hold the key as to just why Hyperion is here, and what he is destined to do.  Culminating with Nighthawk and the Blur on the trail of a super powered serial killer, all the main players appear ready for the next stage as questions are answered, but even more become raised.  Straczynski's story gets better and better and more complex with each passing page, illustrated by Gary Frank's superb pencils which gives the book a definitive look.  All in all, Powers & Principalities continues one of the most impressive stories in the mainstream comic world available today.  Pick up the first volume Contact and then pick this up, it's brilliant.	2004-12-11
US	45838740	RXGT53QOXEL96	0785114971	694242876	Ultimate Galactus Vol. 1: Nightmare	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Thank you Warren Ellis	Undoubtadly one of the best and most prolific writers in comic history, Warren Ellis, who has given us the classic Transmetropolitan series, had an unheralded run on Hellblazer, and crafted classics with Planetary and his current run on Ultimate Fantastic Four, has crafted something really special with Ultimate Nightmare.  I've never been much of a fan of Marvel's Ultimate line, and besides Mark Millar's Ultimates has anything else in the Ultimate universe impressed me, but Ellis weaves a tale that begins and ends with some cataclysmic results.  It all begins when every communications device and psychic on the planet receive an image of an alien race being obliterated, and the source of the signal is traced to Tunguska, Russia.  Professor Charles Xavier sends three of his X-Men; Wolverine, Jean Grey, and Colossus to investigate, while Ultimates leader Nick Fury, along with Captain America, the Black Widow, and Sam Wilson (with Falcon wings in tow) check out the source as well.  I won't ruin the twists and surprises in store, but all I'll say is that longtime Marvel fans who may have been turned off by the Ultimate line will be in for a real treat here.  The art by Trevor Hairsine is great as well, and his rendering of the signal received all over the planet is simply chilling.  All this sets the stage for Ellis' next Ultimate mini-series, entitled Ultimate Secret which introduces Ultimate readers to another old time Marvel icon.	2004-12-11
US	45838740	R36PJM40RZRTYH	0785113940	705906918	Daredevil Vol. 10: The Widow	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Black Widow returns	While it may not strike the same chord as his previous Daredevil TPB's such as Hardcore and King of Hell's Kitchen, The Widow still finds Bendis' noir-ish take on Daredevil one of the best books to come out of Marvel.  With the aftermath of the massive gang war lingering over him, Matt Murdock finds himself in the company of his former flame Natasha, AKA the Black Widow.  It soon becomes clear that Natasha's arrival is based on some ulterior motives as they both come under fire from assassins, and Matt has a run in with disfigured Punisher villain Jigsaw.  Alex Maleev's art is still superb, and his rendering of Natasha is mouth watering.  Also collected here is the 40th Anniversary issue of DD, written by Bendis and featuring art from Maleev and guest artists Frank Quitely, David Finch, Greg Horn, Jae Lee, and P. Craig Russell among others.	2004-12-10
US	45838740	R161SZ5IGSTE7O	0785115099	512317607	Amazing Spider-Man Vol. 8: Sins Past	Books	2	27	30	N	N	C'mon Straczynski, what were you thinking?	Until the Sins Past storyline hit, Babylon 5 creator and Supreme Power scribe J. Michael Straczynski's run on Amazing Spider-Man has been nothing short of, well...amazing.  However, Sins Past finds him trying to unravel a part of the super hero's past, a very prolific and impacting part, that spells doom for the rest of the read.  One of the most powerful and heartbreaking moments in the history of Spider-Man was the tragic death of Gwen Stacy at the hands of the Green Goblin, and here Straczynski attempts to play off the classic, and never before treaded upon, storyline by placing the idea that Gwen and Norman Osborn had a secret affair in which Gwen secretly gave birth to twins.  Twins who aged at an accelerated rate.  Twins who are also trained ninjas.  Twins who are trying to kill Spidey, who they know is Peter Parker.  C'mon Straczynski, what were you thinking?  To say that this idea sounds contrived is saying it lightly.  Now don't get me wrong, up until this point Straczynski's run on AMS has been superb, and his efforts on the MAX series Supreme Power and Rising Stars are even better, but this is by far the worst and most ridiculous he has done.  On the plus side, the art by Hulk artist Mike Deodato is excellent, but it's too bad you'll be distracted by how ridiculous the story is.  Hopefully JMS will realize the error in his ways, and this storyline will be written out of the Spidey mythos in the near future.  Hopefully.	2004-12-10
US	45838740	R2YI39ARTI75WA	0785116907	477646130	X-Men: The End Book One: Dreamers And Demons	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The beginning of the end	Marvel's merry mutants are now the lastest victims of Marvel's popular \\"The End\\" series, and who better to script the final days of the X-Men than their legendary scribe Chris Claremont.  The first of three X-Men: The End mini's, Dreamers & Demons picks up a few years into the future, introducing us to the daughter of former X-Man Bishop and the Queen of the Shi'ar, Deathbird.  Scott \\"Cyclops\\" Summers and Emma Frost are now happily married with children, and run the school, while Storm is completely paralyzed with Wolverine watching over her.  And oh yeah, the Phoenix is coming back (yet again).  There's plenty of supporting X-characters and villains that we've all come to know over the years as well, all of which come into play as Mr. Sinister hatches a plot, which includes a horde of War-Skrulls, that many of the mutant heroes will not survive.  By the end of the story, most of X-Force is dead, not to mention the X-Men are decimated, all of which will leave the reader looking forward for the first issue of the next mini.  Claremont's dialogue techniques aren't anything to write home about, and his story can become quite jumbled in all the action going on, and new readers won't have a clue as to what's going on with so much going on at once.  The art by Sean Chen is great, and his renderings of Emma and Rogue are unbelieveably mouth watering.  All in all, this is the beginning of the end for the X-Men, and so far, it's a satisfying one.	2004-12-09
US	45838740	R1I3HVSROXII05	0785112243	168885406	Supreme Power Vol. 1: Contact	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Incredible	Babylon 5 creator and current Amazing Spider-Man scribe J. Michael Straczynski's reworking of the classic Squadren Supreme characters must be read to be believed.  Supreme Power, arguably one of the most intelligent monthlies to come from Marvel in recent memory, is one of those rare instances in comics where everything just clicks.  Straczynski's writing is nothing short of amazing, and Gary Frank's pencils suit it well indeed.  The story involves the mysterious arrival of a human looking baby who exhibits extraordinary powers.  Under the manipulation of the United States government, he grows up to become Mark Milton, AKA Hyperion, a being with powers so extraordinary and fantastic that he must be kept under control at any cost.  The classic Squadren Supreme stories were Marvel's versions of the classic DC Comics characters (you can pretty much guess who Hyperion is based upon) as we also meet other super humans, one able to run at super sonic speed, one who has witnessed the murder of his parents as a youth and now fights crime as a vigilante by night, one who has a mysterious and powerful crystal bonded to his hand, and even more waiting in the wings.  Supreme Power takes a mature look at what the world would be like with super humans living in it, and by the time you get to the last page of this TPB you'll be begging for the next volume, Powers & Principalities.  If you haven't read any issues of Supreme Power, I strongly recommend picking this up and giving it a try; it's the best Marvel's MAX line has to offer.	2004-12-05
US	45838740	RGVZTF4ZXP05L	078511534X	772596541	X-Men: Day of the Atom	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Goodbye Grant Morrison, hello Chuck Austen (bah)	With Grant Morrison departing New X-Men after his prolific run, much criticized Uncanny X-Men scribe Chuck Austen received the duty of writing the book (dropping New from the title), along with his art partner Salvador Larroca as part of Marvel's X-Men: ReLoad event.  Shifting the team lineup of the title a little bit, the new team of this book features Havok, Polaris, Iceman, Gambit, Rogue, Juggernaut, and of course, Wolverine.  Day of the Atom starts out with all the X-Men members gathered at the mansion (the little joke with Wolverine telling Cyclops that he appreciates the faith in him, but he can't be on all the teams, is pretty funny), but it's all downhill from there, as it is revealed that Xorn (who Morrison had written as Magneto in disguise) is alive and well, has a brother, and there is so much more that readers will be stabbing themselves in the brain to sort it all out.  Austen's writing is the typical mellow dramatic flare that drove Uncanny X-Men readers up a wall, while Larroca's art is still mouth watering.  Austen's characterizations of Havok make him look like a wimp, while his take on Iceman make him come off like a whiny, cry baby.  Not only that, but his Gambit story is pretty lame.  Thankfully for X-Men readers, Austen has announced that he is leaving the book, and X-Statix and Human Target writer Peter Milligan is taking over pretty soon.  All in all, Day of the Atom is worth a look due to the great art, but other than that this is better off left on the shelf.	2004-11-22
US	45838740	R3DISMDODMUNM6	0785115358	293159351	Uncanny X-Men - The New Age Vol. 1: The End of History	Books	4	9	17	N	N	The return of Chris Claremont	The X-Men: ReLoad event may have been highlighted by Joss Whedon writing the new Astonishing X-Men book, but one of Marvel's biggest announcements was the return of legendary X-scribe Chris Claremont on the title that he made famous.  Collecting the first six issues of Claremont's return to Uncanny X-Men, this TPB opens with a baseball game at the school featuring every X-Man on the roster.  It's something Claremont has used plenty of times before, but this is a homecoming for the much criticized scribe of X-Treme X-Men (which has been scrapped and replaced with a new Excalibur series also written by Claremont and worth checking out as well).  Wolverine, Storm, Bishop, Sage, Nightcrawler, Marvel Girl, and Cannonball find themselves taking on an enemy called the Fury which may have killed Captain Britain in the first arc, and the second arc focuses on Murderworld.  The first arc is undoubtadly the better of the two, featuring gorgeous art by Alan Davis (his rendering of Rachel \\"Marvel Girl\\" Summers is luscious to say the least), while the second arc is average at best, but the art by Oliver Coipel is solid.  While dialogue has never been Claremont's strong point, his storytelling is still great, and it's fantastic to have him back on Uncanny X-Men.  All in all, old time X-fans who tuned out in the mid-90's and felt burned by X-Treme X-Men will want to give this a chance.	2004-11-18
US	45838740	RNBGW368FLYRN	0785115277	753768962	Excalibur Vol. 1: Forging The Sword (X-Men)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Excalibur reforged	With X-Treme X-Men ending, legendary scribe Chris Claremont returned with a new Excalibur series, focusing on Professor Xavier and his trip to the ruins of Genosha with the body of Magneto.  He encounters a small cadre of surviving mutants, and we the readers discover that Magneto is not dead (of course) and that it was an imposter masquerading as Magneto in Grant Morrison's classic Planet X book.  Those who were wowed with Morrison's turn of events may have a hard time overlooking that (you didn't really think Magneto was dead did you?), but if you can look past it, you'll find some great classic Claremont storytelling and the scenes between Xavier and Magneto are great comic moments.  The art is solid (I can't remember the guy's name, Aaron something) and worth the price of admission.  All in all, longtime X-fans will want to pick this up, and if you missed out on this give it a look.	2004-11-17
US	45838740	R3LZUJD782RERI	0785115315	393607766	Astonishing X-Men, Vol. 1: Gifted	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Calling this astonishing is an understatement	The highlight of Marvel's X-Men: Reload event is the launch of Astonishing X-Men, drawn by superstar artist John Cassaday (Planetary, Captain America) and written by famed Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel creator Joss Whedon.  This first storyarc finds Xavier School co-headmasters Scott \\"Cyclops\\" Summers and Emma Frost re-opening the school and reformating the team.  Ditching the practical black leather outfits featured in Grant Morrison's brilliant New X-Men run and replacing them with new variations of their classic costumes, the X-Men are presenting themselves once again as a super hero team, and thanks to Whedon's vast writing talent, Astonishing X-Men is truly something special.  Cyclops, Emma, Wolverine, Shadowcat, and Beast find themselves among chaos when it is announced that a cure for the mutant gene has been found.  However, it is somehow connected to a mysterious creature named Ord, who himself has plenty of secrets, including one of the biggest jaw droppers to be seen in comics in the past decade.  The return of a dead X-Men member stirred much fanfare when it was first seen in these pages (and if you don't know I'm not going to spoil it), and it is one of the absolute greatest moments in X-Men history.  Whedon's odes and nods to the classic X-Men stories he grew up with that inspired him to create Buffy are pleasent joys to behold, and Cassaday's art is just plain awe-inspiring.  All in all, please ignore John Q's review below, and if you've ever considered yourself an X-Men fan pick this up, you won't regret it.	2004-11-17
US	45838740	R1S4U32JQLDYCM	0785116486	416085149	Avengers Disassembled: Captain America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cap gets disassembled	Collecting storyarcs featured from the last run of the current volume of Captain America and from Captain America & The Falcon, Captain America Disassembled finds Cap a little more than battle worn after what's been going on with the Avengers.  Robert Kirkman (The Walking Dead) scripts the first arc, which is the main highlight here as Cap fights off against the Red Skull and the usual array of rogues.  The Captain America & Falcon story is nothing special though, even though Modok makes an appearance (and every Marvel fanboy knows he's worth a laugh or two).  The art in both collections is solid, and Kirkman's story makes this volume worth picking up for Cap fans.  Captain America is getting relaunched yet again though, under the helm of Ed Brubaker, which is also worth picking up.	2004-11-16
US	45838740	R18L5XOUWAG9R7	0785116133	304187025	Marvel Knights 2099 TPB (Marvel Heroes)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Mixed bag	Anyone remember Marvel's 2099 line back in the 90's?  It all started with legendary Hulk scribe Peter David scripting Spider-Man 2099, followed by various futuristic updates of popular Marvel characters, including X-Men, Doom, Ravage, Punisher, Ghost Rider, Hulk, Daredevil, and Fantastic Four.  Recently, in celebration of Marvel's fifth year anniversary of the launch of the Marvel Knights line, Captain America and Walking Dead scribe Robert Kirkman was enlisted to write five one-shots, based on the Marvel Knights in the 2099 era.  Because they are one-shots, they do feel a bit rushed and there isn't much room for character development, leaving Marvel Knights 2099 a mixed bag.  The best story is the new take on Daredevil 2099 in which a descendant of the Kingpin dons a technologicaly advanced Daredevil costume to fight crime, a tale that ends with a delicious twist.  The same goes for Black Panther 2099 which finds a new warrior donning the Black Panther costume to oppose Doom and the forces of Latveria.  The new take on Punisher 2099 (a daughter of Frank Castle and Elektra, yes you read that right) is so-so, while Inhumans 2099 manages to pack a punch.  Mutant 2099 is by far the weakest, featuring a young mutant taking on a hero role under the tutelage of the brain of Reed Richards who is trapped in a robotic construct of the Thing.  The art varies by each book, the best being done by Fray artist Karl Moline (on Daredevil) and Man-Thing and Hood artist Kyle Hotz (Black Panther).  All in all, this is worth a look for Marvel afficiondos and old time fans of the 2099 line, but it's nothing too special.	2004-11-16
US	45838740	R3LR3EHQA44S9W	0785116532	673717499	Avengers Disassembled: Iron Man	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Shellhead gets Disassembled	With Brian Michael Bendis disassembling the Avengers, Mike Oeming killing Thor, and Robert Kirkman wreaking havoc on Captain America, Mark Ricketts got the assignment to disassemble Iron Man.  Taking place after Tony Stark's tirade at the United Nations, Tony finds himself accused of murder after someone wearing Iron Man armor murders his board of directors.  Eventually, it becomes clear that someone has got their hands on Tony's technology, culminating in a showdown between Iron Man and the murderer.  Out of all the Disassembled storylines, this is probably the weakest.  Ricketts' storytelling doesn't go anywhere, and the art by Scott Kolins is really nothing to write home about.  The epilogue sets the stage for the Iron Man relaunch (yes, he's getting relaunched yet again) under the helm of Transmetropolitan and Hellblazer scribe Warren Ellis (and trust me, it's real, real good).  Iron Man Disassembled isn't bad though, and it is worth a look at least.	2004-11-16
US	45838740	R22A4SLHWZH2WR	0785114823	317991642	Avengers Disassembled	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Bendis kills the Avengers	Marvel's controversial shakeup of the Avengers is bound to warrant cries of blasphemy from fanboys, but thanks to writer extraordinaire Brian Michael Bendis, Avengers Disassembled turns out to be an emotional and prolific event.  Collecting the four part Chaos storyline (which includes the historic 500th issue) and the Avengers Finale, the story begins with the thought dead Jack of Hearts returning, and incinerating the Avengers mansion, killing Scott \\"Ant-Man\\" Lang in the process.  Soon after that, Tony \\"Iron Man\\" Stark appears to give a drunken, rambling banter to the United Nations, and the Kree even show up and wreak havoc.  Just who is behind all this?  It's the darkest day in Avengers history, as we see some long time and beloved members die, and witness the fall of one as well.  Bendis' Ultimate X-Men partner David Finch provides excellent art, and the finale issue contains some amazing art as well by some modern day and legendary artists (including George Perez, David Mack, Alex Maleev, Steve McNiven, and Darick Robertson among others).  The ending leaves open for Bendis' New Avengers title to begin, which features a very different Avengers roster which will no doubt receive a distinctive groan from fans.  That aside, this is a great Avengers story, and longtime readers will either be shocked or disgusted by the events.	2004-11-16
US	45838740	RVAX25GMYMN4	0785116753	713459004	Marvel Knights Spider-Man Vol. 2: Venomous	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Millar is still amazing	Collecting the four part storyarc, Venomous continues Mark Millar's run on the newly launched Marvel Knights Spider-Man, but for those looking for some sort of closure after the cliffhanger ending of the first storyarc (Down Among the Dead Men), you're going to be left hanging again.  Picking up right after the end of the first arc, Peter Parker finds that a million dollar reward has been offered by J. Jonah Jameson to anyone who reveals the identity of Spider-Man.  As if that weren't enough, Aunt May is still missing, and after paying a visit to X-Men telepath Rachel Summers, is feared dead.  But, there is something else going on as well.  What are the police doing working with Doctor Octopus?  What is Norman Osborn hiding and why is he in danger?  And just who is the mysterious assaillant who knows everything there is to know about Peter?  In the thick of it all, Eddie \\"Venom\\" Brock has auctioned off his alien symbiote, and now there is a new, sadistic individual wearing the costume and pushing Spidey past his limits.  Millar's writing is just plain awesome (is it me or is he having Spidey say \\"What?\\" a lot?) and his characterizations of the villains and various in-jokes are refreshing to longtime web heads.  The art by Frank Cho (in issues 5 and 8) is superb, while the art by Terry and Rachel Dodson (issues 6 and 7) is as great as it was on the first arc.  All in all, this is definitely worth picking up for longtime Spidey fans, and it will leave you salivating for the next chapter.	2004-11-16
US	45838740	R125NQI20NBYTP	0785115994	530238953	Avengers Disassembled: Thor	Books	5	23	26	N	N	The best Thor story in years	With Brian Michael Bendis disassembling the Avengers, his Powers partner, artist Michael Avon Oeming, was given the duty of writing the final (for now anyway) storyarc for the Mighty Thor.  Collecting the Ragnarok storyarc, this TPB finds Thor's home of Asgard in ruins, his sibling Gods dead and dying, and even his hammer Mjolnir has been shattered.  The thunder god is pushed to his limits to save his world, even if that means he must be the architect of it's destruction to do so.  Thor hasn't been this good a read in years, no lie.  Not since Walter Simonsin's legendary run have I felt so compelled reading a Thor book, if (when) the book gets relaunched, I pray that Michael Avon Oeming is at the helm scripting it.  The art by Andrea Divito is plain old beautiful, giving Thor a \\"don't mess with me\\" look like he's never had.  It's sad, compelling, and surprisingly full of emotion.  This is the best Thor has been since Simonsin, and this is an absolute must have for any and every Thor fan.	2004-11-16
US	45838740	R1TW6062CBK7WC	0785110143	971039469	The Punisher Vol. 3: Business as Usual	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wolverine gets what he deserves	The issues collected here are much better than the ones found in the previous volume, Army of One, as we see former Preacher and Hellblazer scribe Garth Ennis get a little bit more comfortable as he throws us some of the bizarre and insanely dark humor that he is known for.  There's much to admire, from a reporter handcuffing himself to Frank to get a story, to Frank taking a trip to Ireland; but the real highlight is the two issue arc in which the overly too popular X-Men member Wolverine gets his claw popping arse handed to him.  Darick Robertson (who struck gold with Ennis on the Fury and Born mini-series) supplies the pencils on those two issues, and his art is just plain awesome.  The only problem with Business as Usual is the constraints of the PG+ rating don't allow Ennis to get into the over the top bloodbath that he writes so meticulously, but other than that, this is one of the best Marvel Knights Punisher volumes available.	2004-11-13
US	45838740	RNR7ARU3H6QLK	0785114882	217316047	1: Man-Thing: Whatever Knows Fear (Misc)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hope the movie is this good	This TPB collects the 3 issue mini-series that serves as a prequel to the upcoming and much delayed Man-Thing film, the latest Marvel comic to film adaptation.  Written by the film's screenwriter Hans Rodionoff and illustrated by Hulk and the Hood artist Kyle Hotz, Whatever Knows Fear is a more than solid horror tale, centering around an insurance claim investigator sent to a murky, swampy town to investigate the strange phenomina regarding a less than reputable corporation, and just what happened to a missing security guard and why is the other rambling about swamp monsters.  This TPB is surprisingly suspenseful, and Hotz' art shines through, and the ending does actually leave you anticipating to see what happens next in the film.  That is, if the Man-Thing movie ever comes out.	2004-11-11
US	45838740	R2WER9NE4IWDFX	0785108394	882583669	The Punisher Vol. 2: Army of One	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Slow, but solid beginning of the Ennis monthly Punisher	After the success of the excellent Garth Ennis/Steve Dillon Punisher maxi-series that re-defined the character, Marvel released yet another monthly volume of the criminal killing vigilante, with the Preacher creative team at the helm.  While Army of One is solid blood and bullets entertainment, the restrictions of the PG+ rating don't allow Ennis to steer into that ultra bizarre territory that made his earlier works such a smash.  Not to mention that the Russian, who was previously decapitated in the max-series, makes a return, and while that in itself is a hilarious moment, it doesn't help the book.  Besides that, Ennis' disdain for superheroes shows when Frank and Spider-Man \\"team-up\\" against the Russian (that in itself is worth the price of admission alone) and Dillon's art is excellent as always.  The next volumes of the Marvel Knights Punisher series had their ups and downs, but the current Marvel MAX Punisher series is where Ennis' talent really shines, and those issues and volumes are what to pick up.	2004-11-11
US	45838740	R3P9UROHNTU0HY	1563890526	206412904	Hellblazer: Original Sins	Books	3	15	20	N	N	Meet John Constantine	Originally a supporting character brought to life by visionary comic scribe Alan Moore in his legendary run on Swamp Thing, the hard drinking, hard smoking, bad luck magic mage named John Constantine got his own series with Hellblazer.  Collecting the first nine issues of the series written by Jamie Delano and drawn by John Ridgeway, Original Sins is really nothing special compared to the following volumes helmed by various creators.  Delano's story is sufficient enough, albeit sometimes incoherent, while Ridgeway's art is nothing more than average at best.  However, Original Sins is a nice starting point for newer Hellblazer readers (of which there possibly will be more with the upcoming release of the feature film entitled Constantine with Keanu Reeves in the starring role) and it only gets better from this point forward.  Future volumes which feature work by future Preacher creators Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon, Transmetropolitan creator Warren Ellis, 100 Bullets scribe Brian Azzarello, and current writer Mike Carey, are much better and amazing comic work, and are more than worth your time.	2004-10-30
US	45838740	R3M0PUTIHTV7LV	0785111573	5494191	Hulk/Wolverine: 6 Hours (Hulk Legends, Vol. 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid mini-series starring the old rivals	Hulk/Wolverine: Six Hours, a four issue mini-series, finds the green goliath and the 'ol Canuck-le head becoming reluctant partners as they trek through the Canadian wilderness to rescue a sick, young boy from a pair of drug dealers.  Those who expect a knock down drag out fight between the Hulk and Wolverine will be disappointed here.  Written by monthly Hulk scribe Bruce Jones, Six Hours focuses more on Bruce Banner and Logan than their counterparts.  In Jones' current run, he's made Banner the focal point instead of the Hulk, allowing a more human story to be told.  He does the same thing here, offering plenty of great interaction before the two eventually do drop the gloves and tear into each other.  The art by Scott Kilins is the book's only downside, Jones' regular Hulk partners Mike Deodato or Dougie Brathwaite would have been a much better selection.  As a bonus, this TPB also includes the classic Incredible Hulk #181 which includes the first appearance of Wolverine and the first square off between the two Marvel icons.	2004-10-25
US	45838740	R2YO0R6LZXWT4P	0785108068	399282574	Amazing Spider-Man Vol. 1: Coming Home	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The beginning of J. Michael Straczynski's awesome run	When Babylon 5 creator and Rising Stars scribe took over writing duties on Amazing Spider-Man, he did something that hadn't been done to the title for years.  He made it amazing again.  Straczynski introduces a new spin on the Spider-Man mythos in Coming Home, in the form of the mysterious Ezekiel who wreaks havoc on the web-head's life.  And, as Peter discovers, there is more to his origin than he had ever thought.  After years of some lame storylines (clone saga anyone?), Straczynski re-injected the magic and awe into the title, while at the same time putting his own spin on the classic Marvel character.  Not to mention the superb art by legendary John Romita Jr. gives the book an ultra slick yet classic look, and fans of his work over the years will surely marvel here.  All in all, while Ultimate Spider-Man may try to re-invent the web crawler mythos, it's Amazing Spider-Man that is really the defining Spidey title (Mark Millar's Marvel Knights Spider-Man title is also worth checking out), and any of Straczynski's works on the title is definitely worth your time.	2004-10-24
US	45838740	R3ID0X39R6DVUI	0785115331	54717334	Incredible Hulk, Vol. 8: Big Things	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The conspiracy comes to an end, or does it?	Bruce Jones' long running conspiracy storyline that has been fueling his Hulk run comes to a close in Big Things.  Beginning with fugitive on the run Bruce Banner having a run in with Tony \\"Iron Man\\" Stark, he learns the armored hero may have something to do with the mysterious death of one of his lady friends.  This arc isn't as great as some of Jones' other Hulk material, but it's still solid action fare as we get to see the green goliath and 'ol shell head duke it out.  The final two issues collected in Big Things begins with Bruce waking up to find the world a nuclear wasteland.  And oh yeah, the big revelation is here too.  Just who is the man behind those sneering lips?  Who is the man that has been behind the framing of Banner and the rest of the conspiracy?  It's here, and I have to admit it really wasn't much of a shocker.  Doc Samson, Betty \\"Mr. Blue\\" Ross, and Nadia Blonsky are along for the ride; with a surprisingly tragic ending in tow.  The art by various artists (Mike Deodato, Dougie Brathwaite, Darick Robertson, etc.) is all great work as well, even though at some spots it looks a bit cartoony.  Longtime readers of Jones' run may find a bit of a disappointment here at the end of the conspiracy arc, but despite that, this is still a solid piece of work.	2004-10-24
US	45838740	R203ZH8N6ZZ1LK	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Essential	We all know that Frank Miller's classic Dark Knight Returns is the definitive Batman story, but it's also known that the Killing Joke is just as essential.  Written by the masterful Alan Moore (Watchmen, V For Vendetta, From Hell, you know the rest...), we are given a re-imagination of the origin of the Joker, and we witness him pointlessly and brutally shoot Barbara Gordon, permanently crippling her.  This is followed by her father, Commissioner Gordon, being pushed to the brink of his sanity with the Dark Knight in hot pursuit.  Moore's look into the absurdity and cynicism of fate make the Joker more terrifying than he had ever been, and Brian Bolland's art became the defining look of the character.  All in all, this is a must for everyone's collection, whether you are a Bat-fan or Moore fan.	2004-10-24
US	45838740	RM958WP6UYPS2	0785113649	581597006	Essential Punisher Volume 1 TPB (Essentials)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not entirely essential	The Punisher is one of a handful of Marvel characters who has had quite a sordid history.  The 25 comics collected in this Essential collection shows that, beginning with his first appearance in Amazing Spider-Man #129 (written by Gerry Conway), and the vigilante is showed at his best in classic Frank Miller penned Daredevil issues #182-184, and the classic Grant/Zeck mini-series from the 80's.  There's also a Captain America story, as well as his first encounters with Jigsaw and Hitman.  It's a nice collection, but the only problem with the book is the same problem with all of Marvel's Essential books, and it entirely depends on the reader.  The black and white format marrs the art in a few issues, and the paper quality is easy to accidently rip.  Even though you get a lot for the price, your better off getting the collected Grant/Zeck mini-series (which catapaulted the Punisher to superstar status in the 80's) or picking up any of the recent Garth Ennis penned Punisher tales to get the most from the character.	2004-10-15
US	45838740	R3FBRO5NPQ0BY8	1563891670	800694286	Superman: Kal	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best Superman story you've never read	What if young Kal-el landed in England during the Dark Ages instead of 20th century America?  That idea is the basis of this Elseworlds one-shot, written by Watchmen artist Dave Gibbons and drawn beautifully by Jose Luis Garcia-Lopez.  The story unfolds tragically as we see young Kal grow older, discover his otherworldly abilities, fall in love with fair maiden Lady Loisse, and eventually take on Baron Luthor who wields a mysterious green glowing gem around his neck which makes Kal sick anytime he is near it.  Gibbons' storytelling is almost mythic, and by the time you get to the final page, everything comes full circle making this one of the finest Superman stories ever told, and one that you've probably never heard of let alone read.  If you can find this, pick this up, it's a masterpiece.	2004-10-10
US	45838740	R1HLX2SMBRX1EJ	0785114378	102263151	Marvel Knights Spider-Man Vol. 1: Down Among the Dead Men	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Just plain amazing (no pun intended)	With Marvel pretty much letting loose on Spider-Man mania with a host of different Spidey-titles, this newly launched title, under the Marvel Knights banner, finds the web head getting the most brutal beatdown he's had in years, courtesy of Mark Millar.   Next to J. Michael Straczynski's current unheralded reign on Amazing Spider-Man, Millar's Spidey title is one of Marvel's best top selling books.  Beginning with Peter Parker finding the grave of his beloved Uncle Ben vandalized, and following with Aunt May getting kidnapped, it's become more than clear that somebody knows Peter's secret.  Did the Green Goblin reveal to his fellow supervillains Pete's identity?  What does the Owl have to gain?  Why do Electro and Vulture have a rather large suitcase full of cash?  And just who's side is the Black Cat really on?  If there's one drawback to Down Among the Dead Men, it's that it leaves you on a heck of a cliffhanger after the wall crawler gets his keyster handed to him in a high voltage battle with Electro.  Millar has taken villains like Electro and Vulture to heights the characters haven't been to in decades; we see them go to no limits to take out Spidey, even if that means taking out an innocent or two that gets in their way.  The art by the same team Millar worked with on the Trouble mini-series (Terry and Rachel Dodson) is just gorgeous with Mary Jane looking like the knockout she's supposed to be.  The book may be too short (this collects a four part storyarc) but it's definitely worth picking up, and by the time you get to the last page you'll be salivating for more.	2004-10-03
US	45838740	R4KHP5UM0RACG	1593072139	294452355	Chosen	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Sensational	Mark Millar, mainly known for his run on Marvel's Ultimate X-Men and his excellent Ultimates, as well as his current excellent Wanted title for Top Cow, penned this three issue mini-series for Dark Horse.  When a young teen named Jodie miraculously survives getting a semi-truck dropped on his noggin, it is revealed that he is to play a pivotal role in the armageddon to come.  Soon afterward, he begins to learn he has otherworldly abilities, and much like Jesus himself, he begins performing \\"miracles\\" such as healing the sick, and even a good 'ol fashioned resurrection as well.  Millar's story is engaging to say the least, even though the chain of events that string together the story can seem to go a little too quick.  The twist ending however is worth the price of admission alone, and Peter Gross' artwork combined with the washed out colors of Jeanne McGee give Chosen a look all it's own.  All in all, fans of mad Scotsman Millar should definitely pick this up.	2004-10-03
US	45838740	R2BP8AP0HSKB3T	0785110887	726168047	X-Force Volume 2: Final Chapter TPB	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Awesome	Picking up where New Beginnings left off, X-Force: The Final Chapter collects the final issues of the Peter Milligan/Mike Allred X-Force before it would be re-launched as X-Statix (which has sadly just ended).  Continuing the idea of a commercial based mutant team brought together to pretty much make money, the group is joined by the appropriately named Dead Girl, and introduced to the Spike and Lacuna.  The book is surprisingly action packed and Milligan's storytelling is simply awesome, and his Doop story is worth the price of admission alone.  Those used to the other militaristic team X-Men books or the old X-Force books may have a hard time getting into Mike Allred's art or the sheer absurdity of the story, but it's sure worth a look, and once it would get re-launched as X-Statix would this become something really special.	2004-09-28
US	45838740	R1P025KHF2P7HK	1593070950	191038058	Hellboy, Vol. 2: Wake the Devil	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Simply awesome	This second Hellboy mini-series from Dark Horse found Hellboy creator Mike Mignola taking on sole writing duties (legendary X-Men and Fantastic Four scribe John Byrne took script writing credit for Seed of Destruction) as well as art, and he surprisingly managed to craft a slightly better book than Seed of Destruction.  The story revolves around our favorite paranormal investigator taking on vampires, while all the while Ilsa and Kroenen await the return of Rasputin and the end of the world: something which Hellboy is the key to.  Full of creepy atmosphere, stylish storytelling, gothic art, and loaded with revelations and a few surprises, Wake the Devil reminds us just why comic books are so fun to read.  If you're one of the many who saw the recent film and dug it, you should really check out every Hellboy graphic novel you can get your hands on.	2004-09-26
US	45838740	R3GMST9CFLX22M	0785112014	840532559	New X-Men Vol. 6: Planet X	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Surprises surprises	Grant Morrison's now legendary run on New X-Men offered up plenty of twists and revelations in this arc, including one of the biggest shocks of the year in comics.  Xorn, the mutant healer that for the past few years has lived among the X-Men, is really Magneto; and with all the X-Men effectively immobilized,  destroys New York City.  Morrison has made the classic X-villain more fearsome and vendictive than the character has been in years, and in Planet X everything he's written begins to come together, setting the stage for Morrison's final storyarc on New X-Men, Here Comes Tomorrow.  This is undoubtadly one of the best arcs to come out of an X-Men title since Claremont's heyday, but it's bittersweet because this signaled the end of Morrison's run.  So many X-fans who had become disenchanted with the title after almost a decade of lame storyarcs, myself included, had become drawn back into the title thanks to Morrison's visionary storytelling and masterful plotting, and this book is a prime example.  Phil Jimenez' art is just gorgeous, and it makes Planet X all the sweeter.	2004-09-25
US	45838740	R1AD9VQ6HKIUXI	0785114068	17283868	Uncanny X-Men Volume 6: Bright New Mourning TPB	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Another lacking Uncanny X-Men entry from Chuck Austen	With Grant Morrison's prolific run on New X-Men nothing more than a memory, this TPB takes place after the cataclysmic events in his Planet X and Here Comes Tomorrow arcs (both books you're better off picking up than this).  With Magneto dead (yeah right), New York City in ruins, and the mansion in shambles; the X-Men re-group to pick up the pieces.  Bright New Mourning manages to bridge the gap between the events of the aforementioned stories and Marvel's recent X-Men:ReLoad event, but the book is hurt badly by some atrocious dialogue and weak storytelling, courtesy of longtime, and long criticized, Uncanny X-Men scribe Chuck Austen.  It's only saving grace is the art of Salvador Larroca, which was also the only saving grace of the previous Uncanny X-Men arc, She Lies With Angels.  It's worth checking out if you missed these issues, but other than that this is best left on the shelf.	2004-09-21
US	45838740	R692U9WZZNRGJ	1932382321	807524210	George A. Romero's Dawn of the Dead	Books	2	18	21	N	N	Stick with the movie	A Dawn of the Dead comic book?  The idea itself has a lot going for it, considering that the film is one of the most revered and important films of all time in the horror genre, plus the book is scripted by 30 Days of Night scribe Steve Niles.  Despite all that though, this three issue collection is surprisingly lame.  Niles' script pretty much follows the story and dialogue of the film to a tee, but Chee's art is what hurts the book.  Even though the film had it's share of gut ripping gore, many scenes where the graphic violence was only implied are in their full gory glory here.  While that may be a plus for some, Chee's bloodlust isn't drawn very well, and it feels like he's letting the blood flow just for the sake of flowing.  Not to mention that George Romero's symbolic underlining theme of mass consumerism devouring society is lost in this comic adaptation, making this look like an average run of the mill zombie story, something that the original Dawn of the Dead is definitely not.  If you're a fan of the classic film, this may be worth a look if you're into comics, but all others are better left watching their DVD.	2004-09-19
US	45838740	R3R84KJT31F4IE	0785113916	957447738	Punisher MAX Vol. 1: In the Beginning	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Oh yeah baby, I've waited a long time for this	Garth Ennis' Marvel Knights Punisher run had it's share of up's and down's; mostly due to the fact that Ennis didn't have the kind of freedom he had on titles like Preacher and Hellblazer which allowed his insanely dark humor-ish yet gritty storytelling to shine, but with the newly launched Punisher title under Marvel's MAX line (meaning, for mature audiences only), this is indeed the Punisher at his best.  Beginning with a bloody flashback to the murder of Frank Castle's family and followed by an even bloodier assault on the mob, Frank finds himself hounded to become the CIA's own personal hitman, and none other than Frank's long thought dead partner Micro is here trying to convince Frank to do it.  This is Garth Ennis at his best, giving the Punisher a dark, gritty, crime story feel that more than suits the book.  The only problem with this book is the art from Lewis Larosa.  While he does a fine job drawing the brutal ensuing blood baths and gore, his character models aren't the best around.  Ennis' old Preacher partner Steve Dillon would have been an excellent choice to do the art, but as great as this is, that's only a minor withdrawal.  All in all, Punisher fans who have been waiting for an excellent gritty and adult story that takes the character back to his roots should definitely pick this up.  And if you think this is good, just wait until the next storyarc, called Kitchen Irish, comes out in TPB form, because that's even better.	2004-09-18
US	45838740	R1LFEAQ0BQ3NOG	0785114718	854274486	Marvel Knights Fantastic Four, Vol. 1: Wolf at the Door	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Marvel's first family gets knighted	Some months ago, Marvel Editor in Chief Joe Quesada made the brilliant idea of firing Fantastic Four scribe Mark Waid; a writer who has made the comic the best it has been in years.  Even though it was resolved and Waid is still on board as the writer, this storyarc was originally supposed to take shape after Waid's departure.  With Waid still on board, Marvel issued a new ongoing series with the Fantastic Four under the Marvel Knights banner.  Writer Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa's script finds the super hero family celebrating young Franklin Richards' birthday, followed by the team learning that they are ruined financially and are subsequently kicked out of the Baxter Building.  The idea is fresh, but it doesn't take off the way it should.  What makes this book worth reading however, is the art by rising superstar Steve McNiven.  He's making quite a name for himself with Marvel, and this book is proof positive he will be a force to be reckoned with.  All in all, Wolf at the Door is worth checking out for longtime FF fans looking for something different, but McNiven's art is it's selling point.	2004-09-12
US	45838740	R39EE3R3KG96QJ	0785111670	41366433	Alias Vol. 4: The Secret Origins of Jessica Jones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The end	The fourth and final storyarc of Brian Michael Bendis' brilliant Alias reveals the origin of ex-Avenger turned burned out private investigator Jessica Jones and her connection to Killgrave AKA the Purple Man.  Even though it only lasted for 28 issues, Alias was truly something special.  Bendis' look at the underbelly of the Marvel universe made for compulsive reading, and the characterization of Jessica was the flawed human that readers could actually relate to.  The relationship between Jessica and Luke Cage also gets tied up, and it sets the stage for Bendis' new series the Pulse; which has become a cult hit for Marvel.  The art by Michael Gaydos still gives the book the same grittiness it's had since it's first issue saw the light of day, and the series comes to a satisfying end thanks to Bendis' brilliant (as usual) storytelling.  His transformation of the Purple Man from third rate Marvel villain to mass murdering maniac must be seen to be believed.  All in all, it's sad that Alias is over, and if you missed out on the series than you should definitely pick up all four volumes.	2004-09-11
US	45838740	R1RG8KC66ZWV1E	0943151163	286266564	Johnny The Homicidal Maniac: Director's Cut	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hilarious	Jhonen Vasquez' Johnny the Homicidal Maniac is still one of the funniest, most depraved, and excellent comics out there today.  Revolving around the life of the deranged, homicidal Johnny (you can call him Nny) as he kills, maims, and pretty much does any kind of depraved act you can think of; in between drawing Happy Noodle Boy, going to see Kafka, and terrorizing his young neighbor Todd (Vasquez fans know him as Squee, and that book is worth owning as well).  Filled with potshots towards goths, people who hang in coffee shops late at night, and others who \\"need to have a smoke\\", Johnny the Homicidal Maniac is still as fresh and funny today as it was when it came out a few years back, and if you've never read it and are looking for something different in comics, then you owe it to yourself to pick this up.  If you dig this, pick up Squee, and check out Roman Dirge's Lenore books.	2004-09-09
US	45838740	R2LZSGORMMWLNO	0785108548	661059130	U.S. War Machine TPB	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Interesting mature look at Iron Man, but loses steam	This Marvel MAX title attempts to take a mature, more realistic look at the Iron Man mythos, and it does a solid job, but it never quite picks up the steam it seems to build.  Writer/artist Chuck Austen's script makes Tony Stark look like the alcoholic, eccentric, money hungry, ego maniac that he would be if he existed in the real world; as we see his technological breakthrough get used and abused by the highest bidder.  Austen's dialogue is average at best, and he has flashes of brilliance here and there, but for the many who love to criticize him (and there are plenty, yet this guy continues to write major titles including X-Men, Action Comics, Avengers, and JLA; go figure) will find plenty to pick apart, including his computer assisted artwork presented here in black & white.  Filled with intriguing ideas, U.S. War Machine is worth checking out for Iron Man fans, but there are better titles available in Marvel's MAX line.	2004-09-09
US	45838740	R167IKKCA7VHAM	0785110674	408003856	New X-Men Vol. 4: Riot at Xavier's	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Just awesome	Riot at Xavier's, the fourth collected volume in Grant Morrison's New X-Men run, continues the strangely gifted writer breaking the unwritten laws of the X-Men mythos.  An Omega level telepath named Quentin Quire, spurned by the death of celebrity-like mutant, begins forming a gang inside the school as their opening day to the public approaches.  Loaded with snappy dialogue, Morrison's master storytelling, and superb art by Frank Quitely (who actually managed to ALMOST do all the art for a full storyarc), this volume ends on a tragic note, along with some hard choices to make for Beak, and Jean learning of the psychic affair between Cyclops and Emma Frost.  However, this volume is only the calm before the storm, and is followed by the pivotal events in Assault on Weapon Plus, and the cataclysmic events in Planet X and Here Comes Tomorrow.	2004-09-09
US	45838740	R36Z9T6AGVF5VG	0785111476	589017129	X-Men: The Dark Phoenix Saga (Marvel Legends, Vol. 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The golden standard of X-Men stories	There really isn't much to say about the Dark Phoenix Saga that hasn't already been said.  It's a classic X-Men story that became the gold standard of X-Men stories, brought to you by the legendary duo of writer Chris Claremont and artist/co-plotter John Byrne; both of whom seemed to strike gold with just about anything they thought of.  Picking up after battling Proteus, the X-Men (Cyclops, Jean Grey, Colossus, Storm, Nightcrawler, and Wolverine) find themselves under fire from the Hellfire Club, whom has seemingly gained control over Jean.  Eventually, the power of the Phoenix becomes more powerful than ever imagined, and there are consequences aplenty.  Collecting issues 129-137 (this collection also introduces the White Queen, Dazzler, and fan favorite Kitty \\"Shadowcat\\" Pryde), this storyarc proved pivotal to the X-Men mythos, and remains one of the most well regarded and loved comic stories of all time.  If you've never read the Dark Phoenix Saga, well then, that's almost as sad as the end of this comic.	2004-08-30
US	45838740	R11YGAC9506JV7	1401200133	47450097	The Filth	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Morrison does it again	Grant Morrison's 13 issue maxi-series, the Filth, is possibly the best piece of material to ever come from the strangely gifted, critically acclaimed writer.  The story centers around Greg Feely, a man who wants to do nothing more than look at pornography and care for his ailing cat Tony.  However, Greg soon learns that he is actually Ned Slade, a special negotiator for an organization called the Hand which cleans up the unhealthy variations and messes made in the world.  Feely's search for his identity brings him across a talking communist chimpanzee named Dmitri who boasts that he killed JFK, an adult film star named Anders Klimakks whose black semen is made into a biological weapon by depraved director Tex Porneau, and brainwashed children which are nothing more than ants.  The art by Chris Weston and Gary Erksine brilliantly capture the sheer weirdness of it all; perfectly capturing Morrison's characterizations.  Beneath the intense graphic violence and sex, Morrison weaves a tale like a tree, branching out with ideas reminiscent of that of a Philip K. Dick story while challenging the confines of what is a comic book.  The Filth is brilliant, shocking, and the best thing to come from DC's Vertigo imprint since Preacher and Morrison's own Animal Man, and is much like Alan Moore's Watchmen was almost twenty years ago: sheer comic brilliance that will be cherished for years to come.	2004-08-26
US	45838740	RIS231LTEFMXD	0871356139	116329951	Wolverine: The Jungle Adventure	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wolvie in the Savage Land	This one shot features everyone's favorite X-Man taking a trip down to the Savage Land and ultimately ending up taking on Apocalypse in a knock down, drag out fight.  In the meantime, Wolvie meets an Amazonian-esque woman named Gahck and the two find they have a lot in common; resulting in a child that Logan has no idea about.  The story by legendary Thor writer Walter Simonson is engaging, while the art by future Hellboy creator Mike Mignola is the book's strong point.  It's a solid Wolverine story, even though it isn't up to par with Chris Claremont and Frank Miller's classic mini-series, but it's up to you whether or not this is worth tracking down.	2004-08-18
US	45838740	R2VMMELH50NOQP	1401201334	644904690	Batman: Broken City (Batman (DC Comics Hardcover))	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Disappointing	After Jeph Loeb and Jim Lee took Batman to new heights with their Hush storyarc, DC enlisted the 100 Bullets team of writer Brian Azzarello and artist Ed Risso to take on the Dark Knight with this six issue arc.  Both the story and art pay tribute to Frank Miller's legendary Dark Knight Returns story, but Azzarello misses the mark on Batman's characterization.  Forget the previous reviewer's remarks, I was looking forward to a grimmer and grittier Batman story courtesy of this creative team, but with a filandering story and unnecessary appearances from villains such as the Penguin and Scarface, this whole arc is disappointing.  Not to mention that aside from Azzarello's 100 Bullets work and his Startling Stories: Banner for Marvel, much of his recent outings have been lacking such as his re-imagining of Luke Cage for Marvel and his current run on Superman.  Risso's art is as excellent as ever, and about the only thing that saves the book from being in the scrap heap.  All in all, this is worth checking out if you're looking for a more noir-ish take on Bats, but all others should avoid.	2004-08-17
US	45838740	R2VKKTASRCFBHJ	0785113444	808232685	The Punisher Vol. 6: Confederacy of Dunces (Punisher)	Books	3	5	18	N	N	The last hurrah	Garth Ennis' run on the re-launched Marvel Knights Punisher has had its' up's and down's, and Confederacy of Dunces is no different.  This TPB has it's share of good and bad points, but it's a worthy sendoff of the book before it was re-laucnhed (yet again) as a Marvel Max title.  In this book, Marvel's big three characters (Daredevil, Spider-Man, and Wolverine) team up to take down the Punisher, but good 'ol Frank has a few surprises in store for them, including a special guest star who will no doubt leave the reader laughing.  Ennis' disdain for superheroes shows here as he shows the three bumbling amd fumbling through their mission.  The big downside here however, is that there are times when the book seems like it will go into that bizarre Ennis territory that he was known for in Preacher, and nothing ever comes from it.  The art by Ennis' Hitman partner John McCrea is solid, and it suits the character well, but if you want to read an excellent Punisher story, pick up any issue of the new Marvel Max series, where Garth Ennis has made the Punisher a force to be reckoned with once again.	2004-08-15
US	45838740	R9PKB0YE934JS	0785113991	364473347	Incredible Hulk Vol. 7: Dead Like Me	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bruce Jones is still incredible	After the cataclysmic events of the Split Decisions storyarc, Dead Like Me finds Bruce Banner, Nadia Blonsky, Doc Samson, and Mr. Blue, revealed to be Betty Ross, all at a cross roads.  The conspiracy is deeper than any of them imagined, and now they have a Banner clone to deal with who is more than he seems.  Even though this four part storyarc is fairly uneventful compared to other volumes in Jones' Hulk run, he still manages to keep the suspense mounting, even when he leaves more questions than answers.  Doug Braithwaite's art is rather similar to that of the fantastic Mike Deodato, but not as cinematic.  All in all, this collection continues Bruce Jones' amazing run on the Hulk, and is worth picking up for those who have enjoyed his work.	2004-08-15
US	45838740	R2UUMNDNG3JQUA	0785113932	137546173	Ultimate Fantastic Four Vol. 1: The Fantastic	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Next to the Ultimates, this is the best Ultimate title	Aside from the Ultimates, I'm not much of a fan of Marvel's Ultimate universe, but the recent, and for many eagerly awaited, Ultimate Fantastic Four greatly kicks off the Ultimate version of Marvel's first family courtesy of co-scribes and Ultimate vets Brian Michael Bendis (Ultimate Spider-Man) and Mark Millar (Ultimates) and artist Adam Kubert.  Collecting the first six issue arc called The Fantastic; young and misunderstood genius Reed Richards' discovery of another dimension leads him to the Baxter Building under the tutelage of Dr. Storm.  Later, Reed, along with his childhood friend Ben Grimm, Dr. Storm's two children Sue and Johnny, and his newfound rival Victor Van Damme (yes, Bendis changed Doom's name), are seperated during an experiment with Victor missing, and the other four with extraordinary powers.  Bendis' snappy dialogue suits the book well, and Kubert's art gives it a flashy, polished look.  While this first collection is a solid work, the second storyarc, entitled Doom, is penned by Transmetropolitan scribe Warren Ellis, and is something really special.	2004-08-14
US	45838740	R1464YX4XJH0UE	0785113371	390498477	Daredevil Vol. 9: King of Hell's Kitchen	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The return of the king	This five part storyarc marks the return of writer Brian Michael Bendis and artist Alex Maleev.  Taking place one year after the events of Hardcore, Matt Murdock/Daredevil has declared himself the new Kingpin of Hell's Kitchen, and with his identity public he doesn't even bother wearing the costume anymore.  He has since married Milla Donovan, and even his fellow super heroes (Luke Cage and Spider-Man among them) don't even understand what he is doing.  Soon though, the Japanese mob makes a hit on Matt, coming up with what is one of the hugest brawls to grace the pages of Daredevil in years.  Bendis' knack for dialogue is in full effect here, and his work on DD has always been excellent, and it continues here.  Maleev's art is excellent as well, and he truly is one of the top rising stars in comics today.  All in all, The King of Hell's Kitchen is up there with other Bendis/Maleev masterpieces like Out and Hardcore, and is definitely worth picking up.	2004-08-04
US	45838740	R1KICZWSLONYTN	0785108874	501360122	New X-Men Vol. 2: Imperial	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Continuing Morrison's amazing run	Note: this review refers to New X-Men Vol. 2: Imperial.  Grant Morrison's earth shaking run on New X-Men continues in this collected volume following the shattering events of E is for Extinction.  Professor X, whose mind and body is under the control of his evil twin sister Cassandra Nova, is attempting to manipulate the Shi'ar empire to destroy all the mutants on Earth.  Meanwhile, the X-Men are in dissary.  Beast is in a coma, while Cyclops and Emma uncover even more about the mysterious John Sublime and his U-Men.  Wolverine helps out a young girl named Angel who discovers she is a mutant, while Jean scrambles amidst the mayhem.  Morrison really weaves an awesome story, undoubtadly the best to hit the X-Men in years.  The story is loaded with twists and turns and rich in character, and he even manages to make Cyclops and Emma the most interesting characters in the book and doesn't focus primarily on Wolverine like so many X-books have in the past.  The only downside of this collection is the art.  While the art in various issues by Frank Quitely and Ethan Van Sciver is great, Igor Kordey's art is nearly atrocious.  I mean come on, I've seen this guy's art in Cable and X-Treme X-Men and it was solid, but here it looks plain old sloppy and rushed.  That aside though, this volume is worth picking up as it continues Grant Morrison's now legendary run, and it sure beats out any X-Men material to come out before it or recently since Morrison's departure.	2004-08-01
US	45838740	R29OFQMGM6FH65	1593070942	673687494	Hellboy, Vol. 1: Seed of Destruction	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Brilliance like this is rarely seen in comics	Between Marvel devoting their time to Spider-Man clones and X-Men re-hashes, and DC deciding which super hero to kill off next, I had toned out of comics for a while.  But the minute I took my first glance at Hellboy, I knew that this was something special.  Created by Mike Mignola (set designer for Francis Ford Coppola's  adaptation of Bram Stoker's Dracula), Seed of Destruction begins in Germany in 1944 where a young demon is raised from hell.  The demon, dubbed Hellboy, grows up fighting the paranormal with a small group of allies, and is a hero in every sense of the word.  The irony of Hellboy?  He's more human than just about every other character you can find in a comic book in the past ten years, and this graphic novel is pure brilliance from beginning to end.  Mignola's artwork is awesome to say the least, and his story (scripted by comic legend John Byrne) nicely begins the mythology of what would become a beloved comic.  This is a must own for any and every comic fan, and the books that followed only got better and better.	2004-07-25
US	45838740	RN1XZ9AR2BLOP	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Frightening and powerful	In the early 1980's, Alan Moore (Watchmen, League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, From Hell, chances are if you're reading this you know the list) began this chilling work.  In an alternate world, it's 1997, and America and the Soviets have nuked each other to extinction.  England is left, now under a fascist regime, and everything seems to be under control, until a mysterious terrorist, wearing a Guy Fawkes mask and calling himself V, begins picking off government officials and destroying buildings and monuments.  Moore's storytelling is nothing short of chilling; from the basic element of the loss of freedom to a totalitarian government to just who really fights for good (is it V or the government?), V For Vendetta is nearly unforgettable.  That combined with David Lloyd's ultra eerie washed out color art make this one of the most chilling works in the world of comics you'll ever likely find.  It's not as profound or as important as Moore's Watchmen or his Swamp Thing run, but this is still worth reading.	2004-07-18
US	45838740	R349R1DSVAKVYR	0785113452	189353983	New X-Men Vol. 7: Here Comes Tomorrow	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Grant Morrison's stunning swan song to the X-Men	Collecting the final four issues of Grant Morrison's already legendary run on New X-Men, Here Comes Tomorrow brings everything that Morrison has set up over the past couple years to a close.  Taking place 150 years after the events of Planet X, this storyarc finds Wolverine, E.V.A., a new Beak, Cassandra Nova, and a young human named Tom Skylark and his giant robot Sentinel named Rover battling over control of the Phoenix egg from the Beast.  Everything meticulous detail of Morrison's run comes full circle here, and Here Comes Tomorrow is made all the more special by featuring art by the legendary Marc Silvestri who made a name for himself drawing Marvel's merry mutants.  If you missed out on Morrison's run, go back to the beginning and read all seven volumes for proof alone that Grant Morrison is the best thing to happen to the X-Men since Chris Claremont.	2004-06-20
US	45838740	RS39IYP32IH3E	0785110763	659975850	Ultimate Daredevil & Elektra Volume 1 TPB	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Far from being Ultimate at all	It's no secret I'm not much of a fan of Marvel's Ultimate line (besides Mark Millar's Ultimates that is), and this collection (which collects the 4 issue mini-series of the same name) helps me prove my point.  Taking place in Marvel's Ultimate universe before Matt Murdock became the horned vigilante and Elektra became a cold hearted assassin, this mini-series is an origin story/love story turned tragic; but the story doesn't go anywhere special, and while writer Greg Rucka is a solid writer in his own right, his story just can't compare with Frank Miller's epic, classic saga of years back.  The art by X-Treme X-Men artist Salvador Larrocca is his typical style while he makes Elektra look simply gorgeous.  This book also contains issue #9 of the regular Daredevil title by David Mack and Joe Quesada which is the beginning of the &quot;Parts of a Hole&quot; story.  I suggest picking up that book instead of this one, and leave this in the dust.	2004-06-13
US	45838740	R2VZ1JKWAKNX86	0785109439	843622287	Incredible Hulk Vol. 1: Return of the Monster	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The second coming indeed	To say that horror writer Bruce Jones is the second coming is an udnerstatement.  When you have some big shoes to fill, here for example the legendary Peter David, Jones managed to hit the ball straight out of the park in the six issues collected here.  He has reinvented the Hulk by focusing the storytelling on Doctor Bruce Banner (rather than on his green skinned alter ego), a fugitive on the run from the law after a young boy is accidently killed during a Hulk incident; and he also soon finds himself hunted by a mysterious conspiracy.  Jones weaves such a meticulously intricate Fugitive-style tale that makes Incredible Hulk such an entertaining read; more so than it has been in years.  Issue #35, in which Bruce has a run-in with an autistic child, is completely dialogue free, yet all the more powerful thanks to John Romita Jr's cinematic-esque art.  Since Jones has taken over writing duties on the Hulk, the book has become one of Marvel's best comics, and with the price this is an absolute must have for any comic or Hulk fan.	2004-06-12
US	45838740	RRFZTHX3IYIIE	1569717516	605035014	Fray	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Brilliant	Buffy the Vampire Slayer creator Joss Whedon wrote this eight issue mini-series for Dark Horse Comics.  Taking place in the 23rd century in a Blade Runner-esque world; young \\"grabber\\" (pretty much a thief) Melaka Fray finds her world turned upside down when a mysterious demon named Urkonn tells her that she is the Slayer.  Faced with a newfound destiny, a tragic past, and plot twists and turns galore; Joss Whedon's Fray is pure brilliance from beginning to end.  Whedon's interpretation of future dialogue is amusing to say the least, and his quirky humor which has always been apparent throughout his various television shows is here as well.  The art by Karl Moline and Andy Owens is amazing stuff indeed; bringing a surreal look to the dark and gritty future world while showing Mel mature more and more as each chapter passes.  The only problem with Fray is in it's pacing.  From the time that Mel accepts her destiny to the end of the book, the war against the vampires happens too quickly.  If you can get past that though, you'll find some pure comic genius here, Joss Whedon style.  Hopefully, Joss will do a much requested follow up to Fray after his current run on Marvel's Astonishing X-Men (also highly recommended).	2004-06-06
US	45838740	R3N0Z9VPLABTLG	0785111964	269476942	Uncanny X-Men Volume 5: She Lies With Angels TPB	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Too dramatic for it's own good	Chuck Austen, arguably the most criticized writer in comics today, continues his Uncanny X-Men run with this five issue arc.  The story revolves around Husk, who along with fellow X-Man Archangel pay her family a visit when her younger brother is injured.  Soon enough a family war stirs up between Husk's Guthrie family and the Cabot family; all the while Husk's other brother Josh (who has angel type wings, hence the title of the book) and Julia Cabot declare their love for each other with Romeo &amp; Juliet-esque results.  Wolverine, Nightcrawler, and Polaris are called in as well; all of which are sadly underused in this arc.  Austen's writing, especially the dialogue between Josh and Julia, is mellowdramatic lovey-dovey fare that doesn't seem realistic one bit, while the action itself is just one big drag.  She Lies With Angels' only saving grace is the art by X-Treme X-Men artist Salvador Larroca which is absolutely gorgeous.  All in all, this is still worth reading, but those who love to criticize Austen will find plenty to nitpick here.	2004-06-04
US	45838740	R1EA9YUFS5N27I	078511078X	811816904	The Ultimates Vol. 2: Homeland Security	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Worth the wait	Note: this review refers to the recently released Ultimates TPB entitled Homeland Security.  After managing to take down the Hulk, the government sponsored superhero team called the Ultimates have run into some problems.  A shape changing alien race, which are responsible for some of humanity's worst moments (Captain America fought them in World War II) are once again rearing their ugly heads with a plan to wipe out the human race.  Sad part is, the Ultimates are in shambles with Janet Pym AKA Wasp severely injured by her husband Hank AKA Giant Man, who himself goes on the run with Captain America in pursuit to teach him how to properly treat a lady.  New members Hawkeye, Black Widow, Scarlet Witch, and Quicksilver are introduced as well as the team unites to defend the planet.  The issues contained in Homeland Security is where the Ultimates really shines, improving on the first few issues by far.  Mark Millar has cleverly crafted a modern day version of the Avengers while staying true to their original roots, while Bryan Hitch's artwork is better than ever.  All this leads up to the upcoming (hopefully, many single issues of the series were loaded with shipping delays and would not reach shelves for months at a time) Ultimates Vol. 2 monthly series which Millar has hinted at will change everything you think about this modern day Avengers team.  All in all, out of all of Marvel's Ultimate line (the new Ultimate Fantastic Four is impressive as well), the Ultimates is something really special.	2004-05-29
US	45838740	R3F9I4FWGW4CL4	0785112324	978561386	Daredevil Vol. 8: Echo - Vision Quest	Books	4	5	8	N	N	David Mack's long awaited return to the Man Without Fear	Award winning painter David Mack made his long awaited return to Daredevil with Echo: Vision Quest; marking the return of the deaf Maya Lopez AKA Echo, who is attempting to reassemble what's left of her life as she goes on a Native American vision quest.  Mack's story revolves around Echo, with DD playing a supporting role and Wolverine makes a surprising appearance to help Echo on her quest.  Mack's storytelling is solid, but his superb paints are what the main attraction is here and help the story progress.  The only problem with Vision Quest is Mack's superb art.  As contradictory as that may sound, his art is and has always been an acquired taste; and that alone will either turn you off or sell you the book.  All in all, if your a fan of Daredevil or David Mack, this is worth picking up.	2004-05-19
US	45838740	R1V6KT93NZOULL	0785113851	527050394	Marvel Encyclopedia Volume 5: Marvel Knights	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Extremely comprohensive, worth owning for fans	Volume 5 of Marvel's Encyclopedia series is dedicated to none other than the Marvel Knights.  Backstories, crossovers, one-shots, mini-series, and just about everything else are revisited and re-told on Daredevil, the Punisher, Blade, and Ghost Rider.  The encyclopedia is painfully comprehensive; featuring stats and vitals on virtually every character that has ever had a role in any comic relating to the aforementioned characters.  The book begins with a few pages dealing with the film adaptations of Daredevil, the Blade trilogy, and the recently released Punisher film, as well as the long overdue Ghost Rider film which is in development.  As comprehensive as this is though, there are plenty of typos, spelling errors, etc. that has also plagued the previous Marvel encyclopedias.  That aside though, any devoted fan of Daredevil, the Punisher, Blade, or Ghost Rider should give this a look nontheless.	2004-05-11
US	45838740	R1PNY9NEHKPJFB	0785108114	279941995	New X-Men Vol. 1: E is for Extinction (v. 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	&quot;To me my X-Men&quot;	After a series of convolted and plain old lame storylines (The Twelve, Operation: Zero Tolerance), Marvel finally had the good sense to get an acclaimed and truly gifted writer to take on everyone's favorite merry mutants.  The great Grant Morrison, along with artist Frank Quitely began they're now classic run on X-Men (re-titled New X-Men) with E is for Extinction.  Introducing us to Professor Xavier's evil twin sister Cassandra Nova and the mass genocide of the mutant populated island of Genosha was just the beginning of Morrison's brilliant run as the X-Men themselves are given a makeover.  The spandex multi-colored suits are gone in place of practical black leather, and the attitude and tone of the book has become more adult as well.  Many different themes are presented in this first collected volume: Cyclops and Jean Grey's marriage is under strain now more than ever, with Emma &quot;White Queen&quot; Frost in the middle of it.  Beast grows more disenchanted, and Wolverine is at his berserker, claw popping best.  We are also introduced to the mysterious mutant healer called Xorn; a character who would have a never even thought of impact before Morrison's run ended.  Quitely's artwork is great and suits the book, no over muscled, cleavage busting (except for Emma that is) character models that were so apparent throughout various X-books during the 90's.  All in all, if you were turned off by the X-Men a few years back after all the lame storylines, you should pick this book up and discover that Grant Morrison is the best writer to ever hit the X-Men since Chris Claremont.	2004-05-10
US	45838740	R3V8MO7YRWNTMJ	0785107711	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 2	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent, an absolute must have	The highlight of Frank Miller's legendary run on Daredevil, Visionaries Volume 2 collects issues 168-182; introducing Elektra and beginning the classic saga which would lead to her death.  In this collected volume, DD tangles with Turk, Sewer King, the Kingpin, and the deranged assassin Bullseye; culminating in the classic battle between Bullseye and Elektra which left her dead.  Miller's cinematic style artwork and superb storytelling perfectly control the pace of the story, something that is nearly impossible to do in comics.  However, while this is an essential book and all, the dialogue can be a bit cheesy and grating at times, but if you can look past that, you'll find one of the greatest stories ever to be written in comic history.  If you're new to Daredevil and like this, pick up Miller's Born Again which manages to be even better than this.	2004-04-29
US	45838740	R280GN05CN51T3	1569714762	294870836	Superman vs. The Terminator: Death to the Future	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Less than mediocre crossover	With all the countless DC/Dark Horse crossovers over the years, Superman VS The Terminator, as the previous reviewer had stated, was practically inevitable.  The storyline picks up after the events of the Terminator 2 film, with Sarah and John Connor in Metropolis on the run from the Skynet sent time traveling terminators.  Eventually, Superman is on the scene, protecting Sarah and John, and he is joined by Supergirl, Suberboy, and Steel.  Lex Luthor is on the scene as well, with his own ulterior motives of course, leading up to a twist ending.  Alan Grant's script has plenty of plot holes and some real bad cheesy dialogue (especially at the end between Supes, Sarah, and Lois Lane), but the plot twists and solid art save this book from being a total stinker.  All in all, this is worth a look for crossover fans, but it's far from being anything special.	2004-04-26
US	45838740	R1MXMF0FB1W6T0	0785114106	270177563	Punisher: Official Movie Adaptation	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	Having just seen the movie, my fears were mostly not met from reading this adaptation before the film came out.  It mirrors the events in the film, but the dialogue is atrocious, something that is quite a surprise from scribe Peter Milligan (X-Statix).  The epic fight between the Punisher and the Russian, one of the best filmed fights in recent memory, is reduced to two pages here.  The whole thing seems rushed, with the art being the only saving grace.  It may be worth a look for Punisher enthusiasts, but it isn't worth laying down any hard earned cash for.  Thankfully, the movie is much better.	2004-04-20
US	45838740	RK8DCT9OO2RFN	0871352974	136880726	Daredevil Legends Vol. II: Born Again	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Brilliant, the best Daredevil story ever told	Born Again marked Frank Miller's return to Daredevil a few years after he penned the legendary Elektra saga.  Here, DD's old flame Karen Page outs Matt's identity for a quick fix, resulting in the Kingpin learning Daredevil's secret identity and the Kingpin nearly succeeding in driving our hero insane.  Matt loses everything: his home, his friends, his law practice, and almost his mind.  Miller discards the Daredevil costume as well for most of the story, focusing more on the true hero behind the mask.  Miller's deconstruction of the hero and his focus on the man in the costume is what makes Born Again so brilliant; it's Daredevil like we've never seen him before (at this point in the comic that is) as we see that this super hero is all the more human, something that made Miller's classic Dark Knight Returns story so good as well.  The art by David Mazzucchelli is nearly perfect as well, and fits the tone of the story.  All in all, if you want the defining Daredevil story, than look no further.	2004-04-20
US	45838740	R1WRI6GKTBGMMT	0785108432	76768866	Elektra: The Scorpio Key (Daredevil)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Great writing overshadowed by some very lacking art	Don't let the eye popping cover art fool you, the art contained in Elektra: The Scorpion Key is very lacking to say the least.  Chuck Austen (current writer of Uncanny X-Men, and writer/artist for U.S. War Machine) has never been anywhere near solid as an artist before he became an exclusive writer, and it shows here in this book collecting the first few issues of Elektra relaunched under the Marvel Knights banner.  Brian Michael Bendis (Daredevil, Alias, Ultimate Spider-Man) has a very well crafted story here, but the disfigured art drags it down.  Were it not for Bendis' stellar (as usual) writing, this book wouldn't be worth reading, but if you can get past Austen's art, this is worth reading for Elektra and Daredevil readers.	2004-04-15
US	45838740	R26ANW0LQHV6KN	0785107371	212530665	Daredevil Visionaries Vol. 1: Guardian Devil (v. 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Returning Daredevil to form	The introduction of the Marvel Knights line was the first step of many in Marvel Comics undergoing an overhaul.  Daredevil wasn't selling anymore, and the stories had degenerated into predictable and rather lackluster storyarcs that were only a shell of the classic Daredevil stories of years ago.  So, Daredevil was re-launched under the Marvel Knights banner, with artist Joe Quesada brought on board, and none other than Clerks and Chasing Amy director Kevin Smith brought on board to scribe the Man Without Fear.  This TPB collects Smith and Quesada's eight issue Guardian Devil storyline in which Matt Murdock/Daredevil finds himself at the center of a would-be conspiracy with a mysterious baby who is proclaimed to be either the savior of the world, or the anti-christ itself.  At the same time, Matt's old flame Karen Page returns, as does the deranged assassin Bullseye, and tragedy soon follows.  Smith's story manages to do the character justice while paying homage to previous Daredevil storylines.  Joe Quesada's art on the other hand has it's up's and down's.  The art as a whole is solid, but his character models look too much like caricatures at times.  The only real problem with Guardian Devil is with the story.  Frank Miller brilliantly injected the notion of catholic guilt into the character, and while Smith manages to do the same, the underlining theme of faith in God is just unnecessary.  That aside though, this was the beginning of some of the best stories to ever hit Daredevil, followed by various runs by David Mack and Brian Michael Bendis, and this volume is worth picking up for alone as a precursor to those brilliant storyarcs.	2004-04-12
US	45838740	R3BFWYDVYU4KY7	0785111751	857972304	Thor: Vikings (Max)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Ultra violent vision of Thor from the great Garth Ennis	Collecting the five issue mini-series by our favorite mad Irishmen scribe Garth Ennis (Punisher, Preacher); Thor: Vikings finds the classic Marvel hero defending modern day New York City from an immortal clan of blood thirsty vikings.  The storyline and presentation is pure Ennis style mayhem: loads of bloody violence combined with an outrageous sense of dark humor; a combination which made his works on The Punisher, Fury, and Preacher so sucessful.  The art by Preacher cover artist Glenn Fabry is more than solid artwork, though Darick Robertson (who did the art for Ennis' Fury and the recent Punisher: Born) would have been a better choice to illustrate all the bloody carnage.  While Thor: Vikings is a great read to be sure, it doesn't strike the same gold as Ennis' previous works, but it doesn't try to either.  All in all, fans of the great Garth Ennis should check this out.	2004-04-06
US	45838740	RQMW3L5Y5SG11	0785112383	931230574	Incredible Hulk Vol. 6: Split Decisions	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brilliant	Bruce Jones' long running conspiracy storyarc comes to a head in Split Decisions.  Still reeling after his encounter with the Absorbing Man, Dr. Bruce Banner finds himself once again in the middle of the secret conspiracy to obtain a sample of Hulk blood.  His old cohort Doc Samson is along for the ride, as is the seemingly invulnerable Sandra Verdugo, Bruce's old flame Nadia Blonsky, and the ever growing more mysterious Mr. Blue.  Loaded with action and a surprising amount of mounting suspense, plus surprises, revelations, and plot twists galore; this is truly the best storyarc to hit the Incredible Hulk in quite some time, and Bruce Jones has proved himself once again to be just as incredible.  Returning artist Mike Deodato has crafted some truly breathtaking artwork, and his comely renderings of the female form are the best in the business next to the great Jim Lee.  All in all, comics today don't usually get better than this.	2004-04-04
US	45838740	RNY35DLBI048V	0785109609	885504710	The Ultimates Vol. 1: Super-Human	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Solid re-imagining of the Avengers	I'm admittadly not the biggest fan of Marvel's Ultimate line, but there was something about The Ultimates that just made me want to give it a look.  Mark Millar's re-imagining of the Avengers is flawed to be sure, but it sure does have it's flashes of brilliance here and there.  Beginning with Captain America's final mission during World War II where he was believed to have been killed, and leading up to his frozen body being found and later joining the government funded Ultimates consisting of Nick Fury, Bruce Banner, Tony Stark, Hank Pym, and his wife Janet.  Later on we are introduced to the mighty Thor, re-invisioned here as a hippie, pacifist who can mysteriously control weather elements and wields a rather large hammer.  Nick Fury undergoes probably the biggest change as he is now black (he looks so much like Samuel L. Jackson it's not even funny) and not the cigar chomping grizzled war hero we knew and loved.  Dr. Bruce Banner is re-imagined as a brilliant scientist who feels left out by the woman he loves (Betty Ross) and the rest of the team, concluding with him becoming the Hulk.  This version of the Hulk is where my biggest gripe is; he's a sex crazed, beer guzzling idiot who rambles moronic things while trying to kill Freddie Prinze Junior (yes, you read that right).  This version of Tony Stark is practically the same as in the regular Marvel universe, although I'm not too fond of the new Iron Man armor.  The volitale relationship between Hank and Janet Pym however, is where the book shines, as the domestic violence and Hank's ego mania takes control and becomes quite chilling.  The rendition of Captain America I really enjoy, even though I wish more of Cap trying to cope with this new world would have been seen.  The art by Bryan Hitch is fantastic, but the book loses points with one too many pop-culture references that are here to remind us that this story is supposed to take place in the present day.  All in all, this is my favorite Ultimate title, but the issues that followed after this (due out soon in the next volume called Homeland Security) is where The Ultimates becomes something really special.t the issues that followed after this (due out soon in the next volume called Homeland Security) is where The Ultimates becomes something really special.	2004-03-21
US	45838740	RVB9DPS7CNOG9	0785110585	306696289	The Hood Volume 1: Blood From Stones TPB (v. 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	&quot;With great power...comes great opportunity&quot;	The Hood: Blood from Stones collects the six issue mini-series by Brian K. Vaughn (Y: The Last Man) and artist Kyle Hotz (Incredible Hulk).  The Hood tells the story of Parker Robbins; a low life street thug who cheats on his pregnant girlfriend, lies to his institutionalized mother, and struggles to make any cash whatsoever.  One night, Parker comes across a mysterious red cloak and a pair of boots which allow him to turn invisible when he holds his breath and walk on the air.  Instead of using these newfound superpowers for the greater good, he turns to the life of a costumed super villian, and is soon wanted by the police and a ruthless crimelord who has employed three lower tier villians in Constrictor, Jack 'O Lantern, and Shocker to terminate The Hood.  Vaughn's imaginitive writing keeps what could have been an otherwise dismal story pumping with action and quirky dialogue, while Hotz' art greatly carries the story along.  I love Marvel's line of MAX comics, but there is something about The Hood that gives me the feeling that Vaughn was a bit restricted with his storytelling.  Maybe it's just me, but as good as The Hood is, it just feels like there is something missing.  That aside though, The Hood is one of the best MAX titles, and is definitely worth picking up.	2004-03-17
US	45838740	R2ROKR8GE307RI	0785112316	4342992	Punisher: Born	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Brilliant, Ennis' best in years	In the tradition of the smash hit Origin: The True Story of Wolverine, Punisher scribe Garth Ennis has crafted Born; telling the never before seen story of a pre-Punisher Frank Castle during his third tour of Vietnam.  While Born may start out as average, it quickly evolves into one of the bloodiest, most shocking, and expertly written stories that has ever come from the pen of Garth Ennis.  This is by far Ennis' best work since his acclaimed Preacher saga, and he is without a doubt the best writer to ever pen the Punisher.  The art by Darick Robertson illustrates all the graphic and gritty detail as he and Ennis both strike gold again as they did earlier with the Fury mini-series.  The twist ending will actually make you look at the character of the Punisher much differently than before, and the unexpected impact will leave your jaw on the floor.  Born is nothing short of brilliant, and deserves to be in every comic fan's library, even if you aren't a fan of the super hero genre of comics.	2004-03-17
US	45838740	R3H0I2NTO47SWK	0785113010	463171428	Cage	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Azzarello has done much better	100 Bullets writer Brian Azzarello was handed the task of revamping Marvel's Luke Cage AKA Power Man, Hero for Hire; a 70's super hero into the modern day and slapping the book with Marvel's MAX title (basically the equivalent to an R-rated movie).  While the art by Richard Corben is superb, Azzarello's writing is a surprising disappointment.  Cage has been turned from a just trying to do the right thing reluctant hero into a gangsta thug just trying to get paid.  He's not much caring about the job he has accepted (avenging the death of a slain girl) and comes off more like a gangster rapper than a super hero.  Brian Michael Bendis, who has given Luke Cage a great characterization in Alias and Daredevil, should have been the scribe here, and even though Azzarello is a superb writer in his own right, Cage just comes off as pointless.  All in all, Cage is a very disappointing read.	2004-03-07
US	45838740	RMYRJFU0A11EX	0785111344	801636687	Uncanny X-Men Volume 4: The Draco TPB	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Not as bad as it is said to be	Chuck Austen's run on Uncanny X-Men is definitely something you'll either love or hate, but I don't think that this storyarc deserves all the one star reviews it has garnered here.  The Draco collects a prologue and a following six issue storyarc as long time X-Man Nightcrawler's past and origin is revealed.  I don't want to ruin the surprises, but the opening prologue as we see Mystique do the unthinkable is worth picking this book up for alone.  What follows is Nightcrawler, along with a group of teleporting and portal opening mutants whom all resemble each other, fleeing to a mysterious island (that was featured in Uncanny X-Men: Holy War) with Havok, Iceman, Archangel, Wolverine, Husk, and Jubilee not far behind.  Meanwhile, Juggernaut and Northstar travel up north to see Sammy in a subplot, while Professor X finally finds out why Polaris has been in homicidal mode recently.  Austen's storytelling isn't as bad as it is made out to be, but the man has always been a better artist than a storyteller.  The art (mainly done by Philip Tan) is more of an acquired taste as well, but it is pretty solid for the most part.  All in all, The Draco isn't a bad book at all, just don't expect anything too special.	2004-03-07
US	45838740	R181ZFY99RILDC	0743479270	902058244	Terminator: The Burning Earth	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Solid Terminator story	Before artist Alex Ross made a name for himself with Marvels and Kingdom Come, he made his debut with Terminator: The Burning Earth; a tie in with the Terminator 2 film.  The story finds an aged adult John Connor leading the remnants of the human resistance against Skynet's forces as Skynet prepares one final attack on humanity.  Ron Fortier's script is full of cheesey dialogue mixed in with some brilliant ideas and an anticlimatic ending.  The real star of this graphic novel is Ross' artwork, which may not be as sophisticated as his recent work, it still manages to present the story brilliantly and perfectly fits the Terminator universe.  This new &quot;Digitally Remastered Collector's Edition&quot; (sounds just like a DVD doesn't it?) seems to try to cash in on Ross' name rather than it's license, which made me a bit skeptical when I picked this up, but I was pleasently surprised for the most part.  All in all, Terminator fans or fans of Ross' unique art should give this a look.	2004-02-20
US	45838740	R1YROYX88FL14F	0785112545	720647158	X-Treme X-Men Vol. 5: God Loves, Man Kills	Books	4	8	10	N	N	One of the better X-Treme X-Men books	Many comic fans have been disappointed with legendary X-Men writer Chris Claremont's run on X-Treme X-Men, but this sequel/remake of his classic X-Men storyline is definitely one of the better story-arcs he's thought of of late.  William Stryker, the televangilist who almost wiped out mutantkind years ago, has escaped his confines with the help of his new ally Lady Deathstrike, and he has bigger plans for mutantkind this time around, and he is manipulating Shadowcat as well.  On his trail are Storm, Wolverine, Bishop, Sage, and Cannonball as the plot thickens and twists are revealed.  The story, even though it is nowhere as profound as the original, is solid Claremont style storytelling.  Shadowcat has always been one of the best characters that Claremont has ever written, and in this story we get inside her head as Stryker tries to use her to his advantage.  The art by Igor Kordey (New X-Men, Cable) is solid as well, even if he tries to hard to draw Wolverine like Hugh Jackman.  The real attraction of this book however, is that the original, and now out of print, God Loves, Man Kills story is included here as well as we see Stryker make his first strike at Professor X and his X-Men (which then included Cyclops, Storm, Wolverine, Colossus, Shadowcat, and Nightcrawler).  This story is the story that inspired the superb X2: X-Men United film, and this book is worth picking up for the original story alone.	2004-02-11
US	45838740	R3QE6Q7UVSGGQS	1563898489	331006216	Preacher: Dead or Alive	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Disappointing	Undoubtadly one of the best comic series' ever created since the Sandman, Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon's Preacher saga is still one of the most revered and beloved comics of all time.  Dead or Alive, a collection of every issue's covers and supposed to be loaded with extras, was anxiously awaited by loyal fans of the series, and much to their disappointment, this collection offers little.  While it does offer every Glen Fabry cover of every issue in the series, the original cover for issue #52 (a cover which was scrapped because of the Columbine incident) is not here, yet it is discussed.  Also, the much looked forward to commentary by Ennis and Fabry is the biggest disappointment in the book.  There are a few chuckles here and there, but it is scant and does not go as in depth as many had hoped.  Other features, such as original sketches and the fantasticly drawn covers themselves, are worth taking a look at the book for, but die hard Preacher fans will feel gyped and only wish there was more.	2004-02-07
US	45838740	R1D5YGW6A4ZCW2	0943151244	121631247	Squee	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hilarious	A spin off of Jhonen Vasquez' Johnny the Homicidal Maniac, Squee is non-stop hilarious from beginning to end.  First featured in the pages of JtHM, his neighbor Squee has his share of very bad luck.  His parents hate him, he has encounters with aliens, he's picked on in school, and he's invited for dinner by another kid named Pepito with horns on his head and has the devil for a father.  There's all this and tons more to be had as Vasquez displays the same type of twisted humor that made JtHM so popular.  I actually like Squee more than I did JtHM; you can't help but feel sorry for the kid while your laughing like an idiot at his plight.  Also included are meanwhiles which include tales involving alien abduction experimentation, big headed vampires, a hilarious take on Tickle Me Elmo, and a tale starring Vasquez in which he gleefully pokes fun at himself.	2004-01-28
US	45838740	R1I9GYQ1KM8NE3	0785100393	971659170	X-Men: God Loves, Man Kills (Marvel Graphic Novel, No 5)	Books	5	0	7	N	N	Classic X-Men story	This classic X-Men story from the golden years of Chris Claremont's legendary run on the book is one of the most well known and well regarded tales to ever hit the X-Men.  The story revolves around William Stryker; a powerful bible banging televangilist with an agenda for mutantkind.  The X-Men are thrown into the thick of Stryker's would be crusade, with Magneto waiting in the wings with plans of his own.  Claremont's superb and powerful storytelling is at his best here, and maybe is his best next to the classic Dark Phoenix Saga.  The art is great as well, although some may find it a bit too 80's.  The basic story of God Loves, Man Kills, would be used in the X2: X-Men United movie which used a villian named Stryker, only instead of him having power through religion he had it through the military.  Even though this story is out of print, you can find it in the X-Treme X-Men: God Loves, Man Kills 2 book.	2004-01-26
US	45838740	R233W9WWRQHKZ4	1401200842	192335505	2: Batman: Hush - Volume Two (Batman (DC Comics Hardcover))	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Continuing the best Batman storyarc in years	Collecting the final issues of the \\"Hush\\" storyarc by Jeph Loeb and Jim Lee; just about everything comes full circle as the storyline comes to a close.  Loeb's talent for underwriting comes to a head as secrets are revealed, although I must say that the identity of Hush wasn't something we all didn't see coming.  More of Batman's infamous enemies surface: including the Riddler, Clayface, and even the Joker in a pivotal scene.  Lee's art is superb as always, and his rendering of Catwoman is plain mouthwatering.  Since \\"Hush\\" was a huge hit for DC, Loeb and Lee have promised to come back to Batman to write a follow up, but whether or not it can live up to this storyarc will remain to be seen.	2004-01-20
US	45838740	R1LZ9WKDGYPM9Z	0743410173	675108508	The Quotable Slayer (Buffy the Vampire Slayer Series)	Books	4	41	43	N	N	A nice Buffy relic	Compiling a solid collection of memorable quotes from all seven seasons of Buffy the Vampire Slayer, The Quotable Slayer is a nice little Buffy relic that long time fans will appreciate.  Even though some of the quotes are either condensed or different from what was said on the show (such as Angel's Passion voice over, undoubtadly one of the best quotes from the series) and some of the episode titles are wrong from where the quote was taken from (the talk between Xander and Andrew regarding Anya's fate in the final episode \\"Chosen\\"; here it is listed as being from \\"End of Days\\"), that aside this is still worth owning for any and every Buffy fan; and you all know who you are.	2004-01-13
US	45838740	R29Y9CHQCYEI9I	0785101284	390414651	Factor X (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A bold new world	When Legion, illigitamite son of Charles Xavier, traveled back in time to kill Magneto and accidently killed Xavier, an alternate world was created called the Age of Apocalypse in which Xavier never lived to form the X-Men and Apocalypse took over North America and most of the world.  All the regular X-titles were put in hiatus for four months and replaced with alternate titles.  Factor X (X-Factor) finds a faction of Apocalypse's followers.  His first horseman Mr. Sinister, the enigmatic one eyed, long haired Cyclops, his jealous, insane brother Havok, and the evil and twisted Beast.  Jean Grey stops by later on, and we see Cyclops take a heroic turn and then all hell breaks loose.  The story line drags quite a bit in the beginning, but picks up momentum once the action gets going.  Cyclops' characterization isn't all that different from his real world counterpart, while the evil and corrupt take on Beast must be seen to be believed.  The &quot;Dark&quot; Beast was even used more when the Age of Apocalypse ended and went on to do battle with the normal reality Beast numerous times.  All in all, Factor X is one of the lesser AoA books, but plays an important part in the whole storyline.	2004-01-11
US	45838740	R13J2UN11GK9ZV	1563893150	887239526	Superman: Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?	Books	5	18	19	N	N	The real end of an era	Before the infamous Death of Superman hit, legendary writer Alan Moore (Watchmen, From Hell, League of Extraordinary Gentlemen) was enlisted to write this final tale of the original pre-Crisis on Infinite Earths Superman.  Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow is a mroe satisfying, fitting, and touching end of Superman as we see the hero pushed to his limits when the whole world is seemingly against him.  He faces off against a plethora of his old enemies including Bizarro, Brainiac, Lex Luthor, and a surprise villian who is pulling all the strings.  The art by Curt Swan and George Perez is superb, and Moore's writing is some of the best that ever hit the Man of Tomorrow.  All in all, even though it is a bit short, I strongly suggest tracking this down; you won't be disappointed.	2004-01-11
US	45838740	R37G8MQ8WL6LRS	0785101330	720568472	X-Man (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A new hero arises	When Legion, illigitamite son of Charles Xavier, traveled back in time to kill Magneto and accidently killed Xavier, an alternate world was created called the Age of Apocalypse in which Xavier never lived to form the X-Men and Apocalypse took over North America and most of the world.  All the regular X-titles were put in hiatus for four months and replaced with alternate titles.  X-Man (Cable) tells the story of young Nate Grey; a mysterious mutant created from the DNA of Scott &quot;Cyclops&quot; Summers and Jean Grey who is the most powerful mutant on the planet and is destined to face Apocalypse.  Jeph Loeb's intricate writing is chock full of surprises and twists, and Nate's slugfest with Mr. Sinister is a must see.  Even after the AoA saga concluded, X-Man continued to be a monthly title for a few years with Loeb at the helm in the beginning.  All in all, X-Man is one of the best stories in the AoA storyline, and I strongly suggest looking up the Twilight of the Age of Apocalypse TPB to see Nate go toe to toe with Apocalypse and Holocaust.	2004-01-11
US	45838740	R3GX89BCNUFO85	0785111115	812951495	Fantastic Four Vol. 2: Unthinkable	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Brilliant	Arguably the best storyarc to hit the Fantastic Four in years, Unthinkable solidifies Mark Waid (Flash, Kingdom Come) as one of the best comic writers in the business today.  Doctor Doom returns to face the Fantastic Four, but unlike every other time he fought them this time he is using magic as opposed to his scientific prowess.  He starts off by sending Reed and Sue's son Franklin to Hell to be tortured, while giving similar punishment to the rest of the FF.  All this while Reed \\"Mr. Fantastic\\" Richards tries to find a way to stop him and save his family.  Waid's characterizations of the FF and Doom respectively are nothing short of brilliant; Reed isn't just the super genious as he is known for as we see him blaming himself for the events because he thinks he's too idiotic to work magic.  Waid's characterization of Doom is great as well as we see how hell bent for vengeance against the FF he is, and the shocker of an ending is brilliant as well.  The art by Mike Wieringo is great as well, even if it looks a little cartoony.  All in all, Unthinkable is one of the best storyarcs to hit the FF in years.	2004-01-03
US	45838740	R1ZLFEY8S0C96N	0943151031	993167326	Lenore, Vol. 1: Noogies (Issues 1-4) (v. 1)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Possibly the closest I've come to being offended recently	The first time I read Noogies, the first volume in Roman Dirge's Lenore series, I can honestly say it was the first time in a very long time that I was close to being offended, but I couldn't help but laugh.  Lenore is an adorable dead little girl with a penchant for mistreating the babies she babysits or the furry animals that come across her way; most of the time resulting in a gruesome death for the poor souls.  However, you'll find it hard not to laugh when you see it all unfold.  Dirge has his toungue planted firmly in cheek throughout the proceedings of Noogies, and you'll find maximum enjoyment from it as long as you don't take it seriously.  If you like this, check out Johnny the Homicidal Maniac and Squee.	2004-01-01
US	45838740	R1RFOOA7I3P59X	0785111492	709861947	The Punisher Vol. 4: Full Auto	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Never quite kicks into full gear	Volume 4 of the Punisher TPB series; Full Auto collects three stories that are alright but never quite kick into high gear.  The first story concerns our favorite vigilante on the trail of two cops that may be dirty, the second tale focuses on a mobster obsessed with what may be an urban legend, and the final story finds Frank going toe to toes with a horde of homeless people underground.  The first story is worth the price of admission alone, but the second story is disappointing to say the least.  The final story manages to be effectively creepy and reminiscent of Garth Ennis' Preacher series.  The art in all the tales is solid, but this TPB collection actually manages to show Ennis at his best and near worst as a writer.  All in all, this isn't the overall worst Punisher collection of Ennis' current run, and is worth a look for Punisher fans.	2003-12-31
US	45838740	RX990B5UU1657	1563893401	638602713	Preacher Special: Blood & Whiskey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting prelude to the Preacher saga	A one shot featuring Preacher regular Cassidey, Blood &amp; Whiskey is a precursor to the events in the opening Preacher storyline Gone to Texas.  When the hard drinking Irish vampire Cassidey goes to New Orleans, he meets another vampire named Eccarius who lives his immortal life exactly as a vampire would in an Anne Rice novel.  Cassidey tries to help him out from &quot;being such a wanker&quot;, but not all goes according to plan.  Ennis' story is hilarious and blood curdling at the same time; something he became known for with the Preacher comics, while Steve Dillon's art is superb as always.  The events in this story would play an important part later on in the Preacher series as Cassidey's character became more developed, and you can find this story re-pritned in the Preacher: Dixie Fried TPB.	2003-12-25
US	45838740	RP947C0Z6YTYC	0785111417	305560	Alias Vol. 1	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent	The great Brian Michael Bendis has done it again.  With Marvel's first title to warrant the &quot;MAX&quot; title (intense violence and language), Alias shows Bendis at his best.  His penchant for dialog and unconventional storytelling is so proudly displayed in this first collection of the series that it is easy to see why he is one of the most revered writers in comics.  Alias tells the story of former Avenger Jessica Jones, who has since quit being a superhero and has opened her own private detective agency called Alias Investigations.  Even though she still has superpowers and Alias takes place in the underbelly of the Marvel Universe, Bendis manages to make Jessica seem like a real life everyday person.  She is obsessive, self destructive, and usually looking to do the right thing.  In this first collected volume, she has a one night stand with Luke Cage, becomes entangled in a conspiracy involving Captain America's secret identity, and meets Matt Murdock.  Michael Gaydos' art is a gritty almost Frank Miller-esque style that suits Alias well, even though it may take some getting used to.  All in all, this is superb comics storytelling that one could only expect from Bendis.	2003-12-20
US	45838740	R2SFNHFSPXIRA9	0785110968	324690735	The Punisher Vol. 5: Streets of Laredo	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Ennis' lowpoint so far on his Punisher run	Fact one: Garth Ennis is a superb writer when allowed to push the limits that he is known for (don't believe me, check out the Preacher comics).  Fact two: his run on the Punisher is the best storytelling to hit the character in years.  However, this four part storyarc is far from the best work to come from Ennis, but not all the blame can be contributed to him.  When allowed to go over the limits of what can be done in a comic, Ennis' true talent shines, but when he is restricted (this is a PG+ book after all) his storytelling suffers, and it shows here.  Not only that, but Cam Kennedy's art grates on the nerves quite a bit.  I just can't get into it; his misshapen character models are an acquired taste to say the least.  I mean his look of the Punisher just doesn't stick well; artists like Steve Dillon and Tom Mandrake have done far better than Kennedy.  All that aside however, this is a solid storyarc that is still worth reading for Punisher fans.  The story finds our favorite criminal killing vigilante in the desolate Texas town of Branding trying to stop the flow of illegal military weapons from leaving the town.  We are introduced to a flat villain and one dimensional characters, something that is shocking to say the least to come from the pen of Garth Ennis.  Streets of Laredo is so far the worst of Ennis' run on the Punisher, but this is still better than most comics out there today.	2003-12-15
US	45838740	RUURGLB2RUQSY	0785108963	765596633	Wolverine Gambit: Victims	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not the best from Loeb and Sale	You'd figure with the great work that Jeph Loeb and Tim Sale have done together on Batman and Daredevil that they could weave a good tale starring X-Men members Wolverine and Gambit.  Well, you'd figure wrong.  Collecting a four issue mini-series, Victims finds Gambit travelling to London to investigate a series of Jack the Ripper type murders that Wolverine may or may not be involved in.  This mini-series was released not long after the Age of Apocalypse saga ended (when reality returned to normal, Wolverine had succumbed to his feral urges, which is tied into this story as Wolvie being a suspect), but there are so many loose ends and plot holes that make Victims seem like it was rushed to the printers.  Sale's art is as good here as it's ever been, which is one of this story's only saving graces.  Loeb is a phenominal writer; just about everything he's done from his recent Batman run to Daredevil to Cable and even X-Man has been nothing short of superb, but Victims is purely disappointing.	2003-12-02
US	45838740	RM2DYRFMHS0UI	0785111514	251319518	Incredible Hulk Vol. 5: Hide in Plain Sight	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Another solid chapter in Bruce Jones' Hulk saga	Collecting the five part storyarc, Hide in Plain Sight finds Carl Creel AKA The Absorbing Man with a new ability that allows him to jump in and out of peoples minds.  This little technique proves handy considering he's trapped in an underground prison, and who just so happens to be in the middle of this?  That's right, good 'ol Bruce Banner.  Hide in Plain Sight ie yet another more than solid chapter scripted by Bruce Jones, undoubtadly the best writer of the Hulk since Peter David.  The story is a bit of a sidebar to Jones' continuing conspiracy storyarc, but this is a welcome distraction.  Leo Fernandez's art seems a bit cartoony for me, he doesn't give Hulk the gritty look that is done so superbly by Mike Deodato, but the art isn't bad by any means.  All in all, Hide in Plain Sight is yet another more than solid chapter in Bruce Jones' excellent Hulk saga.	2003-11-26
US	45838740	R23QX1XBLI612O	0785111689	365939794	Daredevil Vol. 7: Hardcore	Books	5	3	6	N	N	How do you kill a man without fear?	This five part storyline is even more solid proof that Brian Michael Bendis is a modern day visionary.  Not since Frank Miller has anyone painted a more gritty, realistic portrait of the Man Without Fear.  The last part of Bendis' long time run on the Daredevil series, Hardcore finds the blind vigilante even more popular with the people of Hell's Kitchen now that his identity has been outed, and this story contains some of the most memorable scenes and moments to happen in the pages of Daredevil in quite some time.  After dueling with The Owl, we see our hero being attempted to stay at bay by Wilson Fisk who is trying to reclaim his mantle as the Kingpin of crime.  Daredevil has a run in with Typhoid Mary, followed by one of the most violent and memorable fights with Bullseye that must be seen to be believed.  The final battle with the Kingpin seals up this package, the conclusion of which for now (I should say forever, but this is the Marvel Universe after all) changes Daredevil forever.  Bendis' knack for gritty storytelling is at his best, while the art by Alex Maleev is superb as always.  Appearances by Luke Cage and Jessica Jones (from Bendis' other series Alias, no, not the TV show either) are featured here as well, and this storyline is a fine swan song for Bendis and Maleev.	2003-11-22
US	45838740	R1UTUSEAMAOXM4	0785107835	223439464	The Punisher Vol. 1: Welcome Back, Frank	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Welcome back Frank	At a time when Marvel Comics themselves were going through some big changes, the team who created the Preacher comic series (undoubtadly the best adult comic of the 90's) were enlisted to re-vitalize one of Marvel's most recognized, and most misused characters: The Punisher.  Writer Garth Ennis and artist Steve Dillon brought back the heavily armed vigilante the way he was always meant to be; not as an avenging angel or superhero, but as the hard edged, criminal killing vigilante that we all know and love.  This TPB collects the entire 12 issue maxi-series that was a surprising best seller (it sold so well that Marvel re-launched a new monthly Punisher series with Ennis and Dillon at the helm) and it's easy to see why.  Ennis' darkly humerous and action filled storytelling along with Dillon's fantastic artwork, a combination which made Preacher a winner, breathe new life into the Punisher.  The storyline revolves around good 'ol Frank Castle waging his one man war against Ma Gnucchi and her crime syndicate family.  We are introduced to Frank's neighbors who you won't soon forget including the lonely and frightened Joan the Mouse, the heavily pierced Spacker Dave, and the overweight Mr. Bumpo; all of which make profound impacts in the story.  We are also introduced to the Russian; a demented killer who Frank has a climatic face off against in the climax of the story.  This TPB is nothing short of amazing, and it brings the Punisher back to his ultra violent gun toting roots.	2003-10-29
US	45838740	R1S2W8W8OX6LQ	067102440X	923544373	Caliban Cove (Resident Evil #2)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The first original Resident Evil novel	Caliban Cove is the second installment in the Resident Evil novelization series and the first original work of the series written by S.D. Perry.  After the events of Umbrella Conspiracy, Caliban Cove serves as an interlude between the events of Umbrella Conspiracy and City of the Dead, with Rebecca Chambers (one of the survivors of Umbrella Conspiracy) teaming up with fellow S.T.A.R.S. operatives and infiltrating a lighthouse base where more grotesque Umbrella experiments are being conducted.  Naturally, everything goes wrong, people die, and blood runs like water.  Caliban Cove has it's share of unexpected twists and turns, but it just isn't as compelling as the previous and proceeding novels.  Although this isn't the worst in Perry's series of novelizations (that would belong to Underworld), don't walk into this one with too high expectations.	2003-10-24
US	45838740	R3HYZNG18RDWF	067178496X	163404979	Nemesis (Resident Evil #5)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent	S.D. Perry did it again.  Just like she did with Umbrella Conspiracy and City of the Dead, Perry has managed to take the storyline of a Resident Evil game and has made it even more explosive, suspenseful, scary, and riveting.  Nemesis, the fifth book in the series, finds Jill Valentine trying to survive and escape the zombie infested Raccoon City.  However, there is something else afoot that is after her.  Not just zombies, or mutated dogs, or hunters; she is being hunted by a creature called the Nemesis: a gigantic misshapen monster that is on a mission.  Perry once again manages to give memorable and great characterizations of the characters from the video game, including the mercenary Carlos who wasn't too likeable in the game, becomes quite likeable here.  Many of the game's most memorable moments are played out here; the highlight of which is the chicken-hearted pilot Brad Vickers and his first (and last) encounter with the Nemesis while a horrified Jill watches first hand.  All in all, next to City of the Dead and Umbrella Conspiracy, this is the best Resident Evil novelization.	2003-10-22
US	45838740	RZHGWKWTYQASY	0785109234	93441252	Punisher War Zone Volume 1 TPB	Books	4	5	5	N	N	One of the all time best Punisher stories	Despite my love for The Punisher, throughout his many series' (he's been re-launched as a monthly title I do believe four times by now, not to mention the War Journal series as well as this title) he hasn't always had the best storylines.  This TPB collects one of the best storylines in the history of the character with a great gritty script by Chuck Dixon and some just as gritty art by John Romita, Jr.  Here we witness our beloved anti-hero vigilante infiltrating a crime family with the idea of bringing it down from the inside.  Naturally, his cover gets blown and we are treated to the usual balet of blood, bullets, and carnage.  I really like Dixon's interpretation of the character; arguably the best the Punisher would receive until Garth Ennis jumped aboard a few years back.  The action scenes are nicely orchestrated and there are memorable moments aplenty (including Frank's longtime partner Micro running out on him).  Romita, Jr's rendering of the Punisher is one of the most recognizeable depictions of the character in all of the title's history, five 'o clock shadow and all.  All in all, this is one of the best storylines in the history of the Punisher, and is definitely worth checking out if you missed out on it all those years back.	2003-10-21
US	45838740	RO4DK619JQPTR	0785107576	705344768	Daredevil Visionaries - Frank Miller, Vol. 1	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Brilliant	This first collected edition of Frank Miller's (The Dark Knight Returns) brilliant run on Daredevil features some of the best storytelling to come out of Marvel in years, and the best Daredevil storyline to ever be published.  Collecting all the classic issues that let readers read their favorite blind vigilante tangling with his arch nemesis the Kingpin of crime, the insane assassin Bullseye, and the mysterious group known as The Hand.  But Miller's run was most notable for the introduction of Elektra: the beautiful assassin who was the love of Matt Murdock's life, and the tragic enemy of Daredevil.  Miller's writing gave the Daredevil/Matt Murdock character more depth than he had ever had before, and the fact that when a new character is introduced (Elektra) and dispatched not long after and the reader actually cares, that in itself is a milestone in the comic biz, especially Marvel Comics.  The showdown between Elektra and Bullseye gives me chills to this day when I read his dialog; I'm still surprised the comic was printed way back when considering the comic code.  The art may turn off some readers, but it manages to grow on you (just like Miller's art on Dark Knight Returns).  All these years later and all the writers and artists that have come and gone like Brian Michael Bendis, David Mack, Kevin Smith, Joe Quesada, John Romita Jr., and others (regardless of how great work they all did on the character), it is Frank Miller's which still remains the best.  The mega budget feature film which starred Ben Affleck was mainly based off the events from these issues, and if you enjoyed the film than you should definitely pick this up.	2003-10-14
US	45838740	R26QVPQF8OM14M	0671024426	38490995	Underworld  (Resident Evil #4)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	More of a side story to the novel series	Resident Evil: Underworld, the fourth installment in S.D. Perry's novelizations of the popular video game, finds the City of the Dead survivors (Leon and Claire) meeting up with Caliban Cove's survivors (Rebecca, David, and John) and infiltrating an underground Umbrella testing base.  The group is thrown face first as would be test subjects against a handful of Umbrella's grotesque mutated beasts, and the novel ends with more of a whimper than a bang.  Underworld is undoubtadly the least compelling installment in the novel series, and it works best as more of a side story to the events between City of the Dead and Nemesis.  The stunning revelations about Trent towards the end of the book is worth the price of admission here alone, but otherwise keep this at the bottom of your Resident Evil novel wish list.	2003-10-14
US	45838740	R3EJ2DELECTS5L	0785101993	703312684	Venom: Carnage Unleashed	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Another ho-hum Venom mini-series	Ever since Venom reared his ugly head years ago in the pages of Spider-Man, he's starred in so many mini-series' over the years with a few being above average, many so-so, and many more as downright dull.  Carnage Unleashed is one of the more so-so Venom stories, but it's better than some of the other comics Venom has starred in (Venom: The Mace anyone?).  The story revolves around a video game being made based on Carnage, and Eddie &quot;Venom&quot; Brock isn't too happy about the fact that a known murderer is profiting off of something which promotes what he does.  Naturally, Carnage soon breaks free of his confines and dukes it out with Venom via digital cyberspace.  It sounds ridiculous, oh yes, but the flow of the story has a sort of cartoony feel to it thanks to the usual solid storytelling of Larry Hama.  The art is so-so most of the time, but all together this is one of the more average Venom sagas.	2003-10-05
US	45838740	R12YGI9MNTRZZZ	0785100652	249074560	X-men: Fatal Attractions	Books	5	26	28	N	N	One of the most dramatic stories in X-Men history	Fatal Attractions collects X-Factor #92, X-Force #25, Uncanny X-Men #304, X-Men #25, Wolverine #75, and Excalibur #71.  When Magneto returns to his Acolytes and becomes more of a threat to humanity than ever before, all of the X-teams become engaged in battle in this then shocking cross over; the effects of which were felt in the X-books for almost a decade.  Many memorable moments are to be found here including the fight between Magneto and Cable which leaves Cable a bloody, ripped apart mess, Colossus betraying the X-Men and siding with Magneto, Magneto ripping the adamantium out of Wolverine's body, and the final showdown between Magneto and Professor X; the culmination of which would create the Onslaught storyline years later which crossed through every Marvel title and caused the deaths of the Avengers, Captain America, Iron Man, the Fantastic Four, and countless other heroes.  If your interested in picking this collection up, I'd go for the single issues (each of which had really cool covers with an attached hologram card) instead of this TPB.  All in all, this is one of the most dramatic X-stories in years, and undoubtadly one of the best.	2003-10-01
US	45838740	R20PNU7AC8AC2P	078510819X	272777752	X-Force - Volume 1: New Beginnings	Books	4	1	2	N	N	X-Force gets overhauled	Since Joe Quesada became Marvel's new Editor in Chief, many of Marvel's long running books have either taken new directions or have gotten completely overhauled.  Writer Peter Milligan and artist Mike Allred were enlisted to give X-Force a facelift just like Grant Morrison had done with New X-Men, and they've done a very commendable job.  Towards the end of the X-Force I grew up with, it had become a series of re-hashes and the characters just weren't that likeable anymore; thanks to Milligan we get an interesting core of new characters who aren't here to help save the world or fight for mutantkind, they're here for one reason: to make money.  This new X-Force is actually more believeable than some X-Men stuff, I know if I had awe inspiring powers and abilities I'd be exploiting them to make a quick buck.  Allred's artwork is decent at best, but it's more of an acquired taste.  This new X-Force is an interesting read, but I myself do miss the days of Cable, Cannonball, Boomer, Siryn, Warpath, Shatterstar, Rictor, Sunspot, and Feral, and heck, even Caliban and Domino just a bit.  All that aside though, this is a good read that does become a bit addicting after a while.  Soon after Milligan and Allred began they're run, X-Force was re-titled X-Statix due to copyright issues.	2003-09-30
US	45838740	R397IHGK5LGMUZ	0785102566	785585710	Essential X-Men Vol. 1	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Classic issues yes, but not the best collection	First off I will say that the issues collected here from Chris Claremont's early legendary run on the X-Men are essential reads for any X-Men fan, but Marvel should have really put more thought and money into this volume of Essential X-Men.  The entire book is in black and white, no color at all except for the covers of the book.  Also, the cover itself is made of poor quality material and scratches up and tears easily.  All that aside, this TPB brings us the new team of X-Men which includes Wolverine and Banshee, and also introduces us to Colossus, Nightcrawler, and Storm.  The new X-Men face off against Magneto, Juggernaut, the Shi'ar, and we also see the death of a fellow X-Man who actually managed to stay dead for quite some time (and in the Marvel universe, especially in the X-Men universe, that is a hard thing to do).  All in all, this collection is a good pick up for any X-Men fan, just beware before you buy.	2003-09-29
US	45838740	R1EO96ATQXR80V	0785111131	593041915	Incredible Hulk Vol. 4: Abominable	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another chapter from the incredible Bruce Jones	Bruce Jones is unquestionably the best writer to come along to the Hulk comic series since legendary Hulk scribe Peter David, and while I don't find Abominable the best chapter of Jones' Hulk saga; it is a great and enjoyable read nonetheless.  The mysterious organization hell bent on capturing the Hulk has hired Emil Blonsky: also known as the Abomination who is one of the Hulk's deadliest foes.  In the meantime, Bruce Banner finds himself getting very, VERY, cozy with Blonsky's estranged wife Nadia.  The storyarc manages to make Banner the center of the story, not his monsterous alter ego which was a main point of the series for years.  The final showdown between the Hulk and the Abomination is worth the price of admission here alone, but the beautiful art by Mike Deodato makes this book very worthwhile.  Before picking this up though, it is a very good idea to start with the beginning of Jones' Hulk stories or you'll find yourself lost in the conspiracy storyarc.	2003-09-25
US	45838740	RZUYB4OTGTMSN	078510965X	918692176	Wolverine: Origin	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Doesn't quite live up to the hype, but still a good read	Collecting the smash hit six issue mini series; Origin tells the never before told story on everyone's favorite X-Man and the beginning of his mysterious past.  We learn that young James Howlett's (yes folks, his real name isn't Logan afterall) life has been tragedy filled since his birth, and as he ages we are led to read between the lines of some family secrets.  The story by current Marvel heads Bill Jemas and Joe Quesadatries to weave various connections between this timeline and current X-Men storylines (such as Logan's apparent admiration for redheads, his connection to a very large, almost animal like man, both of whom share similar attributes..., and the fact that his claws have always been bone, a fact made in the X-Men: Fatal Attractions storyline from years ago when Magneto ripped out all of Wolvie's adamantium) and manages to succeed for the most part, but the art by Andy Kubert and Richard Isanove is reason enough to buy the book alone.  The only real problem with Origin is that the climax and conclusion leave you wanting so much more, and the way it ends just tells you that there is so much more story to tell.  A sequel is rumored to be in the works, and I for one can't wait long enough for it.	2003-09-17
US	45838740	R1EGK4WFNOWBV	078510965X	918692176	Wolverine: Origin	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good story, but leaves you wanting more	After all the hype surounding it, Origin: The True Story of Wolverine manages to make for compelling storytelling on the previously unknown past of Wolverine; but by the time the climax is reached and the story is over, you can't help but want more.  The story is interesting enough: more insight is given into young James Howlett's (yes folks, Wolverine's real name isn't Logan afterall!) early beginning, the manifestation of his powers (and the first time he pops his clws), and his tragic life.  The art by Andy Kubert and Richard Isanove is absolutely superb, but the overall story manages to fall short of it's potential.  Plus, by the time we get to the eventual end of the story; it is clear that there is so much left to tell.  Rumors have been swirling about a sequel to Origin since the six issue mini-series concluded; and I for one am anxiously awaiting it.  All in all, Origin is a solid tale of Wolverine's past, but long time X-fans might not embrace it and take it seriously as much as newer fans will.	2003-09-16
US	45838740	R1P2T0DYGMKB9B	0785108785	685956280	Fury MAX (Fury #1-6)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Meet Nick Fury	After his long run on the classic and critically acclaimed Preacher series and his re-invention of The Punisher, Garth Ennis was given the task of giving the same treatment to Nick Fury.  And what a job he did.  Collecting the six issue mini-series; Fury tells the story of a modern day Nick Fury: a profanity laden, whorring, cold war dinosaur who longs for the days when he could shoot first and ask questions later.  Tired of his day in, day out life, his hopeless and annoying &quot;nephew&quot; Wendel, and disgusted by what S.H.I.E.L.D. (the organization he used to run) has become; he is soon made an offer by an old enemy to go off to some little third world country and start a war of their own to re-live their glory days.  Nick doesn't take him seriously, but soon enough he learns it was no joke, and once again Nick Fury is being counted upon.  Ennis has really gone all out here: full of his penchant ultra graphic violence, a severe lack of being politically correct, and being insanely darkly humerous; Fury is one of the best pieces of comic art to come out of Marvel in quite some time.  The art by Darick Robertson and Jimmy Palmiotti is as equally fantastic and shows all the graphic, gritty detail.  Also, look for various in-jokes and references to Ennis' Preacher saga; including a man whose disfigured face is a clear homage/re-interpretation of Arseface from the Preacher comics.  All in all, if you like comics in the least bit and can handle everything contained in these pages (it well deserves it's Parental Advisory label) then you will definitely love Fury.  Also highly recommended is any of Ennis' work on The Punisher.	2003-09-16
US	45838740	R338RNBRSFTSW	0446394866	165414834	Metallica Unbound	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is how to do a band bio	Spanning Metallica's entire history up until 1993; this slickly put together unofficial biography is an absolute must have for Metallica fans young and old.  Full of facts (both widely known and others not known at all) and unpublished pictures of the band from their garage days to their glory days, the only thing that K.J. Doughton's book lacks is in terms of depth about Cliff Burton's untimely death and more of what Jason Newsted went through in joining the band.  All that aside however, out of all the &quot;unauthorized&quot; and &quot;unofficial&quot; biographies of Metallica that have been out there for years, this is undoubtadly the most well put together one, and is surely the best.	2003-09-10
US	45838740	R2U2ZE0HT5YY93	0785100245	365023355	Daredevil - Fall from Grace	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not the best Daredevil story	This 1994 event was supposed to be a major chapter in the Daredevil comic series, and it is and isn't in many ways.  The storyline revolves around a virus called About Face which it seems everyone wants to get their hands on.  Daredevil is re-united with Elektra as they try to stop the Snakeroot from obtaining it, and in between Daredevil's identity is revealed by an ambitious reporter, and culminates in a faceoff between Daredevil and Elektra against Snakeroot, the Hellspawn (no, not that one), and Erynys; a killer created in Elektra's image.  The plot is confusing beyond belief at points, but the excellent art elevate this otherwise disappointing Daredevil saga.  Fall From Grace also features appearances from Venom, Morbius, and Silver Sable; all of whom are mostly here for show.	2003-08-18
US	45838740	R2XP6LXRLTMDH6	0785108459	402291375	Marvel Masterworks: The X-Men Vol. 1	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The beginning at last	This is it folks, this is where everyone's favorite merry mutants hit the comic scene and would go on to make an impact that not even Stan Lee could have predicted.  Collecting the first 10 issues of The X-Men (years later it would be re-titled Uncanny X-Men); we are introduced to Professor X, Cyclops, Marvel Girl, Iceman, Angel, and the Beast: the original team of X-Men.  Right off the bat they are thrown into battle against Magneto, and would later on face off against his Brotherhood of Evil Mutants (which included Toad, Mastermind, Scarlet Witch, and Quicksilver) and introduces us to the Blob and Ka-Zar.  Namor the Sub-Mariner and the Avengers also make appearances, but the heart of this TPB lies within Stan Lee's story.  He had described the X-Men as a hybrid between the Fantastic Four and Spider-Man: a team with otherworldly superhuman powers who faced the alienation and isolation of being different and being feared by normal humans.  Jack Kirby's pencils are more than a throwback to Marvel's Golden Age, and for the most part they still stand the test of time.  Though the story doesn't directly deal with Magneto's past and his reasons for his beliefs of mutant supremacy; this Marvel Masterworks collection is a must have for any and every fan of the X-Men.	2003-08-09
US	45838740	RMR26EQDY7AOQ	1575601958	100435170	METALLICA GARAGE INC.	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Definitely worth owning	Containing all 27 covers from Metallica's underrated &quot;Garage Inc.&quot; album, this book is truly a must have for any Metallica fan who plays guitar.  Featuring tabliture as well as the vocals for each song, this book takes you completely through all the songs from &quot;Free Speech For the Dumb&quot; all the way to &quot;Too Late Too Late&quot;, and it provides extensive tips as well as bonus color photos of the band (most of which are taken directly out of the album's booklet) which nicely round out the package.  All in all, this is worth the price tag, and as I said before, is definitely worth owning if your a Metallica fan and are advanced enough on guitar.  A beginner guitar edition of this book is also available for those less skilled and should be available on the band's website.	2003-08-03
US	45838740	R3L5GOMPLHIXVV	0671024418	802709862	City of the Dead (Resident Evil #3)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fan of the games or not, this is an incredible read	City of the Dead, the third book in S.D. Perry's series of Resident Evil novels, more than covers all the ground from the video game it is based and adapted from (Resident Evil 2), but it is all the more compelling, scary, and suspenseful and is the true definition of a &quot;page turner&quot;.  The story begins a few months after the incident at the mansion in Raccoon City when rookie cop Leon Kennedy arrives for his first day on the job.  When he arrives in the town; he finds it desserted minus the re-animated corpses with a taste for human flesh strolling around.  He soon meets up with Claire Redfield who is searching for her brother Chris (the hero from the first game and novel); and the two encounter a host of other characters human and non-human alike.  Perry's knack for developing her characters is in full effect here, and the reader never feels left out when the action goes full throttle.  City of the Dead flows nearly identical to the game it is adapted from, which fans of the game will no doubt be pleased with.  All in all, City of the Dead is one of, if not the, best books in Perry's Resident Evil series, and even if your not a fan of the games but are a fan of horror and zombie films than you should definitely give this a look.	2003-07-30
US	45838740	R1QZIRGZ9SIHHT	0671024396	590581301	The Umbrella Conspiracy (Resident Evil #1)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A great telling of the original video game	The Umbrella Conspiracy is the first in a series of adaptations of the popular Capcom survival horror video game series written by S.D. Perry.  Fans of the first game will be pleased to find that this book is a near perfect re-telling of the storyline in the first Resident Evil video game as we are introduced to Chris Redfield, Jill Valentine, Barry Burton, Albert Wesker, and the rest of the first game's characters as we see them thrust into the battle for their lives against a horde of zombies, mutated dgos, hunters, and plenty more grisly creatures while trying to escape the infamous secluded mansion.  Perry's storytelling adds nearly the same degree of suspense that the game featured. and her character development of the characters actually makes the reader care about what happens to them; something the game didn't do.  All in all, if you've never read any of Perry's Resident Evil books but are a fan of the game series, then I strongly suggest picking this, and the following books, up.	2003-07-23
US	45838740	R1X609YGDH4XY9	0785101802	968883359	X-Men: Dawn of the Age of Apocalypse (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The beginning of the Age of Apocalypse	Beginning with Cable #20, this TPB is the beginning of the Age of Apocalypse storyline which ran the X-books for four months.  After that story is the X-Men Alpha one shot which gives us the first glance of this alternate timeline in which Charles Xavier never lived long enough to form the X-Men; thus there was no one to stop Apocalypse from taking over North America.  We are introduced to Magneto's group of X-Men: his wife Rogue, his son Quicksilver, Nightcrawler, Iceman, Morph, Blink, Storm, Sabretooth, and Wild Child.  We are also introduced to characters who would continue to appear in the various X-books including the deranged genius Dark Beast and Apocalypse's &quot;son&quot; Holocaust.  Also seen are the villianous versions of Cyclops and his insane brother Havok; plus the theif for hire and ex X-Man Gambit, plus the couple of Logan and Jean Grey.  Dawn of the Age of Apocalypse is good on it's own, but to fully appreciate it you need to read all the other AoA storylines which had a four issue run while the original titles were put on hold.  They are (in order of which are the better):<br />The Astonishing X-Men (Uncanny X-Men)<br />Generation Next  (Generation X)<br />X-Man  (Cable)<br />The Amazing X-Men (X-Men)<br />Weapon X (Wolverine)<br />Factor X  (X-Factor)<br />X-Calibre (Excalibur)<br />Gambit &amp; The X-Ternals (X-Force)	2003-07-11
US	45838740	R12H0EDDLN8UTZ	0061002828	239033838	The Hellbound Heart	Books	5	59	64	N	N	One of the best pieces of horror I've read in years	Clive Barker crafted one of the best pieces of modern horror to come along in quite some time with this shocker novella.  The Hellbound Heart tells the tale of the human heart and all of it's pain and ecstasy contained within.  When Frank solves the puzzle of the Lemarchand box, he discovers the vastness, and the cost, of pleasure and pain.  Upon his encounter with otherworldly creatures called the Cenobites, Frank is left as quite a mess to say the least, and when his ex-lover Julia and her husband Rory move in to Frank's old home, that's when we see Barker at his best.  Despite the lack of character development and the novel itself is way too short; The Hellbound Heart is some of the most compelling horror stories I have ever read, and it helped cement Barker as one of the genre's true masters.  In 1987 Barker would take this story to the big screen (and would also serve as screen writer and director) re-naming it Hellraiser; which would go down as one of the best horror films in the past few decades.  All in all, if your into horror literature but have never entered the world of Clive Barker, this is one of the best places to start.	2003-06-20
US	45838740	R2CTKH3CF6TGGZ	0785101799	77809142	X-Men: Legionquest (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition) (Prelude)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The prelude to the Age of Apocalypse	Collecting Uncanny X-Men #320 and #321 and X-Men #40 and #41, this TPB serves as a plot progressing set up of the Age of Apocalypse storyline.  Professor Xavier's son Legion travels back in time to kill a young Erik Lensherr (Magneto) in hopes of making his father's dream of peace come true.  Not far behind him are Bishop, Iceman, Psylocke, and Storm who are trying to stop him.  In the meantime, a displacement with the M'Krann Crystal is slowly causing the world in the present to come to an end.  Here we see Cyclops, Jean Grey, Professor X, Gambit, Beast, Rogue, Archangel, and Cable await the end of the world.  The ending is tragic in scope, and with Xavier dead in the past there was never a team of X-Men to stop Apocalypse from taking over North America and most of the world.  This is the beginning of the Age of Apocalypse storyline which would have a four month run on all the X-titles; showing us Magneto forming his X-Men to stop Apocalypse, along with a time displaced and older Bishop trying to restore the right reality.  The AoA storyline was bashed by many a reader, but I for one loved it, and X-Men: Legionquest collects the entire prelude to the cataclysmic event.  If your going to start reading the AoA storyline, this is the best place to start.	2003-06-11
US	45838740	RNKVMCH1F33ZG	0785101810	835027344	X-Men: Twilight of the Age of Apocalypse (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The conclusion to the Age of Apocalypse	Twilight of the Age of Apocalypse collects the two issue X-Universe mini-series and the one shot swan song of the AoA storyline X-Men: Omega.  X-Men: Omega is the main highlight here, as we see Magneto and his remaining X-Men taking one last shot at Apocalypse and crew as the world around them begins to end.  While the story is action packed from panel to panel, it does leave something to be desired; especially to those readers (like myself) who thoroughly enjoyed the AoA storyline which went down as one of the most underrated storylines in X-Men history.  The battle with Magneto and young Nate Grey (X-Man) taking on Apocalypse and Holocaust is worth the price of admission alone.  The X-Universe storyline isn't anything special really, it just serves it's purpose by showing the readers what happened to other Marvel Comics icons in this alternate timeline.  We see Sue Storm and Ben Grimm having never been members of the Fantastic Four.  We see Donald Blake having never found the mystic hammer Mjolnir which turned him into the Mighty Thor.  We see Tony Stark without ever donning the suit to turn him into Iron Man, and we also see Gwen Stacy who never met her doom as Peter Parker's first true love.  That storyline is interesting, but X-Men: Omega is worth getting this for alone.  All in all, if you liked the AoA storyline as much as I did, then this is an essential volume in your library.	2003-05-30
US	45838740	R3OHLMVXCLQ9GU	1563897156	46430639	Preacher VOL 09: Alamo (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	The awesome finale for one of the best comics of the 90's	For five and a half years it has led up to this.  Jesse Custer's confrontation with God is coming full circle, as is the fates of all the characters who have gone through more character development in that aforementioned span than some comic characters go through in a decade.  All the oddly written characters we have grown to love and hate like Jesse, Tulip, Cassidy, Herr Starr, The Saint of Killers, and Arseface meet their respective fates in big ways; ranging from Starr seeking his revenge on Jesse, to Jesse's showdown with Cassidy, to The Saint of Killers' war on heaven, and everything in between.  By the end of Alamo, long time readers of the series will feel satisfied of most of the outcomes, and even though it is sad to see the Preacher series come to an end, it is good to know that the series didn't re-hash itself every twenty four issues and kept the storyline on one true track during the entire run.  Let it also be noted that Preacher creators; writer Garth Ennis and artist Steve Dillon, stayed on for the entire Preacher run.  That in itself is an accomplishment in the comic industry as they brought readers some of the most unforgettable characters and one of the most engrossing sagas in the modern comic age.  Rumor has it (straight out of Wizard Magazine) that a Preacher re-launch is in the works, but time will tell.  I also strongly suggest Ennis and Dillon's Punisher TPB for Marvel Comics; even if you've never had an interest in that character you should read the re-invention of him by the Preacher duo, it is pure genius.	2003-05-17
US	45838740	R3D9XZCZXGJDA2	1563896176	639556681	Preacher VOL 08: All Hell's A-Coming (Dc Comics Vertigo, Book 8)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Leads up to the incredible finale	This collected volume, which leads up to the incredible finale of the Preacher series, finds Tulip leaving her new life of booze, drugs, and Cassidy to try to get her life back together.  After that (and a rousing backstory on Tulip's childhood and her meeting with Amy), she and Jesse are re-united proving one of Preacher's many themes: love is stronger than death.  The best parts of All Hell's A-Coming is undoubtadly Jesse learning all of Cassidy's dark and dirty past.  This part is pivotal for a few reasons: longtime fans of the series have no doubt grown to love Cass, and now their opinions will be surely changed.  Also, this is the plot progressing set up the final, pivotal events that come in the next and final collected volume; Alamo.  The final story, a backstory on one of Jesse, Tulip, and Amy's criminal misadventures, isn't one of Ennis' better written stories, but think of it as an added bonus.	2003-05-12
US	45838740	R1WMKK1OJ9FQ9F	1563895196	467048679	Preacher, Vol. 7: Salvation	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Seems like salvation	After the climatic events in War in the Sun, Garth Ennis decided to give the Preacher series a much needed shift in gears to keep the story from becoming more bungled.  We catch up with Jesse and his pooch Skeeter in the town of Salvation where he runs in with his childhood friend Billy Bob's (see Until the End of the World) sister Lorie.  He also meets a mysterious older woman named Jodie who he has more in common with than he thinks, and eventually he becomes sherrif of the town.  He also runs into vile businessman Odin Quincannon who gives the term \\"meat lover\\" a new definition, and he also gets to tangle with the KKK.  And, last but certainly not least, Jesse finally finds out what happened to him in the desert, and what happened to his eye.  Ennis' storytelling is at his usual best, but Steve Dillon's usually great art isn't at it's best here, but it's still above average.  All in all, Salvation is a nice diversion from the series' nearly convulted storytelling, and this sets up the pivotal events that would come in the next chapter All Hell's A Comin', and the finale Alamo.	2003-04-21
US	45838740	R360BROM8HWJJ9	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Better than I had expected it to be	Before the disappointing movie came out, I read Hannibal over the course of three days and for the most part was satisfied.  Say whatever you will about the story, but none can deny Harris' compelling and suspenseful storytelling, it is literally a page turner.  Here we get to see Lecter living in the free world according to his tastes.  We also get a peek inside Lecter's mind to see the genius behind the cannibal, but there are a number of things which stop Hannibal from being as great a story as Red Dragon and Silence of the Lambs.  The characterization of Clarice makes her seem more weak willed and not so much the strong, compotent heroine that we knew so well in Silence.  Also the climax, as another reviewer had stated, seems like an outline for a screenplay for a big budget Hollywood action film, but is nonetheless compelling and has its' share of twists.  The ending seems to be everyone's biggest complaint, and I admit I was shocked when I first read it, but come on now, can you think of any other better way that it could have ended?  All in all, I didn't like Hannibal as much as Harris' other great novels in the Lecter trilogy, but Hannibal is compelling and suspenseful, and is light years beyond the supremely disappointing big budget film.	2003-03-20
US	45838740	R1D2VR9X4R1R62	1563894904	611507173	Preacher VOL 06: War in the Sun (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant, possibly the best in the series	Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon have created another masterpiece with this sixth collected installment of the Preacher series.  The beginning is the one shot back story called \\"One Man's War\\" and delves into the past of Herr Star as we learn his secrets and his unyielding motivation to get the job done.  This explains quite a bit about Herr Star's intentions and you can almost sympathize with him.  From that point on we catch up with Jesse, Tulip, and Cassidey as they wind up in the desert along with Herr Star and the entire army thrown into the mix, and the Saint of Killers not far behind.  This is undoubtadly the most action packed of the series and contains all of the blood curdling violence and very dark humor that the series is famous for.  Ennis' storytelling is great as always, although some of Dillon's art seems to get a bit scratchy towards the end of the book, War in the Sun is still a great read.  All in all, this is possibly the best in the Preacher series, and next to Until the End of the World, is my favorite of the series.	2003-03-13
US	45838740	RKY62PA3D0JQM	0958578346	325728610	From Hell	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Another masterpiece from the great Alan Moore	While Alan Moore will go down in comics history for Watchmen, his painstakingly researched synopsis of Jack the Ripper and the Whitechapel Murders is almost as equally great.  Moore teamed up with artist Eddie Campbell to show us the horrific dread and gloomy atmosphere of a city in terror of a killer.  Thanks to Moore's great writing, the reader is drawn into this massive story from the first page on as we are introduced to the killer himself (his identity based on Moore's own research along with specualted opinions and hearsay) and Campbell's scrathy yet beautiful black & white art sustains the atmosphere of From Hell perfectly.  Eventually it would be made into a film starring Johnny Depp and Heather Graham, and even though I liked that as well, this graphic novel beats it on every level (if you liked the film I strongly suggest checking this out, and I guarantee you'll love this).  The characterizations, dialogue, art, and riveting storyline keep the reader interested up until the final panel, and whether you like comics or not this is an essential read no matter who you are.	2003-03-10
US	45838740	R32YVII5AN5SKZ	0553569309	419519919	The Death and Life of Superman	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A must read, Superman fan or not	When DC Comics killed off Superman and and then resurrected him, the three storylines (Death of Superman, Funeral For a Friend, Reign of the Supermen) went from good, to excellent, to lackluster (in that respective order).  Long time comic scribe Roger Stern turns all of that into one exceptional story that is a nonstop thrillride from beginning to end.  It starts out when a mysterious hulk of a monster named Doomsday begins to destroy and kill anything and everything in his path, and naturally it's up to Supes to stop him.  After he takes out the Justice League, Doomsday makes his way to Metropolis where he and Superman fight until both are dead.  The next chapter picks up at a mass funeral for Superman where Stern's writing talent truly shines (the emotionative punch when Lois Lane sees and hears a woman claiming to have been Superman's secret wife packs a wallop), and culminates in the disappearance of Superman's body.  The third story arc begins when four mysterious beings appear all claiming to be Superman (The Cyborg, The Eradicator, Steel, and Superboy), and when the true adversary is revealed, it is a nonstop fight to the finish culminating in the return of the true hero.  As I said before this is a great read and it packs more emotion and action than any of the comics the story is taken from (it even flows so well that it could be used a screen play; hmmm...), and is a must own for comics fans or Superman fans alike.	2003-02-19
US	45838740	R3P7NK0G7TATOS	0553561200	547976553	Earth Hive (Aliens, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly good	Earth Hive, the beginning of Steve Perry's Aliens saga, is a surprisingly action packed read that carries the themes from the first two Alien films very nicely.  The story centers around two survivors from a Xenomorph onslaught, Wilks and Billie (as one reviewer previously stated, this was originally based on further adventures of Hicks and Newt from Aliens, but when both characters were killed off in the Alien 3 film, Perry was forced to make some changes) and both are re-united as The Company once again attempts to bring the life form to Earth to use as a weapon.  The action is nicely paced, but sometimes Perry's storytelling becomes uneven and blurred as if he is trying to keep a certain pace with himself.  Other than that Earth Hive is a great read for fans of the Alien films and is full of shocks and plenty of surprises (including a twist climatic ending) that would lead into the next books in the series; Nightmare Asylum and Female War.	2003-02-17
US	45838740	R3NPNU4S36MJ07	1563893274	360924016	Preacher, Vol. 3: Proud Americans	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"HUMPERDUMPERDOO!!!"	Proud Americans is the third volume in the collected Preacher series, and continues the excellent storytelling and characterizations found in Gone to Texas and Until the End of the World.  This volume contains three storylines, the first of which a story of Jesse's father in Vietnam which reveals how he got his cherished Zippo lighter and his encounter with his hero John Wayne.  This story is a nice little extra side story to the Preacher saga as we see how honorable of a man Jesse's father was.  The second story continues where Until the End of the World left off, with the group known as the Grail torturing the captured hard drinking Irish vampire Cassidy and Jesse's attempt to rescue him.  This story keeps you on the edge of your seat thanks to Ennis' excellent (as usual) storytelling and insanely dark humor.  The third story is Cassidy telling Jesse about how he became a vampire and his coming to America.  This is a great side story as well and we get to see how Cassidy's character developed from naive Irish freedom fighter to the blood sucking immortal we all know and love.  All in all, Proud Americans is an excellent addition to the Preacher saga, but before you pick this up check out Gone to Texas and Until the End of the World.	2003-02-14
US	45838740	R2RF0CU22AYOFH	0922915660	663793688	Satan Speaks!	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Nice little collection of essays from good 'ol Uncle Anton	Published after his death, Anton LaVey's Satan Speaks does not focus on one immediate subject; but is instead a collection of essays from the founder of the Church of Satan on late 20th century culture.  Such passages contain LaVey's rants on child abuse, connections between a Satanist and a Jew, abortion, and my favorite, the laugh out loud \\"Don't Bathe\\" which features LaVey's rampant celebration of body odor.  Although it seems that most of Satan Speaks is more self indulged than any of LaVey's other works, it is still a great read nonetheless, and the bits of dark humor throughout will guarantee a chuckle or two out of any Satanist or fan of LaVey's work.	2003-02-14
US	45838740	R12VGWLIPR4D19	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Calling this a classic is more than an understatement	For anyone to ever argue the point that comics should be seen as actual literature should use this as their only example.  Alan Moore crafted an unflinching, highly intelligent, and unbelieveably haunting story with this original 12 issue maxi-series (originally published in 1985) that is considered Moore's best.  In a world where super heroes are no longer fantasy, we see a society torn apart by cold war paranoia, and an uncertain future.  When a retired super hero is mysteriously murdered, an almost fascist hero named Rorshach is trying to find the killer, which leads him to convincing his old partner Nite Owl to come out of retirement to help.  What is uncovered is more than either could have ever imagined, and what develops is nearly beyond comprehension.  Moore's explosive, compelling storytelling and Dave Gibbons' great artwork make Watchmen an unforgettable read whether your a fan of comics or not.  Everything about this collected story is exquisite; from the interludes to hero interviews and autobiography excerpts to the complex yet riveting story all make Watchmen truly one of a kind.  All in all, this is an essential book to be in your comic collection, or even in your book collection as well, it is just that ... good.	2003-02-05
US	45838740	REXLNPPXMMR3S	1563894289	871196333	Preacher VOL 05: Dixie Fried	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;Justice, Vengeance, Arseface...&quot;	This fifth book in the Preacher series begins with a backstory on everyone's favorite hard drinking Irish vampire Cassidy and his meeting with another vampire in New Orleans.  That story is great on its' own and has its' moments of the dark humor and insane violence that Preacher readers know and love, and is a good read on its own.  The next story continues where Proud Americans left off as we see Jesse and Cassidy re-uniting with Tulip in New Orleans.  Cassidy plays a huge role as he drunkedly confesses his love for Tulip while he is being stalked by a group of Goth vampire wanna-be's that he met in his backstory.  Arseface finally sees his chance to take his revenge on Jesse and co., and believe it or not that ends with some very humerous results.  Dixie Fried relies more on story and dialogue in the beginning as opposed to the usual action, and while it isn't the best book in the Preacher series, it is still worth a read.	2003-02-04
US	45838740	R12Q6AOU014LA4	156389405X	69617634	Preacher VOL 04: Ancient History	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Better than what I expected	When I first laid eyes on Ancient History, the fourth book in the Preacher series, I was leary about it considering it does not follow the ongoing storyline of Jesse, Tulip, and Cassidy.  But like the old saying goes, I shouldn't have judged this book by its' cover.  Garth Ennis' fantasticly written stories on the pasts of supporting characters (including the Saint of Killers, Arseface, and Jody and T.C.) combined with great art by Steve Pugh, Carlos Ezquerra, and Richard Case (no Steve Dillon for this volume) make Ancient History one of the best in the series.  The first story (and arguably the best) deals with the past of the Saint of Killers, a man whose burning, never ending hatred condemned him straight to Hell where he shot the devil and became the new Angel of Death.  This story is extremely violent and the scenes of Satan and the Angel of Death playing cards in hell is laugh out loud hilarious.  The second story explains just why Arseface shot himself in the face and deals with his abusive past.  The final story, which is extremely funny, is a semi-spoof of older action films starring Jody and T.C. being the \\"good 'ol boys\\" that they were.  All in all, this is an essential read for Preacher fans.	2003-02-01
US	45838740	R2H9IQH6N3X5HB	1563893126	969819683	Preacher VOL 02: Until the End of the World	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Annihilates "Gone to Texas"	I thought I had seen it all in comics when my eyes first got a taste of Garth Ennis and Steve Dillon's world of Preacher in the first TPB Gone to Texas, but the minute I began to read Until the End of the World, I realized I was sadly mistaken.  Here we find out about Jesse's past in the first story \\"All in the Family\\", where we see a young Jesse grow up with the people who murdered his father in front of him, and we get to see his bloody confrontation with them as his past catches up with him.  This story has a strong sense of complete black comedy while keeping the reader entertained with an insane amount of violence and insanity displayed as only Ennis and Dillon can bring.  The second story, \\"Hunters\\", features Jesse and Tulip re-uniting with Jesse's hard drinking Irish vampire buddy Cassidy while Jesse continues his search for God as some very bad people search for him.  Along the way he comes across an extremely depraved ... deviant who calls himself Jesus DeSade.  This story has a sense of tragedy to it while still keeping the insanely dark humor and blood curdling violence that readers of the Preacher series are used to.  All in all, Until the End of the World is my favorite Preacher book of the entire series, and is one of the best comics I have come across in a very long time.	2003-01-30
US	45838740	R52BEWLB79P3F	1563892618	524121401	Preacher VOL 01: Gone to Texas (Vertigo)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A rollercoaster ride of a comic	Writer Garth Ennis and artist Steve Dillon bring to life one of the most twisted, offensive, action packed, and unrelenting comic sagas that you'll ever read.  This first chapter in the Preacher saga introduces us to Jesse Custer, a former preacher who teams up with his gun toting ex-girlfriend Tulip, and a hard drinking Irish vampire punk named Cassidy.  Jesse is on a mission to find God, but not for the usual philosophical reasons one might expect.  The action is graphic and very violent, and Ennis' dialogue can be chilling in one scene, and laugh out loud absurdly hilarious in the next (Cassidy's antics will have you busting a gut laughing).  All in all, those looking for a different kind of comic and have unique tastes should definitely give the entire Preacher series a look, and they should start here.	2003-01-27
US	45838740	R25CT64Y3HE1V4	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A mixed bag depending on the reader	Way back in 1985, the editors at DC Comics realized they had a bit of a problem.  Since the the beginning of DC Comics, there had been a huge number of alternate multi-verses containing differing Earth's (Earth 1, Earth 2, Earth X, etc.) and different heroes and villians as well.  Enter Marv Wolfman, the writer who would create the villian The Monitor who would destroy the countless universes and change the face of the DC universe for years.  This entire huge 12 issue series is collected here and is an epic in every sense of the word.  Here we witness the deaths of the original Supergirl and the Barry Allen Flash, along with countless other lesser known older age DC characters.  George Perez' art is nicely done, but Wolfman's dialogue among the heroes and the storyline in general is just so cliche for a comic story (then again, I shouldn't expect anything different considering this is a major mainstream comic series) that some readers may be turned off.  Not to mention the inclusion of many characters from the 1940's, 50's, and 60's are here as well, and younger comic fans will care less about what happens to them.  All in all, Crisis on Infinite Earths is an epic collection that is essential for any DC fanboy, but that's just about it.	2003-01-27
US	45838740	R1FP6HY9NVTFE8	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A near perfect masterpiece	Writer Mark Waid (Flash, Impulse), and superb artist Alex Ross (Marvels, Earth X) joined forces for this DC Comics Elseworlds extravaganza.  In a dark future (then again what else is there in the DC universe?), Superman is in self imposed exile, Wonder Woman is a disgrace to her people, and Batman sits in his cave wearing an exoskeleton just to be able to walk.  Years before a new race of super heroes had risen; a more savage and destructive force who cared not much for truth and justice and were over the borderline that seperates right and wrong.  Now, the heroes of old (Superman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern, Flash, Hawkman, and many others) return to try to make a difference again, to try to be heroes.  All this is seen from the perspective of a man named Norman McCay, a holy man who is on the verge of losing his faith.  Waid's storytelling is compelling, and Ross' art is (naturally) superb, but now and then the action can get befuddled and the reader won't always be sure what is going on.  Not to mention that Kingdom Come's underlying theme based on the existence of God is something we've all heard and seen before and really don't need to read about again, but all that aside, Kingdom Come is a fantastic graphic novel.  I for one love the portrayal of Bruce Wayne, now a disenchanted and cynical (well, now more than before) shell of the man he used to be, and his dialogue is great as well.  All in all, fans of any DC Comic or even Alex Ross' unique art should definitely pick up Kingdom Come.	2003-01-12
US	45838740	RUXI0QDBTFHE5	0571214886	806262211	The Making of Memento	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Interesting and intriguing look into the making of a classic	James Mottram's &quot;Making of Memento&quot; is an interesting and intriguing look into the making of the modern day classic Memento.  Offered up are excerpts from conversations with director/screen writer Christopher Nolan and actors Guy Pearce, Carrie Anne-Moss, and Joe Pantoliano, while offering a few different interpertations on the film itself.  Mottram's style is crisp and clear and he never seems to go too far from his source material while offering up some interesting little known facts (the fact that Brad Pitt strongly considered and wanted to do the role of Lenny came as a shock and I have more respect for him now than I ever did before) that keep the reader interested for most of the time.  Also included is the original short story by Jonathan Nolan (brother to Christopher) that inspired the film.  All in all, consider this an essential companion piece if your a fan of the film or are trying to tie up some loose ends.	2003-01-03
US	45838740	R118CH19IDJ7IB	0785101276	603652937	Astonishing X-Men (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best AoA storyline, bar none	When the Legion Quest storyline ended, an alternate universe was created due to the fact that Legion went back in time to kill Magneto but accidently killed Charles Xavier. Since Xavier died, there was no X-Men to stop Apocalypse from taking over America and most of the world. This alternate reality, The Age of Apocalypse, put all the regular X-books on hold for four issues and replaced them with they're AoA versions.  Astonishing X-Men (Uncanny X-Men) introduces us to Magneto's team of X-Men (the one shot X-Men: Alpha introduced most of the main characters) which consists of his wife Rogue, Quicksilver, Sabretooth, Wild Child, Blink, Iceman, Banshee, Nightcrawler, Sunfire, Morph, and Storm.  The beginning of this TPB is Magneto gathering up his troops and preparing them for the upcoming showdown with Apocalypse and his forces, while with the assistance of Bishop (the only remaining part of the regular X-universe) tries to make reality right.  Later on, Rogue, Sabretooth, Wild Child, Blink, Sunfire, and Morph try to stop Holocaust (Apocalypse's son) from slaughtering a number of humans in whats left of Indianapolis.  The storytelling is superb, and seeing Sabretooth as a hero may sound a bit weird, it surprisingly works and you'll come to love him more as a hero than as the murderous villian he is the regular X-universe.  We also get to see some great interaction between Magneto and Bishop over what they believe must be done.  All in all, of all the Age of Apocalypse storylines, Astonishing X-Men is undoubtadly the best.	2002-12-21
US	45838740	RX38RIGHTVDJE	0785101314	940919419	Weapon X (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition) (Wolverine)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A happy Logan, in a world gone to hell	When the Legion Quest storyline ended, an alternate universe was created due to the fact that Legion went back in time to kill Magneto but accidently killed Charles Xavier. Since Xavier died, there was no X-Men to stop Apocalypse from taking over America and most of the world. This alternate reality, The Age of Apocalypse, put all the regular X-books on hold for four issues and replaced them with they're AoA versions.  Weapon X (Wolverine) tells the storyline revolving around Logan (he is not called Wolverine in this alternate reality) who in all his long lifetime in the regular X-universe was never able to find happiness.  In the Age of Apocalypse, Logan is finally with the woman he loves: Jean Grey, and he couldn't be happier (then again he is missing a hand).  The intense love and emotion between the two should be seen to be believed.  Logan has an early run in with Havok, and we learn the past between Logan and Cyclops (in this reality Cyclops and Havok are servants to Apocalypse) and how Jean Grey ties in (to find out a bit more read the X-Man TPB).  Eventually Jean must leave Logan to find out some info, and Logan has a few battles with Pierce and other cyborgs.  Carol Danvers and Gateway make some appearances, but sometimes the action lags and the story can become a bit incoherent.  The art is great and Logan's narration is as well, and is sometimes darkly hilarious.  All in all, this is a good chapter in the Age of Apocalypse saga.	2002-12-21
US	45838740	RRNIXJO7QTT6E	0785101306	528767181	Generation Next (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best AoA storylines	When the Legion Quest storyline ended, an alternate universe was created due to the fact that Legion went back in time to kill Magneto but accidently killed Charles Xavier.  Since Xavier died, there was no X-Men to stop Apocalypse from taking over America and most of the world.  This alternate reality, The Age of Apocalypse, put all the regular X-books on hold for four issues and replaced them with they're AoA versions.  Generation Next (Generation X) is a storyline revolving around Magneto (the X-Men's founder and leader in this alternate universe) sending husband and wife Colossus and Shadowcat on a mission to save Colossus' long thought dead sister from a human slave colony.  Accompanying them is the AoA version of Generation X; consisting of Chamber, Husk, Skin, Mondo, and Vincent.  The gritty art brings the emotional impact of the story out even more than it should, and the emotionally charged tragic ending really makes this TPB of Generation Next excell more than it should.  All in all, a great read for older fans of the X-Men or Generation X comics.	2002-12-12
US	45838740	R3W1VVUGC0MCDF	0671784986	550883285	Code: Veronica  (Resident Evil #6)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the best books in the series	S.D. Perry's novelizations of the Resident Evil video game series have been excellent mostly, and this volume in the series is no exception.  Code: Veronica, the sixth book in the series, is based from the video game of the same name which you can find on the Dreamcast and PS2 game systems.  Perry adds so much more to the story and characters than the writers of the game's storyline ever could; the suspense and shocks make it a page turner and you genuinely care for the heroes.  The story starts as Claire Redfield (one of the survivors of City of the Dead, the third book in the series and the second game in the video game series) is captured by Umbrella and sent to an uncharted island where she is kept prisoner until, as luck in the Resident Evil universe would have it, all hell breaks loose and zombies and monsters are abound.  Eventually she meets up with another prisoner, Steve Burnside, and the two become allies trying to escape, all the while Claire's brother Chris is on her trail to save her.  The relationship between Claire and Steve is compelling, as is the sense of urgency that is at an all time high here.  While I think some parts of the ending get more and more unbelieveable, Perry's novelization remains faithful to the game it is based on, and if you've never played the game you'll want to after reading this.  All in all, Code: Veronica is one of the best in the series (books and games respectively), and if your a fan of anything Resident Evil then you have no reason not to read this.	2002-11-26
US	45838740	RFLIUW5ADI5A	0785107169	337731281	Spider-Man: The Death of Gwen Stacy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the most impacting and emotional comic stories ever	Since Spider-Man was such a gigantic hit at the box office, it seems everyone these days is a Spider-Man fan.  Naturally anyone who never before knew anything about the Spider-Man universe or backstory is convinced Mary Jane was Spidey's number one love.  Well, those same people should definitely consider checking this TPB out.  Collecting Amazing Spider-Man #96-98 and #121-122 from the mid 1960's.  Gwen Stacy was Peter Parker's first true love and was a staple of the series for years until this shocking (at the time) story was released.  We begin with seeing Harry Osborn succombing to a drug addiction he can no longer control.  This segment of the story was groundbreaking at the time considering Stan Lee wrote it without the approval of the Comic Code.  Later on we see Harry's father Norman overcome with rage over his son's addictions, and he blames Harry's friends and wants revenge.  Thus, the Green Goblin returns to seek his revenge on Peter Parker by taking what Pete holds most dear: Gwen.  The story itself is very emotional and in its' day made a huge impact, even though the drug addiction theme may seem hokey today.  The art by Gil Kane and John Romita, Sr. is among they're best (and they were and are still industry icons), and all in all this is one of the best stories in the Spider-Man universe and comics in general.	2002-10-09
US	45838740	R3JGW4KKFT9M6F	0380015390	52596332	The Satanic Bible	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Just think about it for a second...	Many questioned the legitimacy of the late Anton LaVey as to whether he was full of you know what or if he actually believed what he preached.  I for one believe that this man believed every word he said, which is why I chose to write a report on The Satanic Bible while I was in high school.  His philosophy is what enchanted me, the entire \\"be your own God\\" passage had me clinging to every word, which helped me draw the conclusion that this was an inteligent man who had grown tired of the self conscious, oppressive belief structure we call Christianity.  I will tell you now that when I gave my report on The Satanic Bible I could not believe the gasps and dirty looks in the room.  I believe the reason so many people condemn this book, as well as LaVey's other works and anything else dealing with Satanism, is because they have been brainwashed all of they're lives to believe that anything outside the norm of Christianity is evil and taboo.  That my friends is bigotry, as opposed to what another reviewer referred to Lavey as; the last time I checked the point of Christianity was to tolerate right?  Can we say hypocritical?  Anyway, I found The Satanic Bible to be an enlightening work, and I recommend it to anyone who is looking for something different.  And no, I'm not a Satanist, but I will be surprised if this review is posted.	2002-08-23
US	45838740	R2DJ4NBCYO4RZW	0785100652	249074560	X-men: Fatal Attractions	Books	5	4	6	N	N	One of the most dramatic stories in X-Men history	I can still remember the shock and amazement on my face nearly ten years ago when this storyline appeared in the X-titles.  Here we see the return of Magneto, the greatest enemy of the X-Men, ready to bring his plan of mutant domination to a head.  Dramatic moments are aplenty here, most of which would effect all the X-titles until the end of the decade.  The scenes of seeing Magneto using his power to rip the adamantium out of Wolverine's body still gives me chills, not to mention the unforgettable final battle between Professor X and Magneto, the culmination of which would later go on in the \\"Onslaught\\" storyline that would cross through nearly every Marvel Comics title and cause the death of Avengers and Fantastic Four.  All in all, \\"Fatal Attractions\\" may not be the best X-Men TPB to get, but it is very dramatic and completely unforgetable.	2002-08-19
US	45838740	R36MKQ09VPATMY	1563893428	277739198	Batman: The Dark Knight Returns	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Possibly the greatest comics story ever told	If your one of those people who think comic books are only kid stuff than you should really pick this up.  Frank Miller's &quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot; may well be the greatest storyline in the history of comics, and those who have never read it will see Batman in a very new light.  The storyline picks up 10 years after Batman's retirement.  Bruce Wayne, now in his fifties, watches the world around him continue to be filled with social decay.  Eventually we see how obsessive he was with crime fighting begin to come back to him, and soon enough he dons the cape and cowl and Batman makes his return.  But this isn't the Batman that most people will expect to see, we see him battle a gang called The Mutants with no holding back, and he deals with the return of a now &quot;rehabilitated&quot; Two-Face, and the return of his all time arch nemesis The Joker.  The graphic novel is shockingly violent and disturbing at some points, Miller's gritty art really gives the book life (although I will admit I was turned off by the artwork the first time I read it, but I realized it is like this for a reason and it grew on me), and the climatic final battle between Batman and Superman has to be seen to be believed.  Do yourself a favor, if you even remotely like Batman and have never read this, than buy it as soon as you can, &quot;The Dark Knight Returns&quot; is a stunning landmark in the Batman saga, as well as it is a landmark in comics history.	2002-08-11
US	45838740	R7SQZY10VLFMD	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	4	34	41	N	N	The fall of a hero	I was never really into Superman when I was a kid, or any DC Comics character other than Batman and Green Lantern for that matter (I was always a Marvel faithful), but when I heard that Superman was going to be killed, it was a big event in comics history.  Here we see a monster named Doomsday, who escapes from his confines and begins to wreak havok across the country leading up to Metropolis.  He kills and destroys everything in sight, and he totally decimates the Justice League, leaving only one thing between him and Metropolis: Superman.  In quite possibly one of the best ongoing battles in comic history, they both duke it out until neither is left standing, I mean we get to see Superman bloodied, battered, beaten, and eventually dead.  The heart of this collected edition is we get to see how far Superman goes to protect the innocent and preserve life, we all hear about that being a hero's vow in comics, but to see it actually illustrated is something different.  All in all, if you want to read a good comic story that would lead up to one of the greatest returns in the history of comics, then this should be right up your alley.	2002-06-23
US	45838740	RQ62ECNVBL73F	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The fall of a hero	I was never really into Superman when I was a kid, or any DC Comics character other than Batman and Green Lantern for that matter (I was always a Marvel faithful), but when I heard that Superman was going to be killed, it was a big event in comics history.  Here we see a monster named Doomsday, who escapes from his confines and begins to wreak havok across the country leading up to Metropolis.  He kills and destroys everything in sight, and he totally decimates the Justice League, leaving only one thing between him and Metropolis: Superman.  In quite possibly one of the best ongoing battles in comic history, they both duke it out until neither is left standing, I mean we get to see Superman bloodied, battered, beaten, and eventually dead.  The heart of this collected edition is we get to see how far Superman goes to protect the innocent and preserve life, we all hear about that being a hero's vow in comics, but to see it actually illustrated is something different.  All in all, if you want to read a good comic story that would lead up to one of the greatest returns in the history of comics, then this should be right up your alley.	2002-06-23
US	45838740	RRCAT4F5QADLC	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The fall of a hero	I was never really into Superman when I was a kid, or any DC Comics character other than Batman and Green Lantern for that matter (I was always a Marvel faithful), but when I heard that Superman was going to be killed, it was a big event in comics history.  Here we see a monster named Doomsday, who escapes from his confines and begins to wreak havok across the country leading up to Metropolis.  He kills and destroys everything in sight, and he totally decimates the Justice League, leaving only one thing between him and Metropolis: Superman.  In quite possibly one of the best ongoing battles in comic history, they both duke it out until neither is left standing, I mean we get to see Superman bloodied, battered, beaten, and eventually dead.  The heart of this collected edition is we get to see how far Superman goes to protect the innocent and preserve life, we all hear about that being a hero's vow in comics, but to see it actually illustrated is something different.  All in all, if you want to read a good comic story that would lead up to one of the greatest returns in the history of comics, then this should be right up your alley.	2002-06-23
US	45838740	R10TBDMIL03DB6	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Unbelieveably haunting	One of the last books my class was to read in English in our senior year, William Golding's \\"Lord of the Flies\\" is considered by many a classic, but it as more of a haunting portrait of the loss of innocence and the degredation of humanity.  The story revolves around the Cold War, a nuclear war has begun and the children of England have been evacuated in airplanes.  One of the planes crashes on a tropical island.  At first, the children are led by Ralph, who calls assemblies by blowing on his conch, his fat but wise friend Piggy, and the seemingly flat out weird but helpful Simon.  But when Jack, a hunter of the wild pigs on the island, challenges Ralph's rule, chaos ensues, and this tropical paradise becomes a living hell for Ralph, Piggy, and Simon.  Golding's sense of symbolism makes the book work, from the very beginning we know Ralph is the good guy and Jack is the unprecidented evil in the making.  Even the title of the book is an example of symbolism; when Simon encounters \\"The Lord of the Flies\\", we see this (the title is the definition of Beelzebub, which is Hebrew for Satan), but its up in the air whether Simon had a sixth sense or if he was just crazy when he encountered \\"The Lord of the Flies\\" (Simon as well symbolizes Christ, he helped the younger children, gathered food, and built the huts along with the fact he was tempted to join Jack's crew).  Undoubtadly one of the best books I have ever had to read for school, William Golding's \\"Lord of the Flies\\" is an essential read for everyone.	2002-04-26
US	45838740	R2BYQR1SEG8QY6	1575601427	571311470	The Art of James Hetfield (The Art of Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great for beginners and well rounded players alike	Here in \\"The Art of James Hetfield\\", you'll find James' rhythm guitar riffs for such Metallica classics like \\"Hit the Lights\\", \\"For Whom the Bell Tolls\\", \\"Fade to Black\\", \\"Creeping Death\\", \\"Battery\\", \\"Master of Puppets\\", \\"One\\", \\"Enter Sandman\\", \\"The Unforgiven\\", \\"Until It Sleeps\\", and \\"Fuel\\" among others, plus the solos for Puppets, \\"To Live is to Die\\", \\"Nothing Else Matters\\", \\"The House Jack Built\\", \\"Thorn Within\\", and \\"Carpe Diem Baby\\", and it even has the entire transcription of \\"Sad but True\\".  Everything is explained and transcripted beautifully (it even has tabs), making this a good book for novice guitarists looking for a challenge, and a good companion for seasoned guitar players looking to play some classic Metallica tunes.	2002-03-16
US	45838740	R20NVX4N2S1DVG	0060987464	386232840	The Long Hard Road Out of Hell	Books	5	0	1	N	N	You'll see Manson in a new light	Marilyn Manson has always been an outspoken man, but in his autobiography, it goes to a new level.  &quot;The Long Hard Road Out of Hell&quot; is brutally honest and extremely compelling, and Manson himself paints a picture of himself as an underneath it all too human figure that his music just covers up.  The saying Sex, Drugs, and Rock 'N Roll never took such meaning until this book was written.	2001-10-01
