US	45840663	R1YX8SQBLXKIYO	0310243564	278711560	A Is for Abductive	Books	1	33	38	N	N	Abductive inference is not kidnapping	This book peddles a profound misunderstanding of abductive logic. McLaren either misunderstands the concept or didn't bother to try and understand it in the first place. C.S. Peirce's abduction is not the same as kidnapping. McLaren uses \\"abductive\\" in the sense of metaphorically \\"kidnapping\\" the imagination of one's(no doubt equally deluded) audience, rather than trying to make an analytic case. It's an anti-analytic argument, as McLaren sees it, but abduction itself is a form of analytic reasoning. <br /> <br />Abduction, briefly, is \\"inference to the best explanation.\\" It is part of the American Pragmatist tradition of epistemology; where the pragmatic conception of truth bases the justification/plausibility of a theory on the practical effects it has in the world. Assessing which of competing theories \\"best\\" explain x has to do with evaluating practical outcomes in the world. <br /> <br />This is contrasted with inductive reasoning, which is the notion that one can justifiably reason from observable particulars to develop general theories that are truthful -- and from deductive reasoning, which is the notion that the truthfulness of a theory/statement/etc. can only be based on analytic conclusions that necessarily follow from necessarily true premises. <br /> <br />Abduction, on the other hand, has a different notion of the plausibility -- or justifiability -- of a theory or truth-claim. The problem is determining what consists of the independent notion of \\"bestness\\" that is used to evaluate competing theories or claims. But abduction is NOT anti-logic! (Nor is postmodernism, but that's another story.) <br /> <br />I only go into all of this because McLaren has misleadingly titled his book as if it has something to do with abduction, or abductive reasoning. It clearly does not, and I don't want people to get the wrong idea that they can employ this notion in McLaren's sense and have it be meaningful. How someone can name a book about something they haven't the foggiest notion of is beyond me. I imagine the rest of his work is as equally silly. <br /> <br />Fair warning. <br />	2005-05-27
US	45840663	R1OI6EJXYMJXWS	0198752717	843151896	Nicomachean Ethics	Books	4	58	59	N	N	Excellent translation and overall edition	This Oxford translation of Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics is the work of Sarah Broadie and Christopher Rowe. It's easy to pass over since Amazon doesn't have a cover-photo nor any product description, but it should be one of the first translations you consider getting of the Ethics. <br /> <br />The translation is proceded by an 80-page 'philosophical introduction' by Broadie that is superb. She does a good job explicating the Ethics in a reasonable and general way, given a lot of the dispute over the most basic analytic concepts in the literature (for instance the inclusive-dominant debate over eudaimonia). The introduction alone will make it essential for anyone trying to write on the Ethics while giving an overall view of scholarship out there.  <br /> <br />The translation itself is very readable, with large print and the proper citations in the column.  <br /> <br />Watch out for editions that don't include those, they are usually useless. For instance, Barnes & Noble bought the rights to an edition of the Ethics (one not available on Amazon for obvious reasons) and produced it in a paperback form. It doesn't have the numeric sections accompanying the text, though, and the translation itself is simply a reprint of a fifth edition translation from the 1890s (if an author felt he had to do five editions in ten years, simply spitting it out again 100 years later is a travesty). <br /> <br />A lot of work on the Ethics cites the Barnes collection, and I think it is useful to read this translation side-by-side with that one. My biggest objection is in how this Oxford edition translates \\"phronesis\\" and \\"sophia.\\" The distinction between these two types of knowledge are crucial in understanding Aristotle's ethics. \\"Phronesis\\" is usually translated as 'practical wisdom,' and sometimes as 'prudence.' \\"Sophia\\" is usually translated 'knowledge.' In this translation \\"phronesis\\" is translated as 'wisdom' and \\"sophia\\" is translated as 'intellectual accomplishment.' It is veryimportant to keep that in mind when you are reading the text, and if you are interested in Aristotle's discussions of prudential excellence. Anytime 'wisdom' appears in this text, Aristotle is talking specifically about practical wisdom/phronesis, and likewise with 'intellectual accomplishment.' Any apparent vagueness on this note is due to the translation, and frankly I'm surprised they decided to do that. Luckily I read Broadie's introduction, which mentions this on page 46, or else I might have been confused about this later on. Thus, one needs to be very aware that 'wisdom' in this translation is being referred to as a very specific kind of wisdom, namely the ability to reason practically. Not taking this into account will lead to some erroneous interpretations, I believe, and will make some of the discussions in the secondary sources seem confusing and obscure when they don't need to. <br /> <br />Part 3 of the translation is the line-by-line commentary, another commendable quality of this translation that makes it essential. They even do things like chart out the disposition as well as provide useful cross-references. A useful glossary in the back is also helpful, in fact probably essential to deal with any translation confusions like the one I outline above, especially if you are trying to compare translations. There is also a brief topical bibliography of select works as well, and they separate the index into names and subjects. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a great edition. Very well though out, very very useful to the student of Aristotle.	2004-08-23
US	45840663	RGSD77PZGDFYB	0470834633	815447258	Cold Terror: How Canada Nurtures and Exports Terrorism Around the World	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A powerful indictment of complacency	Stewart Bell's book is a vital contribution to the growing awareness that terrorists have penetrated and used Western societies to advance their goals. Complacency and a false understanding of tolerance in Canada has perpetuated, and continues to perpetuate, not only the political leadership's blindness to the problem, but a public discourse that can't comprehend the distinction between Islamist terrorism and Islam, allowing terrorists and their sympathizers to plead victim-hood when held to account.  <br /> <br />I recently read an article dutifully relaying as factual the irresponsible comments of a Toronto human rights lawyer synonymizing Islamist terrorism to Mandela's ANC. This analogy is not only false--the ANC's violence was reluctant, rare, and assidiuously avoided civilian casualties while the entire object of Islamist terrorism is to maximize civilian casualties--but serves to demonize the emasculated Canadian counter-terror agencies and inhibit their ability to protect Canadian society. <br /> <br />The incomprehension of Canada's public, legal, and political circles of the relationship between terrorism and the networks that support them are troubling, and even more troubling after after September 11 made such issues so vitally immediate. The Canadian legal community's lack of conscience over their responsibility to civilians targeted in other countries is especially baffling. Given Canada's cultural past-time of condescending to Americans, it seems that the habit is so ingrained that it is hard to devote attention to anything else. <br /> <br />Bell's book details a range of failures in Canada's establishment towards terrorism, focusing on Sikh terrorism, the Sri Lankan Tamil Tigers, Hezbollah and Hamas, and lastly al-Qaeda. Complacency, appeasement, and denial are the main themes that run through the book, written in a journalist's narrative style. What is most troubling is the lack of awareness, let alone the absence of a sense of responsibility, to victims of terrorism in other countries. <br /> <br />This is not a uniquely Canadian phenomenon, by any means. Successive American administrations failed to treat terrorism seriously, and as anything other than a series of particular, isolated crisis management problems. Western societies in general are, by their very nature, given to infiltration and penetration by terrorist organizations.  <br /> <br />But it is important to come to terms with this history, acknowledge failure, and move on. For Canada, this will require a different cultural attitude than what is now popular. The idea that, as Bell puts it, terrorism is a problem solved by \\"smothering them with niceness\\" can only be termed oblivious. With a Labour Party that treats terrorism as a public relations/media issue, rather than as a fundamental security threat not only to historical allies but to themselves, is frustrating to others. <br /> <br />As more and more terrorists--whether Tamil, Hezbollah, of al-Qaeda--are caught with Canadian passports, linked to support networks in Canada that are perceived in the world as tolerated by Canadian society, Canadian citizens must be prepared to be perceived very differently in the rest of the world. <br /> <br />Bell's book is more a theme with a narrative built around it, rather than a comprehensive scholarly account of this problem, but he makes the case well and in a way that is very accessible to readers. <br />	2004-08-23
US	45840663	RAQVBC0SFI25I	1565848055	884458727	Al Qaeda and What It Means to Be Modern	Books	2	32	46	N	N	A failed hack job	This is a mercifully short book, an essay really, but ought to be much shorter. There are many broad points that I agreed with before reading this book, but Gray's hasty and loose arguments even for what I do agree with are just lousy.     I don't know if this is even worthy of being called a polemic, although it resembles one in its self-serving and highly selective historicism. It mainly seems to be a self-congratulatory rehash of his previous books (which I admit I haven't read) since a good third of his  citations refer to them, wrapping up in a light-weight and curiously  unironic defense of cultural relativism.     That said, I agree with the premise that al-Qaeda owes a direct debt to some enduring philosophical perversions of the Enlightenment. Whether this is a profound or superficial debt I'm not too sure. Whether it is an issue of resemblance, emulation, or some inevitability I haven't decided, but it doesn't appear Gray knows either. In fact, while reading this book I wasn't too clear on just what it is John Gray does know.    However, I do think it is clear that Gray knows very little about al-Qaeda. It also is clear that Gray knows just as little about the Enlightenment and about philosophy in general. \\"Superficial acquaintnance\\" with said topics is almost too generous. He seems to have some familiarity with modern economics, and I think many of his criticisms of a-historical economic theories is on the money. However, I felt he was mimicking Karl Polanyi's THE GREAT TRANSFORMATION, but there was no attribution. Actually, he was probably just regurgitating Stiglitz now that I think of it.    When it comes to al-Qaeda, we can ascertain that Gray picked up Ruthven's A FURY FOR GOD (which I highly recommend) once or twice, but that is it. As for a \\"modern\\" movement, it would at least be reasonable to familiarize oneself with the Islamic doctrines that play a role: Ibn Taymiyya's scholarship and Hanbali's legalism in particular. Why is it these thinkers, fairly obscure through much of Islam's history, suddenly have such a relevance to contemporary Islamist terrorism? There is a unique intersection of these minor schools, contemporary political conditions, and European philosophy that plays such an interesting role in al-Qaeda's philosophy. Beyond aping Ruthven in a brief discussion of Qutb (author of \\"The Neglected Duty\\" and MILESTONES), Gray is obviously unable to comment on such things. It is simplistic to argue al-Qaeda is a modern movement and leave it at that, as it is as equally insufficient to merely call them \\"fundamentalists,\\"  so I don't know what it is Gray thinks he is accomplishing.     Gray seems to see Russian anarchism of the late nineteenth century as the most relevant movement here, but it is unclear if he thinks the relationship to al-Qaeda is direct, analogous, ideological, aesthetic, or what. If he's just drawing a parallel, the force of his argument is weak. If he is drawing a direct philosophical thread between them, it requires a much more sophisticated historicism than Gray seems willing or able to indulge in. While associating an anti-state movement with a non-state group like al-Qaeda may be appealing, the connection is superficial at best, especially given those anarchist's radical individualism. The problem is that Gray doesn't understand Enlightenment and counter-Enlightenment philosophy any better than he does al-Qaeda. Even the Russian nihilism of that period and the continental nihilism of German and French philosophy are incredibly distinctive. Thus Gray's indictment of the Enlightenment as a whole must do better than simply name drop its most prominent philosophers (Hume, Kant, Condorcet, etc.) and expect that to make the case for a totalitarian utopianism that al-Qaeda mimics.      From the footnotes, it seems that Gray relies on general histories and some favorite quotes from contemporary Enlightenment commentators for his views. Apart from maybe having read some Comte, there is little evidence that Gray is directly familiar with the philosophers he discusses.      For instance in a paragraph on the \\"Counter-Enlightenment\\" we get this: \\"Later in the nineteenth century, thinkers such as Fichte and Nietzsche glorified will over reason\\" (p. 25). Where to begin? First of all, Fichte was a contemporary of Kant, and wrote in the late eighteenth century. He was an early and avid  roponent of enlightenment, not the other way around, and his philosophy of reason and will is obviously misunderstood by Gray. Fichte's radical idealism theorized that the will could not be legitimately restrained if the self is rational. The 'I' is absolute because of its rationality. Not only does Gray miss the boat on that (it's his only reference to Fichte), but it is with this Enlightenment philosopher that German nihilism, in its ultimately narcissistic and aesthetic dimensions, began. The relationship to al-Qaeda's aestheticized death worship is much clearer than to Russian nihilism's egalitarian dimensions(let alone to Logical Positivism and analytic philosophy for crying out loud). This is just for starters too (I won't even get into Nietzsche). The whole book is like this. He might as well have titled it A.J. AYER & Al-QAEDA; it would capture its trite quality fairly well. Gray needs to get Schmidt's collection of primary sources, WHAT IS ENLIGHTENMENT? and read the Germans before he again holds forth on what Western philosophy amounts to.     It's not that the complexity of enlightenment is too much for such a small book, but rather that Gray seems totally unfamiliar with it and doesn't know how to present it in a relevant way. There are many, many threads in Enlightenment philosophy, and its scientism is probably the most wide-spread and the most dangerous. Its damage to twentieth century epistemology is incalculable, for instance. If we follow these   threads, we can see relationships with radical ideologies like fascism, Marxism and Leninism, Darwinism and colonialism, etc. But the relationships are complex and it is disingenuous toindict ALL such philosophy on the basis of myriad perversions (of which I agree al-Qaeda is one of the more perverted and complex examples). On these issues I recommend Saul's VOLTAIRE'S BASTARDS for a critique of Western rationality, Jonathan Israel's RADICAL ENLIGHTENMENT focuses on Spinozism and can therefore give some good examples of early enlightenment absolutism (via Spinoza's panentheism), and the classic critique DIALECTIC OF ENLIGHTENMENT by Horkheimer and Adorno (2002 Stanford translation) for an extended dose of hyperbole on Western rationality as barbaric irrationalism.      I sympathize with Gray's generic anti-utopianism, whether of   neo-liberal economics, marxism, scientism, islamofascism, etc. However, the last act of his book is a vague call for a bankrupt cultural relativism. \\"Respect for other societies\\" and all that good stuff. Very nice, yet he seems blind to both the fact that some of these other societies we ought to honor harbor their own virulent utopianism, as well as to the implications of sublimated modernism in his own position. How to address these? Gray is silent. With only one reference  to MacIntyre's AFTER VIRTUE, he probably hasn't read it seriously   enough to know that perhaps there he has a starting point to work with in both addressing the failure of the Enlightenment project's ethical and political ambitions, and in being able to evaluate not only our own short comings but those of others in a historicism that will appeal to him.	2004-08-07
US	45840663	R36S8UTIBX47W3	0195166892	439635308	Yasir Arafat: A Political Biography	Books	2	14	22	N	N	Badly Written Biography	The Rubins' ARAFAT: A POLITICAL BIOGRAPHY isn't necessarily a bad book, but it's a lousy biography. It's more like an extended political essay attempting to document their conclusions about Arafat's personality and worldview, by drawing relationships between Arafat's political antics to demonstrate an overall pattern that explains the failures of the Middle East peace process. <br />  <br /> There is little of it with which I disagree, in the end. The image of Arafat as a mater tactician with absolutely no strategic comprehension is a case made quite well. Yassir Arafat was and is a terrorist at heart, hasn't any political vision for Palestinian society beyond a failed militant strategy and his own grandeur, and is and has been the biggest impediment to peace in Israel. His failures and defeats are numerous, and his victories non-existent, yet he retains incredible political stature. The Rubins identify the recurring themes of Arafat's political career, and continually restate their case. There is a fairly well-argued consistency. <br />  <br /> None the less, this book fails to be a &quot;political biography&quot; (whatever that is), let alone any kind of biography. The fault is in the writing. The point of this book is to make a case, and the title should have reflected that. The image of Arafat, as a man or a political figure, remains superficial after the Rubins are done. As one reads along, Arafat remains a very distant figure. Most of the sources were from contemporary news articles, far removed from the action, and the writing never strays from a two-dimensional journalism throughout. The way quotes are used, not to explore the man but to support premises, supports that. Although in the Preface the authors allude to the fact that they have interviewed many close to Arafat, that never seems to figure in the text. In fact, the Rubins claim that many they interviewed who know Arafat personally told them they hoped their book would help explain the man to them. Idoubt the end result will really do so.  <br />  <br /> There isn't really an effort to chronicle Arafat's life, political life, or career (however they many want to put it). Instead, important events are used to support their central argument with little chronological coherence, as the Rubins will flit from event to event, often years apart, to support their claims. Things that would seem important are glossed over inexcusably.  <br />  <br /> For instance, the authors dispense in two or three sentences Arafat's consolidation of control over a splintering PLO in Lebanon by alluding to some assassination attempts by other Fatah elements (there isn't any discussion what kind of efect this had on Arafat) leading to some brutality from pro-Arafat elements (we aren't told what they are), and then on to the next paragraph. Thus, a potentially fascinating and insightful study of a crucial and stressful time receives only a bare mention. The entire book is like this. The discussion of his techniques for sustaining centralized control aren't really explored very well, instead we have repeated generalizations about thriving in chaos and whatnot.  <br />  <br /> Ultimately, it will leave you unsatisfied and unimpressed if you are expecting a biography.	2004-07-24
US	45840663	R12VFWWUMB8CLS	037572740X	788319158	The Cold Six Thousand	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Relentlessly violent jaunt through the Sixties	I've only read this book, not knowing it was part of a trilogy. For another great (shorter) trilogy, check out Ellroy's L.A. NOIR; three novels with psycho-genius cop Hopkins and his psycho-genius antagonists. With THE COLD SIX THOUSAND, I think Ellroy is trying to pull off a sometimes impressive feat that often falls flat.<br />The first page grabbed me. That's all you'll need. The characters are wonderful. Wayne Jr.'s evolution in Ellroy's morally dead world is often fascinating. Big Pete is a great, almost operatic figure. You find yourself empathizing with these characters who are really horribly racist, spiritually empty fascists and psychopaths. The intrigue is the fuel that keeps you going. I'm just glad he didn't drag it out with some spin tying in John Lennon's murder.<br />That said, the darn thing is too long, and not particularly well-written. Good editing would have pared a lot of redundancies. The clipped sentences Ellroy deploys get mind-numbing, and feel very contrived most of the time. I don't know what he's up to, but it comes off as some Hemingway-meets-meth style that simply aggravates. Eventually, the pattern gets so old that you find your eyes floating over them. At least they're grammatically correct for the most part, and don't destroy the overall narrative (check out T. Harris' ludicrous HANNIBAL for that effect).<br />Repetitive phrasing is aggravating. Any sentence longer than four words is something along the lines of: \\"[Wayne/Pete/Ward] went and *braced* said [someone/something], which *vibed* très boocoo [hophead/Fed/swish/Klan/etc.] blah blah blah.\\" Everything and everyone seems to be getting *braced* at any given moment. Insane. I'm serious; entire pages are filled with that basic sentence patter over and over. Ellroy might be trying to get us into the speech patterns of this world, but it mostly comes off as contrived. That and obsessively stupid klannish konversions of words to 'k' beginnings: \\"The krappy kotten krop was karted toKarson City.\\" Ick.<br />But don't let that deter you. And if you don't like it, don't give up on James Ellroy. He and Elmore Leonard are the best at what they do.	2004-02-10
US	45840663	R3G8WTMWTH32TB	0936756330	433921773	Speed & Politics	Books	3	4	11	N	N	This book has nothing to do with Foucault	I don't know if there is some bug in Amazon's system, but the three reviewers do not appear to be review Virilio's &quot;Speed and Politics.&quot;	2004-01-23
US	45840663	RBKNFPDKCSQQA	0786712325	892031765	Jefferson's War: America's First War on Terror 1801-1805	Books	3	72	82	N	N	Deserves a read	The major reason to read this book is that there simply aren't enough books that try to give a reasonably comprehensive history of the the Tripolitan War and US policy at the time. A lot of books focusing on the war are more concerned with the naval history, and \\"the birth of the US Navy.\\" That is all well and good, but the politics, policy, and financial aspects of the war deserve a lot of attention in a single volume as well as the remarkable achievements of the young Navy in the Mediterranean. Important lessons can be drawn from our experience and applied today.<br />However, the subtitle: \\"America's First War on Terror\\" is hyperbolic. This is understandable, though, since it will augment the book's sale, and there is nothing wrong with a book out there on this topic that is accessible to us laymen. Also, the heavy use of \\"The Terror\\" in the early chapters in referring to the piracy gets a little worn. On the other hand, Roger Albin's vituperative response to the book is totally over the top, since author Wheelan barely discusses September 11 in the preface, and nowhere in the text (see the index). It is left to the reader to draw direct (or indirect) parallels. The Barbary states weren't terrorists as we understand them today. Tactics of terror were used by these mercenary states, as were \\"liberal\\" justifications of their piracy through Koranic verse, but we should be careful about blurring those vile and venal potentates with the far more sophisticated and apocalyptic terrorists of al-Qaeda. Al-Qaeda's global political vision is far scarier, far more dangerous, and warrants a far more unrelenting and thorough destruction than the Barbary states did.<br />However, important lessons can be gained from studying this early naval war: (1) It was an expeditionary war that depended on mobility, improvisation, and unorthodox tactics; (2) Some enemies cannot be engaged with dialogue, or speech as we know it, but only through force and violence; (3) American domestic politics (Congress particularly) heavily favors half-measures and mediocre solutions while allowing domestic partisan fights to obscure our understanding of the enemy; and, (4) A confused domestic response undermined the country's diplomatic capital, allowing opponents to infer weakness and exploit us, compromising the military response.<br />Also, the inexplicable silliness of the Navy's first cruise in the Med should also be a major lesson about keeping objectives clear and firmly in mind. <br />Currently, those weaknesses are highly instructive, and not as some sort of validation of current policies. Addressing them reduces the country's vulnerability, and allows us to exercise power abroad more coherently and more successfully. We can also draw lessons from the great strength's of this war via this book, which were the personalities of its heroes. William Eaton, with his brazeness, creativity, and unrelenting spirit, is a great example of the American creatively making the best out of a confusing situation with the limited resources he's been allowed. For all of his often sad flaws, he should be studied by everyone.<br />I think JEFFERSON'S WAR merits three-and-a-half stars, mainly from the uninspiring writing, and a tendency towards a style that favors really breathless and overwritten narrative. What I really like about this book, though, is he gives a succinct, yet accurate history of the Barbary states' relations to Europe up to Tripoli's war with America, which I think is really important. Europe was tolerating the piracy in the Mediterannean for hundreds of years, so claiming that the Napoleonic Wars explains the lack of European puissance is inadequate to say the least. <br />Also, you will see from reading excerpts of Adams', Jefferson's, and Eaton's, letters 'et al' that the pride and dignity of a young nation being extorted by pirates was just as important to them as was its economic health; both of which were explicitly being fought for with Jefferson'spolicies and the US Navy's actions, and both of which are thoroughly explored in Wheelan's text, any reviewers' arguments about Wheelan's \\"implications\\" to the contrary.<br />A more rigorous, and I think an equally readable book, is Michael Kitzen's TRIPOLI AND THE UNITED STATES AT WAR, which is sadly out of print. It's primarily based on U.S. documents, and does a great job with William Eaton's letters.	2003-11-01
US	45840663	RV2SAZE3L1VH6	1583225900	996674017	Power and Terror: Post-9/11 Talks and Interviews	Books	2	27	61	N	N	Been There, Done That...	Chomsky's 9-11, rushed into print after September 11, was a badly<BR>conceived and often embarassingly flawed book. The newer POWER AND TERROR continues this rush to mediocrity. A collection of interviews and lecture Q&A sessions, the same tedious ramblings are continued here. It's taking on the status of shtick. The book is not only redundant in and of itself, but redundant to 9-11, which was itself annoyingly redundant. Thus, it is appropriate for the reader to begin to feel a bit abused after a while. <br />9-11's only real distinction was how little it talked about September 11th, beside the half-hearted caveat that it was a \\"terrible atrocity\\" (but understandable, in Chomsky's eyes). Instead, September 11 was just instrumental for him to once again ramble ad nauseum about some article he read which obviously validates everything he then dubiously concludes from it, or about a certain reprehensible U.S. policy that nevertheless has no direct bearing on the topic, etc. Folks, we've been there, done that; while much of it can be agreed with or sympathized with, that shouldn't make us susceptible to Chomsky's often manipulative analogical and correlative tactics unless: (1) we're reading this for self-validation, rather than to learn anything; and (2) we're so misinformed about world events that we confuse Chomsky's exausted repetoire as synonymous with information. Most people immediately see this smokescreen for what it is, which is the marginalization of the attacks on the U.S., and their subordination to Chomsky's increasingly archaic political agenda. <br />Now, Chomsky likes it when people call him an apologist, which he is, but he is ambiguous enough about it that he can dodge the issue and try and paint his critics as irrational. In POWER AND TERROR he tries to draw an analogy between his views and some Wall Street Journal piece in a disingenuous argument that his critique is moderate common sense. Don't be taken in by these dodgy attempts to establish credibility. What makes Chomsky's discussions of terrorism so arguably apologistic is both the absence of any serious discussion on religious fundamentalism, beyond the glib and patronizing idea that America created it, and his tendency to discuss human suffering in arithmetic terms. Thus we see him trotting out dubious and self-serving statistics of past atrocities on the part of the \\"West,\\" universalized as a singular personality for his convenience, to help us \\"understand\\" why the U.S. is the determining, singular-cause of suffering in the world, blah blah blah. Sure, 3000 Americans died in a heinous suicide attack by religious zealots whose object is to release a wave of nihilism-cum-religion on the poor and helpless, but gosh since Vietnam was a dirty, vile war we had it coming, and lots more people died then, so there. The implicit lesson, never courageously made explicit, is that Americans are ignorant imbeciles since they don't swallow Chomsky's correlations, and capitulation and masochism is the surest way for the world to become safely filled with sane people, like all those nice folks in Boulder, Cambridge, and Berkley. You'll read lots of hand-wringing about Turkey and the Kurds, but this ignores the fact that Kurds are about the most pro-America people on the planet besides the Marines.<br />Chomsky's monomania is telling, and predictable. The contradictions he wraps himself in are funny in their own right. Based on his answers in the first interview, its clear he has begun to believe the mythology that has been built around him. That is the problem when you surround yourself with sycophants for interviewers and supplicants for audiences; no criticality is introduced into the discourse, and a self-affirming feedback loop is set up that has obviously atrophied into the incoherent and barely readable books he is putting out nowadays.<br />Chomsky's supposed challenge to the orthodoxy is increasingly ridiculed because it is itself so limited by its own orthodoxy. One questioner asked Chomsky whether he was guilty of oversimplification, which prompted some self-righteous rant on the British Empire or something. It's not that Chomsky is guilty of simplification, which can be a useful tool as an entryway to increasingly complex awareness. Instead, Chomsky's problem is superficiality, which allows him to selectively use 'x'-event to validate his worldview as consistent, ignore 'y'-event, and distort anything else through dubious correlation-as-cause arguments. The problem is not simplicity, it is insubstantiality. <br />Here one will also find the same sanctimonious ramblings about how the mainstream media ignores him. This is rote in the Chomsky Mythology. However, to sell the book positive comments about it from corporate lackeys like the NYTimes, Variety, and the New York Daily are included. Chomskyites want it both ways: credibility from being ignored and marginalized, and credibility from being noticed and significant. The man has published in the Carnegie Foundation's \\"Foreign Policy\\" for crying out loud, which is about as Establishment as you can get.<br />People turning to Chomsky for an understanding of terrorism and world dynamics are being shortchanged. POWER AND TERROR is a badly constructed, barely coherent book that undermines, rather than elucidates, understanding of violent religious ideologies and their opposition to the United States. Don't be satisfied with Chomsky's tired two-dimensionality. While U.S. policy has miserably contributed to the level of violence in the world, \\"blowback\\" is not the simple, paint-by-numbers explanation many are searching for. Anyone trotting out mono-causal explanations ought to be immediately suspect, whether its Bush's \\"They hate freedom,\\" or Chomsky's \\"It's just a matter of<BR>sanity.\\" One would be better off with serious scholarship about fundamentalist ideologies like Karen Armstrong's THE BATTLE FOR GOD, or Juergenmeyer's THE MIND OF TERROR. These kinds of books addressterrorism seriously, as part of the mindset of thinking, intelligent and ruthless people with sophisticated religious ideologies who are not just inconveniences for Chomsky's shallow, deterministic worldview.	2003-06-25
US	45840663	R27TQATMMCJE4F	0374253854	630469625	Samurai William: The Englishman Who Opened Japan	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great, great book	A superb, readable history loosely organized around William Adams, the real Anjin-Sama. Adams' achievements were extraordinary; Clavell didn't have to stretch all that much to create the Blackthorn character in Shogun. The incredible voyage across the two oceans, and then surviving against all odds to achieve prominence and nobility status as a foreigner in medieval Japan are riveting accounts. <br />Writing with great lucidity, Milton relies a lot on personal and British East India company correspondence to paint this portrait of not only Williams, but of the budding efforts of the English to participate in Asian commerce. Thus, we read not only about Adams, but about an failed ocean adventure above Russian seeking a route through the ice packs, tromping through Siam in search of rare woods, tension with the Spanish, tensions with the Dutch, and about the tight-fisted prudes back in the London office disapproving of their factors whoring their way across Asia. A cast of characters --some funny, some diabolical, many mediocre-- flesh out Milton's portrait of early English commercial efforts. Milton also gives us some interesting insight into the cultur of and politics of Japan at the time of Tokugawa Ieyasu's assention to the Shogunate. A lot of attention is given not just to commerce, but to the inextricably linked issue of religion. Missionaries' efforts in Japan make for a fascinating and unique read, since Japan was so much more sophisticated than either the those the Europeans typically missioned to, as well as the Europeans themselves. <br />The communication gap between the Japanese and the Europeans, and William's ability to overcome it, bears careful attention. The few pages about Ieyasu's brilliant defeat Osaka castle is fascinating by itself.<br />I read the hardcover version, which had a wonderful rough cut on the edge, which may make some prefer that over the paperback.	2003-06-03
US	45840663	R2FPUN1K5BU959	0582437571	869385826	Richelieu	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Unimpressive	This is not a comprehensive biography, which is what initially attracted me to this book. Knecht's RICHELIEU is part of a series of what are supposed to be short, concise that address the power and politics of various great figures in European history. Thus, we thankfully don't have to read about Richelieu's preference in wine and ad nauseum speculations on whether he died a virgin. The focus is supposed to be on what made this person succeed politically in their time and context, and what they did when they achieved power.<br />All in all, while I understand the desire for consistency, I found the book often vague about significant events while spending time offering random speculation and criticism of other work in the field. Claims are made without adequate support or argumentation. I also question whether the organization of the book was best strategically. Devoting distinct chapters to Richelieu's use of propaganda or his relationship to the nobility is arguably valuable, but I think the whole work suffers since there isn't a focus towards understanding how these different elements interrelate.<br />For the most part, though, I just found the prose dull, and only moderately informative. Ultimately, I think the exposition of how Richelieu exercised power suffers as a result.	2003-06-03
US	45840663	RPXPBMRHEQSGC	0446604844	473671370	Total Control	Books	2	5	7	N	N	yuppie mom vs. ex-CIA psychos	This kind of stuff is great for travelling. You plunks down your bucks at the airport lounge; you gets your 700 pages of tough cops, beautiful and spunky women, and not-so-very well hidden goony bad guys. I liked the Lee Sawyer character, and the general premise was okay, but it was far less fun when the book was less about investigation and more about \\"...now see Sydney run.\\"<br />Although there are a couple of good twists concerning connections between various plot threads, one would have to be comatose to not see the final endgame. Baldacci makes only a couple of half-hearted attempts to distract us from the blaring neon lights that are our villains.<br />The Sydney Archer character became increasingly ridiculous as the story went on. Trying to picture her single-handedly taking on a crew of ex-CIA psychopaths only resulted in cringing. The writing of the final shootout battle was basically nonexistent; instead we felt like we were being rushed to the finale.<br />All-in-all, with reasonably low expectations, one won't be overly disappointed to have this book for layover reading.	2003-04-14
US	45840663	RO065ZQBA2UAE	0142001686	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	2	7	37	N	N	Barren Terrain	&quot;The battle for the mind of Ronald Reagan was like the trench warfare of World War I: never have so many fought so hard for such barren terrain.&quot; <br />ATTRIBUTION: Peggy Noonan (b. 1950), U.S. author, presidential speechwriter. 'What I Saw at the Revolution,' ch. 14 (1990). <br />Noonan worked as a special assistant and speechwriter to Reagan, 1984-1988.	2003-03-18
US	45840663	RG0TSCLHG2NUD	1563898446	331222438	Batman: The Dark Knight Strikes Again	Books	1	11	15	N	N	My oh my	Not worth the trees killed, and certainly not worth money spent, I was absolutely shocked at the disaster that is DK2. I cannot believe that this was approved. Of course the excitement over a sequel to the brilliant Dark Night Returns would ensure would ensure that people would line up to buy stick figures drawn on toilet paper, but that does not make it a decent thing to do. <br />I don't know what happened here, but this pandering garbage should never have seen the light of day. Crude drawings, absolutely dreadful background work; the complex, extraordinary Gotham in the first is replaced by pages of lazy, IMac rendered shades of red or blue.  *YAWN*  The story is boring, silly and predictable. The Batman is glib, sadistic, and lifeless. It was fun watching Superman v. Batman at the end of the first DKR, but this story is totally ludicrous. <br />I was so disappointed, I can imagine the frustration of the tens of thousands of fans who appreciated the first DKR for the incredible, artistic and socially incisive bombshell that it was. A total letdown from Frank Miller. I was shocked at this heartless, obvious sellout.	2003-02-12
US	45840663	R2FFZX8FN89GSI	1894037073	746517756	Pacifism As Pathology: Reflections On The Role Of Armed Struggle In North America	Books	2	15	32	N	N	Interesting but confused	\\"All persons who propose to improve the human race seem to me to be equally fraudulent.\\" -- H.L. Mencken<br />PACIFISM AS PATHOLOGY is an interesting little essay, introducing the mindset and rationalizations of terrorists and pseudo-terrorist academics. Churchill's passionate denunciation of pacifist movements are hilarious in their own right; his satire is a biting critique of the shallow sanctimonies of pacifist protest in the Sixties. The argument's limitations, however, are in the transformation in moral consciousness that HAS galvanized criticism of government policy since Vietnam and the civil rights era. Of course, this consciousness still has the sentimentalism that Churchill criticizes, but policy makers are now almost overly-sensitive to perception and public relations as a result of the legacy of anti-war protest. <br />The sad legacy of the pro-violence position is to be found in figures like Sara Jane Olson and the goofball Symbionese Liberation Army. Like the Weathermen, Frantz Fanon, and the SLA, Churchill's argument is devoid of any reasonable discussion of the ends to be reached via his angry means. This is the biggest obstacle to any argument in support of violence, and it rarely seems overcome, either through theory or historical example (how many Chinese look back on the Cultural Revolution with anything other than embarrasment or pain?). Churchill goes no further than discussing the illimitable joys of the \\"postrevolutionary context,\\" contentless and euphemistic jargon if ever there was any. That's a good starting point for understanding why Americans in general seem tone-deaf to rantings such as Churchill's.<br />The only sustainable argument for practicing violence is that it is strategic to achieving a legitimate end. Oblations to the \\"postrevolutionary context\\" are certainly underwhelming in this regard, and Churchill's historical appeals --despite commendable work in his footnotes-- are never sufficient for anything beside making fun of the pacifists. <br />Anyway, the weirder part of the book is Churchill's argument that pacifism is a psychological illness. There is something very creepy and dangerous in this conflation of the political with the psychological. It is funny at first, but of course does not really hold up if you go the distance. Churchill roots pacifist practice in certain insecurities and anxieties of the future yuppies of America protesting Vietnam. However, this does not extend to pacifism per se, as he sort of grudgingly concedes with his examples of Buddhist self-immolaters. His main support rests on his criticisms of the Jews' acceptance of the death camp fate. All sorts of issues are engendered there, but ultimately Churchill is confusing metaphor with reality. <br />Pacifism is an ideological stance that might be analogous to a psychological condition via contorted argument, but that does not make it synonymous to the psychological condition. This makes his prescriptive \\"therapy\\" all the more hilarious, with its mandates of political indoctrination serving as medicine. One is reminded of the Khmer Rouge turning Cambodia into a vast agrarian gulag to cure the people of their bourgeois values.  Thus, it is apparent Churchill's prognosis of political conditioning is designed to achieve yet another fanatic. I was reminded of the Soviets' use of psychiatry to demean and dehumanize political opposition with the stigma of diagnosis. It is no different here.<br />Really, all ideology could be characterized as a pathological condition, but that would ultimately, and no doubt unfortunately, include Churchill's own vague appeals to the benevolent society that would erupt after the revolution. Coupled with his therapy and belief in violence as a corrective, we easily see in this vision all the elements of Habermas' ideological superstructure used as an instrument of oppression. How many people ever build makeshift rafts to escape to Cuba? How many of the tens of thousands trying to get thehell out of Vietnam are nostalgic for their Democratic People's Paradise? Ultimately, totalitarian stupidities are the end product of these sorts of benighted fantasies, with the common people mutilated and digested in their own name to sustain these vicious machines. Those who have the luxury of being sentimental about them are tpically the well-to-do in the West. In the US, such fantasizers have mainly been a grab bag of pathetic angry-at-dad types, bankrobbers, and drug dealers. Their distinction comes from having coopted a revolutionary vocabulary into a garbled and senseless ideology to rationalize their angers and get on TV. Their position as historical curiosities, irrelevant to political discourse in America, proves the strategic irrelevance of their tactics, and certainly belies any moral power in PACIFISM AS PATHOLOGY.	2002-11-11
US	45840663	RO6G8ORUWLPR1	1565121856	954039645	THE BAD DAUGHTER: Betrayal and Confession	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Powerful and courageous memoir	There are some virulently negative reviews of this book posted here. It's really rather extraordinary. It certainly confirms Hilden's own statement that this is a &quot;taboo&quot; book, that it is not a book with a satisfying resolution of release and forgiveness. Instead, it is a most unhappy tale that is still in progress. That someone could write a memoir like this so young and convey so much pain so succintly is its own denouncement of those who have apparently drawn some half-baked conclusions about Hilden's personality. My guess is that many nay-sayers did not bother to finish the book, and ought to consider more carefully Hilden's reflections on the possibility of Alzeihmers hanging over her like Damocles' sword.<br />Through an almost clinical relay of her life, she shows for us the detachment she uses to describe her as a child. It does not make for easy reading, but you can only mourn for her soul as she relays the trite and malformed relationships she has had with men. It was telling that over a hundred pages of the book went by with no mention of her father. Even in her most dry and pitiless prose one can sense the incessant pain of her life. So often pain is the root source of obsession; that it often results in success --and Hilden is obviously an extremely gifted attorney-- certainly cannot obscure the root pain in her life. Applaud her for this brave expiation; I could at times feel her tears in her writing, it must have been so painful to write this. A tremendous little book; I read it in one sitting.	2002-10-07
US	45840663	R34J3A43WHD8AJ	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Amazon is making me give it 1 star	Clancy's THE BEAR AND THE DRAGON debacle stands out in the sad decline of an author who doesn't write novels so much as squeeze blood from turnips. Reading Clancy is no longer to be introduced to a gripping story - the only appeal of techno-thrillers - but rather to be exposed to a sterile fantasy world of atrocious dialogue, bad similes, bizarre racial slurring, and a mind-numbing plot of little content. Throw in the puerile blatherings of the Ryan character's internal monologue, and I actually felt awkward on Clancy's behalf. <br />The plot--what little there is--is an artificial mockery of what Clancy gave us with RED OCTOBER and CARDINAL. His characters have always been tedious, but the sad schmuck that is our dear President Ryan is one of the most ridiculous this side of an Ayn Rand novel. The Hero President's speech is delivered in the most contrived \\"aw shucks\\" attitude it becomes almost embarrassing. Ryan's self-indulgent odes to himself and his monotonous world are supposed to impress the reader with his noble detachment from the filth of politics, but instead we become teeth-grindingly tired of his pompous self-directed homages after about the ... oh ... thirtieth time. I certainly wouldn't recommend anyone read this book, but if you do, have no fear in skipping the often multi-page internal monologue of the characters Clancy uses to deliver a vapid political ideology, you will miss nothing of the rather elusive (yet predictable) plot. The characters are only able to communicate to each other in cliché, and each adopt an attitude of the most obnoxious condescension to each other that it is impossible to believe they would be able to interact civilly. The real target of the characters' snooty explanations of \\"reality\\" is really the reader, who ought to rightly feel offended by Clancy's repetitive and very exhaustible source of ideas. <br />His treatment of the Chinese is one of the weirdest and most uncomfortable aspects of the book. Clancy historically has nothing but denigration for his \\"tree-huggers\\" and any media figures unless they submit to the bland ideology of our heroes. There is little but contempt for those who disagree with him, and he uses his characters to engage in their dismissal through epithets, rather than any kind of encounter with their ideas. However, the insistent reference of his American heroes to the Chinese as \\"slant-eyes,\\" \\"klingons,\\" \\"chinks\\" etcetera is not a man challenging PC oppressions, which is what he thinks he is doing. Rather, Clancy is presenting heroes who suffer from the same dogmatisms and closed-loop learning patterns with which he stereotypes his absurd and self-gratifying sense of Chinese psychology. The blind superiority he mocks in his villains is the mirror image of the self-validating world he creates. <br /> However, the outcome is never in doubt, no one of any consequence suffers. What little action there is is telegraphed to us in a routinized recitation of glorious acts. If fact, though a couple of F-14s get shot down, it is once again a bloodless and triumphant ride to glory for Clancy's America. It's very tedious, since Clancy is skillful at showing he has read a lot of Popular Science articles, and not at much else.	2002-10-01
US	45840663	R3A8U3RSY6OE9L	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	1	63	121	N	N	A Thin Gruel for the Dysfunctional	It is extraordinary Rand's adherents refer to ATLAS SHRUGGED as her \\"masterpiece\\" with no small measure of pride, since the book is the literary equivalent of a train wreck. Of course, all of her \\"work\\" is basically indistinguishable unless you are actually concerned with drawing absurd distinctions between her ridiculous characters. They are not really characters; instead she has two tedious characterizations which she then fails to personify as characters in any reasonable way. Reading SHRUGGED gives the same sense of macabre voyeurism one would feel at some gruesome accident. My jaw continually dropped in grim fascination every few pages after some banal spew was passed off in the most hapless, disjointed prose this side of the tenth grade as some sort of self-evident profundity. Her laborious and redundant writing ought to be regarded as insults by those \\"objectively\\" convinced of their uniqueness.<br />Basically, SHRUGGED is an appeal to the anxious and afraid personality. It is no wonder that the deeply insecure would be the most responsive to her one-dimensional cosmology, since any actual human remotely resembling her heroes would be out enthusiastically mining uranium with a garden trowel or something. Rand's version of heroism is tailor-made for the self-loathing; a simulated philosophy in which the angst-ridden and privileged irresponsible can retreat. Instead of celebrating industrial Atlases, Rand creates a safety blanket of rationalizations for the dysfunctional. Her form of the hero and her celebration of that form are contradictory; she lathers sentimentality on the rational egoist for being so unsentimental, so that he can have significance. In Rand's world, the indifferent hero desperately needs to be worshipped.<br />Debating the pros and cons of \\"objectivism\\" entirely misses the point. There is really no substance to any sort of philosophy that is discussable. For all the blathering about reason, it is never utilized to support the validity of her worldview. For instance, skip the 1000+ pages of drivel and open the back cover. Then read the `Essentials of Objectivism.' Note the declarative statements of what constitutes metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, politics, etc. Then note the reasoning used to support her claims.... This will prove difficult since there is absolutely none. For all of the pretension to being a rational `Ism,' Rand's \\"principles\\" (doctrines) are really just a collection of meaningless, dogmatic claims that are not substantiated in any way. A theory involves a system of concepts that are related to each other in a logical way (e.g., Premise & Premise therefore Conclusion). Objectivism does not even bother to do that. One's premises must be justified in order for one's conclusion to be sound. Objectivism does not even rate being called \\"pseudo-philosophy,\\" rather it is a set of bizarre, hackneyed claims that have no relationship to the things they are ostensibly about. <br />Objectivism is basically an aesthetic in the sense of it being a mirage of self-validating flavors. To even need this monotonous mirage is to contradict it, thus an absurdity. Not only that, Rand's mirage is a quasi-individualism that requires all the individualists to be exactly alike. An inward sterility is the only way an individual can acquire meaning, thus to be unique is to be in a dull conformity with the other heroes. For Rand, genuine interpersonal relationships are based on rape, both in the abstract and the real, showing nothing more than an incapacity to relate to others. How bizarre is that? No wonder Rand needed cult techniques to create a collective of toadies to tell her that her individualism has significance.	2002-09-19
US	45840663	RPV7MOKLPMX36	0130449741	836250036	September 11: A Testimony	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Representing Calamity	\\"Necessity may well be called the mother of invention-but calamity is the test of integrity.\\" -- Samuel Richardson<br />Reuters' SEPTEMBER 11 will be one of many photo collections that will be with us for many years. My respect for this particular one rests in its dedication, \\"We dedicate this book to our six colleagues from the Reuters family that we lost at the World Trade Center.\\"... <br />As for the book itself, it is a stunning collection. It is important for helping us refocus on the scope and magnitude of the attacks: not just New York, but Washington and Pennsylvania. The physical devastation, the human emotional tragedy, and the political drama are all represented. We ought to remember that the human behind the camera were present and, in a way, participants in these tragedies. To me, that compounds the impact of their work. These photographers deserve great credit.<br />Also, the book ends with some satellite and aerial photos of the WTC. Remarkable. This book reopens our emotional wounds from last September. This is important in helping us remember what this ongoing struggle is all about.	2002-04-27
US	45840663	R2P6Y1VJWDGS7A	0140266348	543648921	Richard III: England's Black Legend	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Entertaining history and narrative	This is an entertaining mixture of historical story-telling, scholary gumshoe work, and criticism. No aspect overpowers the book, which makes it an interestingly told history, and a well-shaped argument for Seward's perspective of Richard III's reign.<br />Of course, so much of his work in the primary sources leads him to numerous conjectural qualifications. This state of affairs demonstrates why there is so much divergence of opinion on Richard III. However, if both Richard's contemporary subjects and their progeny have such a consistently malignant view of the man's rule, why go to such effort to rehabilitate (revisionize) him? It is obvious Richard's black legend is not solely a product of Tudor propaganda. The man simply did all the heavy lifting on establishing history's view of his reign.<br />Seward's book is a good read. It's not a purely speculative, breathless narrative of \\"Maybe this happened, then that ... probably,\\" but an argued case that approaches all of the sources in the field, primary and modern. This book has the potential to become the definitive history of Richard III and his reign; it simply lacks the appeals to cliched romanticism that surround much work in English history.	2002-03-19
US	45840663	R3D2FBL4W6JABP	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	2	2	2	N	N	The energizer bunny of history making	This book was an excessively long and self-indulgent piece that ruined the enjoyment of a good subject. What could have served as a decently long essay in a tony magazine became instead a confused, repetitive, and outright weird full length book.<br />The basic facts of the story could have been boiled down to about thirty pages of interesting reading. This book instead takes us on a tedious journey that randomly returns to the topic at hand before venturing off again into philology la-la-land.<br />By the end of the thing, the history writing became outrageously bad. Simon was trying to breathe a little life into what was a sad and anti-climactic end to a curious, straightforward little tale. The theorizing about the possibility of a sexual relationship betweeen Dr. Minor and his victim's wife was totally outrageous, unsustainable, and tacky. It was simply terrible conjecturing, passing off a possibility of extremely LOW probability. The salacious factore, however, apparently drove Winchester into the need to inflate this book.<br />All in all, I would give it **1/2. It's not super terrible, but don't hesitate to find something better to do.	2002-03-19
US	45840663	R1WL5V3X6I6FJG	0786708581	947319022	The Last Battle: The Mayaguez Incident and the End of the Vietnam War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Passionate work -- some flaws	I'd really like to give this book ***1/2, but I upped it to four, because of Wetterhahn's obvious passion and effort that he put into this book. Not only was he an author, he was a participant in the effort to shed the light on an the last, sad ignominous episode in America's Southeast Asian adventure.<br />This book does a lot to demystify the 'Mayaguez Incident,' give honor and remembrance to the fallen, and shed light on the mediocrity of Washington leadership. Long ago I read Larry Bond's novel, VORTEX, and I remember towards the end one of the characters thinking of the badguy leader, &quot;Our president is no longer a president, but just another incompetent batallion commander&quot; (a paraphrase, obviously). That line came to mind when reading of Ford, Kissinger, Schelsinger &amp; Co. screwing the whole thing up in an effort to demonstrate &quot;will&quot; and &quot;resolve&quot; for Ford's legitimacy. One of the most comic and tragic moments of the book came when the White House photographer spoke up in the NSC meeting to point out the obviousness of the Cambodian situation. It's comic because it is seems such an absurdity in a modern democracy that spends zillions of dollars to know what the hell is going on, it's tragic because the chutzpah of the nation's leadership led to the tragic outcome of the Mayguez Incident.<br />Wetterhahn himself was actively involved in searching for the Marines left behind, and this book will serve an important role in bringing to the fore the results of a political leadership that consumed its own men as a way to communicate strength to the world, and garner political legitimacy at home. Watterhahn's personal involvement in researching the lives of the three lost Marines, and searching for them in death, needs to be honored.<br />Other reviewers --some personally involved in the Koh Tang battle-- have posted here, pointing out flaws in Watterhahn's work. I can't argue with any of them, and I think the criticisms of his scholarship are apt. What the book needed most was some serious editing. We read 1,000 times about how Em Son was injured in battle 16 times. If it had been 1,001 I would have bashed the book through the wall. Probably a good thirty pages could have been cut with a focus on clarity and precise writing, and the elimination of blatant redundancy. However, this was --at it's utmost-- a war story, and that sort of thing is to be expected, I suppose..<br /> My biggest peeve was the citing. If you are not going to have direct cites in a historical work, you better have your act together when you reference other works. Somewhere along the line, three pages got inserted into the book, and nobody bothered rechecking and adjusting his references. So you had to subtract some pages (or add, I can't remember), to get to the document he was citing. That's just plain bad oversight, and is not excusable in a serious work.	2001-12-20
US	45840663	R16Z86WVXOT6LB	187837995X	927919603	Negotiating on the Edge: North Korean Negotiating Behavior (Cross-Cultural Negotiation Books)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent study of all levels of NK negotiating behavior	A balanced and pragmatic analysis of North Korean negotiating perceptions and behavior, Snyder's book will be one of the most significant and useful studies of North Korea for years. His study ranges at all levels, thus we see analyses of both negotiating tactics as well as the cultural and psychological perceptions that inform those tactics. This book is highly recommended for anyone who wants a glimpse into North Korean decision making and thought, not just how they negotiate. The quasi-self-contained world of North Korea has generated a psychological perspective and mindframe that has its own internal rules of logic and acceptibility. An understanding of that world, and taking advantage of its contradictions and absurdities, is what makes this book all the more valuable.<br />Policymakers, diplomats, media, scholars, and students will all find this a useful and informative tool. Snyder's well-written presentation of the unique mindset of North Korean actors helps us understand their motivations and behaviors beyond the &quot;irrational and reclusive&quot; mantra of years gone by.	2001-12-01
US	45840663	R2OMF1DANDFK1L	083302955X	132086441	The United States and Asia: Toward a New U.S. Strategy and Force Posture (Project Air Force Report)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A good synopsis of Asia's strategic context	RAND's version of a breath of fresh air, this book is a useful synopsis the basic security situation throughout Asia, possible scenarios for the future, and the consequent implications and recommendations for US policy. It ought to be considered a companion to Swaine and Tellis' excellent INTERPRETING CHINA'S GRAND STRATEGY.<br />They author'shave four ultimate recommendations, briefly summed:<BR>1) The US should &quot;deepen and widen&quot; its bilateral security relationships throughout the region.<BR>2) The US should pursue a balance-of-power strategy among the major rising powers and key regional states in Asia that aren't within the US' alliance.<BR>3) The US should draw clear lines in the sand over the use of force (Taiwan figures preeminently in this), while trying to resolve territorial disputes and avoid being dragged into them (i.e., Mischief Reef).<BR>4) The US should promote security dialogue among all Asian states. (Elevating the smallest states puts a higher political imperative on a regional aggressor, this is probably the most stabilizing recommendation) <br />The overall analysis of the security balance in the region is the best part of this work. It allows a quick overview of American views on other countries' perspectives, concerns, and intents.<br />The weakest part is probably the attempt at recommending force structure changes. Although the ideas are good, they don't seem particularly well fleshed out. RAND is best at considering Air Force needs, thus there is no real consideration of Naval force structure beyond its aircraft supporting or being supported by Air Force. This is a somewhat glaring omission, as the Air Force may be a powerful deterrent as well as utterly essential in wartime, the Navy's function as GUARANTATOR of peace and stability on the surface as well as protective of SLOCs must be considered in any comprehensive review. The considerations of Air Force force structure (emphasis on long-range strike platforms) is well done, andan integration of Naval fighters as protective is overdue. This integration of specialization allows for a more effective and meaningful division of labor without sacrificing capability. That section, though, is far too short; I assume (or hope) because of security classification issues.<br />With its appendicies, this book comes out at over 200 pages. Works this long should include an index.	2001-12-01
US	45840663	R1SK02LSK7K24L	0451410130	581504957	Spy Dance	Books	3	3	4	N	N	True airplane fare	This book is the perfect accompaniment to the rubber chicken meal on a long flight. Beyond that, weird dialogue and preposterous politics can't elevate this book beyond being a way to spend a layover in O'Hare.<br />Topol has the potential to write a good spy novel. He's really good at taking different threads of events and weaving them into a satisfying conclusion. He can develop a good hero and heroine, and integrate the different and contradictory perspectives of the characters to get the reader into the overall plot.<br />However, one of his techniques is to use character dialogue as a way to inform the reader on the background context of the story. This can be a cool way to subtly use characters to aid in the overall narrative. Topol, doesn't really pull it off, though. Some of the dialogue exchanges are so cheezed you can't help but roll your eyes.<br />Also, the political context he tries to develop is really two-dimensional. He ought to have a good researcher for his next book in order to help get the political flavor more full. His presentation of Middle Eastern politics were really flat and at times outright preposterous. He needs to do better research on the different theological schools and their influence on Saudi politics, and how much influence different countries are really able to have on partisans. Who sympathizes with whom, and all that. I got the sense that he had written the bulk of this novel years ago. It seemed really out of date in its attempts to present a plausible political struggle.<br />Likewise, his villains were flat and boring. &quot;Madame Blanc&quot; was hilariously goony. It was almost like a parody of Clancy, after a while. Topol's badguys are SO obviously bad that it takes away from the overall tension after a while.<br />All in all,  with better research and editing oversight Topol ought to be able to write a good spy novel. He's really good at integrating a lot of competing interests into a complex smorgasborg. If he could match the machinations of the plot with a more plausible and interesting premise, his next book will also be appreciated on the next flight.	2001-11-25
US	45840663	R1AVX8WUM5UETQ	0671528904	133073868	Mind Hunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Underwhelming journey through the megalomaniac mind	Many of the reviews here aptly point out that the bulk of this book is Douglas' effort to pat himself on the back and inflate his work without really saying much about it. It is more a capitalization on the public interest in profiling than it is a helpful tool for understanding what the FBI does and why.<br />Thankfully, there are books out there that do just that. Douglas' book is valuable as a quick skimmer to familiarize yourself with some prominent cases while sitting in an airport lounge. On the whole, the biographical bits were wholly unnecessary. The structure of the book was a string of anecdotes that only served to confirm Douglas' prowess and importance (&quot;He is white, and inadequate&quot; yawn). He dodges in and out of cases, and his attempts to make a case for the importance of his work are never well argued (although I agree it IS important).<br />Essentially, every anecdote is designed to show us that the person that was caught matched the profile, yet the book oddly talks very little about profiling in any significant way.<br />He pretty much comes and and says how highly he regards himself. When talking about his underlings, he refers to them as &quot;stars in their own right.&quot; That characterizes much of the book: John Douglas thinks he's very much a star, and the only significance of everything else is to confirm that.	2001-11-25
US	45840663	R2LQLBVGTNTUUQ	0833028855	639045937	Swarming and the Future of Conflict	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A cool study on information war...applied	An interesting start into a functional aspect of evolving information-based warfare. Going beyond just having &quot;information dominance,&quot; this work explores the application of such knowledge with an explication of &quot;BattleSwarm&quot; doctrine. Returning to the controlled chaos of Mongol hoards, this study sees our capacities for information for integrated attack from all sides and from all dimensions. With a broad, historical outline that helps one's imagination, this study is a good start at the pros and cons this doctrine for the future.	2001-11-19
US	45840663	R2WXIEQBGF1XWD	0226075532	249323758	Tomorrow Never Knows: Rock and Psychedelics in the 1960s	Books	2	11	25	N	N	Dull regurgitations and sterile ruminations	This book is the equivalent of an overly long and wannabe-contemplative VH1 &quot;documentary.&quot; With the acknowledgment of how hard it is to capture the essence of the 60s' music and its society, this book then goes on to underwhelmingly live up to that observation. With self-important theorizing on the meaning of this-and-that, and hackneyed philosophizing on the significance of some banal lyrics or events, this book attempts to pass off various cliches as meaningful metaphors for other cliches. Nothing much is really said, nothing interesting is really brought out by his observations, and his attempts at capturing meaning leave one with the sense of &quot;So What?&quot;.<br />This book is another in a tired line of works on the sixties based on repititious mythologies and platitudes. It's useful if you are looking for some form of validation; however, one would be better off sticking to VH1.	2001-11-11
US	45840663	R2JGT8WZYYXAKP	0833010751	304317517	Prospects for the Afghan interim government	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Presents a significant understanding of Afghani factions	This 1991 work is severely out of date, of course. However, it is interesting primarily because it is the work of Zalmay Khalizad. An old and prominent hand at RAND, he plays a prominent role on Bush's NSC. He is also Afghan, and personally knows the most significant players in Afghanistan's politics, both dead and alive. Consequently, this book is useful for understanding the Bush Administration's understanding of Afghanistan's politics, perceiving its hopes and udnerstandings for Afghanistan's future, as well as the perceptions and attitudes of a significant policy player in the current conflict.	2001-11-10
US	45840663	R32DD5JVQA0EJN	081081160X	710961219	Norman Mailer: The Radical as Hipster	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A broad and incisive study of Mailer's works	Although over twenty-years old, this interesting book is a clearly readable and scholarly study of the issues of Norman Mailer's fiction. Critical, though not diatribal, the book is interesting because it is a genuine study of Mailer's work, rather than a bunch of quotes, citations, and contorted relations to obscure authors.<br />Most of the issues are broached: Mailer's sense of masculinity, the hip, and the racial and gender issues raised by his &quot;philosophical hipster.&quot; Thankfully present is an all too brief discussion of the morality engendered by Mailer's philosophical perspective, somewhat limited by the scope of work that Ehrlich is dealing with.<br />A good resource for those studying Mailer's particular cosmology of the individual.	2001-11-10
US	45840663	R1AFZ0YN0KDY66	1893554082	708955678	Hegemon: China's Plan to Dominate Asia and the World	Books	2	32	56	N	N	Deeply flawed and manipulative	Coming at the end of the book, there are kernels of excellence. He aptly critiques the maddeningly inconsistent and lukewarm approach of the US. His best points are in cricizing the more ridiculous assumptions of the left. Coherent and confident American attitudes, positions, and committments will go a long way in maintaining the peace in Asia. <br />One can't deny Mosher's passion for the topic. However, this book is deeply flawed from start to finish, and it's not just the fact of his politics. I can see why the FReepers glom so readily to this work; it's methodology, however, makes it an unconvincing and overall underwhelming thesis.<br />Mosher has a plethora of information, yet that is ultimately unimportant. It's only use is to establish scholarly credentials by overwhelming, since Chinese history is amply available in countless other works (and presented MUCH better). What IS important is the WAY he uses information; the style in which he constructs his argument. When this is analyzed, we readily and easily see that Mosher fails to truly convince, despite an entire book that gives the illusion of being convincing. Mosher's politics are irrelevant to this fact; his thesis is supported only by illusory tehcniques, instead of genuine empirical and logical construction.<br />His major technique is the paradigm argument, a rhetorical tool that goes back to Aristotle's Greece. Analogy to the paradigm is used to draw conclusions that in this case are laughably sophistic. Mosher's paradigm is the Qin First Emperor and the Legalist school, and runs like this:<br />(1) China in the past (Qin) was internally totalitarian, using the bureaucratic techniques of the Legalist school, <BR>(2) &quot;and&quot; (a conjunction) China in the past was also externally aggressive and hegemonistic.<BR>(3) Since China now (CCP) is internally totalitarian, using bureaucratic techniques of the Legalist school, <BR>(4) THEREFORE, China must be hegemonistic and WILL be externally aggressive.<br />That is the central argument, all of his historical and theoretical examples are designed to reinforce that point, and form the basis of his predictions about China in the future. Those examples and predictions are fraught with absurdities themselves, and I'll write a separate review on those.<br />Mosher's argument fails because he accepts premises (1) and (2) as implying that since (3) exists, therefore (4) is implied. This is so because (1) and (2) are conjunctive, not conditional. If the argument was [Since (1), (2)], Mosher could conclude that the [If (3), then (4)]. But he never ever demonstrates that (1) is necessary and sufficient for (2) to exist. Consequently, his entire thesis (thus his entire book) is premised on a fallacy.<br />Were such an analogy accepted, one could argue: (3) Since the Italian government collects taxes and builds roads and stuff, (4) it is therefore trying to avenge the fall of Rome and reestablish the Roman Empire in Europe and the Mediterranean.<br />We can see right away that this is absurd, and it is not a straw-man argument on my part.<br />Consequently, his other techniques of demonization, racial stereotyping and personification, the parsed quote, the anecdote, and the cliche poorly support an already mediocre argument.	2001-11-10
US	45840663	R19ZR6TA3EXH5D	1893554082	708955678	Hegemon: China's Plan to Dominate Asia and the World	Books	2	61	90	N	N	A caricatured society as bogeyman	Mosher's appallingly two-dimensional representation of China sufferes from consistent used techniques that are outright bad. Shoddy evidence is used to support his &quot;hegemon&quot; thesis, which is badly constructed in its own right. That deserved its own review, as does his use of &quot;evidence.&quot;<br />Chapter 1 relies on torturously selective and parsed quotes, unconfirmable and vague anecdotes, and outright cliches. He also relies on the use of personification (&quot;China&quot; this; &quot;China&quot; that) to characterize a huge country with a linguistically, ethnically, and culturally diverse population. His most clear effort is to conclude that China's resentment of US policy is demonstrative support for his thesis that China is the Hegemon. Most countries resent a thing or two about the US, so one can see right off the bat how insufficient that is.<br />Chapter 2 begins his attempt to use an astoundingly self-serving journey through Chinese history to characterize what he absurdly calls China's &quot;cultural DNA.&quot; The despotic Qin First Emperor is the model on which the rest of his thesis implies, detailing the Emperor's internal (Legalism) and external policies as the framework within the conclusions of the book are then cast.<br />Chapter 3 treats Mao's approach to politics and his understanding of history and the Legalist tradition; with Maoism cast as hegemonism (the COMINTERN, for instance). He begins referring to Mao as &quot;Emperor&quot; as a way to show continuity of the PRC with China's imperial past.<br />The weakest section of the chapter is emblematic of the weakness of the book: Mosher's hapless attempt to stylize Mao's military campaigns as ultimately hegemonistic are stretches of the imagination that rely on anecdote and selective history. It takes two to fight a war, and Mosher has a void in place of the motivations of other countries and the context in which many conflicts took place. Ultimately, border conflicts do not a hegemon make. Perhaps the &quot;bloody borders&quot; have more to say about China's numerous neighbors and vague territorial demarcations after WWII, then about China.<br />Mosher attempts to frame all Chinese strategy as implicitly hegemonistic, while providing no evidence of continuity. Instead, he kidnaps Sun Tzu in these crucial moments, and attempts to imply that the absence of any discernable strategy implies it exists; a technique worthy of Michel Foucault. The constant painting of Chinese strategists as ten-feet tall is coupled only by a few parsed quotes from low-level speeches and a single Defense White Paper. Mosher selectively takes Chinese propaganda as literal declarations, when anyone who has read much propaganda from the PRC, USSR, and North Korea knows how comically overblown it always is.<br />In Chapter 4, Mosher attempts to frame Deng as a internal Legalist, and so concludes that his external motivations are therefore purely hegmonistic. His evidence is China's bellicoisty towards Taiwan --which is infinitely complex-- and Mischief Reef. Mosher posits the Mischief Reef facilities as credible installations. Anyone who has seen pictures of them know them to be highly vulnerable structures with poor defenses that could be erased in about two-seconds. Their purpose is more symbolic, and the recent multilateral attitude of China towards the South China Sea does not go far in confirming Mosher's point. <br />Page 75 begins his quagmire into &quot;Great Han Chauvinism.&quot; There is no doubt that nationalism is increasingly used in China as a tool for legitimacy, but there is little evidence --and Mosher certainly provides none with his selective quotations-- that it is premised on Han ethnicity. Quite the contrary, really. That is why by Page 82 he is busily changing the subject to China's military modernization and the Cox report. That report's credibility has suffered greatly since its publication; and it is Mosher's only real attempt at empirical grounding.<br />Chapter 5 is a return to the Qin paradigm, and begins the most absurd discussion on China's path to hegemony. Since the book has so far done absolutely NOTHING to demonstrate China-as-Hegemon, his three scenarios are implausible ruminations, bad anaologies, and argument from possibility, rather than any measure of probability. His whole strategic argument is that China is a threat to the US; the threat to Taiwan is really to an &quot;isolated&quot; Taiwan, which it is not (101-2); therefore an absence of the US is the greatest danger. Yet the absence of the US is used to support a conclusion that the US is threatened. It makes no sense.<br />On 102 he continues the bad immediate inferences by using the '79 China-Vietnam war as indicative of hostile intentions (hence a threat to Taiwan), AFTER he had already drew out how decisively China had been knocked around in that war. That conflict was a failed land invasion against an isolated peasant-based regime; hardly support for the likelihood of an amphibious invasion against a modernized military supported by the US!<br />On 105 he again presents Mischief Reef as a viable military installation. By 106-7, he is positing that border diputes are a calculated strategy, rather than an outcome of complicated relationships and bad policies. He then uses that to support a conclusion of &quot;the ideological justification for Beijing's intervention in the affairs of neighboring states is the unquestioned superiority of the Chinese way of life.&quot; That is a VERY questionable conclusion, given Mosher's decisive lack of support. Pages 110-11 present a bizarrely pessimistic understanding of Korea, given China's (albeit inconsistent) involvement in stabilizing the Korean peninsula. Page 112: &quot;Taiwan is increasingly anxious not to offend China;&quot; hardly a resounding demonstration of hegemony. By 114-15 he is theorizing on the possiblity of China forging an alliance with Russia deeply ignores bilateral history hehimself points out; then he posits a Chinese alliance with JAPAN! Such implausible notions (&quot;emphasizing their cultural affinities&quot; Is he joking?) are presented contrary to the good sense of Japanese policymakers, let alone the history between the two countries. One has to wonder why he works so hard at attempting to confirm his pessimisms with such logically contorted theorizing.<br />Mosher significantly never discusses the behavior of other states and the effects on China. Proliferation and nuclearization are significant issues, yet Mosher is trapped by using anecdotes and bad analogies that are typically thirty of more years old. He seems incapable of assessing China's intentions and capabilities vis-a-vis those of other countries. Such a limited scope is mind boggling given the complexity of his topic.<br />His most plausible treatment is of the demographic expansion into Siberia and elsewhere. This however, hardly justifies his advocation of NMD, outright containment and confrontation, and paranoid hedging. The modernization of China's military is indeed strategically troubling for the US, but not indicative of a trend to be Hegemon that goes back to the Qin. Instead, China's rise is more indicative of industrialism and the remnants of Twentieth Century international power politics. China's current modernization is far more emblematic of China's weaknesses than it is of their strength.  <br />This book is a poor basis --on so many levels-- on which to form conclusions of China's motivations and intentions.	2001-11-10
US	45840663	R3IYZD7A2DPUD6	0833030434	634474217	The Closing and Reuse of the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Useful resource	The ultimate conclusion of this report is that the closing and transfer of the Philadelphia naval should yard ought to be an example/model fo rthe US military in the future. Although not overwhelming, this report is a good introduction to the issue of base restructuring in the evolving structure of the post-Cold War military. As a case study, it has a lot of useful historical and analytical information that could be beneficial for policymakers in other situations.<br />It deals heavily with the procedures of the transfer. Though it does address them significantly, a deeper analysis of the political interests and conflicts surrounding this is as equally useful as any procedural analysis. Helpfully, the report also deals with the court issues that arose out of the case. Since it is a common tactic in these issues, understanding the uses and limits of the court system in these transfers is useful as well.<br />The report lacks an index, but the table of contents is extensive. A thorough bibliography is also included.	2001-11-08
US	45840663	R1SXLDJJ3W5JOZ	0684865238	55645872	Euclid's Window : The Story of  Geometry from Parallel Lines to Hyperspace	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Engaging	This book has been admirably reviewed by previous readers. All I have to add is that it is an engaging, well-written narrative journey through history. The book is fun and very readable, the topics are fascinating; it would make a great gift.	2001-10-21
US	45840663	R3KOKF04CS03WX	0899508235	901219277	Tripoli and the United States at War: A History of American Relations With the Barbary States, 1785-1805	Books	4	11	11	N	N	William Eaton -- the quintessential American	This book is a great start into the study of America's war with Tripoli, its first action outside of the Western Hemisphere. What with current events the way the are, it is useful to study this early conflict as the United States sought to deal with states that only understood the language of force.<br />Using primary source documents, Kitzen introduces us to a cast of characters including President T. Jefferson, Consul William Eaton, Captain Bainbridge, Stephen Decatur, et al. Despite our modern abilities of nearly instantaneous communication, the diplomatic and perception problems the United States had with the Barbary states mirror many of its diplomatic problems today. For instance, the inability of a president to develop a clear policy that is sellable to Congress and the public, and the consequent effect of a division of labor between the military and the diplomatic corps that proceeds on fallacious assumptions and works at cross-purposes. The lack of coherent strategy leads to uncertain objectives, and a tendency to settle for the lowest common denominator. The diplomatic and political travails of the United States' relationships with the Barbary states is illustrative of all of this; thus this book makes an excellent start.<br />The diplomatic fracas and often mediocre leadership of the US Navy's upper ranks prolonged the country's problems with Tripoli (although Europe was incapable of doing anything about the Barbary states for hundreds of years). However, the bravura of men like Stephen Decatur, Commodore Preble, and Consul (later &quot;General&quot;) William Eaton is the stuff of legend. William Eaton in particular is exemplary as the quintessential American, unflagging in the maintenance and protection of his country's honor, and utterly headstrong and independent when working to achieve that goal. The combination of strength of principle as well as sober, pragmatism make him a prime example for those representing our country. His inability to accept the indignity of paying tribute to petty potentates fed his enthusiastic machinations in the war against Tripoli. That the domestic politics of the US allowed the war to end on the terms it ended are also emblematic of American behavior on the world stage.<br />Although Kitzen has written a cogent book that is rarely dull, the major drawback is the limited (though valuable) knowledge we gain from it. Only the perspective of American actors and policies are adequately presented. Despite the heavy involvement of France and England in the region, and their strategic interests had bearing on American policy, Kitzen does not even provide adequate secondary resources on that area, and provides only terse, though useful, analysis of European politics and the consequences for American maritime trade. His main resource is the NAVAL DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE US WARS WITH THE BARBARY POWERS, to which the vast majority of his cites refer.	2001-10-18
US	45840663	R2IM0484C7CNPR	0962770523	161172961	Terrorism & The Constitution: Sacrificing Civil Liberties in the Name of National Security	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A pertinent study	This study is a well-organized, non-hysterical study of the constitutional implications of the fight against terrorism. Detailing FBI efforts to use investigation as a means for restricting political activity (with implications of the First Amendment's protection of legitimate political activity), the book then goes into the legal study of the dealing with controlling the FBI's institutional control-freakness, and judicial tools to accomplish that.<br />An extensive study of the 1996 Anti-terrorism Act is then undertaken, with an emphasis on its constitutional implications. The authors are highly critical of the use of secret evidence against defendants, as well as of Congress' creation of secret courts and courts specializing in &quot;Alien Terrorist Removal.&quot; Understanding these courts is going to be more and more important in the coming years as the US attempts to judicially cope with and respond to the events of September 11.<br />Knowledge of these issues is essential to not only making sure the Government is able to do its job, but also to do so constitutionally. This book is a good start. However, its section on the &quot;nature and scope of terrorist activity&quot; will seem naive and quaint after the traumatic events of WTC.<br />Assessing the success of the 1996 Act will be important in developing legal tools and critiquing the current powers of the FBI in our fight against terrorism.<br />We will see an increase in domestic political spying. It is inevitable. We can counter the dangers of this, and reap its rewards, by ensuring that there are adequate judicial procedures in place wherein individuals can contest illegitimate intrusions by the Government.	2001-09-28
US	45840663	R27LRS5FKU6IXM	083303006X	522689790	Indonesia's Transformation and the Stability of Southeast Asia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Recovering and Transforming	The Asian Meltdown of 97/98 has yielded complicated results for Indonesia. Economic implosion spawned anti-Chinese rioting and the downfall of Suharto.<br />In its wake we have seen serious efforts by the country's political elite to develop viable and legitimate institutions, but political instability and executive incompetence has impaired the psot-Suharto transition. The military has attempted to play a background role, yet it is still vastly influential in civilian politics; the eruptions in Aceh and Borneo, as well as inter-religious and ethnic strife, will make the military more central to the stability of the country as a whole.<br />This RAND report starts with two generalized scenarios for Indonesia's possible future: 1) Successful transition; 2) Centrifugal disintegration.<br />Right off the bat, the study correctly identifies the implications for longterm US policymaking: the stability of the Southeast Asian region will directly impact the extension of China, and consequently impact the meaning of US-China relations. Thus, Indonesia's future not only has vital implications for a huge, disparate country with lots of resources and a huge population, but also implications for geopolitical relations among two great power for years to come.<br />The study gives a brief historical sketch of the political (mis)rule of Wahid, et al; a study of individual separatist movements; possible futures for Indonesia and the consequences for the future of the region as a whole. A brief section on militant separatist movements in Thailand and the Philippines is also included; which is very intelligent since ethnic and religious identities transcend national borders. <br />The book ends with the implication for US policy, and the necessity for US-Indonesian military relations. This is somewhat inadequate, both for the two-dimensionality of the political recommendations, and RAND's institutional habit of considering Air Force concerns first, and the concerns for defense policyas tertiary to this. The involvement of US Army special forces in the country -and the political implications of that- as well as the extreme importance of the US Navy as the Great Balancer in Asian geopolitics, is not treated.<br />Thus study's background work is typical RAND: incisive, concise, and useful. Their recomendations are typically rote and two-dimensional as well.	2001-09-28
US	45840663	R1D7FX9739D8NH	0060977728	855973047	The Shadow University: The Betrayal Of Liberty On America's Campuses	Books	3	9	16	N	N	the students as the penumbrae	It's a good start into the topic of free speech on universities, speech codes, and the intellectual tyranny of &quot;diversity.&quot; It has an abundance of good anecdotes. So far, it seems one only need read the first and second chapters. The first deals with UPenn's &quot;Water Buffalo&quot; fracas; the second does a fairly good job of exploring free speech and the evolution of the SCOTUS on the First Amendment during this century. Apart from that, the book is mainly a bunch of anecdotes designed to evoke the reader's outrage.<br />Things might not be as bad -&quot;tyrannical&quot;- as the skewness of topic implies. However, it is good to be knowledgable of schools willing to protect their own interests through caving to the pressures of bad press and histrionics.<br />Mainly the adherents of the &quot;ethic&quot; of diversity and sensitivity are usually the most marginal -yet secure- and paranoid members of campus. Mostly, universities throw them various bones like Cultural and Womens' Studies programs because they are usually the most vocal. These programs are usually a committee's cobbled hijacking of classes from other departments.<br />The chronicles of this book are of when things get out of control and universities overreact to protect themselves from bad press or liability. Just don't expect much out of your student newspaper, your sociology and anthropology departments, and don't expect a university to look out for your interests if public relations is at stake, and you'll get by just fine.	2001-09-24
US	45840663	R2VVN9ZF3HU0WS	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Courage &amp; &quot;The Hike&quot;	This magnificient book is an absolutely astounding account of the horrors of the Bataan Death March and the mission to rescue the POW survivors. Through the cruel calculus of fighting a two-theatre war, FDR left thousands of Americans trapped on Luzon to suffer a monstrous fate.<br />The book itself is emotionally draining. A riveting account told in a brilliant narrative; exactly as this kind of story should be told. A chapter on the March will end, and then we fast-forward to a chapter on the rescue. Until you read it, you can't understand what a brilliant writing technique this is. First of all, it allows the reader to calm down, after reading of the monstrosities of the Japanese Army. It also keeps the reader from becoming inured to the cruel fates of the POWs. Reading a chapter on the rescue mission gives temporary satisfaction for the feelings of vengeance. Then we return to the horror of the camps. This gives the book a momentum that is inescapable.	2001-09-22
US	45840663	RWFFC1PWEXMSZ	1882926544	13752521	Bonfire of the Humanities: Rescuing the Classics in an Impoverished Age	Books	2	21	95	N	N	Not much of a rescue	The review by Joseph Winkler is magnificient. It is everything this book is not: concise, to the point, eloquent, and relevant.<br /> From the title's cheezy ripoff of &quot;Bonfire of the Vanities&quot; to a bizarre sense of their own grandeur, the authors' collection of essays mainly revolves around a bunch of scholars talking to themselves, the oblations on &quot;academic populism&quot; notwithstanding. Considering it is very long and very expensive, it makes one wonder what the real value is. The authors are more interested in taking potshots at their colleagues than in really saying much about the classics or academia as a whole. It is akin to the recent debacle of ALAS, POOR DARWIN, which is a snide effort at criticizing evolutionary psychology that rests on the 'ad hominem.' This book appears to be an effort to be controversial at parties and committee meetings, rather than an attempt to rescue much of anything.<br />The jacket extols the book as some magnificient tome of an indictment of the university. The self-absorbed epilogue is a great example of what the book is mired in: singling out certain scholars and trying to come up with witty things to say at their expense. Not exactly overwhelming.<br />The problem for these authors is that they really have nothing to say that hasn't been noted extensively -with infinitely more elegance- by books such as Allan Bloom's, THE CLOSING OF THE AMERICAN MIND, or David Ricci's, THE TRAGEDY OF POLITICAL SCIENCE. These are two among many well written books that criticize the state of the university vis-a-vis the humanities, the social sciences, multiculturalism, and diversity. One's time would be far better spent with them, instead of the pretentious BONFIRE OF THE HUMANITIES.	2001-09-19
US	45840663	R152TMC25HVMSR	9812101578	101930159	The Asian Currency Crisis	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent work -- informative and scholarly	As someone who is not an economist, I am in no position to rate Tan's arguments vis-a-vis the positions of other economists. However, as an introduction to the complexities of the 1998 meltdown in Asian economies, this book is first-rate. It is very well organized.<br />Dealing with the crisis chronologically, and country-by-country, Tan is able to illustrate patterns that span the whole event, and unique events within each country. He treats the responses of each country, and does not shirk from providing a sober and often scathing assessment of the attitudes and policy responses of individual countries. His political analyses are just as useful, since the implications of the event have so much to do with the political makeup of individual countries, and their political and financial institutions.<br />Market data is used extensively to support his claim. There is a tremendous and often overwhelming plethora of data. However, if one is just looking for an identification of major patterns and analyses, Tan illustrates this very clearly within his chapters.<br />This book is a great resource for someone who wants access to source data that is relevant to the Asian Meltdown, as well as just a broad introduction to the phenomena that helps a reader trying to understand such a significant event (or series of events).	2001-09-18
US	45840663	RD3GW0YCUEI6Z	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Non-Linearity and Social Change	With the use of viruses as a metaphor for non-linear dynamics in social change, Gladwell has written a very interesting book that forces us to examine our premises for analyzing change. An easy read of an interesting topic; it read very quickly, he is a talented narrative writer with a passion for his subject. I'm a little hesitant to buy into some of the explanatory methodology, but the concepts are interesting. <br />The main concept is that very minute changes in a situation can yield vastly different and widespread consequences. While mostly applying this to social behavior, Gladwell is talking about a mathematical process; but one that needs to involve certain types of people in order to succeed. Although Gladwell is enamored with THE NURTURE ASSUMPTION, which has suffered some well-placed criticism, I found THE TIPPING POINT dovetailes nicely with a book by Jane Jacobs called, THE NATURE OF ECONOMIES.	2001-09-17
US	45840663	R2JJFOU4R4MN12	0700606912	970986798	Presidential War Power	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Congress' Critic	Although some background in constitutional law may be helpful, this book is very readable. Fisher is a thorough scholar, but he is also honest in giving vent to his frustration with Congress' cessation of war power in the modern evolution of Executive-Legislative relations.<br />This book is a great resource for historical and anecdotal information on the constitutional balance of power between the President and the Congress. Well-cited, and with a firm basis in constitutional logic and theory, Fisher develops a clear case that -although it does take on a diatribal flavor at times- does not require academic contortions to be demonstrated. <br />The criticism of the War Powers Act is very powerful, and needs to be understood more broadly in America. The unconstitutionality of the act is one reason it is never seriously invoked by the President or insisted upon by Congress, yet many people still refer to it as the crux for understanding the war powers balance between the Presidency and the Congress.<br />An excellent book for anyone interested in Constitutional allocation of power; useful for students, professors, and the concerned citizen.	2001-09-17
US	45840663	R2C02P8E27CKDP	1566632838	470821021	Faded Mosaic: The Emergence of Post-Cultural America	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Culture of Cultural Oblivion	This is a great book, almost a respite from the culture war histrionics that dominate media and academic discourse. In it Clausen talks about &quot;post-culturalism,&quot; yet another insipid term for which he apologizes at the book's beginning. It's just gotta be like that, I guess. As a good explanation of his thesis, I'll describe the cover:<br />People are going about their business outside a small restaurant, everything's normal. The restaurant is called &quot;Log Cabin Pizza&quot; and specializes in burgers, tacos, and italian beef. The specials are corned beef sandwiches and Cantonese stirfry. Next to the Log Cabin is a store specializing in religious artifacts and trinkets, of &quot;all religions.&quot; Heterogeneity and homogeneity have become the same thing.<br />Clausen has an excellent critique of multiculturalism's theoretical permutations, and its significance for our society. He sort of downplays the idea of any sort of genuine &quot;culture war,&quot; however, saying that cultures --and the very term culture-- are just methods to conveniently construct the present, and genuinely signify little in America. He is rather scathing talking about some of the Indian (he insists on calling them Indians) reconstructions of the past to &quot;preserve their culture.&quot; All in all a great book for people interested in understanding the paths of American social development, and for those looking for a critique of the culture-vulture flame wars.<br />Another nice thing is that the book is short. It is not some plodding monstrosity of an author's effort to demonstrate he is well read. Instead, Clausen has written a clear and concise book that does not fall into the short book trap of polemics.	2001-09-17
US	45840663	R2HJWZJ0R858SE	0691004153	532733532	Taking the Constitution Away from the Courts	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Moderately Coherent, Dubiously Argued	Fascinated by constitutional law, I approached Tushnet's book interested in a stand against the notion of judicial review, a central tenet of American jurisprudence. Tushnet's approach, although fleshed out, is not particularly useful to those interested in the theoretical underpinnings of judicial review.<br />Instead, the book maintains a fairly consistent position that is dubiously supported throughout. Through inconsistent use of caselaw, and little analysis of the legal reasoning of the cases he cites, Tushnet does create an comprehensible position against judicial review, but it is not particularly well argued. Just the fact of being against judicial review does not make for a usable book. The exercise of judicial power does not alone invalidate judicial review as a doctrine. The serious constitutional, historical, logical, and even utilitarian analysis necessary for developing a persuasive opinion is absent from the work.<br />He typically falls on attempting to undermine the pro-judicial review position as a method of making his case, but it is untenable. Criticizing extreme contemporary positions and labelling them as liberal (read: 'elitist'), does not make the case. By taking quotes out of context, he is moderately successful at creating the image of a sustainable position, but the grand scheme fails. He arduously quotes Madison, after severely paring the quotes to fit his point, but it is not enough. The index does not even cite Alexander Hamilton once; there is no rigorous treatment of the 'Federalist Papers,' the most succint and thorough exploration of US Constitutional theory; there is no sustained theoretical analysis of the powers of government and the utility of republicanism, and the nature of separated and mixed powers.<br />Essentially, he is making an argument for populism using a populist technique: &quot;the liberals support judicial review because they think you're too dumb to decide for yourself, therefore judicial review is bad.&quot; This is hardly sufficient for making a defensible argument with such radical overtones. Tushnet's approach is reminiscent of William Jennings Bryan's majoritarianism, and is certainly bryanesque in its idealistic appeals and its logical inadequacies. <br />With severely questionable positions on constitutional amendment, which he supports only by criticising the extremes of his opposition as arrogant, he ignores the whole theoretical underpinning of the amendment process of Article V. He then presents some appalingly idealistic support of the populist majority alteration of the Constitution. Any first-year political science student studying state and local politics knows what cumbersome bludgeons state constitutions are. Opinion is still out on popular referenda, and how effective they are at both serving the public good and representing the popular will. I suggest taking a look at the monstrously huge Indian constitution to appreciate the brevity of the American constitution and its demanding amendment process.	2001-09-04
US	45840663	RRNKCHGE766PH	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Greatest...	The greatest American novel of the last half of the twentieth century. I've read it several times. I'll read it many more. One of the funniest books I have ever read, the sad part is that Toole committed suicide when he couldn't find a publisher. It eventually won the Pullitzer Prize. The anti-hero Ignatius Reilly wanders through the New Orleans Quarter in the sixties into and out of various absurd situations that all transpire into a set of hilarious coincidences. The machinations of the -slightly- more normal characters are all advanced or undermined as the incomparable Ignatius undertakes his own bizarre schemes. Sometimes almost poignantly sad, yet consumed by hilarity, this book is one of the Great American Novels.	2001-08-26
US	45840663	R20RSSEGL0FJBQ	0140440259	773663287	The Three Musketeers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quintessential adventure novel	Although MONTE CRISTO will always remain my favorite Dumas novel, THREE MUSKETEERS is a veritable classic in adventure novels. I haven't read any other translations yet, but Sudley does excel at delivering the witty banter of the four friends and Dumas' ironic descriptions of their behavior. The subversion of Felton is probably the most deftly written portion of the book, but to each his own. The fact of the matter is that it is a fantastic, witty adventure novel that can be enjoyed just for the sake of enjoyment.	2001-08-26
US	45840663	R2YDIRN1XALM0D	0761519688	405735166	bin Laden : The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	4	28	34	N	N	Staggering Amount of Data	Whatever can be collated into a bio of Osama Bin Laden is in here. An exploration of the mind of terrorism. A lot of history on the Iranian-Sudanese axis that resisted the US-UN in Africa and its activities on the Horn of Africa. An almost exausting amount of data on various terrorist actors and their interrelationships. Also dealt with extensively is the networking process of using legitimate economic development and humanitarian aid organizations to create a shadow economic network to pass money and materiele around. Also the legitimate activities of these organizations can serve propagandistic purposes. The book also details the involvement of Pakistan's ISI in the development of terrorist camps and networks; as well as Pakistan's role in the evolution of the Taliban in Afghanistan. The book is more than an attempt to biographize Osama bin Laden. It is a study of terrorist networks in general, how they exist and survive, and how the operate.	2001-08-26
US	45840663	R3TAFLR6FJXJCZ	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fine Narration and Scholarship	Larson does an excellent job of both telling a compelling story and demystifying the Scopes trial. He really brings a systematic approach to his own study of events, and his unadorned narration lets the events speak for themselves. The posturing on both sides of the education issue, the opportunism of the town, and the carnivale` of the whole thing makes this book a compelling read. The Darrow-Bryan clash is really well-written. Equally important is Larson's treatment of the Scopes trial's evolving vision in America's sociopolitical milieu, and the political baggage of both sides that has elevated the trial into a mythical contest. He pillories much of the existing mythology and literature that has been built around the Scopes trial. An interesting study in American toleration for ideas, for both sides of the issue.	2001-08-26
US	45840663	R2LPBPDYMO9JUA	0874772753	502870152	Architects Of Fear	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Good introduction to paranoid conspiracies	I believe this book came out in 1983. Although a reprint would be out of line, an updated edition (or a sequel) would be useful, after the explosion in conspiracy theorizing what with the Internet, the Clintons, and the nineties in general.<br />A fairly quick summation of conspiracy theory positions and slants. The exploration of the origins of conspiracy theories is fairly well-done. The chapter on Adam Weishaupt and the Illuminati is pretty good. All in all, Johnson tries to grapple with too much information, dealing with the origins of the most well-known theories as well as the sociology of the Ameriacn conspiracy crowd, as well as his own visceral responses to the politics of the Reagan era.<br />Johnson may be too quick and simplistic to conclude what the motivation of this phenomenon is. It is a good introduction to many of the recurring themes that dominate conspiracy literature. I recommend (getting from the library -don't buy it- and) taking a look at Jim Marrs' ridiculous, &quot;Rule By Secrecy.&quot; It could essentially be a textbook in the psuedo-scholarship techniques behind the foolishness and fraudulence of the conspiracy theory industry.	2001-08-17
US	45840663	R2C14V8VL5K3VH	0844740500	603508749	The Ethics of Human Cloning	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Ethics of Human Cloning	I was astonished at Kass's mastery of both the issue and the writing as opposed to Wilson. James Q. Wilson's essays simply don't compare in quality to the time and thought that obviously went into Kass's. Although I don't agree with everything Kass puts forward, he does an excellent job of centering the issue on moral questions (distincting &quot;if/when&quot; and &quot;whether&quot;). Although initially I was turned off by Kass's hyperbolic rants against unconventional families, when he finishes establishing his conservative credentials and gets down to the issue at hand, he makes compelling arguments against cloning.	2001-08-17
US	45840663	R2Y25PL5U0OMXD	0415111307	36929673	Japan and the Enemies of Open Political Science (Nissan Institute/Routledge Japanese Studies)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Interesting dabbles	I have very mixed feelings about this book. It deserves three-and-a-half stars. On the one hand we have a fascinating polemic touching on all the essential realms of modern thought. On the other hand, we have a political indictment that suffers from an excess in name dropping and citation packing along with an untamed fascination with Edward Said.<br />At whatever measure, the book is provocative in a number of ways. It really only has to do with Japan on its periphery. In reality, it (fleetingly) touches on Japan's political uniqueness and its (slight) place in the history of thought in the grand scheme of an indictment of logical positivism/economic rationalism in the social sciences. At times an impassioned defense of the empirical method, and the 'changeableness' of truth; at other times the book takes on an almost 'ad hominem' tone towards rationalism to the detriment of the work as a whole. The book contributes, in my opinion, a valuable critique of the social sciences, and attempts to defend political science methodology from the positivism of political economy.<br />Williams ranges from Kant, to Marx, to Said, to Saussere, to Chomsky, to Nietzsche, to Mill, to Foucault, to Francis Ford Coppola, to Alan Bloom, to Dewey, etcetera, etcetera. He pulls off this journey at times, with interesting insight into the place of thought in social science disciplines. Other times, however, he becomes enmired in demonstrating how many different thinkers he can namedrop in a paragraph.<br />It could be a good book (maybe only as a reference) for an intermediate course in scientific method and/or the history of philosophy. It is almost a compendium of philosophical positions. Although he slants his descriptions of some schools of thought, he is good at presenting arguments undermining many dogmatic perspectives. His critique of structuralism, post-structuralism, and political correctness is excellent. His chapter on linguistics is a little garbled, but interesting nonetheless.<br />At the beginning is a glossary that is useful for understanding Williams' position, although the definitions are almost comically self-serving. He is relentless in his citations, with a large section of endnotes. Helpfully, he includes a bibliography of all the works cited.	2001-08-17
US	45840663	RTP81CTUOLZZN	0333753666	107083852	Diplomatic Theory from Machiavelli to Kissinger (Studies in Diplomacy)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Fairly interesting collection	A fairly interesting collection of essays on diplomatic theorists of the modern era. Excellent sourcing and useful lists for further reading are included at the end of each essay. The biographical introductions for each of the writers come across with moderate success; the essays do not have the room to adequately outline the lives of these thinkers, and some of the causation and chronology seems a little shaky at times.<br />The usually ponder what the individual thinker was best known for. This does not mean that the writing will turn out to always be interesting. The best essays are those on Machiavelli, Gucciardini, Richelieu, and Kissinger. One of the greatest pitfulls is the lack of discussion -excepted by a brief treatment in the Kissinger piece- of the linkage between diplomacy and military policy.<br />The usefulness of this book can best be summed up as quick overviews of the theorists' perspectives on diplomatic activity. The essays' conclusions ought to be read first, and then a quick skim of the essays themselves. The citing is excellent, and thorough. The sources for further reading are very useful.	2001-08-14
US	45840663	R16TDBAJMEZ2JN	0300083408	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	106	111	N	N	Journalistic, but thorough	Rashid is successful in collating a massive amount of information into a well-organized, readable book. Although at times journalistic, with glib analysis at the end of his quasi-historical recitation, this book gives a thorough accounting of all the players and interests that have brought Afghanistan to where it is today. It is useful as a single volume that recounts the rise of the Taliban that is concise and clear. Rashid is a veteran journalist who has covered Afghanistan for years. His connections and interviews from all aspects of Afghani politics and society give the book a depth that as been hard for other books to accomplish.<br />Sources and appendices are excellent. The organization of the book is in three main parts: 1) 'History of the Taliban Movement,' which is a useful recounting of the Taliban's rise in a chronological fashion. The five chapters each represent one year; 2) 'Islam and the Taliban' explores the origin and nature of the Taliban in thought and practice in the context of other Muslim movements, how it is organized, how it functions in making decisions, and how it administers policy socially and militarily; 3) 'The New Great Game' treats all of the international actors' behaviors and motivations, and the consequences for Afghanistan.<br />Although his perspectives of all of the relevant actors -the Taliban, the anti-Taliban factions, the UN, regional countries, Western powers, oil companies, Russia- are undeniably put forth for the reader, they only enhance the educational value of the book. Rashid is highly successful in imparting the motivations and values of all the ethnic and religious tensions in Afghani society, and their interlinkages (and the consequent perspectives and involvement of foreign nations with the various contending forces). The paradox of the Taliban's Pashtuni ethnic primacy and cosmic vision of Islam is treated quite well.<br />Rashid also gives an almost too thorough treatment of the Unocal/Bridas competition over natural gas fields and pipeline politics in Central Asia. The linkages of international politics and the effects on and of the Afghani civil war is outlined as well. The chapter on Osama bin-Laden is excellent. No actor is spared from Rashid's critique. He is very successful at presenting the motivations and worldview of all the different players. There are some points worth quibbling about, such as an adequate presentation of who makes foreign policy decisions in Iran, but the overall effect is successful.<br />The &quot;New Great Game&quot; may or may or may not turn out to be as impactful as Rashid puts forth. How relevant power competition may be in the region is something that will be played out over time, depending on the energy resources of the region, and the region's ability to achieve some modicum of political stability. Robert A. Manning's critique of this is useful [see: &quot;The Asian Energy Factor&quot; (2000)]. Rashid does not hesitate to illustrate the linkages between the CIA and the ISI, and the intendant consequences of Pakistani machinations and American involvement and indifference in Afghanistan over the years.<br />Rashid does not overly dwell on making predictions, but a couple of his points are useful: the backlash of Taleban politics into Pakistan; and the internal fragmentation and implosion of the Taleban will probably be the source of its decline, rather than a civil uprising or sudden military success of the Northern Alliance.<br />I would hesitate before labelling Rashid as some biased, &quot;anti-Talibaner;&quot; anyone who is literate and concerned with human welfare, Muslim or non-Muslim, has every right to be appalled by the situation in Afghanistan.	2001-08-14
US	45840663	R26QZB1W30R7GK	0684839199	419002241	Alexander Hamilton, American	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A worthy introduction	Brookheiser's approach to Hamilton is well-suited to those of us who knew only a bare outline or caricature of the man before. However, previous reviews were right in pointing out a tendency to gloss over events. What does emerge, though, is a picture of this important founding father in his time. His impact is undeniable, and it is more than arguable that that impact has done much good for the nation. Probably the most interesting piece on the Hamilton-Burr duel, though, can be found in 'Founding Brothers.'	2001-08-02
US	45840663	R2PNMGF03VPOXT	0140072187	527630151	Chickenhawk	Books	5	1	1	N	N	No Arguments	My dad bought this for me in junior high. Since then I have probably read it a dozen times. Probably the most powerful book I have ever read. Mason was a Huey pilot in Vietnam. It has been called the greatest book about the Vietnam war, and I have never found cause to argue with that.	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R3FOHBUVABWSV0	0300060505	340199650	What Johnny Shouldnt Read: Textbook Censorship in America	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Essential for Understanding Real Revisionism	Anyone with curiosity about education policy in this country should immediately read this book. It is a study on how nearly invisible bodies of decision makers shape textbooks to their attitudes. She deals mainly with the state boards of education in Texas in California. One reason for this is that since they are the most populous states, publishers are more responsive to the attitudes and revisions of these two boards. Another reason is that since the political culture in the two states is so different, she can hardly be accused of anything other than excellent scholarship. The end result is that apart from the nature of political attitudes in these two regions, there is more than enough willingness to impose revisionist standards on what is eventually taught in the schools.<br />An excellent, and at times chilling, study of a nearly opaque process in our democracy; where views and attitudes of the current political climate are imposed on history, to the deteriment of history and of children.	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R9L0BJNAABLAZ	0425176428	539869630	What If?: The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Counterfactual History	Really great stuff on counterfactual history. I'm developing an interest in the techniques of political forecasting, and am studying different methods in logic and statistics. To me, counterfactual historical theories are an important way to build into one's mind healthy limits on what one is willing to say about the future. <br />Probably the best essay is from a Montana State professor on &quot;what ifs&quot; in the Cold War. Some of it is positively chilly, while at the same time putting us into the mentality of the Soviets. It is a useful reminder that not all events are caused by rational calculation, an point made by Stratfor which it ignores quite often.<br />One of my favorites is the essay on the Mongol withdrawal from Europe. The scourge of the Mongols on history is commonly forgotten, but still influences cultural mindsets in Russia, China, the Caucasus, and Central Asia, and I think irreparably damaged the most enlightened and moderate movements in Islam. Obviously this has enormous impact on our understanding of these cultures today. The &quot;Lost Order&quot; piece is also excellent. I think Ambrose did the D-Day &quot;what if&quot; sequence, which is also good. <br />The varying styles of the authors also informs each piece. In between major essays are little one-page blurbs that are just as provacative as a 20-page piece on Napoleon. I recommend the paperback version. It still has good quality paper and typeset. Also, for those curious, take a look at: 'Counterfactual Thought Experiments in World Politics' (1996); edited by Philip E. Tetlock and Aaron Belkin	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R15VZZCTEFQIVW	0890968624	194143300	Games Advisors Play: Foreign Policy in the Nixon and Carter Administrations (Joseph V. Hughes Jr. and Holly O. Hughes Series on the Presidency and Leadership)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Study of Internecine Political Fights	This is a remarkable book. It approaches the social psychology of the decision making process in comparative case study form. Since the dynamics, personal and structural, in the Nixon and Carter administrations were so different, it is a useful education in the methodology of waging internecine feuds.	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R1TVG88K05IXGF	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	End of Empire	Some people hate this book, but what they really detest is the antihero protaganist, Fowler, a jaded and decaying British journalist observing a naive American, Pyle, slowly immersing himself in Vietnam. Written in the fifties, it can be seen as a prophetic symbol of the futility of our Southeast Asia policies, as well as an indictment of latent American messianic romanticism. The two characters are apt symbols of his nation, although peripheral characters should also be thought of as relevant when considering the novel's characterization of national characters. The toothless collapse of the European imperialistic mission, and the beginning of the end of ours.	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R1PUPPRRGQ3067	0700609709	611925529	Republican Empire: Alexander Hamilton on War and Free Government (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Government -- Free &amp; Strong	An exploration of the various syntheses of Hamilton's political thought, and its meaning for our institutions. Complex, as was Hamilton's mind, it is a necessary work for understanding the contributions of Hamiltonian principles beyond the manufactured absurdity of the Jefferson-Hamilton pseudo-morality play.	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R3J8OX4SVQZD6U	0679603409	619985996	The Nature of Economies (Modern Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Dialogue Loop	I highly recommend this book. I read it in nearly one sitting. The structure of the book is Platonic dialogue/'My Dinner with Andre.' The conversations of five friends are the entirety of the book. It deals with complex philosophical ideas on economies and natural systems in a highly readable way. The book centers on the idea of biomimicry, in which natural phenomena are imitated (engineered) in such a way that using natural principles creates efficiency. Essentially it is the notion that there are basic principles to which all systems naturally adhere, and understanding those systems can help us frame economics more rationally and sustainably. Jacobs discusses notions of positive-feedback loops, negative-feedback stops, dynamic stability. All this within the idea that evolutionary processes, interdependencies, and natural tensions and tendencies are the basis of economic interaction.	2001-07-19
US	45840663	R29HMBE65HIVL7	031223578X	34321830	The Russian Nuclear Shield From Stalin To Yeltsin: The Cold War and Beyond (St Antony's Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Excellent scholarship	Moving chronologically, Mathers develops a clear pattern to each chapter that allows for quick comparative conclusions about Soviet political responses to ABMs and the overall strategy of Soviet-US relations. The conclusions to her chapters provide excellent, concise summations to the material just presented. She presents clear, inductive links from Soviet/Russian ABM policy to the general domestic economic and political situations, and subsequent reactions to US policy.<br />She extensively uses Soviet military literature of the periods to help illustrate the political status of ABM policy of the time. She could have perhaps included more direct quotes from primary sources, but it is understandable that the brevity of the book would suffer.<br />One can draw some interesting parallels between Soviet ABM debates over the economic and strategic consequences with the current US experience. An excellent resource for anyone interested in the NMD debate. Mathers provides us with excellent, clear, and concise scholarship on the topic. Her ability to draw linkages between Soviet politics and ABM policy without bogging down in various ruminations is especially effective.	2001-07-16
US	45840663	R3ZPSKTB965NY	1560989416	634699765	The Mind of War: John Boyd and American Security	Books	3	37	48	N	N	Introduction to an interesting man	No doubt about it, John Boyd's contributions to American military thought and technology deserve to be heralded. What's interesting is that a creative thinker is seen as so remarkable in the military that he deserves such heraldry. Creative, flexible, intuitive thinkers are prevalent throughout society; even if they don't know it. That John Boyd is so singular and unique over a 40-year period points to some very serious problems in the military. The synthesis of ideas from multiple disciplines, organic responses to management and decision making, and analogical reasoning are not sudden innovations. That John Boyd was so unique deserves recognition; however, that he was so unique is really disappointing too.<br />As for the book itself: it could be shorter. It is redundant. It is hagiographic of Boyd. In a way the presentation is in such stark terms of goodguy/badguy in the recounting of bureaucratic wars that the central points of Boyd's multi-dimensional analysis seem violated. The author is more of a technical expert than a sociological historian, so his recounting of the Military Reform Movement was severely lacking. He does not adequately present the position of Boyd's oppositiong, only to make them appear as greedy bufoons. The final chapters outlining Boyd's presentations are the most useful. However, he keeps returning to the same points continuously, perhaps with some alterations in terminology, that makes the reading get laborious.	2001-07-12
US	45840663	R2I5CNZSUP3G6G	0765606291	241315494	Central Asia and the New Global Economy: Critical Problems, Critical Choices	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Lots of Information -- Limited Perspective	The economic perspectives of this book's essays see globalization as consisting of capital investment, FDI, oil politics, manipulation of resources into exports, and macroeconomic stimulation. Hence, it is a lot of 'old economy' mentalities that appear new because of the relatively new autonomy of Central Asian countries. Import and export policies are not necessarily indicative of a &quot;new global economy,&quot; having been an essential aspect of economics for millenia. Although economic liberalization is paid a lot of attention and lip-service, statist policies are presented as the primary approaches to economic development. There is little discussion of microeconomic phenomena and the importance of domestic economic stimulation. Environmental issues don't merit a single reference in the index. Political liberalization is also dutifully ignored.<br />Investment in the oil infrastructure is heavily emphasized, but the viability of real and substantial amounts of oil in the ground has yet to be proven in Central Asia. Access to viable markets is also dubious for that reason.<br />Real economic vitality in Central Asia will ultimately hinge less on building airports and pipelines than on stimulating open and viable economic activity among the domestic populations there. Economic interaction of a self-sustaining nature is a far better path to political reform, political stability, viable tax bases (rather than dependencies on FDI), and satisfaction of demographic conflicts.<br />That is the essence of the new, global economy. A sense entirely missed by this book.	2001-06-26
US	45840663	R3BEQILKW35M8A	0275973522	388635881	Triumphs and Tragedies of the Modern Presidency: Seventy-Six Case Studies in Presidential Leadership	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Sweeping array of anecdotes and analyses	Short, well-categorized case studies from serious analysts are presented in this extensive book as a sort of beginner's manual for a new president. Any student of executive politics, or american politics in general, will find this book useful for its lessons and as a catalyst for further study. The assessments are presented seriously and soberly, but do not belabor points and weigh the reader down with pedantry.<br />Developing a coherent first &quot;Hundred Days,&quot; managing Congressional relations, approaching foreign policy and foreign relations, developing economic policies, forming political consensus, and not enmiring the presidency in disputes to the detriment of core goals, are all topics addressed by categories. Different presidencies from FDR on are used in the case studies to ascertain success and/or failure.	2001-06-26
US	45840663	R2I2IHSKY7P1ZH	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	2	0	0	N	N	&quot;...not with a bang, but a whimper.&quot;	Having just rewatched SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, and desperately needing some low-brow entertainment, I bought HANNIBAL. Although Harris can be compelling in parts, he allows minor characters to take up loads of space with their banal babbling, while Starling's major nemeses are two-dimensional caricatures. I guess the goal is to make us feel 'alright' with their gruesome ends -we become participatory in their deaths- but they are so ludicrous that they are not particularly interesting (Krendler, Verger, etc). Basically, everyone in the the book is crazy as hell, which sort of takes away from Lecter's monstrosity, making him less interesting. Starling's boring Elektra complex compounds the dullness. Mind-numbing lists of Lecter's effete purchases give the novel a feel of bland inertia. Then some icky guy dies an icky death, and it hardly seems notable. <br /> Grammatical errors and typos abound. Apparently Dell editors are either cowards or clueless. Either way they should be fired. Harris' style at the beginning of each chapter is particularly annoying: each introductory being short, hapless fragments in the style of a screenplay. Incomplete sentences simply denote bad writing. He tries to engage the reader as the observer (&quot;Now we are walking up the steps where blah blah blah&quot;) but it all falls flat and the tense gets all screwed up. The narrative is disrupted with such attempts at flair, and the scenes are subsequently poorly constructed. I got the feeling like he was writing this novel in order to make a bundle of the movie, and the fluidity of the prose suffered as a consequence. This makes the flow of the narrative very tedious.<br />The conclusion of the book elevates Starling and Lecter to a mythic inhumanity. It is so melodramatic that you feel as if you have lost all touch with the characters. Harris adores his creations too much, and it kills the story in the end. I give this book two stars because I'm not one of the die-hard fans who has had his hopes and dreams crushed by this silly book; plus the movie  managed to be even dumber.	2001-06-18
US	45840663	RMF99BJTU8IQH	0312224370	49245412	The Asian Energy Factor: Myths and Dilemmas of Energy, Security and the Pacific Future	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Paucities and Scarcities	An excellent work from one of our most important scholars on Asia. Riddled with numbers and graphs, the book is still readable for those just encountering energy politics. The referencing is also excellent, and allows one to delve further into the topic. <br />His initial chapters on environment/pollution and population growth/demand, and scarcity are important by themselves. Understanding the differences between a scarcity of resources and political limitations or economic bottlenecks on those resources is essential to being able to really forecast the strategic environment. Consequently, the time Manning spends belittling Paul Ehrlich and the Club of Rome is well spent. The country analyses are also very useful, and give one a sense not only of the economics of energy, but of the two way impact of energy and political relationships between countries. With our noble leaders beginning to evoke various fears about Asia, this is very important in understanding the nature and degree of &quot;emerging threats.&quot;<br />Manning might be too bold in divorcing extending military interests with growing energy demands, but it is worth reading the book to develop an opinion on the subject.<br />I also recommend checking out the Energy Information Administrations's website, which Manning used heavily. It was of great use to me in a recent project: [...]<br />Also useful is the cover piece of the January 2001 'Atlantic Monthly.' The piece, &quot;The New Old Economy: Oil, Computers, and the Reinvention of the Earth,&quot; in helping advance perspectives of the oil industry. See: [...]	2001-05-22
US	45840663	RH3ENN2UKTKXB	0520223012	266017875	Terror in the Mind of God: The Global Rise of Religious Violence (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Amazing access to sources	...This book is most fantastic in the access Juergensmeyer had to these people. His work is based on original interviews with the thinkers and actors who produce terrorism; this includes Jewish militants, Irish Protestants, Christian Identity types, Pro-Lifers, Sikh militants, and Hamas. He identifies common sociological themes behind all of these various movements that come to see violence as an acceptable means to achieving their religious ends. His second section, which is just a number of hypotheses on these linkages, may be the most open to criticism, but the whole process is valuable none the less. One comes away with a sense of the intelligence and fortitude of these actors. Understanding the internal logic of their cosmic systems is one of the most important aspects one can derive from this book.<br />Getting away from common conceptions of these types of people as &quot;irrational&quot; and &quot;crazy&quot; is the first step in stemming their impact on innocent people.<br />I also recommend taking a skim through Marc Gopin's, &quot;Between Eden and Armageddon,&quot; though it is long and redundant.	2001-05-22
US	45840663	R2IHDJTPHV1MR6	1570032777	600823159	Sir John Fisher's Naval Revolution (Studies in Maritime History)	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Politics of Technological Change	An interesting book on the politics of defense spending and its relationship with grand strategy and domestic politics. Tedious at times, and often unbalanced as to proving the grand point and instead focusing on partisan minutae, this book is still interesting to consider; you have to commend Lambert for his exaustive research behind the common assumptions. He did major work in the primary sources.<br /> The point is that much of the arms race theory before WWI is not genuinely correct. The motivations for the growth and posturing of the British Navy prior to WWI had less to do with fear of Germany -although using that fear was an effective tool- than with a naval revolution by the Admiralty's First Lord, Sir John Fisher. It is an intersting foray into the dynamics of defense spending politics, and how that ultimately impacts capabilities and strategy.	2001-04-19
US	45840663	R306CN9SVNDGCR	0684869004	469521034	Plague Time: How Stealth Infections Cause Cancer, Heart Disease, and Other Deadly Ailments	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Provocative Ideas -- Speculative Execution Thus Far	I was initially very excited to read this book; and it does identify some serious problems with current perspectives on the origins of disease. If anything, the best thing about the book is that it identifies how much we don't know. His method of filling in the gaps, however, is unsatisfying.<br />&quot;May, might, could, if&quot; are the words that characterize the intellectual rigor of this book. It is a popularized, speculative foray, that uses conditionals and anecdotes to fill the void of substance.<br />His work is a worthy pursuit. I won't belittle the importance of exploring all the possiblities of this idea of microbial origins for many diseases. This gives us a new realm of exploration in an area that has been intent on unravelling genetic predispositions. Any serious work in this area, however, needs to transcend an inter-disciplinary argument of genes v. environment/microbes and understand the complex interrelationships of all of these factors. This book does not contribute to that. It is the interaction of predispositions and external conditions (toxins, microbes, what have you) that is important to understand.<br />There is much in the book that is interesting. It is wasted, however, with the author's attempt at flair. His attempts to analyse terrorist motivations and science fiction literature are digressions from the supposed point of the book. The attempt was to be another, &quot;Guns, Germs, and Steel&quot; meets, &quot;The Lexus and the Olive Tree.&quot; The effect, however, wastes time and and leads one to wonder at the insubstantiality of his work in general.<br />It's an important area, but not that great of a book.	2001-02-05
US	45840663	R2H948R9W5SLBS	1579060242	419841919	China Debates the Future Security Environment	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Stupendous	Beyond ranking this fantastic work, there isn't much I can add that previous reviewers haven't admirably covered. It is necessary for our country to understand the needs that motivates the calculations Pillsbury illustrates in his book. It is essential for the American debate about our relationship with China to include texts such as these, which highlight important concerns for Americans, but transcend the current dichotomy of right-wing paranoia and left-wing romanticism toward China.<br />While Pillsbury's book is devoted to a very specific topic, the tone and quality of his work helps illustrate China's foreign policy communities in ways that are absent in the sterotyped visions of China usually constructed. Instead of having to fall in with one or the other viewpoint that is more an argument about domestic ideology than about China, we ought to remember that it is the clarity of our vision that is the most important technique for ensuring American security. Public relations gestures of saber-rattling or apologia accomplish just the obvious. That is why careful attention paid to work such as Pillsbury's book makes us better off in the long run.	2001-01-31
US	45840663	R1XLH9UISJV2IB	0738202754	673069551	Greenspan : The Man Behind Money	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good Introduction...	Definitely a good introduction to Greenspan's life. Just when I thought Martin would end up being guilty of hagiography he pointed out Greenspan's professional misjudgements. He could have, however, included more critical perspectives from other parties beyond quoting Proxmire and Senate confirmation hearings. The whole Ayn Rand thing was treated very well, since most people hear about Greenspan's association with her clique and immediately start conspiracy theorizing. He dispells that sort of thing quite well, establishing Greenspan's (ironic) independent identity from that consortium.<br />Also upholding the book's solid credentials as an introductory are concise historical surveys of the central bank controversy throughout US history; as well as the Fed's position in politics under individual chairmen; also the &quot;Asian Contagion&quot; is given a respectable treatment without belaboring the complexities. Martin explores the Fed's mechanics as well as he can without driving the audience crazy.<br />Despite thorough endnotes, one thing it lacked -insignificant to most people- is a general list of sources and references at the end of the book. This sort of thing would be useful to those of us who want a more in-depth taste of financial history in general and the Federal Reserve in particular. <br />Good book, though.	2001-01-27
US	45840663	R31EOZ0NBJKR2O	0802150837	676781547	The Wretched of the Earth	Books	2	70	127	N	N	Discomfiting and Authoritarian	I wasn't enthusiastic about this book to begin with. Maybe that made me less receptive to Fanon's ideas. I can see why disconsolate university types would get into Fanon, he can dish out the bitter slogans with ease. He does not, however, illustrate that the ends he wishes to achieve with the clarity that could justify his violent means. Thus I see this book as philosophically suspect.<br />Romanticizing the rural mass and then marginalizing their ability to coherently rule themselves, Fanon justifies propagandistic manipulation, nationalized education and infrastructure, marginalization of ethnicity and cultural diversity; essentialy what he advocates is the construction of a technocracy that garbs itself in &quot;revolutionary&quot; euphemisms and uses the rural quantity as a check on the independence and economic and educational flexibility of urbanized elites. My professor saw my perspective as skewed, and perhaps it is. <br />At any rate, given my suspicions about the ends Fanon sees as his structure, I consequently have contempt for his reasoning enunciating violence. First, he eloquently and passionately illustrates the techniques of imperialism in subjugating the colonized. This is his book's greatest strength; however, many readers enamored of this aspect seem incapable of critiquing the rest of the book. <br />From his economic and social analysis of colonialism, Fanon is able to racialize a state of conflict between the oppressed and oppressor. This constructs social identity in a way that is useful for his arguments for violence. What would be called indiscriminate terrorism in many contexts becomes logically justified by Fanon's racial construct. It is the artifice of identity based on race that allows the justification of violence perpetrated on the basis of being black or white.<br />Some would argue that despite Fanon's racialization of the conflict, Fanon always sees it as an economic relationship. Thus, his justification of attack on the urban black and the acceptance of the sympathetic white makes sense. Others would argue that this is just a bone thrown to the theorists that ultimately means nothing to the application of violence. I, however, see it as a verbose argument for terrorism committed on black people without removing the racism from his theory. In essence it is a smokescreen for calling the urban black pursuing economic security as an &quot;oreo.&quot; Thus terrorism committed on the independent shopkeeper is an attack on the proxy of the white man; while the white sympathizer is a propaganda tool.<br />In essence, Fanon's theory is a justification for violence based on race; and for the control of people through propaganda and terror while spouting democratic themes. In practice we see this sort of technique used by regimes that prey on their own people and finance their repression with drug smuggling and corruption (re: Myanmar, FARC, the Taleban).<br />If you read Fanon and find this sort of thing making sense, take a good long look in the mirror. It is important to at least be honest with yourself before becoming enmired in hypocrisy. Fanon clearly despised himself; unfortunately he transferred that emotion onto an entire society.	2001-01-27
US	45840663	R1Q57JJYSLNT4N	0688149553	621219797	Mash: A Novel About Three Army Doctors	Books	2	4	13	N	N	No 'Catch-22'	First book I've read where the movie was better than the original book. Don't get me wrong, there were some extremely funny scenes. However, Hooker just isn't that good of a writer. It shows, as the book gets better as it goes along.<br />Hooker employs that basics of black comedies about war: ironic repitition of monikers, and presentation of absurdities with a stark descriptive style that highlights the absurd. That's all very nice, but there is no real common plot thread throughout the book. Characters appear and then disappear for sixty pages, so the gags at their expense aren't as funny; since we lose a sense of how uptight they are.<br />Buy the movie with Donald Sutherland, and read Joseph Heller if you want a great black comedy about war.	2001-01-24
US	45840663	RSQ1D8622QREV	0312058365	583308895	The Coming War With Japan	Books	4	8	16	N	N	Too Bad It's out of Print	Even though this book is getting older, it's worth finding it at your library and giving it a read. The Friedmans see the world returning to more classic, zero-sum balance-of-power relationships in the post-Cold War context. This is even the case as regional, multilateral, and global international institutions develop. Since the nation-state system is still the most legitimate actor in these relationships, it seems that final equations of national interests will be the utlimate determinants of peace, war, and wealth in the coming decades.<br />This is an important consideration to understand if we are interested in looking at the world as a set of relationships that are more than public relations gestures [Kissinger's, 'Diplomacy' is also essential].<br />This 'Coming War With Japan,' identifies a set of mutually incompatible needs of both the United States and Japan that will ultimately define their relationship in the absence of the Soviet threat. China certainly understand this as well. These needs dwell in the economic and strategic spheres, much of it centering around energy needs.<br />The value of the Friedmans' approach -what makes their other book, 'The Future of War,' equally good- is to present these issues within a broad, historical context that gives us a perspective that isn't limited by the current context of our relationship. Even if you think that any differences between Japan and the United States can ultimately be resolved without was or economic conflict or else obscured by the growing prominence of China, this book still provides a useful perspective on the United States' relationship with Japan and its interests in the region.	2001-01-22
US	45840663	R32E4RAUK828DO	0312181000	388137293	The Future of War: Power, Technology and American World Dominance in the Twenty-first Century	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Senility	This book is more than the grocery store's blase` litany of new gizmos that has Tom Clancy's name slapped on it. So if you are intersted in a book  that natters about specific weapons systems ad nauseum, you are better off shopping there or else watching the Discovery Channel. The Friedmans' book is useful because it sees technology as more than a collection of shiny and expensive toys that make loud noises; although utterly essential and often defining our ability to achieve our ends, technology is always a pillar within a grander scheme.<br />The value in this book is its capability to trace a concept historically, and provide us with a valuable and critical perspective of our strategic strength. Consequently we are able to analyze something transcending the, &quot;Our ship is better than their ship,&quot; manner of thought.<br />So a framework of strategic thought, within which technological capability relative to others is essential for analysis, gives us insight into future needs. Whether their conclusions are valid are certainly open to debate; the approach, however, is certainly valuable.<br />Like, 'The Coming War With Japan,' this book is able to use multiple levels of understanding to present their arguments.......... the importance of the Friedmans' work is growing everyday. Worth the read.	2001-01-22
US	45840663	R3VOJVDAHXQGT6	0674169875	687396507	Controlling the State: Constitutionalism from Ancient Athens to Today	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Solid and Wide in Scope	I'm in the middle of the book in the chapter on the Roman republic. I find it valuable as an undergrad developing an interest in law, because it exposes me to constitutionalism as a highly-varied concept throughout history. Constitutionalism is much more than an American document and the legal and philosophical battles produced by it. That will be my over-arching lesson learned from this book.<br />The introductory chapters on constitutional theory and sovereignty are, in and of themselves, valuable. Instructive footnotes too, without being oppressive.	2001-01-21
US	45840663	R2QU688KDJIB01	0679752552	916213869	Discipline & Punish: The Birth of the Prison	Books	2	22	49	N	N	Mashed Potato Through a Straw	I was assigned this book in a class last semester. I am glad that I read it; and I encourage others to do so. I do not, however, share the adulation of my professor or my fellow students for Foucault's thought. His presentation of an absolutist vision is itself a totalitarian infliction. <br />Transferring the architectural vision of control through environment into organized society in general is intriguing and provacative, yet the only valid ideas he presents are those thoroughly explored by other, more talented scholars. Any cursory reading of sociologists in the late 1800s, and this century's extensive exploration of behaviorism is far more useful. The mechanisms of control are thorougly explicated in many disciplines; Foucault fails to clearly illustrate the omnipresence that his model requires to demonstrate any relevance.<br />Supposedly it is the absence and inscrutability of panoptic mechanisms that proves their pervasion. However, Foucault simply cannot adequately illustrate the unity and method required for a self-sustaining system to actually be. Foucault's only historical examples are medieval punitive methods, which really only shows that mechanisms of control are endemic of human society, and not so unique of modernity. Additionally, his historical anecdotes are not presented in any scientific format. Rather they are simply literary lead-ins to a commentary on a context that the anecdotes are supposed to be divorced from. The real fault of this usage is that his arguments for a self-sustaining quantitative process with no demonstrative ends for the process is based on anecdotal references that were clearly intended to achieve specific policy goals; whether the containment of disease through quarantine, or deterrence through violent punishment.<br />Possible problems for devotees of Foucault will be that they will manage to observe any sort of political process and think it is valid to induce that it is a function of the panoptic dragon. Modern constitutional democracy is based on the sense of a process or system as being the valid mechanism for guaranteeing life and liberty. The sometime ambiguity of these ends does not invalidate the fact that there is a process that uses mechanisms of control to achieve these social goals. The frailty of human relations in complex organizations require a system of balance that does not necessarily explicate the achievement of paradise-on-earth in order for it to have a useful purpose to individuals.	2001-01-17
