US	45865813	R1M54BA2RGJRD1	1590520459	726887381	The Cross Centered Life: Keeping the Gospel The Main Thing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A little book that packs a big punch!  I'll reread this one.	I finally picked up this book within the past week upon the glowing recommendation of one of the elders at my church.  I hadn't done so previously because, honestly, it seemed it a little gimmicky to me.  I now confess without reservation that I was wrong -- this book has a lot to offer, and I wish I had read it sooner.<br /><br />There is nothing in the Christian life, indeed in all of human history, more important than the cross of Jesus Christ.  In this singular event, God displayed in the starkest possible terms the enormity of His own character.  Love, mercy, justice, wrath, holiness, righteousness, grace, sacrifice -- all these attributes and many more were thrust bodily before the eyes of humankind in the person of Christ.  God, and God alone, did all of this for one central purpose -- to bring glory to Himself by redeeming the souls of sinful men and women, not because we deserved it but in spite of the fact that we were so desperately unworthy of it.<br /><br />How quickly we forget.  How easily we wander away, led astray by the sights, sounds and distractions of this world.  How susceptible we are to the temptation to try to make it through this life on our own strength.  When we do these things we bring reproach upon the name of Christ and unnecessary pain upon ourselves.  Pastor Mahaney offers this short work as a clarion call to turn away from what is secondary, elusive, illusory and temporal, and back to the main thing:  the gospel of Christ.<br /><br />What is the gospel?  Very simply, that God, in the richness of His diverse character and for His own eternal glory, chose to give His own dear Son as a ransom for us, the precious for the utterly vile, the infinitely lovely for the unloveable, the just for the unjust.  Jesus, having shed His own blood voluntarily as an atonement for the sins of humanity, was buried in a cold stone tomb, and on the third day, by the power of the Living God, took up His own life again, victorious over death, Hell and the grave.  Jesus then ascended back to heaven, where He reigns over His creation in justice and mercy, for the glory of God and the good of His people.<br /><br />This little book is all about helping us wrap our minds around these essential and eternal truths, not only about who God is but also about who we are in Christ.  We're too busy focusing on all the wrong things, even though some of them may be good things, such as jobs, families, ministries.  We're also prone toward legalism (trying to earn God's favor) and self-condemnation (beating ourselves up over mistakes that God has already forgiven).<br /><br />In my humble opinion, the best part of the book was the exhortation to \\"talk to ourselves\\" instead of \\"listening to ourselves.\\"  When we listen to ourselves, we hear all kinds of negativity and half-truths, distorted by our own sin-warped self perception.  When we talk to ourselves, we have the opportunity to inject the truth of the Scriptures, especially about God's sovereign love and grace toward us.  That can (and should) make all the difference in how we approach life even in the difficult times.<br /><br />As I read this book, I realized that I am guilty of pretty much all the bad spiritual habits that the author describes.  It was a big help to have this gift of perspective, so I can take action to change my thinking, \\"bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ\\" (2 Cor. 10:5).  I'm sure I'll tend to slip back into these things over time, so I plan to reread this book periodically to help bring myself back to center -- right at the foot of the cross.ded back to heaven, where He reigns over His creation in justice and mercy, for the glory of God and the good of His people.    This little book is all about helping us wrap our minds around these essential and eternal truths, not only about who God is but also about who we are in Christ.  We're too busy focusing on all the wrong things, even though some of them may be good things, such as jobs, families, ministries.  We're also prone toward legalism (trying to earn God's favor) and self-condemnation (beating ourselves up over mistakes that God has already forgiven).    In my humble opinion, the best part of the book was the exhortation to \\"talk to ourselves\\" instead of \\"listening to ourselves.\\"  When we listen to ourselves, we hear all kinds of negativity and half-truths, distorted by our own sin-warped self perception.  When we talk to ourselves, we have the opportunity to inject the truth of the Scriptures, especially about God's sovereign love and grace toward us.  That can (and should) make all the difference in how we approach life even in the difficult times.    As I read this book, I realized that I am guilty of pretty much all the bad spiritual habits that the author describes.  It was a big help to have this gift of perspective, so I can take action to change my thinking, \\"bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ\\" (2 Cor. 10:5).  I'm sure I'll tend to slip back into these things over time, so I plan to reread this book periodically to help bring myself back to center -- right at the foot of the cross.	2005-09-27
US	45865813	R2UVD6BK5L16F9	0875526055	694556684	Age of Opportunity: A Biblical Guide to Parenting Teens, Second Edition (Resources for Changing Lives)	Books	5	61	63	N	N	Solid scriptural advice from someone who has lived it.	I recently read this volume in my role as a biblical counselee, as my wife and I sought pastoral advice on how to deal scripturally with our rebellious teenage daughter.  Having heard the author speak, both live and on tape, I knew that we would receive powerful medicine straight from the Scriptures, and I was not disappointed.<br /><br />\\"Age of Opportunity\\" was written for hurting parents of teens by someone who was himself a hurting parent of teens, to give hope and help in the struggle.  Paul Tripp knows exactly what it's like to be down in the trenches doing battle with our rebellious offspring, and he paints his pictures in stark, real-life terms.  When he writes, he does so from first-hand experience, but with a godly wisdom and a deep humility born of many years seeking after the heart of God -- who is Himself the greatest of fathers and who knows what it's like to handle rebellious children.<br /><br />The book opens with a call to stay in the fight, to shed the world's \\"if I can only survive until they reach age 18\\" mentality.  God has uniquely positioned and equipped every Christian parent to model Christ and shape the hearts of their children.  The real battle starts when we get a correct perspective on our role as parents, and who our kids are in the sight of God.<br /><br />From there, the author backs up the dump truck and unloads heaps of great scriptural advice on how to recognize where your teen is spiritually, and how to go for the real prize -- his or her heart.  We can regulate or suppress their outward behavior until we're blue in the face, but if we don't go for our teen's heart we really accomplish no permanent change.  The goal is less to steer them away from the world, and more to steer them toward a hunger for Christ.  Only then can we hope to turn out young adults who are able to handle life effectively by handling God's word accurately, and by having a heart that beats for the living God.<br /><br />From a purely personal perspective, however, this book had limited value for us in our counseling context, because Tripp writes from an assumption that your teen is a follower of Christ.  The advice in this book will not work otherwise.  Sadly, that is where we find ourselves -- the parents of a rebellious teenage daughter who has no heart for Christ, and is quite content to stay that way.  For now all we can do is cry out to God on behalf of our daughter to have mercy on her, and to grant her repentence.  However, for our soon-to-be-a-teen son, who shows great evidence of being a believer, we look forward to re-reading this book in a few years and putting its teachings into practice.  Thank you, Mr. Tripp, for sharing with us.tive, however, this book had limited value for us in our counseling context, because Tripp writes from an assumption that your teen is a follower of Christ.  The advice in this book will not work otherwise.  Sadly, that is where we find ourselves -- the parents of a rebellious teenage daughter who has no heart for Christ, and is quite content to stay that way.  For now all we can do is cry out to God on behalf of our daughter to have mercy on her, and to grant her repentence.  However, for our soon-to-be-a-teen son, who shows great evidence of being a believer, we look forward to re-reading this book in a few years and putting its teachings into practice.  Thank you, Mr. Tripp, for sharing with us.	2005-06-14
US	45865813	R1W6JE7B5V9H6F	0851518214	7646120	Valley of Vision (Leather): A Collection of Puritan Prayers and Devotions	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wonderful resource for personal devotions.	After about two years of using this book intermittently to supplement my own personal prayer time, I have come to one inescapable conclusion:  the Puritans knew how to pray!  This volume is a wonderful and majestic collection of Puritan prayers gleaned from the writings of a variety of authors, and categorized by theme.  The language is rich, beautiful, and dripping with Scriptural truth.  Each prayer provides the reader a unique opportunity to step into the writer's place and share his common experience as a fellow sinner and as a joint heir of the grace of life.  I am amazed at how frequently I can open to any of these prayers and find an instant connection with the author's perspective.  There is never any shortage of deep encouragement to be found in these pages.  Get a copy for yourself and use it.  You'll be glad you did.	2005-06-04
US	45865813	RCRQL0MCHZZKB	0785258604	316569840	The Reformation Study Bible: The Word That Changes Lives - The Faith That Changed the World (NKJV, Burgundy Genuine Leather)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A very valuable aid for studying the Scriptures.	For the past two years, this has been my personal study Bible, the one I read daily.  After using several others over the years, I have settled on this one for its decidedly Reformed perspective on the Scriptures and the richness of the NKJV translation.  With an editorial staff led by the illustrious R.C. Sproul, this Bible allows the reader a high degree of confidence that the study aids have been well researched and carefully thought out.<br /><br />Like any good study Bible, it includes useful chain references and cross references, a small concordance, and loads of annotations.  It also is peppered with short but pithy summaries of key biblical doctrines, and includes several short articles from the pens of great theologians like J.I. Packer and James Montgomery Boice, among others.  While I realize that everyone has their own preferences on translation or editorial perspective, you will be hard pressed to find a better resource for in-depth analysis of the Scriptures in a form that remains easy-to-use.  My only criticism is that some annotations are stretched a bit on their interpretations, but those instances are not common.  Overall, this study Bible is very useful for any serious student of the Scriptures.	2005-06-04
US	45865813	R32YRR3ZN8Q7RJ	0310511402	6397003	Competent to Counsel	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Where it all began.  Separates the wheat from the chaff.	This groundbreaking volume, now more than 30 years in print, remains the quintessential thesis on the fundamentals of nouthetic counseling.  Jay Adams may justly be described as the single most influential author, teacher and speaker in this arena.  This book is the first in a \\"trilogy\\" of key nouthetic counseling resources.  The other two books, \\"The Christian Counselor's Manual\\" and \\"A Theology of Christian Counseling\\", are equally indispensable to the nouthetic counselor, but this one lays the foundation of this unique, Scripture-based approach to Christian counseling.<br /><br />Adams spends the early portion of the book distinguishing nouthetic counseling from other prevalent models in secular psychology and psychiatry, and challenges the unbiblical and rankly humanistic assumptions of each.  He discusses Mowrer, who was particularly influential in laying out a model of counseling based on personal responsibility.  However, Mowrer's approach was limited to man's relationship to other men, divorced from man's accountability to God, and thus was fundamentally flawed.  Adams also properly critiques the Freudian model, with its refusal to acknowledge any responsibility of the counselee for his own actions, and the Rogerian approach, with its blatantly unbiblical assertion that man is basically good and able to solve his own problems.  All of these fallacious methods are juxtaposed against the nouthetic model, which involves loving, directive confrontation of a sinning person with the Scriptures for the purpose of affecting long term, God-honoring change in that person's thinking and behavior.  The goal is not just to solve the immediate \\"presentation problem\\", but to disciple the counselee so that he can be conformed over time to the image of Christ and become well equipped to tackle life's problems in the future.<br /><br />The balance of the book goes on to elaborate on the underpinnings of the nouthetic model, including fundamental assumptions about the authority of Scripture, the nature of man, rules of communication, and counseling methodology, to name a few of the major themes.  As one who has trained as a nouthetic counselor, including under the direct teaching of Jay Adams, and as one who has also sat as a counselee, I can attest that the nouthetic model WORKS in a way that man's cheap, paltry substitutes never have and never can.  Likewise, the misguided attempts of many so-called \\"Christian\\" counselors to blend secular and biblical models are doomed to inefficacy.<br /><br />\\"The word of God is living and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.  And there is no creature hidden from His sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him to whom we must give account.\\"  Only the nouthetic counseling model can lay claim to this kind of effectiveness, because only the nouthetic model is based entirely on the authority and power of the Scriptures.  For those who are serious about learning true Christian counseling, but have fallen into the trap of relying on humanistic theories and methods, this book is the place to start.the nature of man, rules of communication, and counseling methodology, to name a few of the major themes.  As one who has trained as a nouthetic counselor, including under the direct teaching of Jay Adams, and as one who has also sat as a counselee, I can attest that the nouthetic model WORKS in a way that man's cheap, paltry substitutes never have and never can.  Likewise, the misguided attempts of many so-called \\"Christian\\" counselors to blend secular and biblical models are doomed to inefficacy.    \\"The word of God is living and powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.  And there is no creature hidden from His sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him to whom we must give account.\\"  Only the nouthetic counseling model can lay claim to this kind of effectiveness, because only the nouthetic model is based entirely on the authority and power of the Scriptures.  For those who are serious about learning true Christian counseling, but have fallen into the trap of relying on humanistic theories and methods, this book is the place to start.	2005-06-04
US	45865813	R3R9P9Q3OWI7RI	0517124858	458212829	The Ultimate Hitchhiker's Guide: Complete and Unabridged	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The "Hitchhiker" series is in a class all its own.	What can I say?  There's not much I know of that evenly modestly compares to this compilation of offerings from the unquenchable pen of Douglas Adams.  To my knowledge, this series and related Adams novels stand alone in the genre of \\"comedic science fiction\\".  I was originally acquainted with these books well over a decade ago, but after seeing the trailer for the soon-to-be-released Hitchhiker movie, I decided to revisit my old friends.  Not surprisingly, I found these stories to be no less enjoyable the second time through.<br /><br />From the opening page of the first novel, the reader will quickly discern that he (or she, or it, depending on a host of possible interplanetary anatomical anomalies) has stumbled onto something that is quite unlike anything he has ever encountered before.  Immediately the author's keen and incisive wit begins to leap off the page, evoking repeated audible chuckles from the reader, punctuated here and there by the occasional risive snort and even, dare I say, a guffaw or two.  And all this is before you even finish the first page.<br /><br />The author promptly sets the tone for the entire series of stories -- irreverent, biting, insightful humor offered up with that uniquely British flavor.  From there the reader is quickly introduced to the hapless Arthur Dent, who spends the early pages of the story lying in mud in front of a bulldozer, while wearing only his dressing gown as he seeks to save his home from demolition.  It's not long before he is whisked away on a bizarre interstellar adventure by Ford Prefect, hitchhiker/party-crasher/Pan-Galactic Gargle Blaster mixer extraordinaire, just as a Vogon wrecking crew makes the whole issue of Arthur's house and the bulldozer thoroughly moot by demolishing the whole planet -- to make way for a hyperspace bypass which, as it turns out, wasn't really needed anyway.<br /><br />Well, you get the idea.  Douglas Adams will lead you on a merry jaunt across the galaxy -- and in various contorted patterns through the space-time continuum.  You'll enjoy the company of the two-headed Zaphod Beeblebrox, the President of the Galaxy, Slartibartfast, fashioner of custom-made planets (specializing in fjords), and Marvin, the morbidly depressed robot, to name just a few, as they set off to find the Question to the Ultimate Answer of life, the universe and everything.  Oh, by the way, they'll also need to save the Universe while they're about it all.<br /><br />If you haven't read these yet, you don't know what you're missing!  So don't!  Miss out, that is.  Enjoy the hike, and don't forget your towel.  And your bottle of that Ol' Janx Spirit.contorted patterns through the space-time continuum.  You'll enjoy the company of the two-headed Zaphod Beeblebrox, the President of the Galaxy, Slartibartfast, fashioner of custom-made planets (specializing in fjords), and Marvin, the morbidly depressed robot, to name just a few, as they set off to find the Question to the Ultimate Answer of life, the universe and everything.  Oh, by the way, they'll also need to save the Universe while they're about it all. <br /> <br />If you haven't read these yet, you don't know what you're missing!  So don't!  Miss out, that is.  Enjoy the hike, and don't forget your towel.  And your bottle of that Ol' Janx Spirit. <br />	2005-04-15
US	45865813	R39RU0E444V0CJ	1594674574	677463996	Hear Him! the One Hundred Twenty-Five Commands of Jesus	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Unique and valuable, but should emphasize grace more	Thanks to the author for this groundbreaking volume which should cause the thoughtful reader to ask, \\"Why hasn't anyone thought of this before?\\"  As one who has read a modest library of books on theology and Christian doctrine, I have never encountered a book that takes this approach either in content or format.  It was quite refreshing and well thought out, and I believe it should be broadly read by the apostate American church which, sadly, comprises the great majority of Christendom in this country.<br /><br />The single greatest value of this book is the unmistakable challenge to nominal, complacent \\"Christians\\" to examine themselves to see whether they are truly in the faith.  In this age of cheap grace and lip-service Christianity, there are precious few authors who stand up boldly and call us back to the simplicity and devotion of obedience to Christ.  Another prevalent theme is the author's strident refutation of the heresy of \\"no Lordship\\" Christianity - such a concept is absolutely foreign to Scripture.  I appreciate Peter Wittstock joining the chorus to proclaim this sorely needed message.<br /><br />The book's format is simple and straightforward.  The first 80 to 90 pages lay out the underlying premise and purpose of the book, including the author's obvious burden to see Christians return to a place of genuine submission and obedience to the commands of our Lord.  The scriptural basis is well established, particularly drawing on the New Testament epistles and their repeated emphasis on the need for obedience to Christ's commandments.  This portion of the book is scholarly in its presentation, and includes a substantial grammatical and statistical analysis of the imperative verbs used in the original Greek text.  The latter half of the book is a simple enumeration of the commands of Jesus as drawn from the gospels, in a more or less chronological format, with commentary and application added to an appropriate degree for each one.  The style is much less formal, and contrasts notably with the more lofty presentation in the first half of the book.<br /><br />No book review would be worthwhile without some constructive criticism, and the following is offered with due respect for, and deference to, the author.  My title suggests that the role of grace is understated, so I'll expound on that.  I am by no means a \\"cheap grace\\" Christian, but I am a major advocate of the indispensable role of grace in transforming the life of the believer.  Grace is not a license to sin, but it is the only true source of power not to sin.  Our efforts at obedience, while absolutely necessary (Phil. 2:12-13; 1 Tim. 4:7; 1 Cor. 15:10), will simply fall flat and become so much empty religion without our desperate reliance on the grace of God.  Obedience of that type, while well intentioned, can only lead to Wesleyan perfectionism or worse, a new Phariseeism.  While it's clear enough to me that the author is not advocating either of these positions, I was struck by the way grace is mentioned almost as an afterthought in this process.  I probably relate best to the position of Millard Erickson, as quoted on page 41, on the balance between faith and works, or God's grace and our effort, in the process of progressive sanctification.<br /><br />Similarly, some passages give the impression that the fact of indwelling sin is discounted or marginalized.  While we are to discipline ourselves for godliness, there is no question that godly people sometimes fall into sin because of the battle that rages in every one of us (James 4:1-3; Gal. 5:16-17).  Some scriptural examples include the apostle Paul's struggle with sin (Rom. 7:7-25), Peter's threefold denial of Jesus (John ch. 18), and David's adultery and murder (2 Sam. ch. 11).  These passages show us that the difference between a true believer and an unregenerate professor of Christ is found not in absolute obedience, but rather in a general and increasingly consistent life pattern of obedience, coupled with a repentant heart.  Jesus predicted Peter's sin and prayed for Peter's restoration even before the event occurred (Lk. 22:31-32).  It took only a look from Jesus to dissolve Peter into bitter tears of repentance.  Similarly, David crumbled before the accusing finger of Nathan the prophet, and penned Psalm 51.  Even though David's sins were heinous, he remained a man after God's own heart.  Compare these with King Saul, whose life is characterized by repeated disobedience and excuse making (e.g., 1 Sam. ch. 15), without any evidence of true repentance.<br /><br />My point is that the scriptural balance is one of our own spiritual \\"sweat\\" expended in utter dependence on the grace of God for power to bring about true obedience and lasting, heart-level change.  One must be careful not to tip the balance too far to one side or the other, and I perceive that this book leans uncomfortably in favor of our effort without due emphasis on the empowering of grace.  Again, I do not suggest that we sin so that grace may abound (Rom. 6:1-2), but rather flee from sin into the arms of Christ for power in times of temptation.  Only then can we hope to walk in true obedience.  Remember that sanctification is a lifetime process, not an overnight transformation (Phil. 1:6).  Just as our works are powerless to save us, so too are they powerless to sanctify us apart from the grace of God (Gal. 3:1-3).<br /><br />I must disagree with one point of repeated emphasis in this book, specifically the author's denunciation of \\"predestinarian theology\\" as it relates to the issue of the believer's assurance of salvation.  The author seems to assert that one cannot consistently hold to the biblical doctrines of election and predestination after the Calvinist/Reformed model, and also have a proper theology of works and grace.  I beg to differ.  Just because the doctrine of election has often been misconstrued and abused, that does not mean it is inconsistent with a commitment to personal sanctification.  I strongly affirm my eternal security in Christ on the basis of God's unconditional election before the foundation of the world, and that my election and hope of salvation are independent of my \\"performance\\" during this life.  Just as I could not work to earn my salvation, neither can I work to keep it.  It's all of God.<br /><br />Nevertheless, a true believer will not view that security as a license to sin.  A person who tramples God's grace underfoot in that way should strongly question whether his faith is genuine.  Rather, my response to a proper biblical understanding of election is one of reverence, awe and gratitude at the enormity of God's love and grace toward me - to think that He would choose one such as me to become His child!  This provides a truly powerful impetus TOWARD a life of loving obedience, not away from it.  Thus, godly works will flow from a truly regenerated heart, and the fruits of the spirit will become increasingly evident as the believer matures over time.<br /><br />Nevertheless, in spite of my personal differences over nuance and some doctrinal quibbling, I believe in general that this book needs to be read by church leaders and laymen all across this land.  It's time to put an end to cheap grace theology and lackadaisical Christianity, and the best way to do that is simply to listen to Jesus and do what He says.  This book shouts that message loud and strong, and it's a message that must be heeded.sus predicted Peter's sin and prayed for Peter's restoration even before the event occurred (Lk. 22:31-32).  It took only a look from Jesus to dissolve Peter into bitter tears of repentance.  Similarly, David crumbled before the accusing finger of Nathan the prophet, and penned Psalm 51.  Even though David's sins were heinous, he remained a man after God's own heart.  Compare these with King Saul, whose life is characterized by repeated disobedience and excuse making (e.g., 1 Sam. ch. 15), without any evidence of true repentance.    My point is that the scriptural balance is one of our own spiritual \\"sweat\\" expended in utter dependence on the grace of God for power to bring about true obedience and lasting, heart-level change.  One must be careful not to tip the balance too far to one side or the other, and I perceive that this book leans uncomfortably in favor of our effort without due emphasis on the empowering of grace.  Again, I do not suggest that we sin so that grace may abound (Rom. 6:1-2), but rather flee from sin into the arms of Christ for power in times of temptation.  Only then can we hope to walk in true obedience.  Remember that sanctification is a lifetime process, not an overnight transformation (Phil. 1:6).  Just as our works are powerless to save us, so too are they powerless to sanctify us apart from the grace of God (Gal. 3:1-3).    I must disagree with one point of repeated emphasis in this book, specifically the author's denunciation of \\"predestinarian theology\\" as it relates to the issue of the believer's assurance of salvation.  The author seems to assert that one cannot consistently hold to the biblical doctrines of election and predestination after the Calvinist/Reformed model, and also have a proper theology of works and grace.  I beg to differ.  Just because the doctrine of election has often been misconstrued and abused, that does not mean it is inconsistent with a commitment to personal sanctification.  I strongly affirm my eternal security in Christ on the basis of God's unconditional election before the foundation of the world, and that my election and hope of salvation are independent of my \\"performance\\" during this life.  Just as I could not work to earn my salvation, neither can I work to keep it.  It's all of God.    Nevertheless, a true believer will not view that security as a license to sin.  A person who tramples God's grace underfoot in that way should strongly question whether his faith is genuine.  Rather, my response to a proper biblical understanding of election is one of reverence, awe and gratitude at the enormity of God's love and grace toward me - to think that He would choose one such as me to become His child!  This provides a truly powerful impetus TOWARD a life of loving obedience, not away from it.  Thus, godly works will flow from a truly regenerated heart, and the fruits of the spirit will become increasingly evident as the believer matures over time.    Nevertheless, in spite of my personal differences over nuance and some doctrinal quibbling, I believe in general that this book needs to be read by church leaders and laymen all across this land.  It's time to put an end to cheap grace theology and lackadaisical Christianity, and the best way to do that is simply to listen to Jesus and do what He says.  This book shouts that message loud and strong, and it's a message that must be heeded.	2005-03-24
US	45865813	RZOSVJLA5U94U	1879737353	639500842	The Complete Husband: A Practical Guide to Biblical Husbanding	Books	5	62	66	N	N	Men, prepare to be humbled!	I read this volume a few months ago as part of my monthly men's discipleship group, and quite frankly, took a spiritual bludgeoning.  This was far and away one of the toughest books I have ever had to read.  The author assumes two things about his readers.  First, that you're a committed follower of Jesus Christ, with a sincere desire to please God in your marriage.  Second, that you're not thin-skinned, because this book ain't for wimps.  Be ready to set aside your pride -- you won't be needing it.<br /><br />This is not a complicated book.  It simply sets out the very high scriptural standard that we as men are to follow as we live out our marriages and try to love our wives as Christ loved the church.  It also enumerates in no uncertain terms the many, many, many ways we fail to live up to that standard.  The bottom line is that we are to sacrifice whatever it takes of our own \\"rights\\" and desires so that we can demonstrate true Christ-like love toward our wives and present them blameless and holy before the Lord in the day of judgment.  If you are a Christian husband, you are squarely in the author's crosshairs -- but only because you are first in God's crosshairs.  I'll never forget sitting next to my wife as I read this book, and looking over at her like a deer in the headlights saying \\"I can't do this!\\"<br /><br />Don't despair, though.  The book is not all doom and gloom for us sinful wretches.  It's also chock full of great advice on how to rise to the challenge of scripture.  I have implemented some of this in my own marriage, and it works!  All it takes is a teachable spirit, a humble attitude, a willingess to work up a sweat (figuratively speaking), and a lot of help from the Holy Spirit, and you can take not only your marriage but also your personal relationship with Christ to a whole new level.  Remember, 1 Pet. 3:7 admonishes us husbands to live with our wives in an understanding way, giving honor to the wife as to the weaker (read \\"more fragile and valuable\\") vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life, that our prayers may not be hindered.  This book will give alot of great advice on how to live that out.  Read it!  Live it!  Love it!<br /><br />Great book.d as being heirs together of the grace of life, that our prayers may not be hindered.  This book will give alot of great advice on how to live that out.  Read it!  Live it!  Love it!  Great book.	2004-12-01
US	45865813	R34XMT7OW489OF	1879737280	646308011	The Heart of Anger: Practical Help for Prevention and Cure of Anger in Children	Books	4	78	88	N	N	Lots of great insights, but maybe a little idealistic.	This is the second book I have read by Lou Priolo (the first was \\"The Complete Husband\\"), and I was not disappointed by the wealth of insights that he provides to approach parenting in a purposeful, Bible-based way.  Keep in mind that this book was written by a Christian, for Christians who are committed to following Christ themselves and teaching their children to do the same.  If you are not a believer, if you do not have the power of the Holy Spirit living in you, you will find many of the principles in this book very difficult, if not impossible, to put into practice.<br /><br />Priolo's approach to dealing with angry children, and with parenting in general, is first to focus on the parents themselves.  Parents need to identify whether they show the \\"symptoms\\" of a child-centered home as opposed to a God-centered home.  Next, parents are exhorted to consider twenty-five key ways they most commonly provoke their children.  Once the reader is able to assess his or her own situation, Priolo touches on many key problems of parenting and provides scripturally sound advice to solve them.  Issues like anger, obedience, respect, and servanthood are all explored as the author teaches us to look past a child's outward behavior to identify and deal with the issues of the heart.  \\"Out of the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks.\\"  The tools provided in this book will equip the godly parent to bring up their progeny without provoking them to wrath.<br /><br />My only criticism is that the author seems to have a somewhat idealistic, or at least overly optimistic, view of what the average parent is able to implement in today's hurried culture.  He offers suggestions like repetitious journaling and roleplaying, or use of the \\"Think Room\\" (where children are given the opportunity to study biblical principles about their behavior), to train kids in the right way to act and respond to their parents.  As I read these sections, along with some of the illustrative dialogues, I thought to myself, \\"Yeah, right.  Who has time for that?  And who in the world talks to their kids like that?\\" (The sample dialogues were decidedly Leave-It-To-Beaver-ish).  That's not to say these suggestions are useless, but for most of us they'll have to be \\"stripped down\\" to a more manageable form if they're going to be truly practical.<br /><br />Overall, I took away some great insights which I plan to work into my own parenting plan.  While the author acknowledges this is hard work, he reminds us that by God's grace we can handle it, and the reward will make it all worthwhile.\\"Yeah, right.  Who has time for that?  And who in the world talks to their kids like that?\\" (The sample dialogues were decidedly Leave-It-To-Beaver-ish).  That's not to say these suggestions are useless, but for most of us they'll have to be \\"stripped down\\" to a more manageable form if they're going to be truly practical.      Overall, I took away some great insights which I plan to work into my own parenting plan.  While the author acknowledges this is hard work, he reminds us that by God's grace we can handle it, and the reward will make it all worthwhile.	2004-10-30
US	45865813	R33PH56XMW4SXI	1885767293	444753113	Persuasions: A Dream of Reason Meeting Unbelief	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Apologetics for the average Christian -- wonderful book!	Kudos to the author for an excellent primer on Christian apologetics.  This semi-allegorical book is designed to equip the \\"average\\" Christian to understand the major criticisms of his faith, and how to refute them logically, lovingly, and effectively -- without needing a seminary degree!<br /><br />The narrator relates his observations of Evangelist, who travels the road leading to the City, i.e. heaven.  He meets a series of people traveling in the opposite direction, toward the Abyss which awaits at the other end of the road.  Each mistakenly believes, however, that he is headed in the right direction.  When Evangelist gently notes their error, each proceeds to explain to him why they are correct and he is wrong.  Each dialogue is based on a different critique of Christianity, whether it be antinomianism, existentialism, or hypocrisy within the church, to name just a few.  Each conversation ends with the traveler continuing on his way, with new ideas and implications to think about.<br /><br />There are thirteen such encounters in all, each presented in a concise, easy to read chapter.  The arguments follow a smooth logical flow, and the reasoning presented in each chapter is incisive.  In short, this book enables the lay reader to quickly grasp and use some powerful tools to \\"be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks a reason for the hope that is in you, with meekness and fear.\\"  This is an incredibly practical resource which can easily be read in one sitting.  However, I definitely intend to re-read it when the opportunity arises.  I commend this book to the reading of every committed believer in Jesus Christ.	2004-10-14
US	45865813	R19DE3QZ6MHCOP	0891096175	156980676	Trusting God: Even When Life Hurts	Books	4	45	49	N	N	Very practical; theologically sound; but REDUNDANT!	I first picked up this volume a couple years ago when I was going through a severe spiritual trial.  One of the lessons I had to learn at that time was to come to grips with God's limitless sovereignty, and to conclude from His sovereignty that I could trust Him -- not just with the issues I was then facing, but with every aspect of my life.  At that time I read only about one-third of the book, which struck me as terribly redundant in its seemingly endless presentation of God's sovereignty.  Once I got my fill of that, I put the book aside.<br />In the past month, however, I have had occasion to re-read this book in its entirety as part of a men's discipleship study.  I still thought it was redundant, taking over 200 pages to say what could be said effectively in half that amount of space.  Nevertheless, when you get past the sections on sovereignty to the chapters on God's love and wisdom, you will see a grand and comprehensive picture (to the extent we are able as finite humans) of God's wise and careful guidance of the whole of His creation for His glory and our good.<br />I must take issue with the review of Rev. Bud Espers (the very first one under this listing).  Apparently he didn't read the same book as the rest of us, or at least not the second half of it ... or maybe he simply hasn't read his Bible.  If he did, I don't see how he could draw the conclusions that he did about Bridges or this book.  Yes, God's sovereignty can be a scary thing, and can come across as &quot;cold and uncaring&quot; (to use Mr. Espers' words) unless you understand the broader teachings of scripture about the nature and character of God.  Bridges is also very careful to point out that our &quot;good&quot; is conformity to the image of Christ, not comfort, ease or &quot;happiness&quot; in this life.  Don't get the two confused or you'll likely reach the same cynical conclusion as Mr. Espers.<br />That's why I think Bridges' inclusion of the chapters on wisdom and love are indispensible to a proper presentation of these issues.  God is just as loving and wise as He is sovereign, and if you get out of balance on these or any of God's attributes, you will end up with a skewed picture just like Mr. Espers.  As a serious student of the Bible, I can say with some confidence that this book is theologically quite solid, and is heavily supported by scripture.  One of the benefits of having so much redundancy is that the author drives home his point from so many different angles as to leave no room for doubt about its biblical veracity.<br />To sum it up, this is a book for hurting people who need to come to grips not with their circumstances, but with the God who orders the circumstances.  Life is hard and frequently painful, and unless we learn that God is trustworthy and has our greater good in mind, this life will be terrifying indeed.  The apostle Paul said it best in Romans 8:18 -- &quot;For I reckon that the sufferings of this present life are not worthy to be compared to the glory which shall be revealed in us.&quot;  You can only have that attitude, though, if you have a proper biblical understanding of God's sovereignty.  This book is a great place to find it.sible to a proper presentation of these issues.  God is just as loving and wise as He is sovereign, and if you get out of balance on these or any of God's attributes, you will end up with a skewed picture just like Mr. Espers.  As a serious student of the Bible, I can say with some confidence that this book is theologically quite solid, and is heavily supported by scripture.  One of the benefits of having so much redundancy is that the author drives home his point from so many different angles as to leave no room for doubt about its biblical veracity.<br />To sum it up, this is a book for hurting people who need to come to grips not with their circumstances, but with the God who orders the circumstances.  Life is hard and frequently painful, and unless we learn that God is trustworthy and has our greater good in mind, this life will be terrifying indeed.  The apostle Paul said it best in Romans 8:18 -- &quot;For I reckon that the sufferings of this present life are not worthy to be compared to the glory which shall be revealed in us.&quot;  You can only have that attitude, though, if you have a proper biblical understanding of God's sovereignty.  This book is a great place to find it.	2004-05-11
US	45865813	R3BVJDLD4AGSC8	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great story, terrible ending.	True to form, Tom Clancy has cooked up yet another super-tense technothriller.  This time the threat is bioterrorism on a global scale, all part of a nefarious plot hatched by a gaggle of environmentalist wacko intelligentsia types that frequently find themselves on the receiving end of some unflattering commentary by Rush Limbaugh and his contemporaries. These \\"characters\\" are really more like caricatures, with their off-the-wall ideas and somewhat corny dialogue.  But when you throw in the ultra-sexy element of high-end, world class special ops, you have all the makings of an awesome read -- until the end.<br /><br />The basic premise is that a group of self-styled defenders of Mother Earth are conspiring to restore her to her pristine, unsullied state by eliminating the chief cause of her defilement -- humanity.  They will do this by developing and deploying an ultravirulent bioagent designed to render mankind extinct -- except for themselves and a few \\"chosen\\".  These will be immunized with an appropriate vaccine, and will whether the storm in a \\"biodome\\" type of facility.  After the cycle of bio-death has run its course, they will emerge to rebuild humanity and civilization \\"as it was meant to be\\", in an environmentally sound and sensitive way.<br /><br />These goings-on just happen to coincide with the assembly of a multinational force of special ops experts built around John Clark, with Domingo \\"Ding\\" Chavez (of \\"Clear and Present Danger\\" fame) as the XO and senior field operative.  This organization, known as \\"Rainbow\\", will fill the gaps in counterterrorism efforts of other individual nations by providing an integrated rapid-response team with all the necessary jurisdictional and diplomatic details hammered out in advance.  As luck would have it, little hints begin to drop and little pieces of the puzzle begin to fit together over time, allowing the goods guys ultimately to stymie the evildoers.<br /><br />This one is chock full of suspense and gritty action sequences, with some slick operations involving all manner of high tech weapons and gadgetry -- you would expect nothing less from Clancy.  There are also some pulse pounding hostage rescue situations where the Rainbow team shows just how good it is -- but not perfect.  Generally speaking it's a great read and a good time, but I was incredibly disappointed by the anticlimactic ending -- Clancy definitely dropped the ball on this one.  I'm not sure what happened, but he had an opportunity to make this a top-notch thriller and he just plain blew it.  I've read only about a third to a half of what Clancy has in print, so I'll just get over it and hope the next one of his books I pick up doesn't have the same flaw.lick operations involving all manner of high tech weapons and gadgetry -- you would expect nothing less from Clancy.  There are also some pulse pounding hostage rescue situations where the Rainbow team shows just how good it is -- but not perfect.  Generally speaking it's a great read and a good time, but I was incredibly disappointed by the anticlimactic ending -- Clancy definitely dropped the ball on this one.  I'm not sure what happened, but he had an opportunity to make this a top-notch thriller and he just plain blew it.  I've read only about a third to a half of what Clancy has in print, so I'll just get over it and hope the next one of his books I pick up doesn't have the same flaw.	2004-04-30
US	45865813	R2GDNJ0978UCS1	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	4	29	34	N	N	Getting to know God's "other side."  Idolators beware!	This is a book for Christian idolators.  You're probably scratching your head and wondering what I mean by that phrase, since it seems oxymoronic.  How can a person be a Christian and an idolator at the same time?  Very simply, by worshiping God as something other or less than he truly is.  We all do it to a greater or lesser degree, depending on our theological and doctrinal \\"upbringing.\\"  Every Christian, whether a truly born again believer or a merely nominal professor of Christ, knows a certain amount of truth about God, some of us very little, others rather alot by comparison.  Regardless of where you fall on the spectrum, your knowledge of the infinite God is forced to pass through the filter of your finite, sin-tainted human mind.  The result is a false or incomplete notion of God's nature and character.  In other words, we worship something other than the One True and Living God -- i.e., an idol.<br /><br />Packer writes to alert complacent Christendom to this seemingly little-recognized phenomenon.  He astutely points out, though, that this occurs not simply in ignorance or as a function of limited human capacity to comprehend the infinite.  Rather, there is a certain degree of willfulness involved, as many of us choose to disregard or downplay those aspects of God's character which we find less pleasant than others.  For example, western Christians love to talk about God's mercy, love and providence.  We extol his kindness, longsuffering and forgiveness, as if these \\"good\\" attributes were the only ones worthy of mention.  But what about those qualities which get far less play in the Christian bookstores -- things like wrath, justice, righteousness and holiness?  When was the last time you saw a bestseller about the wrath of God?  Yet wrath is just as much a part of God's makeup as his mercy.  He is no less holy and righteous and just than he is good and forgiving.  It is to these unpopular and oft disregarded qualities that Packer redirects our attention.<br /><br />The author also reminds us of the vast difference between knowing \\"about\\" God, and actually \\"knowing God\\".  In other words, our heads can be filled with theology, but if it doesn't translate into a life-altering relationship of love and obedience toward God, we cannot say that we know God.  And so Packer sets out to teach us something about how to know God by exploring his attributes, and in particular the \\"unhappy\\" ones.  He also, in what I think is one of the best portions of the whole book, spends a fair amount of ink expounding the crucial doctrines of propitation and adoption.  Even better, he gives the most succinct and eloquent summary of the gospel which I have ever read, by linking these two concepts in a simple three-word phrase:  the gospel is the good news of \\"adoption through propitiation.\\"  The theological depth of that statement is simply mind-bending, and Packer's formulation of it, by itself, makes this book worth reading.<br /><br />My only criticism would be of the book's undue (in my opinion) verbosity.  The author could have communicated the same truth with the same impact in a much more concise presentation.  I found some of the chapters toward the center of the volume to be a bit labored and dry, and even occasionally redundant.  Nonetheless, this has been and will continue to be a classic, and I commend it to the reading of every believer who is serious about diving deeper into the unfathomable depths of God's nature and character.  Let us be idolators no more!uthor also reminds us of the vast difference between knowing \\"about\\" God, and actually \\"knowing God\\".  In other words, our heads can be filled with theology, but if it doesn't translate into a life-altering relationship of love and obedience toward God, we cannot say that we know God.  And so Packer sets out to teach us something about how to know God by exploring his attributes, and in particular the \\"unhappy\\" ones.  He also, in what I think is one of the best portions of the whole book, spends a fair amount of ink expounding the crucial doctrines of propitation and adoption.  Even better, he gives the most succinct and eloquent summary of the gospel which I have ever read, by linking these two concepts in a simple three-word phrase:  the gospel is the good news of \\"adoption through propitiation.\\"  The theological depth of that statement is simply mind-bending, and Packer's formulation of it, by itself, makes this book worth reading.    My only criticism would be of the book's undue (in my opinion) verbosity.  The author could have communicated the same truth with the same impact in a much more concise presentation.  I found some of the chapters toward the center of the volume to be a bit labored and dry, and even occasionally redundant.  Nonetheless, this has been and will continue to be a classic, and I commend it to the reading of every believer who is serious about diving deeper into the unfathomable depths of God's nature and character.  Let us be idolators no more!	2004-04-26
US	45865813	R15CRF0TOHQEE7	188103903X	249461199	How Can I change? Victory in the struggle against sin	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Scripturally sound and eminently practical; very useful for small group discussions.	This volume is intended as a handbook to train Christians in the lost art of bibical sanctification.  I say \\"lost art\\" and emphasize \\"biblical\\" sanctification, because there are alot of paltry substitutes being bandied about in America's churches nowadays that bear little if any resemblance to the scriptural model for how believers are to become molded over time into the image of Jesus Christ.  Mahaney and Boisvert strike just the right scriptural balance between the passivity of the \\"let go and let God\\" mentality that characterizes some churches, and the legalistic approach so prevalent in certain others.  The authors properly rebuke those who would adhere to either distortion of God's plan in this crucial matter, or worse, those who would deny the need for us to confront our own sinfulness in a meaningful way.<br /><br />The authors alternate in writing the individual chapters, instead of simply meshing their thoughts.  The result is a coherent presentation of biblical truth on this issue from two separate but entirely consistent perspectives.  The first chapter defines sanctification according to the Bible and explains its critical importance in the life of every believer.  The second chapter explains why regeneration, or the \\"new birth\\", must precede any effort at personal sanctification.  From there the book moves on into a discussion of practical tools to bring to the battle.  And I do mean \\"battle\\" -- to paraphrase one quote from chapter 4, the quest for personal holiness and discipleship is no less than a form of warfare.<br /><br />This is not a gimmicky \\"quick fix\\" kind of book, though.  It's replete with tough truths and thought provoking quotes that will challenge every honest and committed believer to re-evaluate their attitudes toward sin and the sanctification process.  Definitely no \\"fluff\\" here!  Throughout the book, the authors repeatedly emphasize that this is a cooperative process between God and man -- we provide the effort and obedience, and the Holy Spirit supplies the power to achieve meaningful results and genuine, lasting change.  Both aspects are indispensible.<br /><br />I got acquainted with this book in my weekly small group Bible study.  Its seven chapters could, I suppose, be covered one per week, but I think you would be shortchanging yourself to move through this so quickly.  We took two to three weeks per chapter, and enjoyed alot of vigorous, meaty dialogue that edified everyone in the group.  I highly recommend that you give this a try, either for yourself or your small group.  You won't come away unchanged.d the Holy Spirit supplies the power to achieve meaningful results and genuine, lasting change.  Both aspects are indispensible. <br /> <br />I got acquainted with this book in my weekly small group Bible study.  Its seven chapters could, I suppose, be covered one per week, but I think you would be shortchanging yourself to move through this so quickly.  We took two to three weeks per chapter, and enjoyed alot of vigorous, meaty dialogue that edified everyone in the group.  I highly recommend that you give this a try, either for yourself or your small group.  You won't come away unchanged.	2004-04-15
US	45865813	R34H8IIZMOOL7P	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Well organized, in-depth exposition of reformed theology.  Fair and balanced.	As a member of the Evangelical Free Church of America, which is decidedly Reformed in its theology, I have had ample opportunity to get familiar with this book.  Grudem's approach, like most systematic theology texts, is to categorize major areas of Christian doctrine and to discuss each in detail with heavy reference to supporting scripture passages.  For example, this volume begins with basic tenets like the doctrines of God (i.e. his existence, nature, attributes, etc.) and the Bible (authority, canonicity, etc.), and moves on through a host of topics such as atonement, the doctrines of man and sin, angels and demons, election, and eschatology, to name just a very few.<br /><br />The book is divided into major study units covering a particularly broad topic, for example, the doctrine of the Bible.  That topic is then further divided as each chapter covers a major subtopic within the larger doctrine.  Each chapter includes cross references to systematic theologies by other authors of all major Catholic and Protestant denominations, for ready comparison of how each doctrine is treated by those with other viewpoints.  Not only is this a great study resource, but it is also very useful for group discussions, as each chapter concludes with a list of discussion questions, worship suggestions, and a relevant scripture passage for memorization.<br /><br />The single quality which makes this volume such a valuable tool, however, is the author's full discussion and fair treatment of competing viewpoints.  For any given topic, the author will first lay out all major \\"mainstream\\" views of the doctrine, and discuss the biblical texts which lend support to each.  He will then state the position which he finds to be the most persuasive, and detail his reasoning with additional reference to scripture.<br /><br />In every case, the text is heavily footnoted and all competing views are treated in a fair and scholarly manner.  It is apparent that the author has taken great pains to avoid misrepresenting the views of those with whom he disagrees, and is very gracious in acknowledging the relative strengths of their positions where it is warranted.  Grudem also readily admits, in the case of certain difficult issues, that the scriptures may not provide a definitive answer.<br /><br />The net result is an incredibly useful and valuable tool for evaluating a wide range of Christian doctrinal issues, with an opportunity to review multiple viewpoints in the process and see the supporting texts for each.  I am grateful to the author for the depth of understanding and clarity it has added to my own studies.  You may not be reformed in your theology, but don't let that dissuade you from looking into this incredibly well researched and annotated study resource.  It may challenge some of your beliefs (it certainly did for me) and you may not agree with all of his positions (I don't), but the experience will be a great benefit.the views of those with whom he disagrees, and is very gracious in acknowledging the relative strengths of their positions where it is warranted.  Grudem also readily admits, in the case of certain difficult issues, that the scriptures may not provide a definitive answer.    The net result is an incredibly useful and valuable tool for evaluating a wide range of Christian doctrinal issues, with an opportunity to review multiple viewpoints in the process and see the supporting texts for each.  I am grateful to the author for the depth of understanding and clarity it has added to my own studies.  You may not be reformed in your theology, but don't let that dissuade you from looking into this incredibly well researched and annotated study resource.  It may challenge some of your beliefs (it certainly did for me) and you may not agree with all of his positions (I don't), but the experience will be a great benefit.	2004-03-18
US	45865813	RWYF2G0NTOR97	0802467997	34540024	Spiritual Leadership (Commitment To Spiritual Growth)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Think you can lead?  Read this book before you answer.	I have just endured the challenge of reading this volume as part of a men's discipleship group at my church.  And when I say \\"challenge\\", I mean just that!  This is a short but very pithy analysis of those qualities that are indispensible for a Christian to exercise spiritual leadership in a successful and dynamic way.<br /><br />As a low-level lay leader in my church who is reasonably certain (if such a thing is possible) that God has bigger plans in store for me, I was deeply convicted as this book laid out in very simple terms what it takes to make it as a leader in God's kingdom.  Obviously first and foremost is the need to be filled with the Holy Spirit, without which we cannot possibly hope to achieve anything of eternal significance.<br /><br />That's only the beginning, though.  Attributes like tact, diligence, vision and decisiveness are just a few of the many leadership traits that are explored one by one.  With each new segment, the reader is forced to ask himself three questions:  1.  Do I possess this quality?  2.  Is my exercise of this quality empowered by the Spirit of God?  3.  Am I exercising this quality for God's glory or my own?  Step by step, the layers of the reader's character are peeled away and examined, and the motives of his heart are laid bare.  Throughout this process, though, the author's intent is not to discourage, but to help the reader understand the sheer weight and seriousness of the task, and to exhort him to change and develop those areas that are deficient.  I, for one, came to realize just how cavalier my attitudes were -- very convicting indeed!  Probably the most penetrating statement, however, was the reminder that a spiritual leader must pay a heavy personal cost to lead, and that cost only grows as the level of leadership increases.<br /><br />The book is laid out in a series of twenty two concise but weighty chapters, most of which are conducive to a separate meditation if the reader is so inclined.  The author makes liberal use of illustrations and quotations from both the religious and secular spheres to show that these qualities carry over into all areas of life.  I particularly like the quote (I forget to whom it was attributed) which said \\"It seems to me the best test of effective leadership is to see if anyone is following.\\"  Statements like that will either deepen your resolve to rise to God's leadership challenge, or else will make you reconsider whether you're suited to the task at all.  Excellent book!!!trations and quotations from both the religious and secular spheres to show that these qualities carry over into all areas of life.  I particularly like the quote (I forget to whom it was attributed) which said \\"It seems to me the best test of effective leadership is to see if anyone is following.\\"  Statements like that will either deepen your resolve to rise to God's leadership challenge, or else will make you reconsider whether you're suited to the task at all.  Excellent book!!!	2004-02-23
US	45865813	R2NPP3R87JI2K5	1581341725	595486734	The Consequences of Ideas: Understanding the Concepts that Shaped Our World	Books	3	5	8	N	N	A little cumbersome to read; limited practical use.	I'm a big fan of Dr. Sproul and his radio program &quot;Renewing Your Mind.&quot;  I appreciate the way he takes a philosopher's perspective of Christianity and analyzes/debunks competing worldviews in light of biblical teachings.  I had also read some of Sproul's other books, and thus was drawn to this rather intriguing offering.  It is intended to supplement the average believer's biblical knowledge with some essential grounding in philosophy, of which Christianity (some would argue) is just another variant.<br />The book promises to give an overview of major philosophical influences on modern western thought, and it does just that.  The presentation is essentially chronological, beginning with the early Greek masters and proceeding through the Renaissance to the likes of Descartes and Kant (where's Hegel?), and on into the twentieth century.  There is some loose structure beyond that as certain thinkers built upon the frameworks of some of their forebears, but otherwise the major movements of thought are unconnected.<br />Sproul presents the gist of each philosopher's major teachings, then analyzes it to identify its particular weaknesses, occasionally doing so in a dismissive way that sort of assumes that the reader understands the subject matter nearly as well as the author.  In general the writing style comes across very much like a professor's lecture, sometimes easy to follow, sometimes not.  In light of Sproul's radio presentation style, though, this was to be expected (although frankly I thought the style in &quot;Chosen By God&quot; was much preferable).<br />My real disappointment was that the book really had no specific direction other than as a quick trip through philosophical history.  There's no real point that's being made, and very little practical application that can be drawn from it for daily living.  The book ends rather abruptly as the discussion of the last thinker's position is concluded, without any real effort to draw it all together into a meaningful whole.<br />Maybe I'm just looking for more there than the author intended, maybe not.  Yes, it's valuable to edify your mind a little bit if (like me) you have no background in philosophy.  If that's not what you're after, however, I think you would be wasting your time with this one.o a meaningful whole.<br />Maybe I'm just looking for more there than the author intended, maybe not.  Yes, it's valuable to edify your mind a little bit if (like me) you have no background in philosophy.  If that's not what you're after, however, I think you would be wasting your time with this one.	2004-01-20
US	45865813	R2D7A6ZQB8FW1X	0875097081	970137180	The Attributes of God: A Journey into the Father's Heart	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Thought-provoking and personally challenging.	In this offering the esteemed theologian A.W. Tozer tackles the rather daunting task of trying to explain the attributes of God both individually and as they relate to each other and the whole of God's character.  While I don't think it's humanly possible to plumb this topic to its depths and get it right, I think Tozer does it about as well as can be expected of anyone who is limited by mortal flesh and a finite mind.<br />This is the first book I've ever read by this author, and have done so as part of my small group bible study.  Week by week, chapter by chapter, we have delved into topics like God's infinitude, mercy, grace, goodness, justice and immanence, to name just a few.  Most recently we have confronted the almost impossible to comprehend topics of God's holiness and perfection -- just try to define either one of these!  Tozer is quick to admit that he can't, but tries his best anyway.<br />This book is not just an academic exercise in theology, although it will certainly help you gain some solid doctrinal footing.  As the subtitle suggests, this is about trying to know God's heart, to understand who He really is in the rich diversity of his character traits.  All that God is, he is infinitely and perfectly.  The more we grow to understand these truths, the more we are challenged to grow and change, to be conformed to the image of Christ, who in turn is the express image of God's person (Heb. 1:3).<br />Tozer leads his readers on a soul-searching, convicting journey that forces us to come to grips with just how awesome and \\"other\\" this God is, and how much we differ from what He is and commands us to be.  The book is filled with marvelous illustrations that make these mind-bending concepts a little easier to grasp.  My personal favorite is the bucket in the ocean -- you'll understand when you read it for yourself.  Throughout the entire book, Tozer avoids sounding \\"theological\\", that is, he writes in simple, understandable language liberally sprinkled with colloquial, down-home talk.<br />If you've never read Tozer before, this is a great place to start.  There's also a second volume on this subject which will definitely find its way onto my personal reading list.  This book will expand your mind and challenge you to think about how your character stacks up to God's own, and His expectations for us.  \\"Be holy, for I am holy.\\"  Man, that's a tall order, but this book is a helpful step in the right direction.h colloquial, down-home talk.<br />If you've never read Tozer before, this is a great place to start.  There's also a second volume on this subject which will definitely find its way onto my personal reading list.  This book will expand your mind and challenge you to think about how your character stacks up to God's own, and His expectations for us.  \\"Be holy, for I am holy.\\"  Man, that's a tall order, but this book is a helpful step in the right direction.	2004-01-16
US	45865813	R2K219TE526PH9	0441581056	537591294	The 97th Step	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A pretty good prequel if you're a Matador fan.	Readers of Steve Perry's Matador trilogy will appreciate the background this volume provides, and in fact this makes a good chronological introduction for new readers of the series.  The 97th Step is a novel primarily focused on character development, which is out of the ordinary in the sci fi genre.  Your typical sci fi novel is far more focused on plot line and imaginative gadgetry.  Although this book includes both of these elements, the unmistakable emphasis is on tracing the evolution of Mwili the farmboy to Ferret the thief to Pen the martial priest.<br />Make no mistake, the story includes some riveting action sequences and pulse-pounding suspense, and these definitely keep it interesting.  However, there really is not much of a unifying plot other than as a \\"biography\\".  The author makes liberal use of the flashback technique to recount Mwili's teen years and escape from Cibule, as well as Ferret's escapades with his former partner/lover turned nemesis, Gworn.<br />I guess one thing that was a bit of a turn-off for me was the author's undue emphasis (in my humble opinion) on sexuality.  Admittedly this is part of Mwili/Ferret/Pen's personal history and character makeup, particularly as it relates to other figures like Shar, Gworn and Moon.  However, this is not an element I usually look for in this genre (in fact, it's normally absent altogether), and I personally prefer to keep it that way.  Call me an old-fashioned prude, but I remember the days when plenty of great sci fi novelists wrote excellent stories without the need to inject gratuitous sex.  But for this, I might give this book 4 stars.<br />But don't let my personal hangups turn you away from an otherwise good book, and definitely a great trilogy.  The Matador series is a very enjoyable read, and The 97th Step makes it complete.	2003-12-10
US	45865813	R31AYSW5O7FBAY	0970433026	280246772	Who Will Be Left Behind and When?	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Great intro to pre-wrath teachings, defies the &quot;majority.&quot;	Thanks to Dave Bussard for adding to the slowly expanding literature on the pre-wrath interpretation of end time events.  This book is intended as an introduction to its fundamental premises, not in the same degree of depth as Van Kampen or Rosenthal, but it definitely achieves its purpose.<br />Dave touches sufficiently on all of the key scriptures and doctrinal issues which underlie pre-wrath theology, while making sure that the main tenets of pretribulationism are exposed for the fallacies that they are.  The author stands up boldly as one voice in the face of a large crowd of opposition, and presents bible truth on this subject without apology.  And he does it all with a very humble, balanced demeanor which stands in striking contrast to the vitriol that characterized Tim LaHaye's pretrib &quot;classic,&quot; Rapture Under Attack.<br />Dave's approach is to take the key passages of scripture which address the occurrence and timing of the rapture, and walk through them from the prophets to Revelation, paying as much attention to each as is warranted.  I particularly liked chapter 8, &quot;Putting It All Together,&quot; which links all of these essential verses into a single flowing narrative.  I was impressed!  I was also challenged to reconsider the scriptural basis for mainstream teachings on the so-called &quot;one world government.&quot;<br />The best part, of course, was the final chapter that described what it will be like for those Christians who endure persecution under the Antichrist to look up and see the signs in the sun, moon and stars, and to know that their day of redemption has finally arrived.  We hear much in pretrib teachings about so-called &quot;tribulation saints.&quot;  Well, if we turn out to be the generation that is raptured, WE will be the tribulation saints, because we will NOT be raptured out before the start of the 70th week.  Dave does a great job of driving this point home, and I commend this book to the reading of every believer who wants a better understanding of bible prophecy.o wants a better understanding of bible prophecy.	2002-10-13
US	45865813	R6QD7L6PRO63Q	0595159788	211143914	Should the Church Teach Tithing? A Theologian's Conclusions about a Taboo Doctrine	Books	3	95	114	N	N	Deals a mortal blow to false teachings on tithing, BUT ...	I have to give Dr. Kelly's book a mixed review.  On the one hand, I expected  a solid analysis of biblical tithing and grace giving, and that is exactly what I got.  Dr. Kelly leaves no stone unturned as he vigorously dismantles the fallacious teachings about tithing under the new covenant.  His arguments generally are very persuasive and well backed by scripture, and he is quite thorough to make sure that a broad range of opposing arguments are dealt with.  At times, though, the reading becomes somewhat dry and occasionally redundant.  Roughly the first half of the book analyzes old testament texts, while the remainder of the book examines new testament passages.<br /><br />Although I thought Dr. Kelly did an excellent job in this regard, nevertheless I cannot say that I agree with him on every point.  For example, he takes the position that there were three tithes under Jewish law, and while this may be a purely academic point for modern Christians, it seems fairly clear to me that scripture only teaches two at the most, and more likely only one.  It seems to me that Dr. Kelly asserts the existence of three old covenant tithes more to confound modern tithe advocates than because scripture really teaches it.  Also, I was not entirely impressed with Dr. Kelly's treatment of Melchizedek in his analysis of Genesis 14.  He makes much of Melchizedek's reference to \\"El Elyon\\" and Abraham's naming of \\"Yahweh,\\" but Exodus 6:2-3 clearly teaches that God had not revealed himself to Abraham as \\"Yahweh\\" but as \\"El Shaddai.\\"<br /><br />Additionally, there are occasions when he leaps to conclusions which I do not believe are warranted by the scriptural text.  This was most prevalent in Dr. Kelly's discussion of whether modern gospel workers should receive full-time monetary support.  In my opinion, his analysis became unbalanced here in his zeal to take away every possible argument from tithe  advocates.  In so doing, Dr. Kelly throws out the baby with the proverbial bath water, or to borrow the expression from the Vietnam era, he destroys the village in order to save it.  His arguments and conclusions on this subject, I believe, completely miss the spirit of the teachings of 1 Cor. 9 and related passages.  Just because the tithe is not for the new covenant, this does not mean that those who devote their lives to full time ministry should not receive at least modest support from free will offerings.  I don't know many who enter the ministry with the expectation of getting rich.  Those who do end up financially successful usually do it through other means, such as authoring or speaking at seminars.<br /><br />I also believe he places far more emphasis than is proper on the single reference in Acts 18:3 on Paul being a tentmaker.  That single occurrence was when Paul was ministering at Corinth, undeniably the most carnal church of the early new testament age, and was doing so specifically to take away any occasion for criticism.  But to argue that gospel workers must hold full time secular employment and minister only in their free time (something which is becoming increasingly rare nowadays) is tantamount to arguing that God never calls anyone into \\"full time\\" ministry and that those who claim to be so called must be incorrect, or are doing so out of base greed.<br /><br />In summary, Dr. Kelly's book starts well enough, and does a great job of debunking the myth of new covenant tithing.  However, from there he continues to charge forward rather blindly and does, I believe, more harm than good in his teachings about financial support for modern gospel workers. Definitely read this book, because it contains much of value, but read it with careful discernment.he expression from the Vietnam era, he destroys the village in order to save it.  His arguments and conclusions on this subject, I believe, completely miss the spirit of the teachings of 1 Cor. 9 and related passages.   Just because the tithe is not for the new covenant, this does not mean that those who devote their lives to full time ministry should not receive at least modest support from free will offerings.  I don't know many who enter the ministry with the expectation of getting rich.  Those who do end up financially successful usually do it through other means, such as authoring or speaking at seminars.    I also believe he places far more emphasis than is proper on the single reference in Acts 18:3 on Paul being a tentmaker.  That single occurrence was when Paul was ministering at Corinth, undeniably the most carnal church of the early new testament age, and was doing so specifically to take away any occasion for criticism.  But to argue that gospel workers must hold full time secular employment and minister only in their free time (something which is becoming increasingly rare nowadays) is tantamount to arguing that God never calls anyone into \\"full time\\" ministry and that those who claim to be so called must be incorrect, or are doing so out of base greed.    In summary, Dr. Kelly's book starts well enough, and does a great job of debunking the myth of new covenant tithing.  However, from there he continues to charge forward rather blindly and does, I believe, more harm than good in his teachings about financial support for modern gospel workers. Definitely read this book, because it contains much of value, but read it with careful discernment.	2002-10-05
US	45865813	R1OR1YACQRFGAN	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Keeping it simple, like it's supposed to be.	For all of his well deserved reputation as a brilliant thinker and writer, C.S. Lewis demonstrates it best by resisting the urge to 'sound brilliant.' In the three books that comprise \\"Mere Christianity,\\" Lewis shows off his mastery of discussing the simplicity of the gospel in simple terms without losing one iota of his intellectual or philosophical punch. Quite the opposite is true, in fact -- his lack of ostentation only adds force to arguments about a subject which shouldn't be all that complicated, but for some reason always seem to come out that way.<br />One of the reasons Lewis was able to achieve this balance was that the book is actually derived from transcripts of a series of radio talks which Lewis presented in England during the WW2 years. As a layperson, lacking advanced theological training, and speaking to an audience of laypersons, Lewis delivered his talks with none of the jargon that typically accompany this type of discussion. In fact, when the talks were \\"cleaned up\\" and adapted into book form, Lewis intentionally chose to retain the folksy, familiar manner of speech that had characterized the original presentation.<br />Lewis tackles a broad variety of subjects without hinting at too many \\"doctrinal distinctives,\\" things that tend to be particular to one denomination or another.  His focus was on the common ground that the great majority of Christians can agree on.  I was particularly impressed with his powerful apology for the existence of God. The classic ontological and teleological arguments are laid aside as Lewis proves with undeniable clarity and reason the logical necessity of God based on the innate human sense of right and wrong. Even the hardest skeptics will be challenged by this simple yet brilliant presentation. Whether you're a believer or a naysayer, this book will expand your mind.	2002-09-06
US	45865813	R2KJKGRLS6K5ST	1579242057	910141313	Changed into His Image: God's Plan for Transforming Your Life	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Essential for growing Christians and those who lead them!	My first exposure to Jim Berg's book was as a student in my church's Sunday school class.  Our church leaders taught an overview of this book's main points over a period of about three months.  However, it was not until I actually sat down and read the book for myself that I began to appreciate it fully.<br />Berg goes to great lengths to dispel many popular misconceptions about the Christian life and how biblical change occurs.  He then draws heavily on the authority of scripture to contrast the world's way with God's plan for sanctifying his children.  There are illustrations a-plenty and even a few hypothetical examples to show what these principles look like in \\"real life.\\"<br />At the end of each chapter is a section called \\"Time for Reflection\\" which encourages the reader to make the leap from doctrinal theory to personal application.  Each chapter also includes \\"Words for Disciple Makers,\\" which are targeted toward church leaders and provide useful insights in how to apply these truths as pastors, teachers and counselors.  Finally, the book includes appendices with various charts and self-evaluation exercises, and words of counsel to Christians facing different types of issues, such as worry or anger.<br />Overall I was quite pleased with this book, and vacillated between giving it four or five stars.  I settled on four because at times the reading got a little dry, while at other times it seemed too \\"theological\\" for many readers or too rudimentary for more mature believers -- in other words, the target audience seemed to shift around a fair bit.<br />One last note, for what it's worth, the author's affiliation is of the fundamentalist Bob Jones University persuasion, and all scripture references are to the KJV.  Even though my background is somewhat less conservative, I don't think this detracts from the overall value of the book (although others may think it does).  I have definitely been challenged by this book, and have seen some areas in my Christian walk that could stand some adjustment.  Absolutely worth reading, in my opinion.n walk that could stand some adjustment.  Absolutely worth reading, in my opinion.	2002-08-15
US	45865813	R1Q4GG54NVVBNG	0310209765	915243460	Living Fearlessly	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Who says this book is just for women???	Okay, I admit I felt a little odd when I picked up my wife's copy of Living Fearlessly.  I mean, this is a woman's book, right?  Wrong!  This is a Christian's book ... forget the stereotypes.<br /><br />I found this sitting on our bookshelf right at a time when I was fighting an intense spiritual battle against fear and anxiety.  I know that scripture teaches us not to live in fear, but it's a hard lesson to get that knowledge from your head to your heart.  Thanks so much to Sheila Walsh for making that lesson a little easier.<br /><br />The insights offered in this book are born of Sheila's actual life experiences, most of them crucial tests of her faith and character.  She opens up some of the darkest and most personal secrets of her own life and bares her soul for all to see, just so we can learn from her experience.  It is extremely rare to read such an emotionally gripping work, primarily because I felt like I could relate to so much of what she described in her own life.  It was like looking in a mirror.<br /><br />But it's not all seriousness and tears.  There is a bright and happy wit that comes shining through in some wonderfully funny stories and insights.  This book is a beautifully balanced look at some of life's toughest questions, and one of life's toughest lessons -- how to find joy in Jesus Christ in the midst of your darkest hours.<br /><br />No, this isn't just a woman's book.  Take it from a man who read it, loved it, fought back tears, and learned from it.  In the midst of life's battles, it's encouraging to know that others before me have fought the same battles and won.  Giving someone hope in the midst of their fearful times is a great gift indeed.	2002-04-24
US	45865813	R1UMEAUYT7QBG0	0849943264	96543222	The Mystery of God's Will	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Straight talk and wonderful insights for struggling people.	Have you ever wrestled with God in an effort to discern his will for your life? If so, I believe you'll benefit immensely from this recent offering by Chuck Swindoll. It has been an invaluable resource for me, because in recent months I have realized that the Lord is calling me away from my career as a lawyer and into full time Christian ministry. Talk about needing to figure out God's will!!<br />This book has no \\"magic bullets\\" in it. It can't answer all your questions about where God is leading you. Chuck admits that, and makes no bones about it, in the first pages. But what he offers instead are some solid, practical insights from scripture that should affect our attitude about God's will. He emphasizes God's wonderful attributes, and in particular his sovereignty, to give comfort and hope to those who are confused about the Lord's purpose for their lives. <br />Chuck also firmly yet lovingly reminds how NOT to try to figure out God's will. This is neither rocket science nor witchcraft -- it's pure holy mystery. You can't figure it out by coming in the side door. The overwhelming emphasis is on learning to trust the God who loves us infinitely, and who has our best interests at heart. In other words, God's will is in the journey more than the destination as we walk with him in that relationship of love and trust.<br />I recommend this book very highly for every believer, but especially for anyone who is going through a major crisis of faith in seeking God's will. You won't get hard answers, but you'll get insights that will speak to your heart. Giant thanks to brother Chuck!	2002-04-12
US	45865813	R3T9OWVYOIDSIY	0764223518	394805133	Deepening Your Conversation with God: Learning to Love to Pray (Pastor's Soul)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	An opportunity for us to learn from the author's experience.	If there's one thing every Christian should get wrapped around, it's a solid, meaningful, soul-filling prayer life.  Yet this is lacking in most of our lives, and mine is really no different.  Ben Patterson's book on learning to love prayer has been refreshing and insightful.  It offers a look into some deeply personal episodes in the life of a man who has learned by hard experience how critical it is to connect with God in prayer.  And we have an opportunity as his readers to learn from his experiences, or at least to prepare ourselves for our own experiences.<br />Seldom will you read a more honest, open, unabashedly human account of a person's journey toward spiritual maturity.  Patterson is not afraid to lay his weaknesses and failings out on the table, or to discuss some things that might make some modern Christians squeamish.  But he does it lovingly and at times humorously, with plenty of helpful illustrations along the way.  I personally found the chapter on fasting to be of great benefit during one of my own spiritual struggles when I was just beginning to practice this as a spiritual discipline.<br />If you're searching to find true substance in your prayer life, or if you're looking to take an already solid prayer life to the next level, give this book a try.  I think it has something to offer to every believer.	2002-02-19
US	45865813	R3T3IUE9Q5R49S	089957663X	730898320	The Complete Word Study Dictionary: New Testament	Books	5	41	43	N	N	An incredible resource for in-depth bible study.	Imagine the Greek lexicon from your Strong's concordance on steroids.  That's right.  Zodhiates takes the Strong's Greek lexicon and amplifies it a hundredfold in terms of detail.  An entry that might receive just a few lines of fine print in Strong's is instead expanded to whole columns or pages of discussion, with every conceivable nuance explored.  Grammatical variations, derivations, synonyms and antonyms, and both lexical and scriptural cross-references are added to make this a truly invaluable study aid.<br /><br />I cannot overstate my gratitude to the author for this immensely useful and insightful volume.  This book is the perfect companion to your Strong's Exhaustive Concordance, because its entries are directly keyed to the Strong's numbering system.<br /><br />In a nutshell, if you are at all serious about bible study, or think you will be or want to be, this resource will be of great assistance in your efforts.  Keep in mind that this is only the new testament lexicon.  The author also has a separate word study dictionary for the old testament.  If you find this helpful, also check out the author's interlinear new testament or Jay Green's interlineal bible.	2002-02-15
US	45865813	R4UCI60C2OU0O	0813320801	305279417	Crete: The Battle And The Resistance (History and Warfare)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A solid piece of work from a great historian.	The great Anthony Beevor does it again with his detailed account of the seldom examined battle of Crete.  Although it reads like a somewhat dry history book, the narrative tends to flow fairly well.<br />Beevor gives context to the story by discussing the strategic importance of the battle and giving a decent overview of the battles in the Balkans and Greece, as well as some idea of events in north Africa and elsewhere in the Mediterranean theater.  From the broad strategic scope he &quot;zooms in&quot; to focus on several key sectors on the island itself as the battle unfolds:  Maleme, Suda Bay, and Rethymno.  He also adds a personal flavor to it by following the exploits of several individual officers and soldiers.  Also, he provides an objective analysis of some critical tactical decisions which cost the British the battle.<br />To sum it all up, this book is a valuable addition to the library of anyone who fancies himself a student of WW2.  No historian's perspective on the war would be complete without understanding what happened at Crete and why.  Beevor's book offers a fine opportunity to get familiar with the subject on a reasonably detailed level.	2002-01-10
US	45865813	R3SENEAA5VU49E	0306804484	978749168	The Gi's War (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Worth reading if you enjoy WW2 history.	Overall I enjoyed this book, and found it to be relatively easy reading.  Like any good oral history, it focuses on a handful of personalities and tracks their experiences throughout the relevant period ... in this case, the whole American involvement in WW2.  A good example is Cpl. Moglia, a member of the First Infantry Division, who is introduced during the pre-war years.  His participation in the various major campaigns, with the attendant promotions up through the ranks, provides a bit of &quot;personal&quot; cohesion to the chronological narrative.<br />The value of the book depends on what you're looking for.  It is intended to encapsulate the whole GI experience in the African and European theaters, and does a fair job of that.  Moglia is joined by Lt. John Downing as main narrative figure to give some insight into life in the junior officer ranks.  There isn't much depth, however, to the individual stories.  We learn something about what these men did, but not much about the men themselves.  The author bounces around quite a bit between subjects, and spends a fair amount of time in the upper echelons to make sure the &quot;big picture&quot; remains clear to the reader.<br />As a historical tool this book's value is obviously limited, since there is no real attempt to provide a detailed account of even primary engagements.  Such an endeavor would fill a much larger volume than this.  In general, it's an enjoyable look into the experience of the average GI, and worth reading in that respect.  For anything else, I would look for a more serious treatment of the subject.	2001-12-27
US	45865813	R1VQCQ5X4GOECS	006092196X	487553116	Hitler's Last Gamble: The Battle of the Bulge, December 1944-January 1945	Books	2	9	15	N	N	It takes a labor of love to finish reading this book.	I love to read nearly anything and everything I can find about WW2 history.  This was one of those rare instances, however, where I picked up a book, read about half of it, then put it back down never to finish it.  I just couldn't force myself to read any more.<br />Although the Battle of the Bulge is without a doubt one of the more interesting episodes of the war, and Dupuy provides a detailed account, in my opinion he's just a little too detailed.  This book is written for someone who has a little more serious interest in mind than just an amateur historian such as myself.  It is dry and choppy in its presentation.  The thing that I found most distracting was the frequent digressions into mini-biographies every time a new general or other major figure was introduced to the narrative.<br />For example, a division commander is mentioned for the first time, and immediately the author cuts to a two page synopsis of the man's life and military career.  He then abruptly shifts back to the main narrative after having led the reader on a merry rabbit chase.  And he does this over and over and over again.  Very hard to read unless you're a person who likes that sort of thing.  I'm not one of those, and would not recommend this to anyone who is not a bit more serious student of WW2.	2001-12-27
US	45865813	R29FRGQHE00VV9	0849913233	396554772	The Grace Awakening	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The real meaning of &quot;the blessings of liberty.&quot;	We are so quick to defend our secular freedoms and liberties, fleeing to the Constitution every time there is even a hint that one of them may have been infringed. And well we should. That's why that document was written, to allow us to enjoy the blessings of the liberty that inheres in every man.<br />Chuck Swindoll reminds us in this book, though, that we as Christians are far less assertive to defend the greater liberty which we have, and should enjoy, in Christ. We readily allow ourselves to be enslaved by legalistic teachings and by the bondage of other men's consciences. This book raises a battle cry to stand up and fight for the freedom granted us by the grace of God, and to stop living like servants of the law. It's a call to revolution in the church, beginning at the level of each individual Christian, to exchange legalism for true Holy Spirit-led maturity.<br />It's high time a prominent figure in the church like brother Chuck stood to the fore with this message. To our shame, there are far too few with the boldness to say what needs to be said. We're too concerned about breaking with the traditions of men, or of being branded a &quot;liberal&quot; by our legalistic peers or pastors. Hogwash! &quot;Liberty&quot; is not the same thing as &quot;lawlessness&quot; or &quot;license,&quot; as Chuck Swindoll so eloquently distinguishes. We hear this charge all the time from legalists who apparently don't think that the Holy Spirit which indwells each believer is big enough or powerful enough to guide our daily walk without resort to external regulations.  No, Christian liberty is not about living in spiritual anarchy.  Rather, it's the freedom to choose one's own walk and path to Christian righteousness within the boundaries set by scripture, which, by the way, are much less restrictive than so many Christian leaders would have us believe.  Chuck Swindoll firmly yet lovingly takes legalistic teachers to task as he explains the difference.<br />As an adult bible study teacher in a Baptist church, I have felt the strong need to cry out against the pervasive and spirit quenching stranglehold of legalism in my own church. I have been teaching my class on this very topic for the past six weeks or so, and Chuck's book has been a wonderful source of insight and validation for my message. &quot;Ye are not under the law, but under grace.&quot; Okay, so let's live like it!<br />God bless you brother Chuck, and thank you for a long overdue wake-up call.tudy teacher in a Baptist church, I have felt the strong need to cry out against the pervasive and spirit quenching stranglehold of legalism in my own church. I have been teaching my class on this very topic for the past six weeks or so, and Chuck's book has been a wonderful source of insight and validation for my message. &quot;Ye are not under the law, but under grace.&quot; Okay, so let's live like it!<br />God bless you brother Chuck, and thank you for a long overdue wake-up call.	2001-12-06
US	45865813	R39RUOX3CHYTE9	0840731604	815489239	Prewrath Rapture of the Church	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Ought to be required reading for every pretribber.	As a recovering pretribber who has recently been &quot;converted&quot; to the prewrath position, I cannot recommend this book too highly. In recent months I have been wrestling with the flat-out scriptural instability of the pretrib position, and I began searching for a viable alternative. I found it in Robert Van Kampen's book &quot;The Rapture Question Answered&quot; and in this offering from Marvin Rosenthal.<br />I was quite impressed with the author's methodical and extremely well supported exposition of not only the weaknesses of pretribulation rapturism, but also the unassailable strengths of the prewrath position. Without a doubt, the critical feature of this book is the distinction the author makes between the various segments of the 70th week of Daniel. Rosenthal conclusively debunks the fallacy that the entire 70th week is the &quot;tribulation period&quot; or the Day of the Lord -- both of these notions being the result of inexcusably sloppy exegesis. Once this foundation is laid, the rest of the puzzle pieces drop effortlessly into place.  Although there were a few very minor details where I'm not sure I necessarily agree with the author (for example, he states that he &quot;strongly concurs&quot; that the two witnesses will operate during the second half of the 70th week, but doesn't say why), these points do not detract one iota from the compelling strength of his main thesis.<br />I wish that there was a way to convince every pretribber to read this book with an open mind and a prayerful heart. I am certain that they would not be pretribbers much longer. Even the most hardcore, committed adherents to the pretrib position, however, if they are intellectually honest, would be forced to take a long, hard look at what they believe and why. That's how powerful Rosenthal's exposition is, and it should be, because it comes straight from the word of God.<br />The last days are upon us, in case you hadn't noticed. Rosenthal's book dispels the pretrib myth which, while well-intentioned, is going to cause untold numbers of saints to enter the 70th week completely unprepared for what they will have to face. Read this book, and be prepared. Those days will be here before you know it.ch, while well-intentioned, is going to cause untold numbers of saints to enter the 70th week completely unprepared for what they will have to face. Read this book, and be prepared. Those days will be here before you know it.	2001-10-31
US	45865813	R2LN6RYQR3M560	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent overview of election and predestination.	In &quot;Chosen by God,&quot; R.C. Sproul does a fabulous job of explaining and defending the Christian doctrines of election and predestination from a Calvinist viewpoint.  This book has proved to be an invaluable resource -- and a source of validation -- for people who, like me, are constantly bombarded by Arminian theology.<br />Dr. Sproul takes the classic acronym TULIP and expounds on each of its five major elements, actually suggesting alternate letters to comprise the acronym -- I think he ended up with something like RSLEP, which doesn't exactly roll off the tongue.  Much of the book focuses on the critical need to understand the concept of human depravity and fallenness -- the &quot;T&quot; in TULIP.  Once that doctrine is adequately communicated, the remaining four points follow almost of logical necessity.  I personally love his nutshell summary of these great truths:  &quot;Some receive justice; others receive mercy.  No one receives injustice.&quot;<br />Dr. Sproul is very thorough in defending the Calvinist model against all of the main criticisms and arguments leveled by teachers of the Arminian position.  No stone is left unturned as he debunks each of these unbiblical myths.  And he does it all in an extremely readable manner.  The book is written for the layperson, and is very successful in speaking to its target audience without sounding like a dry dissertation.<br />When I finished this book, I was left with a new appreciation for just how marvelous God's grace is to us as sinful human beings.  I was at the same time truly grateful and humbled that God would choose me of all people to enjoy his mercy, salvation and eternal blessings.  In other words, Dr. Sproul provides a gift of perspective by articulating these wonderful doctrines clearly and in a way that hits the reader right where he lives.<br />This book is a &quot;must read&quot; for every Christian.  Having a fuller understanding of these truths can only strengthen your walk with God.	2001-10-03
US	45865813	R20JSWIPTLM7RB	0785212159	420469986	The King James Version Parallel Bible Commentary	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	An excellent resource, but not infallible or inspired.	This book is the result of extensive collaboration by many great minds in the field of evangelical Christian theology, and it shows.  The analysis is detailed and well thought out, and provides valuable insights into passages of scripture both familiar and obscure.<br />The format is simple:  the full text of the KJV in the left column, with individual verses separated by as much space as necessary to accommodate the attendant commentary in the right column.  Direct quotes to scripture in the commentary portion are in bold type for quick recognition.<br />Although I use this resource on a regular basis in my own Bible study and class preparation, my enthusiasm for it is tempered by several factors.  First, there is a notable absence of consistency in terms of how much detail is afforded to various passages.  In other words, some relatively &quot;unimportant&quot; topics are exhaustively discussed, while other more central doctrines are given somewhat cursory treatment, and still other controversial passages and doctrines seem to be avoided altogether.<br />Second, the denominational bias of the contributors occasionally shows through very strongly.  On those points, particularly on some unclear doctrines, the views of the commentators are nothing more than statements of opinion, and should be treated  appropriately in deciding how heavily to rely on them.  For example, look at any passage dealing with alcohol consumption, tithing, or election/predestination, and you are left with little doubt that this book was written from a Baptist perspective.<br />Overall though, I find this commentary to be a valuable addition to my personal research library.  I regularly turn to it to see what some of these great minds have to say, keeping in mind that the authors are not infallible and their work not inspired.	2001-10-03
US	45865813	R1KZT0MVDA2EN3	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Excellent overview of election and predestination.	In &quot;Chosen by God,&quot; R.C. Sproul does a fabulous job of explaining and defending the Christian doctrines of election and predestination from a Calvinist viewpoint.  This book has proved to be an invaluable resource -- and a source of validation -- for people who, like me, are constantly bombarded by Arminian theology.  <br />Dr. Sproul takes the classic acronym TULIP and expounds on each of its five major elements, actually suggesting alternate letters to comprise the acronym -- I think he ended up with something like RSLEP, which doesn't exactly roll off the tongue.  Much of the book focuses on the critical need to understand the concept of human depravity and fallenness -- the &quot;T&quot; in TULIP.  Once that doctrine is adequately communicated, the remaining four points follow almost of logical necessity.  I personally love his nutshell summary of these great truths:  &quot;Some receive justice; others receive mercy.  No one receives injustice.&quot;<br />Dr. Sproul is very thorough in defending the Calvinist model against all of the main criticisms and arguments leveled by Arminians.  No stone is left unturned as he debunks each of these unbiblical myths.  And he does it all in an extremely readable manner.  The book is written for the layperson, and is very successful in speaking to its target audience without sounding like a dry dissertation.<br />When I finished this book, I was left with a new appreciation for just how marvelous God's grace is to us as sinful human beings.  I was at the same time truly grateful and humbled that God would choose me of all people to enjoy his mercy, salvation and eternal blessings.  In other words, Dr. Sproul provides a gift of perspective by articulating these wonderful doctrines clearly and in a way that hits the reader right where he lives.<br />This book is a &quot;must read&quot; for every Christian.  Having a fuller understanding of these truths can only strengthen your walk with God.	2001-10-03
US	45865813	RO8GZ5AYIN8ED	0849913330	315060290	Intimacy With the Almighty: Encountering Christ in the Secret Places of Your Life	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Valuable insights, but could have been much deeper.	Let me preface my remarks by saying that I'm a HUGE fan of brother Chuck, and I have great love and admiration for him as one of today's preeminent Christian leaders.  Of all the persons I could choose to emulate, it would be Chuck Swindoll.  In reviewing this book, my comments are intended to be totally objective and not a criticism of the author.<br />My main impression of this book is that, while it provides some valuable insights about some spiritual disciplines that every committed Christian should undertake, it stops far short of being a truly practical resource.  Chuck Swindoll steps aside briefly from his hectic life to take stock of some key things that many (most?) Christians miss in their day to day walk with God.  He introduces some disciplines which we would all do well to practice, but doesn't really talk about the &quot;how.&quot;<br />In other words, and at the risk of sounding flippant, my reaction on finishing this book (about a one-hour undertaking) was:  &quot;Tell me something I don't already know.&quot;  As a believer who seeks a closer relationship with God, I have long since recognized the need to try to slow down my lifestyle and find time to get alone with God for prayer, study and meditation.  I have been struggling with these very issues for some time:  how to balance work, parenthood, church activities, household chores, rest, etc. while still finding a way to spend a meaningful amount of time communing with God.<br />It was my hope that this book would be more of a &quot;how-to guide&quot; than just a simple overview of these truths, and in that sense I was a bit disappointed.  Don't misunderstand me, I think the book is great as far as it goes, but I wish Chuck had taken the time to take this important subject into much greater detail.  He speaks of &quot;depth&quot; but doesn't really provide it here.  Had he done that, I'm sure I could have derived much greater benefit from it.	2001-09-17
US	45865813	RU0N2QX88LWNZ	0812566556	894581121	Soldiers Live (Chronicles of The Black Company)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	BRAVO!  Please tell me this is not truly the end...	In typical fashion, Glen Cook takes his readers on a thrill-packed excursion of plot twists which leaves them never able to guess what will happen next.  Cook masterfully wraps up a fabulous fantasy series with an ending that is so perfectly fitting, and yet so completely unexpected until the hints begin to drop in the closing pages.<br />It is a hard thing for me, like many other readers of the &quot;Black Company&quot; series, to walk away from the characters we've grown to know and love over the years.  Admittedly, not many of them are left alive by the time Cook wraps up this book (but I won't say who).  The author ties off pretty much all of the loose ends, but nevertheless leaves just enough room to permit a great follow-up series if the mood ever takes him.<br />I cannot find enough superlatives to express how much I have enjoyed this series, and &quot;Soldiers Live&quot; in particular.  The series combines the best in high fantasy, with plenty of powerful wizardry, with the gritty, mundane perspective of the &quot;grunt&quot; soldier on the ground.  If you've never tried any these books, I recommend you begin all the way at the beginning with &quot;The Black Company.&quot;  You'll soon be addicted and reading &quot;Soldiers Live&quot; before you realize how quickly you've devoured all the intervening books.  Mr. Cook, please give us more!	2001-09-04
US	45865813	R2VOEGLK2BA6HB	0080374379	329455826	The Forgotten Soldier: The Classic WWII Autobiography (Brassey's Commemorative Series WWII)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	War from the perspective of the average soldier	War is a horrible and unglamorous endeavor, regardless of Hollywood's best efforts to put a noble face on it.  Guy Sajer's essential message is just that.  Throughout this sometimes mundane, sometimes terrifying account of one German soldier's experiences on the Eastern Front, the drumbeat of this pervasive theme steadily grows to a crescendo.<br />The author begins his service as a support soldier, but later opts for the &quot;glory&quot; of the infantry, and is assigned to the Gross Deutschland division.  His story ranges from the stark terror and carnage of a heated firefight to the misery and hunger of a defeated army fleeing the crushing Soviet onslaught.  The reader cannot help feeling empathy for the tragic figure who evolves from naive recruit to veteran to disillusioned refugee to cynical survivor.  But there is a triumph in survival.<br />I have heard and read several critics who dismiss this book as a fraud based on some historical inaccuracies and the absence of the author's name from the Gross Deutschland's rolls.  Even as a lover of military history, I'm not unduly concerned with those things.  I don't rely on this book as a primary source for historical research.  Rather, I read it as a window into the mind of the forgotten foot soldier, much as I would read Jakob Walther's &quot;Diary.&quot;  For that purpose, it is truly an excellent work, and I highly recommend it.	2001-09-04
US	45865813	R3KRVP3JXHHGDE	0800756312	584730804	The Rapture Question Answered: Plain and Simple	Books	5	51	52	N	Y	Every Christian should read this book -- truth revealed!!!	I recently wrote a review of Tim LaHaye's book &quot;Rapture Under Attack&quot; in which I expressed my uncertainty about the scriptural validity of the pretribulation timing of the rapture.  Some helpful Amazon-ers who read that review pointed me to Robert van Kampen's book &quot;The Rapture Question Answered.&quot;<br />Before I picked up this book, though, I read some reviews of it and learned that its basic premise was to place the timing of the rapture after the sixth seal of Revelation, but before the &quot;wrath of God.&quot;  Without knowing any more detail than this, I began a renewed study and analysis of Revelation, Daniel, the Thessalonian epistles and the Olivet discourse to see if this interpretation could be valid.  I mean, it wasn't pretrib, it wasn't posttrib, or even traditional midtrib.  This was a completely different take on the subject... but it all seemed to fit.  All of the &quot;difficult&quot; passages that I couldn't reconcile before suddenly began to drop neatly into place.  I began to realize that I may have found the answer I  had been looking for about the timing of the rapture!<br />THEN I ordered this book and read it, and to my profound pleasure, I found that it not only validated my own conclusions, but explained them at a level of detail and thoroughness that is to be expected from any exegete who wants to be taken seriously.  Robert van Kampen definitely rises to the occasion in &quot;The Rapture Question Answered&quot;, and needs to be given real consideration even by the most devoted adherents to the pretrib position.  The compelling scripture-based analysis presented in this book simply cannot be dismissed out-of-hand by critics as a &quot;false teaching,&quot; which, unfortunately and disturbingly, is all too common of a reaction from many who purport to be serious bible scholars.<br />One of the fundamental misconceptions that Mr. van Kampen clears up is that the entire tribulation period is NOT the &quot;wrath of God.&quot;  Rather, the &quot;wrath of God&quot; only begins after the seal judgments, and only after the severe persecution which arises under the &quot;wrath of Satan.&quot;  Another fallacy of the pretrib position is debunked, namely, that the church will escape all of the tribulation.  Additionally, van Kampen shows conclusively that the doctrine of &quot;imminency&quot; is the classical pretrib sense lacks scriptural foundation.  Although the author occasionally takes pretribbers to task for some of their inconsistencies and logical lapses, he does it without adopting the condescending and antagonistic tone that was so evident in &quot;Rapture Under Attack.&quot;<br />This book is a must-read for every serious student of eschatology, even those who may disagree with its conclusions.  If nothing else, it will force proponents of competing views to take a second look at the scriptural and analytical bases for their conclusions.  I also recommend this book for every Christian who wants to have a clearer view of what scripture teaches on the timing of the rapture.  Most of us have received a steady diet of pretrib throughout our Christian experience, but for me at least, that ended when I read this book.  I now have little doubt that the pre-wrath position is by far the most convincing both scripturally and intellectually.Rather, the &quot;wrath of God&quot; only begins after the seal judgments, and only after the severe persecution which arises under the &quot;wrath of Satan.&quot;  Another fallacy of the pretrib position is debunked, namely, that the church will escape all of the tribulation.  Additionally, van Kampen shows conclusively that the doctrine of &quot;imminency&quot; is the classical pretrib sense lacks scriptural foundation.  Although the author occasionally takes pretribbers to task for some of their inconsistencies and logical lapses, he does it without adopting the condescending and antagonistic tone that was so evident in &quot;Rapture Under Attack.&quot;<br />This book is a must-read for every serious student of eschatology, even those who may disagree with its conclusions.  If nothing else, it will force proponents of competing views to take a second look at the scriptural and analytical bases for their conclusions.  I also recommend this book for every Christian who wants to have a clearer view of what scripture teaches on the timing of the rapture.  Most of us have received a steady diet of pretrib throughout our Christian experience, but for me at least, that ended when I read this book.  I now have little doubt that the pre-wrath position is by far the most convincing both scripturally and intellectually.	2001-09-03
US	45865813	R21YLUHR7OBLXF	0812521390	825946760	The Black Company (Chronicles of The Black Company #1)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tough, gritty, unglamorous action -- Fabulous!	I recently finished reading the Black Company series of novels, to which I was first introduced in the mid-80's.  I have read countless fantasy novels over the years, but this is far and away the best of the best.  Glen Cook displays a mastery of combining high-power epic fantasy with the gritty, unglamorous realism of a soldier's life.<br /><br />The Black Company tells the exploits of the last of the Free Companies of Khatovar, whose 400 years of mercenary tradition have carved a great swath across the history of Cook's world.  The story is told from the first person perspective of Croaker, the Company's physician and annalist, whose job it is to record the Company's unfolding narrative.  In this first volume, the Company enters the service of one of the powerful and malevolent henchmen of the Lady, a dark sorceress whose shadow bestrides an enormous but weakening empire.  Their task is to fend off the onslaught of the numerically superior Rebel, who seeks the Lady's overthrow.  The Company is strong and wily, but with this contract it may have bitten off more than it can chew.<br /><br />Glen Cook's characters are wonderfully memorable, unique, and frequently humorous.  The dialogue is realistic and often witty, the action is intense, and the plot is engaging, with a neverending variety of unexpected twists and turns.  If you love great fantasy, I cannot recommend this book -- indeed the whole series -- too highly.  Absolutely addicting!	2001-09-03
US	45865813	R27E3IZ6R1FVJZ	0966097777	420214899	Beyond Tithes & Offerings	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Soundly refutes unscriptural teachings about tithing.	When I found out about this book on the internet, I knew I had to have it.  I quickly ordered it and devoured it quickly after receiving it in the mail.  I was stunned by the depth and detail with which the author exposes the true purpose and practice of the old testament tithing ritual.  The book is exegetically sound and heavily reliant on scripture.  The amount of scripture used to support Mr. Webb's arguments (as shown in the index of quoted scripture verses) is impressive.<br /><br />The discussion of the old testament practices, in itself, was enough to conclusively demonstrate the fallacy of applying the tithe to the new testament church.  The later chapters on the relationship between Christians and the old testament law (another area in which I believe tradition has supplanted truth) are succinctly and persuasively written.  ....  Finally, the book concludes with a fabulous discussion of why and how spirit-led grace giving should occur.<br /><br />No doubt there are die-hard advocates of the tithe who will dismiss this book as written for people who want an excuse not to give.  The beauty of this book is that it does NOT discourage giving.  Rather, it ENCOURAGES GIVING THE WAY GOD INTENDED US TO GIVE.  I felt such an incredible sense of validation as I read this book.  My approach to giving will never be the same.  I will NOT give less as a result of Mr. Webb's book.  Rather, I will exchange Baptist tradition for biblical truth, and the oldness of the letter for the newness of the spirit.  Thank you Mr. Webb!!!<br /><br />I highly, highly, highly, highly, highly (one for each star) recommend this book for anyone who is struggling with these same issues.	2001-08-15
US	45865813	R8QWVEAR5BG5C	1576733912	468797920	Rapture (Under Attack): Will You Escape the Tribulation?	Books	2	19	24	N	N	Rehash of tired pretrib arguments, dreadful exegesis.	As an active member of a pretrib evangelical church, and also as a reasonably mature Christian and bible student, I have found myself struggling lately with the apparent conflict between what I hear from the pulpit concerning the timing of the rapture, and what I've seen in my own study of scripture.  I think the bible is very plain that a rapture of the church will occur, but I think it's much less clear about when that will happen.  On a purely personal level, my hope is that the pretrib position is the correct one, because I don't relish the thought of either myself or my family having to endure even a part of the tribulation.<br /><br />I've been wrestling with various passages of scripture which seem to be inconsistent with the pretrib view.  For example, in each of the three synoptic gospels, the latter verses of the Olivet Discourse (in my opinion) seems to tie the rapture directly to the physical return of our Lord in glory.  Jesus himself also stated that the days of the tribulation are to be shortened \\"for the sake of the elect.\\"  In Daniel chapter 7, there are several references to \\"the saints of the most High\\" enduring the tribulation for 3 1/2 years.  Even C. I. Scofield, in his marginal notes, interprets these verses to refer to the church.  I think one may fairly infer from these passages that the church may, in fact, have to go through all or part of the tribulation.  Still other passages, however, seem to clearly support the pretribulation rapture.<br /><br />In short, I'm not really sure what to believe about when the rapture will occur, and I'm desperately looking for some useful insights.  It was with this mindset that I picked up Tim LaHaye's book, hoping that he would provide some convincing answers to some of my concerns.  I was deeply disappointed.<br /><br />The first thing that struck me about the book was the condescending, dismissive, graceless and at times openly vitriolic tone that the author took toward persons espousing other views of end time events.  I consider myself to be a person who is genuinely seeking the truth, with the realization that it may lie in one of these alternate interpretations.  Thus, I felt personally slighted by Mr. LaHaye's bare insinuations that anyone who holds to those other views is deliberately trying to undermine the faith and hope of other Christians.  This could not be further from the truth.<br /><br />Nevertheless, I continued reading, searching for some spiritual meat that would also satisfy my probing intellect.  I genuinely hoped to find interpretations of some of the aforementioned difficult passages which would persuasively reconcile them with the pretrib view.  Instead, all I found was a superficial, skin-deep litany of the standard pretrib arguments, with no effort made at all to genuinely respond to competing interpretations.  LaHaye's \\"answers\\" to these other positions was merely to impugn the motives of their proponents, not to address the scriptural substance of what they believe.<br /><br />This book leaves most if not all of my questions and concerns unanswered.  Worse, I detected a decidedly unchristian attitude toward other believers who, no doubt, are equally sincere in their search for biblical truth.  So, I will remain confused for now, and look for other books which do a better job of defending the pretrib view and dealing with some of these \\"problem\\" passages.  I'm very glad I was able to borrow this book and didn't actually have to pay money for it.onsider myself to be a person who is genuinely seeking the truth, with the realization that it may lie in one of these alternate interpretations.  Thus, I felt personally slighted by Mr. LaHaye's bare insinuations that anyone who holds to those other views is deliberately trying to undermine the faith and hope of other Christians.  This could not be further from the truth.    Nevertheless, I continued reading, searching for some spiritual meat that would also satisfy my probing intellect.  I genuinely hoped to find interpretations of some of the aforementioned difficult passages which would persuasively reconcile them with the pretrib view.  Instead, all I found was a superficial, skin-deep litany of the standard pretrib arguments, with no effort made at all to genuinely respond to competing interpretations.  LaHaye's \\"answers\\" to these other positions was merely to impugn the motives of their proponents, not to address the scriptural substance of what they believe.    This book leaves most if not all of my questions and concerns unanswered.  Worse, I detected a decidedly unchristian attitude toward other believers who, no doubt, are equally sincere in their search for biblical truth.  So, I will remain confused for now, and look for other books which do a better job of defending the pretrib view and dealing with some of these \\"problem\\" passages.  I'm very glad I was able to borrow this book and didn't actually have to pay money for it.	2001-08-03
US	45865813	R2WG9GPZ4CXR6M	0787212423	99301917	Shaolin-Do: Secrets from the Temple	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Great overview of a HUGE martial arts system	Thanks to Grandmaster Sin for providing this overview of the Shaolin-Do system.  I've been a practitioner for about 5 years now, and when I go through my twice-weekly practice sessions, I find it's easy to &quot;miss the forest for the trees.&quot;  At its most fundamental level, this system like any other is made up of alot of nuts and bolts ... blocks, kicks, stances, punches, etc.  Sometimes we can get hung up in the minutiae of a form and lose sight of how all the details fit into the larger scheme of the system.  This book helps put everything in perspective for someone who is still (as I consider myself even as a black belt) new to the art.  The chapters on the internal arts, which I am just starting to experience, are a great help in this regard.<br />To the book's critics (and there are many), I say first that the value of this book depends on what you're looking for.  It was intended as an overview, an introduction, nothing more.  If you're looking for step-by-step charts on how to do various forms, forget it.  That knowledge, and particularly the upper rank material, is only disseminated to practicing students within the system.  So kindly lay aside your hyperbole and invective, and provide a USEFUL review of the book on its merits.  This forum is about whether the book serves its purpose well in providing an overview of the Shaolin-Do system.  It is not about how one martial arts system compares to another, or whether you believe Grandmaster Sin could learn 900 forms in 20 years.  In other words, stick to the subject.	2001-01-08
