US	45881099	R3OTSGB92C7OI0	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My Favourite So Far	In the long-awaited _Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince_,  Harry and Co. return to Hogwarts for their sixth year in the midst of growing threats from Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters (the threat is so severe, in fact, that the new Minister of Magic meets with the Muggle P.M. to discuss it).  On the way there, they discover that Draco Malfoy is up to something especially bad--a discovery that takes Harry well past the point of obsession, trying to discover what it is.  At Hogwarts, Harry commences a series of private studies with Dumbledore, over the course of which they explore Lord Voldemort's past in the hopes of finding a weakness.  Eventually, these two stories converge as Dumbledore and Harry seek out a source of Lord Voldemort's power just as Draco's purpose becomes clear.<br /><br />I've noticed from other reviews here that people have seemed to really like this book or really dislike it.  I'm, obviously, one of the former, but I can understand why others might be less than  thrilled.  HBP is a much different animal from the previous books in the series.  Most noticeable, there is FAR less action.  HBP is a very introspective book.  In exploring Voldemort's past, we come to learn not only his weaknesses, but the events in his life that have made him what he is.<br /><br />Many of the standard devices of the series are still in place.  The bulk of the book takes place at Hogwarts, where Harry and his friends have embarked on their N.E.W.T. level classes.  As we have come to expect, there is a new teacher, conflicts and alliances with other students, and Quidditch.  But Hogwarts exists merely as a framework;  the school year is not dealt with in as much detail.  This seems fitting as Harry, who has matured considerably from book five, is less concerned with preparing himself for an adult life that he might never see and more concerned with his prophesied final confrontation with Voldemort.<br /><br />A couple of themes are at play here.  The first, which J.K. Rowling has mentioned several times, is the choice between what is right and what is easy.  Early in the book, Harry discovers an item that seems at first to make his life much easier.  Despite the fact that this item leads to darker and darker places, he insists that it's harmless and refuses to give it up.  Only too late does he understand that his choice has dire consequences.  The second is the question of blind trust.  All too often, characters put too much trust in others who practice very questionable behavior, or in their own powers, because re-evaluating the situation would shake up their world view too much and present difficult choices.  This also has dire consequences in the end.<br /><br />HBP sets us up for a seventh book that is bound to be markedly different.  Harry, now virtually a adult, has accepted responsibility for the task before him.  He is more self-directed and no longer willing--perhaps he's even unable--either to hide behind others or let them call the shots.  He has a specific goal in mind and the determination to see it through.  I'm thinking book seven is going to have to be huge for Rowling to accomplish everything she needs to in bringing this remarkable story to its conclusion.  I look forward to it with great anticipation.which J.K. Rowling has mentioned several times, is the choice between what is right and what is easy.  Early in the book, Harry discovers an item that seems at first to make his life much easier.  Despite the fact that this item leads to darker and darker places, he insists that it's harmless and refuses to give it up.  Only too late does he understand that his choice has dire consequences.  The second is the question of blind trust.  All too often, characters put too much trust in others who practice very questionable behavior, or in their own powers, because re-evaluating the situation would shake up their world view too much and present difficult choices.  This also has dire consequences in the end. <br /> <br />HBP sets us up for a seventh book that is bound to be markedly different.  Harry, now virtually a adult, has accepted responsibility for the task before him.  He is more self-directed and no longer willing--perhaps he's even unable--either to hide behind others or let them call the shots.  He has a specific goal in mind and the determination to see it through.  I'm thinking book seven is going to have to be huge for Rowling to accomplish everything she needs to in bringing this remarkable story to its conclusion.  I look forward to it with great anticipation.	2005-07-20
US	45881099	R22GQRY3QVR7P4	0765310236	444956769	Agyar	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Pretentious and annoying	John Agyar is a vampire--or so one assumes, because that's never actually stated.  Anyway, he's some kind of immortal, super-powerful, violent being.  He's living in a college town in Ohio because an entity higher up in the heirarchy of bad--his sire, perhaps, but again, you're never really told--has commanded him to come and take the fall for her all-too obvious crimes.  Apparently in Mr. Brust's vampire mythos, one must do whatever one's sire commands.  While waiting for the proverbial axe to fall, Agyar feeds off various women and ruminates self-indulgently about his life.<br /><br />I got the same feeling reading this book as I did watching _Leaving Las Vegas_:  while everyone around me was gushing over how profound it was, I just felt sickened and irritated.  I didn't like any of the characters, all of whom struck me as hypocritical in the extreme.  Here's Agyar up in his attic, philosophising about oppressive political systems, then going out and abusing women.  Here's the free-spirited Susan, declaring that she doesn't believe in \\"poaching\\" on other women's boyfriends, at the same time as she's sleeping with a man she knows is involved somehow with her roommate.  The only character I could stand was Jim the Ghost, and he hardly contributes enough to the story to count.  I got the impression none of these people actually gained any real personal insight;  they just got off on the appearance of doing so.<br /><br />Brust's writing is, in general, sparse.  And usually that doesn't bother me;  on the contrary, I appreciate his ability to convey a story in very few words.  But here, the way he talked around the subject matter seemed contrived. No one actually ever said what exactly was happening, had happened, or how it happened and that irritated me to the extreme.  Agyar never says anything as direct as, \\"I fed off her;\\"  He uses cutsey phrases like, \\"Afterward, I left her sleeping.\\"  This struck me as really unrealistic.  When a person eats lunch he just says, \\"I ate lunch,\\" unless he has a real issue with eating, which Agyar obviously didn't.<br /><br />Another thing that really bothered me--although others may count it as trivial--is that Brust starts out the book having Agyar make a snide comment about someone's use of grammar (as if to say, \\"Look how much I know about it\\").  Then through the rest of the book his own grammar is often flawed with word confusion (he consistently mixes up \\"than\\" and \\"then\\") and bad noun case choice (e.g., saying \\"between Susan and I\\"  when the correct form is \\"between Susan and me\\"). Call me picky, but I think if you're going to point publicly to grammar, your own should be pristine unless you're obviously using a dialect or making some other contrast.  If that's what Mr. Brust was trying to accomplish, it didn't come off.<br /><br />Brust also seems to have some very different and perhaps original ideas about how vampires and vampirism work.  The thing is, he never clarifies them in any coherent way.  I can understand how this might be refreshing to people who are tired of reading long, gruesome descriptions of feeding and changing and whatever.  But for me, it's hard to appreciate someone's ideas if I can't really tell what they are.  It's quite possible that the end of the story involved a noble sacrifice in the face of a no-win situation, but as I never believed in the situation in the first place, I had a hard time appreciating the outcome.<br /><br />The whole thing just struck me as impossibly self-referential, like a stoned college student preaching revolution in a coffeeshop.  So many reviewers say that this story packed an emotional wallop for them, but the only emotion I experienced was increasing disgust.  Sorry, Mr. Brust, but this one just didn't do it for me.says, \\"I ate lunch,\\" unless he has a real issue with eating, which Agyar obviously didn't. <br /> <br />Another thing that really bothered me--although others may count it as trivial--is that Brust starts out the book having Agyar make a snide comment about someone's use of grammar (as if to say, \\"Look how much I know about it\\").  Then through the rest of the book his own grammar is often flawed with word confusion (he consistently mixes up \\"than\\" and \\"then\\") and bad noun case choice (e.g., saying \\"between Susan and I\\"  when the correct form is \\"between Susan and me\\"). Call me picky, but I think if you're going to point publicly to grammar, your own should be pristine unless you're obviously using a dialect or making some other contrast.  If that's what Mr. Brust was trying to accomplish, it didn't come off. <br /> <br />Brust also seems to have some very different and perhaps original ideas about how vampires and vampirism work.  The thing is, he never clarifies them in any coherent way.  I can understand how this might be refreshing to people who are tired of reading long, gruesome descriptions of feeding and changing and whatever.  But for me, it's hard to appreciate someone's ideas if I can't really tell what they are.  It's quite possible that the end of the story involved a noble sacrifice in the face of a no-win situation, but as I never believed in the situation in the first place, I had a hard time appreciating the outcome. <br /> <br />The whole thing just struck me as impossibly self-referential, like a stoned college student preaching revolution in a coffeeshop.  So many reviewers say that this story packed an emotional wallop for them, but the only emotion I experienced was increasing disgust.  Sorry, Mr. Brust, but this one just didn't do it for me.	2005-04-19
US	45881099	R3RJSXG522E50Q	0756402190	460694079	1: Shadowmarch: Shadowmarch: Volume I	Books	2	11	15	N	N	If it were anyone else....	The Northern Land of Eion, we are told, was originally populated by a strange immortal race that was driven into the far north several centuries ago by the advent of mankind.  To prevent further incursions into their territory, they called into being the Shadowline, a kind of mystical equivalent of Hadrian's Wall.  The Eddon family, rulers of Southmarch, sit right on the edge of the Shadowline.  When the Twilight People decide to take back what was stolen from them, it is the Eddons and those around them who find themselves in the forefront of the battle.<br /><br />Shadowmarch reads like a weird mishmash of George R.R. Martin's _Song of Ice and Fire_ and anything at all by Mercedes Lackey.  As such, it isn't totally awful, but as the pages turn, it becomes increasingly annoying.  The derivative-ness of the plot can be overlooked--after all, all High Fantasy resembles all other High Fantasy to some degree, and when you throw elves and little people into the mix there's really not much to distinguish them.<br /><br />But the main problem with _Shadowmarch_ is that it is so incredibly superficial.  There doesn't seem to be any subtext;  everything is exactly as it appears to be. Dire events that are foreshadowed never actually come to pass. The characters are stock and nothing happens to make you care about them;  rather, it seems you're supposed to care about them because you're reading the book, and none of them develop beyond who they were at their first appearance.  Events roll along but none of them seem connected and none of them seem to lead anywhere.  Not even the writing  redeems the sheer ordinary-ness of this tome.  When I read _Memory, Sorrow and Thorn_, I managed to keep myself going through the trite story and derivative characters because the writing was just so good, but that isn't the case here.<br /><br />If this book were by anyone else, I would rate it more highly.  But Tad Williams can do better.  I loved _Otherland_.  I loved _War of the Flowers_.  I may read the rest of the Shadowmarch series, but I won't go out of my way for it.owers_.  I may read the rest of the Shadowmarch series, but I won't go out of my way for it.	2005-01-11
US	45881099	RVXL78G119YCH	068987474X	794170346	He's Just Not That Into You: The No-Excuses Truth to Understanding Guys	Books	1	45	58	N	N	Simplistic Garbage Passed off as Ultimate Truth	I read one chapter of this book and it made me want to heave.  According to the author's premise, I've been happily married for twelve years to a man who \\"just isn't that into\\" me--which I happen to know is untrue.  There are lots of ways to be \\"into\\" someone and human behavior can't be reduced to a set of simplistic rules.  Like any magic solution, this book is bound to disappoint ultimately.	2004-10-12
US	45881099	RVEA3JJNC2TDZ	0765306816	200493584	Cat in an Orange Twist: A Midnight Louie Mystery (Midnight Louie Mysteries)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Back on Track	When I wrote my review for the last book in this series, _Cat in a Neon Nightmare_, I said that due to the deterioration of the series over time I was going to give it one more book to see if I wanted to continue reading it.  Well, this book paid off.  Carole Nelson Douglas has returned to basics, and _Cat in an Orange Twist_ is the most enjoyable Midnight Louie book for quite some time.<br /><br />Temple Barr is acting as PR rep for a large furniture store that, as part of its grand opening, is hosting an internationally known Feng Shui master.  During the opening cermonies, the store comes under attack from unknown people bearing automatic weapons.  Shortly thereafter, one of the furniture store employees is murdered.  Because murder is bad public relations--and because she knew the victim--Temple leaps in to make right.<br /><br />\\"Orange Twist\\" resembles earlier Midnight Louie books in that the crime takes the main stage here.  Gone, for the nost part, are the long, introspective monologues that made the last few volumes increasingly tedious.  We still get insight into the characters, but it's more subtle.  CND has let them stand on their own, rather than telling us what to think, and that was a good choice as far as I'm concerned.<br /><br />There are also fewer of the main characters to deal with.  Several ongoing plotlines take a back seat and I can't say that I miss them.  At the same time, some old faces are shown in a new light and I enjoyed that a great deal.<br /><br />Temple's (and Louie's) investigation proceeds along lines standard to the genre and this series in particular, with lots of red herrings, spooky locations and strangely overblown action sequences.  Sloppy editing and a few internal inconsistencies prohibit me from giving this book 5 stars, but for a good evening's light entertainment, you could do worse than visit Las Vegas with Louie and Company.	2004-08-26
US	45881099	R3O71ZFNAA623J	0142002798	435397103	Mary, Called Magdalene	Books	1	65	80	N	N	Dull, Plodding and Disappointing	I love historical novels.  I've read everything else Margaret George has written and loved every page, so when I saw _Mary, Called Magdalene_ on the shelf of the local bookstore I bought it without even opening the cover.  Boy was that a mistake!  This book is so awful, it's hard to believe it was written by the same author.  The characters are flat and lifeless, the research is second-rate and the plot is un-moving--and as the book deals with one of the core stories of Western thought (the ministry and passion of Jesus), that's saying a lot.  It's as if because the book deals with the topic of faith and religion, the writer's capacity for critical thought went on vacation.  There is no real challenge to the story of the gospels as we know it, no new interpretation and no life.  Almost every situation Mary meets from the time she becomes a disciple on comes directly--sometimes verbatim--from the New Testament of the Christian Bible.  The ones that don't are so boring that it's hard to care about them.<br /><br />Other things bothered me about this book:  the lack of cultural or historical context for the story, the huge emphasis on literal demon possession, which required way more suspension of disbelief than I was able to sustain and the superficial and inaccurate depiction of ancient Judaic religious thought, to name a few.  Knowing what I know about these things, George's Jesus affected me not as an enlightened Master, but as a man driven off the deep end by an internal revelation he is unable to communicate, and his followers seemed mindless subscribers to a cult that promises them release from personal pain, much as modern cults do.  This is an interesting interpretation, but I don't think it's the one George intended;  therefore, I have to say her book didn't work.<br /><br />Growing up in the home of a minister and Bible scholar, I spent my entire youth surrounded by books, both fiction and non-fiction, that treated Early Christianity and other Biblical subjects with passion and intellect, setting them in an historical context and making them important and real in human terms.  _Mary, Called Magdalene_ is not one of them.  From the reviews here it seems that a lot of people liked it, but I can't imagine why.ubjects with passion and intellect, setting them in an historical context and making them important and real in human terms.  _Mary, Called Magdalene_ is not one of them.  From the reviews here it seems that a lot of people liked it, but I can't imagine why.	2004-08-09
US	45881099	R1JEMGCCW8TW6C	0441009700	53314669	Tathea	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Another for my Short List	Ta-thea, Empress of Shinabar, is awakened one night to find herself in the middle of a palace coup and everyone around her dead.  With the help of a faithful servant, she manages to escape to the Lost Lands, where she seeks out a sage, demanding that he tell her the purpose of her life, the universe, and everything.  He sends her off on a quest with a mysterious boatsman who appears from nowhere.  The object of this quest is to learn the mind of God.<br />According to the book jacket reviews, _Tathea_ is &quot;riveting from the first page,&quot; &quot;crafted with depth of thought,&quot; and &quot;filled with symbolism.&quot;  I can't help but wonder if the reviewers who wrote those blurbs actually read the book, or only some promotional material from the publisher.  I found this book immensely dull, trite and self-conscious, a work that constantly drew attention to its own supposed profundity while actually sermonizing on pretty simplistic and not-very-original themes.  After a hundred pages of monotonous situations, depthless characters and heavy-handed allegory, I couldn't take any more.  This isn't a fantasy novel;  it's a Fundamentalist tract.  Reading it made me feel like I was being hit over the head with a dull axe.<br />I've never read anything else by the author and I don't intend to.  Ace did a disservice to all readers of fantasy by publishing this.	2004-07-09
US	45881099	R1O9UU57I1UFDL	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Another Melodramatic Conspiracy Thriller...	I can't believe no one else has taken the time to review this book!  I guess Brown's _The DaVinci Code_ is getting all the attention.<br />_Angels and Demons_ marks the first appearance of Robert Langdon, Brown's handsome yet unassuming Harvard professor of religious symbology.  Very much as in _The DaVinci Code_, in the first chapter he is awakened at an early hour by a person requiring his attendance at a murder scene where an arcane symbol is prominently involved.  The victim is a physicist at a major Swiss science laboratory.  Langdon realises that the symbol signifies the re-emergence of a secret society, and when the murdered physicist's adopted daughter discovers that the material result of their latest research--a potentially powerful weapon--has been stolen, the chase is on to trace the conspiracy and stop the society's schemes.<br />A&amp;D is obviously a rehearsal for _The DaVinci Code_.  From characters to plot structure to action, most of the two books are utterly interchangeable.  As in TDVC, we have Langdon wandering around without having had any sleep (maybe that's what causes his leaps of inspiration), lecturing on secret societies and hidden symbolism while decrying conspiracy theorists, acompanied by a beautiful and brilliant woman who just happens to have been related to the murder victim.  The secret society are the bad guys in this case and the crisis has material consequences rather than purely spiritual ones.  But we're still tackling the question of the Christian (specifically, Roman Catholic) Church's influence on modern thought.  It's just that the framework in A&amp;D is less volatile.<br />I have a problem with Brown's hysterical tone.  Again, he starts the book with a page of &quot;facts,&quot; which ends with the assurance that this secret society truly exists.  This sets the book up to be read as some kind of expose--fictionalized, perhaps, to protect the writer, who has gone out on a limb--rather than straight fiction.  I find this extremely exasperating, a demagogic technique meant to rope in readers, and influence them to take the book more seriously than it merits.  And I found that Brown's emphasis on facts really got in the way of a key point of this book.  Early on, he asserts that the mysterious symbol that is the key to all this has been lost for four-hundred years and no artist, not even a sophisticated computer, has ever been able to re-create it.  Yet the symbol, as well as five others similar to it, is RIGHT THERE on the page.  That completely shattered MY suspension of disbelief, I'll tell you.  I might have been able to let it go had Brown dropped the matter, but every time a new symbol appeared he insisted on reiterating how these had been lost and NO ONE was able to produce them except the secret cult involved.  Sigh.  I thought that was really bad form.<br />Compared to TDVC, there is a greater balance in A&amp;D between exposition and action.  There still isn't much character development, however.  So if you're looking to learn more about Mr. Langdon, you won't find it.  There was a clever twist at the end that, although not completely unexpected, brought the book above the level of the utterly predictable.  All in all, I found myself enjoying _Angels and Demons_ more than I did _The DaVinci Code_, partly because it was less sensational and partly because the story was simply more interesting.  But I still think there's a lot more hype about Dan Brown than his writing really deserves.xtremely exasperating, a demagogic technique meant to rope in readers, and influence them to take the book more seriously than it merits.  And I found that Brown's emphasis on facts really got in the way of a key point of this book.  Early on, he asserts that the mysterious symbol that is the key to all this has been lost for four-hundred years and no artist, not even a sophisticated computer, has ever been able to re-create it.  Yet the symbol, as well as five others similar to it, is RIGHT THERE on the page.  That completely shattered MY suspension of disbelief, I'll tell you.  I might have been able to let it go had Brown dropped the matter, but every time a new symbol appeared he insisted on reiterating how these had been lost and NO ONE was able to produce them except the secret cult involved.  Sigh.  I thought that was really bad form.<br />Compared to TDVC, there is a greater balance in A&amp;D between exposition and action.  There still isn't much character development, however.  So if you're looking to learn more about Mr. Langdon, you won't find it.  There was a clever twist at the end that, although not completely unexpected, brought the book above the level of the utterly predictable.  All in all, I found myself enjoying _Angels and Demons_ more than I did _The DaVinci Code_, partly because it was less sensational and partly because the story was simply more interesting.  But I still think there's a lot more hype about Dan Brown than his writing really deserves.	2004-06-03
US	45881099	R3DVH5JQCE4BA7	0609806505	148189446	Guenevere, Queen of the Summer Country (Guenevere Novels)	Books	1	11	11	N	N	Really dull, irritating and horrible	I have lost track of the number of Arthurian retellings I've consumed in 30-odd years of insatiable reading.  I have no problem that there are so many out there;  the Matter of Britain is one of the central mythologies of Western European culture.  But I really expect that a writer who feels moved to deal with the subject should have something new to say.  Rosalind Miles really doesn't and what she does say is so superficial, characterless and just plain wrong that this book is a trial for an educated person to read.<br />Here we have Gunevere presented as a Pagan Celtic Queen of a Matriarchal tradition (a la Persia Woolley's books).  I have no problem with this idea.  But it becomes obvious fairly early on that Ms. Miles doesn't actually know anything about Pagan religions, either modern or ancient, besides the names of the holidays and the fact that women practice(d) some kind of sexual freedom.  I tried hard to say \\"this is only a fantasy novel,\\" but I happen to know that a great many people take what they read about such things in novels as absolutely true.  So when Ms. Miles related that Imbolc--a Pagan spring holiday celebrating new life and healing--was sacred to the \\"dark maiden of death\\" I about blew a gasket.<br />That was one problem.  Next was that the book is utterly ungrounded in any timeframe.  Although it goes back to Welsh tradition, most of the Arthurian legend we are familiar with is based on 12th & 13th century French romances.  The fashion currently is to draw on the older sources and try to find a possible historical basis, making Arthur a Roman Legionary, a Celtic Warrior King, or anything else that would potentially be possible for a dark ages leader of about the 6th century.  Rosalind Miles chose to ignore this and her work harks back to Mallory in its castles, tournaments, and code of chivalry.  I am not categorically opposed to this.  But trying to merge a Middle Ages sentiment of that sort with a Neo-Pagan Matriarchal basis Just Didn't Work.  It was very jarring and, rather than gving a new interpretation of the events, it just made them seems arbitrary.<br />Another thing that really bothered me was the way Ms. Miles jumps around in time without regard to events and without letting the reader know what's going on.  One minute it's Beltain and the next it's midsummer, seemingly without transisiton.  One day Arthur's setting out to deal with the infant Mordred and when he returns a week later Mordred appears at a tournament seven years old or so.  No one seems to remark on this.<br />I could go on about how flat the characters are and how, although she seems to try to give people basis for their actions, Ms Miles' falls far short of the mark when it comes to creating real, believable situations.  Most of the action is sensationalist. I get that the Matter of Britain deals with a lot of sensational stuff like rape and incest.  But I'm looking for more than the bare bones these days.<br />If you've never read any reimagining of Arthurian myth, this book may not actually annoy you.  It won't really teach you anything, either.  I'd recommend giving it a miss.  There's a thousand better boks on the subject than this travesty. I'd give it zero stars if I could.rk.  It was very jarring and, rather than gving a new interpretation of the events, it just made them seems arbitrary.<br />Another thing that really bothered me was the way Ms. Miles jumps around in time without regard to events and without letting the reader know what's going on.  One minute it's Beltain and the next it's midsummer, seemingly without transisiton.  One day Arthur's setting out to deal with the infant Mordred and when he returns a week later Mordred appears at a tournament seven years old or so.  No one seems to remark on this.<br />I could go on about how flat the characters are and how, although she seems to try to give people basis for their actions, Ms Miles' falls far short of the mark when it comes to creating real, believable situations.  Most of the action is sensationalist. I get that the Matter of Britain deals with a lot of sensational stuff like rape and incest.  But I'm looking for more than the bare bones these days.<br />If you've never read any reimagining of Arthurian myth, this book may not actually annoy you.  It won't really teach you anything, either.  I'd recommend giving it a miss.  There's a thousand better boks on the subject than this travesty. I'd give it zero stars if I could.	2004-05-10
US	45881099	RXCT2W1Y5PGO8	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	16	22	N	N	Pedantic	The curator of the Louvre museum in Paris has been murdered, leaving behind a string of clues--not to his murderer's identity, but to a secret for which he and others like him have been responsible for keeping.  Faced with the idea that the secret might die with him, he spends his last minutes setting up a treasure hunt for two people:  his granddaughter, a cryptologist with the French version of the FBI, and Robert Langdon, a professor of symbology.  Together they embark on what turns out to be a quest for the Holy Grail, but a Holy Grail unlike anything the reader has ever heard of.  Or so the author seems to hope.<br />This novel relies very highly on the supposed sensational nature of the secret.  Much of the drama, especially in the early parts of the book, hinges on interrupted revelations.  Unfortunately if you already have read the source material, or have been exposed to Mr. Brown's subject before, the contrived nature of his plot becomes not only apparent but tedious.  As a digest of various...alternative religious beliefs, secret societies, philosophies and conspiracy theories, this volume is not without interest.  However, the writing is pedantic, sometimes sounding as if it had been excerpted verbatim from various encyclopaediae.  In other areas the plodding conversations, stereotyped characters and trite similes also make the reading a trial.<br />I have to admit my reading habits are eclectic, but I had a hard time believing in the blindness of the main characters when it came to the puzzles;  more often than not I solved them full chapters before Mr. Langdon and company.  I also didn't find the ending any great surprise.<br />In spite of its faults, _The DaVinci Code_ does manage to be a page turner and as such is a relatively quick read.  My disapointment stems from the fact that I was hoping for some new treatment of the subject matter and didn't find any. I give the book credit for taking the subject into the realm of popular fiction and exposing it to a wider audience than it has heretofore enjoyed.  But I can't help but think that had the topic not been in itself so controversial, _The Da Vinci Code_ just wouldn't have gained such noteriety.  The quality just isn't there.it to a wider audience than it has heretofore enjoyed.  But I can't help but think that had the topic not been in itself so controversial, _The Da Vinci Code_ just wouldn't have gained such noteriety.  The quality just isn't there.	2004-04-04
US	45881099	R2ZAHBK9ZA34V2	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Mixed Feelings	In this book, set about 20-odd years before the WoT series begins, we get a glimpse of important events that set much of the whole darn thing in motion, particularly the political mechanations of the White Tower and the schizms between the sisters.  Set at the end of the Aiel War, it opens with Gitara's prophecy of the birth of the Dragon Reborn.  Moiraine and Siuan, both Accepted at the time, are present and because of this become involved in the Tower's schemes for the infant.<br />I have real mixed feelings about this book.  I truly enjoy Jordan's writing;  he has a way of making the world and characters come alive that is equalled by few other writers.  The story is engaging and well-paced, with just enough twists and turns to keep it interesting.  Some things surprised me;  for example, I had thought, in WoT, that both Moiraine and Siuan were much, much older and had been Aes Sedai much longer than is revealed here.<br />I felt, however, that there wasn't enough attention paid to some things that really mattered.  The whole first chapter dealt with something that was never explained to my satisfaction;  I think it would have been better just to leave that out. The Malkieri customs were unclear.  I think Lan makes a much better supporting character than protagonist;  seeing inside his head just kind of made him seem sulky and childish.  As usual, there are a great many words spent on the details of clothing;  I'm beginning to count exactly how many times Jordan debates the merits of embroidered vs. unembroidered gowns.<br />But most of all, I can't help but question the choice Mr. Jordan had made, to veer off into prequel territory when his magnum opus isn't finished yet, or even at a good stopping place.  I know the creative process often takes a writer where it will, but, well, it makes me wonder if we'll EVER get to the Last Battle.<br />_New Spring_ made for a couple afternoon's light, enjoyable reading.  I'd recommend getting it from the library, though.	2004-02-26
US	45881099	R2A2VVBK1PNPJY	0312864833	143918115	The Crystal City (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 6)	Books	2	37	41	N	N	The Spark is Gone	In _The Crystal City_, Orson Scott Card's 6th book in the Alvin Maker series, Alvin starts an epidemic and builds a bridge, Arthur Stuart gets kissed and runs to Mexico and back, Calvin postures, Verily sulks and Margaret sighs.  That's about it.<br />Before embarking on _The Crystal City_ I went back and reread the entire series, as it had been five years or so since I was through them last and I wanted to be sure everything was fresh.  I was, once more, delighted by the voice with its smooth use of early American colloquialism, impressed by the obvious knowledge of history and folklore that went into them, captivated by the engaging characters and astounded by the scope of the work.  &quot;Boy,&quot; I thought, &quot;This is one Great Series!&quot;<br />Then I came to the current volume.  And I was really disappointed.  It purely does not compare with its companions in any way.  The story was frankly boring and the Biblical allegory--which was very suave and subtle in the earlier works-- was just ham-handed.  I don't object to Alvin's spending the entire book leading a group of slaves to freedom, but it doesn't make for very interesting action and the subplots weren't developed enough to alleviate the tedium.  The language was mundane, without any of the personality I had come to expect.  The earlier books seemed to be told by a breathing human being;  TCC resembled a recitation by a history prof counting the days until retirement.  The characters were flat.  The characters we had seen before were not developed any further and the new characters were not developed at all.  In previous books even minor characters had personalities and stories, but only lip service was paid to that here:  note the stunning difference between _Heartfire's_ Denmark and TCC's Old Bart.  Historical characters were inserted to fill the formula, but not even Abe Lincoln really added anything.  And as for Papa Moose and Mama Squirrel, well, I read the reason for them in the Acknowledgements, but I personally think using those names was a REALLY BAD CHOICE.  Every reference to &quot;moose and squirrel&quot; catapaulted me into a realm that had nothing to do with Alvin Maker and Co.  I'm sure you know the one I mean.<br />I don't mind that TCC started about five years after _Heartfire_ and that Alvin was in a really different place than one might have expected.  I do mind that the story behind this wasn't really told.  It's as if Tolkein had finished FOTR with leaving Lorien, skipped TTT altogether and started ROTK with &quot;Well, now that Saruman's been vanquished...&quot;  There was just a huge chunk missing, and I think that chunk would have been a great deal more interesting than the story Card chose to tell.  It almost seems to me that Card has written himself into a corner with this series;  his characters can no longer grow and change and have real human experiences because that might tarnish them.  Good and bad are established, but there are no longer any of the shades of grey that make people interesting.<br />Though TCC ends with some events that foreshadow a possible cotinuation of this series, it also sums up enough -- with &quot;curtain call&quot; appearances by most major characters fromt he series -- that Card could stop here without much harm done.  Unless he makes some radical choices for this universe, I hope he does stop.  I really wouldn't like to see this series devolve any further.  The spark is gone and laying this series to rest before it decays would be a mercy.s, but I personally think using those names was a REALLY BAD CHOICE.  Every reference to &quot;moose and squirrel&quot; catapaulted me into a realm that had nothing to do with Alvin Maker and Co.  I'm sure you know the one I mean.<br />I don't mind that TCC started about five years after _Heartfire_ and that Alvin was in a really different place than one might have expected.  I do mind that the story behind this wasn't really told.  It's as if Tolkein had finished FOTR with leaving Lorien, skipped TTT altogether and started ROTK with &quot;Well, now that Saruman's been vanquished...&quot;  There was just a huge chunk missing, and I think that chunk would have been a great deal more interesting than the story Card chose to tell.  It almost seems to me that Card has written himself into a corner with this series;  his characters can no longer grow and change and have real human experiences because that might tarnish them.  Good and bad are established, but there are no longer any of the shades of grey that make people interesting.<br />Though TCC ends with some events that foreshadow a possible cotinuation of this series, it also sums up enough -- with &quot;curtain call&quot; appearances by most major characters fromt he series -- that Card could stop here without much harm done.  Unless he makes some radical choices for this universe, I hope he does stop.  I really wouldn't like to see this series devolve any further.  The spark is gone and laying this series to rest before it decays would be a mercy.	2004-02-04
US	45881099	R268W69P8Q8V6G	0765302195	300389076	The Outstretched Shadow	Books	2	43	63	N	N	Not the Worst thing I've ever read, but not the best, either	Kellen Tavadon lives in the Mage city of Armethalieh, where nothing ever is allowed to change.  Son of the Arch-Mage, he's expected to follow in his father's footsteps, but he doesn't fit in, doesn't live up to expectations, and doesn't agree with the agenda that's been set for his life.  His discovery of a mysterious set of books on the forbidden topic of &quot;Wild Magic&quot; sets him on a course that will ultimately thrust him form the life he knows and introduce him to his destiny.<br />Sound familiar?  It should.  The plot, characters, themes and settings are typical of fantasy in general and Mercedes Lackey in particular.  Except for the hair colour and the fact that he whines a little less, Kellen could have been Vanyel.  Whether this is comforting or annoying will depend on the reader.<br />I found this book very difficult to get into, mostly because the writing style is frankly amateurish, particularly for the first five or six chapters.  For every location there are hundreds of words of unnecessary back-story and description. No event is truly connected to the larger story, as most of them occur mainly to elucidate conditions in Armethalieh.  This was especially grating in chapter 2:  an entire chapter devoted to a situation and characters who never appear again, merely to point out that women are not allowed to practice magick and mages go to great lengths to prevent them doing so.  I couldn't help but feel there would have been a much more elegant and less wordy way of getting this point across.  I wouldn't have found it worth my while even to give those characters names!<br />Once Kellen's destiny is thrust on him things pick up, but there's still a lot of the same-old here.  The same old good vs. evil conflict, the same old debate between Earth magic and ceremonial magic, the same old magical creatures and, saints preserve us, the same old Elves.  The action is okay and the concept of Wild Magic has some originality, but there's way too much introspection and moralizing on Kellen's part.  I felt very strongly that the writers did not trust their readers to &quot;get it,&quot; and so over-explained things to the point of boredom.<br />_The Outstretched Shadow_ has its moments.  There were some things about it that I quite liked, occasional brief flashes of originality and wit.  Unfortunately, it seemed that instead of pressing the boundaries of genre fiction, the writers allowed themselves to be limited by its banalities.  So this was never quite the book I felt it COULD have been.  I'll probably read the rest of the series, but I won't expect any more of it than I've seen here.tion and moralizing on Kellen's part.  I felt very strongly that the writers did not trust their readers to &quot;get it,&quot; and so over-explained things to the point of boredom.<br />_The Outstretched Shadow_ has its moments.  There were some things about it that I quite liked, occasional brief flashes of originality and wit.  Unfortunately, it seemed that instead of pressing the boundaries of genre fiction, the writers allowed themselves to be limited by its banalities.  So this was never quite the book I felt it COULD have been.  I'll probably read the rest of the series, but I won't expect any more of it than I've seen here.	2004-01-27
US	45881099	RPEIR3VF4TLYT	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	3	16	23	N	N	Cluttered, but Ultimately Somewhat Enjoyable	In the far, far distant future, a lot of things are happening all at once.  (Actually, part of the point of this book is that everything is always happening all at once in some respect, but never mind.)  The gods of ancient Greece--or beings so like them as to make little difference--are hovering over the Trojan War, using reconstituted 20th century professors as their agents.  Jupiter and Jovian space are populated by sentient semi-organic robots, who are on a seemingly kamikaze mission to Mars.  Earth is a much different place than we know it now, with &quot;old-style&quot; humans enjoying a certain level of technology that no one understands yet having no artistic culture.  By the end of the book all these stories will have come together--somewhat--to prepare the way for the NEXT book.  So that makes _Ilium_ essentially a great big 500-odd page introduction.<br />It's a fairly interesting introduction, particularly as far as character development.  These characters--except, perhaps, the eternal gods--live and grow in ways both drastic and believable.  The process is aided by that age-old classical theme of Man's struggle against Fate;  everyone here is raging against stricture and convention, whether he knows it or not.  Also appropriate, since a major theme of _The Iliad_ is the devastating and world-changing effect of rage.  As a backdrop and mirror of the action, Simmons uses Homer exceptionally well most of the time, although I don't personally agree with some of his interpretation;  in my opinion he doesn't take a wide enough view or veer enough from rather straight-laced academia in his interpretation of the Ancient Greeks, with the notable exception of Odysseus and perhaps Helen. Of course Hector is the true hero of _The Iliad_ and it isn't at all merely the modern &quot;politically correct&quot; view that Achilles and Patroclus were lovers.  Ancient Greece, hello??<br />But anyway for all the enjoyable stuff, I found the story itself remarkably cluttered.  For one thing, Simmons did that thing he does where he talks at length about societies and technology using a lot of big words, some of which he may have made up, without really explaining anything, so it takes a long time before you get a decent feel for what is going on. I don't generally mind this technique, but in this case it seemed like I was halfway through the book before I really felt I had a handle on things.  Some of the questions--like, who are the post humans and why should I care?-- don't even begin to be answered, and that really bothered me.<br />For another, it seemed to me that there was too much diverse thematic content.  There's meat enough in _the Iliad_ without bringing in Prospero's Island and all its inhabitants and the Wandering Jew legend too!  All those disparate elements clashed in my head.  I completely didn't appreciate the lengthy discussions of Shakespeare and Proust between the robots;  it added nothing to the story and I found the literary criticism sophmoric.<br />The first 150 pages of this book were a real struggle to get through and I almost didn't bother going on.  After that things picked up.  I would have appreciated more resolution in this volume--some hint as to why all those elements were necessary would have raised my opinion a great deal.  The sequel will show whether Simmons can ultimately pull off what he's attemtpting, but I'm afraid a lot of readers won't bother.For one thing, Simmons did that thing he does where he talks at length about societies and technology using a lot of big words, some of which he may have made up, without really explaining anything, so it takes a long time before you get a decent feel for what is going on. I don't generally mind this technique, but in this case it seemed like I was halfway through the book before I really felt I had a handle on things.  Some of the questions--like, who are the post humans and why should I care?-- don't even begin to be answered, and that really bothered me.<br />For another, it seemed to me that there was too much diverse thematic content.  There's meat enough in _the Iliad_ without bringing in Prospero's Island and all its inhabitants and the Wandering Jew legend too!  All those disparate elements clashed in my head.  I completely didn't appreciate the lengthy discussions of Shakespeare and Proust between the robots;  it added nothing to the story and I found the literary criticism sophmoric.  <br />The first 150 pages of this book were a real struggle to get through and I almost didn't bother going on.  After that things picked up.  I would have appreciated more resolution in this volume--some hint as to why all those elements were necessary would have raised my opinion a great deal.  The sequel will show whether Simmons can ultimately pull off what he's attemtpting, but I'm afraid a lot of readers won't bother.	2003-11-05
US	45881099	R151T773R8KZVL	0312873980	858915453	Spirits in the Wires	Books	2	21	22	N	N	This One Just Didn't Grab Me	In his latest novel featuring an ensemble cast of Newford-ites, Charles DeLint attempts to explore the idea that Cyberspace is the modern equivalent of the Hollow Hills -- an otherworld that can be physically accessed -- and that some of the older denizens of the spirit world may have already become interested in this psychic real estate.  Or, at least, that's what he says he's doing in his introduction.<br />When a virus disrupts the Wordwood site and a whole lot of people disappear into virtual reality, a disparate group of magic users and mundanes must use whatever means they can come up with to go to the rescue.  Christy Riddell is one of the central characters, as his partner Saskia is one of the ones who has disappeared.  We also get to see Holly Rue, Robert Lonnie, Geordie and a supporting cast of Newford's literary citizens (as opposed to Newford's painting citizens) as well as the usual faeries, sprites and elemental spirits.<br />And that's what kind of bothered me about this book.  We had the usual suspects doing the usual things in pretty much the usual way;  only the setting was somewhat altered, and that not by much.  I think the question of spirits in cyberspace, so much a part of a lot of cyberpunk fiction, is a really interesting one.  But I didn't find it addressed here in any interesting way.  Rather, the idea seemed taken for granted and from there the novel read like a Michael Crichton action piece, with lots of fireworks and explosions, told from so many points of view that it was hard to care about any of them.<br />I'm also disappointed that DeLint's books seem to have lost the edginess that grabbed me in many of his earlier works.  There aren't any great villains here, so the conflict is a little pale.  There isn't any real sense of danger.  Although the characters constantly must remember that &quot;The otherworld is dangerous place,&quot; we don't see any real danger.  Nothing really bad happens to anyone.  It's all a walk in the park and the ending no surprise. We're told anything can happen, but it rings false. In reality &quot;anything&quot; CAN'T happen, because the heroes always come through safe and sound with very few scars. Call me bloodthirsty, but I think at this point DeLint's work could benefit from killing someone dead -- someone major.<br />This is another book that will probably be lost on anyone who hasn't read several of DeLint's short story collections.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone new to this writer or this genre.  Although it's always interesting to see what's going on in Newford with these characters, I considered this one of their less thrilling adventures.  Get it out of the library or wait for paper.d the ending no surprise. We're told anything can happen, but it rings false. In reality &quot;anything&quot; CAN'T happen, because the heroes always come through safe and sound with very few scars. Call me bloodthirsty, but I think at this point DeLint's work could benefit from killing someone dead -- someone major.<br />This is another book that will probably be lost on anyone who hasn't read several of DeLint's short story collections.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone new to this writer or this genre.  Although it's always interesting to see what's going on in Newford with these characters, I considered this one of their less thrilling adventures.  Get it out of the library or wait for paper.	2003-10-25
US	45881099	R13D4URERSDY48	0425188558	3589184	Sunshine and Shadow (Benni Harper Mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Really Good Book	In _Sunshine and Shadow_ Earlene Fowler has done something very difficult:  taken two interlocking stories set seventeen years apart and told them in a way that each illuminates both the other and the underlying theme of the novel, bringing the two together at the end for a touching conclusion.  The skill with which she pulls this feat off alone makes me give this book high marks.  That there are other things to like here is frosting on the cake.<br />As San Celina prepares for its annual Fiesta Days, both Benni and her husband, Gabe, renew acquaintances with friends from their pasts.  When one is murdered and Benni finds herself victimized by a mysterious stalker, Benni and Gabe are forced to remember and confront things they'd rather forget.<br />_Sunshine and Shadow_ is less a mystery than an exploration of characters and relationships, and the ways events in the past influence the present, both for good and bad.  The murder story is more of a device in service to this theme than an end in itself, but I didn't feel cheated.  I actually found it refreshing that Ms. Fowler chose to go in a very different direction and treat her characters in very different ways, instead of limiting herself to the same old &quot;Benni is a snoop but it works out okay in the end&quot; story.  We see a very different Benni here, one who is forced to face fear and questions of faith in order to find her real strength.<br />There are a couple of glitches -- noticably that the Internet and cell phones are more prevalent in the world of the book than they really were in 1995 -- but none that detract from the excellence of the storytelling.  _Sunshine and Shadow_ is a strong and sensitive addition to the Benni Harper series, one that made me think about it long after the reading was done.	2003-10-07
US	45881099	R1ZKTRCI90B9QI	006053821X	786596100	The Companions: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An Enjoyable Read	In the year 2700 (give or take), Earth is a wasteland of mile-high apartment towers, desalinazation plants, and algae processing facilities, populated by WAY too many people.  The gap between the rich and poor is worse than ever, real food is non-existent and space colonization hasn't helped anything because of a law that every colonist who can no longer work (read:  the elderly) must be returned to Earth.  On top of all this, a religious group declaring that humans are the only species with a right to live has taken power and passed a law that all remaining companion animals must be destroyed because they use up too much air and water.  Jewell Delis, a devoted preservationist who has spent years developing a bigger and better dog, manages to get herself and her charges shipped off to a recently discovered world, ostensibly to assist her linguist brother.  And that's where the story really begins.<br />I liked _The Companions_, but not as much as I've liked others of Sheri Tepper's novels.  This is not because of the story: reminiscent of _Grass_ and _After Long Silence_ in its themes, this was a hard book to put down.  We find here the familiar &quot;human only&quot; club that appears (by other names) in Tepper's other books; also familiar are Tepper's playing with Planetary consciousness, languages that don't resemble languages we recognise and sentience in forms that are hard to acknowledge.  Less prominent is is the theme of the existence of pure evil, but it's there.  All this is woven into an agile plot populated by likable characters.<br />But I felt the story was rushed.  There were a lot of subplots that I really wanted to hear more about and a lot of things that, I felt, didn't really get developed the way they deserved to.  I think Tepper really limited herself by telling the bulk of the story in the first person -- a new technique for her -- because _The Companions_ didn't seem to have the scope of her novels where she's free to jump about more in time and space.  The last third of the book seemed particularly cramped.<br />Where Tepper talks about relationships and communication, _The Companions_ is a great read.  Where the major conflict comes in, it falls a little flat.  But it's still a good choice for readers of speculative fiction.nd space.  The last third of the book seemed particularly cramped.<br />Where Tepper talks about relationships and communication, _The Companions_ is a great read.  Where the major conflict comes in, it falls a little flat.  But it's still a good choice for readers of speculative fiction.	2003-09-22
US	45881099	R3TMDGA0TWIC4	0765303817	44580626	The Onion Girl (Newford)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	If You Know Newford...	In _The Onion Girl_, Newford artist Jilly Coppercorn suffers a devastating personal tragedy that forces her to re-evaluate her life and face things in her past that she'd rather not.  As she is virtually the glue that holds Newford together, she is aided by a mind-boggling cast of characters, both this-worldly and otherworldly.<br />I loved this book and couldn't put it down, but I ended up having mixed feelings about it when I was done.  On the one hand, DeLint's writing was a beautiful as ever, his depictions of the joys and terrors of the Otherworld as richly realised, his characters as real and his forthright pictures of some very ugly human experiences as affecting.<br />On the other hand, there are certain things I found a bit off.  The cast of characters is SO enormous -- at times it seems that everyone who's ever appeared in a Newford story shows up at some time or another -- that it's a little hard to keep track of;  I certainly wouldn't recommend reading this book unless you've at least read one or two of DeLint's short story anthologies.  Towards the end, the message got just a little overbearing.  At the same time, I didn't like the implication that only magic could really heal Jilly;  I would have liked to see her take some real world steps to deal with her baggage.  Maybe deciding to get therapy isn't magical, but I really think she could use it.<br />I did like that everything between Jilly and her &quot;nemesis&quot; wasn't completely resolved and that there was still some tension between them at the end.  I also liked the fact that this ending wasn't a happy-ever-after kind of thing--that people underwent irreversable changes.<br />I didn't like that one character who could have been really interesting seemed to exist merely to deliver a heavy-handed message about standing up to bullies, which I think the book delivered effectively elsewhere.  It seemed a waste of a character and brought up certain questions that were not answered to my satisfaction.<br />Probably if you're a DeLint fan already you'll like this book.  If you haven't read anything by this fine writer, don't start here or you'll be lost.on.<br />Probably if you're a DeLint fan already you'll like this book.  If you haven't read anything by this fine writer, don't start here or you'll be lost.	2003-09-04
US	45881099	RSA8WXT3HMCKY	0060199423	400934481	Love for Sale (Grace & Favor Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Apalling	What is is with all these formerly witty and entertaining cozy/mystery series that have suddenly become unredeemably drab, boring and awful?<br />On the eve of the 1932 Presidential election, a group of strangers, one of them in disguise, shows up at Grace and Favor, offering wads of cash and demanding absolute privacy.  Of course, one of them ends up murdered and the murder must be solved.<br />I can't begin to describe how terrible this book is.  It reads like an outline, and not a very interesting one at that.  There is no characterization and no atmosphere.  Quite a few words are wasted on matters that have no importance and details that have no relevance.  Long, dull paragraphs of factual background might have been copied verbatim from the encylopaedia.  Despite numerous red herrings the solution is painfully obvious, and the red herrings themselves are boring and pointless.  Events that are referred to in the book jacket never happen at all.  A third grader could have come up with a better story and told it with more colour.<br />I have two words for anyone thinking of reading _Love for Sale_:  Don't bother.	2003-07-16
US	45881099	R1LJVZ02BYUJ4L	0399149422	685215703	The Cat Who Brought Down the House	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Inane and Ragged	This 25th installment in the \\"Cat Who\\" series proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that once a book series has made it to the best-seller lists, it can never die, even when the successive installments have no redeeming value.  The book reads at first grade level, with very little imagery.  Action is limited to the \\"and then he did this\\" variety.  The plot is practically non-existent, swallowed up in repetitive visits to every restaurant in Pickax where nothing happens except unending consumption of coffee and pie.  The characters, who were once rather interesting, have devolved into mere sets of mannerisms.<br />The cats are comatose.<br />The title has no clear meaning or relevance, aside from a possible connection to an event that seemed stuck in for its cute factor.  The writing is incredibly irritating, jumping inconsistently from third person narrative to Qwill's journal to excerpts from \\"Short and Tall Tales.\\" This might not have been so grating had it been handled with anything like finesse, but each jump was simply announced with some phrase like:  \\"this incident is better related through Qwill's personal journal.\\" In my opinion, that kind of statement belongs in a writer's private notes, not in a published work.<br />I really enjoyed the first eighteen or twenty of these books, but they have become too inane for words.  The whitebread, utopian view of this rural community where every charity can sell out $300-a-plate fundraisers and every problem can be solved by applying to the K Fund has really begun to stick in my craw.  I think a better book would involve shooting Q willeran through the head.  The only mystery here is why I keep inflicting this series upon myself.	2003-07-08
US	45881099	R32N9GWIWJ7DR3	0743436083	601117835	Spirits White as Lightning (Bedlam Bard, Book 5)	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Somewhat entertaining, but...	In this world, Eric Banyon is a New York Subway Busker and Julliard student.  But you don't have to worry about that, because instead of actually attending college, mostly he hangs out with various magickal people and entities, both this-worldly and other-worldly.  Eric is a practitioner of Bardic Magic, you see, and it gets him into sticky situations as well as occasionally helping him save the world.<br />Maybe it's that I haven't read any of the other books in this series, or even in any of the related series, but I had a hard time getting into this book.  From the beginning, there are too many characters and too much backstory that is only implied or hinted at, making the first few chapters really confusing.  I also had a hard time getting past the fact that everything in this book is really derivative.  The setting reminded me of a cheap, American imitation of Charles DeLint's _Moonheart_, the characters were flat Urban Fantasy knock-offs without any true personality and there was absolutely nothing new to say here about magic, elves, the hollow hills, or anything else.  All of this is wrapped up in a Pagan-Fem ethic and aesthetic that I find at best naive and at worst nauseating and irresponsible.<br />Once the story gets going it stops taking itself so seriously and is somewhat entertaining, provided you can overlook glitches like the secret government installation called the \\"Black Lab\\" (Woof!) and the PhD folkloricist who has never heard the word \\"Sidhe.\\"  (Doh!)  There are quite a few good one-liners.  I liked the dragon.  I liked the haunted banjo.  Trouble is, there were just too many plot threads going and none of them was developed particularly well.  They all came together...kind of...but to me, it seemed that the books consisted of a bunch of random action and then all of a sudden MAJOR CONFLICT!<br />_Spirits White as Lightning_ is a short, easy and relatively mindless read with some amusing scenes.  But get it out of the library.	2003-07-05
US	45881099	R25IXG6OL4ALFM	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Well Worth the Wait	The Dark Wizard Lord Voldemort has returned and Harry Potter is on pins and needles anticipating news of a catastrophe.  But nothing is happening, that he can tell. In fact, not even his closest friends are telling him anything, although he knows they're involved in a resistance movement, The Order of the Phoenix.  By the time his fifth year at Hogwarts starts, Harry is frustrated with everything and steaming mad.  The situation is only worsened by the fact that half the Wizarding world thinks Harry's bonkers and the Ministry of Magic is determined to deny the Dark Lord's return.  The appointment of a Ministry official bent on suppressing free speech as the new Defense against the Dark Arts teacher puts Hogwarts in a turmoil.  Meanwhile, Harry suffers a series of dreams that point to a mysterious connection with Voldemort himself.<br />This is an incredible book with a riveting story populated by many characters: old and new,likable and despicable.  The humour is less pronounced and the tone is much darker than any of the Potter books so far. Much of the content involves people in power abusing their authority in particularly malicious, self righteous ways which makes _Order of the Phoenix_ quite painful to read at times.  It made me really remember what it was like to be fifteen, no longer a child yet not an adult, having to learn diplomatic behavior in situations where one would rather lash out and never feeling as though one is being taken seriously when it matters.<br />Rowling did a number of things with this book that surprised me as well as many things I expected from foreshadowing in previous volumes.  I am continually impressed with her foreshadowing, actually -- having recently reread the entire series, I saw that she actually hinted at some of the happenings here very early on.  Some villains finally get theirs, some unfortunately don't.  Some people wake up to what's going on;  some you've still got to wonder about. The action-packed denoument was thrilling -- one of the best I've read anywhere.<br />The romance angle was well written, painting a painfully accurate picture of the awkwardness that comes between fifteen-year-old girls and boys.  But I didn't think there was quite enough of it, actually -- it seemed kind of tacked on for form's sake.  Also the much touted death of a central character was not as affecting as I had hoped.  I expected Rowling to make a less safe, more poignant choice.<br />Some of the content of this book is very intense and I have real doubts as to whether Potter fans under the age of eleven or twelve will appreciate the current volume as much as they have the last four.  I think parents can expect a lot of questions. On the other hand, adolescent readers will probably find _Order of the Phoenix_ the most relevant book yet!<br />Despite a few flaws, _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ is a definite five star book, well worth the wait.  I'm already panting for book six!  I hope I don't have to wait another three years!ing -- one of the best I've read anywhere.<br />The romance angle was well written, painting a painfully accurate picture of the awkwardness that comes between fifteen-year-old girls and boys.  But I didn't think there was quite enough of it, actually -- it seemed kind of tacked on for form's sake.  Also the much touted death of a central character was not as affecting as I had hoped.  I expected Rowling to make a less safe, more poignant choice.<br />Some of the content of this book is very intense and I have real doubts as to whether Potter fans under the age of eleven or twelve will appreciate the current volume as much as they have the last four.  I think parents can expect a lot of questions. On the other hand, adolescent readers will probably find _Order of the Phoenix_ the most relevant book yet!<br />Despite a few flaws, _Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix_ is a definite five star book, well worth the wait.  I'm already panting for book six!  I hope I don't have to wait another three years!	2003-06-23
US	45881099	RJEC309ZHNV2T	0756401356	805995001	The War of the Flowers (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Really, Really Good -- But Probably Not For Everyone	_War of the Flowers_ starts out with a standard device in fantasy literature of the fey variety: Theo Vilmos is a singer in a California rock band.  His band-mates are barely out of high school and at the age of thirty, he's beginning to wonder whether he's ever going to grow up and make something of himself. A series of personal crises sends Theo to a cabin in the mountains to sort things out. Soon enough he finds himself drawn into Faerie, where he is a pawn in the power struggles between several noble families.<br />There is so much to like about this book! First off, Tad Williams is just an incredible writer: his characterizations are deft and realistic, his descriptions of both places and experiences are moving and his vision breathes a needed note of originality into an increasingly over-used theme. WotF uses many of the standards of faery lore to paint a very different picture than one might be used to seeing, and I found it incredibly absorbing.<br />There's a lot of darkness in this book, but there's humour, too, and a sense of irony that struck me as a very true depiction of the way a mortal mind might work when trying to make sense of things that just don't cop to this-world rules. There is not, however, that overblown sense of magic and mystery to which many writers succumb when trying to tackle the subject. We're shown a Faerie that is a super-real reflection of our own world rather than one that is awe-inspiring on a spiritual level. Probably not all readers will appreciate this take, as it makes for uncomfortable reading at times.<br />Williams also manages to reconcile different faery mythologies in a way that makes sense, so that there's room in his world for both the more human, Tuatha De Danaan type fairy and the Victorian Flower Fairy.  And he gives a reasonable explanation for culturally different kinds of fairy lore while totally dispelling the notion that all mystical beings must live in some idealised 5th century Tuath.  I really appreciated this.<br />As far as plot itself goes, there isn't a whole lot new here.  It's what Williams does with it that makes WotF an incredible read.<br />If you're looking for the same old superficial take on Faerie that some writers dish out this book is probably not for you. If, however, you're looking for an absorbing challenge that will make you think. _War of the Flowers_ is a great choice.this.<br />As far as plot itself goes, there isn't a whole lot new here.  It's what Williams does with it that makes WotF an incredible read.<br />If you're looking for the same old superficial take on Faerie that some writers dish out this book is probably not for you. If, however, you're looking for an absorbing challenge that will make you think. _War of the Flowers_ is a great choice.	2003-06-02
US	45881099	R1PNPYZIZ4KOX4	0765306808	487254619	Cat in a Neon Nightmare: A Midnight Louie Mystery (Midnight Louie Mysteries)	Books	2	2	7	N	N	They Keep Getting Worse	In _Cat in a Neon Nightmare_ Matt Devine deals with the moral implications of his date with a call girl and its aftermath, Max indulges in some unwonted maudlin introspection while continuing to track down the mysterious \\"Synth,\\"  Temple alternately feels betrayed, works a convention for no apparent reason and considers the strange differences between men and women, and Lt. Molina tries very hard to convince the reader that she's right about everything while acting her usual \\"I must be strong while denying everything feminine about me\\" role.  Oh yeah, and Louie wanders around getting underfoot to no real purpose.<br />I really enjoyed the first nine or ten books in this series, but at this point I think Carole Nelson Douglas has bitten off more than she can effectively chew.  Personally, I like a book with a coherent plot. \\"Neon Nightmare\\" pays lip service to the idea of actually having a crime solved in every book, but the ostensible main story is pushed so far to the rear of the various sub-plots that in the end it seems pointless;  it added that little to the book.  All in all, the book had a very scattered feeling as it leapt from one subplot to another without much evidence of any connecting thread.<br />CND is not a bad writer, and there are times even here when her descriptions of place and action are very engaging.  Unfortunately all too often the book devolves into the internal musings of the characters, all of whom seem to have read way too much pop psychology, which often causes them to make smug value judgements about the choices of anyone with any kind of alternative lifestyle.  I am also just a little bit tired of the continual revelations that every single character has some major abuse issue in his or her past.  All in all, the tone of the book crossed the line, at too many times, into the sententious and preachy.<br />Added to that, the book was sloppily constructed, with numerous pointless scenes, jumps in timeline, missing explanations and inattention to detail -- for example, referring to the barrier between the actor and the audience as both the \\"third wall\\" and the \\"fourth wall\\" at different times, using similes based in ignorance, and not knowing how to spell \\"Spider-Man.\\"<br />I must admit that I still have some curiosity as to how all this is going to turn out.  But at this point I think I'm going to give it one more book to convince me that finding the answers is worth the trouble of continued reading.ention to detail -- for example, referring to the barrier between the actor and the audience as both the \\"third wall\\" and the \\"fourth wall\\" at different times, using similes based in ignorance, and not knowing how to spell \\"Spider-Man.\\"<br />I must admit that I still have some curiosity as to how all this is going to turn out.  But at this point I think I'm going to give it one more book to convince me that finding the answers is worth the trouble of continued reading.	2003-05-15
US	45881099	RNRSIESFLAQJO	0312872402	31293441	Kushiel's Avatar	Books	4	8	10	N	N	More Adult Themes, Less Swash	In _Kushiel's Chosen_, an oracle promised Phedre no Delaunay de Montreve ten years of peace.  Now, the ten years are up and she finds that the peace that is threatened is her own peace of mind as she struggles to find the final key to undo the curse that keeps her childhood friend, Hyacinthe, imprisoned on a lonely island.<br />_Kushiel's Avatar_ is a quieter and more contemplative book in tone than the previous two in the series.  It's a Quest book, yes, but the quest is as much spiritual in nature as it is a quest for a physical object.  To complete the tasks before her, Phedre must come to certain realizations about the nature of love, the nature of compassion and the importance of family.  I thought Carey handled these topics incredibly well, indulging in less sermonizing that one might expect while showing a lot of clarity of thought and example.<br />The plot is complex, encompassing a huge number of characters and covering a lot of territory, but events are more important as pieces of an underlying pattern.  Therefore, they are not always gone into in great detail.  There is much less action, less intrigue, less swashbuckling and straightforward adventure than we have seen in Carey's previous novels.  There is less kinky sex.  This might annoy some readers who are looking for an action-packed book, but I found it very fitting.  Overall, I found _Kushiel's Avatar_ to be a more mature book and I thought it was an appropriate close to the series.<br />I actually liked this volume better than I liked its predecessors.  Unfortunately, grammatical concerns force me to rate it at only four stars;  I just think writers should not use words like \\"Whence\\" and \\"Thence\\" when it's obvious that they have no idea what they mean.  Carey also has trouble recognizing adverbs and choosing the correct noun case in complex sentences.  I am the kind of person who finds this extremely distracting.<br />If you're looking for the sword fighting, political hijinks and steamy encounters of _Kushiel's Dart_ and Kushiel's Chosen_, you may be disappointed in _Kushiel's Avatar_.  If you can enjoy a thoughtful book where theme and plot are carefully woven to tella complex story, you won't be dusappointed.ers of _Kushiel's Dart_ and Kushiel's Chosen_, you may be disappointed in _Kushiel's Avatar_.  If you can enjoy a thoughtful book where theme and plot are carefully woven to tella complex story, you won't be dusappointed.	2003-05-12
US	45881099	R2MADQ3M2C4X4T	0375411992	838568330	Blackwood Farm (The Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	54	59	N	N	Better Than I Expected	I've been increasingly disappointed in Anne Rice's books.  It seems that she, like many authors, is wonderful at starting an engrossing series and less able to continue with it.  _Blackwood Farm_, however, harkens back to some of her eariler work lends fresh blood (heh heh) to the Vampire Chronicles.<br />Quinn Blackwood, a young (both in human age and in terms of his &quot;change&quot;) vampire, has a problem.  As long as he can remember, he's been haunted by a sometimes loving and sometimes malicious spirit whom he calls Goblin.  Since Quinn's change, Goblin has become more sinister and more powerful.  Quinn seeks out the most famous and powerful vampire he knows of -- Lestat, in quite a good cameo role -- to help him put an end to the spirit who is threatening Quinn's mortal friends and relations.<br />What I liked best about this book is that it's essentially Quinn's tale of growing up among the people and ghosts of a rich southern family -- a family with its own mysteries and legends.  The characterization of people, spirits and place is deftly handled.  In fact, this is one of the things I think Anne Rice does best:  weaving character and setting together into a specific atmosphere, and I was glad to see her get back to it after neglecting the practice in her last few novels.<br />I also liked the way she brought together her two major New Orleans mythologies -- the Vampires and the Mayfairs (although it still seems a bit contrived to me, the way that everyone seems to be a member of one or the other group.)  I was glad to see what became of Mona Mayfair, as well as Rowan and Michael.  I think, however, that it would be difficult to understand everything that was going on without having read the three Mayfair Witches books;  a lot of reference was made to the events in those and I know I would have been confused and distracted had I not read them.<br />Another thing I liked was that in _Blackwood Farm_, Rice relies a lot less on the same old tired vampiric events to move the story along.  Not only is Quinn a new vampire completely unrelated to and even (for the most part) unaware of the vampires we know from former books, but also his transformation doesn't take place until relatively late in the story.  So there's quite a bit less of the Blood-Hunt-Identity Crisis-Yikes I'm Immortal! flavour of some of the more recent vampire chronicles.<br />We still have the requisite Scholarly Tweedy Englishman of a Certain Age to represent the Talamasca.  And we're still dealing with people who, even as mortals, have more money than God, which sometimes makes the story hard to swallow. (I wish sometimes we could follow the adventures of a working class vampire who was not so ready to give up his culture of origin.)The predictable ending gets points for getting rid of a character who never should have existed in the first place but loses some points for transforming yet another interesting mortal.<br />On the whole, though, I liked _Blackwood Farm_.  It actually reminded me of _Interview with a Vampire_ more than any of the other books.  I think most people who like Anne Rice will enjoy it.ents to move the story along.  Not only is Quinn a new vampire completely unrelated to and even (for the most part) unaware of the vampires we know from former books, but also his transformation doesn't take place until relatively late in the story.  So there's quite a bit less of the Blood-Hunt-Identity Crisis-Yikes I'm Immortal! flavour of some of the more recent vampire chronicles.<br />We still have the requisite Scholarly Tweedy Englishman of a Certain Age to represent the Talamasca.  And we're still dealing with people who, even as mortals, have more money than God, which sometimes makes the story hard to swallow. (I wish sometimes we could follow the adventures of a working class vampire who was not so ready to give up his culture of origin.)The predictable ending gets points for getting rid of a character who never should have existed in the first place but loses some points for transforming yet another interesting mortal.<br />On the whole, though, I liked _Blackwood Farm_.  It actually reminded me of _Interview with a Vampire_ more than any of the other books.  I think most people who like Anne Rice will enjoy it.	2003-05-08
US	45881099	RAHYS9B9DVRCS	0765341301	284373444	The Wayfarer Redemption: Book One	Books	2	15	19	N	N	Gleefullly Unoriginal	1000-odd years ago in the \\"Wars of the Axe,\\" the human population of Tercendor rose up against the non-human populations, naming them \\"The Forbidden\\" and attributing all sorts of nastiness to them.  The humans, following the deity Artor and its \\"Way of the Plough,\\" proceeded to clear cut once vast forests where the non-human populations lived and slaughter the non-humans wherever they were found.  Now, a great evil has arisen that, according to prophecy, can only be defeated by the three races working together and led by one StarMan.  Unfortunately for everyone concerned, the StarMan seems to be the Warleader of the dominant religion, which preaches persecution and extermination of the \\"Forbidden.\\"<br />This book is not totally awful, and if you're under 15 or you've never read a fantasy novel before it might actually excite you.  But if you're a dedicated reader of fantasy with some knowledge of what's out there and how elegant and moving the genre can be, I'd give TWR a miss, unless you're looking for something to keep you occupied on the train or during an illness.<br />TWR is chock-full of fantasy cliches, from the Ancient Prophecy to the Ultimate Evil Arising in the (Insert Compass Point Here);  from the Bastard Enchanter of Mixed Blood to the Strangely Eccentric Keepers of the Prophecy.  It reminded me of being in junior high and reading _Lord of the Rings_ and thinking, \\"I want to write something just like that!!!\\";  it was so gleefully unoriginal.<br />As far as characters go -- well, if you take one or two from every epic fantasy ever written, you'll have a pretty good idea of who you'll be finding here.  Sometimes that's not so bad, as you can welcome stock characters as old friends.  Not here.  It's more like really bad blurry pictures of old friends. In addition to being stock, the characters are exceedingly one-dimensional except in those rare moments when the writer inserts some kind of emotional distress, which she generally does in the most bombastic tone possible.  Another thing that really bothered me about the characters was that every internal conflict was resolved too quickly, like:  \\"Gee my entire way of life is wrong and bigoted?  Okay, now that I know that I'll stop and be good!\\"<br />Because there was essentially no character development, the book hinges on action to move it along.  Half of the action consists of characters running hither and yon all over the face of the country;  the other half consists of the obligatory battle scenes.  Neither was very well done or engaging.<br />Some of the ideas could have been interesting if handled by another writer;  lack of originality is not necesarily bad in itself if the work is of mythic dimensions.  Unfortunately, Ms. Douglass hasn't the skill to pull off a story of archetypal proportions.  Her writing is, frankly, juvenile, both in style and technique.  This is a writer who has no idea of the use of a semi-colon, who jumps POV far too often and to little effect and whose sentence craft consists of long strings of \\"It was\\" statements. There were several places I burst out laughing at her constructions, notably at the point where the mysterious and reclusive magical race was described as having a love of \\"seduction, magic and interior decorating.\\"<br />Still, there's something kind of endearing about _The Wayfarer Redemption_, something akin to watching a puppy stumble around and trip over its ears.  There's potential there. It's just a question of whether the writer will ever fulfill it, or whether the reader has the patience to stick around until she does.ic tone possible.  Another thing that really bothered me about the characters was that every internal conflict was resolved too quickly, like:  \\"Gee my entire way of life is wrong and bigoted?  Okay, now that I know that I'll stop and be good!\\" <br />Because there was essentially no character development, the book hinges on action to move it along.  Half of the action consists of characters running hither and yon all over the face of the country;  the other half consists of the obligatory battle scenes.  Neither was very well done or engaging.<br />Some of the ideas could have been interesting if handled by another writer;  lack of originality is not necesarily bad in itself if the work is of mythic dimensions.  Unfortunately, Ms. Douglass hasn't the skill to pull off a story of archetypal proportions.  Her writing is, frankly, juvenile, both in style and technique.  This is a writer who has no idea of the use of a semi-colon, who jumps POV far too often and to little effect and whose sentence craft consists of long strings of \\"It was\\" statements. There were several places I burst out laughing at her constructions, notably at the point where the mysterious and reclusive magical race was described as having a love of \\"seduction, magic and interior decorating.\\"<br />Still, there's something kind of endearing about _The Wayfarer Redemption_, something akin to watching a puppy stumble around and trip over its ears.  There's potential there. It's just a question of whether the writer will ever fulfill it, or whether the reader has the patience to stick around until she does.	2003-04-01
US	45881099	RW3VNNZCZOC8O	0765345048	719563321	Kushiel's Chosen: A Novel (Kushiel's Legacy)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Uncommonly Good	In _Kushiel's Chosen_ Phedre no Delaunay, Countess of Montreve, courtesan and spy, takes it upon herself to find a traitor in the court of her queen.  The mission takes her on a journey of both physical and spiritual dimensions, changes her life and the lives of everyone around her and brings her face to face with her personal nemesis, Melisande.<br />I picked up this book for its intriguing cover, not having read the first volume in the series, _Kushiel's Dart_.  At my first glimpse of the map in the front, I was prepared to be disappointed;  I've read all too many plodding tomes based on thinly veiled versions of our world, and here was a map of Europe staring me in the face with only the names changed.  Well, I'm happy to say that I was wrong!  From the first page _Kushiel's Chosen_ caught my attention and held it right through the end.<br />The voice of the main character is strong and true throughout.  This is a woman of wide experience who has a good understanding of human nature, but who has not succumbed to cynicism.  She knows her strengths and her weaknessed but is neither arrogant nor whining.  The characters around her are also complex and realistic and the story, full of intrigue and deception, never descends to trite and easy answers.  Though the world is based on our own and has enough references to keep it from being totally unintelligible, it is different enough to make the journey worth it.  Ms. Carey has invented a political and religious system with complex and deep implications and she isn't afraid to explore her ideas to their fullest extent.  Where others might have shied away, she dives right in.<br />You can read this book, as I did, without having read the first in the series:  Most of what you need to know is filled in along the way.  But I ordered _Kushiel's Dart_ as soon as I had finished _Kushiel's Chosen_, and I plan on ordering the third book when it's available.  So you might want to start from the beginning and go on from there.<br />I don't often read a 700-odd page novel that keeps my attention for each and every word.  This one did.  Applause to Jacqueline Carey for it!/>I don't often read a 700-odd page novel that keeps my attention for each and every word.  This one did.  Applause to Jacqueline Carey for it!	2003-03-25
US	45881099	RNABRY04QW6OG	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	2	90	134	N	N	Yep, It's a Fantasy Novel	Karigan G'Ladheon has been expelled from school for fighting the son of a local aristocrat and winning. On her way home in a huff, she literally stumbles across a dying King's Messenger (or Green Rider)who with his last breath makes Karigan swear that she will deliver the message that got him killed. Of course she does, and thus begins her ride through the wilds of Sacoridia, where she is pursued by all kinds of foes and occasionally helped out by the good guys on her way to the capital.<br />This book has, in my opinion, received excessively high ratings from most of the reviewers here. To a reader who appreciates thinking and original fantasy, _The Green Rider_ might merit two and a half stars, but certainly no more. In the first place, it is extremely derivative. Every fantasy cliche one could ever hope never to see again is present here: the Naive Child Taking on a Task that Will Change Her Life; The Ancient Evil Awakening; The Reluctant but Oddly Capable Monarch; The Dissatisfied Noble; The Monarch's Tyrannical and Scheming Brother; The Legendary Race of Elf-Analogs; The Obligatory Environmental Message; The Revolutionary Agitator and more ad nauseam. The worst part is that most of these cliches are jammed into the first 100-odd pages, giving the initial portion of the book an extremely disjointed feel as the reader keeps searching for some sign of plot progression only to be thwarted again and again. To its credit the novel actually does manage to incorporate most -- but not all-- of these cliches into a relevant plot by the end of the book. But as a whole _Green Rider_ reads like Anne McCaffrey meets Mercedes Lackey meets Terry Brooks, only not so good as any of those.<br />Taking an innocent (or ignorant) character through a journey across an unknown land is not an inherently bad device for a novel and it's been used to great effect by writers I enjoy and respect. The problem here is that neither the land nor the journey is unique enough to make it interesting. The characters and the situations are stock. There were several times that I saw an opportunity to add a startling or at least unpredictable turn of events, but the turn was never taken and characters who could have been interesting simply fell by the wayside, making me think they'd only appeared to serve the latest cliche. In addition, every character was so under developed that reading this book was like watching a really bad cartoon.<br />Aside from the occasional trite metaphor, Ms. Britain is not a bad writer. I did find some of the middle portions of the book really engaging. Unfortunately, the flow was inevitably interrupted by yet another cliche that went nowhere.<br />There are two real points in this book's favour: At the end, Karigan did not do the expected thing and the book really did end without too many of those loose threads that make a sequel de rigeur. That's fortunate, since _Green Rider_ was released in 1998 and Ms Britain's next book is scheduled for 2003. Let's hope she spent the intervening time developing the world and the people in it.ng. The characters and the situations are stock. There were several times that I saw an opportunity to add a startling or at least unpredictable turn of events, but the turn was never taken and characters who could have been interesting simply fell by the wayside, making me think they'd only appeared to serve the latest cliche. In addition, every character was so under developed that reading this book was like watching a really bad cartoon.<br />Aside from the occasional trite metaphor, Ms. Britain is not a bad writer. I did find some of the middle portions of the book really engaging. Unfortunately, the flow was inevitably interrupted by yet another cliche that went nowhere.<br />There are two real points in this book's favour: At the end, Karigan did not do the expected thing and the book really did end without too many of those loose threads that make a sequel de rigeur. That's fortunate, since _Green Rider_ was released in 1998 and Ms Britain's next book is scheduled for 2003. Let's hope she spent the intervening time developing the world and the people in it.	2003-03-25
US	45881099	RHZB1IQODCG5A	0765306646	448868894	Cowboy Feng's Space Bar and Grille	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Clever, but Hollow	Five-hundred odd years from now, SOMEONE has succeeded in wiping out most of the human race and has turned its attention to the inhabitants of the inoffensive Cicero cluster.  In order to identify and (ideally) stop the someone from succeeding, the Ciceronians build a time travel unit in the shape of a bar and grille.  Its mission:  to hop between certain nexus points in time in the hopes of finding the relevant information.  Armed with a staff of four and a four-piece Irish band that it happened to pick up along the way, can Cowboy Feng's save humanity?<br />I've read and enjoyed nearly everything else Steven Brust has written and I'd heard a lot of good things about this book from other musicians on the Irish circuit (all of whom, strangely enough, seem to be fantasy enthusiasts).  So when I saw that _Cowboy Feng's Space Bar and Grille_ had been reprinted, I bought it immediately.  AS I read, however, I had the increasingly uncomfortable sensation that I was missing something.  I kept paging back and re-reading previous bits, thinking that I had somehow missed a bit of the plot, but I never found it. Finally, a day after finishing the book, I realised what it was that was missing.<br />This book has no characters.  It has a bunch of mannerisms with names.  Rose drinks whiskey.  Jaime sleeps around.  Tom makes puns.  You get the idea.  Even the between-chapter vignettes, each of which details an incident in a character's life, don't do a to make them real;  all they do is show you that each and every one of these people has had a screwed up experience somewhere along the line. So as the book progresses and things happen, you don't really care.<br />Some of the plotting is clever, but it's hardly original;  I had the big surprise ending pegged from about page ten.  And I have to say that the endless detailed descriptions of how the band played their arrangements of trad music really lost me.  As a musician myself, I found one or two of these mildly entertaining, but after a while I thought Brust would have done better to include a CD of suggested material and inserted the play instructions wherever he felt inclined to put a description.  I can't imagine how boring this might be to anyone not in the scene.<br />Lots of Brust's other work is both original and chock full of varied and engaging characters.  Read those instead.after a while I thought Brust would have done better to include a CD of suggested material and inserted the play instructions wherever he felt inclined to put a description.  I can't imagine how boring this might be to anyone not in the scene.<br />Lots of Brust's other work is both original and chock full of varied and engaging characters.  Read those instead.	2003-03-24
US	45881099	RPLSVU47KVA8L	055329461X	537633620	The Difference Engine (Spectra special editions)	Books	1	58	79	N	N	Huh?	Okay, right now I'm on a cyberpunk kick and I picked this book up at the library because the premise sounded interesting:  what if the computer (&quot;Engine&quot; in the book lingo) had been invented in the nineteenth century?  And what if the government of England had been taken over by and Industrial Radical party that essentially made the industrial revolution more so?<br />Well, after reading the book I still don't feel like I had any answer to those questions.  In fact, I don't really feel like this book had any cohesion at all.  Essentially what we have here is three novellas, each with a different central character.  But other than a mysterious box of punch cards which each of them at one time or another possesses, there isn't any throughline.  There are tantalising bits of plot here and there, but none of it seems to go anywhere or make any sense.  And the box of cards has no impact;  everyone's out to get it, but why?  Who knows what it does?  Why should we care?<br />Characters appear and disappear with infuriating randomness -- just when you think something's going to happen, Oops!  that's the end of that bit and no we're somewhere else.  Conspiracies are hinted at but then they just vanish or become unimportant with no explanation.  I kept waiting for all the threads to come together and knock me over the head with significance, but that never happened.<br />Some of the alternate reality stuff was interesting, but there just wasn't enough backstory to make it relevant.  All in all, the book left me with the feeling of &quot;What the heck was that about?&quot;  If the writers knew, I wish they had seen fit to share.	2003-02-05
US	45881099	R35EUWFLZI7RFY	0312864590	656525801	Crossroads of Twilight (The Wheel of Time, Book 10)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Please, Mr. Jordan, get on with it!	I resisted reading the Wheel of Time series for a number of years because I figured it for an over-hyped Tolkein rip-off.  When I finally did read the first volumes, I was not ashamed to admit that I had been wrong.  Robert Jordan writes beautifully, with great attention to detail and the world he has created, while not exactly original in many respects, is so absorbing and fully realised that it's hard to believe it doesn't exist somewhere.<br />That being said, I have to agree with most of the other reviewers that _Crossroads of Twilight_ is the low point of this series (I actually liked book eight, which most people found pretty dull).  AFter the events in _Winter's Heart_, a slow book in itself, I expected the plot to pick up a bit in volume ten and hoped that at least a few of the subplots -- like Faile's kidnapping -- might be resolved.  That, sadly, was not to be.  It's not that absolutely nothing happened, but what happened was so small and took so long to say that reading was almost a chore.  It's as if Jordan has got bogged down in his sense of detail and used it to mask the fact that not much is going on.  By this point in the series, I think we understand how Mat feels about women and how angry and frustrated Perrin is and how people feel about Asha'man and Aes Sedai;  we don't need to have it pounded into out heads.  Likewise, I think we understand that we're in a fantasy realm and the details of everybody's clothing and the drinking of spiced wine are not needed to reinforce the setting.<br />The book starts with a 95 page \\"prologue\\" that I think could have been cut all together and the next 300 pages essentially say nothing but that everyone anywhere who can channel is aware of what Rand's doing at Shadar Logoth but no one knows what it is and everyone is freaking out.  If that had been the prologue we could have started at page 100 and maybe gone somewhere interesting in 600 pages, but that didn't happen and it left a bad taste in my mouth.<br />I don't mind whole books passing without dealing in detail with every major character.  If Jordan had focussed on one or two and advanced their stories, I would have liked this book better.  As it is, he just checks in with many of them and I wondered why he bothered.<br />I am also beginning to be more than annoyed with the lack of communication between the characters.  Rand cleanses the male half of the source and then doesn't tell anyone?  Can you say, \\"Shooting yourself in the foot?\\"  I think if anyone's going to survive Tarmon Gai'don, they'd better come down off their high horses, give up the idea that their own little cliques know what's best for the world and start talking.<br />I give this book three stars because the writing is still above par and because I did enjoy each little bit, and because I can appreciate CoT as a vast chapter in a vast story. But I really think that to redeem himself RJ would be best advised to release book 11 within six months and have it be a rollicking good corker with plenty of action.n't mind whole books passing without dealing in detail with every major character.  If Jordan had focussed on one or two and advanced their stories, I would have liked this book better.  As it is, he just checks in with many of them and I wondered why he bothered.<br />I am also beginning to be more than annoyed with the lack of communication between the characters.  Rand cleanses the male half of the source and then doesn't tell anyone?  Can you say, \\"Shooting yourself in the foot?\\"  I think if anyone's going to survive Tarmon Gai'don, they'd better come down off their high horses, give up the idea that their own little cliques know what's best for the world and start talking.<br />I give this book three stars because the writing is still above par and because I did enjoy each little bit, and because I can appreciate CoT as a vast chapter in a vast story. But I really think that to redeem himself RJ would be best advised to release book 11 within six months and have it be a rollicking good corker with plenty of action.	2003-01-27
US	45881099	R15GVNJSD315F1	0312864787	343590457	The Paths of the Dead	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Not my favourite	For the last ten years or so, _The Viscount of Adrilankha_ has been listed as a forthcoming book.  Well, here it is, at least in part. In _The Paths of the Dead_ Steven Brust continues his amusing Dumas riff with a parallel to that esteemed author's _The Vicomte de Bragelonne_.  Like that work, PotD is the first of a trilogy.  Also like that work, PotD is, well, a pale shadow of its very entertaining predecessors.<br />Essentially, this book is the tale of the end of the Dragearan Interregnum (or the beginning thereof) and the oft mentioned story of how Zerika III traveled the Paths of the Dead to bring back the Orb and restore the Empire.  If you don't know what that last sentence meant, you probably do not want to read this book because PotD takes for granted a certain familiarity with Brust's previous work in this particular world.  Start with _The Phoenix Guards_ or something in the Vlad Taltos line.<br />I did not enjoy this book as much as I usually enjoy Brust's work, and especially the volumes in this series.  Although the Dragaeran books are numerous and -- I suspect -- encompass a vast, single story, each volume until now has stood alone, telling a complete tale.  PotD does not, not really.  It does get Zerika through her task, but the vast cast of other characters are merely jockeyed about with very little sense that they have any connection to anything.  I particularly could not fathom why Morrolan appeared in this book at all, as he didn't do anything.  I would have preferred it if Brust had just left him out of it and brought him in in _The Lord of Castle Black_.  I also felt that the coachman could have used more explanation to make him fit into this reality.  As it was, he just seemed like an interesting concept from _The Gypsy_ that didn't quite fit.<br />I also have to admit that the Paarfi-speak is wearing a little thin with me.  When you have a book where something is actually happening it's an amusing stylistic device.  But so little happened in PotD that it felt as though the sole reason for the book was to continue the stylistic exercise;  I was keenly aware that the language actually was used to stretch a very brief narrative into 400-odd pages.  And I found the treatise on how to write like Paarfi a bit smug, like someone indulging in an in-joke.  I've read 3 books in this style now, I don't really need to have the details pointed out to me.<br />All in all, I think I would have preferred it if Brust (and/or the publisher) had just waited and released _The Viscount of Adrilankha_ as one book, or all at one time.  I'd waited ten years for it, I could have waited a couple more.  And I don't feel that BRust's style (or Paarfi's) is really suited to a boundaryless story with no clear progression or end.<br />Brust fans will want to read this one, but if you aren't already a fan, don't start here!PotD that it felt as though the sole reason for the book was to continue the stylistic exercise;  I was keenly aware that the language actually was used to stretch a very brief narrative into 400-odd pages.  And I found the treatise on how to write like Paarfi a bit smug, like someone indulging in an in-joke.  I've read 3 books in this style now, I don't really need to have the details pointed out to me.<br />All in all, I think I would have preferred it if Brust (and/or the publisher) had just waited and released _The Viscount of Adrilankha_ as one book, or all at one time.  I'd waited ten years for it, I could have waited a couple more.  And I don't feel that BRust's style (or Paarfi's) is really suited to a boundaryless story with no clear progression or end.<br />Brust fans will want to read this one, but if you aren't already a fan, don't start here!	2003-01-24
US	45881099	R2A7VN0FBO9SVG	0345368932	982982501	All the Weyrs of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Great Story, Poor Continuity	In _All the Weyrs of Pern_ the large cast of characters from the Dragonrider and Harper Hall books, with the help of the Ancient AI device unearthed at the end of _Renegades_, settle down to their ultimate task: Ridding Pern of Thread for once and for all.<br />I've read all the Pern books over and over since I first discovered them in eighth grade -- _Dragonquest_ was the first book I bought with my own money. In the main, I really enjoy them. Anne McCaffrey writes well and her ideas are very original, particularly in the earlier books in the series. Some of the later volumes have not thrilled me, however. _Renegades_ I found particularly unmoving, so I picked up ATW with some trepidation the first time. But this is the Dragonriders series at its best, with all the characters the reader has come to know and love facing challenges with fortitude and even humour.<br />I don't argue that McCaffrey is a great storyteller. She is at her best in situationally-driven stories (rather than character-driven), particularly those where her charcters are put in a new, alien and/or hostile environment where they must develop the skills to succeed in various tasks.  This is part of what makes her Dragonrider series appealing to fans of straight science fiction as well as fans of fantasy.  And as the basic theme of ATW, it makes for an absorbing read.<br />McCaffrey needs a continuity editor, however. As her world becomes more and more complex it seems she has trouble keeping track of the details. Unfortunately, I am the kind of person who is bothered by this.<br />Is Jancis a Mastersmith or a journeyman smith? She seems to be both, often in the same paragraph. And how did she come to be Fandarel's granddaughter when he formerly stated he had no wife, only his work? How did Sharra appear at landing to exchange a significant glance with Jancis, when before and after that single incident it was clearly stated she wasn't there at all? Why is Menolly telling AIVAS about her three children when in _Dolphins_ at a later date she is shown to be pregnant with only the second? How did Lord Oterel appear in _Dolphins_, long after the close of ATW, when he died before ATW ended? These are just some of the details that distracted me.<br />But, well, this is still a great book and one that really ties up the Pern series. I could only wish that Anne McCaffrey had ended here.dren when in _Dolphins_ at a later date she is shown to be pregnant with only the second? How did Lord Oterel appear in _Dolphins_, long after the close of ATW, when he died before ATW ended? These are just some of the details that distracted me.<br />But, well, this is still a great book and one that really ties up the Pern series. I could only wish that Anne McCaffrey had ended here.	2003-01-21
US	45881099	R1VDTHQD6TY7I5	0151006903	99041831	Baudolino	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Patchy	&quot;I don't know what to make of my life,&quot; Baudelino tells historian Niketas upon rescuing from the sack of Constantinople in 1204.  He then proceeds to relate the entire story, hoping that an outside listener can provide him with some clarity.<br />I really wanted to like this book better than I did.  I generally love the combination of history and fantasy, and the middle ages is one of my favourite time periods.  But a lot about _Baudolino_ left me cold.  While there were portions of the book where the writing really flowed and was quite engaging, as in the lyrical descriptions of Baudolino's love affairs, there were whole chapters that seemed to be no more than lists of wonders -- as one character said, &quot;If I hear one more thing about topaz, I'm going to throw up!&quot; I had a very hard time relating to any of the characters;  they seemed very two-dimensional.  And the middle parts of the book appeared to me to be a bunch of only vaguely related events that only served to pad out the number of pages.  I know that life often seems to be made up of random events without much relationship to each other until seen from the persepctive of time, and I know that this is in a large portion what _Baudolino_ was about, but the read was not enjoyable until the last two or three chapters when things began to come together.  I truly shared Baudolino's experience of slogging ahead on an arduous journey in order to reach the revelations of the last pages, but I really prefer my books to be more entertaining.<br />If you're looking for another _Name of the Rose_ or Foucault's Pendulum_, this isn't it.	2002-11-29
US	45881099	R1KM5OQGWGS1P8	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Not Up To Par	I never imagined I would give anything written by Neil Gaiman less than a five star rating, but I'm only giving _Coraline_ three stars because I feel so guilty that I didn't like it more than I did.  For something by a writer of such abilities, it struck me as particularly bland and lifeless, and did not live up to some of the raves I have heard, claiming that it is sure to replace _Alice in Wonderland_ as a new children's classic.<br />Coraline, a girl of about nine or ten (not specified, but that was the sense I got) lives with her parents in an old house that has been converted into flats.  Her parents are benignly neglectful and the other flats are populated by characters who are benignly eccentric.  During the course of exploring the house, Coraline discovers a mysterious passage between her flat and another, which sometimes is bricked up and sometimes gives access to an alternate and moderately darker version of reality.  There she meets a personage claiming to be her \\"other mother.\\"  This being tempts her to stay in the alternate reality forever and promises that she will never be bored and will have everything she wants.<br />The first thing that struck me about _Coraline_ was its stunning lack of originality.  From Alice to Narnia, how many books have we read where kids at loose ends discover alternate realities in old houses?  _Coraline_ did not really offer anything new on the subject.<br />The second thing that struck me was the banality of the characterization.  No one in this book stirred me to sympathy, or any emotion at all.  The evil character wasn't scary, merely boring.  The only interesting person was the cat, and there I was hampered by its similarity to the Cheshire Cat of Alice fame.<br />The writing had its moments.  I did recognise certain lines and phrases that appear verbatim in other of Gaiman's works, as if they had been recycled to add a little spice.  The story just didn't do a thing for me;  it seemed obvious and somewhat trite.  Although the alternate reality was supposed to frighten, or at least impress you with its darkness, it just left me with a big, \\"So What?\\"  I've had scarier neighbours and been scarier places in this reality!<br />For a writer of Gaiman's abilities, this seemed very off the cuff -- the sort of thing one might produce off the top of one's head as a bedtime story.  I missed the detail and the deeper exploration he most often gives his subjects, which I think would not be inappropriate to a childrens' book.  In the end, _Coraline_ came off as superficial.<br />Dave McKean's drawings were interesting, but the black and white pencils did not have the impact of some of his other work.  They also did not add much to the story.<br />_Coraline_ might make a good read-aloud book, where the reader could imbue the characters with personality and the situations with feeling.  It is an extremely easy read, and as such might be good for beginners.<br />\\"Alice,\\" however, it certainly is not.ough the alternate reality was supposed to frighten, or at least impress you with its darkness, it just left me with a big, \\"So What?\\"  I've had scarier neighbours and been scarier places in this reality!<br />For a writer of Gaiman's abilities, this seemed very off the cuff -- the sort of thing one might produce off the top of one's head as a bedtime story.  I missed the detail and the deeper exploration he most often gives his subjects, which I think would not be inappropriate to a childrens' book.  In the end, _Coraline_ came off as superficial.<br />Dave McKean's drawings were interesting, but the black and white pencils did not have the impact of some of his other work.  They also did not add much to the story.<br />_Coraline_ might make a good read-aloud book, where the reader could imbue the characters with personality and the situations with feeling.  It is an extremely easy read, and as such might be good for beginners.<br />\\"Alice,\\" however, it certainly is not.	2002-11-07
US	45881099	R2OZ62XULNJBTC	0394561619	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Difficult to Rate	Briefly put, _Love in the Time of Cholera_ follows the interconnected lives of three characters over a period of fifty-odd years:  Florentino Ariza, the illegitemate son of a shipping magnate, Fermina Daza, the woman with whom he is obsessed, and Juvenal Urbino, the doctor for whom she rejects Florentino.<br />It seems a little presumptuous of me to rate a book by a Nobel Prize winning writer, but in all honesty I didn't like this book very much.  It struck me as less a story than an OPUS. Although the writing is very, very good, full of rich detail about Central American life at the turn of the last century, I couldn't really relate to the characters or their situations.  They seemed inhuman and statue-like, devoid of intelligible emotion and motivation.  The style of the narrative also was very difficult to me, as it went on in an almost stream of consciousness manner, jumping from one character to another, from sex to fashion to dentures to revolution in a way that made my head swim.  There were very few breaks or natural stopping places and after the first hundred or so pages I got the unpleasant sensation, reading it, that I was trapped in a room with a meandering speaker who wouldn't shut up.  All in all, I couldn't relate and I found the characters pathetic.  I wanted to tell them all to just get a life.  It seemed as though that actually happened at the end, but it wasn't soon enough for me to rejoice in the resolution.  I was just glad it was over.<br />The writing was good, though.	2002-11-05
US	45881099	REIZ4EG43GUZU	0679454497	645550608	Blood and Gold (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	2	47	58	N	N	Explain to me again why I should care...	From his first appearance in _The Vampire Lestat_, Marius has been one of my favourite of Anne Rice's characters.  _Blood and Gold_, which purports to be Marius' story told in his own words, unfortunately goes a long way to proving that a good supporting character does not a leading man (or vampire, as the case may be) make.<br />I was not expecting much from this book, as, in my opinion, the Vampire Chronicles have seriously deteriorated from their excellent beginnings into a haphazard mishmash flecked with occasional points of interest.  Even so, I was disappointed.  In the first place, there was nothing really new here.  Every major event has already been related in far more detail in previous volumes, and Marius' personal perspective does not really add any new dimension.  For a being who has been around for 2000 years (give or take), Marius comes across as surprisingly un-introspective and divorced from his own experience.  As a supporting player, Marius has always struck me as one of the most &quot;human&quot; of the immortals, so the lack of deep human feeling in his personal story clashed with the character as I have come to understand him.  In fact, it seemed to me that Marius was revealed as an emotional adolescent, always attaching himself to the unavailable in order to find some justification for his existence.  It just didn't add up.<br />One thing I was looking for was some explanation of Marius' sudden about-face regarding the proper age one should have reached before being turned.  While some attempt was made to address this, it was distinctly unsatisfying, leaving me wondering why, if he had been convinced all along that vampires were best made from young humans, he had ever claimed the opposite.  Once again, it gave the impression that Marius has lived much of his life without intent or thought, simply allowing himself to be blown wherever the winds of fate happened to carry him.<br />The ending was totally incomprehensible, not in terms of events, but in terms of underlying logic.  Although it seemed pretty clear that what happened in the last ten or so pages was what Rice meant this book to accomplish, I didn't quite get why or how the story to that point led up to it.  It almost seemed to be the ending from some other story tacked on.<br />I was interested in Thorne, the mysterious Northern vampire who provided Marius with an audience.  I wished we could have known more about him, as perhaps that may have made his actions at the end of the book make some kind of sense.  But his story was sadly neglected;  we only got hints.  I thought this was a sorry oversight.<br />All in all, B&amp;G took a character whom I had liked and transformed him into someone I didn't like much at all and ignored potentially interesting threads in favour of a rehash of all-too-familiar events.  I can't recommend it, either to Rice fans or to those new to the series.s, but in terms of underlying logic.  Although it seemed pretty clear that what happened in the last ten or so pages was what Rice meant this book to accomplish, I didn't quite get why or how the story to that point led up to it.  It almost seemed to be the ending from some other story tacked on.<br />I was interested in Thorne, the mysterious Northern vampire who provided Marius with an audience.  I wished we could have known more about him, as perhaps that may have made his actions at the end of the book make some kind of sense.  But his story was sadly neglected;  we only got hints.  I thought this was a sorry oversight.<br />All in all, B&amp;G took a character whom I had liked and transformed him into someone I didn't like much at all and ignored potentially interesting threads in favour of a rehash of all-too-familiar events.  I can't recommend it, either to Rice fans or to those new to the series.	2002-10-11
US	45881099	R1YHH52PDBFSVB	0385720955	850910906	The Blind Assassin: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Story is in the Holes	On the face of it, Margaret Atwood's _The Blind Assassin_ is three stories in one.  First, it is the story of Iris Chase and her sister, Laura, two girls born to a prominent family in the early 1900s and growing to adulthood during the Great Depression.  Second, it is the eponymous \\"novel-within-a-novel,\\" which details the clandestine relationship between an upper-class woman and her blue-collar lover.  And third, it is the chronicle of the early half of the twentieth century vis the Chase-Griffen family, as detailed by numerous press clippings and anecdotes scattered throughout.  As the book progresses, Atwood skillfully weaves together the three threads into a whole that is more than the sum of its parts.<br />Throughout, the characters are deftly portrayed and the era they live in is vividly realised.  The voices, particularly that of the 83-year-old Iris, telling her story to set the record straight, are true and poignant.  But what really struck me as amazing about this book was the way the real story is in what is not said, what is not directly addressed until the very last pages.  Atwood pulls off an astonishing sleight of hand, deliberately blinding the reader to what is really going on so that, like the assassin of the title, one is forced to rely on other, less developed senses to get the full picture.  This is so deftly accomplished that when the revelation comes it is less an unveiling of something totally unexpected than a confirmation of suspicions held for a long time.  In the end it becomes clear that this novel is not three separate stories, but one vast one, where the absence of any of the parts would lessen the overall affect.  And that, rather than the ostensibly simple plot, is what makes this book so absorbing and so hard to put down.<br />_The Blind Assassin_ is one of the best books I've read all year and is my new favourite by this author.	2002-10-11
US	45881099	R3WIWDIGC42ZV	0345448928	785575065	The Fifth Sorceress (Chronicles of Blood and Stone, Book 1)	Books	1	24	27	N	N	Not just boring -- offensive, too!	I've been an avid reader for 35 years -- ever since I deciphered \\"Run, Spot, Run!\\" for the first time.  The number of books I have started and not finished in all that time can be counted on the fingers of one hand.  _The Fifth Sorceress_ made that short list faster than any other book -- within the first 75 pages.  The over-prolonged descriptions of this unoriginal fantasy land and its vapid characters paled before the end of the first chapter.  There was nothing in it to catch my interest or my attention, nothing that made any of the characters special other than the extreme annoyance I felt towards all of them.  The reluctant-yet-amazingly-magically-talented monarch was unbelievable as a man of thirty rather than a boy of 14;  the beautiful blonde princess was insipid, and Wizard Wigg's patronising attitude towards the pregnant Shailiha revolted me.  But perhaps the worst thing was the blatant \\"Man-wise-good, woman-ignorant-evil\\" attitude upon which the whole work seems to be based.  I've read about a lot of Dark Lords and Necromancers in my time, and a lot of Wicked Witches and Evil Stepmothers, but I have never seen a book that so linked evil and depraved behavior to gender so blatantly without giving any good explanation for it.  I tried really hard to keep reading in the hopes that some deeper meaning or layer of plot would be revealed, but I just couldn't do it.<br />_The Fifth Sorceress_ made me wonder how on earth it attracted the attention of any agent or editor long enough for it to get a hand up out of the slush pile.  Trying to read it literally made me sick at my stomach.  Watching T.V. is a better use of your time than trying to read this.	2002-09-11
US	45881099	R3JPP80RP8JL5Q	0345453751	932841635	The Sword of Shannara Trilogy	Books	3	7	12	N	N	I remember when...	_The Sword of Shannara_ first came out when I was in 10th grade.  Back then, fantasy wasn't the big property it is now.  In fact, aside from LOTR, the only fantasy available in my local bookstore was classified as science fiction and featured scantily-dressed, large breasted women on the covers, whether or not the interior had anything to do with any such thing.<br />_The Sword of Shannara_ was instrumental in changing all that and bringing fantasy into the mainstream, and for that alone it has earned a soft spot in my heart.  It features all the standard fantasy cliche's -- a legendary weapon, a mysterious wizard, a lost heir, a romance, a war with evil.  It also features a number of really absurd things, like a red-haired girl named \\"Ravenlock\\" and a wizard called \\"Allanon\\" (we used to wonder if he had a son named \\"Alateen\\" or a cousin named \\"Narcanon.\\")  A lot of Terry Brooks' other books, like _Magic Kingdom for Sale_ are way better as far as writing and originality.<br />I do believe that the Shannara books are classics for the role they've played in the genre.  However, like a lot of classics they pale when compared to some of the stuff out today.  Fans of straight quest-type books with no really deep ecological or political considerations will enjoy these.  They're also a good read for younger people looking for something to fill in the gaos between Harry Potter books.  The Hildebrandt illustrations are keen, too.	2002-08-28
US	45881099	R1LF69AOVEMSVF	0380977362	604572911	The House of Seven Mabels (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Somewhat disappointing	I was thrilled to see a new Jane Jefferys book by Jill Churchill on the new rack at my local library, because the series so far has been one of my favourites of the &quot;accidental sleuth&quot; variety.  Unfortunately, _House of the Seven Mables_ is not up to par, lacking much of the warmth and humour, and, yes, direction of the books in the rest of the series.<br />In the latest of a chain of good ideas that turn out badly, Jane and her sidekick Shelley Nowack get roped into acting as decorators for a friend who is remodeling a Victorian Monstrosity.  An iffy proposition from the start, the project goes increasingly sour as Jane and Shelley discover that the contractor is incompetent and the work is being sabotaged by persons unknown.  Soon enough someone turns up dead and to protect their own interests -- as well as their skins -- the two friends turn their talents towards solving the crime.<br />The premise is not a bad one, but the work as a whole borders on the incoherent, lacking discernable pattern and full of random detail that adds nothing to the plot.  The characters are lackluster and their motivations, where they appear, do not contribute to the mystery.  Many of the situations and characters are stereotyped.  I was particularly put off by the portrayal of feminism, which poked mean-natured fun at the concept and seemed to say that only whining incompetent women would embrace the title, while real women have no need for that kind of nonsense.<br />I also felt that the job-site setting was poorly researched and inaccurately portrayed.  With a husband in the building trades, I could not help but wonder how anyone in his or her right mind could have been roped into such a situation in the first place.  That such a  disaster as the remodeling project was allowed to continue as long as it did without the homeowner's taking action stretched my suspension of disbelief to the breaking point.<br />Jane and Shelley spend lots of time doing random things that have nothing to do with the matter at hand, almost as if they don't find the actual crime very interesting.  I'm sorry to say, it's not.  To anyone paying attention, the solution is evident from about chapter five.  This would have been okay if the book had put together successive pieces of the puzzle in a slow revelation of complex motive and complex relationships, but it didn't.  Jane literally stumbles on the solution by accident in what can best be called an anticlimax.<br />I was still amused by this book and I give it three stars rather than two because I like the series and care about the characters.  But it's a disappointment.nothing to do with the matter at hand, almost as if they don't find the actual crime very interesting.  I'm sorry to say, it's not.  To anyone paying attention, the solution is evident from about chapter five.  This would have been okay if the book had put together successive pieces of the puzzle in a slow revelation of complex motive and complex relationships, but it didn't.  Jane literally stumbles on the solution by accident in what can best be called an anticlimax.<br />I was still amused by this book and I give it three stars rather than two because I like the series and care about the characters.  But it's a disappointment.	2002-08-26
US	45881099	R2LW3FJ09OAT7L	0765343274	798059063	The King's Peace (Sulien)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	Unoriginal and Boring	_The King's Peace_ is another one of those books that a number people seem to have truly enjoyed.  I however, just can't grasp how they managed to do so as it left me so cold that I could barely manage to get through it.  Reading it was a horrific chore and not one I would urge on anyone.<br />Told through the eyes of woman warrior Sulien ap Gwien, _The King's Peace_ is a part of the history of the &quot;fictional&quot; land of Tar Tanagiri during the reign of its King, Urdo.  The King bears a striking and less than coincidental resemblance to the legendary Arthur and the land is remarkably similar in politics and history to 6th century Britain.<br />Now, I generally enjoy any and all re-imaginings of the &quot;Matter of Britain.&quot;  Unfortunately, _The King's Peace_ was less a re-imagining than it was a re-naming.  Although the introduction specifically states &quot;this is not our world or our history,&quot; there is nothing at all to differentiate Urdo and Tar Tanagiri from Arthur and Britain, aside from the names.  Likewise, every detail is pulled directly from our world and simply renamed.  The long-haired raiders are no longer Saxons, they're Jarns, and their god is not Odin but a remarkably similar one-eyed personage called Gangrader.  The toga-wearing conquerers of former times are not Romans but Vincans, and their language, which consists entirely of Latin words, is Old Vincan.  You have the Morgause Character and the Gawain Character, the Guinevere Character and the Lot Character, but no person or situation that is newly interpreted or that stands alone.  I found this not only annoying but incredibly tiresome, as it contributed to the book's being predictable and one-dimensional.  There was no spark to catch the imagination.<br />The main character and narrator is neither a deep nor subtle thinker.  Content with being a soldier and having as little real responsibility as possible, she is one of those bluff and hearty souls who often appear as supporting characters in fantasy novels.  The Captain of the Guard, the Master of Horse, the King's Father-in -Law.  You know the type.  They make really good supporting characters, but abysmal main characters because they have no real opinions or insights;  in fact, they shy away from them wherever possible.  This allows Sulien to undergo a brutal attack in the first chapter and never allow it to affect her thoughts or personality.  It allows her to have unreasoning and inexplicable devotion to a king who is utterly devoid of personality.  And it turns a 500-odd page novel into an excruciatingly boring chronicle of the details of feasts and battles without ever demanding that the characters develop or display any motivation for their actions beyond the obvious.<br />Read this book if you're looking for something long that never explores much of anything with depth or orginal insight.  Otherwise giveit a miss -- unless you're looking for a cure for insomnia.ng characters in fantasy novels.  The Captain of the Guard, the Master of Horse, the King's Father-in -Law.  You know the type.  They make really good supporting characters, but abysmal main characters because they have no real opinions or insights;  in fact, they shy away from them wherever possible.  This allows Sulien to undergo a brutal attack in the first chapter and never allow it to affect her thoughts or personality.  It allows her to have unreasoning and inexplicable devotion to a king who is utterly devoid of personality.  And it turns a 500-odd page novel into an excruciatingly boring chronicle of the details of feasts and battles without ever demanding that the characters develop or display any motivation for their actions beyond the obvious.<br />Read this book if you're looking for something long that never explores much of anything with depth or orginal insight.  Otherwise giveit a miss -- unless you're looking for a cure for insomnia.	2002-08-25
US	45881099	R29IZR5GH6OX51	0553580515	417245650	Passage	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Haunting and affecting	Connie Willis is one of those authors who write books that you just can't stop thinking about when they're over, and _Passage_ is no exception to the rule.  I couldn't put it down while I was reading it, and now, although I finished it several days ago, it still haunts me.<br />_Passage_ is not an easy novel in terms of subject matter.  It's about death and its characters are people who live with death on a day to day basis, both the death of the body and the death of the soul:  hospital workers, critically ill patients, Alzheimers sufferers and their caretakers.  The two main characters are involved in a research project to study Near Death Experiences.  They hope to find that the NDE is some sort of survival mechanism and that by unlocking its mysteries they will be able to come up with a treatment to bring back people who have \\"coded\\" -- that is, experienced the cessation of circulatory and respiratory function -- in the four to six minutes before brain death occurs.  What they find is by turns intriguing, fascinating, humourous and terrifying.<br />Some writers use character as a vehicle to point out their stands on social, political or moral issues.  Willis tends to do just the opposite:  for her the issues and plot serve to elucidate character and that is part of what makes her work so absorbing and readable.  It is impossible not to believe that her characters are real people and care about them, from the likable ones right down to the truly obnoxious.  The diversity and reality of the characters acts in huge part to make her stories very, very real.  Although I knew I was reading fiction I was completely able to believe it.<br />Though not as outright funny as some of her other work, _Passage_ does present the absurdity of life as well as its more serious aspects.  There were few, if any, belly laughs, but there were numerous \\"groaners,\\" where you though, \\"Yep, I can totally get that -- ain't life that way.\\"  This served to lighten what was at times an almost overwhelming read.<br />Among other things, _Passage_ is a book about symbol and metaphor;  unlocking the underlying metaphor of the NDE is central to the plot.  Even the setting -- a hospital with such a complex map that getting from one floor to the next becomes an adventure into the unknown -- is a metaphor for the whole, and Willis carries it off with great skill.<br />People who like obvious plots and simple stories may not like this book.  But for a novel with lots of twists and turns and a story that unfolds bit by bit to its disturbing cinclusion, _Passage_ can't be beaten.t overwhelming read.<br />Among other things, _Passage_ is a book about symbol and metaphor;  unlocking the underlying metaphor of the NDE is central to the plot.  Even the setting -- a hospital with such a complex map that getting from one floor to the next becomes an adventure into the unknown -- is a metaphor for the whole, and Willis carries it off with great skill.<br />People who like obvious plots and simple stories may not like this book.  But for a novel with lots of twists and turns and a story that unfolds bit by bit to its disturbing cinclusion, _Passage_ can't be beaten.	2002-06-28
US	45881099	RVE5MIDRHDYLZ	0609610597	723611342	The Shelters of Stone (Earth's Children, Book 5)	Books	2	14	14	N	N	Repetitious and Dull	The \\"Earth's Children\\" (tm) series has been a guilty pleasure with me since its inception, so I was glad to see that Jean M. Auel was going to continue it after so long a hiatus.  Unfortunately the latest volume is a disappointment -- hardly worth waiting 12 years for.  The one good thing I can say about it is that Ms. Auel had done her research, but as far as story goes, there isn't one.  The first 500 pages read like a travelogue, with extended descriptions of the geography and other aspects of the setting.  The only action is umpteen scenes of Ayla demonstrating her firestones, or Jondalar demonstrating his spear thrower, or one or the other of them relating the adventures from previous books.  I was thankful for a little of this as I had not read the former volumes for a couple of years, but it went on far too long.  Most of the new characters were charming and bland;  the antagonists were mean and bland and incredibly under-used.  There is little sense of conflict and none whatever of a cohesive plot.  Things get a little more interesting in the last third of the novel -- at least I didn't find myself blipping over large portions of it in a vain search for something interesting, as I did for the first two thirds -- but events still seemed random and pointless.  _Shelters of Stone_ may be accurate in its depiction of a year in the life of Cro Magnon woman, but it doesn't offer anything that makes an absorbing story.  It rather seemed like a chunk of material that had to be gotten out of the way before the next installment.  Why that chunk had to go on and on for over 700 pages is unclear to me.  If you haven't read this one yet, don't waste your time; there's nothing necessary here to the next book.  If you feel you must read it, get it out of the library.	2002-06-08
US	45881099	R20P0GES8JA1KK	0380979055	431563792	The Visitor	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of Tepper's Strongest	One thousand years from now -- give or take -- the Earth and her population is recovering from a 21st century asteroid impact that wiped out a good deal of life forms and introduced some things hitherto unknown.  Humanity survives in a number of independent city-states, each with its own particular values.  One of these is Bastion, settled by religious fundamentalist survivors of the strike.  In Bastion, the inhabitants' lives are bound up by dehumanizing rules and dogmas.  The main occupation is the search for \\"the Art,\\" real magic that, as an article of faith, existed before the asteroid strike wiped everything out and will be rediscovered some day.  Unfortunately, the search for true magic is so bound in rules, regulations, and dogmas that when it does appear, it is immediately destroyed. Born in Bastion, Disme' Latimer is an odd changeling who neither understands nor subscribes to the dogmas surrounding her.  In the process of escaping from her abusive step-sister, she discovers that she is not alone in her feelings and that, in fact, her personal struggles and those of her friends are part of something very much greater than any of them.<br />To readers familiar with Tepper's work, _The Visitor_ reads something like a cross between _Raising the Stones_ and _A Plague of Angels_, although the tone is both more serious and less angry than that of either of the previous novels.  There is not a lot of humour to leaven the message, yet the simple, matter of fact way that even horror is presented only makes it that much stronger.  Tepper does not try to sway the reader to her point of view;  she merely states her case and leaves you to make up your own mind.<br />Like many of her previous books, _The Visitor_ is concerned with the nature of god and the nature of evil.  Unlike some writers, however, Tepper makes it plain that in her view true evil does, in fact, exist and is so seductive that even well-meaning people can fall prey to it.  The way to combat it, according to Tepper, is to learn to think objectively, without falling prey to any dogma or \\"ism,\\" even those that seem, to outward apperances, benign.  One of the ways she shows this is by extrapolating various dogmas to their farthest, and sometimes frightening, conclusions and then basing societies upon those conclusions.  Her findings at times stike one as fantastic, but they are nearly always horribly probable.<br />Although Tepper's worlds may contain almost Utopian societies, she mostly bases her stories in places with serious problems;  thus the task of her characters is to overcome those problems.  Her vision of the future at times seems bleak, but invariably she holds out hope that things will get better.  She does not, however, offer any simplistic solutions for betterment.  This may be troubling for readers who like everything to be wrapped up in a nice, neat package with clear instructions as to what's right and what's wrong.<br />_The Visitor_ is a book that every thinking person should read.g to Tepper, is to learn to think objectively, without falling prey to any dogma or \\"ism,\\" even those that seem, to outward apperances, benign.  One of the ways she shows this is by extrapolating various dogmas to their farthest, and sometimes frightening, conclusions and then basing societies upon those conclusions.  Her findings at times stike one as fantastic, but they are nearly always horribly probable.<br />Although Tepper's worlds may contain almost Utopian societies, she mostly bases her stories in places with serious problems;  thus the task of her characters is to overcome those problems.  Her vision of the future at times seems bleak, but invariably she holds out hope that things will get better.  She does not, however, offer any simplistic solutions for betterment.  This may be troubling for readers who like everything to be wrapped up in a nice, neat package with clear instructions as to what's right and what's wrong.<br />_The Visitor_ is a book that every thinking person should read.	2002-05-29
US	45881099	R1UBBWVVOID0DT	0312857977	338158170	Cat in a Midnight Choir: A Midnight Louie Mystery	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Acceptable, not stunning	With this fourteenth addition to its ranks, the Midnight Louie series continues to do what it has been doing since about book five:  chug along reliably through the soap opera that is the major characters' lives, providing a mixture of cat's-eye-view detection, human foibles, and trendy pop psychology to make an amusing afternoon's read.  By this point the ongoing saga far overrides any individual book's plot, so if you haven't read any of the series I wouldn't recommend starting here;  there's just too much backstory to catch up on.  _Cat in a Midnight Choir_ is very obviously a single chapter in what is essentially a serial melodrama.  It doesn't stand alone.<br />Followers of Midnight Louie and Co.'s exploits will be relieved to know that one significant plot thread is resolved here, so there is a sense of resolution that has been missing from the series since the letter &quot;J&quot; or so.  But we're only halfway through, so don't go looking for any of the really major mysteries to be resolved.  If you're impatient to know the whole truth, &quot;Midnight Choir&quot; may only make you more so.  I, for one, am also getting a little tired of certain characters' attitudes.  Much of the plot seems to hinge upon characters' not communicating and then justifying the lack of communication to themselves somehow.  I find this irritating.<br />Also on the negative side, the non-human cast of characters has grown to a degree that makes it hard even for this reader to suspend her disbelief at key moments.  The denoument of &quot;Midnight Choir,&quot; far from being thrilling, had me laughing at the excess of feline presence.  I rather don't think this is quite what the author intended.<br />On the plus side, Douglas once again serves up a detailed view of Las Vegas and its unique character, sprinkled with people who are genuinely complex and human.  I liked &quot;Midnight Choir&quot; far better than _Cat in a Leopard Spot_ (the last installment), but not quite as well as some of the more self-contained, earlier volumes.  Fans will want to read this one.me of the more self-contained, earlier volumes.  Fans will want to read this one.	2002-05-23
US	45881099	R3F6GERVHZ3E73	0812533410	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Tor Classics)	Books	1	25	48	N	N	Whatta Waste of Time!	This story sounds like it should be a real thriller: a young governess is given charge of two children at a remote manor house where she proceeds to see ghosts. She believes the ghosts have evil intent towards the children and puts herself to protect her charges, only to come to suspect that the children are well aware of what is going on and welcome it.<br />What's the problem with this? Well, in the first place, it's just dull. If you've read my summary, you can dispense with the book because literally nothing else happens. Apart from a few ghost sightings, there are no events in this book. Now maybe ghost sightings themselves were enough to give a shiver at the time TOTS was written, but in the age of Stephen King and Clive Barker, mere apparitions just aren't much of a challenge. Although there are allegedly evil doings afoot at Bly, the only reason anyone should suspect such a thing is because the narrator says it's so. According to literary crititcs, this gives TOTS a \\"delicious ambiguity.\\" Amibguous it might be; delicious it certainly is not.<br />The characters are flat -- in fact they are all but caricatures. In fact, the book relies on the reader's having an understanding of and sharing the social assumptions of the time it was written to have any kind of effect. Children are by nature innocent; servants are by nature inferior, and that sort of rubbish. If you buy that, you can buy that Miss Jessup was evil simply because she associated with someone beneath her and that Quint was evil because he \\"gave himself airs,\\" but I don't buy it at all. I really like authors to support such sweeping statements and I didn't see James making any effort to do so.<br />Another thing I find tiring about James is that he never uses one word to say something when ten will do. There were whole chapters in TOTS that could have been admirably summed up by the narrator's stating that she just didn't know what was the right thing to do next, and a great many passages that were so convoluted in terms of language that it took rereading them several times to even get a sense of the point.<br />Reading _Turn of the Screw_ made it easy to understand why Henry James's novels so quickly fell out of fashion and why he never made it as a playwrite. Some lovely movies have been made from his work, but they rely heavily on the actors' ability to convey character in a way that he never does. If you're looking for a real classic chiller, read Shirley Jackson's _The Haunting of Hill House_, or even _Jane Eyre_. _Turn of the Screw_ is a boring waste of time.o convoluted in terms of language that it took rereading them several times to even get a sense of the point.<br />Reading _Turn of the Screw_ made it easy to understand why Henry James's novels so quickly fell out of fashion and why he never made it as a playwrite. Some lovely movies have been made from his work, but they rely heavily on the actors' ability to convey character in a way that he never does. If you're looking for a real classic chiller, read Shirley Jackson's _The Haunting of Hill House_, or even _Jane Eyre_. _Turn of the Screw_ is a boring waste of time.	2002-04-04
US	45881099	R3016R4YZFC5DV	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Formula that Works, mostly	A lot of Michael Crichton's books follow a recognisable formula:  Take a real cutting edge technology and stretch just enough so that it becomes fictional without losing plausibility.  Add an obsessive corporate head who values profits and progress over people.  Mix in a handful of academic professionals of varying specialitites.  Place in a dangerous situation, garnish with detail, and serve.<br />In _Timeline_ the formula results in a book that is fast-paced and very readable, offering a blend of science, history and action that is visually stimulating and intellectually interesting.  Hard science fiction buffs will like the detailed explanation of the theory and technology behind time &quot;travel,&quot; while those geared more towards historical fiction will find a wealth of detail about the 14th century.<br />My main criticism of _Timeline_ is that the characters are somewhat two-dimensional.  The bad guys are strictly that, without any redeeming or sympathetic qualities, whereas the good guys seem to be characterised mainly by their abilities.  This makes the action fairly predictable, e.g., the rock-climbing architect invariably spends a lot of time scaling castle walls and the expert in medieval armament gets in a lot of sword fights, etc.  There is also not a whole lot of subtlety or intrigue;  action is the name of the game.  Sometimes I did not exactly find this plausible.  Granted the 14th century was a dangerous time, but I often wondered at the readiness of the natives, as it were, to strike first and leave questions out of it entirely.<br />A few plot elements were left hanging and a few characters who you think will play major parts simply disappear, never to be heard from again.  Still and all, this is an entertaining book that is hard to put down once you've started.	2002-04-04
US	45881099	R3JRCOHA2GC2AQ	0553107445	940167612	Catch as Cat Can	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Not up to the usual standard	I'm a huge fan of the Mrs. Murphy series;  they're my favourites of all the cat/crime genre.  Unfortunately, the latest volume doesn't come up to the standard set forth in the series so far.  It reads like a rough draft turned in under a deadline.  While the actual premise is interesting enough, it's both unoriginal and so far-fetched that it's hard for this ordinary person to care about it.  The writing is wooden and stilted, more a recitation of events than a good story.  The new characters are lifeless -- not even a budding romance has any real zing -- and the old characters are predictable.  Nothing new is happening in the town of Crozet;  let's eat some orange glazed cinnamon buns.  Even the animals can't really save this one;  they talk a lot but don't really contribute much.  A fan of the series will want to read _Catch as Cat Can_, but get it out of the library.	2002-03-27
US	45881099	R3KT0GPAVBAUVT	031215125X	492397589	The Far Pavilions	Books	4	70	73	N	N	A Sweeping Tapestry	_The Far Pavilions_ is a sweeping tapestry of a novel encompassing numerous characters and situations set against the cultural clash of British India.  The clash of cultures is embodied in the main character, Ashton Pelham-Martyn.  Born in India and raised by a Hindu woman after the death of his parents, he later learns that he is actually English.  He's sent to his father's family in England to be brought up \\"properly\\" and returns to India as an officer in the military, but soon discovers that his early experiences have made it impossible for him to be truly English, just as his English training has made it impossible for him to be truly anything else.  Along the way he meets and falls in love with the half-caste Hindu princess, Anjuli, another whose mixed birth causes her much tribulation and pain in a land rife with bigotry from all sides and built on traditions that make it all but impossible for people of different cultures to meet and accept one another in purely human terms.<br />M. M Kaye does a magnificent job depicting the various cultures and systems of thought prevalent in India and the surrounding areas at the time.  For the most part she does so without giving any value judgement, but she is not timid about pointing out that every culture has its fanatics and that these can cause many problems for the bulk of the population who just want to live their lives in peace.  She also excellently conveys the inherent sadness of a situation where caste laws and religious differences come between people who otherwise love one another.  By placing her protagonist squarely between two dominant cultures, she illustrates the loneliness of a person who cannot see things in terms of black or white, or adhere to an ill-advised policy merely because it is advanced by people of the same race and beliefs.<br />_The Far Pavilions_ is really two books in one.  First it is the story of Ash and Juli; second it is the story of British military policy in India and Afghanistan, culminating in the Second Afghan War and the disastrous attempt to establish a British Mission in Kabul.  Where the book fell flat for me was in the last two or three hundred pages, where the second story took so much precedence over the first that it seemed to belong in another novel all together and the main characters were virtually lost in the uproar.  While the events in Afghanistan were necessary to Ash's making his ultimate decision about how he wanted to live his life and thus had to be presented in some detail, I still experienced the whole section as something of a let down.  For me, it was not as gripping as earlier parts of the book, despite the events.  I also found the ending itself a little disappointing;  I would have liked it to have gone farther, as it seemed to me that Ash and Juli's story was just left dangling.<br />This is not a \\"Happy-Ever-After\\" kind of story, so if that's what you're looking for you might be disappointed.  It is, however, a marvelous depiction of a fascinating piece of history.  If you like historical novels, you can't do much better.culminating in the Second Afghan War and the disastrous attempt to establish a British Mission in Kabul.  Where the book fell flat for me was in the last two or three hundred pages, where the second story took so much precedence over the first that it seemed to belong in another novel all together and the main characters were virtually lost in the uproar.  While the events in Afghanistan were necessary to Ash's making his ultimate decision about how he wanted to live his life and thus had to be presented in some detail, I still experienced the whole section as something of a let down.  For me, it was not as gripping as earlier parts of the book, despite the events.  I also found the ending itself a little disappointing;  I would have liked it to have gone farther, as it seemed to me that Ash and Juli's story was just left dangling.<br />This is not a \\"Happy-Ever-After\\" kind of story, so if that's what you're looking for you might be disappointed.  It is, however, a marvelous depiction of a fascinating piece of history.  If you like historical novels, you can't do much better.	2002-03-26
US	45881099	R5OLWA0M90L2	0966161602	450147013	Edly's Music Theory for Practical People, 2nd Edition	Books	5	79	83	N	N	The best book on music theory ever	I was one of those professional musicians -- and there are a lot of us out there! -- who didn't know very much about music theory.  Music theory's for college cats, dig?  Then I started giving lessons, and I figured I'd better know what I was talking about.  So I bought this book.  Edly makes music theory charming, funny, and interesting with a combination of explanation, practical example, and humour.  Believe it or not, this book is hard to put down once you get going.  For me, much of the book was a revelation of &quot;Oh, so that's what I've been doing!&quot; than any new information, but it's great to be able to understand and talk about music on a deeper level.  The book is geared towards jazz and blues players, but the information is easily adapted to any genre.  A must for anyone, from beginner to  professional, who wants to deepen his understanding of western music!	2002-03-25
US	45881099	R1OJK15I71D274	0812516826	583593580	Catnap: A Midnight Louie Mystery (Midnight Louie Mysteries)	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Another Cute Book from Carole Nelson Douglas	Everything I've read by Carole Nelson Douglas has been both kind of sweet and not particularly original -- the kind of book that leaves you thinking, \\"Well, that was cute.\\" This can either be marginally appealing, as in her Irene Adler series, or downright annoying, as in her attempts at high fantasy. _Catnap_ falls into the first category, as the author jumps on the feline sleuth bandwagon.<br />For those interested in the combination of cats and crime, I place the maunderings of Midnight Louie solidly between the interminable \\"Cat Who...\\" series and the delightful adventures of Mrs. Murphy. Louie plays a marginally more active role in crime solving than the Siamese Pair of the former, but is not quite so involved as the latter. Like Mrs. Murphy, he has a perky female associate to do the actual work of putting together clues and bringing them to the attention of the proper authorities. Unlike Mrs. Murphy, Louie seems a great deal more interested in self-agrandizement than in true crime solving. There is less of an emphasis on the legendary feline curiosity than there is on the equally legendary feline ego.<br />The setting is interesting as it gives a kind of perspective on Las Vegas as an alien culture. The supporting characters and subplots are derivative, and I thought the grand \\"revelation of the crime\\" scene, where the case was presented to all the suspects gathered in one room, was super unrealistic and annoying. Still, _Catnap_ kept me occupied on a grey afternoon when I couldn't think of anything better to do. If you don't go into it with very many expectations, you won't be disappointed.<br />As a series, the Midnight Louie books are standard for the genre and many are much more interesting and original than the first volume.  The ongoing supporting cast is appealing, and the series-spanning subplots hooked me into reading past the first two books.  Though the crimes and motives are fairly stock, some of the settings are quite original -- I especially liked the book set at a strippers' convention (_Pussyfoot_) and the one set at a Romance Novel convention (_Cat in a Diamond Dazzle).  The series could use help from a continuity editor, however.  In one book, a major event is stated to have happened both in 1969 and 1959;  in others it seems that the author can't remember where one early crime happened, but sets it in this Vegas hotel or that as the whim takes her.  Also, there are long sections dealing with the characters' \\"personal growth\\" that seem more like something from a psychology or self-help text than real conversations between people. And the characters have an annoying incapacity to use common contractions like \\"don't\\" or \\"won't,\\"  which makes much of the dialog seem stilted and unreal.<br />If you like gimick mysteries with a lot of fluff and not much suspense, you could do worse than the Midnight Louie books.  Agatha Christie or Dorothy Sayers they're not, but they're still amusing.d the book set at a strippers' convention (_Pussyfoot_) and the one set at a Romance Novel convention (_Cat in a Diamond Dazzle).  The series could use help from a continuity editor, however.  In one book, a major event is stated to have happened both in 1969 and 1959;  in others it seems that the author can't remember where one early crime happened, but sets it in this Vegas hotel or that as the whim takes her.  Also, there are long sections dealing with the characters' \\"personal growth\\" that seem more like something from a psychology or self-help text than real conversations between people. And the characters have an annoying incapacity to use common contractions like \\"don't\\" or \\"won't,\\"  which makes much of the dialog seem stilted and unreal.<br />If you like gimick mysteries with a lot of fluff and not much suspense, you could do worse than the Midnight Louie books.  Agatha Christie or Dorothy Sayers they're not, but they're still amusing.	2002-02-15
US	45881099	R211X4A927T9J4	0553213296	427012340	The Last of the Mohicans (Bantam Classics)	Books	2	1	7	N	N	Dated and over-rated	I had a really hard time with this \\"classic\\" of American literature, but then, I've never been really thrilled with early 19th century American writers.  The style of the period is over-wordy by today's standards, with a great deal of what is essentially sermonizing both on the part of the author and the characters and very little real dialogue or character development.  I'm a person who can generally consume any 400 page novel in a day or so, but I found I could not read more than about a chapter of LOTM at a time, and my attention wandered a lot.<br />The story by itself it a pretty good one, dealing with the middle part of the French and Indian War.  There is a great deal of fighting, striving with the wilderness, being exposed to alien cultures, and a dash of romance thrown in for good measure.  Unfortunately, the story suffers from the over-abundance of words.  Every encounter is melodramatized to the point of boredom, and the actual events get lost.  Hawkeye, that redoubtable woodsman, never shuts up, and after a while everything he says is the same.  Likewise for the other characters.  There isn't any growth or development.<br />I became increasingly offended by the portrayal of the Indians, both hostile and friendly, as either noble savages or just savages, obviously inferior to the white man.  I also became increasingly offended with the portrayal of the two women, both of whom represented stereotypes of femininity popular at the time.  I realise that Cooper was writing at a time when it was not much the practice to see value in native cultures and the memory, if not the actual experience, of the real violence between the American aborigines and the European immigrants was still close to the surface, but that didn't keep me from being disgusted at his overbearing and superior attitude.<br />I'm glad I read this book, because it is held a classic.  But that's the only thing that kept me going.	2002-02-13
US	45881099	R2KLO2RFXGT7Z7	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Even Better the Second Time	I recently read _Neverwhere_ for the 2nd time and I liked it even better than I did the first.  The story is fairly simple with a common device:  a \\"normal\\" protagonist gets sucked into decidedly \\"abnormal\\" circumstances.  In this case, the abnormal circumstance is an alternate London known as the Underside.<br />I found the existence of the Underside completely believable and an insightful comment on a society that most often ignores unpleasantness, or perceived unpleasantness, that it doesn't want to acknowledge, as well as the numerous persons who do not fit the accepted societal norm.  Richard Mayhew's journey is both through an unknown physical realm and one of self-discovery.  This is most evident in a powerful scene where he undergoes an ordeal that forces him to see how society views the denizens of the Underside - when society sees them at all -- while struggling to retain a true sense of self and purpose.  After this ordeal, he is inevitably changed, as all people are changed when their narrow view of reality is challenged.<br />Gaiman is a master of alternate reality, pun, and dream language, and he makes full use of it here.  The Underside is loosely associated with the London Underground system, but in this hidden realm station names are no mere arbitrary designations.  There are really Friars and Blackfriars and an Earl does hold sway over Earl's Court.  This makes for both humour and an awful kind of suspense.  I wouldn't call _Neverwhere_ true horror, except inasmuch as accepting a wider view of reality, with all its terrors as well as its wonders, can be horrible as well as exhilerating.  _Neverwhere_ can be an uncomfortable book and I don't think it would appeal to anyone who values comfort above thought.<br />AS always, Gaiman's writing is beautiful and concise.  HE is very matter of fact about the more gruesome bits, but that makes them all the more chilling.  He does not judge, he merely presents and lets actions speak for themselves.  I  find this admirable and affecting.  When he does feel the need to make a particular point, he does it very subtly.  One of my favourite examples of this occurs when the main characters are passing by a river.  Gaiman says, \\"This was not the kind of river you could fall into and get out of again.  It was the other kind.\\"  We all know what that means, or can imagine it.  There's no need to go into it further.<br />Occasionally character does come second to atmosphere.  We do not get much of a glimpse into the minds of the people who inhabit London Below, but it's not really an issue.  For them, this is just the world.  It is Richard, in his transitional state, who is able to make comparisons and suffer regrets.  I think it shows incredible sensitivity on Gaiman's part to be able to point out that, however odd something may be, for someone, for the people who live that life, it's just normal.  It's the outsiders who question and judge.<br />I enjoyed this book immensely and recommend it highly.his admirable and affecting.  When he does feel the need to make a particular point, he does it very subtly.  One of my favourite examples of this occurs when the main characters are passing by a river.  Gaiman says, \\"This was not the kind of river you could fall into and get out of again.  It was the other kind.\\"  We all know what that means, or can imagine it.  There's no need to go into it further.<br />Occasionally character does come second to atmosphere.  We do not get much of a glimpse into the minds of the people who inhabit London Below, but it's not really an issue.  For them, this is just the world.  It is Richard, in his transitional state, who is able to make comparisons and suffer regrets.  I think it shows incredible sensitivity on Gaiman's part to be able to point out that, however odd something may be, for someone, for the people who live that life, it's just normal.  It's the outsiders who question and judge.<br />I enjoyed this book immensely and recommend it highly.	2002-02-08
US	45881099	R17WDMKE93OPHK	0812514300	681994924	Good Night, Mr. Holmes: An Irene Adler Novel	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Cute, in a good way.	In my humble opinion, the only person who has any business writing Sherlock Holmes stories is Nicholas Meyer, because he's the only person I've read who really grasps the characters and their interactions.  That being said, Carole Nelson Douglas comes a close second  Like Meyers, she knows her Victoriana and is well able to add to the reality of her story by weaving in real life characters.  She is familiar with Holmes and his methods;  the parts of the story where he appears ring true.<br />It's very interesting indeed to see this particular story from the canon (\\"A Scandal In Bohemia\\") presented from another point of view.  The original always hinted that things were not quite as the King of Bohemia would present them, and I find Douglas's take very believable.  However, I thought it was a little lame to turn Irene Adler into a kind of female Holmes, complete with upstanding sidekick.  As a device it just struck me as ... unoriginal.<br />Accepting the device, the story is well-written, the characters believable and the plot engaging.  I would not, however, recommend this book to anyone but an avid Sherlockian.  The main thing that makes it interesting is that it is an addition to Sherlockian lore.  There are just too many inside references to make it acessible to the population at large.  And the whole point of the story is that Irene gets the upper hand of Sherlock, so if you don't care about Sherlock Holmes you certainly won't give a fig for this book.	2002-01-30
US	45881099	R38PYCWMES1FYJ	156718457X	278615715	The Sacred Circle Tarot: A Celtic Pagan Journey	Books	4	42	44	N	Y	A mixed bag, not for beginners	The Sacred Circle tarot is a lovely deck with beautiful, rich colours and a decidedly British Neo-Pagan slant.  I would not recommend it for beginners, either beginning Tarot readers or those just starting on a Pagan path.<br />Five stars for the Major Arcana!  There has been some re-ordering with which I do not necessarily agree, and some of the image substitution is difficult to integrate, but generally these cards are easy to understand and welcoming as well as beautiful.  Easy to understand, that is, if you've been a practicing pagan for a while and have a good grounding in the underlying mythology.  Oherwise you might have trouble.<br />The minor arcana is not so well done.  Although they purport to show full images, many of the numbered suit cards are little better than pip cards and very hard to read.  There are little one-word definitions on each card, but I find this annoying rather than helpful.  There are inconsistencies in the imagery -- e.g., wands might appear as spears or arrows or wands depending on the card.  Sometmes this is explained in the book, but I'm a firm believer in internal card logic, so I found the necessity of explanation irritating.<br />Throughout the deck the imagery and symbology is extremely personal to the makers.  In most cases their actualy interpretations haven't changed so, once again, an experienced reader will be able to get it fairly easily but a beginner may not get the connections.  There are also places where the main symbol of the card is either practically invisible or pretty much unintelligible without recourse to the book.  This is something I really don't like.  You can read these cards intuitively, but it takes some doing.<br />The book is a thick one and it gives detailed descriptions of every card, as well as an overview of the fool's journey and several new spreads you might want to try.<br />I probably would not have bought these cards if I had been able to examine a full deck in advance, but they are turning out to be quite popular with clients.  Readings with them so far have stressed personal responsibility and introspection rather than outward action, and they tend to have a gentler feel than readings with some other decks.  This is a good addition to a Pagan reader's toolkit -- not a starting point, but a deck with which to explore a particular focus more deeply.ut to be quite popular with clients.  Readings with them so far have stressed personal responsibility and introspection rather than outward action, and they tend to have a gentler feel than readings with some other decks.  This is a good addition to a Pagan reader's toolkit -- not a starting point, but a deck with which to explore a particular focus more deeply.	2001-12-02
US	45881099	R3RAZPBGO63UHG	0439249546	667539744	Harry Potter (4 Volumes set)	Books	5	52	59	N	N	These books have it all	I've just fininshed reading the first 4 Harry Potter books for about the 5th time through, and they're just as magical and affecting as they have ever been.  Everything is in here:  suspense, adventure, mystery, humour, danger. There's even some pretty satisfying paybacks. The characters are fantastic and fantastically realistic.  There are bad people who turn out to be good guys and good people who turn out to be bad guys, just like life.<br />I think the thing I like best about these books is the message that it's okay to be different -  to be not &quot;normal.&quot;  I would very much have liked to have heard that message when I was Harry's age and in a stiff, prep school environment.<br />These book value real thought.  Much has been made of Harry's rule breaking, but only once in the series so far does he break a rule for arbitrary personal gain.  Most of the time he makes a decision that what's right is more important than what's written. And you know what?  Life's like that sometimes.  I think it's great that kids are getting an example of how to do what's right even when it involves breaking rules.  The Potter books also show that there are consequences for rule breaking.  If not getting caught and getting a detention, then a spell going wrong and someone getting turned into a cat.  This shows that when you make a decision to go against the rules that things may not go as you expected and you have to take responsibility for the outcome.<br />Rowling's done a great job with these books!  Long may she continue.	2001-11-30
US	45881099	R2339HMII3LBX4	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Transitional	I enjoyed _The Fiery Cross_.  It is not as driving or as cohesive as the previous Outlander books, but it is worth reading, particularly if you are a fan of the series and plan to continue with it.<br />If you are looking for _The Fiery Cross_ to be one epic story, as are the first three books, you will be disappointed. Essentially, the current volume is a series of novellas about the people of Fraser's Ridge, which serves to bridge, or begin to bridge, the gap between _The Drums of Autumn_ and the Revolutionary War.  There are several throughlines, but they are quite minor and disappear for hundreds of pages at a time.  Some of the incidents dealt with are what I would call relevant;  some seem to be thrown in there simply to fill up time and space.  All are interesting, though.  Several loose ends from previous books are tied up.  Several more are untied.  One or two new characters are introduced, but mainly these are the stories of people the reader has come to know and love already.  You really need this attachment to character to keep you going through the slow bits, so I wouldn't recommend anyone's starting the series here.  Some of the slow bits -- especially the first 200 oages -- are VERY slow, indeed.<br />As always, Gabaldon's writing is gorgeous and lush and her historical research is impeccable.  She really has a talent for uncovering little known facts and weaving them into her story, and she has a flair for depicting the day to day like of a frontier homestead that makes it real.<br />I actually liked this book better than _The Drums of Autumn_, though not as well as any of the first three.  Though it isn't particularly exciting, _The Fiery Cross_ is a good transitional piece and does a fine job of setting up the next chapter -- which I hope we'll see sooner than four years from now!	2001-11-25
US	45881099	R3R595O4BWLQ0K	0151006849	645828812	The Other Wind (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 6)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Reinventing Earthsea	I first read the original Earthsea Trilogy more than 20 years ago, and it has always been one of my favourites.  I like the more recent Earthsea books just as well, for different reasons and some of the same.<br />The recent additions to the Earthsea cannon are geared more towards adults, less towards the younger set.  While the original trilogy does deal in some complex issues and themes -- e.g., the idea of equilibrium and facing the inner shadow -- they are essentially adventure tales.  There is less action in the newer books, but more interaction.  Adult relationships, those between men and women, those between parents and children among others, come forward.  This new focus drives the story, for it forces LeGuin to examine some things about Earthsea that she had heretofore been able to ignore.<br />It takes a lot of courage for a writer to remake a world that has existed in a particular form for so many years, and it might be challenging to read the result.  I was myself thrown at having my conceptions about Earthsea turned on their head, at the same time as I was delighted by the work.<br />As always, I was thrilled with LeGuin's writing.  Like the rest of the Earthsea books, _The Other Wind_ is short.  LeGuin is not a writer who spends a great deal of time on description;  rather, she paints worlds and characters in a few deft stokes.  A paragraph from her says as much as a chapter from another writer.  I would have liked the book to have lasted longer, but it was not unfinished or imcomplete.<br />The ending brought tears to my eyes.  In fact, _The Other Wind_ is a sorrowful book altogether.  It deals with endings and partings, and irrevokable changes and choices.  It struck me that these are not unusual things for a writer in her 70's to be thinking about, and I thank LeGuin for putting them forward in her usual elegant and thoughtful style.	2001-11-21
US	45881099	R2HDR4N3BDD34W	0880794968	753663889	Universal Waite Tarot Deck	Books	5	210	211	N	N	Softer colours, not so harsh	I've read for nearly 30 years and I've never liked the original Rider Waite deck. To me reading them was like trying to absorb road directions from an incoherent person who was hitting you over the head with a board -- the information got lost in the unpleasantness of the experience. I did not like the way the figures were outlined in black, the colours looked too primary and unrealistic and I found the human figures devoid of personality.<br />I find the Universal Waite deck truly beautiful. The colours are softer and more natural; the outlines are gone or considerably toned down, giving the deck a more human feel. The characters actually have expressions. For the first time I have been able to look at the cards to notice certain details, like the fact that the chained woman in The Devil has a bunch of grapes for a tail, or that the Magician is wearing a snake for a belt. Reading with this deck is a pleasure; the cards really let you in.<br />I've heard a number of people complain that Hanson-Roberts changed details in the original deck and that that ruined it for them. I guess I see it more as, Hanson-Roberts' focus was different and it's a focus I prefer. I think she did a service to a deck that (in my experience) was becoming far less popular with new readers, due to the amazing number and variety of decks that are now available.<br />If the original Rider Waite deck works for you, you will probably have some difficulties with the Universal Waite. If it doesn't, but you would like to add a more traditional deck to your toolkit, the Universal Waite may be the deck you're looking for.	2001-11-20
US	45881099	R34X6A1ZNQDLAH	0850308437	690612554	The Arthurian Tarot	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	For the Serious Worker	This has been my main deck for the last ten years or so.  The artwork is immensely detailed and stunning, and the scholarship is unrivaled.  Whereas some recent decks leave out a lot of the ceremonial magick symbolism and replace it with nothing, the Matthews have developed an entirely new symbolism, just as rich and detailed, based on Arthurian legend.  Every single card portrays a scene you can sink into, and in every viewing you notice something different.<br />The Arthurian Tarot might prove challenging in that a number of the Major Arcana have been substantially changed to fit the underlying mythology.  The Chariot, for example, has become Prydwen (King Arthur's ship) and The Hanged Man has become the Wounded King.  This is apt to pose difficulties for someone with a little experience;  a new reader won't get the differences and an experienced reader probably won't care.<br />This is not a &quot;pretty&quot; deck.  The colours are striking rather than soothing and the many of the images are unusually violent.  This is a deck for people who are serious about facing themselves and committing to action.  I would not recommend it if you think Tarot is a game or if you think it's not really going to change you.<br />Arthurian legend has become increasingly popular in recent years and now there are a number of decks of this theme available.  The Matthews' deck is the first and remains the best.	2001-11-19
US	45881099	R37J0LX36E7E4M	0312050798	152680021	The Enchanted Tarot	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Pretty, non-threatening, some difficulties	I've read with this deck since it came out about ten years ago. I usually let clients pick which of three or four decks speaks to them, and the enchanted is a favourite of people who have not had a reading done before. It also seems to reassure people who are a little afraid what the cards might tell them.<br />The Enchanted Tarot is a beautiful deck with lots of soft coordinating colours and rich fairy tale and Arabian Nights imagery. Because the face designs are constructed from fabric collage or even quilting in some cases, this deck has a depth and sense of texture than many do not achieve. This deck is quite sturdy with unusually thick and heavy cardstock. Cards from other decks I have read with over long periods of time have literally worn out and ripped in half; this is not a danger here.<br />As in so many cases, the beauties of this deck contain its flaws. I find some of the fabric collage designs -- particularly of the Major Arcana -- to be unnecessarily cluttered. Sometimes this makes it dificult to get into the card and hear what it has to say. The designs of the Major Arcana are also bordered in a way that makes the main images quite small. Much of the traditional symbolic detail is absent in favour of one main figure, for example, a skeleton for Death and a large, round doily for the Wheel. I find this makes the readings in which these cards appear lacking in depth and detail. This is not always a bad thing.<br />I am not particularly fond of the substitution of hearts for the suit of cups. I don't understand why the artists did this or why they didn't substitute playing card suits for all four Minor Arcana suits. It works, though.<br />I read from the cards, not from a book.  In fact, the first thing I tell students is to throw away their books.  So I disagree with Farber/Zerner's premise of enlarging the pictures in the book so you can see the detail.  That just locks you into remembering the book, instead of looking at what's in front of you.  I think what details are relevant should be clearly visible on the cards. These cards are hard to see.<br />As I noted before the cards are very thick -- the deck is about a third again as thick as most others. The cards are also quite long and narrow. One card is almost as long as my entire hand and slightly less wide than my palm. They are extremely difficult to shuffle. People with small hands take heed. I tend to shuffle this deck in halves. Many clients simply stir them around on the table.<br />Not my favourite deck, but a possibly useful addition to a reader's toolbag.nk what details are relevant should be clearly visible on the cards. These cards are hard to see.<br />As I noted before the cards are very thick -- the deck is about a third again as thick as most others. The cards are also quite long and narrow. One card is almost as long as my entire hand and slightly less wide than my palm. They are extremely difficult to shuffle. People with small hands take heed. I tend to shuffle this deck in halves. Many clients simply stir them around on the table.<br />Not my favourite deck, but a possibly useful addition to a reader's toolbag.	2001-11-19
US	45881099	R33NUR7EZTPZ9J	0451458427	302549224	Revelation (Rai Kirah)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Mixed Feelings	I have real mixed feelings about _Revelation_.  On the one hand, it is just as beautifully written as its predecessor.  On the other, I thought it had a number of...not flaws, precisely, but there were things about it that made it less interesting to me than _Transformation._<br />The book deals mainly with Seyonne's difficulty in returning to his people and his life after sixteen years of slavery -- years which, in the eyes of Seyonne's race, make him irretrievably corrupt.  Once a certain incident proves this corruption, Seyonne once again leaves Ezzaria on a mission which eventually leads him to try to solve the mystery of his people and their origins.<br />Berg deftly portrays Seyonne's increasing frustration with the ritualistic ways of the Ezzarians, as she does his pain at being shut out of the world he loves, his confusion at finding things are not as he has always believed and his urgency in bringing about change.  IN a way, this book is more introspective than _Transformation_, dealing more with Seyonne's inner world than with his actions and experiences.  While this inner world is depicted skillfully and in immense detail, at places I found that it bogged the story down.  I had a hard time retaining interest in the chapters that took place within the demons' realm, for example.  They seemed overly slow and I wondered if spending all that time on that part of the story was strictly necessary.  It often seemed to me that the first third of the book had set up events to proceed a certain way and then those story elements were simply ignored as Seyonne went off on his inner quest.  I did not always feel the connection between the two, and the explanation that Seyonne was enchanted to forget what had gone before did not really do it for me.<br />I was extremely irritated by Aleksander's behavior in the early parts of the book.  I do not think the schism between him and Seyonne was strictly necessary to the story and the way it came about seemed contrived.  I would have thought that anyone of Aleksander's discernment and intelligence would understand that a person serving in the role of a spy might be forced to commit certain crimes in order not to blow his cover.  It amazed me that no one in the book seemed to understand this.<br />The ending seemed anti-climactic and, I thought, did not satisfactorily tie up the loose ends.  We're told the demons return to Kir'Navarrin, but not what that meant or how that affected anything.  I think perhaps this may be a topic for another book, but I would have liked to have seen a bit more resolution here.<br />However, setting these objections against the extreme beauty of the writing, the deftness of characterization and the complexity of the plot still makes Berg one of the finest writers of fantasy that I've read in a very long time.  I've come to expect a lot from her and she does not disappoint.ould have thought that anyone of Aleksander's discernment and intelligence would understand that a person serving in the role of a spy might be forced to commit certain crimes in order not to blow his cover.  It amazed me that no one in the book seemed to understand this.<br />The ending seemed anti-climactic and, I thought, did not satisfactorily tie up the loose ends.  We're told the demons return to Kir'Navarrin, but not what that meant or how that affected anything.  I think perhaps this may be a topic for another book, but I would have liked to have seen a bit more resolution here.<br />However, setting these objections against the extreme beauty of the writing, the deftness of characterization and the complexity of the plot still makes Berg one of the finest writers of fantasy that I've read in a very long time.  I've come to expect a lot from her and she does not disappoint.	2001-11-18
US	45881099	R36CV1EHMX6PMA	0451457951	402100144	Transformation (Rai Kirah)	Books	4	28	32	N	N	Well written, intricate, touching	My husband's test for fantasy novels is to first look at the front cover.  If that's relatively intersting, he readsd the blurb on the back, and if that catches his attention, he starts reading the first chapter.  If the first chapter is engaging, he buys the book.<br />I applied this test to _Transformation_.  I didn't think much of the cover art and the back cover blurb was a typical good versus evil story.  But once I started reading, I couldn't stop.<br />This book is incredibly well-written in a voice that is honest, insightful and poignant.  The narrator and main character has lived sixteen years as a slave and he gives such a harrowing depiction of his life and what it has made of him that it is impossible to believe that Berg didn't have those experiences herself.  Because of the point of view, this book reminded me quite a bit of Mary Renault's _The Persian Boy_, but I thought the inside workings of a slave's mind and how slavery changes a person were even more well-drawn.<br />Everywhere, the realism in _Transformation_ is stunning.  The characters, particularly Prince Aleksander, live and breathe in all their complexity.  It is very easy to see how the characters could come to respect and even love the Prince, despite his capricious and sometimes abusive behavior.  I know this is a hard thing to portray.  I have never seen it done better.<br />I must admit to having a slight problem with the nature of the conflict.  I'm not big on demon possession as a motivating factor , or on the idea of demons as a force for evil.  To her credit, Berg depicted the demons as a natural force that just happened to feed on pain, not as an actual evil.  But given that, it was hard to accept that this natural force would suddenly have politcal aspirations.  When Seyonne wondered why the demons were acting that way, so did I.<br />There were some slow parts about 3/4 of the way through, and a typical &quot;you thought it was over but it ain't&quot; ending that, although it tied up a couple loose ends, I found less meaningful than I would have liked.  But all in all, _Transformation_ was an exceptional read, one I'm happy to have on my shelf.tied up a couple loose ends, I found less meaningful than I would have liked.  But all in all, _Transformation_ was an exceptional read, one I'm happy to have on my shelf.	2001-11-15
US	45881099	R3KJPN948APPVS	0312867506	54983475	Destiny: Child of the Sky	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Pleasantly Surprised	Not being one of the masses who have been completely thrilled with this series from the onset, I picked up _Destiny_ (at the library) with some trepidation. Well, I must say I was pleasantly surprised. I actually would give it another half star, if such a thing were available.<br />Many of the flaws present in the first two volumes have been remedied (or grown past) here. The writing is actually pretty good and far less bombastic. There were one or two glitches where characters who had been speaking pretty much like normal human beings suddenly slipped into fantasy-speak, and I cringe at the use of the word &quot;coronate,&quot; which my dictionary defines as an adjective, not a verb, when speaking of crowning royalty -- it's one of those places where Haydon just seems to like to use big and impressive words without regard to sense. But the overall work didn't make me just want to put it down as the others did.<br />Both the previous two volumes contained long, long passages of irrelevant material. I'm glad to say that this is not the case with _Destiny_. Haydon seems to have learned to self edit a bit. She also seems to have learned to be more concise; the story moves right along without dragging its feet as the two previous volumes did.<br />The characters seem to have matured as well. Haydon's strength before has been in the supporting characters and this is true here, too; some of the people whom we have seen before are nearly ignored, but some who have not been so prevalent are dealt with very well indeed. The main characters -- especially Achmed-- are also given more scope. Rhapsody is far less annoying and throws far fewer temper tantrums, although she does spend a lot of time feeling very sorry for herself. Several of the things that she gets so upset about are things that she either brought on herself or agreed to in previous volumes and then blames on others, notably Ashe. I still couldn't help but wonder why every character was so enamoured of her, but it did seem somewhat less of a suspension of disbelief than it had.<br />There are several GLARING continuity errors -- e.g., Rhapsody wishing she could tell Achmed and Grunthor about something that she told them about two chapters previously. So if that kind of thing bothers you, prepare to be bothered.<br />I thought that the &quot;plot-line&quot; with Meridion was unnecessary and did not add anything to the story but confusion. It seemed to me that it was handled weakly, as if Haydon couldn't decide whether the point of the story was that the past was being changed or just the story. Or somehow the fact that the past was being changed was important to her, but she had trouble getting her point across. The story could stand without painting this gloss of time travel and paradox onto it.  Also, the implication that Meridion had been conceived a subjective twenty  years before his birth (not counting the time in the Root), without any supporting explanation, was too much of a challenge to my suspension of disbelief.<br />The big wedding ending was anticlimactic. It did, however, hint at possibilities for further books. I think we'll be seeing these characters again.did seem somewhat less of a suspension of disbelief than it had.<br />There are several GLARING continuity errors -- e.g., Rhapsody wishing she could tell Achmed and Grunthor about something that she told them about two chapters previously. So if that kind of thing bothers you, prepare to be bothered.<br />I thought that the &quot;plot-line&quot; with Meridion was unnecessary and did not add anything to the story but confusion. It seemed to me that it was handled weakly, as if Haydon couldn't decide whether the point of the story was that the past was being changed or just the story. Or somehow the fact that the past was being changed was important to her, but she had trouble getting her point across. The story could stand without painting this gloss of time travel and paradox onto it.  Also, the implication that Meridion had been conceived a subjective twenty  years before his birth (not counting the time in the Root), without any supporting explanation, was too much of a challenge to my suspension of disbelief.<br />The big wedding ending was anticlimactic. It did, however, hint at possibilities for further books. I think we'll be seeing these characters again.	2001-11-08
US	45881099	R3SDA5R9UORIHG	0670910236	243779508	Priestess of Avalon (Avalon, Book 4)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not life-changing, but worth reading	I was skeptical about yet another addition to the Avalon series, as I thought the books had definitely become consecutively less interesting.  So I enjoyed this better than I expected.<br />_Priestess of Avalon_ is less about magic and spirituality than it is about one woman's journey through life, from childhood to old age.  Eilan/Helena is both an individual and an everywoman as she experiences and embodies all three faces of the triple goddess (Maiden, Mother and Crone) and learns the lessons that each has to teach.  The bulk of her experiences take place in the world of Rome and Roman Britain, not Avalon, and are practical rather than mystical.  Some people might find this disappointing, but I was glad to see someone from Avalon who was able to function in the world effectively.  I was also glad to see a different slant on the Avalon persepctive, as I found the last two books to be pretty samey in their focus and mysticism.<br />I found this book unexpectedly touching.  Books with a spiritual message at their core can get very preachy, but _Priestess_ managed to convey a lot of wisdom without patronising.  I liked the relationship between Eilan/Helena and her son, the Emperor Constantine, which showed how likely it is that even members of loving families do not really know one another.  I also liked Eilan/Helena's voice.  It was easy to envision this witty, strong woman and to like her.<br />This book reads a lot more like Diana Paxson than it does like Marion Zimmer Bradley, but I expected that and as I enjoy Paxson's work it didn't bother me.  I think people unfamiliar with her might be disappointed, though, as her writing tends to be starker.<br />My only real problem with the book was that it was too short.  I think there were many things that could have been gone into in more detail.  However as the story was less about the main character's relationship with her environment than it was about her relationnship with herself, the lack of detail about the world and current events did not really detract.<br />_Priestess of Avalon_ is not life-changing or particularly challenging, nor does it turn a generally accepted view of the world on its head as _Mists of Avalon_ did.  Still, it is a thoughtful depiction of one famous woman.and current events did not really detract.<br />_Priestess of Avalon_ is not life-changing or particularly challenging, nor does it turn a generally accepted view of the world on its head as _Mists of Avalon_ did.  Still, it is a thoughtful depiction of one famous woman.	2001-11-02
US	45881099	R4C2EFXHDI3Q4	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fresh and Original	I'm surprised I haven't seen more reviews of the \\"this book is not for children!\\" variety here. I have to admit, I myself have been surprised to find this volume, and its companion, on the youth shelves. Some of the subject matter is quite grim, with a lot of death and dying, the loss of a loved parent and a teenager forced to become an adult far too quickly. Oh...on second thought, I really could have related to that from about eleven on!<br />18-year-old Sabriel has spent most of her life in the Kingdom of Ancelstierre, at a school just south of the wall that divides the south from the magical Old Kingdom in the north.  When she receives a strange message from her father, she knows she must go \\"across the wall\\" to discover her destiny.  The north turns out to be a lot more dangerous than she imagined or suspected:  There is no Royal Family holding it together and some evil force is calling the Dead into Life where they prey upon the living and make things alltogether unpleasant.  With the help of family familiar, Moggett, Sabriel must use her powers of necromancy to battle the evil and save the kingdom.<br />The writing is very stark and simple -- it took me only a couple hours to read _Sabriel_ -- but nonetheless clear and elegant. The magical system is truly unique;  I have never seen necromancy treated in quite this way before, if at all. The characters and situations are believable, and the juxtaposition of fantasy and dark realism is moving. The fantasy Britain of _Sabriel_ is a place where both Magic and Technology exist but never the twain shall meet and somehow the treatment of this old theme seems fresh rather than reconstituted.<br />_Sabriel_ is a really good book, but it's not for anyone who requires sweetness and light.  Though there is a levening of humour the overall tone is dark and the ending is ambiguous.  If you like Phillip Pullman or Neil Gaiman, you'll probably enjoy _Sabriel_.	2001-10-18
US	45881099	R1S1W74XUV1KQT	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	3	23	32	N	N	Probably Could have Cut a lot of this one	If half stars were allowed I actually would have given this book another half star.  I did enjoy it, but it was quite long and the length did not seem as necessary as in some of the other books.  The action seemed slow, even draggy, which I had not found before.  There were quite a few places where Jordan went into more detail than he needed.  I also think that at this point he could stop explaining where every character came from so much and trust that by book five the reader probably knows all about it.<br />It's hard to reach a balance between realism and interesting reading.  As other reviewers have pointed out, Elayne, Nynaeve and Birgitte do bicker a lot and it is annoying.  However, it's also realistic behavior to expect from three women cooped up together in a small space.  Does that mean we want to read about it?  Maybe not at such great length.<br />Many interesting things do happen.  I am increasingly fond of Mat, whom I couldn't stand at the start of the series.  I enjoyed the women's time with the traveling show.  As always, I enjoyed the characters of Thom and Juilin.  I mainly enjoyed the characters in general.  I would, however, like to see people begin to communicate and compromise more.  Everyone seems to think s/he knows exactly what's best for everyone and no one listens.  I hope they can begin to resolve this before the ultimate battle, or they're going to be in trouble.<br />Book five is a point where people who have been stretching to be patient with this series are going to find they can't stretch any farther and give up.  For those who don't find very long books daunting and those who don't chafe at inaction, it is something of a flat spot, but with its own features of interest.	2001-10-12
US	45881099	R2I59M1LA3THM2	0380978792	402338041	The Fresco	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Couldn't Put it Down	This is an incredible book.  As someone else said, I found it particularly relevant in light of the state of the world since the recent destruction of the world trade center -- some of the subject matter makes Tepper seem psychic.<br />Several things did keep me from giving _The Fresco_ a five star rating.  There were several characters that I thought were not developed as fully as they could have been.  Tepper is usually very good about not having extraneous characters;  everyone generally has a significant part to play.  This was not true here.  I would have liked to have seen more Lupe and Angel, for example.<br />A couple of plot elements were mentioned that were never explained, either.  I kept expecting an elucidation of Morse's fear of/distaste for pregnancy, but it never came.  As a result he -- and his cohorts, the antagonists of the story -- seemed flat and arbitrarily evil.<br />Lastly, the end struck me as just a little too pat and happy.  Tepper's other books often end on kind of a question mark;  this one was more positive, but that struck me as unrealistic.  I'm a cynic, though, so others might not be as bothered by this.<br />On the plus side, this book had all those things that make me love Sheri Tepper.  She writes unapologeticaly from a particular feminist point of view (which I happen to share) that often is invalidated even while lip service is paid to it.  She is willing to say that things like the opression of women are morally wrong and that people in power often continue and justify morally wrong behavior because it is to their financial advantage.  She also points out that there is no problem that is unsolvable, but that no solution is going to make everyone happy or be comfortable for everyone, and that there are no easy solutions to complicated problems -- a point of view I appreciate in a world where it often seems that everyone is out for his own advantage and devil take the starving and homeless.  In Tepper's world some people are just dumb as bricks and not everyone is an artist.  Thank the gods!!!!!<br />Many of Tepper's &quot;solutions&quot; to social problems are both humourous and scathing -- a difficult balancing act to carry off. They also display a sense of practical justice that is deeply satisfying.  Unfortunately, it would take an alien intervention to bring such change about.  But if you're disatisfied with the way the world is and the ineffectiveness of politicians and other people in power, you'll definitely want to visit Tepper's world.  It makes a nice vacation to the realm of what could be.dumb as bricks and not everyone is an artist.  Thank the gods!!!!!<br />Many of Tepper's &quot;solutions&quot; to social problems are both humourous and scathing -- a difficult balancing act to carry off. They also display a sense of practical justice that is deeply satisfying.  Unfortunately, it would take an alien intervention to bring such change about.  But if you're disatisfied with the way the world is and the ineffectiveness of politicians and other people in power, you'll definitely want to visit Tepper's world.  It makes a nice vacation to the realm of what could be.	2001-10-10
US	45881099	R23V4W1ZUBXHO4	0441644511	190761387	The Outlaws of Sherwood (Ace Fantasy)	Books	2	12	21	N	N	Didn't hold my attention	When I found this book in my local library, I thought, &quot;Ooh, a _Robin Hood_ story I haven't read!&quot; About a chapter and a half into it, however, I realised I HAD read it, I just had blocked it from my memory.<br />All the characters you might expect are here as well as some that are new. And in a way, that's the problem. To me it seemed as though McKinley used the standard characters because she felt obligated to, when her interest really lay somewhere else. Yes, she does a few interesting things, such as having Robin be not really so great an archer (Marian does all his stunts). But instead of looking into the implications of that and using it to move the story, she just kind of lets it lie there, gasping.<br />Really, McKinley's interest seems to be with two supporting characters, Little John and Cecily.  Cecily, the putative sister of Will Scarlet, is a typical fiesty girl in boys' clothing character and Little John is pretty much the Little John one would expect, but their relationship and budding romace is both touching and amusing. I wish McKinley had just stayed with them, told their story within the context of the Robin Hood mythos or told the Robin Hood story through their eyes and let the rest go hang, but it seems that for some reason she didn't want to do that. As a result the book is flat and somewhat disjointed, as she jockeys between the mythological elements and the invented ones.  The obligatory parts of the story seem to interfere with the progress of the book, rather than add to it.  By the time I got to anything that was relatively interesting, I was wondering why I had begun the book in the first place.<br />_Outlaws of Sherwood_ made me long for Howard Pyle!	2001-10-05
US	45881099	RAS3W015V9UXX	0812544501	137004441	Tam Lin (Fairy Tale)	Books	1	12	29	N	N	Stinky.	Pamela Dean's _Tam Lin_ is part of a series of TOR books based on fairy tales.  It's the only one that needed an editor's introduction explaining the fact.  That ought to tell you something.<br />To be completely fair, as a folksinger I have my own ideas about retelling and updating the Child Ballad upon which this book is allegedly based, and Dean fell so far short of my expectations that I could barely get through the book.  The actual events of the ballad are only dealt with in the last 150 pages or so, and there was no updating, retelling or interpretation as far as I could see.  Everything from the ballad was just stuck right in there;  no metaphor or symbolism was used at all.  Didn't like that.<br />The first 3/4 of the book are taken up with long detailed accounts of the main character's experiences at college.  I notice that a lot of people really seem to have liked this, but to me it was considerably more boring than dirt.  I've been to a liberal arts college and had my own experiences there, thank you.<br />There was some realistic interaction between the characters, but the Theatre Majors were far too nice, particularly about the production of _Hamlet_. Really, all told, this book was just too starry-eyed for me.  I might have liked it when I was about 13, but as an adult it didn't do a thing for me.	2001-10-05
US	45881099	R15LF17DGRC7OB	0345439023	319038815	The Dragon Charmer	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Been there, done that	I did not like _The Dragon Charmer_ as well as I liked _Prospero's Children_.  Unlike the latter, _Dragon Charmer_ seemed disjointed and hurried.  There were too many things going on at once and in my opinion none of them were as well developed as they might have been.  The language was beautiful, but it seemed as though the focus on the language was trying to make up for the fact that there just really wasn't much story, like piling frosting on a overly-thin cake.<br />A lot of what story there was seemed like a repetition of what had already been said in the previous book.  It annoyed me that Fern spent all of _Prospero's Children_ breaking away from being a prim, controlled child and letting magic into her life and then she had to do it all over again.  I was also not interested in hearing still more about the &quot;Oldest Spirit.&quot;  Nor was I particularly thrilled with Siegel's dragons or the portions of the story based on Arthurian lore.  It just seemed like she didn't have anything new to say here.<br />Where Siegel did explore new territory -- as in the relationship between Will and Gaynor and the character of Kal, she was as good as I expected.  Unfortunately, she just didn't spend enough time there.  It was as if _The Dragon Charmer_ was nothing more than a set up for book 3 in the series, so many of the interesting parts just didn't go anywhere.  That there will be a third book was pointed out in an unnecessary and annoying epilogue, just in case you missed the hints about it in the body of the text.<br />I think even linking books deserve to be fully developed.  I wish Siegel had just gone ahead and written the book she wanted to, instead of merely giving the story a lick and a promise before moving on.	2001-10-04
US	45881099	RNHY9IPP98YLL	0812534077	513391749	Memory and Dream	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Shows us the world is a magical place	After I read _Memory and Dream_, I stumbled around for about a week just thinking, &quot;Wow...&quot; De Lint's work often affects me that way, but this book did it to me even more than usual.  I think it's because the characters who populate De Lint's stories are so much like people I know.  Most people don't tend to write about people I know, or people who think the way I do.<br />The story is a deceptively simple one of an artist who is going through a change in her life being forced to own her past and her  power.  But although the theme is one that is seen often, De Lint makes it real in a way that no one else can.  He has a very good heart knowledge of the true pain of life and he presents it in a way that neither minimizes it nor romanticizes it.  He does the same with his urban settings;  this is not a clean or perfect world, and stories are just as likely to happen in an alley as in a mansion.<br />Because the settings and the characters are so real, it is easy to believe in the fantasy elements.  De Lint's work often deals with the lives and experiences of artists, musicians, and storytellers.  Their work is a kind of magic anyway;  all De Lint does is make the magic more vivid.  He really shows us how the world is a magical place, and when everyone else is saying real magic is dead that's a message I want to hear over and over again.	2001-10-01
US	45881099	R3EZDSSOTYXF0P	0380784149	397344247	Convergence: Book One of The Blending	Books	2	20	22	N	N	Not enough meat on the bones	I bought this book last spring because I wanted to read something by someone I had never heard of and because Tom Canty is one of my favourite cover artists.  I ended up getting the remaining four books in the series from the library because I wanted to know what happened, but I personally wouldn't recommend buying them.<br />This book, and the series, seems to have been designed around its structure.  In the world in question, there are five major magical talents -- thus there are five main characters, five books in the series and so forth.  While Green does a good job delineating the characters, she is less successful varying their experiences.  Throughout the series it seems that she has applied one experiential template to every character;  the tests and challenges they face are so infuriatingly similar that you could get a pretty good idea of the entire books by reading a fifth of it.  Likewise, while they all have fears and flaws that are sensitively described, there is something very much the same about all of them and the characters' reactions to them.  By the end it doesn't really matter whether the difficulty comes from family or from business associates or what.<br />A great deal of the plot seems to rely on miscommunication between the characters.  While this is believable at the onset, it becomes less so as the story progresses until I, at least, just wanted to hurt someone.  To me it seemed like Green went out of her way to make people stupider than any adult has a right to be.<br />The first book starts with a cutesy narration that continues between every chapter.  It appears less and less often as the book and the series progress, but I could have done without it entirely.<br />The strength of the book/series comes when Green stops treating her characters as individuals and focuses on how they function as a unit, &quot;Blending&quot; in her terminology.  Unfortunately this happens all too seldom to keep the story interesting to a thoughtful reader.  I'd suggest that if you want to read an author who dwells on the subjects' personal problems but can still handle a moving plot, you turn to Mercedes Lackey instead.I'd suggest that if you want to read an author who dwells on the subjects' personal problems but can still handle a moving plot, you turn to Mercedes Lackey instead.	2001-09-30
US	45881099	R2O6IJRDP09KB4	0345441435	433007920	Prospero's Children	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Charming and Disturbing	I usually don't expect much from books I pick up at the supermarket, so _Prospero's Children_ came as a very pleasant surprise.  The writing is beautiful -- sort of a mix of Charles DeLint and Madeline l'Engle with a dash of C.S. Lewis thrown in for the English-ness of it.  The characters are realistic, and there is enough humour thrown in the cast a light in the darkness.<br />_Prospero's Children_ joins a number of recent books that refuse to downplay the seriousness of &quot;children's&quot; experiences, and some people may have difficulty with it for that reason.  Although I hesitate to label it as a coming of age story, one of the major themes is the main character's throwing off the patterns of youth and emerging into the uncertainty of young adulthood.  In that light, the downfall of Atlantis can be seen as a symbol for the lost paradise of childhood -- a paradise which, when examined closely, turns out to be not so wonderful at all.<br />A poignant and moving tale.	2001-09-27
US	45881099	R16V7XL0425XL4	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Lots of information here	The fourth book in The Wheel of Time is chock full of detail about people, places, societies and plots.  As far as I'm concerned, this is where the series really departs from just another, albeit exceptional, fantasy series.  The amount of detail in the world is mind-boggling.  Every character -- even those you thought were only in that one scene back in book one -- has a purpose and every society is so intricately thought out that it is literally hard to remember that this place was invented by some guy.<br />Sometimes the plot in this volume is a little slow as action gives way in favor of information.  However, some of the action is the best yet.  Perrin's return to the Two Rivers is particularly affecting and the climactic battle scene there is so moving that I actually cried.<br />I was also glad to see Mat coming into his own.  From humble beginnings as an annoying sidekick, he is starting to have experiences that make him one of the most interesting characters in this book.<br />Another fine job by Robert Jordan!	2001-09-27
US	45881099	RII6YI7OWGL45	0671729551	693801609	The Kingdom of the Wicked	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Good writing but doesn't hold together	This is a really hard book to rate.  On the one hand, the actual execution -- writing, style, structure and so forth -- is great. The voice, that of a retired Roman clerk, is consistent throughout and the take on the Roman Empire and early Christianity is  believable and interesting.<br />On the other hand, the story really fell short for me.  As it went on, it became less of a coherent story and more of a list of (mostly dire and unpleasant) events.  While at the beginning it seemed that the characters had some relationship to one another and that the story had a point, by the end it all seemed random and arbitrary.  I enjoyed the narrator as a character, but I kept expecting his story to tie in with the main story. It never did, and I was left wondering why it was he felt so compelled to tell the story in the first place.  As well, the ending fell flat.  I was looking for at least one or two of the characters to undergo some change or experience some kind of redemption.  Maybe I missed something, but it didn't seem like that happened.  As a result, I was left feeling cheated.	2001-09-26
US	45881099	R1GSBIMDM6CXJ2	0553573985	626236404	Gibbon's Decline and Fall	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Not for the Complacent	Sheri Tepper does not pull any punches. Many of her books deal with issues heretofore only addressed in women's studies classes or women's advocacy training. Issues that often cause one to say, &quot;Oh, it doesn't really happen that way,&quot; or &quot;that's an exaggeration,&quot; or &quot;what about the male point of view?&quot;<br />_Gibbon's Decline and Fall_ actually gives a harsher view than others of her books with the same themes (_Grass_, say, or _Shadow's End_)both because the theme is painted in starker and clearer terms rather than being veiled in hints and allusions and because the novel is set in our world, in the now -- not on some other planet or in some distant future. I think this could make _Gibbon_ hard for some to swallow. Certainly unless you've studied radical feminism, the concepts advanced here will shake up your worldview. Reproductive rights are at the core here, and Tepper takes a good hard look at some harsh realities.  This is bound to upset people who subscribe to a simple moralism, or who think that the right answers are always happy ones.<br />Strong, independent women are Tepper's speciality, and there are a number of them here, from artists to lawyers.  But there are no superheroes -- she is also sympathetic to women who are not so strong and not so privileged.  She recognizes that people do stupid things and rationalize the results.<br />Though one might interpret _Gibbon_ as a &quot;battle of the sexes&quot; novel, there are enough sympathetic men to keep it from appearing too one-sided. They are generally not the major players, however.  So if you're apt to be offended by a woman-dominated story, this is probably not a good book for you.<br />Tepper seems to believe that all questions have answers and all problems have solutions. But the answers and solutions do not necessarily mean everything is all happy for everyone. In fact, they necessarily mean upheaval, difficult decisions and sacrifices. Major change isn't a walk in the park.<br />Many people will not like this book, and few will rate it as highly as I have. But _Gibbon's Decline and Fall_ remains my favourite work by my favourite writer of speculative fiction.he park.<br />Many people will not like this book, and few will rate it as highly as I have. But _Gibbon's Decline and Fall_ remains my favourite work by my favourite writer of speculative fiction.	2001-09-24
US	45881099	R3O3N5GDX3X2YL	0380791978	346975989	The Family Tree	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wonderful!	In some respects, _The Family Tree_ is a departure for Tepper. Much of her other work is relentlessly grim -- understandable given the subject matter. But in _The Family Tree_ it seems that the author has finally broken through to that place where things are so awful you just have to laugh. And laugh she does. _Tree_ has a great deal more humour than any of her previous work, and it straddles the fence between ecological manifesto and absurdist fable like a Wallenda.<br />It's not all fun and games, though. The planet is still going to hell in a handbasket and people still have difficult decisions to make. Women are still making stupid choices and propagandists both on the left and the right are still apt to destroy us all. But with all that, I felt this story was hopeful. Maybe not for the human race, but for the planet and life in general.  For all her cautions about wrong action and evil intent, Tepper consistently presents the belief that, given the choice, most people will do the right thing.  And that's a message we all can stand to believe in.	2001-09-24
US	45881099	R3RZ1B263LD2ET	0812555473	532922613	In Legend Born	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Totally Unmemorable	About a week after reading this book I was trying to tell a friend about it. Halfway into the conversation, I realised that the scenes I was describing had taken place in another book altogether and I could hardly remember a thing about this one.<br />Resnick has obviously spent a lot of time setting up the society, philosophy, and politics, but she doesn't do a whole heck of a lot with them. The religious aspects are somewhat interesting, but essentially this is another book about an amazing swordsman, a reluctant hero, and political strife. Ho-hum.	2001-09-24
US	45881099	R3N3N9SLLZ0XGO	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Ain't nothin' wrong with this!	I don't give 5-start ratings easily -- usually not unless the book has a major, life-changing impact on me.  _The Dragon Reborn_ doesn't do that, but for storytelling, character development and sheer scope, I absolutely can't fault it.  The climactic end game, where Jordan brings together the disparate threads with which he has been toying in this volume, is one of the best in fantasy.<br />Jordan has done a very good job in this book of showing the tension between the main characters' youth and the weight of the responsibilities that have been thrust on them.  It's easy to forget that Rand, Perrin, and Mat are (at most) 20;  Elayne and Egwene are certainly no more than eighteen.  That's young, and it makes for realistic reading to see them waver between adult and adolescent behavior.<br />Again, the dream sequences are great, the action is well-done, and the attention to detail is marvelous.  In particular, the two-page scene dealing with blacksmithing shows that Jordan has done his homework.<br />These books are not for the impatient.  Jordan is perfectly willing to let hundreds of pages go by without certain characters' appearing at all while he deals with the rest of them.  Rand, in fact, is mainly in the book by implication.  But Jordan throws in enough reminders of the big picture to keep it from becoming hopelessly confused.<br />A great continuation of the series.	2001-09-23
US	45881099	R62A4KTSX3XY9	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Continuation of the Series	Taking up where _The Eye of the World_ left off, _The Great Hunt_ begins to show us a little more of Jordan's complex world.  Jordan is deft at weaving numerous story threads together, bringing them all to the end of the book with a moving flourish.<br />I was more taken than I expected to be with the magical system of the Aes Sedai.  Many fantasy realms boast mages and schools of mages, but Jordan's is one of the few that is clearly defined and makes sense on both intuitive and logical levels.  I was also impressed with the clear sense of place, both social and physical.  The rules are so well-defined that when someone breaks them it really means something.<br />Jordan's world is one of the most complex and unpredictable I have come across.  I usually have no patience with dualistic Good vs. Evil systems, but Jordan's really pushes the boundaries, with good people doing bad things and vice versa.  Despite the ostensibly Dark/Light division, you are never quite sure who to trust or why.  I also really like the concept, which becomes more prevalent here, of the Dragon Reborn being both a saviour and a destroyer.  Too often the violence that heroes do is minimized or glorified, or they miraculously manage to save the world without damaging any but the clearly deserving evil-doers.<br />Jordan is also adept at managing many different levels of reality.  Nearly as much of the action takes place in dreams as it does in the waking world, and Jordan writes some of the best dream sequences I have read.  He doesn't minimize the dream action, either;  from the start it is clear that what happens in dreams is just as real as what happens when the characters are awake, and sometimes more disturbing.<br />The one difficulty I have with this book is that sometimes the introduction of new concepts and characters is confusing.  When the Seanchan invaders first appeared, for example, I found myself wishing he had spent a little more time on them rather than just throwing us right into the midst of a battle.  It's easier to follow the second time around, with the information from the rest of the books behind you, but the first time I kept flipping back to the glossary hoping for clarification that I never really found.<br />All in all, though, a good follow up and a remarkably good series.nto the midst of a battle.  It's easier to follow the second time around, with the information from the rest of the books behind you, but the first time I kept flipping back to the glossary hoping for clarification that I never really found.<br />All in all, though, a good follow up and a remarkably good series.	2001-09-22
US	45881099	R2Y0L1EGT4VMX3	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Lots of Fantasy Standards	I first read this series a couple years ago when I was sick with monster flu. Which means that these are books you can read and enjoy while being relatively brain-dead. But I find on second reading that you can enjoy them while in your full capacities, too.<br />I did not want to like these books. I am wary of any book whose jacket proclaims its author &quot;the next Tolkein,&quot; and I LOATHE Daryl Sweet's badly-proportioned cover art. And there are a lot of things in this first book of the series that made me think, &quot;_Fellowship of the Ring_ rip-off.&quot; Like, group of innocents from rural community must leave their happy home driven off by faceless, black-cloaked riders and bands of marauding orc-like beings. Like, mysterious magic-user who doesn't explain anything accompanied by weather-beaten man who is heir to a blighted kingdom. Like the Dark Lord in his distant mountain realm. Yadda yadda yadda.<br />On the other hand, a number of things won me over by the end of the book. First of all, there are actually female characters and strong ones at that, still a rarity in fantasy, particularly epic fantasy written by a man. A couple people have mentioned that all the women were alike, or that they were all angry all the time. That didn't strike me so hard. In fact, I thought that Jordan did a pretty good job writing realistic women.<br />Of the three young men, Rand and Mat were pretty standard for fantasy -- one the reluctant hero, the other his reckless and somewhat annoying sidekick.  Mat's thing with the dagger was way too much like Pippin's with the Palantir, too, and lasted a whole lot longer. Perrin, however, I found particularly well-drawn and interesting. I liked the depiction of his efforts to be a gentle man, and his relationship with the wolves was unusual in a genre rife with talking magic animals. Also I did think Jordan gave a fairly accurate description of how high adventure is REALLY likely to affect the adolescent male. And I thought that the inner look at how young men view young women (and vice versa) was well-done and amusing.<br />One of the things that most impressed me was Jordan's impeccable grammar. This may not matter to many people, but after reading _Eye of the World_ again I realised how exhausting it is to read the standard fantasy full of split infinitives, no subject/verb agreement, and dangling prepositional phrases. You will not find those here, and for me that was one of the things that made this book so easy to read.<br />Although he does bring the story to something of a conclusion, this IS definitely the first book of a long, drawn-out series. So in the way of the first act of a play, much of _Eye of the World_ is only the set-up. For more character and plot development, for more details about the society, you just have to wait until other books. Oddly enough, this didn't bother me. I appreciate that Jordan was willing to take his time on the story (a willingness that has allowed his original five-book plan to spread to nine books with no end in sight). The first hundred pages, in fact, only introduces the characters and the bare bones of the background. It wasn't at all a chore to read; it went by remarkably quickly. Yet at the same time, it definitely gave you plenty to chew rather than serve up mere fluff all the way along.<br />You will not like this book if you want everything all at once, and if you can't wait for things to unfold slowly and at a measured pace don't even bother. But if you like a complex story set in a remarkably complex and well-thought-out land, and if you're willing to disregard the fantasy cliche's for the moment, _Eye of the World_ is definitely worth reading.the inner look at how young men view young women (and vice versa) was well-done and amusing.<br />One of the things that most impressed me was Jordan's impeccable grammar. This may not matter to many people, but after reading _Eye of the World_ again I realised how exhausting it is to read the standard fantasy full of split infinitives, no subject/verb agreement, and dangling prepositional phrases. You will not find those here, and for me that was one of the things that made this book so easy to read.<br />Although he does bring the story to something of a conclusion, this IS definitely the first book of a long, drawn-out series. So in the way of the first act of a play, much of _Eye of the World_ is only the set-up. For more character and plot development, for more details about the society, you just have to wait until other books. Oddly enough, this didn't bother me. I appreciate that Jordan was willing to take his time on the story (a willingness that has allowed his original five-book plan to spread to nine books with no end in sight). The first hundred pages, in fact, only introduces the characters and the bare bones of the background. It wasn't at all a chore to read; it went by remarkably quickly. Yet at the same time, it definitely gave you plenty to chew rather than serve up mere fluff all the way along.<br />You will not like this book if you want everything all at once, and if you can't wait for things to unfold slowly and at a measured pace don't even bother. But if you like a complex story set in a remarkably complex and well-thought-out land, and if you're willing to disregard the fantasy cliche's for the moment, _Eye of the World_ is definitely worth reading.	2001-09-18
US	45881099	R1O5VQRQOYE6GP	0765300346	214429954	War for the Oaks: A Novel	Books	3	11	22	N	N	A Bit Hollow	_War for the Oaks_ is supposed to be a classic of the Urban Fantasy genre.  I found it an engaging read, but classic?  Not to me.<br />The concept, that the armies of the Sidhe are duking it out for control of Minneapolis and must have a human on the battlefield to make death stick, is great.  I also liked the depiction of the musician's life;  as a working musician myself, I could definitely see that Bull knew what she was talking about in that quarter.<br />But as a whole, the story stuck me as hollow.  When I was finished, I kept worrying it like the gap from a missing tooth.  Everything just seemed like too much of a lark, too pat.  The people died who were obviously going to die.  The outcome was obvious.  The relationships were obvious. Whenever something could have gone on to make a deeper statement, Bull shied away from it.<br />****SPOILER****<br />I was also really disappointed that Bull felt she had to make Eddi and the Phooka lovers by the end.  I thought the Phooka was much more interesting without that -- or interesting enough that it seemed unnecessary.  And as for Eddi, well, can't a woman exist in a fantasy without ending up in a sexual relationship?  It just seemed pointless, and I couldn't believe in it.<br />All in all, good candy, but it left me wanting a real meal.	2001-09-18
US	45881099	R1U1DABMHR101H	0812551389	705935030	The Skystone (The Camulod Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	15	19	N	N	A Very Different Take	This is a very different take on the matter of Britain.  So different, in fact, that it starts with Arthur's putative great-grandfather and unless you know in advance that the Arthurian Legends are the subject of Whyte's books (which of course you do) you could easily miss it entirely.<br />The style is not at all mythic.  We're talking about practical people with practical concerns here, and this was one of the things I found fascinating.  The book deals with the end of the Roman occupation of Britain, a period about which not too much fiction is written, and it handles it very well.  Magic, however, it ain't.<br />The one thing that bothered me a bit was how the Romans (and Publius Varrus in particular) were portrayed as responsible for so many of the developments in Celtic culture, from the Celtic Cross to the Longbow.  I got to thinking, &quot;Oh, that too, huh?&quot;<br />There's some great details about metallurgy and military life and politics, which almost lead me to label this a &quot;guy&quot; book but not quite.  Also, the female characters are not as well-rounded as I would like.<br />All in all, though, a good book for anyone interested in Arthurian Legend from a wide persepctive.	2001-09-18
US	45881099	RBQCZXGIHRGSA	0886773520	42355391	Magic's Pawn (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 1)	Books	4	76	80	N	N	An Original	Mercedes Lackey is one of those who has taken modern fantasy to the human level, and for that I honour her.  I've re-read the Vanyel books a number of times, and there's good reason why they remain some of her fans' favourites.<br />I'd say the one thing that I find most displeasing about the Vanyel books is the arbitrary presence of evil.  We're told that the Heralds, the keepers of The Right in Lackey's world of Valdemar, are short lived because they're continually doing battle against BAD THINGS, but it's never really clear what those bad things are, where they come from or why they're bad.  Magic's Pawn (and Magic's Price, the last book in the trilogy) ends with the main character doing battle with an evil Mage who seems to exist merely to do bad things to good people.  This battle seems tacked on simply to provide a rousing finish to the book;  there's very little build up to it and it has almost no connection to the rest of the story.  To me, that's lazy writing.<br />But the story really isn't about that.  The story is about Vanyel, his flaws and strengths as a person and his relationships with friends, lovers, and family, and that is done exceedingly well.  Lackey has a sure touch depicting the harm people do to people.  Vanyel is a misfit both in his family and with his peers and he suffers not only from their treatment but from his defenses against it.<br />Lackey also went out on a limb making her main character homosexually oriented, and she painted Vanyel's relationship in an honest, genuine way without a lot of stereotyping.<br />The writing isn't great, but this story is so affecting that you can overlook that. It's easy to see why Lackey's books attract numerous fans.	2001-09-18
US	45881099	R2KJMGV08WBT2G	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Exceptional Writing	If you've read Gaiman's work before, you will recognise many of the themes in this book.  Everything about the nature of Gods -- what they are, where they come from, how they survive, and what happens when they don't -- seems to be of supreme interest to him.  As well, he is often concerned with the relationships between &quot;common&quot; mortals and the &quot;uncommon&quot; (deity, supernatural forces, etc.)and how that relationship changes a person.<br />Gaiman certainly has the background knowledge to explore these topics!  In fact, much of his work seems to contain less truly original content than it does beautifully arranged and applied folk traditions and mythologies.  But to Gaiman, it seems that everything is a mythology, from tales of the Norse Pantheon to serial killers and black helicopters.  Myself, I see the world that way too, so it's validating to read someone else who does.  People who don't see the world that way, however, can find Gaiman's work long-winded and irrelevant.<br />Gaiman's use of language is one the strongest points of this novel.  He uses no more words than necessary, yet combines them in exquisite pictures like &quot;Chicago came on slowly, like a migraine.&quot;  Having read _American Gods_ following a cheesy and bombastic fantasy novel, I was really refreshed!<br />I also really liked that much of the book was set in small towns and out of the way places.  Living in a small town myself, I can say that Gaiman really has a handle on both the charms and oddities of small town America.  It's great to see that given space without being made totally sinister, as King tends to do.<br />Some people have objected to the lack of Christian content in anything with the word &quot;Gods&quot; in it.  Similar objections were made to sections of _The Sandman's_ run.  The only thing I can say to this is, if you're a strict monotheist or a religious fundamentalist of any kind, you will probably not like this book, so don't bother. Ditto if you don't like having your idea of the world challenged, or if you just don't find questions about the nature of deity interesting.t like having your idea of the world challenged, or if you just don't find questions about the nature of deity interesting.	2001-09-14
US	45881099	R29LMP0BIMSLJG	0812570820	915491164	Prophecy: Child of Earth (Rhapsody, Book 2)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Must have been a BIG bathtub!	I liked _Prophecy_ A LOT better than I liked _Rhapsody_. Overall the writing was better and the plot actually moved. On the other hand, there were still a number of things I found annoying. The extended sex scenes were alltogether too much. That other reviewer wasn't exaggertaing when he said that 20 pages could easily have been cut. I found the details pretty voyeuristic, too, and I don't consiider myself a prude. The &quot;bathtub&quot; encounter especially was...well, when a scene makes you wonder about the size of the bathtub rather than anything relevant to the story, I really think the book could do without it.<br /><br />Besides the sex, there were several other scenes that did nothing for the story, as well as several conversations that just seemed to prolong the inevitable. At several points, I found myself thinking, &quot;Will you just get on with it!!&quot;<br />Rhapsody was much less annoying in this book, at least when seen through others' eyes. Whenever she opened her mouth, though, she seemed to come out with some idiocy. It also seems like the only emotion she really knows how to express is anger; she always seems to be getting pissed off at the most innocent comments. Her tantrums really make me have a hard time taking her seriously, and I keep wondering why the other characters always give in to her and admit to being wrong to have offended her delicate sensibilities, rather than slapping her.<br />In fact, my main problem with Haydon's work is that her characters express such a limited range of emotion. Either everything is hunky-dory, or someone is throwing a fit. In one of the least understandable scenes of the book, an otherwise exceptional character suddenly suffers what seems to be a psychotic episode, verbally abusing Rhapsody and breaking her lute. WE find out that this behavior is triggered by its being the aniversary of her husband's death. But, I'm sorry, this just didn't seem real to me and I've seen a lot of expressions of grief.<br />Haydon's biggest strength is in her supporting characters. One of the most genuine relationships in the book is between Tristan and Pru; Grunthor, Oelendra, and Elynsynos are all very interesting. Unfortunately, when she spends more time on them, Haydon loses them. It's as if she just doesn't know who they are past a certain point.<br />Still, worth reading for the cosmology.<br />BTW, I'd just like to point out to the person responsible for the cover art, and fantasy artists in general, that DESPITE the references to carrying one's bow &quot;slung over one's back,&quot; You really can't carry a longbow that way and expect to be able to move or breathe.  It actually causes a sensation akin to being stuck in a cheese slicer.  It's not good for the bow, either.don's biggest strength is in her supporting characters. One of the most genuine relationships in the book is between Tristan and Pru; Grunthor, Oelendra, and Elynsynos are all very interesting. Unfortunately, when she spends more time on them, Haydon loses them. It's as if she just doesn't know who they are past a certain point.<br />Still, worth reading for the cosmology.<br />BTW, I'd just like to point out to the person responsible for the cover art, and fantasy artists in general, that DESPITE the references to carrying one's bow &quot;slung over one's back,&quot; You really can't carry a longbow that way and expect to be able to move or breathe.  It actually causes a sensation akin to being stuck in a cheese slicer.  It's not good for the bow, either.	2001-09-14
US	45881099	R3I6G3DB5QB47A	0812570812	953091978	Rhapsody : Child of Blood	Books	2	16	27	N	N	Indescribably Annoying	I can't understand why this book is getting all the raves it is. I personally found that it was...okay, but not absorbing; I had no trouble putting it down and there were plenty of things I'd rather do than pick it up. In fact, the first time I did pick it up I couldn't get through more than the first five pages before I decided I had better things to do with my time.<br />The characters are so stock that they seemed computer generated. I had definitely seen every one of them before, and most of the places I had seen them they were better done and more believable. Though Haydon makes an effort to portray people who are well-rounded and not necessarily nice, it fell flat. Even when the ogre-type was hlding forth about drinking the blood and eating the flesh of his enemies, he seemed to have been brought into being by the creators of My Little Pony.<br />Rhapsody herself is prissy and irritating, and her extreme beauty is pointless and trite. Haydon keeps talking about the horrid experiences of her past, but you get the feeling that the author has never had any hardship in her life and so doesn't know how real people react to it and grow through it. This is unfortunate, as some of the magical powers involved are interesting. However, they were not interesting enough and did not add enough to the story to make up for the annoyance of having to read about these people.<br />The plot itself is pretty interesting once you can find it, but there are some devices that just didn't work for me to the point of detracting from the story rather than adding to it. I also found there were LONG passages of utterly dull non-events linking miniscule paragraphs of brilliance; everything that I found interesting just wasn't dealt with enough. For example, I expected the science of Singing to have a more prevalent and relevant place in the book; instead it seemed just kind of tacked on.<br />The writing itself was stilted and overdone in places. It reminded me of the books we all write in junior high after the first time we read _Lord of the Rings._ The dialog paid lip service to being witty, but once again seemed shallow and flat.<br />I found the framing sequence incomprehensible and distracting. Once again, it seemed designed to be significant and didn't work. In fact, one of the things that I found so distasteful about _Rhapsody_ was that it seemed less a true work of fantasy than a marketing ploy intended to appeal to readers of fantasy. It had all the elements one would expect, but they were applied in the ham-fisted manner of an advertisement.<br />All in all, I'd say take this book on a vacation where you have plenty of other stuff to do, but if you're marooned with it you're in trouble.in junior high after the first time we read _Lord of the Rings._ The dialog paid lip service to being witty, but once again seemed shallow and flat.<br />I found the framing sequence incomprehensible and distracting. Once again, it seemed designed to be significant and didn't work. In fact, one of the things that I found so distasteful about _Rhapsody_ was that it seemed less a true work of fantasy than a marketing ploy intended to appeal to readers of fantasy. It had all the elements one would expect, but they were applied in the ham-fisted manner of an advertisement.<br />All in all, I'd say take this book on a vacation where you have plenty of other stuff to do, but if you're marooned with it you're in trouble.	2001-09-08
