US	45917952	R34758MV5UMEE	0192840754	285663098	The History of the English People 1000-1154 (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Excellent Source Material	What surprised me most about reading this was how accessible the book was. I was expecting it to be as dry as the original parchment that it was written on. Instead, it narrative reads more or less like any other history, and I mean that as a compliment. It is apparent that translator Diana Greenway and and the Oxford University Press have bent over backwards to make the text inclusive and unpretentious. The first part of the book has a wonderful introduction, setting the stage of what England was like during the time &quot;History&quot; was written. Including the state of the church and the politics surronding it at that time. It also provides how the book was written and the best way to approach the style of the text. And then of course it gives an interesting look into life of the author itself. This volume also includes a selected bibliography, genealogical tables, as well as a glossary.<br />The book itself is a fascinating account, starting with the  Aethelred's second marrage to his Norman wife Emma and ending with the coronation of Henry II. The pace is brisk and he likes to move things along. One particular aspect of the narrative that I enjoyed was his use of biblical verses used to reflect what he was talking about. I'm not a religious man, but of course Henry was and his broad use of &quot;verse dropping&quot; ranges from clever puns to very profound. And the &quot;eyewitness&quot; factor of Henry I and Stephens reign should be catnip to the history buff.<br />My only severe complaint about this book was the explanatory notes. Normally footnotes are at the bottom of the page or in back of the book. In this case it's the latter which is fine. However be warned that the notes are not numbered. While reading you will see a simple asterisk. The notes are divided by chapter in the back of the book and it's very frustrating trying to hunt down an explanation when the note list on that chapter is over two pages long and you don't have a &quot;number&quot; to that note to go to.<BR>Aside from that complaint everything else about this outstanding. So armchair historians can relax. This is a comprehensive and accessible offering. A definite must have.	2004-06-25
US	45917952	R3TGO3I2HTLOJ8	0345362276	958044374	Wizard at Large (Magic Kingdom of Landover, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nice addition	The third book in the series starts off with very excited Questor who is positive that he can now revert Abernathy the court scribe and talking terrier back to his human form. During the incantation Questor sneezes and instead of tranforming him, he transports him. To Earth and in the castle/fortress of the original heir to Landover, Michael Ard Rhi. Much had been made of this guy in first two installments and Terry Brooks does not disappoint. This is one of the authors best villians. Ben immediatly crosses back over to go get him. Willow comes along. Leaving Questor in charge, hence the title of the book. Questor now has the task of recovering a magical bottle complete with a evil bottle imp that is reeking havoc in the land. All thanks to the filthy and meddling G'home Gnomes, Philip and Sot.<br />The one thing that I have always liked about this series is that in the beginning, the hero is just as clueless to the world Landover as the reader. The world starts off small and Brooks is great at adding layer after layer with each book. The last book was more focused on the character growth of Ben. Here it concentrates more on Questor, Abernathy and, surprisingly, the ambiguous River King. There is a great battle between wizard and dragon, but there is also another incident that happens on earth that, while good, strains belief even for a fantasy. All in all, a great book and fans of the series will not feel cheated. Makes you definitely want to get the next one.	2004-04-12
US	45917952	R1CKNXZQYW7NRY	0345335287	851755357	The Black Unicorn (Landover)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Decent Sequel	A nice addition to the Landover series. The book starts off with Ben, Willow and Questor all having very vivid dreams that they feel they need to act upon. Ben, thinking that his friend from Chicago is in trouble, goes back through the fairy mists to earth. Questor goes to an ancient fortess to find lost books of magic and Willow goes in search of the black unicorn, a legendary beast of pure evil. All of this, not surprisingly is the grand planning of Meeks. The quasi-villian from the last book. The reason why I say quasi is that he was not the main antagonist in book one. Here however, he takes a much more active role and the results make for very entertaining reading. Meeks transforms Ben into an incognito peasant and takes his persona, acting as king of Landover. The only people who recognize him are is enemies and the only help he gets is from a frustratingly egnimatic talking cat by the name of Edgewood Dirk. A nice addition to the growing pantheon of characters. Speaking of which, Strabo, Nightshade, Kallendor and the River King all make an appearance and all show growth. Even Ben, but the decisions that he makes can be somewhat daft and tends to strain the story a bit. Other than that warning, (more of a heads up really) it's a great story and a nice diversion from the epic Shannara series. I think most will like this and agree.	2004-04-12
US	45917952	RCGNWZHBXLQ6Y	0345317580	796446692	Magic Kingdom for Sale--Sold! (Landover)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Just plain and simple fun	Ben Holiday, a successful lawyer and recent widower purchases a magic kingdom out of an exclusive catalog for a million dollars.<BR> <BR>A great fantasy done by one of the best. A fun and action packed adventure that is refreshingly unpretentious. What makes this work is that the book never tries to be more than what it is. There is no deep rooted symbolism or abstract concepts to be found here. Just a cast of great semi-quirky caracters in a book with a unique charm. Those who like their fantasy in an epic scale look elsewhere. All others enjoy!	2004-03-20
US	45917952	R196EE6757T2LH	0553212737	569473707	Emma (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Recommended but not outstanding	As good as this book is, it is slow to start does not really pick up until after the 150 pages or so. But stick with it. However, those looking for an introduction to Jane Austen might be better suited with faster paced Pride &amp; Prejudice and gradually make your way toward this one.<br />Two things that I liked very much about this book. The lead character is a likable but strong willed heroine with fixed ideas and the author is not afraid to use that to a disadvantage. Emma is flawed and it makes her interesting to read. Also, you get a stronger sense of community in a small victorian town and how they relied on one another found here than any of her other works that I have read. It's a very charming enjoyable aspect that works in the books favor. As far as premise goes, this is one of the more cohesive and linear of Austen's works and I can see the reason why this has been this has been adapted to film and stage so many times.<br />What I liked about Bantams edition was there was no droll introduction or afterward by a scholar indicating why the book and author are important and lets the work speak for itself. What they did have was useful footnotes when the characters were referencing now obscure objects, writers and poets making the book more accessible. <br />But as well as the book starting slowly, the other problem I had was that I found myself not emotionally investing in the characters. Emma is likeable, as stated before, but that was about it. Despite her appeal, she has no impact. Same goes with everyone else save for Miss Bates. The town spinster had me in stitches with her rambling monologues and sweet nature. When someone picks on her, it does make an impact.<br />A nice story, just not a great one. Outside of the reservations mentioned, I'm glad I read it and recommend it.	2004-03-10
US	45917952	R2J2FTS8JZXUBL	0895773899	186174010	One Dish Meals The Easy Way	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great for all levels of cooking	I got this six years ago as a bachelor who had barely touched a stove. One of my first cookbooks, the &quot;One Dish&quot; cooking is what was appealed to me. The instructions are easy to follow and the dishes range from very basic to expert. This does have a lot of casserole and stew variations. However, I found quite a few surprises one would not normally think of and it does not stick to Americana cuisine. There is Latin, Asian, European and Middle eastern as well. Chapters are broken down by meat, and course and includes a great one for desserts. Basic cook and bakewear required and a few spices outside the norm is all you need to get the full enjoyment out of this book. Still one of my favorite cookbooks.	2004-02-28
US	45917952	R3LQNGEIOGIBEV	1563890119	763187671	The Sandman Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful Book - Incredible series	It's a little sad after reading the Sandman books because you know you will never quite recapture the same feeling of going through such a great story for the first time when you pick them again. And trust me, you will be rereading these.<br />But the flip side of that is once you have read the series and go back, you see how fully realized Neil Gaiman's vision is. What seems like almost arbitrary bits of exposition are the seeds of future story arcs. &quot;Season of Mists&quot; the fourth book in the series, being just one example.<br />The main story begins when a necromancer who, intending to capture Death, captures her little brother Dream instead. He and his son keep him locked up for the better part of the 20th century. Once &quot;Sandman&quot; breaks out, he must restore his dream kingdom and reclaim his talismans of power. That takes him to London, Hell and a 24hr diner outside of Gotham.<br />What I love particularly about this series is that it is esoteric without being pretentious. This is what happens when someone who is remarkably well read is also a comic fan. Gaiman manages to invoke The Old Testament, William Faulkner, old DC Comic mythos, Shakespeare, Bobby Darin, Victorian Literature and Greek Tragedy, makes it relevant to the story, and then makes the concepts comprehensible to a fifteen year old. And that's just in this volume. I say the last because that's how old I was when I started to read these. At the risk of sounding overzealous, it has since challenged me to become as well read as the author.<br />I've read other reviews arguing that this is not the best one. I disagree only because I know that each volume speaks differently to different people. My humble advice is to start with this one and read them in order the way the author wrote them. I have bought this particular volume three times over the years due to lending it out to friends and not getting it back. Treasure this as well, enjoy and don't lend them out!	2004-02-25
US	45917952	R2O4K2HJYQI3P9	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Be a man! Read Jane Austen!	I'm a recent newlywed who decided to raid his wifes bookshelf and this was the first book of hers that I picked up. Wanting to be better read and enjoying the movie &quot;Sense and Sensibility.&quot;<br /> I recommend to anyone that is curious but apprehensive of Austen like I was to see a film based on one of her books. You will hear the use and cadence of victorian speech which will, in my humble opinion, make her books more accessible and easier to read. This is the first Jane Austen I've read and I am now bonafide fan.<br />This is one of those stories where the destination is not important but the journey is. Within the first ten pages, the stage is set. The two headstrong protagonists, Miss Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy cannot stand one another at the beginning of the book. Sparks fly and meet with typical results. The characters are distinct and memorable. Mr. Bennet, Elizabeth's father, was one of my favorites. Anyone who is an admirer of dry &quot;british&quot; humor will find themselves in stitches. It is the first book in a very long time where I found myself laughing out loud and on more than one occasion.<br />A moderately quick read for those used to victorian prose. I for one am glad that I got over the &quot;girly&quot; stigma that's usually associated with Jane Austen. It has made me consider other books in my wifes arsenal I normally would not have otherwise.<br />I will, however, pass on her &quot;The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood&quot;<br />Great book. Enjoy.	2004-02-23
US	45917952	R3GHRJVWBCSGCO	0440145465	84946632	King Rat (Asian Saga)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great adventure	An American corporal manages to swindle and manipulate his way to being the &quot;King&quot; of a Japanese POW camp. The one thing that sets this aside from Clavell's three other novels that I have read, aside from being semi autobiographical is the protagonist. The King has a rascal like charm to him that makes the character highly readable and fun. He is the underdog. Plotting and conniving to make a buck and sticking it to his superiors and relishing it. A man in the right place at the right time. He befriends a British Lieutenant by the name of Marlowe (A nice little nod to Joseph Conrad) whose honor and integrity is arguably the the conflict in the book. Finally, on the opposite end of the spectrum, you have the dutiful yet pitful antagonist Lieutenant Grey. Who, while morally and lawfully in the right, alienates himself by taking himself too seriously. These three make for some great tension and are the main drive of the story.<br />I was pleasantly surprised to find that this was not an epic, despite this being his most personal story. However, Clavell fans will not be disappointed. The protagonist thinks two steps ahead of everyone else (I would hate to play chess with the author) and I would not be surprised if King's shrewdness was a precursor to Toranaga in Shogun. Any less qualified author would have made this story into glorified genre pulp. For those struggling for a visual reference, think Bridge on the River Kwai and Pappilon. A great read and highly recommended.	2004-02-18
US	45917952	RU9PC6GGSUNPQ	1740590449	235893923	Lonely Planet Istanbul	Books	3	8	8	N	N	On the fence	This is one of two books that my wife and I took with us for our week in Istanbul. The other being DK's Eyewitness guide. While we would call neither a difinitive guide, both were helpful. We found the Lonely Planet to be hit and miss. Practical layouts and maps were very helpful with key sights. We never would have found the crusader tomb in the Aya Sofya without it. Nor would we have thought to go to the Museum of Archeology if it was not for it's strong endorsement. The overview of the history was surprisingly in depth and very informative. And what to expect as far as the people and tips on bartering were dead on. The condition of the public restrooms (yikes!) was also a nice heads up.<BR>However, if this is the most recent guide it is outdated. It mentions a book bazaar that has since closed when we arrived in October of 2003. This wasted a signifigant portion of our day looking for it. Also the restaraunt guide was frustrating. The Cozy Pub lived up to it's endorsement. Friendly folks who delighted in telling us the do and dont's of Turkish cuisine. We dined there three times. But the &quot;five star&quot; Sarnich restaraunt was the biggest dissapointment. Even though you could not beat the atmosphere (dining in a 1000 year old cistern)the waitstaff was rude and the food was just plain bad. I swear to god, french fries and frozen veggies with meat the size and hardness of hockey pucks with moderatley decent wine for two for a 100 bucks.<br />I do recommend this book but with the strong reservations mentioned. There were things that we found in this guide that were not in our other one and vice versa. But this is to be expected, since I have never relied solely on one book for any country.	2004-02-10
US	45917952	R3UZ7GJVQ22896	0671510126	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent story and a fine fable	I'll be the first to admit, the premise of this book is not the most appealing. The life of a struggling peasant farmer in rural China during the turn of the century did not strike me as being a page turner. But Pearl S. Buck made me a fan after the first twenty pages and I could not put it down. At the urgings of my friends who knew that I was a fan of historical fiction I picked this one up. The story is thoughtful, told with compassion, and surprisingly fast paced. The characters are fascinating and are the main element that kept me reading. The unconventional protagonist is Wang Lung. A very self aware and sincere farmer whose story is told in third person but soley from his point of view. He marries a slave girl, O-lan, from the nearby village. They come to love each other not with passion, but with unspoken admiration and respect. Whats more is that they both earn the respect of the reader. O-lan clearly lives a hard life and has been given a bad hand, even sometimes at Wang Lungs doing, but it is hard to see her as a victim becuase does not see herself as one.<br />Before finishing this book I became so sure that I liked the authors work that I bought Pavillion of Women. I was also pleasantly surprised to find that this was a Pulitzer prize winner over seventy years ago. Obtusely dismissing those books as stuffy and pretentious, I now look forward to reading those as well. Especially if they are written with such earnestness as this fine fable.	2004-02-10
US	45917952	R3DI0I2LOYY2LG	0812532597	755744029	The Memory of Earth (Homecoming)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Intriguing Beginning	From a predominant author in the sci-fi genre comes the first book of five in a series. The Oversoul, a mastermind computer that orbits the planet of Harmony, was built by the decendants of Earth, who came to the planet over a million years ago. It was designed to constrain thoughts of war and war-like technology from it's inhabitants, lest they repeat the fate of their ancestors. After working for a million or so years, the Oversoul is now starting to show signs of wear and tear. A select few on Harmony realize what is going on and hence the drama of the book.<BR> <BR>This is the first Card that I have read and while I was not blown away, this left me impressed enough to pick up the sequel when I come across it. This is by no means action packed, but that's what I liked about it. This is more of a political and family drama set in the sci-fi genre. It deals with relationships and the functioning govornment of Harmony and how they are impacted by the Oversoul. While it does have the almost obligitory chase scene and really cool gadgets. This is more of a, dare I say it, thoughtful sci-fi novel. <br />The concept, world and characters are fully realized. The women in this novel are exceptionally strong. However, it was somewhat tedious at the beginning because you feel like you have been dropped in the middle of something and you must catch up as you go along. A tad more expostion would have done the trick.<BR>However the alternative could have been much worse. I have, as I'm sure you have as well, read too many sci-fi novels where the author tries to get an arcane philosophy across and it winds up being onanistic drivel. Not the case here. While there is some great food for thought, it lends itself to the story and moves it forward.<br />I also liked that Orson Scott Card is influenced from the best. While this has the Old Testament all over it, look for nods to Aldous Huxley and Anthony Burgess as well.<br />However it lacks an emotional pull and in some instancesthe use of dialogue can be somewhat strained. The alpha male bantering between the fourteen year old protagonist and his brothers, while relatable, seem awkward at times.<br />Flaws aside, I can think of plenty worse out there. Not a bad way to pass some time and while by no means a classic, I can see the appeal of Orson Scott Card and will most likley buy &quot;Enders Game&quot; as a result.	2004-02-05
US	45917952	R2D1ZT3FS2F8SH	0393037622	221540312	Blood and Guts: A Short History of Medicine	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Enjoyable and informative	I got this one because I love obscure history and it does not disappoint. Be warned the book is aptly named. It is gristly albeit fascinating. Starting with diseases and ending with modern medicine Porter takes you step by step chronologically through almost all aspects related to healing. He leaves no gall stone unturned (sorry.. couldn't help it.) He does at times get carried away with his terminology, but the book is surprisingly accessible. The author is able to convey the importance of discoveries by setting up what conditions were like before those discoveries were made. Notably some that we take for granted, like the finding and use of vitamins and antibiotics. Quick, enjoyable and well worth getting. This is something I look forward to reading again soon.	2004-01-21
US	45917952	R193TRNPD5GGNL	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Excellent for the &quot;Obscure Subject&quot; enthusiast	Mary Roach has tackled this arguably taboo subject head-on with fascinating detail and a surprising amount of wit. Part history, part journalism she manages to hit on every concievable use that the cadaver has gone through. From forensic research on decay to being mummified in honey for a century. She also includes an enthralling chapter about experimental &quot;recycling&quot; technology, that hopefully will be available in a few years.<BR>As far as the squeamish factor, I must admit that there is &quot;something for everyone&quot; here. There were a few times where you can't help but say &quot;Yeechh!&quot; But then again, you are reading a review on a book about cadavers, so I think you may be prepared.<BR>Refreshingly unique, I bought this as gift before finishing it a few days ago. Mary Roach manages to bring respect and wit to a sentive subject. I'm on board for her next book, no matter what the issue. One of a kind.	2004-01-20
US	45917952	RJOZWSNYHH31S	0345435257	335533924	Angel Fire East (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent addition to the series	The third book of The Word and the Void series does not disappoint. Taking place ten years after the Knight of the Word, we find Nest, a former Olymic gold medalist and recent divorcee back in her hometown of Hopewell, Illinois. Which is fine by this reviewer since Brooks gave us a wonderfully vivid impression of it in his last two books. He describes Hopewell with as much care and compassion as he does with Shady Vale.<BR> <BR>Nest is approached and harrased by a demon named Findo Gask who is a preacher of the Void. He is looking for, who else, John Ross. John apparantly has been given the task by the Lady of capturing a Gypsy Morph, a being of great magic, and Gask wants it.<br />The authors strength here is not actually the premise but the characters in the series. However the payoff at the end is very much worth it. Most of the supporting characters that were in the first book pop up in one way or another here. Bennet Scott, the little girl that nest saves at the very beginning of the series, being a prime example. The demons (yes that's plural)in this book are particularly exceptional. Gask being the most formidable. Two Bears, whom I'm not normally a fan of, also makes his best cameo yet.<br />One admirable aspect of these novels is they take place over a span of twenty years, but the author is very carefull not to date the books with, well, by giving dates and telling current events or technology. Interesting sidenote, thought it was worth mentioning. Anyway....<br />Anyone who thinks that this is the last installment to a trilogy will be pleasantly surprised. Brooks leaves a lot open at the end of this story.<BR>Highly recommended. Fans do not worry. My second favorite after &quot;Demon&quot;	2004-01-14
US	45917952	R3TSFD520ZJIKU	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Morbid version of Our Town	For those who think that this is a slick genre thriller or a great whodunit need to look elsewhere. Or if you were like me, stick with it find yourself pleasantly surprised. I picked this up, like most, from strong word of mouth and a moderately original premise. A girl who is brutally killed tells her story watches her friends and family from heaven.<BR>While the premise is violent, the book is not. It's about a family, community and the victim itself impacted by seemingly senseless act of violence. Both sides coping with loss and struggling to let go. I found myself wading through the first seventy five pages or so and I realized two things. This book was not what I thought it was and I really enjoy reading about these characters.<BR> Those who say that this is a classic might be speaking a little to soon. You don't uncork a bottle of wine that has not aged properly. But the book does resonate and I would love to see where this is in fifteen years or so.<BR> Profound and evocative, this is one of the few &quot;popular fiction&quot; novels that live up to it's hype. Just be aware that it's more Thorton Wilder and Russel Banks than John Sanford and Patricia Cornwell. Highly recommended.	2004-01-13
US	45917952	R1RZROW1X44H2	0140143955	903499644	The Anglo-Saxons	Books	4	72	73	N	N	Thoughts from an armchair historian	The book is rich in detail, highly informative and well illustrated. The picture essays throughout the book are great, the ones on the cult of St. Cuthbert and the formation of boroughs I found particularly enjoyable. <BR>Part history, part archeology the book tracks down and gives origins and backgrounds of the source materials that the authors use providing some great insight not normally found in other books on the subject. After reading this book, one can't help become an admirer of Bede. Also what I found interesting is that most of the book emphasizes the history of Anglo-Saxons ecclesiastically instead of following the monarchs like most others. <BR>My one severe critizism of the book is that there is no mention of the Witanagemot anywhere. Other problems that I had were that the last third of the book was surpisingly a glossy overview of events. Which is ironic since that is the era of Saxon England that has the most detail. And the book can be dry in places. <br />It has been noted that this has been used as a text book and I can see why. But I do not recommend this as the first book to get regarding this subject. The authors expect you to have at least a general knowledge of Anglo-Saxon England, particularly when it comes to its kings. Those familiar with the history will find this an excellent addition to your library. Critizisms aside, this is an admirable work and I'm glad I bought it.	2003-12-31
US	45917952	R3OJ5A5D2H3R4Y	0213165589	604747069	Fall of Saxon England	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent starter for the subject	The book gives a very comprehensible and accessible narrative for anyone pursuing an interest in this subject. Starting from the fall of the Roman Empire and ending with the last entry in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle the reader comes away with a very satisfying account of Saxon England. This book is by no means &quot;dry.&quot; Richard Humble manages to give personality to the people that he is writing about and concentrates on telling the story than give a lesson. Most importantly it makes one want to pick up more books on the subject. The book is not a definitive work, but it is a wonderful general overview and a great addition to an armchair historians library.	2003-12-31
US	45917952	R3K1U26G7FWVS4	0345424646	904125746	A Knight of the Word (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Intriguing Sequel	Where as most of &quot;Running with the Demon&quot; was centered around Nest Freemark. This one turns it attention to John Ross, a Knight of the Word. Just in case you didn't get that from the title.<br />&quot;Knight&quot; takes place five years after the first book left off. John Ross is suffering from a crisis of faith after a botched rescue which makes him a prime target for the demons that he was fighting against to turn him into one of them.<BR>The Lady enlists the help of Nest freemark along with a tatterdemalion Ariel to save him.<br />Really a good sequel. Nothing as far as continuity was forced and you can see that the author has more to tell with this series. Once again Brooks provides us with some likable and readable characters, and it proves, like it's predecessor, to be the heart of the book. For those who like quick paced action, look elsewhere. However there is one of the best chase scenes I've read hands down. Not being dramatic, but man it was good!<br />The book provides more insight to John Ross and makes him more of a sympathetic character. But surprisingly the Lady and Two Bears more ambiguous. I never really caught on to Two Bears in the last one, thinking he was just an awkward plot device. In this book, it's more of the same. Fans of the native american veteran should be happy, though. The one fault in the book is the author manages to be a bit magnanimous when it comes to talking about the homeless. It was well intentioned, but it was almost too much. He also comes short as a mystery writer as well.<br />Faults aside, this still is a good book and fans of the first installment will not be dissapointed. It definiteley makes you want to get the third in the series. Brooks again proves that he is still one of the best writers of his genre.	2003-11-27
US	45917952	R2FIK3M09IKS02	0345422589	34717978	Running With the Demon (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not resting on his laurels	It is great to see Terry Brooks take yet another turn for the better and presents his fans with a brand new series. This takes place not in Shannara or in Landover but in modern day Hopewell, Illinios.<BR>Nest Freemark is a girl who carries on the tradition of the women before by using magic to protect the local park. Namely her grandmother and her deceased mother. Brooks says within the first thirty pages that they are not witches, so Anne Rice fans calm yourselves. A demon arrives at Hopewell along with a Knight of the Word, the egnimatic John Ross. Guess who is caught in the middle. <br />The book starts with a great chase scene and then calms down for a bit before picking back up. At first it was a bit tedious, but in the last one hundred and fifty pages every bit of it proves very relevant.<BR>The charm and heart of the book comes not from the protagonist Nest or even from John Ross. It comes from the supporting and peripheral characters that pop up throughout the book. Nest's grandmother and grandfather especially, and not keeping the book soley told from the perspective of one character. At the end of the book, you really want to know what happens to everyone. There is the sylvan Pick, a woodland creature but in my opinion he was variation of Abernathy in Brook's Landover series.<BR>The author also blessedly knows how to write kids. He showed some great work in the Star Wars adaptation but it really comes across here.<BR>The foreshadowing power of John Ross is intriguing, but does get a bit repetitive. Still, he is a very enjoyable character when he shows up.<br />A modern day fantasy told by one of the best. Brooks does not rely on gimmicks and creatures but implements real and relatable people (and sylvans) to drive the story. Other authors of the genre should follow Brooks' lead and not simply stay in one world (are ya listening Jordan &amp; Goodkind?) I would love to see what he does with a collection of short stories or horror. <BR>Get the book and enjoy!	2003-11-27
US	45917952	R6HE5MS4H6621	0553133969	297304609	The Island	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Genre pulp and fun read.	Pulled this from my shelf when I had a seven hour flight and by the time I touched down, I reached my destination and finished a greatly enjoyable book. It's fast paced pulpy fun that's loaded with action. Yes, there are major holes and unrealistic circumstances. But think Clive Cussler, not Tom Clancy and you'll be fine. Benchley gets your heart going in the right places and at the same time giving you some great trivia about the Bermuda triangle and pirates. The characters are likable and interesting and the decriptive writing is wonderful. Keep in mind this book was written in the seventies and it does come across as dated in some spots. A staple in a used bookstore, it's easy to find. Grab it. It goes back on my shelf for another go in year or two.	2003-11-27
US	45917952	RCCY3WJNXVKNF	006093316X	259331386	The Great and Secret Show	Books	3	1	4	N	N	In the Middle	This is the third book I've read by Barker. The last one, Damanation game I really did not care for, But the Thief of Always I loved. This falls somewhwere in the middle. The imagery and fable like quality of storytelling work well here. Just like almost every other Barker book, it has a healthy dose of sexuality mixed in with gore. Barker fans know what I'm talking about. First timers may find it a bit much.<br /> Creating your own mythology is hard to pull off. Barker manages better than most who have attempted it. He slowly explains his concepts letting the reader digest what he is trying to get across one small portion at a time. <BR>However, the characterization is hit and miss. Jaffe, the antagonist is fully developed and Barker really makes the ambiguity of the character tangible and you feel for him. But you don't realize the \\"true\\" protagonist until a good third into the book because they do not show up until then. When it does happen, the revelation seems whimsical and I found it difficult to accept. Especially when he does such a great job with Jaffe.<br />There is a Shakespearian element to this book that works very well and should have been the dominating element to this story. I think readers would have been satisfied with that. The love triangle and the events that led up to it are fully realized. He had enough to propel his grand scheme with just that. But the additional characters, such as the reporter and his friend were gratuitous. Maybe they play a bigger part in the sequel called \\"Everville.\\" <br />I can see why people love this book and I can see why people hate it. Some great stuff but it's unbalanced.	2003-11-11
US	45917952	RFDV2STE49USU	0880387300	157059446	Shadowdale (Forgotten Realms:  Avatar Trilogy, Book One)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Stream of conscious fantasy writing?	I agree with one reviewer who says that the author must have played the module that this book is based on, and then wrote about the adventure. It a shame too, because the premise had some real potential. A pantheon of gods are cast down by their head honcho for being selfish, neglecting thier duties and most importantly, allowing the sacred tablets to be stolen. They must work their way back to the heavens and redeem themselves. Enter the band of adventurers who get caught in the middle. Just when I was thanking my stars that this was a not one of the countless &quot;boy savior&quot; stories, the author writes a mediocre tale with a scattered narrative. Giving no back story to characters or explaining arbitrary actions. They literally hop from one battle to the other. Do you know those &quot;Choose your own Adventure&quot; stories? Imagine reading one that someone has already done and just left their choices in the book. There is no through line, characterization, even the exposition is shoddy. Maybe I'm overanalyizing this, but these are basics in telling a story. The descriptive writing however, is very good. The author has a knack for conjuring up some great monsters and locales.<BR>This is a very juvenile style of writing. Great images with no real substance. Anyone who has had exposure to the likes of Brooks, Jordan, Hickman &amp; Weiss should stick to them. Ironic, because the latter mentioned wrote the amazing and highly recommended &quot;Dragonlance&quot; series also produced by TSR. It really too bad, because I was hoping for something along that level. But it's enough to give Salvatore's take on this world a shot.	2003-09-20
US	45917952	R27CESQ683BD6K	0553298038	220376309	Ambush at Corellia (Star Wars, The Corellian Trilogy #1) (Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly decent	A friend passed this one along to me and I took it up with some reservation. After reading it I'm now on board and looking to get the second and third in the series. This is not mind blowing by any stretch, but it was great to get back to and take a stroll through the Star Wars galaxy. The pace is fast and the action is well written. The author writes the characters well, treating them with respect but really not taking chances. With the exception with Lando, the choices made are nothing out of the ordinary.<BR>Based on the cover and the title of the book, one think that this is a &quot;Solo and Chewbacca&quot; adventure and from the start of the book it looks that way. But I was pleasantly surprised to find that it was not.<BR>It does however bring up aspects of Han Solo's secritive past and Allen gives just enough insight not to take away from mystery the character. The politics and the star system of Corellia is unique, straight forward and easy to follow and adds some great drama in the book. <BR>My only real critizism is that the author needs to hang around some children. Anakin is by far the worst written. Picture that forcibly cute robot kid on the sitcom &quot;Small Wonder&quot; written into a book and your not far off. While there is some potential there as far as action with Anakin, the dialogue really needs brushing up. He does however manage to make the twins interesting, giving them distinct personalities and abilities. Example: Jacen can understand Chewie, like his father, but Jaina can't. <BR>Also another thing that I loved was Han Solo's take on Indiana Jones profession. It too coincidental to be an accident!<br />A decent adventure that lacks the emotional pull that the movies and some of the books do. But a good distraction and worth checking out.	2003-09-18
US	45917952	R2SH90UQYSPFZ3	075092456X	204063456	Harold: The Last Anglo-Saxon King	Books	5	18	20	N	N	If your looking for a good book on Harold, this is the one	In terms of English history,not much is ever really said about Harold. Those who are looking for an informative and surprisingly entertaining work on the Monarch should look no further.<br />Ian Walker has left no stone unturned in the telling of Harold Godwineson and his family. Starting from his grandfather and father and ending with his grandson becoming the prince of Kiev.<BR>After reading the book, you come away with a sense of the time that he lived in and more importantly a sense of the man. Walker is also very good at surmising how certain decisions and choices that were made having an effect on the people at the time. Case in point the effect of how Harold's contemporaries veiwed his oath breaking to William. Few historians are able to do this. <br />The author does love his dates and locations, but he is very thorough when it comes to extended family. Also and most importantly, he writes with a point. Instead of going off on a half page tangent, Walker writes in brief and consise paragraphs. When a major player such as William, Tosti or Harald Hardrada comes along, he writes a full chapter.<br />I have been looking for a book on this king for long time and this has surpassed my expectations. A definite &quot;must-have&quot; for English Monarch and Anglo-Saxon enthusiasts.	2003-08-26
US	45917952	R3EYGON739PEIZ	0393324508	139199664	Porno (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	As addicting as the drugs that the characters are on	This is the first Irvine Welsh I've read. At first glance I thought I was rereading A Clockwork Orange. The slang is heavy, particularly with Spud's and Begbie's narratives and I had a love/hate relationship with it at first. But stick with it, it becomes easier as the book goes along and it makes for part of the books charm. <br />I would easily pick up another Irvine Welsh. This is one of the few books where the characters are so well written, you really don't care where they are going. Never once did I ask &quot;What's the point?&quot; Welsh has the ability to make the most unsympathetic of his mates human, and makes nothing black and white. No one gets off clean and the author doesen't apologize for it, which makes the book that much better.<br />Coming from someone who has only seen the movie Trainspotting and not reading the book, I did not feel lost. The book manages to tell just enough to get you up to speed. So movie fans should be fine. As it did with me though, the book Trainspotting is going to be on your must read list. I have read some reviews saying that this was not the authors strongest work. I cannot wait to read what some consider better. Now, if I only knew what Grassin' really means.....	2003-08-09
US	45917952	RM7Q50OHP4CKU	0349109435	52601737	Last English King	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Worth checking out	I got this as a loaner from a friend and can say that this one is worth buying. The story opens with Walt, a survivor of the Battle of Hastings returning home to his native England. It may confuse readers at first but this is actually the end of what happens at the story. One wonders why the author may do this but at the end of the book you understand. It then jumps back in time right after the battle, Walt meets an ex-monk named Quint and from there the story becomes two in one. The adventures of Walt and Quint journeying to the holy land and then Walt telling of his times as a bodyguard to Harold Godwineson, the defeated king of England on the Hastings battlefield.<br />Rathbone is good at making each character disinctive. Showing different points of view very effectively. But there is very little compassion to be felt for them and I found myself to be ultimately indifferent save for Harold and that was toward the very end. He does, however, manage to make William the Conqueror a comics relief, which is a feat. Some may feel a bit of trepidation after what I just said, but he balances it very well by treating the character with respect and it's a highpoint in the book. And the way he presents Edward the Confessor is, to play on the pun, divine. <br />Those who are fans of this period of history (such as myself) will find his conclusions very entertianing and interesting. Where he excels again is his narrative when presenting the battles both at Hastings and Stanford Bridge. Where the book drags however is the adventures of Walt and Quint in the holy land. After they leave Turkey, it meanders. They pick up various characters along the way and the author is blatant about embodying his moderatly interesting but ultimatley unnecessary philosiphy into them. <br />Despite the critisms, this is a good book and great historical fiction. Just be prepared that a third of the book takes place after the Conquest and out of England. Those who are fans of Mary Renault will notbe dissapointed. I'm looking forward to reading more of Julian Rathbone.	2003-07-25
US	45917952	R157ZAISJKNGYW	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It's time to come back to this one.	I remember being forced to read this back in my senior year of high school and hating every single word of it. Now, after a few years, and at a few urgings from friends, I find this to be frighteningly insightful and enjoyable read.<br />The syposis is about a near perfect world where everyone bioengineered and predestined into a caste system mere moments after the egg is fertilized. But that's okay because conditioning, sex and feel-good drugs make every one in this brave new world happy with what they are doing and who they are.<br />For high school seniors about to read this book, I suggest the best way to read BNW is to approach it as a thinking-man's sci-fi novel. No doubt your teacher will go on and on about symbolism, themes and messages, making the book more pretentious than it actually needs to be. But there is some great stuff to think about. For example, what I found highly enjoyable was the fact that this was written fifty years before the first test tube baby and close to seventy years before Dolly the cloned sheep was conceived. The narrative is contemporary and save for a few trips to the dictionary, no more difficult to get through than reading Sagan, Herbert, Clark or even Crichton. When it does get to the philosophic debate towards the end, it's too late and you are hooked. The verbal battle between John Savage and Moustafa Mond is fast, scathing and radical and presented in a dialogue that is accessible. I enjoyed this part much more the second time around.<br /> I leave it to the reader to find thier own interpretation of Huxley's \\"message\\". There is one and it's very obvious. But I beg you not to over-intellecualize the enjoyment out of this fine book. Highly recommended whether you are in high school or not!	2003-06-18
US	45917952	R29XVSD5LW6NVG	0553802488	607743484	The Face	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Nice stretch for a master of horror	This is the first Koontz book that I've read in a while. He's always good for a fast, tight thriller and he does not dissapoint, even at his most formulaic. Which is what really surprised me about &quot;The Face.&quot; It's part detective story and part ghost story. However, a more detailed premise can be read more effectively in other reviews, so lets get to the good and bad.<br />The Good:<BR>He really stretched himself on this one as far as style. The imagery that he writes with goes beyond that I've read of his and I really hope he sticks with it. This is by far the most macabre of his work. It may be a bit unnerving for Koontz &quot;traditionalists&quot;, but stick with it. This is one of the more enjoyable aspects of the book, and he should be applauded for it.<br />The Bad:<BR>This great new style of writing is more or less wasted on the traditional Koontz premise. Which is to say you insert &quot;and then there is this madman&quot; somewhere in it. Midnight and Phantoms among few others being exceptions. Depending on what you are looking for in a Koontz book, this may be good or bad.<br />The Good:<BR>He really has made a strong effort to flesh out his characters and make some real emotional connections between them. You feel the bond between Fric the boy and Ethan, the man in charge of protecting him. He also does the same with Ethan and his buddy Hazard, which if you read other reviews, is the favorite character in book. He also flawlessly captures the isolation of Fric. The son of one of the most popular superstars in the world. Look for a great scene where he watches one of his dad's movies. He does a superb job with this kid.<br />The Bad:<BR>It's scattered. While he scores really big with Fric, Koontz misses the mark with Ethans relationship with his &quot;gaurdian&quot; friend and his late wife. A simple flashback scene to establish the relationship and loss would have done the job nicely. But because it did not, you find yourself having as much attachment to this as watching something bad happen on the local news.<br />After reading the book, I found myself liking it. I do recommend this one and rank it as one of Kootnz's best. This is a great departure for the author and it manages to retain a fast pace even with the 500 plus pages. It's something he is known for and he is one of the best around for moving the story along. However he still lacks the emotional impact found in other writers of the genre. You wind up merely watching the characters go through the journey. Which is fine, but it would be nice to take the journey along with them.	2003-06-14
US	45917952	R2TVH2U0PD8915	0446603589	426701570	Absolute Power	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Top Notch	What really gets me about &quot;Absolute Power&quot; is that the premise while far-fetched is written so well that you don't question it. Baldacci manages to drive the story at a breakneck pace with highly realized characters and subplots. This is one of the first books in a very long time where I did not know what going to happen until the last page. It's a smart read without making the reader dumb. I recommend this to Grisham, Cornwell and Sandford fans. You really can't do better than this, you will love every page.	2003-06-02
US	45917952	R1TVGC7DY2DZC8	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Another fun thriller by John Grisham	The thing that I admire about John Grisham is that he has a way of explaining legal procedure to the reader that does not condesend and actually makes you feel intellegent afterwards. He did a great job of doing it in \\"The Firm\\" and now Grisham fans will be pleased by this installment as the thrills take you not only to the south but also to the steps of the White House. At the risk of not rehashing the premise and plot, I found some of Grisham's most colorful characters are in this one, namely the President and his Chief of Staff. Also a minor character in \\"The Firm\\" plays a much larger role. Both Tom Clancy and Anne Rice do this trick and I love it. Also his use of dialogue is amazing and you wind up going through a surprizing amount of pages in a short amount of time.<BR> <BR>The only drawback is the while the premise is unique it is somewhat flimsy. And while there are plenty of nail biting chases, and varoius twists and turns, I did not find myself becoming emotionally drawn to the characters. I know Grisham is capable of doing it, just read \\"A Time to Kill.\\" However the payoff is at the end. It really packs a punch and it made me want to read the book again. I have reshelved this one to make sure I do just that some time next year. While far from a modern classic, the book does what it's supposed to: Entertains you and makes want to pick up another one of his books. Good reading.	2003-05-24
US	45917952	R28PQ67P08JUPD	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun thriller that you can put down	This is the book that made John Grisham a household name and coined the term &quot;Legal Thriller.&quot; Mitch McDeere is a self made man from Kentucky who has worked his way through lawschool. A certain lawfirm wants him in a bad way and gives him a to-good-to-be-true deal. Mitch takes the position only to realize later that he should have heeded his brothers words. &quot;Nothing in this life is free.&quot; <BR>After reading this the second time in ten years it still just as good. The only thing that is evidentally missing is the use of the internet. But you deal with the missing technology like you would when reading an older Stephen King novel. The dialogue is quick and snappy and some of the exchanges between the characters make you scorch through pages in minutes without realizing it. This is better than your average airport reader or beachside novel but it's the perfect book for doing so. For those who have seen the movie I also recommend this one because, while the movie is good, the last part of the novel is very different and you do not know where it will go until the last page. The only small critism of &quot;The Firm&quot; is that Grisham tends to put all his eggs in one basket when dealing with characterization, meaning Mitch McDeere. You feel for him and can see the logic behind his actions. Especially the reason why, despite the warning signs, he takes the job the firm to begin with. But he is the only one. There are right turns in other character's actions that really don't make sense except to link the story together. Something that Grisham has obviously improved upon in future novels. But that aside, it's great reading and great fun. Enjoy.	2003-05-14
US	45917952	R25RNR9LGG6YBV	0345434110	241741985	Star Wars, Episode I: The Phantom Menace	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Better than average movie adaptation	You know you are in the hands of a capable writer when he manages to acheive the impossible: Making Jar Jar interesting.<BR>Terry Brooks takes time to flesh out characters and exposition. The reader is thankful for it, especially when it came to Darth Maul and the reasons why the Jedi Counsel had reservations about Anakin. Not to mention out of all the Star Wars novels out there, Brooks has been able to explain the force in practical and economic terms.<BR>The only downside: It's still a movie adaptation. No doubt those reading this review have seen the movie a few times. That's the problem. I found myself glancing over familiar bits of action in order to get to the exposition. The very same exposition why one would want to read the book in the first place. You will not be disappointed, enjoy.	2003-05-08
US	45917952	R1R7LX673BKRLI	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	3	13	16	N	N	To be fair....	If I was a high school student forced to read this and have to answer test questions on it, I would not think so highly of this book. However, now thirty and coming to this on my own I found a book that has righfully earned it's place among our few American classics. At first, Fitzgerald's poetic and economic prose takes some time getting used to. I found myself rereading certain passages. It did win me over though, after the first page where the narrator defines personality as &quot;an unbroken series of successfull gestures.&quot; He has other witty observations throughout and I was surprised to see how funny the book could be at times.<br />Symbolism aside the story is a decent, readable one. The premise is a young man starting out in 1920's New York after the end of Worls War I whose next door nieghbor is the self-assured but mysterious Jay Gatsby. This may seem boring to some, but I hesitate to say more at the risk of giving anything away. Trust me, there more to it. At first it meanders, seeming to string a series of almost random but interesting vignettes depicting the jazz age. For those who may want to give up on the book at that point, I say don't. Fitzgerald has been setting the reader up. The other shoe drops halfway through the novel. Also a note on the characters. Even though you may not agree what the characters are doing, at least it invokes a reaction. Which is more than I can say of the &quot;classics&quot; that I was forced to read in high school.<br />The themes in Gatsby are very poignant. Showing us how fragile dreams and perceptions, both self and outside, can be. And that sincere intentions do not always come from honest sources. Is this the &quot;Great American Novel&quot;? I don't know, I have a few more books to go before I make that assumption. What I can tell you is that I  has a pleasant time reading this one and see why many people think so.	2003-04-23
US	45917952	RCFNV7MDB9U6A	0345363132	74059498	The Sunne in Splendour	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Thoughts from the latest convert	Have you ever begrudgingly recieved a book from an excited friend only to become an excited zealot yourself after reading the first few chapters? <BR>This is one of those books.<BR>The best way to describe this book is daring. Before reading this, I brushed up on The War of the Roses. I'm glad I did and I suggest anyone before reading the book to do the same. By the end of the first chapter there is no doubt the author knows her stuff and takes you along for an amazing ride. Penman has the uncanny knack for psychologically dissecting each character and bringing them to life in thier own unique way. Working with historical fact, her conclusions come so effortlessly it borders on common sense. Most people will say that this is a book about Richard III. As far as the morally righteous protaganist, I agree. However, in this reviewers humble opinion it is more about a generation of a certain family with Richard III as a part of it. Family and relationships are major themes in this book. His brothers are as equally interesting and contribute just as much to the story. No character is short-changed. Especially Edward IV, whose standard is &quot;The Sunne in Splendour.&quot; Those looking for strong, atypical women can't do much better here either.<br />Sharon Kay Penman has given life to the War of the Roses with a passion few authors can rival. This one ranks in my &quot;Top 10 of all time&quot;. As I'm sure it will be with you and the friend-turned-latest-zealot that I gave my well worn copy to this morning.	2003-04-17
US	45917952	R2UO6UDQPU76EV	1568493738	129610266	The Last Plantagenets	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Brilliant and addicting	The last installment of the \\"A History of the Plantagenents\\" succeeds admirably. Costain has a way of transferring is love and excitement of a subject onto his pages. It's a method that has yet to be rivaled. He gives each character a distinct personality no matter how trivial. William Caxton being a prime example. About half the book is concentrated on Richard II, which is fine because most historians either concentrate on the Black Prince or Henry V and skip over him. Here we see a sympathetic monarch who was easily bullied and who made some bad decisions early in his reign. After Richard II, he continues on through the kings until Richard III. Here he breaks protocol and gives evidence in defense of Shakespeare hunchback, citing Tudor propaganda as the catalyst. Normally, Costain is careful to present detailed accounts of both sides to an arguement, but here he takes a stance. It is quite refreshing and readers will eat it up. Highly recommended as well as the others in the series. My uncle gave me these books and I plan on returning the favor when the next generation comes my way. Treasure these.	2003-02-15
US	45917952	R23WL1EI51VOIH	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good but not great	I know it's blasphemy, but hear me out! Did I enjoy this book? Yes. Do I recommend it? Yes. However readers need to be warned about the Van Helsing diatribes. Even those who are fans of flowery victorian prose will find this trying. It's this alone that hinders the pace of this book and had I been warned ahead of time, I think I would have enjoyed Dracula more than I did. That aside, let's get to the good points.<br />The journal entries as a form of telling the story are unique and work for the story. Stoker is quite capable of providing each character a distinctive voice making them personable and the reader that much more involved. Especially with Harker and Mina. But it can lag due to the reasons stated above.<br />Some of the scenes are downright scary! When the pace picks up, the descriptive writing combined with years of media perception surprisingly adds to the enjoyment of reading this. Not to mention Renfield is a force to be reckoned with in the book wheras he is parodied in most movies. I found myself getting goosebumps and that's saying something for a book written about a century ago.<br />And lastly the major theme of the book is a sheer delight. Science over mysticism. The 1800's must have been an interesting time. It's the century that invented psychology and yet people were still being arrested for witchcraft. This is Stoker's master stroke. He captures the excitment and conflict of these elements perfectly. More so than Frankenstein, which is more of a scientific morality tale. Here they embrace it and save for Coppola's half-hearted attempt, none of the movies have bothered to touch on it.<br />Dracula is a good book, but I just couldn't get into Van Helsing. Highly recommended though. A classic that captures it's time and doesent wane with it.	2003-02-13
US	45917952	R1T6LYJ8OV1MLP	1880216620	989514363	Speaks the Nightbird	Books	5	55	57	N	N	You will not be disappointed	McCammon fans will be surprised and entertained by his latest novel about a witch trial set in North Carolina in 1699. The characters are developed, it is rich in detail and the pace is quick. All the qualities that earned him such a loyal fan base are here. His use of dialog has never been used for effectively. Prepare yourself for some late night reading. Those worried that this is not a scary book, be at ease. McCammon creates some wonderfully intense and macabre scenes and proves that some aspects of humanity are more frightening than anything supernatural. In retrospect, it's similar aspects and the attention to relationships in his stories that made &quot;Mystery Walk&quot;, &quot;Wolf's Hour&quot; and others that much better. After reading this, I looked on his website where he states that he &quot;got bored&quot; with writing horror. This latest entry is a great way to cross over into historical fiction. I just hope his publisher and fans allow him to do so.  Great reading and I look forward to his next, whatever the genre.	2003-01-31
US	45917952	R135NRBT7XLOEW	1571780203	714807785	The Route 66 Cookbook	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Not Very Practical	While it does give mouth watering descriptions of dishes served at historic restaraunts, it entices the reader to want to dine at them and not cook. Most of the recipes call for portions that would feed a barracks. While this is certainly understandable for the eateries mentioned in the cookbook, it makes for frustrating conversions into family size portions for the home kitchen.<BR>However, most of the chili recipes can be frozen and are the best you will come across. Not to mention the pies are sinfully good! Ultimately best used as an interesting bit pop-culture history and not as functional cookbook.	2003-01-28
US	45917952	RKRH5PKG5VJGB	0674004582	48849855	Forces of Habit: Drugs and the Making of the Modern World	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More information than I thought possible	I'm an obscure history buff and when I saw this one it piqued my interest. This is part history, part science and part sociology and the author makes this a more interesting subject than I thought it could be. He starts off with what he calls the Big Three: Alcohol, Tobacco and Caffiene. From there he breaks it further down citing the most popular and not so popular illegal drugs. Mentioning natural stimulants that are unfamiliar to most, such as Qat, Kava and Betel and the very descriptive reasons on why they did not take to popular consumption.<br />Courtwright also doesn't fail to mention that, even though with best intentions, scientists  around the 1800's and the turn of the century were also responsible for some of the most addictive substances. Your jaw will drop when you read who devolped heroin and what is was originally used for.<br />Fun, informative, and mind blowing reading.	2003-01-18
US	45917952	RD6XONXY61FTZ	0684853515	692650386	Hearts In Atlantis	Books	4	0	0	N	N	His most thoughtful since Different Seasons	Anyone looking for the classic King scare will not get it here. However, after reading Hearts in Atlantis it will dawn on you why he  can hold your interest through 1,000+ pages of &quot;It&quot; and the &quot;Stand&quot;.  It's not his premise, but how he can breathe life into the  characters that he writes and make them relatable to the reader. There is a supernatural element in this but it is not the main focus of the book, which may be off putting to some fans. I found the second part of the book absolutely enthralling and it's about a bunch of college guys playing Hearts. Man, will it take you back, even if you went to college five years ago. <br />I was not expecting to like this one, I got this as a gift and havent been much of a fan after the Dark Half. Different Seasons and the Green Mile are the closest comparisons that I can think as to the tone and mood of this story. Very introspective. My only wish is that the author give his bullies from grade school a rest. He has put them through the ringer and it's time to move on. I highly recommend this book and look forward to reading it again in a few years.	2003-01-18
US	45917952	RS653NLTMV0UV	0684839296	659815894	The Serpent and the Rainbow: A Harvard Scientist's Astonishing Journey into the Secret Societies of Haitian Voodoo, Zombis, and Magic	Books	4	77	78	N	N	Rich and informative	I bought this book years ago and put it down after I realized it was nothing like the movie. Man, I'm glad I wizened up. The book saturates you in a country and culture where nothing is as it seems. Secret societies, Vodoun (as Davis refers to it in the book) and yes, Zombies are throughout it's pages. But what I thought was really interesting is when Davis talks about the history of Haiti. I could not get enough. Not only does he paint an amazing portrait of a remarkable people, but he masterfully takes you step by step on how the brutal origins of the country reflects it's modern day society and religion.<br />When he does talk about the Zombie poison, Davis makes it easy to understand how without giving specifics but revealing the major components. Beginning with a sound hypothesis when starting on his adventure and unraveling the mystery scientifically as the book progresses. He loves is terminology, but never does it frustrate the reader. Also, where he excels again is when he uses historical reference to provide many examples how similar or the same poisons have accidentally given the appearance of death in different parts and times of the world. Furthermore Davis explains that the poison is just a component to religious and social conditioning that reinforce the defintion of \\"Zombi\\". <br />After reading \\"The Serpent and the Rainbow\\" it will compel you to look up figures such as Macandal, Dr. Francois Devalier and especially Zore Neale Hurston, in which he names a chapter from the works of this remarkable woman.<br />My only complaint about the book is that I wish the author had provided a map. As descriptive as he is, it's hard to get a point of reference. One would say go on the net, but that's hard to do when your reading on a bus.<br />What I find ironic is that the movie of the same name glorifies the stereotypes in wich this book goes a lengths to disprove. But the irony within that irony is that if it wasn't for the movie, I never would have bought andread such a great book.	2003-01-11
US	45917952	RII0CU830LGA1	0425188930	942931748	The Damnation Game	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Strong beginning, but fizzles at the end	This book has an excellent premise, but poor execution. There are some great moments, the prolouge and Marty's first encounter with the Last European are classic Barker, however the book waffles and comes to an end without fully explaining some major points in the book. The story's major weakness is it's ambiguity. While I do appreciate that aspect in most literary protagonists, it's simply too much here and the characters are ultimately unsympathetic. Nice effort, but Barker has handled better in other books. Also the reader comes away a descriptive defintion of coprophagia which, please forgive the pun, may not be to everyones taste. The Damnation Game is very good macabre. But the book is all technique and lacks the passion found in Thief of Always and Weaveworld.	2003-01-10
US	45917952	R20FTPDFEDX1CM	0460872990	82761703	The Turn of the Screw (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Great Mind Bender	I stumbled upon this one in a collection of gothic hooror. Absolutely loved it! Knocked my socks off. Literary analyis aside this is a great story. I never figured a victorian novel to be psychological, but the author masters it brilliantly. He also leaves a lot for interpretation which makes, still to this day, great conversation. This aspect may frustrate some readers, but once I saw what the author was doing, I had no problem with it. A wonderfully creepy ghost story and a must for fans of victorian literature.	2002-12-19
US	45917952	R2ANDO87IYNIXQ	0553249061	243366250	The Man from Skibbereen: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Quick and Enjoyable	The thing that I love about L'Amour is that he is more of a storyteller than an author. His economic style of writing keeps the story going and the action fast. One can easily imagine him telling this story by a campfire. This is a fish out of water tale that takes place in Wyoming shortly after the Civil War. If you need a visual reference, check out the movie Dances with Wolves and your set. The characters are likable, Crispin Mayo particularly. Bar none, no one can write a fight scene better than L'Amour and he surpasses himself (at least from what I've read of him)in this story. I also recommend The Empty Land, The Walking Drum and A Man Called Noon.	2002-12-18
US	45917952	RDZ0M7INNLT9X	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Tolkein free review!	If one tries hard enough, you can find similarities of LOTR in the works of Danielle Steele.<br />I got the series of books when I was a teenager and this was the first of the genre that I read. Now I'm in my thirties and still pick them up from time to time. These books are simply good fun. The action is fast and the characters are great. I still have not found better authors who keep the story moving while establishing plot and background.<br />It starts off with a reunion of friends after a five year quest to find evidence of the old gods. This is a neat trick, because it establishes background and characterization by having characters observe each other, comparing what they were like and what they are like now while still moving the story along. They meet two unfortunates which is the catalyst of the plot.<br />They chemistry and pace is something akin to the old Star Wars movies and X-men. Meaning that each person has a specific use that contributes to the team and are more or less stumble onto the forces working against them.<br />But the best thing about this book. TALKING DRAGONS! For some reason I really enjoy fantasy books with these guys and the books run rampant with them. Yes, it's juvinile and I couldn't tell you the difference between high and low fantasy, but when talking dragons enter the picture, the book picks up in my mind. Sorry if I have spoiled anything, but the books ARE called Dragonlance so........<br />In summation: The books are good for all ages (parents, my brother started reading them when he was 8), the authors juggle ensemble better than a Guy Ricthie film and there are talking dragons. This book opens you to one of the most prolific literary &quot;worlds&quot; than has been the inspiration for 75 + books. Buy them and enjoy!	2002-12-14
US	45917952	R1ZS6HDN12FP2F	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Tolkein free review!	If one tries hard enough, you can find similarities of LOTR in the works of Danielle Steele.<br />I got the series of books when I was a teenager and this was the first of the genre that I read. Now I'm in my thirties and still pick them up from time to time. These books are simply good fun. The action is fast and the characters are great. I still have not found better authors who keep the story moving while establishing plot and background. <BR>It starts off with a reunion of friends after a five year quest to find evidence of the old gods. This is a neat trick, because it establishes background and characterization by having characters observe each other, comparing what they were like and what they are like now while still moving the story along. They meet two unfortunates which is the catalyst of the plot. <BR>They chemistry and pace is something akin to the old Star Wars movies and X-men. Meaning that each person has a specific use that contributes to the team and are more or less stumble onto the forces working against them.<BR>But the best thing about this book. TALKING DRAGONS! For some reason I really enjoy fantasy books with these guys and the books run rampant with them. Yes, it's juvinile and I couldn't tell you the difference between high and low fantasy, but when talking dragons enter the picture, the book picks up in my mind. Sorry if I have spoiled anything, but the books ARE called Dragonlance so........<br />In summation: The books are good for all ages (parents, my brother started reading them when he was 8), the authors juggle ensemble better than a Guy Ricthie film and there are talking dragons. This book opens you to one of the most prolific literary &quot;worlds&quot; than has been the inspiration for 75 + books. Buy them and enjoy!	2002-12-14
US	45917952	R2G2YE265RJN2I	0553274325	602609686	Johnny Got His Gun	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Powerful Literature	What can I say that hasn't been said before? There is a reason why this book has survived for more than seventy years and reads like it was written yesterday. It's raw and unflinching, fast-paced and angry. Most of the prose is stream of consciousness and I've never seen it used more effectively. However it does get a bit grating toward the end. What makes this book survive the times is that Trumbo never waivers in his humanity. You are constantly reminded of it, which makes Johny that much more horrific. We actually have rock and roll to blame for expanding our minds, because if it was not for Metallica, some may never have heard of this book. A classic that is not for the squeamish.	2002-12-12
US	45917952	R3SG8QNAY9MO63	075092179X	115911411	Thomas Becket	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Excellent History	What makes this book particularly appealing is that this was released after the authors death. It was the admiration and dedication of Mayr-Harting is resonsible for the book's release, and the reader is thankful for it. After a moving Introduction about Urrey and his love of Canterbury by Mayr-Harding, the book starts and does not let go.<br />This book is perfect for armchair historians who know about the martyrdom and wants to know \\"what really happened\\". It is highly detailed, but not to the point of boredom. And it is blessedly edited for a reader, not a scholar. While the author seems to have definite opinions about certain figures, he is decidedly neutral about Becket, stating events as they occur. But, after reading this book, one comes away with a much shrewder version of the Saint. It's pretty clear that Thomas knew he was going to die and he was not going away quietly. Even though you know what is going to happen, it actually builds tension. Urrey spares nothing as he graphically (and I do mean graphic!)describes the murder. Which brings me to my only complaint. The author gives and enjoyable and fascinating background to the four murderers, but does not give any information on them after the murder. Not even a \\"no more records are given after this.\\"<br />That aside, I highly recommend this book. It's a shame that the author is no longer with us. I would love to have heard what else he would have liked to say.	2002-12-05
US	45917952	R5B0PWXJ6E0A4	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	An unoriginal yet satisfying read	For those readers starting into the fantasy genre, this is a great book. If you are in junior high, this book would be considered \\"deep\\". However, for those past the age of twenty and have experienced other authors work will soon realize that the Young-boy-from-a-small-village-who-dreams-of-adventure-but-is-too-practical-to-leave-until-a-stranger(s)-comes-to-town-and-something-happens-forcing-him-to-leave-with-a-few-friends-and-he-may-or-may-not-be-the-lost-heir-or-savior-or-a-weidler-of-an-ancient-but-lost-power has been approached much more effectively by Terry Brooks and Terry Goodkind. The characters are interesting, but they don't grow. After 700+ pages, reading about the near misses and overwhelming dangers pursuing our heroes, you would figure that the wisecrack of the group would learn to shut his mouth. The author, however, is able to keep the story moving and the reader interested. Jordan is also good at throwing the reader into confusion, only to explain the actions later. Something of a cheap trick, but one of the more enjoyable aspects of the book. You can tell also that the \\"grand scheme\\" is not going to be explained in this first volume, and it is interesting enough to make this reviewer want to pick up the second book. If you have this on your shelf, or if a friend gives this to you (such as mine did) read it. But those looking to buy, there are better authors out there.	2002-09-14
US	45917952	R2KJ007153AEGE	0788193201	88511618	Antichrist: Two Thousand Years of the Human Fascination With Evil	Books	1	2	37	N	N	An interesting subject that reads like a boring professor	While the historical aspects of this book are interesting, the author expects you to know too much about the bible and religious philosphy and stresses signifigance without bothering to explain those aspects. It's almost as if the author is writing to impress his contemporaries and the vernacular is very onanistic. It's almost insulting. Imagine that you are in a very boring class, catching snippits of interesting info if can remain awake. Once again there are some interesting parts, but was ultimatly dissapointed after reading this book. This is not something to read if you are new or want to continue reading about this subject.	2002-08-09
US	45917952	RBVTQR88FSGJS	0671675621	5679789	Patriots: The Men Who Started the American Revolution	Books	4	5	5	N	N	This is what they should be teaching in class.	This takes you enjoyably, step by step through the origins of our nation. From the reason why Britian started taxing to begin with, all the way through victory and reconcilliation. This book is easy to comprehend without being condesending, and is surprisingly humorous. Some names in the book are very familiar (Washington, Sam Adams, Hancock etc,) and some arent (Otis, Hutchinson, Lee) and he treats them all very fairly, giving each a distinct personality. I recommend this to anyone who is interested in &quot;getting back&quot; to history. This author concentrates on the story rather than innundating us with droll vernacular.	2002-07-20
US	45917952	RCJ21YE0X9HSC	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of the better Crichtons	Even though the book is in the typical Crichton formula, (team of scientists suffering at the whim of an brilliant but tyranical techno-capitalist), this is a satisfying read nontheless. The action is packed, the characters great, the hypothesis amazing. His take on what we read about history and what may have actually happened should be a book in itself and is the humor that drives the story. I'm a history buff and I enjoy reading this authors work. It was highly entertaining to see Crichton's obviosly brilliant mind go to work on this subject. You can tell that the author had fun writing this one.	2002-04-13
US	45917952	R2WUSQW2S43OV	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The essential historical fiction	There are two types of Clavell fans, those who think Tai-Pan is his best work and those who think Shogun is his best work. I'm one of the latter. I'm not knocking Tai-Pan at all, it's a great book as well and should be read, but nothing grabs you and takes hold like Shogun. For 1,150 pages you are held captive to one of the most sweeping , grand epics ever concieved. The characters are fully realized and fascinating. Toranaga is one of the shrewdest characters in modern literature. Blackthorn is an excellent vehicle to enter a new world in which the reader is unfamiliar, and an excellent protaganist. I dare anyone not to go online and look up anything on medieval Japan whil reading this. Or rent a Kurosawa film. Actually you don't need anything like that because the descriptive writing is so good. Like the explanation of a tea ceremony or the chapter in the &quot;Willow World&quot; This is not for people who like a quick read. Be prepared to stay awhile, but if you are like me, you will love every page of it.	2002-04-10
US	45917952	R1F6YT5P8ENCX3	044021680X	718061775	Gai-Jin (Asian Saga)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	1200 pages that I can't remember	I would not go so far as to say I hated this book. It was just so inconsequential that there are very few elements worth remembering. There are so many characters thrown at you, with their 2+ page back stories, at the very beginning I found myself backtracking through most of the book. Who was that again? Oh! he was the delagate way back in...<BR>When the action does kick in, it picks the book up a tad and they are exciting, but over too soon and you have to wade through another 200 pages for anything to happen. The one character that is fascinating is Tess Straun, but she never actually makes an apearance in the book. She only corresponds through letters and is talked about by others. People who are familiar with the Clavells Asian saga, will remember her from Tai-Pan. It's a shame that we don't see the arc that this character makes for the shy waif in the first book, to the shrewd and somewhat domineering matriarch in this one. It is a good book and it was interesting while reading it. But after finishing it two days ago, it troubles me that I can't recall what hapens at the end.	2002-04-10
US	45917952	R29YBN9T080BIU	0671023616	602429584	Postmortem (Kay Scarpetta Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent First Novel	I read &quot;From Potter's Field&quot; first and really enjoyed Scarpetta. She is a strong woman in a man's world that maintains her femininity. She has integrity, a sense of humor and the reader can easily sympathize and relate. I don't normally enjoy first person narratives, they tend to drag the story in my opinion, but it's fascinating in this case. Cornwells prose through Scarpetta's thought process is genuinely interesting. Also a neat angle by having a coroner as the main character and not a profiler or detective. The &quot;Twist&quot; in the novel is simple and original.Great book for the fans of the genre.	2002-01-10
US	45917952	RPBPL363Y8VDL	034536046X	55924294	Shike	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Wonderful Surprise	I bought the two Shike books about five years ago and they remained forgotten until I dusted them off the shelf, peered curiously at the first chapter, and opened myself to one of the best books I have ever had the pleasure of reading. The first mistake one can make about these novels is the comparison to James Clavell. Clavell is good in his own right, but what I found refreshing about &quot;Shike&quot; is that there is no western influence anywhere. No shipwrecked sailor or trade baron's are found here. All the characters are three dimensional, living beings and the reader can identify with every one of them. Shea's vocabulary makes the medieval Japanese Zen ideal easy to comprehend and contributes to the story and characterization. Another aspect I found facinating was Japans relationship to the rest of Asia, which is explored fully in these books. The author takes you to China, Mongolia, and all over the islands of Japan. Anyone who has made generalizations about Asian culture will get a wonderful education. It's a shame that most of the authors books are out of print. He has the rare gift of telling a wonderful tale and exposing you to a wonderful world.	2001-06-23
US	45917952	R1ZHWL2MUW6IXR	0425100057	153620064	The Eighth Commandment	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Awesome Read!	I loved this book. This is the first novel I've read by Sanders and it's certainly not the last. The main character is immediatly likable and any twenty-something can relate to her. With strong integrety and a quirky sense of humor, she makes the book a breeze to read through. The mystery is fast paced and intrigues the reader with each new chapter. Nothing monumental or legendary about the writing. Just a straightforward, fast-paced mystery that will keep you company on a rainy day.	2001-01-05
US	45917952	R3V0J3IP0TYVL1	0451627318	720039201	Child of the Dark: The Diary of Carolina Maria de Jesus	Books	3	16	17	N	N	An interesting insight	This book is raw and angry, but a satisfying read nonetheless. Poverty, murder, fights and most of all hunger are the main themes in this book. But what keeps you interested is her wonderfull insights on life and her overwhelming love for her children. Toward the end it starts to lag, after all, it is a diary that was not meant for publication. The characters are scattered and it's a bit repetitive, but the important thing is she takes you into her world. That, in my mind, is the gift of a talented author	2001-01-05
