US	45924707	RKNGOWMRHUJSQ	B00005VXKW	120529078	Flight of Eagles	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Truly Awful--Three hundred page cliche'	I picked this up having read and enjoyed some of Jack Higgins' earlier works such as \\"The Eagle Has Landed\\", which was truly a good thriller.  This book is a fine example of what happens when an author becomes so successful that he can write whatever he wants and it will get published.  This book is garbage.  The characters seem practically lifted from Len Deighton's 'Winter' and every single situation is a cliche, as is almost every utterance from page one to the last page, which I arrived at with much relief and after much thought about whether the trip was worth it.<BR>The basic premise of this book is that two brothers end up on opposite sides in WWII (read Deighton's 'Winter') and supposedly are forced to work together to kill Churchill.  If they refuse, their snobbish and incredibly ignorant mother will be strangled with piano wire by Himmler.  The characters go through the motions like cardboard cutouts, except they are less realistic, and the plot is just plain inane.<BR>This is one of the worst books I ever read, and Jack Higgins should be ashamed of himself.	2002-01-23
US	45924707	RW9AYIVJCVMJM	0345359313	282852157	Winter: A Novel of a Berlin Family	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Masterful Historical Novel from German Point-of-View	Len Deighton is one of the few writers who seems to be able to dance from one genre of writing to another with total ease.<BR>Not only is he a great spy novel writer, but he is also an excellent historian and writes novels about war.  Unlike most Deighton readers, I find his nonfiction history and his war novels to be the best.  Deighton has spent his life researching history, and takes this encyclopedic knowledge and builds novels around three-dimensional characters that give that same history a very real and human flavor.<BR>The book &quot;Winter&quot; is about an aristocratic Berlin family. The father is a German nobleman, the mother is American.  The two Winter brothers grow up and take very different paths-the older ends up American, the younger ends up as a high official in Hitler's SS.  The book follows the characters from the birth of the Winter brothers through the last desperate days of WWII when each must face the consequences of his individual life choices.<BR>Highly recommended for anyone with an interest in the motivations of Germans in Hitler's Germany, and the fact that German feelings about Hitler ran from adulation to hatred.<BR>This is an easy read, very enjoyable, with believable characters, a fast-moving plot and lots of history.	2002-01-13
US	45924707	R3CQGKZMA3Y45C	0967057906	585170505	Battle of the WAC	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Story of Women in the Army in WWII and a Love Story	This is an excellent book about another little-known aspect of World War II and the 'Greatest Generation'.  Carol Hossner Bessey was a small-town girl from rural Idaho who enlisted in the WAAC, which later became the WAC, to serve her country in World War II.  This is her story- a story of the patriotism of a young woman who strived to do her part in a big war despite the occasional lack of respect from her male peers in the military.  It is a story of friendships, of the many different women Carol meets during the war years.  It is also a love story, telling the tale of the meeting and whirlwind romance of two young people in time of war who meet and fall in love despite the fact that the future is uncertain.  The book follows Carol through her wartime experiences Stateside, mostly in Kansas, and also follows her future husband Grant's experiences Stateside and later as a scout in the Battle of the Bulge, where he is injured, and in the Army of Occupation.<BR>Bessey writes in the spare prose of the newspaperwomen she has been for decades.  She captures the feelings of young women off serving their country very well.  As a male reader, I found it particularly interesting to read of the war from a female perspective.  The book would appeal to anyone interested in women's roles in fighting World War II and also to anyone interested in women dealing with adversity.  Bessey's experiences were not unique, nor were they action-packed.  They are told engagingly and honestly, with no attempt to build them up, and what results is a satisfying, edifying read that gives the reader a new appreciation for the sacrifices of the thousands of women of 'The Greatest Generation' who served our nation in time of need.<BR>The book is illustrated with photos that augment and heighten interest in the text.<BR>I recommend 'Battle of the Wac'.  It is not an action and adventure military history.  It is a perceptive and sensitive account of women at war, one woman in particular, and a valuable addition to existing military literature.	2001-12-26
US	45924707	RGDAOSK56DZGS	0897452178	957595423	Cradle Crew: Royal Canadian Air Force, World War II	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Book About Canadian Airmen/POW's in World War II	As a historian, I am aware of few books that tell the story of the air war over Europe from the Canadian perspective.  'Cradle Crew' is such a book, and it's a good one that I highly recommend.  Written by Ken Blyth, a Canadian who became the pilot of one of the youngest air crews to fly over Europe in the war (thus the name 'Cradle Crew'), this story tells of the entire air crew experience, from enlistment through combat.  But it goes much farther, for Blyth and his crew were shot down over Europe and ended up spending time in a German Stalag as POW's.  Therefore, the book not only gives the reader an excellent, well-written perspective on the Canadian aircrew experience in the war, but is also a memoir of a POW.  Blyth is a strong writer, and his story is engaging and never dull.  This is an excellent book, and an important addition to the literature on the air war over Europe.  It is invaluable as one of few Canadian books on the subject.  Filled with interesting and rare photos of crew life, aircraft, and German Stalags, this is a must-have for any aviation history lover, and should be in every Canadian's bookshelf as a record of how the men from up north helped defeat Hitler and save the world not so many years ago.	2001-12-26
US	45924707	R5543TQ0RJ7SP	0785812083	79792688	Fighter: The True Story of the Battle of Britain	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Must-Have Book for Aerial History Buffs	This book is probably one of the best air history books you will find.  It covers a specific battle, the Battle of Britain, one of the greatest air battles of all time.  And it covers all aspects of the battle extensively--the machines, the men who flew them, the other inventions that figured in the battle, such as radar, the tactics employed by both sides, and much more.  Some reviewers have called it too technical.  Not if what you want is a thorough study of a battle from every angle.  I found it fascinating and exciting reading.<BR>If you are interested in aerial warfare, this book will satisfy you completely.	2001-12-21
US	45924707	RO1HP6WRYQB0A	0375420975	449634161	Peanuts: The Art of Charles M. Schulz	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A Must for any 'Peanuts' Fan and a True Work of Art	I have loved Peanuts since childhood, and have an almost complete collection of Peanuts books.  Charles Schultz has always been an inspiration to me in my work as an occasional professional cartoonist.  Not only is Schultz unsurpassed as an artist, he is also one of the great philosophers of twentieth century life in America.  <BR>This book is, first and foremost, a celebration of the comic strip.  It is a work of art in its own right.  All the cartoons in the book are photographed from either their original drawings, or directly from the newspapers.  The reader can see the artistic details that Schultz has used in creating each frame in photos of the originals.  And the use of the original strips, with their rough paper and newsprint lines, brings back the joy of reading the comics for the first time in the funnies.  The Sunday comics are complete with the little color dots that created the color images.  There are literally hundreds of comic strips, both daily and Sunday, in this book, and they give a good overview of Schultz's long career. <BR>There are many photos of Schultz's doodles and rough sketches, of his desk and his artist's tools, early cartoons 'Sparky' sold to the Saturday Evening Post, early drawings of certain characters, some of which pre-date 'Peanuts' itself.  One can actually see the characters develop, artistically and as human beings.  Interspersed with the cartoons are textual explanations and stories about Schultz and his characters, including many insightful comments by Charles Schultz himself about the evolution and personalities of his characters.  Also included are photos of early Peanuts toys and dolls, and even these are photographed lovingly and with attention to detail and shadow.<BR>This is a magical book, and any Peanuts fan would love it and treasure it.  It is a book one can return to over and over to enjoy.  Leave it lying around the living room where everybody can enjoy it and relive the joy Charles Schultz and the Peanuts ganggave us for over fifty years.  Better yet, introduce a new generation of kids to the strip.  The Peanuts gang is a microcosm of us, and reading it reveals much about ourselves and helps us to look on life with tenderness and humor.<BR>Buy this book, read it, and share it.  It would make a wonderful present as well.  It is the best Peanuts book to date.	2001-11-23
US	45924707	R1N7KXAY62PBL2	0375756450	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not pure history, but more than a novel	If a reader wants to get a feel for Ronald Reagan, this may be a good book to read.  Written more like a novel than a scholarly history tome, in a literary style absent from most biographies, it allows the reader to see Ronald Reagan through the eyes of someone who knew him.  What gets confusing is the fact that though Edmund Morris did know Reagan fairly well in his capacity as the official Reagan biographer, in the book he gives himself a fictional altar ego and places him in the shadows of Reagan from college days through Reagan's final ride into the sunset.  Stylistically, this works.  As solid history, I found it lacking.  Any time you mix history and fiction, you are being less than honest with the reader.  Where does the truth stop and the fiction start?  Morris has made a valient effort, and on many levels, a successful one--he has captured some of what Ronald Reagan was in a way that makes one both appreciate and wonder at our ex-President.  He has also produced a brilliant book, stylistically superior to most biographies, very interesting to read.  I enjoyed the book a great deal, and come away with a better understanding of Reagan.  However, I caution anyone who reads &quot;Dutch&quot; to be very aware that this is a literary experiment involving history and biography, and not a biography in the academic sense.  It contains universal truths about Reagan and his world, but these truths are delivered by mixing fact and fiction, and in the end, this diminishes the veracity of the project.<BR>Morris had no intention of writing the biography of Reagan in this way.  He turned to it, it seems, in desperation, in an attempt to explain the man he had tried so hard to know and understand, when he realized that the forces which drove Reagan and his ideas were essentially mystical and unexplainable--to Reagan and all who knew him.  The man was an enigma, even to himself.	2001-11-16
US	45924707	R2NA7ADH8EUURR	0375756450	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not pure history, but more than a novel	If a reader wants to get a feel for Ronald Reagan, this may be a good book to read.  Written more like a novel than a scholarly history tome, in a literary style absent from most biographies, it allows the reader to see Ronald Reagan through the eyes of someone who knew him.  What gets confusing is the fact that though Edmund Morris did know Reagan fairly well in his capacity as the official Reagan biographer, in the book he gives himself a fictional altar ego and places him in the shadows of Reagan from college days through Reagan's final ride into the sunset.  Stylistically, this works.  As solid history, I found it lacking.  Any time you mix history and fiction, you are being less than honest with the reader.  Where does the truth stop and the fiction start?  Morris has made a valient effort, and on many levels, a successful one--he has captured some of what Ronald Reagan was in a way that makes one both appreciate and wonder at our ex-President.  He has also produced a brilliant book, stylistically superior to most biographies, very interesting to read.  I enjoyed the book a great deal, and come away with a better understanding of Reagan.  However, I caution anyone who reads &quot;Dutch&quot; to be very aware that this is a literary experiment involving history and biography, and not a biography in the academic sense.  It contains universal truths about Reagan and his world, but these truths are delivered by mixing fact and fiction, and in the end, this diminishes the veracity of the project.<BR>Morris had no intention of writing the biography of Reagan in this way.  He turned to it, it seems, in desperation, in an attempt to explain the man he had tried so hard to know and understand, when he realized that the forces which drove Reagan and his ideas were essentially mystical and unexplainable--to Reagan and all who knew him.  The man was an enigma, even to himself.	2001-11-16
US	45924707	R26EUGXHOXEZZ7	0684802317	327792241	President Nixon: Alone in the White House	Books	5	72	79	N	N	Amazing Look at a Fascinating and Enigmatic Man	&quot;President Nixon: Alone in the White House&quot; is one of those rare biographies that manages to capture the very essence of its subject.  Mr. Reeves, who had access not only to President Nixon himself but to most of Nixon's key advisors and confidantes, has written a book that reveals Richard Nixon's motivations and thus goes a long way toward explaining some of the strange things Nixon did as President.  What we see in the book is a man who assumes that all men approach life the way he does--and his approach is quintessentially Machiavellian.  Nixon truly believes that all men cheat, lie and are out to get him.  All is fair in politics.  By assuming the worst in others, Nixon guarantees the worst in himself.<br />And yet one catches glimpses of Nixon the man where one feels a certain amount of compassion.  Nixon was a melancholy and lonely individual, distrustful of those around him.  He was a politician who had an aversion to people.  He feels awkward in any social situation, to the point where his interactions are meticulously scripted beforehand on one of his handy yellow legal pads.  In one hilarious sequence, Nixon is up all night writing and memorizing a script for an &quot;off the cuff&quot; speech he is planning to give the next day.  What is amazing is that he does not see how ridiculous it is to be scripting an unscripted speech.  Nixon also spends hours writing memos to himself about how he wants to be perceived.  Each one of the memos drips with irony, for he sees in himself all the things that he is not.  One cannot help but feel compassion for a man so out of touch with who he is.<br />Reeves argues that Nixon is at his best when looking at the bigger picture, in &quot;connecting the dots&quot; of major policy decisions and their historical precedents as well as the possible outcomes.  This is the Nixon who takes the bold steps to open up Communist China and to bring a much-needed thaw to the festering Cold War with Russia.  Reeves also shows aNixon who realizes the disaster of Vietnam but doesn't know how to remove the U.S. and preserve the honor and dignity of the nation.  One must admire Nixon for his foreign policy successes and for his broad thinking in this area.  The book also paints an interesting portrait of Henry Kissinger, showing him to be brilliant but incredibly vain and condescending.  Kissinger spends a great deal of time making sure Secretary of State Rogers is out of the loop on every major foreign policy decision.   <br />Domestically, however, we see in this book a Nixon who is all politician and zero statesman.  He waffles on integration, does little to help Blacks because they vote 90% Democrat, and panders in the worst way to groups he believes he must win over in order to win reelection in 1972.  Nixon tells his dynamic duo, Haldeman and Erlichman, not to bog him down with policy details, then buries himself in such details as replacement shower heads for the White House or the clownish design for the White House security force.  We also see Nixon the bigot, saving his cruelest cuts for the Jews.  In these glimpses we see just how shallow and ignorant Nixon could be, despite his moments of greatness.  The last section of the book deals with Watergate and the events that brought Richard Nixon to disgrace.  It is not a pretty sight, and just goes to show how thoroughly Nixon was involved in the cover-up and how much he enjoyed the dirty tricks attributed to his campaign.  At one point, after George Wallace is shot, Nixon laments the fact that Nixon's men didn't think to go into the would-be assasin's apartment and plant McGovern literature to discredit his opponent.<br />Upon finishing this book, I immediately wondered if Reeves began working on a sequel, following Nixon from his resignation through his period of exile and disgrace to the era of his partial rehabilitation near the end of his life.  I certainly hope Reeves follows up, for the story of Nixon the private citizen in theyears after his fall from power would be fascinating and remains largely untold.<br />This is a good book, and I believe that both fans and detractors of our former President would enjoy it.  Reeves has not written it to discredit the man, but to try to explain him.  After finishing the book, I felt I knew the real Richard Nixon somewhat better, and that had Richard Nixon had a different take on the motivations of his fellow man, he may have gone down as one of our better Presidents.	2001-10-29
US	45924707	R2Y2CR3ZROLTCR	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ignore the Naysayers--"Wild Blue" is a Worthy Read	I will not echo the sentiments of many reviewers expressed on Amazon.com that this book is a poor effort and not worth reading.  \\"Wild Blue\\" is a good book, very much worth a read.  Stephen Ambrose is one of the best popular historians in the United States today, and has rightly earned his accolades with such outstanding works as \\"Undaunted Courage\\", \\"Citizen Soldiers\\" and \\"D-Day\\".  He has a dedicated staff to help with research and he tells stories that deserve to be told.  I would concede that the book is a notch below some of his earlier works.  However, I will gladly read an Ambrose book that is a notch or two below the classic \\"Undaunted Courage\\", because Ambrose is a man who can write clearly and with the human touch, a writer with  a passion for history, and who believes in honoring the sacrifices of our rapidly disappearing \\"Greatest Generation\\".<br />I have read extensively about the air war over Europe, am currently working on my own book about it, and I can attest to the fact that Ambrose conveys well the overall experience of being a bomber crew member in B-24's (or for that matter, B-17's) in the European theater.  I have always admired the way Ambrose can say, in a few well-chosen words, what most historians try to say in a long paragraph.  His writing is succinct and cuts straight to the heart of the material.  The respect and love he feels for the veterans of World War II is obvious in the way he lets the human qualities of his characters become part of the story.<br />In this book, Ambrose has focused on the B-24 crews of the 15th Air Force, based in Italy.  The 15th never received the recognition given to the Eighth Air Force.  The Eighth was home to some of the more glamorous aviators of the war such as Jimmy Stewart and Clark Gable.  Because it was in England, it was more accessable to the media.  For these reasons, according to Ambrose, it received the lion's share of the attention.  Most of the planes of the 8th were the legendary B-17 'FlyingFortresses', while the 15th flew the 'Flying Shoebox', the B-24.<br />He has focused on the crew of George McGovern from South Dakota, who at the time had just undergone a wartime transformation from young college student to young, married bomber pilot. Of course, McGovern would go on to have a distinguished career as a U.S. Senator from South Dakota and to run for President in 1972 against Richard Nixon.  Much maligned for his pacifism in the Vietnam era, McGovern was himself a decorated veteran of 35 missions, recipient of the Distinguished Flying Cross, and much respected by the men who flew with him.  This is what makes this study of McGovern the warrior so fascinating.  I was hoping as I read the book to find some intimation of how his war experiences influenced McGovern's personal and political philosophies.  I was disappointed in this regard, for the question is never posed.  One is given glimpses, such as McGovern's anguish over having bombed an Austrian farmhouse the very day his own first child is born, but the thread is not pursued.<br />I found \\"Wild Blue\\" to be an entertaining book and one that gives the general reader an excellent feel for the conditions faced by the men who flew the heavy bombers.  Ambrose captures the feelings of dread, anticipation, elation, and sheer horror shared by most flight crews.  He also delves into the dynamics that bonded the eight to ten men who flew together into a close-knit brotherhood.  These men might well be from all walks of life, from places as different as New York City or South Dakota, with widely varying backgrounds and aspirations.  The men of each crew would never have met or become close in normal circumstances, but thrust together by fate and neccesity, the crews bonded for life.  Many still consider the men on their crews to be their closest friends on earth fifty years later.  I have found this to be absolutely true in my own research and Ambrose conveys it brilliantly.<br />I recommend \\"Wild Blue\\" to anyone who wants to learn about the air combat experience in World War II and who enjoys the way Ambrose takes major turning points in the war and gives it a human face.  It is also an interesting look into one particular flight crew, McGovern's.  The vignettes taken from interviews with other 15th Air Force vets are interesting and show the reader that McGovern's crew's experiences were not always the norm and yet not too terribly different that most other crews.<br />For those interested in reading more nonfiction about the bomber crew experience in World War II, I would recommend books by Roger Freeman or Ian Hawkins.  There are also some excellent fictional accounts of the air war, written by veterans.  One of these is \\"Serenade to the Big Bird\\" by Bert Stiles.  Another is \\"Twelve O'Clock High\\".  For those who are willing to go to the author's website... there is \\"Petals of Fire\\" an epic novel of the air war written by a former B-17 pilot and POW, Herb Alf, that certainly deserves the audience attracted by \\"Wild Blue\\".  For movie buffs, there is only one great movie of the air war, and that is \\"Twelve O'Clock High\\".<br />I applaud Dr. Ambrose for giving the limelight to the men who risked their lives in the cold skies over Europe.  It is long overdue.  But don't stop with \\"Wild Blue\\".  Read more, learn more.  It is a fascinating tale.	2001-10-21
US	45924707	R8UY49HLBMJEY	1887905197	661257439	After the Liberators: A Father's Last Mission, a Son's Lifelong Journey	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eloquent, Tragic, and Triumphant: A Son's Search for His Dad	Bill McGuire, Jr. never knew his dad, Lt. William McGuire, an Army Air Corps B-24 navigator shot down during World War II.  Raised in the New York area by his mother and a stepfather who seemed to prefer that the young boy not remember his real father, the young McGuire becomes one of the collateral casualties of war--a fatherless boy.<br />After a successful career, McGuire by chance comes upon a website that rekindles his interest in searching for the father he never knew.  He not only wants to know more about the handsome young man, ironically young enough now to be McGuire's own son, but about the circumstances surrounding his death.  Thus begins the journey that resulted in part in this fine book.<br />&quot;After the Liberators&quot; is more than just a book tracing the search for the truth about the demise of McGuire's father and the rest of his crew.  It is at the same time a deeply personal memoir of the author himself.  The book covers virtually all stages of the author's life, showing brilliantly how the absence of a father shaped the psyche of the son.  McGuire tells the story by jumping from 1944 to the fifties, sixties, seventies--all the way to the present, weaving the different stages of his life together masterfully to give a clear and poignant picture of one man's loss and his search for what that loss ultimately meant to him.  <br />His descriptions of the crew and the final mission are masterful and exciting, and will surely interest any reader who enjoys reading about aerial combat and its effects on the young men who waged it.  But it is McGuire's reflections on his own journey that make this book different from most books about the air war.  We learn, as does McGuire, that his mother, a loving woman who was never the less unstable, is in the end another victim of the air war.  Her own dreams of family and future go down with her husband and his Liberator.  All she has to hold to is her young son, and she holds too tightly at times. <br /> Thedetective work McGuire engages in to uncover the truth about his father's last mission and last moments makes for absorbing reading as well.  Incredibly, McGuire wins a raffle and is awarded airline tickets to Europe.  With this fortuitous occurance, he is able to go to Europe to find his father's grave, and to visit the site where the plane went down.  He also learns of the kindness of the local German populace who gave the young airmen who fell that day a decent Christian burial in the church cemetary.<br />I found this book to be on par with several other excellent books written by sons of warriors.  It compares favorably with Jim Merrett's &quot;Goodbye Liberty Belle&quot;, Thomas Childers' &quot;On the Wings of Morning&quot; and Jim Bradley's &quot;Flags of Our Fathers&quot;.<BR>No one who reads &quot;After the Liberators&quot; will come away from the experience unmoved.  McGuire speaks for an entire generation of children left fatherless by World War II, and he does so powerfully, eloquently and without self-pity.  I consider this book a must-read by anyone interested in the air war, in the efforts of family members to search for their lost sons and fathers, or in the effects of war on children.  I recommend it very highly, and am certain that somewhere, William McGuire, Sr., forever young, is proud of his son's efforts.	2001-10-02
US	45924707	R2GXCCXSUG3XF2	1888363320	357713076	Surviving the Americans: The Continued Struggle of the Jews After Liberation	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Idealistic Enlisted Men Change US Policy Towards Freed Jews	This is an extremely important work, one that should be read by everyone who has any interest whatsoever in World War II in general, in the Holocaust and its aftermath, or in how the liberating American forces dealt with the 'problem' of what to do with the Jewish survivors of Hitler's death camps. It will make the reader reassess the accepted historical view of Americans as the saviors of Europe after World War II. Author Robert Hilliard was a young enlisted man stationed in Germany at the end of the war. Hilliard takes up the cause of helping the freed concentration camp survivors after attending a 'liberation concert' staged by Jews and hearing the speech of a Jewish doctor who has set up a hospital to care for the freed Jews. He learns that though the Jews are free, in most cases they have nowhere to go, no food, no medical care,and no clothing. Many are still wearing their concentration camp clothes months after the war ends, and some are even wearing the clothes of the hated SS guards because they have nothing else. In addition, Jews are dying with startling regularity at the hospital due to lack of food and medical supplies. To make matters worse, they must watch the 'former' Nazis who ran the country under Hitler resume their old lives, despite the evils they have perpetrated. Hilliard finds that American policy in Germany is little better than that of the Germans. Many Jews are kept in barbed wire installations, under MP guard, and have to try to live on 700 calories a day. They watch the former Nazis ingratiate themselves with the US brass through bribery, lies, and sexual favors. Hilliard and his friend Ed Herman decide to do what they can for the hospital, and this book chronicles their efforts. By the end of the book, they take their plea all the way to the top, and are instrumental in changing US occupation policy towards the freed Jews in Germany. Because of the actions of these two enlisted men, President Truman in effect reprimanded Gen. Eisenhowerfor his laissez-faire attitude in dealing with former Nazis and treatment of freed concentration camp survivors. The book is well-written, and could easily have run hundreds of pages. Hilliard has crafted a lean and powerful book. I hope that it will be read by many students of history, and I recommend it to any person who is not content to accept the sanitized, for-the-masses packaging of complicated historical periods.	2001-08-25
US	45924707	R3G4XJNP0D1BT1	1851457046	518881771	War Boy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Charming, Honest Story of England in the War Years	Too often we ignore the genre of children's books when studying history.  Much is the loss for us.  In his book, 'War Boy: A Country Childhood', British author and illustrator Michael Foreman tells about his early childhood years in wartime England with lovely watercolor-and-ink paintings and a simple and endearing text.  Foreman and his mother and brothers live in the small fishing town of Pakefield, on the English Channel.  On this section of coast, the British have erected coastal defenses, wired off the beaches, and encouraged all non-essential civlians to leave.  Foreman's mother, who runs a small shop in Pakefield, chooses to stay.  As a result, Michael's very early years, from maybe two or three to four or five, are lived virtually on the front of the British beachhead.  Many soldiers and sailors move into the village and surrounding area, and many of these men spend time drinking tea and visiting in the Foreman's little store.  They shower young Michael with the  attention they would lavish on their own distant children, teaching him how to act like a little soldier. Michael's growing up is at once idyllic and harrowing, and the illustrations make this point.  The paintings of the rolling fields and blue skies of England are alive with color, but so are the paintings of the Luftwaffe bombings.  In these, the terrifying images take on a surreal loveliness.   Foreman also saved memorobilia from his war years, such as the cigarette cards he collected that tell how to properly wear a gas mask, or how to make a bomb shelter, or the notice warning civilians to leave the area.  These add to the historical nature of the work. Foreman recounts, mostly in the paintings, the warmth and love of the fighting men--Czechs and Scots, Brits and Americans, who pass through his life in the war years.  Many of them, he realizes, would never see their own families again, but would simply disappear forever on some distant battlefield.  In fact, the interesting characters are whatreally give the book its heart and soul: the little old lady who teaches at the school and wears bright socks under her bloomers; the hobo who passes through and entertains the small boys,  the old man with the club foot who buys people's warts to make the warts disappear; a Cornish sailor named Pop, who takes him fishing, and many others. With this fine book, Foreman is able to transport us back in time to this strange, wonderful, yet deadly world.  It is a fascinating look at war through the eyes of a young boy. This is a truly remarkable book, suitable for children and adults.  Even if you don't have children, you should buy it for the magic of its paintings and characters.  I highly recommend it.	2001-08-11
US	45924707	R3GU6GVFVFON5X	188777601X	799385578	Black Hole of Wauwilermoos: An Airman's Story	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Powerful and Terrifying, This Book Will Also Make You Angry	Dan Culler headed off to war, the son of Quakers, because he felt it was his duty to his country.  He put love of country and the ideals of democracy and freedom above his own faith, and in so doing, ended up in a situation where he was abandoned by the nation he loved, and left to die in a hell-hole of a Swiss prison, Wauwilermoos.  This is Dan Culler's story.  No one who reads this will come away from the experience unchanged. No one will ever read about Wauwilermoos or the miscarriages of justice Culler was forced to endure in a typical history book.  The story should make the United States and Swiss hang their heads in shame.  The truth about some of the hardships endured by American airmen interned in Switzerland during World War II has been supressed by publishers and editors for years.  Dan Culler's book does a lot to shatter some of this official silence. The first part of this well-written, sensitive book describes Culler's training as a B-24 flight engineer.  It follows Culler and his crew from the States over to England, where they almost immediately fall afoul of the operations officer, who tries to appropriate their sleeping bags.  Failing this, the man makes sure that Culler's crew flies the oldest, most decrepit B-24's in the squadron, and in the worst position in the formation.  This is Culler's first intimation that things are not as they seem Stateside.  Their lives hang on the whims of higher-ups. Culler's plane, crippled by flak, limps into neutral Switzerland.  Life as an internee is not terribly harsh, but Culler takes the command of his superiors seriously--it is an airman's responsibility to escape and return to his unit to fight another day.  So he escapes.  He is caught.  And for his trouble, he is sent to a Swiss federal prison, Wauwilermoos.  Wauwilermoos is a maximum security prison meant for the worst criminals in Europe, both Swiss and those who have escaped to Switzerland.  Culler's crime-trying to escape and return to his unit.  He is thrown into a barracks which approaches Dante's Hell, where he is tortured by his fellow inmates day after day.  When he goes to the commandant for help, he finds his own government has abandoned him.  The U.S. military attache', Gen. Legge, has sent out a message commanding US troops not to escape, and furthermore, has decreed that any who try will be sent to Wauwilermoos, where the Swiss can deal with them as they see fit.  In addition, according to the U.S. government, officially there is no such place as Wauwilermoos, and there are no Americans held there. If not for a kind British sergeant who comes to check on his own nation's troops imprisoned in the camp, Culler would never have emerged alive.  As it is, the story of his incarceration and escape is every bit as intense and thrilling as anything Hollywood could concoct.  The reader is kept frantically turning the pages, empathizing with Culler and rooting for his success. Once Culler makes it back to England, he finds he has been abandoned again.  There is no such place as Wauwilermoos.  He has never been there, so he has never been a POW.  Therefore, he doesn't qualify for any POW benefits or medical or mental treatment for his many physical and emotional wounds.  He tries to continue in the military, first as a highly-qualified techinican and then as a pilot cadet, but all his attempts are foiled by the military and he is discharged. It is my hope that the reader's interest is aroused by this review, short as it is.  You will come away from this book feeling Culler's sense of hopelessness and betrayal at the hands of the US and Swiss governments.  You will be angry to learn the fates of the US military attache, Gen. Legge, who countermanded official military policy, and of the Swiss commandant of Wauwilermoos.  And you will be angry along with Culler as he attempts to get recognition and medical treatment for the hell he has endured in the service of his country--a country that, sad to say, let him down when he needed it. This is a powerful book, carefully and sensitively written.  It deserves to be read by anyone interested in the air war, in POWs and their fates, or in the strength of the human spirit. I recommend it very highly.	2001-07-18
US	45924707	RZWA4OMIIJL5K	0918837006	544261514	Munster: The Way it Was	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not Really Out of Print--There is an Updated Version	You can find the 'grandson' of this book available under a new name:  Munster: Before and After.  What follows is my review of the updated version.  However, I have read both and they are quite similar.  Both are outstanding.   The target was Munster, an ancient walled city on the edge of Germany that up until that day had seen comparatively little damage from Allied bombs. But Munster was also a key city in the German industrial machine, and on October 10, 1943, the city was hit by a massive American daylight bombing. The Munster Mission has gone down in history as one of the most brutal aerial battles in history, and rightly so. In 1943, the American heavy bombers did not yet have effective long-range fighter escorts to protect them, and the German Luftwaffe's best pilots still flew. Many would be gone within a year, for unlike the Americans, the German pilots had no maximum number of missions and instead flew until either they were killed or wounded or the war ended. On this mission, the reader is there, flying through flak &quot;thick enough to walk on&quot;, watching the lumbering B-17's tumble from the sky and looking for the parachutes, in the cockpits of American and German planes, in the streets of Munster below as the city is pounded by the bombs, trying desperately to escape from a plummeting plane, floating in sudden silence over the city under a parachute, trying to evade capture once on the ground, or trying to limp back to base in England as the ubiquitous English fog begins to hide the airfields. Eminent British historian Ian Hawkins, who as a boy watched the massive American B-17's take off from their base at Framlingham, has put together the definitive history of the Munster Raid. He has recorded the thoughts of individuals who were there that day, both in the air and on the ground, American and German, and woven their stories into an exciting, minute by minute account. At the end, he wraps up the stories by updating the reader on what happened toall the players in the tale after the war, if they survived, and the reader closes the book at last with a vivid picture of this important battle in the skies and the men who fought it, and a renewed appreciation of the courage and sacrifice made by men and women on both sides of the conflict. It is a moving, taut, detailed book, told for the most part in the words of those who were there, and is a must-read for anyone who wants to know what the air war in Europe was like. Highly recommmended and well worth the price.	2001-06-30
US	45924707	RKMU46GHAEXOF	0345283082	342522736	Flying Forts	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Veritable Handbook on the Flying Fortress	Martin Caidin's &quot;Flying Forts&quot; is an engrossing tale of the history of one of the great flying machines of World War II.  Caidin traces the history of the Fort from its original design and construction through its many modifications.  If you are interested in the history of research, development and production of an aircraft, then this book is up your alley. The story of the Flying Fortress in WWII doesn't start till page 163.  Caidin follows the plane through the war years, and ends by taking us on a ride in a vintage fortress. This is a good book, but has several drawbacks that could be remedied if the book ever goes into print again.  First, it needs an index.  There is no way to find specific information without one.  Second, addition of a small selection of photographs would be nice, although perhaps not feasible from a cost standpoint.  The edition I have is filled with pen drawings that depict all the major aircraft of the war, which is a plus. This book is hard to find.  I picked mine up at a thrift store for a dime.  But it is worth the search and I recommend it to die-hard Flying Fortress fans.	2001-06-16
US	45924707	R1NOS2CVEJNM6S	0440226481	547722131	The Mighty Eighth: The Air War in Europe as Told by the Men Who Fought It	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good, Solid Mix of Facts and Oral History	This book is a good starting place for those interested in learning about the U.S. Eighth Air Force in World War II.  Astor has done a fine job combining the recollections of the men who fought in the air or supported the planes on the ground.  He traces the history of the Eighth from its birth to the end of the war, covering events pretty much chronologically.  There is also a fine index for those who like to use the book for reference or research.  Mr. Astor is an adept oral historian and this book provides a solid base for learning about the 'Mighty Eighth'.  I recommend it.	2001-06-16
US	45924707	R3B61GQEB7OKK6	0897472780	971850100	Strangers in a Strange Land, Vol. 2: Escape to Neutrality	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Good book , but missing a lot	The story of the planes and men interned in Switzerland during World War II is little known.  Unfortunately, after reading this book, it is still mostly a mystery.  I congratulate the authors for tackling the subject, but their treatment is superficial, focusing primarily on the aircraft and only secondarily on the men who flew them in.  Though the book is full of excellent photographs of the planes that limped into neutral Switzerland, it does not examine some of the greater issues of the internees.  There is little on the way the interned aircrews lived while in captivity, even less on the notorious Swiss prison camp the Swiss operated for some internees.  The authors, who are Swiss, do touch briefly on the delicate balancing act the Swiss played during the war in placating their stronger neighbor, Nazi Germany, while at the same time staying neutral and providing a haven for combatants. One interesting story that is covered briefly is the fact that the Swiss, on occasion, did fire on US aircraft, and in several circumstances, that fire, whether from a Swiss fighter plane or antiaircraft fire, resulted in the deaths of American airmen.  There are, however, other stories of the Swiss escorting damaged ships in to land, or not turning rescued crewmen over to the Germans. In short, this is a good book, but it could have been much, much more if it had taken a multi-dimensional approach to the history of the Swiss internees and their aircraft.	2001-06-12
US	45924707	R2WR6540WV51SJ	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Six Lives Forever Changed by a Photograph	A chance shot by a photographer of the raising of the American flag on Mt. Suribachi transformed six men from different walks of life into American icons.  In this book, James Bradley, son of one of the flagraisers, traces the life stories of the men, the routes that brought them to the top of the craggy volcano at Iwo Jima, and how being in one of the most famous photographs of all time changed the survivors. Doc Bradley, the author's flag-raising father, gives the book its theme.  &quot;The heroes,&quot; he tells people, &quot;are the ones who didn't come back.&quot;  The three surviving men of the photo must live with the realization that the simple act of raising a flag has singled them out from the many, many men who fought and died on Iwo Jima and elsewhere.  Each learns to deal with it in his own way: Bradley by refusing to speak about it to anyone (when someone calls, the family is instructed to tell the caller he has gone fishing in Canada), Ira Hayes, the Pima Indian from Arizona, by turning more and more to the solace of alchohol, and to Rene Gagnon, who tries to parlay his slice of fame into a better life, pushed by his glory-loving wife. The book has several levels.  It is first and foremost a story of the effects of war on those who must fight it.  It is also a son's tribute to his father, a character study of the motivations of the men who raised the flag, and a gripping account of one of America's bloodiest battles.  It succeeds on all levels. The writing is at times sappy and repetitive, but this is none the less a powerful book and one that deserves to be read by all Americans. Bradley has written a fine tribute to his father and the other men who are immortalized in the photograph, as well as a fine war story.  The coverage of the post-war lives of the three survivors is equally interesting, as they learn to deal with hero status they feel is undeserved and with the lingering horrors of war.	2001-06-12
US	45924707	R929ETI7V2OGZ	1854095315	636255190	The Mighty Eighth: A History of the Units, Men and Machines of the US 8th Air Force	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Detailed, Meticulously Researched, Encyclopedic	This is the book to get if you want to really know the activities of the Eighth Air Force during World War II.  It covers the Mighty Eighth from its inception all the way through the war.  Arranged pretty much chronologically, the book is not a quick read by any means.  The tiny print and comprehensive detail would make slow going for someone just trying to get a general overview of the Eighth Air Force.  This is a book for the serious aviation history reader.  Written by one of England's top authorities on the US Eighth Air Force, Roger Freeman, this book is crammed with excellent photographs and stories of all the major missions and developments in the war.  It also has a beautiful color section showing all the planes of the Eighth, with an illustrated example from each bomb group and fighter group.  This is followed by a brief unit history on every group.  There is another color section on assembly ships, which have always reminded me of rodeo clowns with their gaudy paint jobs.  This is followed by a short selection of vintage nose art, an illustrated listing of all the aces of the war, and another illustrated list of Medal of Honor Winners.  The index is quite good, though at first a bit confusing as it is broken up according to names, places and aircraft and the listings are very specific (for example, it doesn't work for finding something general such as Switzerland). This is a high quality book, actually more of an oversized book than a standard trade paperback.  It has been wonderfully put together.  It is a masterpiece, the result of much painstaking research, full of excellent photographs.  Anyoone with a serious interest in the Mighty Eighth would find this book to be one of the cornerstones of his or her collection, along with Ian Hawkins' books on Munster and the 95th.  I highly recommend it.	2001-06-07
US	45924707	R29RPDPUB30KRQ	0738856894	977583742	Wing Ding: Memories of a Tail Gunner	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Great True Story of How a Baker Became a Two-Tour Tailgunner	I have recently finished reading Gene Carson's fine new book &quot;Wing Ding&quot;. As a writer and historian researching books of my own, I have been spending a lot of time reading accounts of the heavy bomber war over Europe in WWII. This is by far the most entertaining of the memoirs I have read to date. Gene Carson, air enthusiast, joins the Army Air Corps to fullfill his dream to fly. Instead, he ends up in the kitchen as a baker. Through persistance, hard work, trickery and a little luck, he is able to trade his bakery job for the more exciting--and more deadly--duty of tail gunner on a B-17.  Carson skillfully captures not just the moments of terror flying over Germany (in one case minus his parachute), but also the humor of life in the Eighth. Adding drama to the tale is the fact that Carson's twin brother is shot down and presumed dead while flying a mission with a different bomb group. Instead of going home, Gene gets himself reassigned and returns to fly a second tour of combat, convinced his brother is alive and that he will find him. To say more would detract from the reading experience, but this book is a great read, both from a historical perspective and for the interesting characters and situations 'Wing Ding' encounters on his adventures.  A warning: Wing Ding has its share of earthy situations, the kind faced by young men far from home, lonely, with normal hormones, and unsure if they will live out the month.  A PG-13 rating might be in order. Wing Ding is a winner in every way. I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the history of the air war, or how young men grow up in wartime. I look forward to Gene Carson's next book, which is underway.	2001-06-07
US	45924707	R23MOAMK7AE7J9	0399123725	480340749	Fall of Fortresses	Books	5	47	48	N	N	One Man's Air War: Reflective, Poetic, Scholarly	As a writer and historian who is currently reading one book after another on the air war waged by the 8th and 15th Air Forces over Europe, I am amazed at how each book brings something new and valuable to the rich literature on the topic. Elmer Bendiner brings several unique angles to the literature, and this makes his book well worth reading.  First, he brings the prose style of a writer and poet, content not to merely tell the story by stringing words together.  This may make the book a little less accessable to some who look only for a good story, but for those willing to contemplate the subtleties of language, the reward is great.  Second, though the book follows Bendiner's whole tour, it focuses on Second Schweinfurt, a particularly brutal mission, and Bendiner is not content to tell the story of Second Schweinfurt or any of his other missions merely from his viewpoint at the time, limited as it had to be.  He has researched the motivations for the strategy of daylight precision bombing, delved into the personalities of the leaders, both political and military, and, where he feels necessary, he voices his own thoughts on the wisdom or errors made by the men at the top who made the decisions that, one way or another, ended up sending men to their deaths.  Third, Bendiner spends time developing the characters of his crewmates, in particular his pilot and bombadier (Bendiner was a navigator).  These character studies are well-drawn and fascinating. Bendiner flew in '43, a year when the Luftwaffe still ruled the skies.  Fighter escort was primitive and extremely limited.  Unescorted, the B-17's and B-24's were no match for the fighters of the Luftwaffe.  Bendiner's crew had its share of hairy missions.  On one, they are forced to ditch in the Channel and float, seasick and with diminishing hopes, for hours hoping for rescue.  Bendiner has just found out he is a father, and his crewmates vote to try for England even though it would be safer to bail out or fly to Switzerland--the decision made by the crew is an unselfish one made so that Bendiner can see his new child sooner.  A touching scene in the book, and a frightening one, for survival was by no means assured and all the men knew it. Unfortunately, this book is out of print at present.  I found the copy at the public library, and I imagine any larger library would have access to it.  Also, used copies are available through Amazon.com.  I highly recommend this book and feel it is well worth the effort to track it down.	2001-05-21
US	45924707	R63W2NFQZO1YS	0941072231	412336682	The Wrong Stuff!: The Adventures and Misadventures of an 8th Air Force Aviator	Books	5	12	14	N	N	If You Love "The Wrong Stuff", You'll Also Love "Wing Ding"	To update my enthusiastic review of Truman Smith's \\"The Wrong Stuff\\" posted on this page, I must add that another book by a WWII veteran of the air war over Europe has come out that is absolutely superb.  It is Gene Carson's \\"Wing Ding\\", also available. Gene managed to get transferred, through persistance and hard work, from an assignment as a cook and baker to the more exciting--and also more deadly--assignment as a tail gunner in the early months of the air war over Europe. Both books capture both the humor and the deadly seriousness of the air war over Europe.  I recommend both very, very highly.	2001-05-20
US	45924707	R16JFFWLKPTR0X	0553267299	157993091	Black Thursday	Books	5	33	33	N	N	An Exellent Overview of a Historic Mission	In this book, the eminent historian Martin Caidin concentrates on one of the most brutal air battles in history-Schweinfurt. At a time when the B-17's flew with little or no fighter escort, and the German Luftwaffe had not yet been all but chased from the sky, the 8th Air Force launched a raid on the ball-bearing plants at Schweinfurt, Germany.  The result is a story that is at once tragic and heroic.  This is a well-researched book, full of first-person accounts of the battle.  It reads like a good thriller and leaves the reader with a new respect and appreciation for the brave men on both sides who fought their war five miles above the earth not so many years ago. Highly recommended reading for anyone interested in the air war.	2001-05-17
US	45924707	R25U8OFA6ABWUH	0312966121	650875554	Hostile Waters	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Forget Clancy--This is Real	The scenario: An aging Russian nuclear submarine loaded with nuclear warheads has a catastophic emergency near the coastline of the United States, only days before the Gorbachev-Reagan summit in Iceland in 1986.  Some men are dead, others are dying, and it is up to the captain to make the command decision of his life:  Does he save his men or does he obey orders from Moscow and try to bring the dying ship back to Russia to keep it out of the hands of the Americans?  Add to this an overzealous American nuclear sub commander who seems bent on causing World War III, a cast of fascinating characters ranging from the heroic Russian commander to the cowardly political officer to crewmen who willingly go into the reactor room even though it means almost certain death and you have a nonfiction book that reads like a taut, nailbiting thriller. The book was co-written by Peter Hutchthausen, former U.S. Naval Attache' to the Soviet Union, Igor Kurdin, Executive Officer on board the ship, and R. Allen White, a writer of thrillers. The authors interviewed the surviving crewmen extensively for this book, and one look at the bibliography and acknowledgements shows that this book was extensively researched.  The book is told in the typical military thriller format, with the action shifting between points of view of the various participants, Russian and American, in chronogical fashion complete with military time.   The book is even more interesting in the view it gives the reader of the collapse of the mighty Russian military.  The Russian subs are way behind the American subs in technology, budget cuts have meant fewer repairs and other cost-cutting moves, which of course further endanger the Russian crew, who live bleak lives on a remote base short of consumer goods and long on corruption.  One feels for the men who put their lives on the line when so little is done to ensure their safety or the well-being of their families. Tom Clancy himself calls &quot;Hostile Waters&quot;  &quot;one of the most fascinating true submarine stories I have ever encountered.&quot;  The story is much more exciting than the recent sub best-seller, &quot;The Desperate Hours&quot; by Peter Maas, and I highly recommend &quot;Hostile Waters&quot; to all readers.  You will not be disappointed.	2001-05-16
US	45924707	R56WMCJMNP5KU	0967578604	369485520	Prevent War: A New Strategy for America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A General's Plan for Peace-Everyone Should Read this Book	General Jack Kidd has written a very important book, one that should be read by every thinking American.  One thing that distinguished General Kidd throughout his long military career was his ability to 'think outside the box', and come up with original, practical and fiscally sound solutions to problems.  He originally showed his skills as a young B-17 pilot who rapidly rose through the ranks of his bomb group.  After the war, he continued to rise through the ranks due to his practical problem-solving and leadership skills.  When Gen. Kidd retired, he did so as a Brigadier General. In this book, Jack Kidd makes a strong case for the peaceful solution of world problems instead of war.  He spells out in detail just how this could work, culminating in what he calls his Starlight Intitiative, and I would not do it justice to try to outline it in a brief review.  The final chapter of the book is by far the strongest, and would stand alone in its eloquence and persuasiveness. Now past his eightieth year, this great American has left his nation one final legacy, and it could quite possibly be his most important.  He wants to see war as he knew it and fought it rendered obsolete.  Don't think it's possible?  Read the book first, digest its arguments, and then decide. As a high school teacher and historian myself, I have learned much from the book and have used Gen. Kidd's arguments to stimulate my students--the next generation of Americans--to think about a world where peaceful solutions can replace the horrors of war--horrors which General Kidd speaks first-hand and which he has dedicated his life try to end forever. I recommend this book highly.	2001-05-11
US	45924707	R3IUGRCNPZ2Z6O	0967578604	369485520	Prevent War: A New Strategy for America	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A General's Plan for Peace-Everyone Should Read this Book	General Jack Kidd has written a very important book, one that should be read by every thinking American.  One thing that distinguished General Kidd throughout his long military career was his ability to 'think outside the box', and come up with original, practical and fiscally sound solutions to problems.  He originally showed his skills as a young B-17 pilot who rapidly rose through the ranks of his bomb group.  After the war, he continued to rise through the ranks due to his practical problem-solving and leadership skills.  When Gen. Kidd retired, he did so as a Brigadier General. In this book, Jack Kidd makes a strong case for the peaceful solution of world problems instead of war.  He spells out in detail just how this could work, culminating in what he calls his Starlight Intitiative, and I would not do it justice to try to outline it in a brief review.  The final chapter of the book is by far the strongest, and would stand alone in its eloquence and persuasiveness. Now past his eightieth year, this great American has left his nation one final legacy, and it could quite possibly be his most important.  He wants to see war as he knew it and fought it rendered obsolete.  Don't think it's possible?  Read the book first, digest its arguments, and then decide. As a high school teacher and historian myself, I have learned much from the book and have used Gen. Kidd's arguments to stimulate my students--the next generation of Americans--to think about a world where peaceful solutions can replace the horrors of war--horrors which General Kidd speaks first-hand and which he has dedicated his life try to end forever. I recommend this book highly.	2001-05-11
US	45924707	RWKL3T7MVR0D4	0586054480	256816201	Goodbye Mickey Mouse	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A Good Novel about Fighter Pilots-Also a Romance	Len Deighton is one of the great writers of aviation fiction and nonfiction.  He spends a great deal of time researching his stories and it shows in the final product.  His novel 'Goodbye Mickey Mouse' is not a great book, but it is a good book.  Deighton, in writing the book, seems to have been as interested in portraying the love lives of American aviators in England as he was in depicting the air war over Europe from the point of view of P-51 Mustang pilots. The result is a somewhat trite love story--brash American fighter pilot tamed by straightlaced English lass.  The other love story in the book is a bit more interesting because it is more original.  The title character, Mickey Morse, falls for an older married English woman, and this threatens his dream of becoming a celebrated fighter ace.  There are some good plot twists in the book, and most of the characters are interesting, but the best segments of the book are when Deighton focuses on the flying and the military politics.  This is where he shines as an author.  The romance element is no better-or worse-than what you find in any book on a newstand rack and read to pass time on a plane or on a trip. The most intriguing character is the main character, Mickey Morse (known as Mickey Mouse), who grew up at a gas station in Arizona and is trying to improve his chances in life by becoming a famous fighter ace.  He hopes to get a job working in the air industry after the war.  However, he is blinded by love for the older married woman, with serious repurcussions.  His friend, Jamie Farebrother, is the privileged son of a business tycoon who has become a general to help run the war effort.  His father, who is estranged from the son but trying desperately to develop a relationship, is also an interesting character.  The British characters are less well-drawn, which is rather surprising because Deighton is British.  They tend towards cardboard cutouts and stereotypes.  Even Jamie Farebrother's love interest Victoria is lacking in depth. That having been said, &quot;Goodbye Mickey Mouse&quot; is one of the best books I've read for getting a feeling for what life was like on a fighter base during the war.  As a historian researching the American air war over Europe, specifically the 8th Air Force, the book provided me with some valuable insights.  To be fair, I am not a big fan of romances and that element of the book didn't appeal to me; however, I think most people might enjoy the way Deighton develops the romances in the novel, and the way he weaves them together.  Some of the plot twists are a bit improbable, but hey, this is fiction, where the author, especially if he is established, can get away with that kind of thing. Overall, an entertaining book, well researched, but lacking in depth of characterization as well as probability.	2001-04-10
US	45924707	R2GU386YVCT5NP	0917678494	10246357	The Munster Raid: Before and After	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Detailed History of a Momentous Bombing Mission	The target was Munster, an ancient walled city on the edge of Germany that up until that day had seen comparatively little damage from Allied bombs.  But Munster was also a key city in the German industrial machine, and on October 10, 1943, the city was hit by a massive American daylight bombing.  The Munster Mission has gone down in history as one of the most brutal aerial battles in history, and rightly so.  In 1943, the American heavy bombers did not yet have effective long-range fighter escorts to protect them, and the German Luftwaffe's best pilots still flew.  Many would be gone within a year, for unlike the Americans, the German pilots had no maximum number of missions and instead flew until either they were killed or wounded or the war ended.  On this mission, the reader is there, flying through flak &quot;thick enough to walk on&quot;, watching the lumbering B-17's tumble from the sky and looking for the parachutes, in the cockpits of American and German planes, in the streets of Munster below as the city is pounded by the bombs, trying desperately to escape from a plummeting plane, floating in sudden silence over the city under a parachute, trying to evade capture once on the ground, or trying to limp back to base in England as the ubiquitous English fog begins to hide the airfields.    Eminent British historian Ian Hawkins, who as a boy watched the massive American B-17's take off from their base at Framlingham, has put together the definitive history of the Munster Raid.  He has recorded the thoughts of individuals who were there that day, both in the air and on the ground, American and German, and woven their stories into an exciting, minute by minute account.  At the end, he wraps up the stories by updating the reader on what happened to all the players in the tale after the war, if they survived, and the reader closes the book at last with a vivid picture of this important battle in the skies and the men who fought it, and a renewed appreciation of the courage and sacrifice made by men and women on both sides of the conflict.  It is a moving, taut, detailed book, told for the most part in the words of those who were there, and is a must-read for anyone who wants to know what the air war in Europe was like.  Highly recommmended and well worth the price.	2001-03-31
US	45924707	R2E5K5632TK9G2	0595167039	806714919	A Wing and a Prayer: The "Bloody 100th" Bomb Group of the U.S. Eighth Air Force in Action over Europe in World War II	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great story of the air war over Europe	Harry Crosby was a navigator in the 100th Bomb Group in World War II.  He was one of the original members of the 100th, a bomb group that, because it ventured into battle with less training than groups preceding it, and because of its unenviable position flying in the lower part of the formation on many missions, suffered heavy losses and became known as &quot;The Bloody Hundredth&quot;.  Crosby uses his obvious skill as a student of the English language to recreate the drama, the humor, and the terror of flying B-17's out of East Anglia in the war.  He describes many of the historic missions flown by the 8th Air Force as an eyewitness.   I have read the book several times and it is good history as well as a good study of human beings and the stresses they face daily in war.  I highly recommend this book.	2001-03-29
US	45924707	RS447XRHM3JY1	0553211161	602341169	Leaves of Grass (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The Greatest American Poet's Masterpiece.	Giving Walt Whitman only five stars out of five does him an injustice.  Walt Whitman is perhaps the finest American poet ever as well as the most quintessentially American poet.  His poetry never dates itself.  It is as contemporary as if he just wrote it last week.  Walt Whitman's poems overflow with life and energy, pulsate with excitement, and contain deep though simply-told truths that rival those of any wise man in history.  Much maligned during life and after for the eroticism of his writing, he never let his inhibitions hold back his writing and thus it sparkles with honesty.  Walt Whitman was also a great patriot, who loved America in a way modern Americans would do well to emulate.  He sought it out on its own terms and recorded what he saw in his poetry.  His war poems, written during the American Civil War, are some of the best war poems existing in literature.  Whitman knew his subject, having spent much time caring for the wounded soldiers in the hospitals and visiting battlefields.  His poems create vivid pictures, richly textured, as real as you read them as if you were seeing the scene yourself.  And the dialog he carries on with the reader makes the reader feel that Whitman, if he were still alive, would like nothing more than to sit down and discuss life.  He is one of the few poets who manages to establish a rapport with his reader, to anticipate his reader's reactions and talk to each one through the poem. Walt Whitman should be read by any and every literate American. 'Leaves of Grass' will change anyone who dares to read it.	2001-03-29
US	45924707	R246WAH74M66RP	188209008X	945456483	Goodbye, Liberty Belle: A Son's Search for His Father's War	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A lean yet emotional piece of writing on War, Time and Love.	I was absolutely amazed that this book had never been reviewed in the seven years since it came out.  This is truly a magical book, one that would appeal to a broad audience.  It is first and foremost a story of the author's father and the father's 15th Air Force B-24 crew, particularly of the fateful mission during which their plane, the Liberty Belle, is shot down in present-day Yugoslavia.  It recounts the adventures of the Merritt crew after their rescue by Partisans, some frightening, some comical, laced with the uncertainty of the tenuous alliances formed by the different ethnic groups and their relationships with the Allies or the Axis, both, or neither.  But it is much more than a story of a bomber crew that bails out in unfamiliar territory in wartime.  It is also a detective story.  J. Merritt decides to seek out the old members of his father's crew, using old telephone directories and contacts, and also to find out more about his father's experiences after being shot down.  To do this, he tracks down people in Yugoslavia who in turn help him track down men and women who helped the young airmen after they fell out of the sky that fateful day.  He writes of the searches, the meetings, and of his decision to return to the site of his father's adventures of forty-plus years ago.  And this brings up the third story in this intricately-woven book.  It is the story of a son's attempt to get to know his father.  Together the two decide to make the trip to Yugoslavia together, and it is a journey which, one feels, will bring the two men closer.  Like many fathers and sons, the relationship has been frought with reticence on both sides.  The generational divide has kept the two men, who obviously love and respect each other, from forming the deeper bond of solid friendship. So 'Goodbye Liberty Belle' is much more than an aviation war story.  It is a story of a search for and reconnection with the past, of tracking down young men grown old and breaking bread with them.  And it is a story about a son and a father sharing an adventure that one hopes will bring them closer together. Merritt's trade is as a writer of magazine articles, and his prose has the polished, spare utility of a man comfortable with expressing himself in few words and gifted enough to chose those words well.  Sections of the book are woven together cleanly--a section on the fateful day of the crash flows seamlessly into a modern-day interview with the tail gunner long assumed dead, followed by a section on the trip to Yugoslavia the father and son take in 1986. This is a triumphal piece of writing.  It is all at once a great war story, a detective story, and a story of a father and son.  Merritt keeps the reader wanting to know how each of the stories play out, and he does it with grace.   You will love this book.	2001-03-28
US	45924707	RXCJ6VSWJO4NQ	0586045449	999720718	Bomber	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The air war over Germany-from both sides	In this meticulously researched and finely-wrought novel, author Len Deighton interweaves the stories of a large cast of characters, German and British, in the hours leading up to a night bomber attack on a fictional Germany city.  Due to crew error, a small German town is accidentally bombed by part of the bomber force.  The story revolves around the men who fly the heavy British bombers, the men on the ground in Germany who must deal with the carnage of the bombs, and the German airmen and radar men who try to stop the bombers short of their tragic attack.  Deighton writes that he read over 200 books to prepare for this novel.  He also interviewed many British and German veterans and civilians and flew in most of the planes described in the book.  The result is a book that favors neither side but instead focuses on the individual humanity of the characters, with all their strengths and weaknesses.  Thousands upon thousands of warriors and civilians on both sides died horrible deaths and in a war that was, without a doubt, hell on earth.  Though there is no glory in war, the book is filled with individual acts of selflessness and heroism that elevate the participants above the slaughter.  Their heroism is not without great price, though, from the fireman battling the blazes to the British pilot who fights to bring his plane home only to suffer a breakdown, and the German pilot who is being hunted down for disagreeing with Nazi policy. I highly recommend this book. It is a must-read especially for those who desire to learn more about the air war over Germany.	2001-03-19
US	45924707	R260GR6Q8NQSVQ	0201407221	444645743	Wings Of Morning: The Story Of The Last American Bomber Shot Down Over Germany In World War II	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Poetically-Told True Story about a Bomber Crew	In &quot;Wings of Morning&quot;, author Thomas Childers writes a poignant account of his uncle's B-24 bomber crew's experiences in WWII in the air war over Europe.  He traces their coming together as a crew, develops all the crewmen's personalities until the reader feels he or she knows each one, and then follows them on their final tragic mission.  He then goes on to investigate the deaths of some of the crewmembers, to find out how they died.  This gives the latter part of the book almost a mystery quality, and is well done.  The irony and tragedy of this particular crew is that it was the last crew to be lost in the War, going down shortly before it was all over and they could have gone home. This book is very similar to the also-excellent &quot;Goodbye Liberty Belle&quot;.  If you enjoy this one you will enjoy that one as well. I highly recommend both.	2001-03-14
US	45924707	RWWVRXSXLN2MB	0684839156	239502123	Clash of Wings: World War II in the Air	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Ambitious Overview	Walter Boyne knows his aviation. He may be rightly called the Dean of aviation writers. A former military pilot and former Director of the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian in Washington, DC, he is an author that I would recommend anyone who has an interest in aviation should read.  Not only has he produced historical books about aviation, he's also written some very fine novels about the early days and progress of commercial and military aviation called Trophy for Eagles,Air Force Eagles and Eagles at War.  He has also written a great book on the Air Force called 'Wild Blue'.  These I also highly recommend. In this book, Boyne gives a good overview of the air war in WWII.  He covers all theaters, recounts the classic air battles in the Pacific and in Europe, describes the planes that were used and tells of the men who flew them.  In fact, the book is so spare that it almost feels like there needs to be more.  For someone who wants a well-written, well-researched overview, this is the book to read about the air war in WWII and I recommend it.	2001-03-03
US	45924707	RBG4MGFYY62EV	0028811291	553925757	B-17s over Berlin: Personal Stories from the 95th Bomb Group (World War II Commemorative)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Air War in the Words of the Men Who Lived It	'B-17's over Berlin', edited by the respected British air historian Ian Hawkins, is a collection of stories told by the men of the US 8th Air Force, 95th Bomb Group, about their experiences in World War II.  It is a labor of love of the men of the 95th Bomb Group and a fitting tribute to their contributions to the Allied victory over Hitler in the skies over Europe.  The 95th is known as the first bomb group to bomb Berlin.  Early in the war, Hermann Goring boasted that if Allied bombers ever appeared over Berlin, his name would be Meyer-an obvious anti-Semetic snub.  Of course, by the time the B-17's of the 95th appeared over Berlin, Goring had pressing problems of a more serious nature--how to stop the Allies from bombing his cities into submission and how best to produce and allocate his own air resources. This story is told by many different men, divided more or less chronologically and following their progress from training through war's end.  The result is an excellent portrayal of life in the 8th, from terrifying missions over Europe to the occurances of everyday life back on the base in England.   The book is full of photos carefully chosen by Col. Ed Charles, the 95 Bomb Group's able historian.   If a reader wants to get a feel for life in a bomber group during the war, this is the book to read, and I recommend it without reservation.	2001-03-03
US	45924707	R1KWL0KPKLT8EW	0965523861	573404870	Serenade to the Big Bird	Books	5	67	67	N	N	A Life Cut Short, A Great Writer Silenced. A Must Read.	While researching a WWII novel and history book myself, I asked a number of former 8th Air Force fliers which novel about the air corps experience over Europe was best, only two novels were ever mentioned.  One, &quot;Twelve O'Clock High&quot; has become a classic. The other, &quot;Serenade to the Big Bird&quot;, I had never heard of.  I found a copy and read it.  Bert Stiles was a college student from Denver, Colorado who became a B17 co-pilot in the 8th Air Force.  His writing style is similar to Ernest Hemingway, probably because Hemingway was popular at the time Stiles wrote.  In direct, simple prose, Stiles describes the life of an Air Corps Officer, both on the ground and in the air.  He pulls no punches.  The death is rarely glorious, but the young men are no less heroic.  The theme of emptiness is played out over and over...empty beds after a mission, the empty hardstand for the plane that didn't come back.  Stiles was obviously a very sensitive individual with a gift for observation and description.  The book is short but very concentrated. Rarely does Stiles waste a word.  The sheer terror, the SNAFUS, the occasional funny moments, the doubts- all are described here. One of the reasons Bert Stiles' book is so eloquent is that his is a voice from the past--his usage and slang are from the forties.  It is a book written by a very young man.  Stiles finished his tour and took some time to write &quot;Serenade to the Big Bird&quot;.  He then volunteered as a fighter pilot, and was shot down and killed shortly after he finished the book.  In a way, this is as much a story of a life unfullfilled as anything else.  What kind of writer might Bert Stiles have become had he lived?  After reading this book, I was left thinking he would have become a great one.  This is his only work.  It is a must read for anyone interested in the air war and the men who fought it.  It is a must read for anyone who wants to read a great writer.	2001-02-16
US	45924707	RZC30JCDX8Q49	1854106805	645114571	Bombers	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Overview	This is first and foremost a picture book, as far as I'm concerned, and it is a fine one.  The book is chock full of superb color and black and white photographs.  The text is informative and presents a good overall history of bombers from World War I to the present, but with special emphasis on the flight crews of the big bombers in WWII. The author has gone to a great deal of work to find the right photos to accompany the text.  The book is high quality, bound well with sharp images.  It is a good introductory text but it will also be fun for the veterans of heavy bombers of WWII to flip through and reminisce.   I recommend the book while emphasizing that it is an overview and not any kind of exhaustive research tome.	2001-02-05
US	45924707	R1IRETAHVC4YP4	0941072231	412336682	The Wrong Stuff!: The Adventures and Misadventures of an 8th Air Force Aviator	Books	5	100	102	N	N	Enjoyable and Informative	&quot;The Wrong Stuff&quot; by Truman Smith is a memoir by a former copilot on a B-17 in the US 8th Air Force.  Mr. Smith blazes his own trails in this book.  He doesn't pull any punches about some of the screw-ups made during the war that cost lives, or about his own thoughts about the fact that every man involved in the war is killing other human beings.  The only way to beat a bad enemy is to be worse. Smith's tale is at times hilarious, at times tragic, but always entertaining.  He tells it in a breezy, easy-to-read style with plenty of wry comments thrown in.  Not only are the air battle scenes well-written, but accounts of his experiences at the air base in England, of his trips to London where his youth and inexperience hamper his attempts at finding girls, and of his visit to the 'Flak Farm' where he is sent to recuperate from the stress of wondering whether or not he'll survive the next mission. I thouroughly enjoyed this book.  As a historian and author who is researching two books on the 8th AF in WWII, I found this book really went a long ways toward explaining not only the horrors of war in the air but how the war affected the young men who fought that air war. I recommend it highly.	2001-01-28
US	45924707	R1NN7L16HW9E4P	0405121873	913690211	12 O'Clock High (Flight, its first seventy-five years)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	&quot;Twelve O'Clock High&quot; a Classic	The novel &quot;Twelve O'Clock High&quot; is a classic.  It is written by a man who lived the experiences he writes about.  I am a historian currently researching my own books on the air war in WWII, and the Air Corps veterans that I have talked to spoke highly of the book and found it accurate.  This novel is more than a straight &quot;Bang-bang-shoot-em-up&quot; war story.  It has plenty of action scenes, but what sets it apart is Lay's ability to get inside the heads of the characters and show how men react and intereact under the extreme stresses of battle.  The characterization is complex, the characters three-dimensional and conflicted externally and internally.  The battle scenes are exciting, the plot keeps readers guessing and turning the pages.  If a person likes a war book with a little more in the way of character development, this is for them.  The book is not terribly long.  It can be easily read on a plane flight or on a long, boring afternoon.	2001-01-10
US	45924707	RKEV11CLVXGM1	0760306508	713262756	Great American Bombers of World War II: B-17 Flying Fortress	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Recommended	This book is full of excellent photos of three of the main bombers in World War II.  It is set up so that each plane has its own section with a seperate author.  The text is good as an introduction but what really makes this a good book are the photos.  It's hard to find such a nice book at such a reasonable price and I recommend it.	2001-01-04
