US	45990772	R1C98SVT71Q2D9	0066212405	673679314	The Dream Room	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An enigmatic boyhood	It's the 1960s. David Speijir, 12 years old, is living at home with his parents in the Netherlands. David's first love is cooking. His father is a former pilot; his mother a nurse. With money tight, the entire family begins assembling model airplanes for sale. While David is aware of the growing tension between his parents, he is powerless to prevent it, powerless to avert the bitterly stormy coastal night when it all comes apart.<br />THE DREAM ROOM isn't an easy novel to understand. It's hardly more than a hundred pages long and the author, Moring, employs a minimalist style, telling much of the story without using words. The ambiguous ending, set years later in the 1990s, raises as many questions as it answers. I came away from the book uncertain, confused, not sure whether my desire for resolution was simply a failure on my part to understand what Moring had created, or a failure on his part to properly create it. My overall impression is of a coming-of-age story, a tale that uses the enigmatic to highlight how seldom life turns out the way we expect. And perhaps also the story's theme is about our dreams, about the way they affect us without our even knowing it.<br />Because I didn't fully understand THE DREAM ROOM, I was at a loss to rate it. I finally settled on four stars because the novel was well written enough that I was bothered by the perplexity. Had it been a failure, I would not have given it a second thought.	2003-05-25
US	45990772	R1I2FLW7PXRW4	0743244249	195828381	Cosmopolis: A Novel	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Bleakly uninspired	Eric Parker, 28 years old and a billionaire asset manager, is on his way across Manhattan in his luxurious white stretch limo to get his hair cut. He's also betting against the yen. While he loses catastrophic amounts of money, he is visited en route by various advisers of the financial and technological scene, as well as by a physician (who confirms his nagging fears: his prostate is asymmetrical). He also makes several stops along the way, sometimes in order to rendezvous with his wife of three weeks, Elise Shifrin, the poetess (who, incidentally, keeps popping up in unexpected places), sometimes in order to have sex with various other women. His progress is halted at first by a presidential procession, later by a disastrous political demonstration, and finally by a dead rapper's funeral. As the day progresses into evening and Eric's situation becomes more and more unglued, he witnesses events on his spycam before they actually occur. Then he learns from his primary bodyguard, Torval, that there is a credible threat against his person. A famous pastry stalker nails him in the face with a pie. He takes part in a scene involving hundreds of nude people being filmed for a movie. The more he loses, the freer he feels, leading him to set himself up for his own surreal meltdown.<br />Post-modern is the word that popped into my mind as I read COSMOPOLIS, except that DeLillo doesn't quite manage to pull off post-modern. While this book wasn't as bad as I expected after reading some of the other reviews, it was still remarkably flat, toneless. A typical slice of conversation: \\"Yes. But I'm feeling a change. I'm making a change. Did you look at the menu? They have green tea ice cream. This is something you might like. People change. I know what's important now.\\" Eric is a one-dimensional guy and his mental ramblings, as succinct as they may be, don't convey much of a sense of anything. While the theme -- the chaotic and unconformed will prevail -- is highlighted in a somewhat amusing manner (by the asymmetrical prostate, nonetheless), and while several portions of the book -- the burning man, the conversation during the doctor's examination, and the entire last chapter -- were sufficiently unsettling to cause me to think twice about them, my overall impression is of a forced, uninspired tale with dead details, dreadful dialogue, and cardboard characters. But the prose, at least, was above ordinary, unaffected and remote. And the ending actually worked -- enough so that I wish I could give this book three and a half stars instead of just three.<br />Impressive, COSMOPOLIS is certainly not. But there are enough (albiet faint) flashes of brilliance in this uncomfortably sterile book that I'm going to look up DeLillo's older work, and, if you haven't already, I can suggest you do so too.hat amusing manner (by the asymmetrical prostate, nonetheless), and while several portions of the book -- the burning man, the conversation during the doctor's examination, and the entire last chapter -- were sufficiently unsettling to cause me to think twice about them, my overall impression is of a forced, uninspired tale with dead details, dreadful dialogue, and cardboard characters. But the prose, at least, was above ordinary, unaffected and remote. And the ending actually worked -- enough so that I wish I could give this book three and a half stars instead of just three. <br />Impressive, COSMOPOLIS is certainly not. But there are enough (albiet faint) flashes of brilliance in this uncomfortably sterile book that I'm going to look up DeLillo's older work, and, if you haven't already, I can suggest you do so too.	2003-05-13
US	45990772	R19841C1MZ4GS3	0312291469	745991063	Infidelity for First-Time Fathers	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Leaves a bad aftertaste	Stewart Dagman (Dag), a mid thirties British bloke, is engaged to be married to his live-in girlfriend of ten years, Andrea Ellis. And guess what? She's pregnant. But Dag also has this fresh young \\"bit on the side,\\" Cat Gray, and guess what? She's pregnant too. So what's a guy to do?<br />On one hand, I found INFIDELITY FOR FIRST-TIME FATHERS side splittingly funny -- even the thoroughly British parts that a poor American like me didn't get. Dag is being assailed by a fiancee whose desire for the physical is much greater than his own, and Barrowcliffe does a hilarious job of describing the way men in their thirties and forties are continually cruising for women in their twenties. The story is a comic roller-coaster, the reader propelled from one twist to the next. I don't think there's a single potential turn that Barrowcliffe failed to make, except for the one at the end. There he crashed.<br />Which brings me to the part that isn't funny: The entire plot. It could have been an interesting (and yes, still funny) tale of a guy's attempt to do the right thing, but Dag doesn't hold up his end of the deal. He comes across incredibly selfish and unlikable, which would be fine if he wasn't the lead character, but he is, and three hundred some pages in his whiny company are enough to kill any joke and completely total any \\"deeper meaning\\" the story might have fostered. His slapstick conversations with his best friend, Henderson, don't improve matters. Basically the reading experience consists of following an immature guy through a series of incomplete breakups and near misses while he makes sometimes apropos, sometimes totally nutty comments about everything from politics to relationships (what else?) to dealing with your in-laws. And the thugs? The electronic surveillance? The births? Can we strain credulity any further?<br />When I first read INFIDELITY FOR FIRST-TIME FATHERS, I laughed. I fully admit I laughed. But I'm not laughing now.	2003-05-08
US	45990772	R2WNOWD0B06HEJ	0736640401	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	5	183	190	N	N	I'm still screaming	THE UNCONSOLED is the most frustrating book I've ever read. It's also one of the most rewarding. It wasn't until I reached the end that I began to understand it, and I would never have reached the end at all if I hadn't listened to the audio version. David Case delivers an excellent narration, his calm, dry approach highlighting the emotions in each situation and his analytical, english accent well suited to the book's formal, elaborate tone.<br />Mr. Ryder, a world renowned pianist, has just arrived in an unidentified city for reasons he can no longer remember, except it seems he has some moral duty to help the city's occupants and he is to give a concert and speech on the coming Thursday night. Since Case uses a slightly Germanic accent for the city's people, one can assume the unnamed city is in Germany. The city is apparently a cultural and musical center that has fallen on hard times after idolizing the wrong musician and now has its hope of redemption pinned on another, ailing musician, Mr. Leo Brodsky. The entire city is coddling Brodsky along in the hopes he will manage a spectacular performance on this important Thursday night.<br />Every character Ryder encounters greets him most obsequiously while begging of him some small favor -- critiquing a piano piece, visiting a particular restaurant, studying some albums -- until he (and the reader) is overcome with exhaustion. Yet Ryder always feels the need to listen to these longwinded concerns and to try to offer some help, for he has both the sense of having been brought here to make things right and of his own overblown self importance. Although he feels a stranger to these people, it becomes obvious he isn't -- he has been to this city before and has a life with a woman, Sophie, and her small boy, Boris.<br />Ryder isn't suffering from amnesia exactly. Sometimes he can remember things. Sometimes he can't. Sometimes his memories change. Often they are distorted, such as when he believes his motel room is actually his old bedroom or an old abandoned car he finds is actually his family's vehicle from his childhood. At other times memories will come back to him in the strangest ways, for occurances he did not personally witness.<br />Time is badly warped -- thirty minute discussions take place during ten minute trips -- and all the while there is a terrible sense of urgency, of always being too late or in the wrong place or unable to get from here to there. Often Ryder finds himself back where he started, even though he traveled a long way from point A to B. Doors in dinner halls open back into his hotel; during a lunch date he discovers he's in the same cafe where he ate breakfast. Farms and forests and grassy hills with huts appear in the middle of the city. Once a brick wall blocks his path, built right across the road for no apparent reason. At one point Ryder wears a dressing robe to an evening party, yet no one notices (even when it falls open). The people are too involved in a discussion concerning Mr. Brodsky's dead dog.<br />As the sense of rush and desperation increased, I got the feeling the whole book was a maze from which Ryder (and, incidentally I) could not escape. It reads like one of those nightmares where you're moving in slow motion, unable to stop the events around you, unable to speak, powerless to reach your destination. And, as in those nightmares, people from the past keep cropping up where they have no reason to be. Ryder's old schoolmates, his childhood girlfriend, they show up with their own curious demands. In fact, everyone Ryder meets becomes more and more demanding of him, while seemingly unaware of it. Their moods shift rapidly (so do Ryder's), and while they view Ryder as a god-like figure, they also seem to secretly despise him and be laughing at him, as when he is in the company of a journalist and photographer and the two shout over his head to each other about how vain and conceited he is. Incidentally, Ryder hears everything they say,then proceeds to do exactly what they have just predicted he would. As the book progressed I grew to dislike Ryder intensely, especially for his willingness to give other people advice that he could not follow himself and for his totally callous treatment of Boris.<br />By the end of the book it seemed to me that certain people -- Boris; the hotel manager's twenty-some-year-old son, Stephan; and Mr. Brodsky -- represent Ryder himself at different periods in his life (this somewhat explains the unreliable narration). Boris is struggling to attract his father's attention, Stephan is struggling with parents who refuse to recognize his musical gifts, Brodsky has reached the end of his career, a shell of former glory. The entire story seems to be a dreamlike life journey, a fusion of past and future events into one surreal present. I found the ending incredibly sad; I was touched by the way Ishiguro highlights the futility of life, the farce lying beneath every society, the way people do not want to change.<br />Rating THE UNCONSOLED is difficult. If I judge it by how boring and frustrating certain portions were, it gets two stars. But if I judge it by what Ishiguro ultimately accomplished, it gets five stars. Because the ending brought it all together for me, I have settled on the latter, a hopefully fair rating for a book I will never read again, but one I will certainly never forget.then proceeds to do exactly what they have just predicted he would. As the book progressed I grew to dislike Ryder intensely, especially for his willingness to give other people advice that he could not follow himself and for his totally callous treatment of Boris.<br />By the end of the book it seemed to me that certain people -- Boris; the hotel manager's twenty-some-year-old son, Stephan; and Mr. Brodsky -- represent Ryder himself at different periods in his life (this somewhat explains the unreliable narration). Boris is struggling to attract his father's attention, Stephan is struggling with parents who refuse to recognize his musical gifts, Brodsky has reached the end of his career, a shell of former glory. The entire story seems to be a dreamlike life journey, a fusion of past and future events into one surreal present. I found the ending incredibly sad; I was touched by the way Ishiguro highlights the futility of life, the farce lying beneath every society, the way people do not want to change.<br />Rating THE UNCONSOLED is difficult. If I judge it by how boring and frustrating certain portions were, it gets two stars. But if I judge it by what Ishiguro ultimately accomplished, it gets five stars. Because the ending brought it all together for me, I have settled on the latter, a hopefully fair rating for a book I will never read again, but one I will certainly never forget.	2003-05-06
US	45990772	R2QWCWTR4WXIK5	0375416188	621917476	Dr. Death (Alex Delaware, No. 14)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good thing gone sour	Eldon Mate, the Dr. Death who sends weary travelers on their way out of life with the help of a few injections, is found trussed up and dead in the back of his own euthanasia van. It's up to psychologist Alex Delaware and his buddy, LAPD gay cop Milo, to find out who took it upon themselves to put Dr. Death out of his pain.<br />While I try to be a moderately enthusiastic fan of the Alex Delaware series, DR. DEATH did nothing to encourage me. The prose was dry, the plot lagging, the characters forced. Kellerman seemed to feel the need to have Alex come up with a million possible scenerios for who could have done the killing, then go about disproving them all. Alex and Milo end up working at cross purposes part of the time (frankly, any time Milo is pulled from this series it suffers greatly), and Robin (Alex's longtime girlfriend) failed to make up for the lack. Yes, there is an interesting subplot that serves to nicely complicate things and I did enjoy the parts where Alex conducts actual sessions with patients (although I can't quite figure out what he accomplishes), but there are far too many detailed descriptions of Los Angeles locale and far too many of Alex's diced thoughts for me to truly enjoy this book. Which brings me to my last point: I've read this book twice, once in book form, once on tape. Normally I enjoy stories much more on tape, but in this case John Rubinstein's narration only serves to make the plot even slower and Alex's thought processes even more annoying.<br />I can understand the difficulty of maintaining a series like this -- fans want a certain thing, but if you give it to them over and over they complain of boredom. Still, I can't help hoping that the sort of boredom inspired by DR. DEATH is not so much a result of continuing a series as of failing to live up to it. All of us fans will inevitably read this book -- we're fans, after all. But I'd rather reread OVER THE EDGE any day.	2003-04-30
US	45990772	R14YKSJ5UQHUUJ	0553502824	540217053	Potshot: A Spencer Novel (Spenser Novels)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Fell flat on its face	A pretty blonde from the little Arizona town of Potshot has hired Spenser to find out who killed her husband. Potshot is run by a bunch of thugs living in the Dell (a sort of Robin Hood slum outside town), and the thugs are run by Preacher, who just might be the killing culprit. So Spenser rounds himself up a bizarre group of henchmen (Hawk included, of course) and sets about cleaning up the town amid a hail of bullets.<br />I'm sorry, folks, but when it comes to Spenser novels, POTSHOT just doesn't cut it. For one thing, by the time I reached the ending I could not figure out why the poor woman would have wanted to hire Spenser in the first place. Not only did that leave me with a nagging doubt (I hate having to figure out if I or the author made the mistake), but Joe Mantegna's voice was far too high and smooth to be Spenser's and I spent the entire audio book trying to adjust and failing. Plus there's little of Susan in here (of course, if you don't like her that might be a good thing), and there's far too much soul searching between men trying to decide why they're doing what they're doing and if what they're doing is the right thing and if they care. And then, naturally, the final showdown had to read like something out of the old west and leave me with my eyebrows fixed up in the middle of my forehead.<br />I usually enjoy the Spenser novels. They're fun, quick reads that don't require a lot of thinking and usually have all the required elements. But POTSHOT, unfortunately, was none of the above.	2003-04-29
US	45990772	R1U5M02C5Y8KQR	073660992X	853466247	The Hunt For Red October	Books	5	6	6	N	N	You've got to read it for yourself	It's the cold war. A Russian missile submarine -- the Red October, commanded by Captain Marko Ramius -- is secretly attempting to defect to the United States. Will the Russians stop her? Or the Americans get her?<br />THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER is one of those incredibly detailed military thrillers that I would never manage to get through without the marvel of audio books. The characters and scenerios are fascinatingly real (note: this is a Jack Ryan, CIA novel) and the last quarter of the book is a riveting chase the likes of which I have never before encountered, but the first three quarters are so chock full of details about submarines, Russia, and politics that I would have bailed out within minutes were it not for John MacDonald's careful narration (note: he does an excellent job with the accents). While neither a Navy buff nor a techno geek, I give the book five stars because the realism is so intense that it reads like nonfiction, yet the plot is not so complicated that I got lost. I do think Clancy used the story as a vehicle to show off his great knowledge on various subjects, but he still kept the pace surprisingly fast. I could launch into a long dissertation here on the many plots involved, the many subjects covered, the Soviet and American political scene, but I think the reader will be far better off getting it from the book than from me.<br />While certainly not the sort of thriller to grab the hyperactive reader, THE HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER is one of those stories that is steadily persisting in becoming a classic and quite deservedly so.	2003-04-29
US	45990772	R19BM04D3XPY20	0393051838	569559452	The Lost Garden: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Discovering love	It's 1941 and London is burning. Gwen Davis (35 and a horticulturist formerly seeking a cure for parsnip canker) must now flee the city she loves, so she's volunteered to lead a team of girls from the Women's Land Army in growing vegetables for the war effort at an old country estate. The estate is beautiful, but it soon becomes apparent the girls have better things to do than plant potatoes -- they have a company of Canadian soldiers billeted in the old estate house right in their backyard. The soldiers are commanded by the bitter, secretly terrified Captain Raley, who immediately snares Gwen's long lost fancy. While the girls dance with the soldiers, she tracks Raley down, seeking to cement a relationship destined to haunt her. Neither can she forget the novelist Virginia Woolf, who's tragic death has left her with fantasized fan letters she can never send. But it's her discovery of a secret love garden hidden behind the orchard, long overgrown and lost to whomever planted it, that truly leads Gwen to explore her dormant longings. While her best friend, Jane, is fiercely trying to keep her missing fiance alive by remembering him and while the land army girls are depicting their former lives in chalk on blackout curtains, Gwen is tracing the meanings of the flowers in her lost garden in search of what she knows of love.<br />THE LOST GARDEN is truly a beautiful book -- straightforward and yet told with such sensitivity and understanding it's impossible not to get caught up in it. Gwen's idea of a drunken orgy is to get \\"very sincere\\" and start rhapsodizing on plants, and her incredibly straight view of love and life makes the poignancy all the stronger. Captain Raley's repressed fear, knowing he is just waiting to be sent out to die, had me crying by the end of the book. In fact, I cried all the way through the last chapter. Though Gwen never gets to know the land girls well (she secretly names them after potatoes), Jane and Raley and Gwen herself are excellently developed. I'm the sort of reader who thrives on constant action, yet this touching little book had me from the first word and never let go.<br />A brilliant portrayal of love in a time of war, THE LOST GARDEN is a literary arrangement I could not recommend more highly.eveloped. I'm the sort of reader who thrives on constant action, yet this touching little book had me from the first word and never let go.<br />A brilliant portrayal of love in a time of war, THE LOST GARDEN is a literary arrangement I could not recommend more highly.	2003-04-17
US	45990772	R1GKPKLFX2T98B	1568582390	997085094	Homecoming	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dark and tragic	Halid, a Muslim soldier, has just returned home after fighting in Sarajevo. The peaceful little village he left is now a hotbed of hate between the Muslims and Christians. His best friend, Momir, was a Christian. Now Momir is dead. Halid may be alive, but he's haunted by a crime he committed during the war. Refusing to return home to his mother, he wanders the streets of his village, sleeping in fields, smoking and gambling and drinking, seeking out Momir's wife (whom he has always loved), fighting for his life in a town that has lost its.<br />HOMECOMING is relentlessly dark. Although the grammar is at times bizarrely constructed, the prose is well written and easy to read, the images are evocative, the darkness is a driving force that propels the reader through the increasingly savage world straight into the bloody ending. I enjoyed the story because I know little about Sarajevo. However, I did not grow attached to any of the characters (perhaps because I wasn't supposed to), and even the horrible finish didn't evoke much sorrow. This novel is far more instructive than it is entertaining, far more tragic than it is intriguing.<br />As war novels go, HOMECOMING isn't the best, but it certainly earns a recommendation for stark honesty.	2003-04-13
US	45990772	RK4ZM9N3A2QRY	0151009368	9397015	Old Money	Books	1	4	11	N	N	I'm still trying to find my way out	There are two storylines in this play, both set at an old mansion in Manhattan. One occurs in the present (they're putting on a party at the mansion), the other occurs in the early 1900s. The people in the present are supposedly rude and unrefined, those in the past are portrayed as better bred, etc. Both stories are about the same old family and could be said to be woven together because scenes from each occur side by side and the characters in each are played by the same actors.<br />Most of the plays I read are in French, so I was interested in sticking my nose into an American drama. Unfortunately, I chose OLD MONEY. I don't know how this play would come across when acted out, but on paper it is totally confusing and yawn inspiring. People from the past hop on stage to chat with people in the present, but wait -- perhaps they're also in the past. Or they're in both the past and the present. Or neither. But take heart, it often appears that the characters themselves don't know -- they ask each other, &quot;Are you really here?&quot;<br />Well, dear reader, I no longer am, and I strongly suggest that you don't show up in the first place.	2003-04-13
US	45990772	R1I3PIOVTI9S6D	1931561184	370577220	What It Means to Love You	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Jagged and angry	The place: Halsted Street, Chicago. The people: Anthony, 34, a stripper. Lance, 27, also a stripper. And Brooke, Lance's 17-year-old girlfriend, a call girl. Both men appear on brightly lit stages at night, battling their fleeting youth while struggling to survive. Lance has been in prison (and he's a little bit mad). Lance has killed (see the blue teardrops tattooed under his eye). Anthony is also violent, but in a more subtle, internal way. As for Brooke ... she's a runaway but she still looks like the little girl she is (perhaps that's why she tries returning home). Although for a time the characters remain strangely detached from everything -- including, it often seems, each other -- as the story progresses they become more and more tangled, their relationship resulting in an ending as gritty as it is horrible.<br />Lance is at one point said to be \\"jagged and angry,\\" and WHAT IT MEANS TO LOVE YOU could easily be described the same way. Stephen Elliott, a former male stripper writing about being a male stripper, is devastatingly accurate without stooping to sensationalism, creating (as in his earlier novel, A LIFE WITHOUT CONSEQUENCES) a story all too close to so many autobiographies of former foster children and street kids. This book is relentlessly dark, written in short, choppy sentences -- harsh, yet undeniably insightful. Perhaps the best paragraph comes when Brooke has finally succeeded in seducing her father: \\"The flowers watch the stuffed animals and the dresser watches the walls.\\" While the style does grow monotonous (it could in no way be called \\"flowing\\"), it is also heavily loaded and very easy to read. I had some trouble deciding between four and five stars, but finally had to opt for four because, brilliant as this story is, the ending is still predictable.<br />Hard, bitter, angry, heartbreaking -- WHAT IT MEANS TO LOVE YOU is a solidly realistic account of inner city violence and despair from one of my favorite emerging authors.	2003-04-09
US	45990772	R3CA9Z12KFZQX2	0399149635	332649910	The Mushroom Man	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A grownup fairytale	Charlotte and Beth are sisters. Charlotte lives in London with her 6-year-old daughter, Lily, and her straying husband, Richard (straying with their au pair, Pavlova). Beth lives in the Welsh country with her 11-year-old triplet daughters, Amy, Jude, and Samantha, and her teenage son, Joseph (and his girlfriend, Nest). Charlotte is tight, confined, controlling; Beth is easy, genial, and open. It's been a long time since they've seen each other, but finally Beth convinces Charlotte to bring Lily over for a visit. Amy, wanting to be Lily's favorite triplet, promises her a bedtime story that first night, and so is born the Mushroom Man, an \\"old hermit with special fairy-seeing powers\\" who invents mushrooms to protect his fairies from the rain. Lily is enthralled. (\\"What do fairies travel in? Carriages?\\") The next morning, she and her cousins go mushroom picking in the forest ... and she vanishes. When found, she is full of talk about this Mushroom Man. She wraps a present for him. And she disappears again. The police are called (along with dogs). But the triplets are convinced there's only one way to get Lily back now, and their plan requires a host of other children and a strong belief in fairies.<br />I found THE MUSHROOM MAN very hard to review, probably because I came up short on words to describe it. This story has the magical quality of a young child, the unsullied perfection of a newly frosted cake. It reads like a fairytale and at times seems almost simple -- the language is trimmed, childlike in places, dreamy and surreal throughout. Yet on a different level the story has hidden meanings, incredible tenderness and understanding, and a startling maturity. What seems on the surface to be no more than a happily-ever-after tale is actually a subtle study of mothers, daughters, marriage, siblings, love, and fantasy. Beth is widowed but there's a man who loves her; Charlotte is married but losing her man. The triplets and Joseph are missing their dad; Lily is looking for a way out of her tangled family. \\"I want to stay up in my fairy palace forever and ever.\\" By the end, I had tears in my eyes.<br />I wish I could sum THE MUSHROOM MAN up in a couple words. I can't. I can only recommend reading it for yourself and seeing if you can.g for a way out of her tangled family. \\"I want to stay up in my fairy palace forever and ever.\\" By the end, I had tears in my eyes.<br />I wish I could sum THE MUSHROOM MAN up in a couple words. I can't. I can only recommend reading it for yourself and seeing if you can.	2003-04-09
US	45990772	R13XOEKQLX98GK	039914983X	267204793	The Spinning Man	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A mystery of the mind	A professor of philosophy at Pearce College, Evan Birch is driving home from the grocery store one evening, his ten-year-old twin sons in the back of the car, when a state trooper pulls him over, handcuffs him, and tells him he's under arrest for suspicion of kidnapping. A local high school student, 16-year-old Joyce Bonner, is missing. Evan and his car were seen at the park where she disappeared on the day she disappeared. And that's not all. Evan is allowed to return home after questioning, but the incriminating evidence only grows. Although he knows he's innocent, he seems unable to convince anyone. The police turn up Joyce's lipstick in his car. His wife, Ellen, questions their boys in secret. One of the boys sneaks to the park to search for his own clues. Every action, every word, every thought is analyzed, turned upside down and inside out, until it's lost in the gray area between truth and lies.<br />Despite (or perhaps because of) Evan's many philosophical asides, THE SPINNING MAN is fast paced and easy to understand, while still being far deeper than your average mystery. There is tension on many levels -- between Evan and Ellen, Evan and his children, Evan and the detectives, Evan and his students, Evan and himself -- and every facet of each encounter is examined minutely, yet never tediously. Rather, the psychological and philosophical aspects in this novel become the mystery itself, a mystery entirely bloodless and yet so absorbing that I consumed this book in a single evening and never once got lost, never once had to reread a paragraph, never once suspended belief. Often psychological mysteries seem to peter out at the end, but this novel's last chapter is a perfect conclusion to a story that I'm still pondering several days later.<br />Although not a typical mystery in the sense that the crime is the central element, THE SPINNING MAN is a perfect psychological mystery that I could not recommend more highly.	2003-04-07
US	45990772	R24I9S6JUITW5H	0439443849	193892373	Green Angel	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Dark and mystical	Green is fifteen. Her father is strong and honest. Her mother collects blue jay feathers, preferring them to pearls. Her little sister, Aurora, is as wild as she is beautiful. Then one day her father and mother and sister go into the city to sell vegetables, leaving Green at home to take care of the gardens. While they are there, a terrible disaster destroys the city. Ashes rain down on Green's home. Her family never returns. As she attempts to survive with burned eyes and looters raiding the abandoned homes, Green sews thorns into her clothes, drives nails into her boots, and covers herself with black tattoos. She becomes Ash. But despite everything she has lost, she has gained the talent to tell good from bad simply by touching, by feeling. She feels the sorrow of the pure white Greyhound she finds in the woods and names her Ghost. She feels the light in the mute boy in the black hood who appears on her doorstep and names him Diamond. But it takes the insight of the starving elderly woman next door to feel the changes in Ash and rename her Green.<br />Hints dropped in the last third of GREEN ANGEL imply that the city (and thus Green's family) was destroyed not by a natural accident, but by malevolent people. For me, this turned an already darkly powerful story into a tale that packed quite a punch. The first half was good, albeit slightly simple, but the second half made me cry. Alice Hoffman's way with words is both subtle and piercing. And the book's covers (with Green on the front and Ash on the back) add compellingly real images to the word portraits already painted inside. This tiny novel (116 pages) is sometimes confusing about time and place, but I felt the mystery added to the overall impression: In many places GREEN ANGEL reads like a fairytale.<br />While I can see where this story might not appeal to readers not easily able to suspend disbelief, GREEN ANGEL is still a mystical and haunting tale of one girl's search for healing that I could not recommend more highly.nd more highly.	2003-04-05
US	45990772	R1QNNNK68RR0S	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	3	41	50	N	N	A literary peat bog	Nineteen year-old Sugar is a whore in 1870s London. William Rackham is the proud, immature inheritor of the Rackham perfumery. William's wife, Agnes, is mentally off. William's brother, Henry, is confounded by his religion. William's young daughter, Sophie, is hidden away in the Rackham mansion and cared for by servants. Is it any wonder William seeks out a prostitute? Of course, we all know he's going to find Sugar. The only question is, what sort of tortured relationship between them can fill up 834 pages?<br />Victorian, THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE most assuredly is not. Whatever I was expecting from this novel, it was not the graphic and often repulsive sex scenes that I got. And when the plot isn't reading like soft porn, it's drowning in details. I managed to read the first 300 pages word for word, but after that it was either start skimming or give up, so I started skimming. And although the last third of the book was a pleasant surprise -- the characters become more fully developed, the plot takes some interesting turns, and the sickly sweet tone of the first half is focused into something much sharper -- I was still considerably relieved to reach the end.<br />Some other disappointments I would note: Several of the characters die without apparent reason, perhaps simply because Michel Faber tired of them. But neither did I miss them, since I never enjoyed any of the people in the first place, although I did grow closer to Sugar near the end. William positively disgusted me and I rue the 500 pages I spent in his company. And Faber's interesting technique of addressing the reader personally as \\"you\\" and tossing in little side comments (welcome comic relief, if you ask me) is lost about halfway through and unfortunately seldom reappears.<br />Least you think I am totally down on this novel, there were a couple of interesting points. The time period and its people are well researched and depicted with a sort of graphic honesty that's a lot like a car accident -- you'd like to look away, but you can't. Bodily functions are common in these pages. Dirt and grime and pain and insanity abound. Nothing escapes the author's probing finger. Nothing is too sordid to discuss.<br />I cannot recommend this novel. I found it irritating at best and regret the time I wasted on it. Still, THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE is notable for its honesty, crude is that may be.ent -- you'd like to look away, but you can't. Bodily functions are common in these pages. Dirt and grime and pain and insanity abound. Nothing escapes the author's probing finger. Nothing is too sordid to discuss. <br />I cannot recommend this novel. I found it irritating at best and regret the time I wasted on it. Still, THE CRIMSON PETAL AND THE WHITE is notable for its honesty, crude is that may be.	2003-04-05
US	45990772	R2RBVUMFDB8L2V	074345684X	798474869	Snow: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The beauty of a snowflake	Yuko Akita, seventeen and living in the south of Japan in 1884, is nearing the end of his boyhood. It's time for him to choose a vocation. Warrior or monk. He chooses to be a poet. Says his father, &quot;Poetry is not a profession. It is a way of passing the time. Poems are like water. Like this river,&quot; and Yuko says, &quot;That is just what I want to do. To learn to watch the passing of time.&quot; Each if Yuko's poems is pure and colorless, each one is about snow. The Emperor's Imperial Poet is not satisfied. They are too white for him. So he sends Yuko to study color with Soseki, a blind old artist who was once in love with a tightrope walker ... named Snow.<br />As the book jacket states, SNOW reads like a long, intensely lucid poem. Not one word is wasted. Although the story itself is not all that remarkable and won't surprise the aware reader, the method used to tell it sets it apart from the ordinary. By the end I had tears in my eyes. There is even a touch of humor here, along with some profound statements about both life and art.<br />Only 100 tiny pages long and readable in half an hour, SNOW is a remarkably beautiful, if simplistic, love story that I can highly recommend.	2003-04-03
US	45990772	RDCHR9OQBDYJC	0525946896	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Predictable yet intriguing	It's 1941. Half of the British bombers attacking Germany are being shot out of the skies, tracked down by new technology called radar. With the Nazis invading Russia and a fierce British bombing campaign only days away, it comes down to the Danish Resistance -- and ultimately to an 18-year-old Dane named Harald Olufsen and a headstrong young Jewish ballet dancer -- to locate the source of this radar, record its operation, and alert England before it's too late. In opposition is of course Germany, but also a Danish police officer consumed with doing his duty and poisoned by the tragic maiming of his wife and the long-time grudge he holds against Harald's family.<br />Perhaps because it's remarkably easy to read, HORNET FLIGHT is so simplistic and predictable it feels in places more like a children's novel than an adult suspense thriller. There's seldom any doubt about what will happen next, and even the deaths along the way don't evoke much sorrow. Although the final getaway does keep the pages turning, the only question raised is how the obvious outcome will be achieved. The techniques used to create suspense read exactly like what they are -- plot props. I found it disconcerting to be always one step ahead of the author and I wanted to scream at the characters to get their heads out of the clouds and make use of their brains. By the time their lightbulbs flash on, the reader has been bearing the burden of knowledge for fifty pages.<br />Where HORNET FLIGHT wins its four stars, however, is in the incredibly real setting. Never does the narrative read like a textbook, never is information included simply for the sake of being information. The life of the Danish in their captured country is penned with such an apparently effortless accuracy that I kept forgetting Follett hadn't been there to observe it all.<br />Suspenseful? No. But well written, interesting, and informative -- HORNET FLIGHT is definitely all that.	2003-03-28
US	45990772	R1F6SERGSL2UP4	0553801430	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	3	0	1	N	N	More of the same	It's Arizona. At night. In a motel. Something whacks Dylan O'Connor over the head and when he comes to he's duct taped to a chair, being injected by a crazy doctor/scientist who informs him that the fluid in this syringe is his life's work and has a different effect on every individual, and sometimes the effect is even positive. The doctor warns Dylan to flee before he is hunted down and killed. Then the doctor himself flees. But not fast enough. By the time Dylan has worked his way free, gotten together his things and his high functioning autistic brother, Shepherd, made his way outside the motel and encountered Jilly Jackson, who has also been injected; by the time all this has happened, the enemies have already arrived in black SUVs and blow the doctor to bits in Julie's car. Dylan, Jilly, and Shepherd run for their lives. It doesn't take long for the effects of the unknown substance to manifest themselves, and the three are soon caught up in a wild web of seeing visions, preventing crimes, and folding from here to there.<br />I didn't have high hopes for BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON so I can't say I was disappointed. I found the writing style immature, the conversations truly laughable, and the characters more like two dimensional cutouts than real people. The beginning was slow, with Koontz taking whole chapters to say what he could have expressed in a couple of paragraphs. I have never much appreciated his brand of horror, in which he tries to make far out situations scary by continually mentioning blood, crosses, snakes, guillotines, darkness, eyeballs, death, doves, fire, etc., rather than creating ordinary situations gone wrong that I can identify with and therefore find truly terrifying. And I am tired of his personification of animals, although this time I have to give him credit -- in BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON it's not a dog but a jade plant named Fred. Why Fred gets almost a whole chapter to himself at the beginning of the book, I'll never know, since he disappears somewhere in the narrative never to be seen again.<br />The pace does pick up near the middle of the book, with the suspense increasing once teleportation comes into play. Shepherd is also very well portrayed within the confines of his autism; of all the characters, he behaves the most realistically. And while the nanotechnology was a bit lost on me and therefore I can't form an opinion of its plausibility one way or the other, it did serve as an interesting explanation for the effects of the \\"stuff,\\" as the mad doctor called it. About the ending? Let's put it this way: It didn't seem much worse than the rest of the book.<br />If you're looking for a serious scientific novel about nanotechnology, I don't think this is it, but BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON certainly contains plenty of hallmark Koontz and will probably satisfy fans.appears somewhere in the narrative never to be seen again. <br />The pace does pick up near the middle of the book, with the suspense increasing once teleportation comes into play. Shepherd is also very well portrayed within the confines of his autism; of all the characters, he behaves the most realistically. And while the nanotechnology was a bit lost on me and therefore I can't form an opinion of its plausibility one way or the other, it did serve as an interesting explanation for the effects of the \\"stuff,\\" as the mad doctor called it. About the ending? Let's put it this way: It didn't seem much worse than the rest of the book. <br />If you're looking for a serious scientific novel about nanotechnology, I don't think this is it, but BY THE LIGHT OF THE MOON certainly contains plenty of hallmark Koontz and will probably satisfy fans.	2003-03-27
US	45990772	RSR8NYZLFPEN1	1559706376	782713096	The Music of a Life: A Novel	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Touching but too brief	Our narrator (name unknown) is waiting in a snowbound train station in the Urals when he encounters a peculiar man silently running his hands over the keys of the grand piano upstairs. The next morning, on the train together, he learns the man's name -- Alexei Berg -- and his story. When Alexei was young and living in Moscow, he was on his way to becoming a classical pianist. And he was engaged to be married. But on May 22, 1941, two days before his first solo concert, he was on his way home to his parents' apartment when a neighbor hurried past warning him not to go back. The secret police had come. And so he fled. After his fiance's family betrayed him, he took the identity of a dead Russian soldier and spend years fighting in the Soviet army. He was befriended by a General, taunted by his daughter, cast adrift without name or family ... but he has never forgotten his music.<br />Despite a very real poignancy, MUSIC OF A LIFE is far too short (109 pages) and undeveloped to be a truly satisfying novel. As I read I kept thinking that if Makine had spent more time on his plot and allowed it room to grow, the story could have been a winner. All the necessary elements -- danger, love, loss and rediscovery -- are present. Yet they're crammed into a few spare paragraphs and the reader is mostly told things, not shown them, between great jumps in time and place. Makine has obvious talent for description, for picking out the forgotten snapshots of life and portraying them as something strangely beautiful, but in this effort at least he lacks the ability to create an impression strong enough to last.<br />I wish I could recommend this little book because I really wanted to like it, but in truth I found MUSIC OF A LIFE only a rough draft, not a finished symphony, and so I can't.	2003-03-27
US	45990772	R1L0PTJAHJ2605	0743202708	785313244	Fat Ollie's Book: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Too much of a good thing	Detective/First Grade Oliver Wendell Weeks of the 87th Precinct is an incredibly large and tactless bigot. And he has written a book. A whole 36 pages long, this pride and joy is in a briefcase in the back of his car on its way to the copy shop (he's still living back in the days of typerwriters without carbon paper) when he gets a call. Someone has seen fit to murder a popular politician running for mayor. While Ollie is inspecting the scene of the crime and quizzing witnesses, someone smashes his car's back window (right in front of a bunch of uniforms, what would you know?) and makes off with the briefcase.<br />And that, my friends, is only the beginning. While Ollie is out tracking down both a murderer and a thief (and treating readers to a running stream of horrificly unPC comments along the way), the crossdressing hooker who filched the manuscript (which is titled REPORT TO THE COMMISSIONER, by the way) takes the little tale at face value ... and starts searching for the captured policewoman therein.<br />FAT OLLIE'S BOOK is full of double meanings on several levels, and Ed McBain (Evan Hunter) gets in hilarious but subtle pokes at nearly everybody -- himself, bestselling authors, literary agents, writers, both sexes, cops and villains, and last but not least, even us humble layperson book reviewers. We all know the fictional city described here, Isola, is supposed to be New York City, and we all know the fictional city described in Ollie's book is supposed to be Isola, and it just gets funnier. McBain has a way with both words and humor that is truly mind boggling.<br />Still ... masterful as this 52nd book in the series is, it's not really a mystery. It reminded me of a cross between Lawrence Block's humorous crime capers and Patricia Cornwell's forage into new territory in HORNET'S NEST and company. Rather than being surprised by twists and turns, the reader is instead denied any suspense by getting to follow all the threads as they grow closer and closer and finally converge. Also, while the no-holds-barred humor starts out funny enough, too much of it turns the story tedious. Halfway through this book I was all set to give it five stars, but by the time I reached the ending my enthusiasm had waned.<br />FAT OLLIE'S BOOK is a great tongue-in-cheek parody and full of laughs, but to me it read like a chocolate dessert -- delightfully sweet in small quantities, but heavy when taken as a whole.and finally converge. Also, while the no-holds-barred humor starts out funny enough, too much of it turns the story tedious. Halfway through this book I was all set to give it five stars, but by the time I reached the ending my enthusiasm had waned. <br />FAT OLLIE'S BOOK is a great tongue-in-cheek parody and full of laughs, but to me it read like a chocolate dessert -- delightfully sweet in small quantities, but heavy when taken as a whole.	2003-03-27
US	45990772	R3CN3SMBZXENVJ	0345452534	521290095	The Murder Book	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Make room for Milo	Alex Delaware, psychologist and consultant to the LAPD, has just taken his longtime girlfriend, Robin, to Paris to try to repair past ills. Instead of falling back in love with him, she's gone off on an extended music tour. He's alone in Los Angeles when the official blue album shows up at his door, filled with hideous and seemingly unrelated crime scene shots and titled \\"The Murder Book.\\" He promptly calls his friend Milo Sturgis, an LAPD detective. Turns out one of the victims in the book, a badly mutilated teenage girl, was Milo's first unsolved homicide -- a homicide he might have closed if he hadn't been mysteriously shut down from within his own department. The two men's determination to discover who sent the book quickly grows into a need to resolve once and for all an atrocity that has been closely guarded by the rich and powerful for over twenty years.<br />If half of THE MURDER BOOK wasn't written from Milo's third-person perspective, it would have bombed badly. As it is, this novel just barely scrapes along on four stars. Yes, THE MURDER BOOK reads like vintage Kellerman, but that's not neccessarily a good thing. How many times can Alex search for information by web or phone? How many times can he take witnesses out to lunch in places painfully well described? How many times can he uncover a vast conspiracy that involves a confusing number of characters and is never quite plausible? How many times can he nearly get killed in the process? True, supposedly now we have some tension between Robin and Alex, but Robin wasn't solid to begin with and I can't say I missed her. What I did miss was any attempt on Alex's part to truly mend the relationship. But then, he's a series detective, what did I expect?<br />In this, the 16th installment in the series, Alex's thought patterns put me to sleep and only Kellerman's overuse of the phrase-not-sentence technique jarred me back awake. Except in Milo's chapters. Those were great. He's mysterious, persistent, a tad grouchy, big hearted -- I was very happy in his company. I almost wished the whole book had been his.<br />THE MURDER BOOK in short? Alex, move over. Milo's here.<br />Anna Kleinuchy, big hearted -- I was very happy in his company. I almost wished the whole book had been his.<br />THE MURDER BOOK in short? Alex, move over. Milo's here.<br />Anna Klein	2003-03-23
US	45990772	R3BY45QWGD9CLJ	1932112030	331804296	The Hired Gun	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Literary hitmen	John Decker is a contract killer. The best, in fact. He's also getting older. And someone is out to take his place. He waits for this Contender to seek him out, but is instead confronted with Olsen, a fast-talking, brash hitman in his twenties who insists he's not the Contender and only wants to work for Decker. Decker is unsure, but both men have lost their Postmen and are now adrift without jobs or protection, so reluctantly he agrees to team up and teach Olsen some tricks in exchange for a second pair of eyes as they track down the force trying to destroy them.<br />The first third of THE HIRED GUN reads like a noir/action film, complete with the killers in their racy black cars and wraparound shades meeting out in the desert with their guns in hand and the blood red sun setting in the background. But as soon as Decker and Olsen get hooked up, the story shifts into an almost literary tale of crooked relationships. I grew so attached to both men that the ending left me feeling hollow inside. I wanted them, hitmen though they are, to succeed. Normally, I'd have a good laugh at scenes where two contract killers sit around in a car on a stakeout discussing the hardships of the Life, but THE HIRED GUN is so well written that instead I was touched and saddened. The plot seems haphazard (I did not even understand all of it), but the characters are convincing enough I hardly noticed. What THE HIRED GUN lacks, for its genre, is the usual flying blood and spilling guts. The one torture scene is hilarious, not painful. The author's attempt to turn a potboiler into a literary work may not satisfy the genre's fans, but as someone who usually winces her way through the violence of the typical noir tale, I enjoyed this variation of the same old theme.<br />If you're into hardcore noir, steer clear. But if you think you'd like a book about contract killers with hearts, I recommend giving THE HIRED GUN a try.<br />Anna Klein	2003-03-21
US	45990772	R1O6HXQC5KAAHQ	0312877919	146624840	Liberty or Death: A Thea Kozak Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Thea in top form	Thea Kozak is in her wedding dress and about to walk down the aisle when she gets the news. Her fiance and the father of her unborn baby, Maine State Trooper Andre Lemieux, has been kidnapped by the Katahdin Constitutional Militia. This terrorist, anti-government organization wants to exchange him for one of theirs, a Jed Harding sitting in jail. Thea, knowing she'll never be able to simply watch the investigation from the sidelines, convinces the State Police to let her go undercover as a waitress in Merchantville -- the little northern town now turned hotbed for militia activity -- and see what her ears pick up. But, being Thea, it isn't long before she's not just listening but also doing and has gotten herself in as much trouble as her beloved.<br />LIBERTY OR DEATH, the sixth book in Kate Flora's series about the educational consultant often turned PI, Thea Kozak, has been a long time coming. And it's a bittersweet experience. Since Flora has always done an excellent job of characterizing a Maine State Trooper, I was disappointed to discover Andre hardly appears in this sequel at all. I understand the plot didn't need him (present, anyway), but I still missed him. Thea herself has toned down some. She's still sassy and in-your-face, but losing her rock seems to have made her more mature (though still willing to throw herself at danger on every other page). The description of the unofficial militia movement is accurate and timely; so is the portrayal of a small Maine town in which everybody's news is everybody else's. Flora tends toward long winded accounts of every thought going through Thea's head, but at least some of the thoughts in this book (contrary to previous enstallments) haven't already been described several times over. And while her writing style never sings, it grows more solid with each attempt. I do have a major complaint with the plot -- the Maine State Police allowing the civilian fiance of one of their Troopers to go undercover? But it does make for good fiction and I certainly enjoyed this latest addition to the Kozak world.<br />Thea may at times remind the reader of an oversized Nancy Drew, but in LIBERTY OR DEATH she is strong enough to make you both laugh and cry. And want more.e for good fiction and I certainly enjoyed this latest addition to the Kozak world.<br />Thea may at times remind the reader of an oversized Nancy Drew, but in LIBERTY OR DEATH she is strong enough to make you both laugh and cry. And want more.	2003-03-19
US	45990772	R2SFAWZO4KFFAB	0312869886	670557541	The Apocalypse Door	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Innovative but confusing	Peter Crossman is one of the thirty and three holy knights for the Knights Templar, and he and his apprentice/partner, Simon, are trying to track down a missing U.N. team in a Newark warehouse. Instead of men, he finds mushrooms, and not just ordinary mushrooms. These little fungi flinch at his cross. Then a nun from Peter's past shows up behind his table in a bar, confessing she has come to kill him. Because he's a priest, he must accept her confession and he can tell no one afterward -- not even when he finds his contact dead outside, his face sliced off. And if that isn't enough trouble, soon he's got the CIA, some Teutonic Knights, more mushrooms, and a talking brass head to contend with. Even a holy knight might have some trouble with all that.<br />Although THE APOCALYPSE DOOR is supposed to be a fast paced thriller/fantasy combo, I found it only a skimpily plotted thriller/fantasy confusion. The chapters alternate between Peter Crossman in his present day role as a Knight and Peter Crossman back when he was Michael on a mission for the CIA. While the story from the past (set in a jungle with Michael looking for a missing man, only to be captured himself and tortured) moves along quickly and grabbed my interest, the present day action often lost me with twists and turns too poorly explained, characters with motivations I could not understand, and an immature writing style littered with cliches. The religious aspect is interesting (even to someone who knows little about Catholicism), but at times Peter's faith seemed more like something he used than actually believed. And as for the satire -- I am sure the author's intention was to poke fun of the CIA and kin, but he did so in a fashion I totally missed.<br />While THE APOCALYPSE DOOR is refreshingly different -- I can't help but want to like a book that throws the CIA and holy knights into the same mix -- it unfortunately doesn't deliver what it promises. Fantasy/thriller, yes. An intriguing story, no.	2003-03-17
US	45990772	R1Z5XK4RI2N5DH	0743242203	304993804	The Boy on the Bus: A Novel	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Where oh where did my little boy go	The boy that Meg put on the school bus this Vermont morning was her asthmatic 8-year-old son, Charlie. The boy who comes home in the afternoon is not. Sure, he almost looks like Charlie, almost acts like Charlie, almost knows the things Charlie should know, but not quite. As Meg sits on the bus studying this boy, the bus driver, Sandy, tells her, &quot;We looked back out the window and there you were, reappearing at the front door when you had been standing there only a second ago.&quot; The sheriff arrives, with questions. Meg's partner, Jeff, is summoned from his job in Toronto. Meg's daughter, Katie, a 13-year-old very full of herself, is retrieved from boarding school. The boy is taken to Charlie's doctor for tests, where it's discovered he no longer has asthma. He's taller, stronger, more adventurous. Everyone asks the same question: Is this Charlie? And no one knows.<br />Because the book jacket made the mistake of calling THE BOY ON THE BUS a mystery, I expected a different sort of ending and was disappointed by the lack of resolution. Had Schupack used Meg's identity crisis to resolve the questions, I would have been satisfied, but as it was I enjoyed every moment up until the last several pages, then felt cheated. Still, this little novel is an excellent psychological portrait of a family in limbo. All of the characters except Charlie are well drawn (Charlie comes across as shadowy at best, but perhaps that's intended), the prose is beautiful and descriptive, the dialogue realistic, and the resulting impression very surreal. Although at times I had trouble with the plot -- if my kid came home in Charlie's condition I'd be screaming for conclusive evidence -- I also appreciated the fact that Schupack didn't turn this story into a thriller but instead kept the search very much inside the family's heads. Even as Meg no longer knows her own son, she finds herself a stranger to her partner and daughter as well. And even herself.<br />Although certainly not a mystery as claimed, THE BOY ON THE BUS is a clever and expertly crafted search for identity and can be appreciated as such.<br />Anna Kleintery as claimed, THE BOY ON THE BUS is a clever and expertly crafted search for identity and can be appreciated as such.<br />Anna Klein	2003-03-17
US	45990772	RHB6BXVFHSZI4	0671039393	914830099	Smoking Poppy : A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A thriller with heart	Dan Innes's little girl, Charlie, is now an adult with a mind of her own. And she's in a Thailand prison. Even though she never turns to her daddy for help anymore, when he hears she could get the death penalty it never occurs to him not to rush to her aid. Leaving behind his intellectual but empty life in London, Dan takes his pub buddy, Mick, and his fanatically Christian son, Phil, and sets out on the long journey to find his daughter. Instead, he finds the girl who stole her passport. Desperate now, he and his buddy and son hire guides to help them follow Charlie's trail in what turns out to be a grueling trek into the wilderness near Myanmar, where they encounter a wild, surreal world of spells and spirits and opium that will either split them apart forever ... or bring them back together.<br />In SMOKING POPPY, Graham Joyce has done an excellent job of handling both the psychological and spiritual issues mysteriously yet honestly. This book is a striking portrayal of a father's unconditional love for his children (and his children's unfailing desire to protect him). Nothing here is portrayed as right or wrong beyond the demands of loyalty. More than a thriller, more than a family novel, SMOKING POPPY seamlessly weaves the two genres together into a painful, amusing, and unnerving tale of love and violence in the exotically dangerous Asian jungle.<br />If you have trouble with slightly far-out spirituality, you may have trouble with this story, but if you're interested in a seriously disturbed literary trip, SMOKING POPPY will definitely deliver.	2003-03-13
US	45990772	R2ITGPY0TZ2BIA	0393051935	678801528	Waiting for an Angel: A Novel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Days as black as pitch	Lomba is a political prisoner in Nigeria. He used to be a student in the capital city, Lagos, but then his roommate was attacked by soldiers and went mad. He used to be in love (perhaps he still is), but then his girl married a General with money. He used to be a journalist living on Poverty Street and writing for the Dial, but then the journalists were arrested and the Dial offices burned to the ground. And so he is in prison.<br />WAITING FOR AN ANGEL starts out quietly sad, with Lomba already in prison, writing love poems for a prison superintendent in an effort to improve his lot. Whether he succeeds or not is speculated on but never really known, for the rest of the book is a flashback, told in first- and third-person accounts by Lomba and several others, including a 15-year-old boy sent to live with his aunt in Lagos as punishment for smoking marijuana. At times the reader learns about students fleeing their college; at other times about a small foods store and its twisted inhabitants. The jumps between time and place unfortunately do irreparable damage to the narrative's flow, but the prose is clean, the details sordid but evocative, and the desperation very real. The political unrest deepens and the death count rises as the demonstrations turn violent.<br />When I started reading WAITING FOR AN ANGEL, I thought the angel in question would be one of freedom, one of hope, but I was wrong. It's the Angel of Death, who makes its appearance in the second chapter -- my favorite part of the book as I have often pondered what goes through people's minds as they are attacked by mobs and soldiers in toppling countries. Helon Habila does a skilled enough job in this debut novel of fear and frustration in 1990s despot-driven Nigeria that perhaps now I know.<br />At the end of the narrative is an afterward describing the real-life crisis in Nigeria that fueled this small novel. Habila states that his goal was to capture the mood of those years, and in WAITING FOR AN ANGEL he has definitely outdone himself.GEL he has definitely outdone himself.	2003-03-11
US	45990772	R2ZZFVCIV1NDV6	068485726X	920786948	Violence, Nudity, Adult Content: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A good try	William Riordan is almost partner at a New York law firm. He's got two sticky cases right now: a woman who was raped in her apartment and is now using Will's email as her therapy, and a rich crossdresser who appears to have murdered his wife and possibly sexually abused his kids. Will also has an on-edge wife, Ellie, and two young sons at home. While his cases are heating up with unnerving consequences, his marriage has turned glacier. As he struggles with ghosts from his past, with needs he has but can't verbalize and needs his wife has but he can't seem to fulfill, he and his colleagues -- the enormous Gerry, gay David, and mouthy Jack -- are kept on their toes beating out legal fires.<br />VIOLENCE, NUDITY, ADULT CONTENT would be a four star book but for its lack of cohesiveness. This surprisingly perceptive novel starts off well, with some hard punches all around, but unfortunately Passaro doesn't manage to finish what he starts. The tension between Will and Ellie, the revelations concerning their dissolving relationship, are worthy of better development and a more detailed finale. The two legal plots are haphazard and drifting, despite a very clued peek into the aftermath of rape, an insightful portrayal of office dynamics, and some touching scenes with the crossdresser's destitute 15-year-old son. Though Passaro's prose is excellent and almost boosts this legal thriller onto the literary plane, his talent proves unable to sustain a book that ultimately founders without a tangible plot or emotional direction.<br />If you like fast paced legal thrillers, this novel may disappoint. Ditto if you're seeking a literary work that fully explores human relationships. Still, VIOLENCE, NUDITY, ADULT CONTENT manages to combine the two subjects in a way that, while fully satisfying neither, certainly deserves an A for effort.	2003-03-09
US	45990772	R2SITLBZHWHZT3	031242163X	364025620	The Scheme for Full Employment: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fluffy fun	All throughout the country, men are driving UniVans (filled with, you guessed it, UniVan parts) to and from warehouses and getting paid for their time in what is known as The Scheme for Full Employment (or just \\"the Scheme\\"). A cute self perpetuating welfare system, the Scheme has been working fine for three decades (except for UniVans constantly clogging city traffic). But now, told through the perspective of a five-year Schemer (who I don't believe is ever named), the Scheme is falling apart. One Schemer, George, is trafficking decorated cakes (can anyone say \\"drugs\\"?). Some workers are pushing for early swerves (getting off early). In response, other workers start campaigning as \\"flat-dayers\\" (8 hours work for 8 hours pay). The two groups clash antagonisticly but nonviolently, only to be crushed (and the Scheme too) once and for all by, yes again you guessed it -- a woman.<br />I had some trouble deciding whether to give THE SCHEME FOR FULL EMPLOYMENT two stars or three, but finally decided on three because the book was delightfully easy to read and without unneccesary verbiage. This little novel has a singular purpose and is also devoid of subplots, home scenes, and anything else beyond the scope of the Scheme. Our narrator's belief in the Scheme allows for a deadpan sort of humor that isn't terribly funny, but does coax a few smiles. The narrator never joins either the early-swervers or the flat-dayers, but gets sucked up by the self corruption just the same. And the portrayal of the supervisors and their behavior is good enough to earn the third star all by itself.<br />While not great literature or even a good mystery, THE SCHEME FOR FULL EMPLOYMENT is a lightly entertaining, tongue-in-cheek poke at the welfare system.	2003-03-08
US	45990772	R12NK1KPHS3TDC	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	1	56	74	N	N	Visions of money wasted	An incredibly sexy man has simply materialized in Stephanie Plum's kitchen. Plum, you must understand, is an inept New Jersey bounty hunter quite used to having people appear uninvited in her kitchen, but never before has one simply materialized. But in good Plum fashion she doesn't see fit to call the cops, even though her boyfriend is one, and the mysterious man identifies himself as Diesel and insists on helping her snag her latest bail jumper, a toy maker named Sandy Claws. Well, snagging Sandy just ain't that easy, not when he's got an assaultive bunch of little people calling themselves elves working for him, and not when Mr. Claws himself is really Somebody Special just like Diesel -- who, it turns out, has a special assignment here in Jersey, tracking down yet another Special person. Throw into this mix the obligatory car bombing, some Christmas trees that don't make it home, a wild shopping trip, a lot of cookie making and throwing, a good old fashioned pregnancy panic, and some of Grandma Mazur's famous conversation -- this time concerning a studmuffin she's just gotta bring home for Christmas -- and you have Janet Evanovich's latest gift to fans of the Plum world.<br />Seldom does a book cry out to me for only one star, but VISIONS OF SUGAR PLUMS was in full voice. I cannot imagine what Evanovich was thinking about when she created this horrific little 149 page Christmas rip-off. Money? Her face in bookstores? She certainly wasn't thinking about plot, characters, or dialogue, although her setting came out reasonably all right. Maybe her computer failed halfway through and she was forced to make do with her first draft. Whatever the reason, this pint sized joke starts out improbable (men materializing in her kitchen??) and ends up impossible (people with supernatural powers??) I read it in an hour and a half, dropped it much the same way you drop the dead mouse your cat has brought home to you, and got on with my life.<br />If you simply must read every new installment about Stephanie Plum, don't let let me scare you away from VISIONS OF SUGAR PLUMS -- unless you also like to read about Joe and Ranger. Because in the middle of all this mysterious mayhem Joe makes only a couple obligatory appearances and Ranger doesn't appear at all. And without them ... sugar plums are only dreams, not visions.ew installment about Stephanie Plum, don't let let me scare you away from VISIONS OF SUGAR PLUMS -- unless you also like to read about Joe and Ranger. Because in the middle of all this mysterious mayhem Joe makes only a couple obligatory appearances and Ranger doesn't appear at all. And without them ... sugar plums are only dreams, not visions.	2003-03-07
US	45990772	R3KMZ8DIGW85A1	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Oh what an errored web we weave	Rommy \\"Squirrel\\" Gandolph says he's innocent. All clients on death row say they're innocent, but as the pro bono lawyer chosen by the court, Arthur Raven must take on this dim but strangely harmless man's last minute appeal. Arthur already has plenty of his own problems. He has an older schizophrenic sister who relies on him to be the duct tape for her shattered world, and he has a life devoid of love. He has no illusions about this case, either, yet when another prisoner, a dying Erno Erdai, steps forward wanting to confess to Rommy's crime, Arthur finds in himself the idealism to forge ahead. And he finds, if ever so shakily, a relationship with Gillian Sullivan, the former judge who originally sentenced Rommy to death row ... a woman with a few problems of her own.<br />Then there's Muriel Wynn, Kindle County's chief deputy prosecuting attorney (note: Kindle County is a fictional place), who had a secret relationship with Detective Larry Starczek ten years ago, back when Larry arrested Rommy and obtained his confession to brutally murdering three people in a restaurant on July 4th, 1991. Now Muriel is running for her boss's spot and Larry is about to retire. When Arthur comes out of the woodwork demanding a temporary reprieve from execution, neither Muriel nor Larry is interested in seeing this case dug up yet again. But as more and more former witnesses emerge with their shocking and conflicting testimonies, everyone involved discovers that on all fronts there are facts they don't know, facts that could change everything, facts they can't hide ... from themselves or each other.<br />While I could not call REVERSIBLE ERRORS a legal thriller in the true sense, it's an incredibly well written novel of human error. I usually read a book a night, but REVERSIBLE ERRORS took me four days to consume because after every few chapters my mind needed a break from the detailed prose. After I started rereading paragraphs so as not to miss anything, I was quickly absorbed by an articulate, textured story written with words that both sound perfect to the ear and ring painfully true. I was struck by Turow's insights into the tormented romantic subplots, which were my favorite parts. Thankfully, although the death penalty is a large part of this book and Turow certainly knows what he's talking about, he refrains from using his novel as a pulpit. The mystery, while not remarkable, is unfolded excellently, and the ending, while not a smashing climax, is a fitting conclusion to a book so firmly grounded in reality it often seems more biography than novel.<br />Though I find few books truly deserving of five stars, REVERSIBLE ERRORS is a thoughtful, compellingly real legal novel that's not only worth the stars but also well worth reading.an articulate, textured story written with words that both sound perfect to the ear and ring painfully true. I was struck by Turow's insights into the tormented romantic subplots, which were my favorite parts. Thankfully, although the death penalty is a large part of this book and Turow certainly knows what he's talking about, he refrains from using his novel as a pulpit. The mystery, while not remarkable, is unfolded excellently, and the ending, while not a smashing climax, is a fitting conclusion to a book so firmly grounded in reality it often seems more biography than novel. <br />Though I find few books truly deserving of five stars, REVERSIBLE ERRORS is a thoughtful, compellingly real legal novel that's not only worth the stars but also well worth reading.	2003-03-07
US	45990772	R1EAVNBMBDEOBU	1582342237	470099411	The Only Boy for Me	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Single mums only need apply	Annie Baker is a single British mum living in a little town near Kent with her irresistible, quick thinking, oh so precocious six-year-old son, Charlie. Like many kids, Charlie hates going to bed, but unlike many kids, Charlie turns bedtime avoidance into a real art. In fact, everything Charlie does is a production. Although Annie has lots of help from her parents and friends, sometimes she doesn't know how she manages. But she does because she loves her Charlie more than anything -- even, it turns out, more than the hopeful, handsome, oh so charming guy, Mack MacDonald, who shows up wanting to share her life.<br />THE ONLY BOY FOR ME starts out as irresistible as Charlie, and entirely because of him. Gil McNeil obviously has a son (a quick check of the book jacket reveals yes, quite so) because she has created in little Charlie a character any mother will understand. Annie herself isn't such a bad mum either; a little weak but definitely well intentioned. Where the story goes wrong -- for me anyway -- is when it shifts from Annie and Charlie to Annie and Mack. Good old Mack, as nice as he is, just can't hold up his end of the book. With his needs or desires or demands -- whatever you want to call them -- conflicting with Annie's life with her son, the romance quickly turns sour while failing to permit Charlie enough room to redeem the narrative.<br />Though definitely a good portrait of a small boy and his mum, THE ONLY BOY FOR ME lacks the staying power to be a truly brilliant novel. Still, other mums may find it an entertaining read.	2003-03-05
US	45990772	R281KX07C16WPT	0312288085	80126976	Life at These Speeds: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Eloquently sad	Kevin Schuler, an eighth grader in rural Missouri, is at a track meet with his team. At the end of the evening, he returns home in his family's car, but the rest of the team takes the school van, only to slide off a bridge into a river. Kevin alone lives. Kevin alone goes on to enter high school, insisting he no longer wants to run but becoming a record-breaking runner. Although he's suppressed the memories and even the names of his friends, they come back to him slowly, in pieces. Although he does not care about his success, although he watches life from the sidelines and passes the people in his world off with a certain tongue-in-cheek sadness, they are still drawn to him, though not necessarily for the right reasons.<br />LIFE AT THESE SPEEDS is undeniably well written. While perhaps not realistic (he is much too mature for his age), Kevin is an interesting narrator. I enjoyed the way he favored no one and viewed most of those around him as a sad joke. Jeremy Jackson's use of language is both eloquent and effective. The plot, however, seemed stretched thin overall and without clear direction, meandering unfettered through one boy's tortured life. This is not necessarily bad, but some readers (like me) may at times lose interest. And while the insights presented are captivating, they do not always ring true.<br />The descriptions of Kevin's races are taut and laced with ellusive tension, but readers interested in serious track and running may also be disappointed. LIFE AT THESE SPEEDS is first and foremost a poignant, dreamlike coming-of-age novel.	2003-03-05
US	45990772	R3PYFV17X1JZVS	0345439384	950204338	The Tutor	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Only slightly sinister	Linda and Scott Gardner have hired an instructer from a tutoring service, Julian Sawyer, to privately tutor their son, Brandon, and help him improve his SAT scores. Brandon is all set to dislike Julian right from the get-go but never gets the chance. Hey, this guy is cool! Linda and Scott fall for the tutor's charm next, relying on him for car rides, business and financial advice, and tennis tips. Brandon's little sister, Ruby, age eleven, an outgoing little Sherlock fan, shares Brandon's feelings as well. But she's also brighter than her brother (or parents) and soon deduces that Julian is not everything he appears. While the rest of her family is cuddled in Julian's palm like a sparrow in the hand of the neighborhood bully, Ruby is sniffing along for clues in a manner even Sherlock Holmes couldn't knock.<br />THE TUTOR starts out strong. The pace is fast, the details interesting, the characters memorable. The middle isn't so bad either. But the ending bombs inexcusably -- perhaps because as the story progresses it becomes more and more out of this world. Peter Abrahams has created here a portfolio of surreal characters, more caricatures than flesh and blood people. Each one represents a certain weakness which Julian exploits to the hilt, although Julian himself has weaknesses, as every good villain must. There's a blurb on this book's jacket from Stephen King praising the author, and while Abrahams's style may briefly remind you of King's in the way it comes across as not quite on the level, Abrahams doesn't hold a candle to King's way with words. THE TUTOR is reasonably well written and contains some excellent descriptions, but most books are reasonably well written. Little here stands out.<br />Horror fans, be warned. You may not be horrified (unless snakes deeply upset you). But THE TUTOR is a stylishly crafted if skewed nailbiter tale, and as such should have a case with suspense fans.	2003-03-05
US	45990772	R1TKKAIW85K1TJ	0553800957	928039507	The Interrogation	Books	4	4	5	N	N	High tension	September 12, 1952. Albert Jay Smalls, an unassuming homeless man, has been arrested for strangling 8-year-old Cathy Lake to death in a park near the tunnel where he lives. But the police don't have enough evidence to hold him. If he won't confess in the next eleven hours, they'll have to let him go. All through the night detectives Norm Cohen and Jack Pierce interrogate him, seeking to crack his denials or at least come up with enough evidence to keep him locked up where he can't do any more harm. While they are at this -- and returning to his home town in search of clues and digging up the park for the girl's missing necklace -- people are busy elsewhere around the city. Eddie Lambrusco is collecting the night's garbage, worrying over his sick daughter and wishing his old pal Charlie was still with him. Police Chief Thomas Burke is by his son's hospital bed, waiting for him to die. A small-time thief is having his own personal money crisis. As the night wears on and the pressure increases, all of these threads are woven together into a resolution as horrific as it is unavoidable.<br />THE INTERROGATION is truly hard to put down. At the beginning of each chapter is an old fashioned clock face reminding the reader of how many hours are left in the interrogation and stepping up the pressure as the characters (and reader) are driven ever closer to desperation. Cook has done a tremendous job of portraying his characters' motivations and playing on their strengths and weaknesses. I especially grew to identify with Jack Pierce, whose own young daughter was murdered and who thus has an even greater reason for promising Cathy's heartbroken mother he will bring her killer to justice. In this expertly plotted novel, which remains fast paced while laced with flashbacks, both the perpetrator and the ending are unguessable but expertly foreshadowed.<br />If you enjoy high tension, well developed mysteries that read almost like a movie, THE INTERROGATION is an excellent choice..	2003-03-04
US	45990772	R1BXIOF1FPPZS0	0446527041	487696263	The Crush	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Long but entertaining	Ricky Roy Lozada is and has always been a killer, yet when Dr. Rennie Newton served as jurywoman on his trial for manslaughter, she felt conscience-bound to press for his acquittal. All through that trial he stared at her and now, only a short time later, Rennie's rival for the job of chief of surgeons at her hospital is silently and brutally murdered in the parking lot, a vase of red roses mysteriously appears in Rennie's locked apartment, and Lozada himself is calling ... and following her. Seems he has a crush on her.<br />Cop-on-leave Wick Threadgill has had his own run-ins with Lozada over the death of Wick's brother Joe and would like nothing better than a piece of this psychopath. That's the only reason Wick accepts his partner, Oren's, plea to come back to Fort Worth as a favor and help out on this case, surveiling Rennie from afar since Oren can't believe she didn't hire Lozada herself to bump off her competition. It isn't long before Wick too is watching Rennie, then following her, then calling on her. Seems he too has a crush on her. And Lozada won't stand for that.<br />If THE CRUSH was about a hundred pages shorter (it's 474), and if Lozada was less of your stereotypical monster (who keeps scorpions in his apartment, has been killing playmates since childhood, and stays scrupulously clean), it would be a four star novel. The romance is well done and neatly woven into the suspense of catching Lozada, and the characters are interesting enough to carry the story. Still ... I got tired of Wick's constant unprofessional behavior (I'm sorry, but cops, even ex-cops, don't let their feelings for a pretty woman distract them while they've got a stone cold killer sniffing their heels),and I tired of the way Sandra Brown clogged the entire novel with background info, rather than fitting it in early on so I could use it as a foundation on which to build my assessment of the characters in their present lives. I ended up skimming rather than reading word for word. Still, when I put THE CRUSH down at bedtime, I was eager to wake up in the morning and finish it (and Lozada!) off.<br />For readers who enjoy entertaining novels of romance and mystery and aren't neccessarily put off by multiple background segments and inner monologues, THE CRUSH is an excellent choice.ill, when I put THE CRUSH down at bedtime, I was eager to wake up in the morning and finish it (and Lozada!) off.<br />For readers who enjoy entertaining novels of romance and mystery and aren't neccessarily put off by multiple background segments and inner monologues, THE CRUSH is an excellent choice.	2003-03-02
US	45990772	R3HCIJ4VU8W7QU	0743223543	460904465	The Bone Vault: A Novel	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Nearly mummified me	A body has turned up inside an ancient sarcophagus, and it's not the right body. Whoever the unknown girl may be, she certainly hasn't been dead nearly as long as the mummified princess supposed to be resting in her place, and soon a trio of Manhattan investigators -- ADA Alexander Cooper, Mike Chapman, and Mercer Wallace -- are in search of the girl's true identity. They begin with the director of the Metropolitan Museum, Pierre Thibodaux, who is forced by his staff into identifying the girl as Katrina Grooten, a native South African who worked in the Cloisters, a cultural relative of the Metropolitan Museum and the New York Museum of Natural History. But as soon as Thibodaux is out of sight, he resigns and disappears. Then the autopsy report reveals Katrina was poisoned by arsnic ... a substance plentiful in the museums. And the real mummified princess has yet to turn up.<br />THE BONE VAULT, one of a series featuring ADA Alexander Cooper (the first-person narrator) and her cohorts, contains some fascinating information on mummification and Incorruptibility (unexplained natural preservation of corpses), a wealth of details about a little known side of Manhattan, a fictional account of the September eleven attacks, and some fascinating sex crimes subplots. None which redeem this painfully over researched and plodding novel. I started the first chapter determined to give this book my best and rammed my way headfirst through the next five or six chapters before giving in and skimming. The dialogue lagged, the mystery was sluggish, and the characters underdeveloped (although at least Alex \\"Blondie\\" was not headstrong to the point of risking her life unnecessarily the way so many female protagonists are these days). Every once in a while a couple of paragraphs, such as Mike's and Alex's games with the Final Jeopardy! question each evening, would merit a thorough reading, and the ending seemed no worse than the rest of the book, but when I finished the last page I was relieved to be done.<br />Readers interested in fast paced and action filled suspense stories will probably be disappointed by this tale, but those who enjoy natural history and an out-of-the-way Manhattan wrapped around a highly detailed mystery may find THE BONE VAULT at least worth a try.elieved to be done. <br />Readers interested in fast paced and action filled suspense stories will probably be disappointed by this tale, but those who enjoy natural history and an out-of-the-way Manhattan wrapped around a highly detailed mystery may find THE BONE VAULT at least worth a try.	2003-03-01
US	45990772	R3HJNWFOW7M7IP	042518630X	371295585	Purity in Death	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Fumbling futurism	A young officer named Trueheart, on the NYPSD in 2059, calls his lieutenant, Eve Dallas, in shock. He has just killed a man in the line of duty, a man who was holed up in his apartment in front of his computer and suddenly went berserk, blood pouring from his body as he attacked his apartment building neighbors. On his computer screen is the single line: Absolute purity achieved. The case soon mushrooms when one of the NYPSD techs who studies the sick man's computer for clues goes berserk himself, with fatal consequences. Soon other cases are popping up, and in each instance the message left on their computer is the same. So are the victims' backgrounds. Pedophiles, drug dealers, everyone who has hurt the young and the helpless -- they are being targeted by a rebel group that's created a computer virus to infect humans. While the Purity Seekers are being hailed by the public as heros, behind the scenes Eve Dallas and her crew are working overtime to catch them and bring them to justice.<br />PURITY IN DEATH, the 15th book in Nora Roberts' \\"In Death\\" series, initially proved a pleasant surprise. Having never enjoyed Roberts' romance fiction, I was prepared to be similarly unimpressed by her futuristic work, but found myself reading the first half of this book with great interest. The characters, if not believable, are at least fascinating, especially Eve Dallas and her hot and brainy husband, Roarke, and two other officers on the NYPSD, Peabody and McNab, whose romance is a welcome subplot. (My favorite character was actually Trueheart, and I was disappointed not to see more of him, although I guess he's featured in earlier installments.) The plot, if hackneyed and implausible and without technical backup, has some interesting aspects. But the ending.... Roberts lost me about halfway through this novel, when I started skimming with a partial idea of the outcome and little interest in confirming it. What started out a fast-paced if immature read unfortunately became bogged down in a political morass that was resolved without fulfilling any of the promise delivered by the early chapters.<br />Readers interested in realistic futuristic fiction with cutting edge technology and gripping plotlines should look elsewhere, but no doubt fans of this series, having the information from the previous books to sustain them, will find PURITY IN DEATH a decent, if not stunning, addition to their collection.ogged down in a political morass that was resolved without fulfilling any of the promise delivered by the early chapters. <br />Readers interested in realistic futuristic fiction with cutting edge technology and gripping plotlines should look elsewhere, but no doubt fans of this series, having the information from the previous books to sustain them, will find PURITY IN DEATH a decent, if not stunning, addition to their collection.	2003-02-28
US	45990772	R3F464B8AB1ZAX	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Almost a winner	Clay Carter, 31 years old, is a financially poor, disillusioned Washington D.C. public defender. Although he just wrapped up a three year murder case and would definitely like a break, he doesn't get it. Instead he gets Tequila Watson, a young man arrested for a random murder. The sheer randomness sets Clay sniffing for clues, and what he sniffs out is more than he ever bargained for -- a visit from a stranger named Max Pace who is known in the legal world as a fireman, someone hired by large companies who have messed up to fix their mistakes behind the scenes. This time, a huge corporation's drug is making people kill. Tequila was on this drug. If Clay will quit his job and set up his own practice, the corporation will pay him 15 million to help them quietly settle with the victims. Unable to say no to so much money, Clay agrees. Besides the money, he gets as a reward a huge mass tort case and is soon richer than his wildest dreams. But even after he owns his own jet and fancy home and has a beautiful model on his arm, he doesn't have the woman he loves. And he doesn't have security. The FBI is sniffing at his heels. Former clients aren't happy. What will happen if the King of Torts himself gets sued?<br />I never thought I'd see the day when I was ready to give a Grisham book five stars, but by the middle of THE KING OF TORTS I was planning to do just that. Somehow, without resorting to unexpected twists, violence, sex, or worldwide conspiracies (seemingly the fare of many thrillers today), Grisham managed to achieve incredible suspense. While certainly no master of setting, his prose is clean, his plotting tight and fast, and his message as clear as the nose on your face (pardon the cliche) -- mass tort litigation is bad! And I have no doubt readers will be convinced he knows what he's talking about, since I was.<br />However, this book never actually made the five stars in my mind because of the last third. I can't point to any particular place where it went wrong, just that it slowed to the point where I was checking pages to see how many I had left and finally, in the last couple chapters, skipping paragraphs altogether. THE KING OF TORTS is like THE FIRM in many ways, from weak women characters to protagonists with poor morals to endings that sag. Grisham has remarkable talent, especially when it comes to writing books that would make great movies, but he also works from a formula and too often his novels reveal that formula. Unfortunately, THE KING OF TORTS is no exception.<br />Although readers who enjoy high intrigue and lots of twists will probably be better off looking elsewhere, for legal thriller lovers and Grisham fans, THE KING OF TORTS is a solid, moralistic read I highly recommend.ong, just that it slowed to the point where I was checking pages to see how many I had left and finally, in the last couple chapters, skipping paragraphs altogether. THE KING OF TORTS is like THE FIRM in many ways, from weak women characters to protagonists with poor morals to endings that sag. Grisham has remarkable talent, especially when it comes to writing books that would make great movies, but he also works from a formula and too often his novels reveal that formula. Unfortunately, THE KING OF TORTS is no exception. <br />Although readers who enjoy high intrigue and lots of twists will probably be better off looking elsewhere, for legal thriller lovers and Grisham fans, THE KING OF TORTS is a solid, moralistic read I highly recommend.	2003-02-28
US	45990772	R2T907EWYQGDTU	0743214358	337718601	I'm Telling: A Novel	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Couldn't Get Through It	I've read dozens of books, both fiction and nonfiction, dealing with child abuse, but for some reason the prologue of this one turned my stomach, I'm not sure why. Nor did I get much farther. I was at a friend's house on a sleepover and brought this little novel along to fill in the dull moments, but the moments remained dull even with I'm Telling. Try as I might, I could not force my way into this book. I tried skipping some chapters and jumping into the middle, but that didn't work any better. The story was heavy, overdone, and sluggish. Perhaps I just need more action and less description of small feelings and details, but this one felt suffocating and after finally coming up for air, I did not go back.	2003-02-27
US	45990772	R1X2D0BFSMD1O	1582432171	38166909	Secondhand Smoke	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Blowing Smoke	I had serious trouble getting into this book. While it is well written in terms of use of language, it's also very disjointed, split into chapters rotating somewhat irregularly between the mother, daughter, and son. Wilson, the son, is a very interesting character and finally I read all his chapters ... starting from the end of the book and working backward. There is no coherent plot and while there's tension between the characters, I haven't yet gotten fond enough of Wilson to care. Nor will I.<br />I'm still giving this book three stars instead of two because I suspect a different sort of person than me (one who favors family relationships and bizarrely interesting people over tight plotting and narrative flow) might very well enjoy Secondhand Smoke.	2003-02-27
US	45990772	RQZE8S66JUIU3	0553801414	138360553	Special Circumstances (Mike Daley, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Grabbed Me But Didn't Hang On	I was interested in this book from the first chapter, despite the many character descriptions that proved hard to keep straight. The story was well plotted and cleanly written, the people reasonably interesting, and the mystery plenty mysterious enough. But for some reason at about chapter twelve or so I started losing it. I had a good idea how it would all end and didn't feel like spending another three hours with this book getting there, so I flipped to the last chapter to test my theory. I was wrong on some counts, right on others. But I wasn't sad I'd missed the middle.<br />I have a feeling legal thrillers just aren't my thing and I don't want to do the author an injustice by underrating Special Circumstances, since it is certainly well written, so I'm giving it four stars even if I couldn't finish it. But be warned -- if, like me, the legal doesn't grab you, Special Circumstances may not either.	2003-02-27
US	45990772	R2HB7YEOUUFL60	078670943X	731165523	Little Girl Blue: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Packs A Punch	Perhaps because of the subject matter (child exploitation), I found this book very painful. The characters were also brilliantly done and that may have added to the impact. I was rooting for the tough female Lt. Julia Brennan from the first page and was snagged instantly by the mysterious loose cannon Peter Foley. Put the two together, which David Cray did, and you've really got something. Put the two together in a chase against someone killing off child porn dealers and cast suspicion against Foley himself, which David Cray also did, and you've got a book impossible to put down.<br />And yet ... and yet ... I did not finish Little Girl Blue. I couldn't. I think the subject matter touched me too much; I didn't want to read any more about it. Near the end, right in the middle of all the wind-up action, I bailed out.<br />Can I recommend this book? Definitely. Just don't tell me the ending. I may go back someday.	2003-02-27
US	45990772	R2U6F3Q0WFELC	0553801929	562039873	Dark Horse	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not enough horse	In a former life, Elena Estes was a cop. In her present life, she's an angry, blunt, and suicidal ex-cop who made a mistake on the job that cost another cop's life. When 12-year-old Molly Seabright searches Elena out for help in finding her missing 18-year-old sister, Erin, Elena's hiding out on a friend's Florida ranch with her horse. Elena protests that she's not even a PI, but Molly, wise and scared and painfully old for her years, is hard to put off. And it soon becomes apparent no one else is looking for the missing girl. Erin's parents don't care. Erin's former boyfriend tells Elena she's way out of line. At the stable where Erin worked, a valuable horse has been mysteriously killed. When Elena tries to bring the case to the attention of her former employers, she's handed over to Detective James Landry, who dislikes her on sight and refuses help. She shares his disaffection, but there's a girl missing and a lot of strange things happening in the horse show business and if he won't do anything she'll do it herself. Elena the dark horse finally has a second chance.<br />A couple of days ago I took DARK HORSE out of the library again, forgetting I'd already read it five months ago, and so had another go at it. It wasn't much better the second time. The equestrian angle is very interesting and I would have enjoyed this book if it had spent more time in the stables and on the show ground, but after the kidnapping took the spotlight I grew increasingly bored and incredulous. Also, while I enjoyed the chapters written from Elena's first-person perspective, I found the jumps to the third person accounts disjointed. The best part of this novel is the high tension between Landry and Elena, and Tami Hoag would have done well to keep this strictly a horse mystery while stepping up the romance.<br />Readers seeking tightly woven and credible mysteries would do well to look elsewhere, but equestrians and fans of Tami Hoag will probably find DARK HORSE worth reading.	2003-02-26
US	45990772	R1SUT76X779Z7F	1569472580	555640528	Who Are You, Linda Condrick?	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A suspenseful, twisted mystery	In the little Australia outback community of Leumeah Valley, Linda Condrick is the only stranger. First brought into the community to nurse Gregory Forst's aging grandmother, Linda has stayed on after the old woman's sudden death and is now engaged to be married to Gregory himself. And there the trouble lies, because Mrs. Forst left the valley and every penny in it to Gregory, and as soon as Linda gets her hands on this fortune, she intends to turn the other occupants of the valley out on their own. No wonder they hate her. No wonder they wish she was gone. No wonder, when after a fire has raged through the outback and the body of a swaggie (drifter) is found in its remains, Linda gets the blame. She was the person who sent him to help fight the fire, wasn't she? And why was she later seen over by the gully where he died? Soon two policemen from the city arrive and the questions begin. No one escapes Inspector Quince's affable but searching investigation -- not Linda, not Gregory, not any of the other married or intermarried relatives living with them; Diana, Billy, Hudson, Marcia, Wilma, and last but definitely not least, Rowena, the sixteen-year-old girl brought into the family as a toddler, now the narrator of this story. From the start suspicion rests on Linda, and the twists and turns along the way don't help her any. Who is she? And what has she done?<br />Interestingly enough, WHO ARE YOU, LINDA CONDRICK? was originally published in Great Britian in 1962. I don't know why it took 40 years for this novel to reach the U.S. It is cleanly written and fast paced, laced with ever increasing tension and padded with clues that give the reader much to contemplate without ever revealing the totally surprising ending. But -- that ending. I intend to read this book over again in a few days and perhaps that will change my opinion, but while during the first reading I was hooked in the first chapter and steadily reeled in throughout the entire short book (190 pages), the last chapter left me with a spinning head and a lot of questions. Yes, the mystery is unraveled perfectly, the characters well drawn, and the prose solid, but I could have done with more explanations.<br />My small criticisms aside, WHO ARE YOU, LINDA CONDRICK? is a compelling novel that is sure to satisfy fans of taut, fast paced, and well characterized little mysteries.ast chapter left me with a spinning head and a lot of questions. Yes, the mystery is unraveled perfectly, the characters well drawn, and the prose solid, but I could have done with more explanations. <br />My small criticisms aside, WHO ARE YOU, LINDA CONDRICK? is a compelling novel that is sure to satisfy fans of taut, fast paced, and well characterized little mysteries.	2003-02-25
US	45990772	R3UXW21AGWLSXK	0312268041	16024868	Islands of Silence: A Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Love and loss	Alec Marquand never speaks. He never willingly communicates with another person. He is very old now, close to the end of his life, and incarcerated in a mental hospital. But it wasn't always like this. Once he was a young man, an archaeologist fresh out of college mapping the Stone Age in Scotland, and there, on the remote and much feared Island of Silence, he discovered a secret destined to haunt him the rest of his life -- a beautiful girl. Given time, their strange and fleeting relationship might have blossomed into something more, who knows? He never got to find out. WWI took him away, spit him out on a totally different sort of island under a rain of bullets, and baptized him in a carnage too horrible to remember. He has not spoken since, but he has never forgotten the girl.<br />Written from Alec's point of view in chapters alternating between his adventures as a young man and his life now as an old one, ISLANDS OF SILENCE is a strangely haunting novel. Although I found it slow going and in places was bored to the point of skipping whole paragraphs that seemingly had little to do with the plot, the prose was poetic, the details singularly perfect, and I worked my way through to the last page and was rewarded by an end satisfyingly appropriate for a story as mystical and sad as this one. Martin Booth has created here a horrific portrait of war, painting the devastation in chapters I will not soon forget. It would be hard to call ISLANDS OF SILENCE a love story; equally difficult to consider it a coming-of-age novel. Rather, it is a beautifully if sluggishly written account of one man's attempts to come to grips with a world that has hurt him too much.<br />Readers who enjoy complex, mystical tales of love and loss will most likely find ISLANDS OF SILENCE a brilliant addition to their collection.	2003-02-24
US	45990772	R27SREXO1DVMN1	0870744747	497023784	Borrowed Light: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Devastating	At the age of twenty-five, David Baum was diagnosed with AIDS. Now he's a Washington, D.C. architect, he has a lover named Rich, he is acrid and honest and painfully blunt ... and he is dying. This is his story, the chronicle of his last four years on earth and his struggle to survive his work, his relationships, and his life.<br />By the time I reached the end of BORROWED LIGHT (which I did unfortunately far into the night), I was sobbing. Seldom have I encountered a book more emotionally devastating. Forget THE LOVELY BONES -- BORROWED LIGHT is neither sappy nor weak, the details are incredibly real, the prose is sheer poetry, and the result is amazing. In fact, by the time I reached the middle sections I had forgotten it was a novel; I read every word with the understanding it really happened. Although initially I found I had to take the story in small doses -- over a period of two days as opposed to my usual book-a-night orgy -- by the time I reached the end I was both shattered and incredibly impressed.<br />BORROWED LIGHT delivers everything it promises. I could not recommend it more highly.	2003-02-22
US	45990772	R1Z2HZ1HEJAWFD	092654425X	386611729	Uppers, Downers, All Arounders: Physical and Mental Effects of Psychoactive Drugs	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The best	An excellent, full color and clearly laid out guide to nearly every drug on the market today, illegal, recreational, and medicinal. Lots of photographs, quotes from people who have used the drugs, side effects, addiction and safety information, charts and graphs. This book was a help to me both for researching a book I was writing and for looking up the drugs my 89-year-old grandmother is taking for her pain.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2003-02-22
US	45990772	R2LTEU03DH2SA6	0345441095	701428586	Garfield Beefs Up: His 37th Book	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good old Garfield	Other than now being in full color instead of black and white, Garfield hasn't changed much over the years. He still picks on Jon and Odie, sleeps all the time, loves food, and can't help being nasty, incorrigible, and hopelessly loveable. This book is a thick, beautiful, and easily readable tome to everybody's favorite cat.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R2A6NRGFUVRXPY	0836211499	307215226	Beyond The Far Side	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Humor for the thinking mind	Most cartoons may come across as a bit dumb, but not the Far Side. If you like to think and laugh at the same time and are sick of the same old silly antics, don't miss this little book. The drawings are great and the subtle, implied humor even better. This is my favorite cartoon book to date.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R5REDQKVB7967	0030007429	846637204	Things I've Had to Learn Over and Over and Over (Plus a Few Minor Discoveries)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	There's something about Snoopy...	... and his friends. Charles Schulz definitely had a gift for looking below the surface for something deeper and then distilling what he found into a line drawing and a single sentence caption. If you want to laugh, cry, and think a little at the same time, this book is perfect. A great gift too.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R2R5FS39E546LM	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Weak plot, strong pathos	The beginning that has been immortalized ... on her way home from school in December of 1973, fourteen-year-old Susie Salmon (as in the fish) is lured by a neighborhood man into his underground hideout, raped, and murdered. Now up in a peculiar sort of heaven where her textbooks are Glamour and Vogue, her favorite place is a gazebo, dogs frolic all around her when she wishes for them, and she is desperately alone and motherless, she looks down on her bewildered and broken family and friends as they search for her killer and try to pull themselves together to face a life without her. This is her story.<br />It seems no one in this country (except possibly my mother) has missed at least thumbing through THE LOVELY BONES. Seldom has there been more fuss over a debut novel. I must confess, I am bewildered by the hubbaloo. While this novel certainly has a promising beginning and a first chapter strong enough to propel the reader onward, it soon founders in paragraphs that have seemingly little to do with the main plot -- whatever that is. The characters are flat, their emotions unrealistic, heaven a dismal proposition, and the ending unsatisfying. However, that said, somewhere in this story there must be a certain power because I found myself so depressed and heartbroken after the first five or six chapters that I had to either put the book down or forfeit a good night's sleep. Whatever Alice Sebold has created here, it is haunting.<br />Readers interested in a coherent storyline without sentimental ramblings will probably find this book disappointing, but if you are touched by the odd, the lost, the mourned, and the strangely beautiful, THE LOVELY BONES will break your heart.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R374A6CAPH6S7Y	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Tight and twisted	Eleven years ago Julie Miller, Will Klein's former girlfriend, was raped and strangled in her basement. By Will's brother, Ken. At least, that's what the police think. And the facts certainly seem to add up. Ken hasn't been seen in his suburban New Jersey neighborhood since that night and his family's decided to consider him dead -- even if people all over the world have reported seeing him -- until Will's mother, on her deathbed, tells Will that Ken is alive. And Will finds a photograph of his brother, taken long after he supposedly died. Only days after this, Will's new girlfriend and soulmate disappears, leaving him only a note saying she'll love him always. When the FBI shows up at Covenant House, Will's place of work, and starts asking questions about his missing girlfriend, he gets worried. He's even more worried when he learns her fingerprints have been lifted from a New Mexico homicide scene. Can he, with the help of his buddy Squares (yoga guru with a boxed in Nazi symbol tatooed on his forehead), a newspaper reporter in New Mexico, Julie's little sister, and a former hooker, summon up courage he's never thought he had to unravel a tale so complicated it may cost him his life?<br />While GONE FOR GOOD is cleanly written, tightly plotted, and intensely absorbing, it borders on incredulity. The twists and turns are so varied and numerous as to leave the reader going \\"Wait a minute!\\" and putting the book on hold while he tries to figure out how things could have possibly worked out this way. While this is not necessarily bad, I tend to enjoy books more firmly planted in realism and not in the sort of stories that fuel national tabloids. However, I thought Will's and Square's working at the real-life Covenant House where they drive the night van that picks up homeless kids was a nice touch, even if the House has lived through some bad scandals in the last ten years. I enjoyed Will as a lead character ... and felt the characters remained true to their types, even if their types were a bit far out. And although I felt the subplot about Squares and his wife and baby (does no one in this book have a normal life?!) was unneccesary, the rest of the plot held together seamlessly.<br />If you enjoy tightly written thrillers with bewildering twists and turns and unguessable endings, GONE FOR GOOD is sure to please.en if their types were a bit far out. And although I felt the subplot about Squares and his wife and baby (does no one in this book have a normal life?!) was unneccesary, the rest of the plot held together seamlessly.<br />If you enjoy tightly written thrillers with bewildering twists and turns and unguessable endings, GONE FOR GOOD is sure to please.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R2EQQDFKGQHZVH	0590481355	732696569	I Spy School Days: A Book of Picture Riddles	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Incredibly well done	Children of all ages (adults too!) will find something to enjoy in these pages -- the young ones just looking at the absorbing pictures and the older ones searching for the myriad of items hidden within each scene.<br />The scenes are each a two page photograph filled with many objects that revolve around a certain theme, from the alphabet to a town of blocks to a wooden marble machine that actually works (see the last pages for a note on this). At the bottom of each scene is a riddle to tell the searcher what he or she is looking for and to provide clues. Some of the objects are easy to find, some are impossibly difficult!<br />And for those of you who reach the end of the book and wish it wasn't over ... it doesn't have to be. There are additional riddles on the last pages so you can enjoy the pictures all over again.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R2RAC71FKVYYZ6	0836218523	675203442	The Calvin and Hobbes Lazy Sunday Book	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great for a rainy day	Calvin and Hobbes are certainly funny, no doubt about that. When Calvin isn't getting in fights with his good old stuffed tiger, he's making up wild scenes in his head to correspond with whatever domestic indignity is being foisted upon his six-year-old sensibilities.<br />Still. Some of the cartoons get a bit repetitious and I found myself skipping through to the endings for the punch line, since I already had a good idea what the middle was all about. True, each page contains only one comic, which allows time for story development, but when you've already read the same story five times, it gets old.<br />If you're snowed in with the kids (or stuck volunteering in a library, like me), the Lazy Sunday book will help to pass the time.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R1JDRSW7BKYKO8	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Seriously funny	Poor Nan. A student at NYC in need of a little cash, she's applied for a job as parttime nanny to four-year-old Grayer, the son of Mr. and Mrs. X, who live on Park Avenue in Manhattan and have money coming out of their ears. Poor Grayer. Not only is he already being groomed for college, but his mommy's got him signed up for everything from ice skating to French lessons and if he doesn't have a play date for the afternoon he's probably got a Mommy and Me meeting (to attend with his nanny). He's an okay little guy who wants his old nanny but soon accepts Nan as her replacement. All he really wants is his daddy's attention, the one thing he can't have. Daddy is too busy living it up with his mistress, Ms. Chicago, who Nan discovers on an eventful Halloween night when she is dressed up as none other than a giant Tellytubby. Nan is horrified, but she's too busy with all Mrs. X's outlandish requests on her time, from picking up dry cleaning and dozens of party supplies to attending a weekend party out in the country -- her worst and final experience with the Xes. Though she still loves Grayer and has hung in there for him literally through sickness and health, even a nanny can take only so much.<br />Cowriters Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus, both former nannies, have created in THE NANNY DIARIES a story only an insider could have told. Both hilarious and heartbreaking, light and serious, full of a young woman's touching love for her little charge and the outlandish excesses of a filthy rich upper crust family, this novel really struck a cord with me. As someone who has been a live-in nanny myself (albiet for a small incomed country family), I completely understand Nan's attachment to Grayer and felt for her as she struggled to adjust to the bizarre world created by the Xes. I laughed with her through the impossible play dates, cried with her over Grayer's neglect, and cheered with her at the end when she finally got to have her say. You go, Nanny!<br />Anyone who likes light and serious domestic novels and everyone who has ever taken care of someone else's kids will find THE NANNY DIARIES irresistable.light and serious domestic novels and everyone who has ever taken care of someone else's kids will find THE NANNY DIARIES irresistable.	2003-02-21
US	45990772	R135UQPT6J0ZLT	0446529400	481146482	Long Lost	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Plodding and uninspired	Years ago when Brad Denning was a child, his eleven-year-old younger brother, Petey, was kidnapped, never to return. Now Brad is a famous architect with a wife, Kate, and an eleven-year-old son, Jason, who are his world. But he has never forgotten his brother's disappearance and when a homeless, unkempt man shows up outside his Denver office claiming to be Petey and knowing things only Petey could know, Brad is overwhelmed with joy and invites him into his home. Only a few days later, when they're all on a camping trip together, Petey shoves Brad over a cliff and runs off with his wife and son. Brad, fueled by both love and revenge, is determined to rescue his family and punish this stranger, whoever he is. Is he Petey, the long lost brother? Or is he, as the FBI thinks, someone totally different? With nothing left to lose, Brad sets off across the country trying to follow Petey's trail in search of answers.<br />While LONG LOST does contain a riveting action scene down in a cellar full of snakes, it has little else to offer. The prose is without poetry, the characters paper thin, and Brad's quest without enough spice to fill up an entire book. Morrell did succeed in confusing me with his various identity twists along the way, but it was the sort of confusion that lost me entirely and left me uninspired to slog through to the resolution. I would have liked to get to know Kate and Jason better before they disappeared, because as it was I had little to look forward to in finding them.<br />If you like high suspense thrillers with great characters, action, and motivations, this novel is likely to disappoint. However, fans of Morrell may very well find something to enjoy here and should at least give LONG LOST a skim.	2003-02-20
US	45990772	RHWN0JF16R1KS	0312278543	941096752	Hard Freeze: A Joe Kurtz Novel (Joe Kurtz Thriller)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Blood and bullets	Joe Kurtz, ex-PI, has been out of Attica only four months, after serving a twelve year sentence for manslaughter, when he finds himself bombarded by hit men hired by the Farinos, an upstate New York crime family interested in making him dead. And then there's a dying violinist who thinks Kurtz might still be a PI and asks him to look into the case of a dead child killer who just might not be dead. The two plots soon converge, in a clash of bumbling Farino family bodyguards, the lovely and dangerous Farino daughter Angelina Farino Ferrara, two crooked cops who would just love to catch on-parole Kurtz carrying a gun, a freezing cold Buffalo winter, and the most dangerous element of all -- a serial killer hiding behind a big name right out in the open.<br />HARD FREEZE, Dan Simmons's second book about this tough, relentless anti-hero Joe Kurtz, is hardboiled, gritty, and full of dead bodies. How many were there? I never managed to keep count but the total kept rising, Kurtz carrying out a few too many of his own executions for me to be comfortable, and the bad guy spurred onward by the cheesiest motivation imaginable to justify his horrible treatment of teenage girls. The dialogue also left a lot to be desired; no Elmore Leonard here. Still, the story is fast paced with just a hint of heartless romance, characters who thankfully remain true to their type, and a justice for the bad guy terrible enough to satisfy even Joe Kurtz.<br />If you like tough and bloody hardboiled tales about cruelty and violence, ex-cons and crooked cops, and outside-the-law heros who never give up fighting for their own, HARD FREEZE is sure to satisfy.	2003-02-20
US	45990772	R2UY1LDAWMBG0B	1899344764	966713739	London Boulevard: A Dark Twist on the Classic Story (Bloodlines)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Hardboiled at its best	After serving three years in prison for an assault he can't remember committing, Mitchell is out and about in London. An old mate sets him up with a flat and a job run by a loan shark and Mitchell gets beat up and finds he isn't crazy about that life. Then he gets set up as a live-in handyman for an ex-actress with money and cars and sex and everything seems to be going great -- except blokes from the loan sharking end have it in for him. Mitchell also has a crazy sister, Bri, and soon meets and falls in love with a beautiful and smart woman, Aisling, who returns his love. But with Mitchell enraging half the folks he meets and the rest turning up dead, both he and the people he loves are soon in danger. Can his increasingly violent methods keep them all alive?<br />LONDON BOULEVARD is one of the best books I have read this spring. Tough, gritty, written in an almost diary-like style, this is one of the few novels I truly had trouble putting down. I was sitting up in bed at one in the morning thinking, \\"Just a couple more pages, that's all,\\" and before I knew it a couple more had turned into several more chapters. Ken Bruen has created a sordid tale of love and violence that is criminally easy to read. His characters aren't particularly loveable, but they aren't supposed to be. His pacing, plotting, dialogue all sizzle and leave the reader hungering for more right down to the slam bang finish.<br />My one complaint with this book, which has nothing to do with the author and his work, is the publishing press's horrible job. Periods are missing, commas and quotes are backwards, at one point a whole ten to twelve line blank chunk has been inserted in the text, the list goes on. I cannot believe a publishing company, even a small one called Do Not, could get away with this sort of mess.<br />In short, if you like hard boiled, fast paced, and tough talking little novels, LONDON BOULEVARD is a winner I couldn't recommend more highly.	2003-02-18
US	45990772	R3E10T1HRMQZ65	0684872536	753507601	December 6: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Well researched wartime Japan	Harry Niles, the son of white missionaries to Japan, was raised by a native nurse and has remained in Japan all his life, more Japanese than American. Early December, 1941, finds him in Tokyo just before the bombing of Pearl Harbor, running the Happy Paris club and struggling to maintain his relationship with his beautiful and emotional mistress, Michiko, who also works in the club, playing the juke box. With talk of war everywhere, Harry is intent on leaving. But how? And can he, using his cunning and knowledge of politics, con his adopted country out of fatal combat with the powerful America? And escape the honor bound military man, Ishigami, who's stalking him with a mind poisoned by past wrongs and a sword bent on revenge?<br />While DECEMBER 6 does not live up to GORKY PARK, and while Harry Niles is no match for Arkady Renko, Martin Cruz Smith's latest effort is stamped with his distinctive use of details. His prose is clean and reflective, never coarse or unfinished or abrasive. The plot is not linear but rather slips back and forth, weaving time, place, and characters into a novel that some will find confusing, others beautiful.<br />Me, I ended up somewhere between confused and awed. Smith's touch is magic, but the sheer volume of research included in DECEMBER 6 made it at times read more like a school paper than a novel. One paragraph, which detailed some gruesome beheadings, managed to stretch more than two pages. Plus, during some points Harry Niles came across as unemotional and detached, although I was aware of churning undercurrents. The dialogue disappointed me as well. Still, I felt the ending was a fitting finale to an intriguing story of love, violence, and politics.<br />A newcomer to Smith's writing may be overwhelmed by this fact packed thriller, but Smith's fans, as well as anyone interested in wartime Japan, will find DECEMBER 6 absorbing and thought provoking.	2003-02-17
US	45990772	RC9CI2WRJ50MK	0743223896	942066894	Nine	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Slow and forced	Sedgewick, a reform school in Malibu for troubled rich kids, has produced Project Nine, a group of sadistic killers bent on eliminating the FBI's ten most wanted felons ... and a few other people as well. After the first three felons are found strung upside down over bathtubs, Homicide Detective Alex Brandon of the Los Angeles Sheriff's Department is assigned head of the investigation, along with his tough talking partner, Ciara -- as if they didn't have enough problems of their own already, her with her secret tragidy and he with his only nephew showing up on his doorstep in lieu of being arrested for car theft. Brandon soon notices the bodies of the victims are strickingly similar to a serial killing case he investigated ten years ago, one wrapped up when the perpetrator was killed by his own son, Kit Logan, while he was at work on his ninth victim. Kit, connected to a wealthy family, never went to jail. Instead he went to Sedgewick. But now Brandon can't get a hold of him. Does someone somewhere know too much?<br />Although NINE hooks the reader from page one and promises a good read, it soon fails on all counts. The plot is forced and laborious, hopping between a variety of cardboard viewpoint characters, from the too good and gorgeous Alex Brandon to the too nasty and wooden bad guys. At least three of the people in the book have green eyes (a geneticly remote possibility), and none of them can speak realisticly. The only interesting character is Brandon's uncle and surrogate father, John, retired from the LASD. A quarter of the way through this novel I stopped reading word for word, and by page 251 I was skipping whole chunks. The ending was a huge disappointment and left me hoping none of these poorly motivated paper people come back for an encore. While Jan Burke obviously has talent, it is not displayed well here.<br />If you like fast, well plotted books peopled by characters with convincing motivations, this book is not for you. However, Jan Burke fans will no doubt find things to appreciate here, and should certainly give NINE a try.ll no doubt find things to appreciate here, and should certainly give NINE a try.	2003-02-16
US	45990772	R32PFUQO9AE92U	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Haunting psychological suspense	After a child is murdered at her son Duncan's school before his very eyes, Martha is determined to keep anything terrible from ever happening to him again. To this end, she flees with him to a cave on the Rio Grande, leaving her husband David, whose sanity she doubts, without a clue as to where she's gone. David hires a private detective to find her, and the detective does ... only to fall in love. Can David find her on his own and bring her back to safety? Or has she slipped too far from reality, into a fantasy with no return?<br />PRINCE OF LOST PLACES is one of the best books I have read this spring. Haunting, lyrical, and cleanly written, it hooks the reader from line one and never lets go, even long after the covers have been closed. Although it's only 174 pages long, the brevity works well, focusing only on the characters' feelings and surroundings and thus contributing to the sense of unreality. Kathy Hepinstall has done a tremendous job at portraying a love so powerful it knows no bounds. And while the ending may not surprise the aware reader, it works perfectly as a fitting conclusion to Martha's world.<br />If you like haunting, beautifully written tales of psychological suspense, PRINCE OF LOST PLACES is a read you'll never forget.	2003-02-14
US	45990772	RVDAV1M2959X2	0399149309	148574901	Shrink Rap	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Spenser without the spice	Sunny Randall is a Boston PI with guns in the closet, an ex who isn't really an ex who has bad connections, a pit bull named Rosie who ranks only slightly higher than world peace on the scale of importance, and, in fine Parker style, a bodybuilding gay hunk for a sidekick. In, SHRINK RAP, Sunny has been hired as bodyguard by a novelist who's being stalked by her ex, Dr. John Melvin, a psychiatrist. In order to discover more about the good doctor, Sunny assumes a disguise and shows up as a supposed patient seeking advice about her ex ... not so far off point. In the process of bagging the bad guy, Sunny learns some interesting truths about herself. Supposedly, anyway.<br />The really good thing I have to say for SHRINK RAP is you can read it in one sitting without eyestrain, since the pages are filled with so much of Parker's characteristic dialogue that one doesn't need to worry about stumbling into any description along the way. The really bad thing I have to say is that Parker seems to have discovered a wonderful new technique whereby all his characters are interchangeable. Simply alter the name and slap them into different books. Sunny talked so much like Spenser that at times I forgot she wasn't Spenser. And as for the dog ... when the dog starts getting whole chapters of her own in which to fetch balls and take walks, you know the plot has foundered. Sunny did have a couple of good scenes with the shrink, but after she has explained to her friends and cohorts six or seven times why it is she doesn't need their help, my eyes start rolling.<br />If you love Parker no matter what, SHRINK RAP will give you a good dose of more of the same. But otherwise, I suggest you reread the early Spenser novels and leave Sunny on the shelf.	2003-02-14
US	45990772	R1MI0X2NLHHDY8	0375505229	754210276	Matchstick Men: A Novel of Petty Crimes	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A petty crime gem	Roy and Frankie are partners in con, ripping off everyone who crosses their paths from college kids to home making women to greedy men. But Roy is also suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder, and Frankie hooks him up with psychiatrist Dr. Klein so he can get the pills he needs. Dr. Klein in turn hooks Roy up with a daughter he never knew he had. Angela, fourteen, is eager to have a dad and wants to learn all about his job. Pretty soon she's helping. Pretty soon Roy wants to give up all his tricks in order to gain custody of her, but Frankie convinces him they should play the con game one more time ... just one more time.<br />MATCHSTICK MEN is one of the best books I have read this spring. It is fast, full of twists and cons, cleanly and cleverly plotted, and peopled with characters who, while not brilliant, are sturdy enough to hold up their ends of the book. Angela especially will keep you reading. For me, the ending was a complete surprise and it left me thinking the whole book through again from a different angle. I found it a resounding and fitting wrapup for a book of cons, hinted at but unexpected.<br />If you like fast, absorbing, perfectly plotted little books of petty crime with a twist, MATCHSTICK MEN is a treasure I couldn't recommend more highly.	2003-02-13
US	45990772	RY06YE7MW22GJ	0609605844	154370008	Roadrunner: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Disappointing	Dell \\"Roadrunner\\" Fletcher used to play major league baseball. Now he's sitting at home with an injury, eating prescription drugs, storming out on his family ... and finally hitting his wife, Leah. Officer Angel Lopez, an old fan of Dell's, handles Leah's 911 call and takes Dell away to the police station, but that night when Leah calls the police, they have no record of Dell's arrest. Angel hurries to explain that he and Dell went out for doughnuts and a talk and Dell saw the error of his ways and promised to make it up. But now Dell is missing. And what does Angel want?<br />ROADRUNNER, Thomas's second novel, could have been a good story. All the necessary intrigue, characters, and opportunies were present. Unfortunately, they were left adrift without a credible plot. The entire segment of Dell's experiences after disappearing is over the top, and while Leah claims to want him back more than anything, she does virtually nothing to find him. She has all this money but never thinks of hiring a Private Investigator? And Angel, though an intriguing villian, has no concrete motivations for his increasingly egotistical and dangerous acts, unless we are really to believe he has become so ensnared with Leah and her money that he is willing to throw away his entire career to win her, though he knows he surely must be caught.<br />Unless you can appreciate a soap opera world and aren't put off by half baked plots and muddy conclusions, this novel probably isn't for you. However, the story does have some touching moments, some single lines that sing, and if you enjoy family oriented plots and appreciate the refreshing change of a cast of Black characters in this otherwise often White fiction world, ROADRUNNER has something to offer.	2003-02-10
US	45990772	R3O8MAX5UMZOYC	1882593669	956098994	The Boy in the Box: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A world gone mad	Poor Mr. Smith, who has just moved into his sister's apartment in New York City, is being attacked from all sides. His bizarre neighbor, Kogat Dezmun, carries on nearly unintelligible conversations with him about a young boy being kept naked in a wooden box. Dezmun's son, who insists he ISN'T Dezmun's son, tells Smith to leave the old man alone, but Smith has read in the newspaper about a four-year-old boy who has been abducted, and he is growing more and more convinced Dezmun knows something. Smith takes his story to the police, only to be assulted both phsycially and emotionally. He is told to go home and find a girl and drink wine and watch movies. Instead, he continues to search for this boy, finding some mysterious dealers who promise him things that never materalize. And then he is treated to a job interview that leaves his head spinning.<br />Frankly, the whole of THE BOY IN THE BOX left my head awhirl. While the book is a mere 210 pages long, the story could have easily been told in only a 100. The beginning chapters are slow, though eventually the torper leads the reader into an almost hypnotic state in which the many bizarre twists may seem a bit more believeable, though most assuredly are not. This book is not a mystery. It is not even a solid plot. Rather, it is a serious of fun house mirrors in which you see increasingly surreal portraits of both Smith and his world, and are left wondering which of them is sane, if either.<br />Readers interested in coherent plots and solid logic should look elsewhere, but for those of you hooked by edgy little books with haunting messages, THE BOY IN THE BOX will do nicely.	2003-02-09
US	45990772	R2XW84CGGGNDH4	0060197668	359681544	Blood Double	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fast and solid	On a March evening in San Francisco a dying man is dumped in Mercy Hospital's parking lot, and it doesn't take ER's head doctor, Carroll Monks, long to discover he's more than just your average overdosed junkie. Only minutes after the man is swept away by his physician and several tough looking bodyguards, the hospital is set on fire and vandalized, the man's blood samples gone. Soon Monks and his daughter, an intern at Mercy, are being targeted for what they know and forced to flee for their lives in search of answers.<br />BLOOD DOUBLE, Neil McMahon's second book about this tough but believable Carroll Monks, hooks the reader immediately and continues to be fast paced and full of fascinating scientific information on genetics. While the writing is not lyrical, it is solid for its genre, and while the story seldom stirs us deeply enough to laugh or cry, it escapes being shallow by allowing us a glimpse into the horrific lives of illegal immigrants forced into street slavery. There are some great action scenes near the end and the characters, thankfully, remain true to themselves. The villain may be no great surprise, but there's still a twist.<br />For readers interested in a different sort of medical thriller with a strong protagonist and some cutting edge genetics, BLOOD DOUBLE is a winner.	2003-02-07
US	45990772	R33BODY424SSH8	0743211375	124087136	From a Buick 8	Books	4	16	18	N	N	A cuddly King	The troopers of Troop D, Pennsylvania State Patrol, have picked up a strange car. At first glance it looks like a Buick, except it won't run, and tests soon prove it's anything but a normal car. Then it starts chucking things out its doors and trunk, flashing brilliant lights, changing the temperature in its shed, and committing a variety of other Stephen King shinanigans. Rumor has it, it's even eaten a man. Add to this mix a teenager obsessed with his father's death in the line of duty, and thus obsessed with this car.<br />After dabbling through portions of THE STAND and THE DARK HALF, FROM A BUICK 8 felt like stepping off an airplane in Florida -- warm and pleasant and safe. Yes, icky things materialize from this car and the poor dog doesn't have a fighting chance, but King spent so much time detailing life as a trooper that he seemed to have forgetten he was supposed to be writing horror. What I found here was only strange.<br />If you love King, FROM A BUICK 8 may be one of his last freestanding novels, so by all means grab it. The writing is good, the details impeccable, the boy's hero worship touching. But the horror? Well, suffice to say, dear reader, you can curl up in bed with this one. It won't bite.	2003-02-07
US	45990772	R2G4URMYUFOGBM	1882593596	955669448	Blindside: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Quick but shallow	Navy Commander Neal Olen, now retired, has a great wife and an important civilian job, but he made one slip four years ago, a one night stand with a seductive novelist, Angela Vance. Now Angela has cast him as a character in her tell-all novel, Navy Wench, and it's all there -- including that night. Neal is called back on active duty to face charges of adultery and \\"conduct unbecoming a gentleman\\" -- leaking military secrets. Neal doesn't remember the secrets, but he certainly remembers that night, and he knows all about prison -- where he's headed if he doesn't get help. And help is? Lethajoy Beltower, lesbian and lawyer.<br />Though only 204 pages long, BLINDSIDE didn't grab me until page 73 -- a long wait. And while Jim Lane has crafted a couple of great characters, especially Lethajoy, his writing lacks poetry. Only one line sang to me in the whole book. The plot is rushed, barebones and shallow, and other than a couple of perfunctory paragraphs about Neal's childhood and father, we learn little about him. However, Lane obviously knows the Navy and its laws, and the middle chapters contain a handful of courtroom scenes smashing enough to draw the reader in completely, if only for a moment.<br />Other than a couple of close calls with death, BLINDSIDE offers few surprises and no suspense. However, if you're stuck in a waiting room or on an airplane and need something light to read for a couple of hours, this tiny navy novel might do the trick.	2003-02-06
US	45990772	R1MPSJPNJ25L9T	0787947938	784607290	Treating Sexually Abused Boys: A Practical Guide for Therapists & Counselors	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent resource	Treating sexual abuse of any kind has got to be one of the more difficult tasks of therapists, counselors, parents, and teachers today, but, unfortunately, it is rapidly becomming more and more necessary as well, and this book does an excellent job at realisticly focusing on areas for treatment and successful methods to be used.<br />Since the treatment of boys is a fairly new concept, this book is an important resource and should not be overlooked. The activities are well thought out and have practical applications, as well as notes on how they are likely to be received by the patients and what difficulties to expect.<br />Highly recommended for anyone working with abused children.	2003-02-05
US	45990772	R8HNUBYDMILKP	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The absolute authority	In honor of the great William Strunk, I will attempt to heed one of the basic rules of this little book and omit needless words. So, in brevity....<br />The Elements of Style should be mandatory reading for all who dare to pick up a pen or pencil or sit at a keyboard.<br />The rules are simple, clearly explained, and highly effective.<br />E.B. White has softened the otherwise harsh tone (incurred by the brevity) by adding some chapters at the end on style and such and by touching up Mr. Strunk's thoughts here and there. Excellent job.<br />Read this book, read Stephen King's On Writing, write about a million words of your own for practice, and you'll be good to go.<br />Was that brief enough, William?	2003-02-05
US	45990772	R11O9J3QCQJKYD	0915684993	624339503	Another Way of Seeing	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Simple but moving	Lois Henderson's son, David, was born blind. Another Way of Seeing is the story of how long it took her to find this out, how she and her husband adjusted to the shock, and how they helped Davey grow to be everything he could be.<br />This is a true story and a wonderful book. However, it is written from a naive point of view (as Lois herself admits in the new preface), so I felt it lacked some of the insights that might be helpful to others undergoing the same experience. Still, it is a beautiful story.	2003-02-04
US	45990772	R5HRGW1O8PH8F	0553582135	899995514	Final Target (Wind Dancer)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Poorly crafted	Final Target is, at best, a dismal achievement. The conversation is trite and full of long passages of information that the reader needs to know but the characters would never discuss or should have  done so long ago. The plot takes many inconceivable turns, from the President putting a dangerous man so close to his beloved daughter, to the flight, to the twist where the lead character changes. The psychic element could have been interesting but it was portrayed badly, and I simply cannot believe that the three people in the world who have this talent would magically all appear in the same place at the same time ... like, huh? And as for the poor little girl ... I wanted her to get better, that was why I kept reading the story. But I never got to know her, never got to picture her face lying on the pillow, never got to touch her. Supposedly the book was full of her, but somehow I missed her.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	R2RJC3024IQDOJ	0871236060	826623127	Where Does a Mother Go to Resign?	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Mixed feelings	The first time I read this book, I was more conservative than I am today and I knew nothing about this alternate lifestyle or the people who live it. I found this book stunning. I laughed, cried, and was swept into Barbara's pain.<br />Unfortunately, somewhere along the line I became more liberal and when I picked up a copy of this book at a yardsale last year, thinking it would be interesting to read it again, I found myself wincing. I understand Barbara's pain; still, unless you are a seriously conservatively religious person, her sheer devastation will be hard to understand.<br />Yet Barbara has a gift. Her diary is full of it. For those parents stunned by a child's revelation, this book will be helpful.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	R3E1UKSHZ3DK4S	0451173678	783007603	The Moon Is Broken: A Mother's True Story (Signet)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Devastatingly sad	I read this book when I was young and impressionable, and it certainly made a tremendous impression on me. The Moon is Broken is dark, full of despair, the story of a woman and her daughter split apart by things deeper than any relationship can withstand. A story of pain.<br />I give it five stars because I still remember to this day the feeling of loss I had after reading it. The power behind this book is dark, overwhelmingly sad, wrenching ... but it is still power.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	R2JYP4RMZHBJ3F	0679894772	103130562	Seuss-isms for Success (Life Favors(TM))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Good old doctor seuss	I was given this clever little book for my birthday last year (a gentle hint, perhaps, to get me on the right path?), and while I can't imagine paying [$$$] for it, that's about the only criticism I can dredge up. Anything by the good doctor is brilliant, of course. Anything he touches is magic. And we will always laugh.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	R3KFDKV17UPPAI	0840758499	41148912	The Celebration Family	Books	2	3	4	N	N	I can't separate the book from what happened	Dennis and Diane Nason adopted over eighty children, as well as having some six or more biological children of their own. At the time this book was written, they had perhaps thirty of those children, all of which are pictured here, and their adoptions detailed in the various chapters. In this book, all seems idylic. All these children have been brought together and are being loved and cared for and respected and woven into a family -- a celebration family. And when I first read this book, I enjoyed it, even if it is not terribly well written. However, I now cannot separate this account from what happened some twelve years after it was written.<br />In 1995, Dennis and Diane Nason stood trial on charges of racketeering and abuse. Three of their children were dead, perhaps from neglect. Stories of cattle prods and cages were circulating. While the Nasons were acquitted from the charges that they deliberately harmed their children, they were convicted of racketeering, and all but three of their children were removed from their home. They are understandably disillusioned. Unfortunately, so am I.<br />Yes, the Celebration Family sounds good. It sounds right. I would like to believe the joy and christian good faith portrayed here. But I can't. I need the whole story. Although Diane says she is unlikely to write another book, I think she should. I think she should tell what really happened -- after it all fell apart.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	RAGZROFBY84YG	0671003348	937988197	Come the Spring (Clayborne Brothers)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good, but missing something	While I'm not a huge Western romance fan, I could see that Come the Spring has merit. Most of the characters, the men at least, seemed quite real and likeable, even amusing at times. But the women felt lacking, which seems strange since they were crafted by a woman, but that's the way they came across. I enjoyed reading about Cole, especially his interaction with the baby, Caleb, but didn't cheer with him over his pick of women.<br />I don't know, but I think I will try reading another of Garwood's books. Though her dialogue could use improvement, she has a lot of talent and it's obvious why she's so popular. I just didn't feel this book was everything it could have been.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	R1S2IT8EJRQ0JP	0399519483	471962116	A World of Baby Names	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Wow!	This book is the absolute best name book I have ever read. (How's that for a jacket blurb?) I went out and bought it as soon as I could and have never regretted it. Each chapter handles the names of a different country, culture, etc, with a few paragraphs at the beginning of each chapter detailing the naming customs of that particular people. No matter what your nationality, your baby will find her or his moniker here.<br />A tremendous resource for writers as well, when seeking the perfect name for your multinational characters (my position, since I have no baby).<br />Highly recommended.	2003-02-03
US	45990772	R3CEVWFMUM6ZUJ	0679741267	963351143	James A. Michener's Writer's Handbook: Explorations in Writing and Publishing	Books	2	4	8	N	N	A vanity book?	See, even the greats must revise!<br />Hey, I suppose it's interesting to read a guy's first drafts. Perhaps one can learn things about his psyche. But I certainly didn't learn much about writing, and in the last section of the book where all my supposed writing questions were answered, I found Michener pompous at best.<br />I look at it this way: even the greats write awful first drafts!	2003-02-02
US	45990772	R28TBXRXQU5SP1	0671523082	778118920	Flash	Books	2	7	10	N	N	This hurt me	Terrible dialogue. Everybody speaks in full sentences and is careful to tell each other everything the reader needs to know. Annoying hero and heroine. I did NOT fall in love with either of them. And the worst: a villian who explains the whole plot at the end of the book while stalking his victims.<br />Ouch!	2003-02-02
US	45990772	R1EJG9B5FQQ5SU	0380726289	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand: A Novel (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Patrick Kenzie returns	Darkness, Take My Hand is the second book in Dennis Lehane's series about Patrick Kenzie. The first book, A Drink Before the War, was also Lehane's first novel and it won the Shamus award. Patrick Kenzie is a cynical, often funny, sometimes poignant Boston PI who works out of an old church belfry with his partner Angie Gennaro, and who now has a girlfriend, Grace, who has a daughter, Mae.<br />In the beginning, Patrick is contacted by a woman who has, among other things, anonymously received a photograph of her son in the mail and is concerned about his safety. Patrick and Angie tail her son for several weeks, and it isn't long before they're worried about their safety as well. Throw in the Mafia, the FBI, and a few serial killers, and you have Darkness, Take My Hand.<br />As with the first in the series, this book is a startling portrait of Boston, beautifully drawn by a man who grew up in the areas he writes about. But Darkness falls just short of War in most other respects. The plot is messy, tangled in places, and my credulity was strained by how far reaching the web is which has ensnared Patrick. There are many killers in this book. However, the lead characters are real and sympathetic. We care about them. We don't want the darkness to take them away, even as it takes their hands...<br />Regrettably, I have found most seconds in a series fall somewhat short of the first. Darkness, Take My Hand is no exception. But it is also funny, sad, and very, very dark. Worth reading.	2003-02-02
US	45990772	R2FVO160ENFZ1V	1582971943	218116663	Snoopy's Guide to the Writing Life	Books	5	2	5	N	N	I laughed till I cried!	In this book's prologue, we are given a heartwarming view of Snoopy's creator, Charles Schulz, which heightens the effect of the following comic strips on the writing life. I could not stop laughing. Schulz knew what he was talking about and put into Snoopy's head all the thoughts of us aspiring and expiring writers. The accompanying text to the cartoons, contributed by well known writers, was not nearly as good, but there were some interesting facts. In any case, Snoopy didn't need any help. He makes this book all on his adorable lonesome.<br />Hilarious and right on point!	2003-02-02
US	45990772	R3OM2FENK6Y6J0	0896380076	563300201	I Never Saw the Sun Rise: The Private Diary of a Fifteen-Year-Old Recovering from Drugs and Alcohol	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book changed my life	I was sixteen when I found a battered, old copy of this book in our local library. I pulled it out and started reading ... and could not stop. The girl who wrote this diary was fifteen, addicted to drugs and alcohol, and an artist able to speak the unspeakable, draw the undrawable. At the time when I read this diary, I was suicidal and could not stop the things in my head. In these pages I found someone I could identify with, someone who had felt my pain, and who had come out the other side. Someone who had called herself a witch, slept in her backyard once to get away from it all, fell in love with an older man, loved her horse more than anything, and was painfully, tormentedly, honest. This book changed my world forever. I wish every teenager could read it.	2003-02-02
US	45990772	R22LOT3B04WNT7	0609610252	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another look at madness	Ruth Rendell has always tackled madness with remarkable skill, and in Adam and Eve and Pinch Me she brings us in close to Minty, a young woman suffering from obsessive compulsive disorder and being pushed closer and closer to the edge by voices in her head and hallucinations which at times appear as real to her as the people around her.<br />Minty is not the only character in this book. There is also Jock, or Jeff, or Jerry Leach, depending on whom you ask, a rather charming young man who befriends women, only to disappear with their money. He has befriended Minty, only to desert her by pretending to get himself killed in a train wreck. Before that, he has befriended, and in one case married, a whole string of other women, several of whom find their way into this book, along with their own sets of problems. But the story belongs to Minty. It begins and ends with her, and with the horrible but inevitable acts she commits while battling her hallucinations. She knows Jeff is dead, but his ghost won't leave her alone and she's desperate. She knows she must get rid of him ... and she does.<br />Adam and Eve and Pinch Me did not blow me away. In fact, there were times when it did not seem like Rendell's writing. Many of her characters came across more like caricatures than real people, especially Matthew and his wife. I did not find myself growing especially attached to any of the bizarre parade marching through these pages. I did, however, read the book all the way through, something that doesn't happen so much now that I've gotten more fussy, and, even if I did find disbelief hard to suspend at times, I was never bored. Rendell is certainly a master at her craft, and while Adam and Eve and Pinch Me is not her best work, it is still an excellent read.	2003-02-01
US	45990772	R12HPKORH6M3UI	044022179X	710984646	Dirty White Boys	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Raw and absorbing	From the first line of Dirty White Boys, it's obvious this book is not for everyone. It is full of incredible violence, bloodshed, and profanity. It also has a peculiar raw power. Ruthless Lamar Pye, his mentally handicapped cousin Odell, and a spineless intellect named Richard Peed have broken out of prison, murdering three people on their way. Bud Pewtie, an Oklahoma State Trooper, is already deep in a relationship with his partner, Ted's, wife when he and Ted are called to help search for the convicts. Inevitably, the two groups meet. Ted and Bud encounter far more than they're ready for, but so does Lamar, and the result is ... Dirty White Boys.<br />Stephen Hunter did a remarkable job with this book. It is very well written, fast-paced, and absorbing. It is not without flaws -- I found the brief paragraphs from Odell's perspective hard to believe at best, and from my experience working with mentally handicapped people, I know they can often tell right from wrong as well as the rest of us, even if they go about it a bit differently -- still, the characters in Dirty White Boys are not stereotyped. The bad guys are not all bad, the good guys not all good, and the results are woven seemlessly together.<br />An excellent read.	2003-02-01
US	45990772	R1361JVWL8CYY9	0553282352	151918758	The Day Before Midnight	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hunter's saving	Stephen Hunter's first novel, The Master Sniper, sold reasonably well, but then he bombed out on his next two books. With this book, The Day Before Midnight, he redeemed his career.<br />I would try to reduce the plot to a nice little sentence here, but there is simply too much plot for that. Suffice to say, some big bad guys take over a nuclear missle silo in Maryland and the U.S. government has until midnight to stop them or they will fire the missle and take out Russia's major cities, starting World War III.<br />The writing style is totally different. It's almost as if Hunter wrote this book with his tongue way over in one cheek ... everything is stated as if it's supposed to make us laugh, and quite often it does. Even the terror is funny. And every time the good guys solve a problem, another one pops right up in its place, throughout the entire book. Hunter's law: if something can go wrong, it should. That's not to say this book isn't entertaining. It's great. You know the bad guys can't possibly win, so you can sit back and enjoy the millions of ways Hunter has found to trip the good guys.<br />I don't know much about nuclear missles, but the book seemed well researched to me. The details were convincing. I liked the part about the tunnel rats from Vietnam because I do know a little about that and it came across very real. And what happened to the girls' mother bothered me, so Hunter can create pathos. But still, this book just left me laughing ... especially the way Hunter found to keep his second bomb from going off. If you don't mind a bit of corn and coincidence, it's hilarious.<br />A great read, very entertaining.	2003-01-30
US	45990772	R1SJN8UBD3HROO	0310348609	578136769	Following Joey Home	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The saddest book I have ever read	Following Joey Home is a mother's diary of the three weeks immediately preceeding her teenage son's death from cystic fibrosis, and then his death itself. This book is incredible ... and awful.<br />The first time I read it, I could not stop crying for a week. It will cut your heart out and leave you bleeding, wishing you could find a cure for cystic fibrosis and all the other terminal illnesses that claim the lives of innocent children, or at least wishing you could bring Joey back.<br />Because I can do neither, I will never be able to read it again.	2003-01-30
US	45990772	RW1GS5I9VHLO5	0515131105	965921530	A Gathering of Spies	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A solid thriller	Katarina Heinrich is a German spy in America. Winterbotham is an English professor in England ... but his wife is a prisoner in Poland. Katarina has hit upon an American secret she is afraid may win the war, and she will do anything to get it back to her homeland -- or will she? And Winterbotham has been asked by his government to participate in Operation Doublecross, by pretending to be a traitor to his country and infiltrating Germany, offering up carefully orchestrated information in return for everything his eyes and ears can find. He agrees, but for only one reason. He will do anything to get his wife back. Or will he?<br />A Gathering of Spies is a first novel, and as such it's brilliant. Yet, while there's certainly no lack of action or bloodshed -- too much bloodshed sometimes, it seems -- and while the stakes seem high, I did not find this book overly gripping. I enjoyed it, but I never really felt the lead characters were in danger. I had a comfortable feeling. In a way it was nice, because so many thrillers flog their leads most thoroughly, sometimes ad nauseum. And I did care about both Heinrich and Winterbotham, an accomplishment on Altman's part since the two are so much at odds.<br />The details about Germany were very interesting and the 1945's setting had me convinced. I could taste, smell, and see the setting, and I did not hit any of those long and eye blurring paragraphs that some novelists love and which belong in travelogues, not novels of intrigue.<br />In summary, A Gathering of Spies is well written, fast paced, clearly plotted, and well peopled. And while it may not be a nail biter, it is still an excellent read.	2003-01-29
US	45990772	R24G94F2YB2D9H	0425140032	382458927	Dragon Tears	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Supernatural thriller	Detective Harry Lyon and his partner, Connie, are opposites; he likes order and she chaos, he safety and she danger. But both have the same reaction when they discover they are being stalked by an unseen force that sends monsterous golums with red eyes to torment them and tell them they'll be dead before dawn. They resolve to find this force ... and kill it.<br />The quest -- and the book -- take the whole night. One of Harry's friends is horribly murdrered; a homeless man and a woman and her son are also threatened; soon \\"Ticktock\\" -- the name Harry and Connie have given this monster, since ticktock is his favorite word when taunting them -- has heightened the game by freezing time. Ticktock cannot be killed by bullets. He cannot be burnt by fire. He can appear anywhere and everywhere without notice. The childishly sadistic force behind him must be having a high old time.<br />Then, of course, as in (it seems almost) every Dean Koontz book, there is a dog. A very smart dog.<br />The combined result of all these factors is a chilling, unreal, slightly nauseating, but ultimately compelling horror story. The subject of a supernatural villian made me queasy, but both Harry and Connie saved the story. They are well drawn and engaging and fit admirably together, creating a team that, though beaten and battered, manage to prevail.<br />The reason I gave this book only three stars? It would have read faster if Koontz had stuck more to Harry and Connie's point of view. I found most of his asides unneccessary and distracting. The dog was okay, if you're into supersmart pets, but I could have done without a lot of the villian's perspective. In Ticktock and his creator, Koontz has created a bad guy horrible enough that you really don't want to spend that much time with him.<br />All told, not a bad book, if you don't mind the supernatural aspects (and if you're reading Koontz, you probably don't).	2003-01-29
US	45990772	R6VLDEF36DOC7	0875885179	342869750	Teddy Bear Art: How to Design & Make Great Teddy Bears	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Excellent	As a professional teddy bear artist who has sold internationally, I must say I owe a lot of my education to this book. While I have read just about every teddy bear making book out there (once you get started, it's addictive), I never found another quite as good as Teddy Bear Art. In this guide, Jenniger Laing addresses the true spirit of making artist teddy bears -- designing your own patterns.  You can never be a complete artist until you can do this, and Laing will give you a good push in the right direction. She discusses each aspect of each pattern piece individually, shows you how to make changes in your finished product by altering the pattern, and finally tells you how to put all the pieces you've created together to make sure they'll fit -- before cutting your valuable mohair. She also addresses series of bears and ideas of names, collections of materials, and more. Again, this is the best book I have read on creating your own patterns from scratch and truly becoming a teddy bear artist.<br />However, if you are simply seeking already made patterns for bears to make, this is not the book for you. There are only three patterns in this book and they are not the primary goal of this book.<br />For those who want to learn how a teddy bear is really created, I cannot recommend this book highly enough.	2003-01-27
US	45990772	R2I750FAQQVF4F	0671018892	286436198	Downtick	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An incredible debut thriller	David Johnson is a big name on Wall Street. Jonah Roberts is a farmer in Maine. Both men are being stalked by a psychopath they met once in college and haven't thought about since. The story that follows can only be described as amazing.<br />Downtick has no dull moments and is full of interesting police procedure, an insider's view of Wall Street, and a very accurate portrayal of rural Maine. Regan Ashbaugh keeps upping the stakes until by the end of Downtick the reader would like to jump into the pages and catch this psychopath himself. The whole book is full of twists and turns and the last Part is suspense at its best.<br />Regan Ashbaugh is not a literary writer and Downtick contains some cliches. However, his characters are not stereotyped, his vilian is terrifying, and his suspense is perfect.<br />I have read this thriller twice. Highly recommended.	2003-01-27
US	45990772	R1NS0P875QR4BC	0385311958	569897236	Brules	Books	3	3	23	N	N	Overblown	I do not often read westerns, however I thought I would give a book like Brules, touted to be more literature than genre, a try. I'm sorry I did.<br />Brules is too long, too wordy, and unnecessarily racist. Yes, the white men and the indians didn't love each other. We know that. But having that driven home without redemption for over 400 of the 500 pages is nauseating at best. Brules himself is mostly without redemption. There is little to love in a man who views his woman as a beautiful piece of flesh and shoots and kills people to get whatever he needs. Yes, I'm sure there were lots of cowboys like that out there, but do we really want to spend a whole 500 and some pages in the company of one?<br />That said, Brules is fairly well written, and Harry Combs did manage to create one character I really cared about--the young man we meet at the beginning of the book and to whom Brules tells his story, Steven Cartwright. I hear Combs wrote a whole book about him, The Legend of the Painted Horse, and perhaps I will go give that a try.<br />All told, Brules is probably a good read for Western readers. I think the rest of us, however, will find it a bit nauseating.	2003-01-26
US	45990772	R1ACFNYKEWB1V5	0198602987	57723148	Take Off in French (With Audio CDs)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Excellent learning tool	I started learning French because one of the characters in a story I am writing turned out to be French. Once I got a taste of the language I was hooked and began looking for ways to help myself learn. I first got Take Off In French (book and CDs) from the library and immediately knew I was going to have to buy it to get everything out of it. There is an incredible amount of audio here, all of it very realistic. I have been listening to French radio stations online and was delighted to discover the speakers sounded exactly the same as those on the CDs in this course. I was able to begin picking out words on the radio immediately and then phrases. What a thrill!<br />After I returned this course to the library and before I purchased it, I checked another course out of the library to see if it would be any better. Sufice to say, Take Off In French is far superior to all of the other courses I have tried. I cannot recommend it highly enough. Coupled with listening to (and or) conversing with native speakers, this course should allow you to learn all the skills you need.<br />Even before the lessons start there is a whole section on the various different pronunciations and the alphabet, which I did not find on the other course I tried. Very helpful. I went back to it often. The first lesson started with greetings, the second with simple manners (please, thank you, etc), and the lessons progressed to things like directions, colors, fruits and vegetables, family members, etc, each lesson including real dialogue so you learn to pick the words out of sentences, rather than hearing them on their own.<br />Hightly recommended!	2003-01-26
US	45990772	R11ETZ6LA22YG6	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good first book	A Drink Before the War was my first introduction to both the world of Patrick Kenzie and Dennis Lehane, and I am sure I will be back for more. Patrick Kenzie is a cynical, often funny, sometimes poignent Boston PI who works out of an old church belfrey (no bats!) with his partner, Angie Gennaro.<br />As in most PI books, in the first chapter Kenzie makes contact with someone who wants to hire him (a senator) and gets a case (find missing documents). But the missing documents aren't what they seem and neither is the senator. Neither, for that matter, is A Drink Before the War.<br />This book is more than just a PI story. It is a graphic, often painful description of two sides of Boston, the rich and the poor, the black and the white. Lehane grew up in the areas he describes in this book and it shows. I never once doubted that he knew what he was talking about. As the book progresses, Kenzie escapes death several times and is soon wanted by not one but two Boston gangs, gangs that have determined to kill each other.<br />Enter the war.<br />For a first book, this novel is tremendous. It is funny, sad, thoughtful, and honest. And it is worth reading.	2003-01-26
US	45990772	R4RRIQCEB2V5C	1581150997	878595403	Writer's Guide to Queries, Pitches & Proposals	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A very sound, informative book	With chapters on everything from Fiction Proposals to selling your Syndicate Column, this book will be a big help to anyone seeking to inprove their chances of getting published. The book has 23 chapters, one which deals with succeeding in a scheduled online chat, another with tips for international writers. There are many sample queries, a full sample fiction synopsis, anatomy of a synopsis, etc. I found this book very helpful and highly recommend it.	2003-01-25
US	45990772	R143E0LYDH4ZXW	0345434498	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Predictable	This book started very well and I read word for word for about seven or eight chapters. At that point, I was pretty sure I could already write the basic synopsis for the rest of the book, so I flipped to the last chapter to test this theory and found I was right.<br />We have the lead character, who has been in a situation like this before that ended horribly, therefore we know that this time he's going to make it and come out the other end, in order to redeem himself, heal, etc.<br />We have his wife, who he's separated from and who he wants to get back together with, but he just doesn't have it ... another plot in which to redeem himself.<br />We have three young bad guys who really don't know what they're doing. And we like them just a little bit because they are so young and scared, but we know they'll get what they deserve.<br />And then .... and THEN .... we throw in the mafia.<br />WHAT?????<br />Hostage isn't a badly written book. It isn't even terribly boring. But there is nothing special here. This is the first Robert Crais I have read, and I may very well take a poke at some of his earlier books, but I have had enough of this one.	2003-01-25
US	45990772	RN48NJPQHJ08	0385492588	197113220	Nobody's Safe	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Mediocre	Nobody's Safe, a book ultimately centering around some mysterious secret that the U.S. government has been protecting at all costs since World War II, starts out with a bang. The first several chapters are brilliant, involving a master thief strutting his stuff while we can only gape in wonder. From there on, however, Nobody's Safe becomes confusing, distant, and poorly written -- all while remaining fast paced. To the very end, this book has few paragraphs longer than four or five sentences and will not turn you off with a lack of white space. However, be warned ... the secret for which you must wade through some three hundred pages to reach does NOT live up to its expectations.<br />On the whole, a good enough read that I tore straight through the first half. A bad enough read that I only skimmed the last half.<br />On a second note, I just noticed that this book appears to no longer be in print. Perhaps that reviews it better than any words I have used.	2003-01-23
US	45990772	R3SAKEI3T6G77U	0306452758	926542288	The Ulcer Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very informative	For those of us suffering from both known and unknown stomach maladies (in my case the wonderful catchall dyspepsia, for which there is no cure -- see this book to have that driven home in full force!) The Ulcer Story is highly informative. Although it is written in quite a professional tone -- no layperson here -- still, I believe anyone can understand it and benefit from the many detailed descriptions of treatments, as well as the photographs.<br />I highly recommend this book.	2003-01-23
US	45990772	R1XLMSFWFNYMYO	1572240393	144295355	Conquering Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and Other Repetitive Strain Injuries: A Self-Care Program	Books	5	6	8	N	N	If you have carpel tunnel, buy this book!	I cannot suggest this book strongly enough. A year ago, I got mild carpel tunnel and severe tendonitis from teddy bear making and typing. I had tingling in the fingers of my left hand. After one day of doing these exercises, the tingling was gone. A year later it has now returned, so I am doing the exercises again and getting the same relief.<br />Also, I recommended this book to a friend with carpel tunnel. A month ago I asked her how she was doing and she said she was now fine. Any time she had some symptoms, she simply did the exercises and the symptoms went away.<br />This book deserves ten stars. The exercises are very easy, can be done at work or home, in bed or even in the car (some of them!) Definitely try them before you consider surgery or any drastic treatments.	2003-01-20
US	45990772	R13M7TE4XD3PCH	089879921X	294262710	Formatting & Submitting Your Manuscript (Writer's Market Library)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Read this before you submit your work	It may save you some rejections. The instructions are very clear, concise, and cover all ranges of manuscripts. Since I am working on submitting novels, this was the section I read the most thoroughly. There are two sample query letters to study, part of a synopsis, a cover letter, and lots on formatting the manuscript itself. I highly recommend this. You'll learn how to make your work look more professional and more appealing.	2003-01-20
US	45990772	RU5FN5HBB9J7F	0670765694	377751066	Why Me	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Comic but slow	Probably this book just wasn't my style, but I found it cheesy at best. I like humorous crime fiction and looked forward to making Dortmunder's acquaintance, only to discover this book really wasn't all that much about him, but spent more time dwelling on various FBI agents and bumbling policemen. I was hoping to follow Dortmunder through a series of escapades, but after the initial burglary, nothing much happened.<br />However, the book was short and the writing style excellent. Westlake certainly has enormous talent. While I can't recommend you rush out and read this book, if you like Lawrence Block's humorous books, you might very well like Why Me.	2003-01-19
US	45990772	R6ZVTQSD57XL6	0451206525	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good But Not Stunning	I had no trouble getting into this book, read it in only two days, and enjoyed it quite a bit. However, in my opinion it isn't nearly as good as Mortal Fear. There were times when I forgot Jordan Glass wasn't a guy. I believe that it is possible for an author to write from the perspective of the opposite sex, but it isn't easy, and Greg Iles hasn't quite managed yet. However, I did enjoy it that he brought Baxter and Lenz back from Mortal Fear and that they had not changed character at all. Good carry over job. The ending was difficult to believe and left me with a lot of questions. In fact, I skipped several of the next-to-last chapters.<br />All told, a good book. But if you really want to be blown away, read Mortal Fear.	2003-01-19
US	45990772	R2GHP3XJEPH49M	0745162347	780090665	Live Flesh	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Brilliant!	Though I must admit I might not have made it through this book if I'd read it (I need constant action), listening to it was a real experience. It was slow at the beginning, but I quickly got swept into Victor's world, and felt his humiliation, cringed at his perceptions, and rooted for him . . . for awhile. And then I absolutely hated him. Which, I daresay (can you tell I've been listening to too many British books?), is just what the author intended. Or at least she won't mind.<br />I thought the book was well read and all the characters were convincing. My favorite was David Fleetwood. I felt I knew him very well, even though only one chapter was from his perspective.<br />Rendell has written many wonderful books, and this is one of the best. I highly recommend it.	2003-01-12
US	45990772	R3584TVKCVEI77	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	5	4	6	N	N	I've Read This Book Twice	That's probably the best recommendation I can give any book. The first time I was absolutely blown away by Mortal Fear. I could not stop reading and I still thought about it months afterward. There's only one other thriller I've ever read that did that to me (Downtick), so I can only thank Greg Iles for writing such an incredible book.<br />The characters are extremely well portrayed and have few &quot;design&quot; flaws. The bad guy is the most flawed, I must say, but that doesn't trip the story up much. Harper Cole's wife, Drewe, is worth reading the book all by herself. I can think of any number of other authors who would have had her split and run, but not Greg Iles.<br />I will certainly be reading more of his books and I suggest you try them too.	2003-01-12
US	45990772	RZEJLD1MGFWH7	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Good Beginning But....	something went wrong, and I'm not quite sure what, either. My favorite part of the book was where Chris was being chased through the woods after leaving the mortuary. I thought, this is gonna be great. I kept waiting for it to get that great again, and it didn't, and eventually I started skipping pages, which may be why I still have this nagging question at the end: WHY DIDN'T THEY JUST CREMATE HIS DAD? I still don't know.<br />This was my very first Koontz book, and I was pleased enough that I will probably read another. But I wasn't blown away either. I think he has a great deal of talent, but needs to spend more time polishing his work.	2003-01-12
US	45990772	R1WAAIF6CFM8FW	1891620428	517479993	A Place Called Waco: A Survivor's Story	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Yet Another Waco	A nonfiction book of this sort is the most difficult to review because there are so many factors to consider. About the writing style: I felt it was quite good (thus four stars), but I would have liked the story to move along faster. Much of the book could have been condensed, leaving room for all of the things that were left out (and I'm convinced a whole bunch of stuff was).<br />The author seemed determined to show how it was rational for him to haved joined this group, but he failed. I kept reading between the lines thinking, WHAT WAS HE THINKING? This is not an objective report. This does not tell you what really happened at Waco. But perhaps that is not the author's fault. I doubt any book on the subject CAN be objective. What those of us who weren't involved must do is read everything we can on the subject and draw our own, hopefully rational conclusions. A lot of people made mistakes in Waco. David Thibodeau is no exception.	2003-01-12
US	45990772	R3G4TT9Z8DHRAL	0446606081	198340912	The Ax	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Well Written but Disgusting	I actually read this book. Now that I'm done, I really don't want to admit that, but the writing was too good to put it down, even though I grew to thoroughly hate the lead character. I kept hoping something bad would happen to him. I kept thinking up the possible endings that could cause this book to justify itself. The actual ending was the only one I never thought of. And the only one I can't condone.	2003-01-09
US	45990772	RD0R9JZM5UTDG	0066212502	241425143	Blowback	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very fast action	This book moved along very quickly, which is something I appreciate, since I hate wading through long and useless pages of description. I did have a little trouble believing some of the heros actions, like when he comes home to find his girlfriend murdered. Why didn't he give his name when he called 911? And how could he possibly leave if he really cared about her? I also found it hard to believe that someone working in the white house would be so phsyically fit and good with a gun. On the whole, however, the book was interesting, packed with very readable action scenes, like car chases. A good read if you aren't interested in a great deal of depth and you don't mind that the main character makes all these &quot;heroic&quot; choices, rather than realistic ones.	2002-10-14
US	45990772	R2TE6HNLOYT3LZ	0812571568	561230088	An Educated Death (Thea Kozak)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great read	I loved this book--not for the plot, which comes across as immature a good deal of the time--but for the interplay between the main characters. Yes, the author tends to make Thea describe her feelings too us way too much (we don't need half the details we get!), and yes, she ends up chosing having her way over listening to her boyfriend's VERY REASONABLE concerns for her, but I still loved it. Thea is bright, sassy, has a great sense of humor, and doesn't let anybody walk on her. Don't expect too much depth or heart string tugging, but a great read if you want to laugh a lot.	2002-10-14
US	45990772	R3LNNTSLDHK1UE	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Been there, read that	I have to say, this series is getting stale. Unless Janet Evanovich can invent some new twists to throw in her next books, we might as well just reread the first four books over and over. Nothing new has happened since then, except in each book I wait the entire time for Stephanie to get together with one or the other of her two hot hunks, and keep getting mad when she doesn't manage.<br />I am wondering if Janet doesn't have a formula on her wall somewhere telling her exactly how to write her books: A car must blow up on page ninety, a bail jumper must foil Stephanie on page one twenty, and so on.<br />On the plus side, Stephanie Plum is fun, unflappable, good hearted, and every once in a while she even has a serious moment, when she actually can connect with the reader on a deaper level and make you think about things.	2002-10-14
US	45990772	RY0TLNR0CS14X	0380813394	505180381	Beautiful Child	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Different from her others	While I read this book straight from beginning to end and thought it excellent, I have to say it doesn't have the same raw emotional power of Hayden's earlier works. She seems to have toned her style down, become a bit more rote. I think this might be partly because the first half of this book is more filler than actual story, a means of getting to the ending, which is the part that is really about Venus, and in my mind, the best part of the book.	2002-10-04
US	45990772	R2GWTJZ6A8L4X	1570717257	250905833	Man and Boy	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good start, then slowed down	Harry Silver has a great life. A lovely wife, a cute little boy, and a great job in the television world. All he needs is a sports car to celebrate his 30th birthday. And, as it turns out, a one night stand with a co-worker.<br />His wife finds out. We knew she would. And she leaves him ... and her son. Harry instantly becomes a single parent, with only his own parents to help him find out how.<br />Man and Boy started out great, interesting and amusing, and I read the first chapter with high expectations, but from there on it was a downhill slide, especially once I discovered all of Harry's tribulations were brought on by his own infidelity and his apparent inability to realize that or truly make amends. The writing is decent, but the plot meanders and finally turns into more of a story about Harry and his father's relationship than about Harry and his son. While the book does have some very touching moments, I kept looking back at the author profile, expecting it to say somewhere that Tony Parsons was recently divorced, the father of a young son, etc, etc, because I had the feeling the author wrote Man and Boy because of a grudge against someone, namely an ex-wife.<br />I can't really recommend this book, although it does have some good parts between Harry and his father and if those strike a cord with you, you might enjoy Man and Boy.	2002-10-04
US	45990772	R1VPLAA5M6YGJP	1565121686	874937184	Fay: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Short on plot, but a beautiful style	Fay, a character who appears briefly in Joe, is seventeen years old and has run away from her family in the back woods of Mississippi. She is niave and penniless, but determined to leave the abuse behind. She meets up with some boys, who hurt her ... she meets up with a state trooper, who takes her home ... she meets up with his former lover, and has to run away again.<br />Fay is a slow book, subtle, reminding us of the unrushed, poverty stricken south. It is an incredibly detailed book. And it is one of the few books I have ever read simply because I wanted to enjoy how the author could string words together. Larry Brown's power of description is like none other. His ability to capture exact feelings and details left me both stunned and willing to forgive his inability to plot and his seeming obsession with characters drinking beer and smoking cigarettes.<br />If you're seeking nonstop action, don't look to Fay for it. But if you appreciate beauty, she has lots to offer.	2002-10-04
US	45990772	RLTCU0WCZV43M	0375725261	694000010	Dead and Gone: A Burke Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not Bad	This is the first Burke novel I've read. I picked it up because it was listed as being about the prevention of child abuse, which is near and dear to my heart. I found it different from my usual reading (Kellerman, for example), but liked it just the same. I got lost frequently but fell in love with Burke, despite his taste for blood. I wish the book had been a bit more about children, though I enjoyed discovering how Burke survived his childhood. I'm just trying to remember if he has a first name....	2001-12-17
US	45990772	RL5VZGWVM2305	055357227X	357027775	The Web	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Not Up To His Usual	Having just finished Over The Edge, I can't believe the same author wrote The Web. This book lacks the intensity and drive I've come to expect from Kellerman. I could not get into it and on page 40 or so still nothing of interest had happened. I kept skipping pages, hoping I would get to the &quot;real&quot; story soon, but I didn't. If you are a diehard Kellerman fan, by all means read this book, but don't expect to find the interesting relationship between Milo and Alex or any of the usual psychological intrigue because it's just not there.	2001-11-25
US	45990772	R14QIJGVPUR4I0	0451178017	828611048	Over the Edge (Alex Delaware, No 3)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One Of His Best	I haven't read all of Jonathan Kellerman's books and usually lose interest three quarters of the way through, but I found Over The Edge great right through the perfect ending. The main characters come across as very believeable, although the secondary cops and bad guys seemed stereotpyed. I found myself fitting into Alex Delaware's thought patterns with no trouble and I managed to hang on through all the plot twists without getting lost or bored. I think the only parts I skipped were his long descriptions of people and places. My one real annoyance with the book was that the reader didn't get to know Jamey better, because I would have liked to.	2001-11-22
US	45990772	R2Z379CF199SUW	0312262078	929448605	Muskrat Courage	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good beginning but slow	I had no trouble getting into this book and was looking forward to a good read, but about a third of the way through the plot slowed down and I grew increasingly bored until the ending, which I read but found implausible. All in all, I thought the writing and style were good but I didn't get attached to any of the characters and didn't find myself caring about the outcome.	2001-11-15
