US	46033303	R5CLTVQPGUI8S	1594200033	464600964	Origins of the Crash: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The Naked 90's	In Origins of the Crash, Roger Lowenstein has written a fascinating account of the late 90's stock market bubble and subsequent collapse.  The overriding theme of the book is that the culture of \\"shareholder value\\" was twisted from creating true long-term value  into an obsession with the daily ups and downs of the companies' stock prices.  It's an interesting way to view things and should prove thought provoking to many.  Lowenstein makes a compelling case that the scandals of the past several years are not the work of just a few bad actors, but rather were symptomatic of widespread failures throughout all levels of business, government and the public.  The cast of villains is extensive including the now common ones like Ken Lay (along with Skilling and Fastow), Jack Grubman, Bernie Ebbers (and Scott Sullivan) and Henry Blodget, but also includes the complicity of weak boards (and overall lax corporate governance), conflicted accountants and lawyers and an investing public (both individual and professional) that was too busy making money to worry about any of it.<br />I am not sure how much new reporting there is in this book... much of it is pulling together various stories that have been widely reported on.  But it is put together artfully into a compelling narrative.  It was fascinating to watch Michael Jensen, who was one of the earliest advocates of the use of stock options, eventually turn on his own creation.  The section on Enron, while obviously not as extensive as some of the works devoted to the subject, is one of the best condensed accounts I have seen.<br />I do have a few quibbles with the book though.  First, it winds up being something of a polemic.  Reading Mr. Lowenstein's book, you get the distinct impression that there was not a single positive thing that happened at any time during the 90's.  I found myself wondering if any companies managed to get it right... and if so, how and why?  Second, in highlighting the abuses of options at the executive level, I think Mr. Lowenstein gives short shrift to the positive effects they can have on the lower levels of an organization.  In the same way, he glosses over that there are some justifiable reasons for not expensing options.  Finally, I question some of his comments about deregulation.  He argues that the deregulation of telecom went to far or was perhaps even a bad thing.  And yet, the purpose of regulation is not to protect the value of companies, it is to ensure access at the most reasonable costs possible.  By that standard, deregulation of telecom should be seen as a success.  Sure, lots of capital was destroyed and many companies failed, but it is not the government's job to prevent that.<br />But those issues aside, the book will stand as one of the more definitive accounts of the excesses of the 90's and Mr. Lowenstein's case against the culture of shareholder value will hopefully inspire some new thinking amongst executives, boards and investors.  In short, I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in recent market/business history.	2004-01-24
US	46033303	R3IGALK0DHVAV0	0393041425	317768051	Six Degrees: The Science of a Connected Age	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An Excellent Look at the Science of Networks	Duncan Watts' book Six Degrees is a fascinating look at the early days of a \\"new\\" science.  The book takes its title from Six Degrees of Separation (or Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon if you prefer) and examines the small-world concept in a number of different networks....both social and technological.  The book also explains the research that indicates that we should expect many, if not most, networks to demonstrate such properties.<br />The book is also a wonderful look at the process of scientific discovery.  It highlights the growing importance of interdisciplinary work in tackling many of today's problems.  Physicists and mathematicians may have much to say on this new science, but especially when looking at human networks, the social scientists have their own unique contributions to make.  You also get to see the \\"small world\\" in action as chance encounters play an important role in the story.  <br />I also agree with several of the other critiques of an earlier review about the author's arrogance or lack thereof.  I thought Mr. Watts was very generous in highlighting the contributions of both his predecessors as well as his contemporaries.  Even noting several times that he should have thought of something, but hadn't.  That said, is Mr. Watts enthusiastic about and proud of his work?  Absolutely.  And I think that is great... we ought to love what we do for a living and be genuinely excited about sharing it with others.  Only time will tell how important this new science of networks turns out to be.  But I am glad that Mr. Watts chose to write this book and I recommend it highly.	2003-05-06
US	46033303	R202ZXCVKAXUUL	0793136644	477857009	Storyselling for Financial Advisors :  How Top Producers Sell	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Something for Everyone	No matter how long you have been in the financial world, I suspect you will find something useful in this excellent book.  As a financial professional, a strong analytical side is imperative... but this but book is a great reminder that you need to connect with your clients and prospects on other levels as well.  For veteran sales people, much of this will probably be old hat, but there are lots of specific examples, many of which I have begun to incorporate into my own presentations.  Even one good idea will more than compensate for the cost of the book and your time and I suspect that most people will get far more than one.  I encourage anyone involved in direct client contact to make the investment in this book.	2003-04-09
US	46033303	R2VE0WE3J8FZQO	1860468357	749038842	Death and the Penguin	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Fascinating Book	Death and the Penguin is an excellent novel that gives you a first hand look at a collapsing society.  We are taken to a world where zoos sell exotic animals because they cannot afford to keep them, where paramedics need to be bribed to find room for a dying man in a hospital and where gang warfare is commonplace.<br />I was especially pleased to discover that Misha, the penguin of the title, is a real character in the book as well as having important symbolic purpose.  The other characters are not as vividly drawn as in some novels, but that seems appropriate for the setting in which they find themselves.  <br />I was slightly unsatisified by the ending, but overall this book was well worth reading, even if you do not often gravitate to foreign fiction.	2002-03-12
US	46033303	R1K9KBDMK2GQZ9	0374281777	121515764	Toward Rational Exuberance: The Evolution of the Modern Stock Market	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Must Read Material	Mark Smith has succeeded in writing one of the best histories of the stock market certainly in recent times and maybe of all time.  The book has rich descriptions of many of the individuals and companies that have shaped the market over the years.  But much more importantly, the book has a coherent, important message.  <br />Smith argues, quite persuasively, that the history of the stock market can be seen as a continual (if sometimes bumpy) upward movement in the valuation measures applied to the market.  Smith brings us back to the days when common stocks needed to YIELD more than bonds because they were riskier.  He then traces the advance of P/E ratios all the way to the present.  Although I am still unconvinced by his arguments that the markets of the late 20s and late 60s were not bubbles (he seems to almost make bubbles definitionaly impossible), this book is a valuable contribution to the current debates about the state of the market.<br />This is not a get-rich-quick book or a how-to manual, but the story Mark Smith lays out is vitally important to all investors and is an enjoyable read to boot.  Highly Recommended.	2001-11-16
US	46033303	R2E7K2PTB5DZ53	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An Excellent Overview	John Keegan's latest book provides a masterful treatment of the first world war in one relatively succinct volume.  Keegan deftly switches between the military and political dimensions of the conflict.  He also provides an excellent analysis of the tactics involved and most interestingly, the technological limitations which made those tactics almost inevitable.  What is remarkable is the belief of the high commanders almost until the end that a strategic breakout could still be achieved.<br />The book does suffer from a couple of flaws.  The one that would have been the easiest to prevent is the paucity of maps.  If length were a concern, I'd have gladly traded a few pages of text for more maps (it was frustrating to have flip back 100-200 pages to find a map that he had used four chapters before).  I also would have been interested to get more of Mr. Keegan's take on why the common troops stayed as loyal and stoic as they did.  He argues that the revolts tended to occur when total casualties exceeded the original strength of an army, but why only then... the futility of the effort must have been apparent long before then.<br />But overall, Mr. Keegan does a masterful job of presenting the great war (all around the globe) in all its aspects.	2001-11-16
US	46033303	R1ZBA20CEASJWO	0151005648	68905596	An Honorable Defeat: The Last Days of the Confederate Government	Books	3	14	15	N	N	An Honorable Effort	Mr. Davis has written an engaging account of the last days of the Confederate government.  For the many readers whose knowledge of the civil war ends with Lee's surrender at Appomattox, this volume will prove especially interesting.  Parts of the story (especially Breckinridge's travels thru Florida) would make a pretty good movie and give you a sense for what the country was like when Florida was almost the frontier.<br />My only real complaint about Mr. Davis' latest book is the length.  I often had the feeling reading it that Mr. Davis was intent on showing off just how much research he did for this project... so we get journal entry after journal entry of how dashing, distinguished, etc that Breckinridge was.  The reality is that you probably could have left at least 100 pages out of this book and not diminished the story in the process.  Despite that objection though, this book is still worth a read.	2001-09-28
US	46033303	R169U2KA60SCX7	0066620589	357838821	Stock Market Wizards: Interviews with America's Top Stock Traders	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Lots of Useful Advice	First a couple of caveats - I have not read Mr. Schwager's other Market Wizards books and I am a professional money manager.  That said, I found Mr. Schwager's latest book both entertaining and full of interesting and useful advice and information (I wound up with several pages of notes after reading it).  True there is no &quot;magic formula&quot; that is going to turn you into a great trader/investor... but what do you expect for [this amount of money].  The truth is you probably wouldn't get that even if you laid out 20 grand.  As several of the traders point out in their interviews, systems lose their effectiveness over time.<br />But any investor/trader would be well served to pay close attention to the rules that Stuart Walton keeps taped to his computer as well as a host of other useful gems tucked throughout the selections.  One of my personal favorites is that &quot;there is no such thing as a bad book.  Even one sentance has the power to change your life.&quot;  As a professional, I enjoyed the fact that the traders Mr. Schwager interviewed for this book were not household names.  As much as I may admire them, I don't need to read another account of Michael Price, Jimmy Rogers, James Cramer or the other CNBC/lecture circuit regulars.<br />The truth of the matter that being a CONSISTENTLY successful trader is very hard work.  While this book will not provide you all the answers, it will give you much to think about and much that can help you in both your investing and your life in general - and that is worth [it] (and then some).	2001-06-27
US	46033303	R13HRDS19X60CQ	0393050416	37256842	Quantum Evolution: The New Science of Life	Books	5	8	14	N	N	A Provocative Read	As a fan of the concept of Consilience (the blending of multiple academic disciplines), I loved Mr. McFadden's &quot;Quantum Evolution.&quot;  As a liberal arts graduate myself, I won't pretend to be able to evaluate all of Mr. McFadden's work; however I did find this book very accessible despite the technical nature of its subject matetr.  There was something very appealing about his combining of Biology with the microscale of Quantum Mechanics.  Too often when reading books about evolution and biology, it is easy to forget that it is actions at the molecular level that make everything work.  And just as biologists have come to reject classical ideas about the special properties of life, it seems hard to believe that the laws of quantum mechanics cease working just because you are talking about living organisms.  Are all of the ideas contained in Mr. McFadden's book correct?  Unlikely.  However, Mr. McFadden has succeeded in writing a provocative book that should merit considerable attention from both scholars and lay readers alike.	2001-06-11
US	46033303	R1N9HX6HRTIIC9	0312877811	102818080	The Spike: How Our Lives Are Being Transformed By Rapidly Advancing Technologies	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Fasten Your Seatbelts	In \\"The Spike,\\" Damien Broderick has written an interesting, thought provoking, if sometimes frustrating book.  The title of the book refers to what occurs on the right hand edge of any graph showing exponential growth.  His thesis is that within the next 50 years, one or more technologies (nanotech, artificial intelligence, etc) will hit the spike and the world, and humanity itself, will be transformed beyond recognition.<br />Because the book covers possible scenarios ranging from the probable to the almost absurd, it will be easy for many to dismiss the entire thing as a lot of nonsense.  But I think that would be a mistake.  There is much in this book that should be thought provoking, even if you reject some of the wilder ideas.  It is easy to forget sometimes that the pace of change is speeding up dramatically.  As recently as 10 years ago, the worldwide web (at least as we all know it today) did not exist - now try and imagine your life without it!<br />I do regret that Mr. Broderick seems to have largely bought into the typical left-wing rubbish about how much worse off the poor (or maybe all of us) are today than they were in the past.  Would that be the past of pre-civil rights sharecroppers in the South?  Or maybe the past of the wave of immigrants of the late 19th/early 20th century described by Upton Sinclair and his contemporaries?  And I have to confess that I am still struggling with the math that says a guaranteed stipend from the government of $25,000 for a family of four would \\"cost as much a small war.\\"  Last time I checked, 2.5 trillion dollars was a lot!  Thankfully in other places in the book, Mr. Broderick seems to understand these complaints - for example when he asks the reader to imagine being in medieval Paris or Pharonic Egypt (as a member of the working classes).<br />I also wish Mr. Broderick had devoted more pages to the possible backlash against technology we have witnessed in the past few years (e.g., the fight over genetically modified food).  But overall those are fairly modest quibbles to what is otherwise a truly thought-provoking book.  The human mind has trouble grappling with truly large numbers - be it the size of the universe or the exponential growth of computer processing capability.  This book will get you thinking about the possibilities and consequences of those numbers.	2001-06-04
US	46033303	R2O71IC5D20F73	0875848729	911514279	Beyond Greed and Fear: Finance and the Psychology of Investing	Books	3	68	71	N	N	Pushing Too Far?	In Beyond Fear and Greed, Mr. Shefrin has written a fairly interesting account of the advances in behavioral finance.  He draws heavily on previously published research (although often published in fairly esoteric sources), so people searching for lots of new insights will probably be disappointed.  That said, Mr. Shefrin covers most of the common biases that we are prone to including mental accounting, loss aversion, trend following and the like.  If a reader doesn't see him or herself in at least some of his illustrations, I suspect he is not being honest with himself.<br />My major problem is that in some instances I think Mr. Shefrin engages in his own form of hindsight bias.  For example, in his account of wall street strategists' market predictions I think he finds his bias after he knows the results.  If the market had a strong year previously and the strategist predicted another strong year and was proved wrong, then he was guilty of trend following.  If however, the same strategist predicted a weak market and proved to be wrong, then he was guilty of gambler's fallacy (mean reversion).  So basically either choice represents bias IF YOU ARE WRONG.  And yet, just because you are right does not change the mental processes that went into your decision.<br />However, despite the weaknesses of this book, overall it provides much food for thought for any serious investor and is probably worth at least a quick read.	2001-03-30
US	46033303	R3CCJ4RDADHCTH	0465047300	417871783	Death Of Character Moral Education In An Age Without Good Or Evil	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Interesting, but.....	JD Hunter has written an interesting and yet ultimately unsatisfying account of the state of moral education in the United States.  Where the book is successful is in tracing the history of moral education in the US - beginning with the first colonists and extending up through most of the major efforts of today.  He also does an interesting job in showing the dominance of psychological thinking - even among that school's supposedly staunchest critics.  While &quot;conservative&quot; critics attack the foundations of much of the mainstream moral education and its reliance on how one feels... underneath it, they have embraced many of those same ideas.<br />Where the book falls short however is putting it all in context.  I finished the book and was left saying &quot;and where does that leave us?&quot;  As the father of two young boys, I guess I was hoping for some more concrete ideas at the finish.  That said, this book is still worth reading by anyone who is interested in the moral education of our children and leaves you with much to think about.	2001-03-28
US	46033303	R258R679GBX9L	0061013439	995699181	The Run	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining, if shallow	If you are looking to kill a couple of hours the next time your flight is delayed, there are worse ways to do it than the latest novel from Stuart Woods.  But then again, there are a lot of better ways to do it as well.  First a warning, if you are a Republican, you are probably going to have a hard time finishing this (although I managed to make it through).  Basically most of the characters just take it for granted that the Republicans are evil.  But then again, maybe that isn't so far off the way Democratic operatives think (and vice versa).<br />The story is entertaining, if somewhat predicatable.  But not many of the characters have any real depth to them.  The blurb on the cover compares Woods to Ludlum and Clancy.  Although this is my first Stuart Woods novel, I have to say no way.  In fact, as political thrillers go, this one is not even as good as James Huston's.	2001-03-28
US	46033303	R1SA0O4HFF5VFM	052594544X	955094502	On Secret Service	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An Entertaining Read	Mr. Jakes has succeeded in writing a very engaging, yet different sort of novel about the Civil War.  If you are looking for a &quot;war narrative&quot; like Killer Angels, you need to look elsewhere.  This is one of the first (if not only) Civil War era stories I have read where major battles like Gettysburg and Shiloh appear almost as footnotes.  And yet many a familiar military leader (Mosby, Stuart, McClellan, etc) make appearances.<br />The cast assembled by Mr. Jakes is a very good blend of fictional and historical figures.  I will admit that I had never given a lot of thought to espionage during the Civil War and found this story very compelling.  You will come away uncomfortable with the methods employed by both sides to advance their respective causes.  <br />If I have a complaint with the story it is that at times the coincidences become a little too much.  Without giving anything away, Jakes' main characters have a knack brodering on the incredible to keep running into each other.  But if you can suspend at least that much disbelief, you will have found a story well worth reading.	2001-03-19
US	46033303	R1FOAM7CDAPDSI	1587990008	598596071	Latticework: The New Investing	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An Outstanding Book	In Latticework, Mr. Hagstrom has written a very powerful book arguing for the importance of a multidisciplinary approach to investing.  If you are looking for a &quot;magic bullet&quot; to make your stock picking infallible, you will need to look elsewhere.  Instead Mr. Hagstrom argues that all of the major branches of learning have something to offer.  As a professional investor, I couldn't agree more.  In particular Mr. Hagstrom draws on the work of the Santa Fe Institute in complex adaptive systems.  His argument that too often people view the market in Newtonian terms which are ultimately inappropriate rings very true.<br />This book does not pretend to offer a lot of answers, but rather is a starting part for future work.  The bibliography alone is worth the price of admission.  Ultimately, perhaps the highest praise I can give is that this book might not only make you a better investor, but also a better person.	2001-03-05
US	46033303	R3HN6RRS1MHDTB	0471252107	940896480	The Power of Gold: The History of an Obsession	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Powerful Study	Peter Bernstein has written a fascinating account of the role of gold throughout history. This book should help solidify him in the front rank of current economic writers.  Starting with the physical properties of the metal which help explain its attraction to cultures around the world, Bernstein traces the evolution of the precious metal from the time of Croesus through the abandoment of the Bretton Woods system.<br />The book is as much a sociological study as a financial treatise and readers looking for a strictly economic argument about the merits/demerits of a gold standard should probably look elesewhere.  Having worked for a money management firm who was the largest owner of gold equities in the world, I am familiar with the obsession of the true believers and they will not be satisfied with this account.  But true believers aside, perhaps the most powerful argument that Bernstein makes is a question - namely, why should the pace of human economic development be controlled by the vagaries of nature and changes in extraction technology.	2001-03-01
US	46033303	R1P3LME76EMFCE	0812933168	133498316	Surfing the Edge of Chaos: The Laws of Nature and the New Laws of Business	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A Must Read	Surfing the Edge of Chaos does a marvelous job of taking many of the ideas being developed in complexity theory and applying them to the business world.  In contrast say to Garrett Ralls who tried to do much the same thing, this book succeeds.  I found myself continually thinking about not only the examples they provide, but also on my own work experiences and other companies that I have analyzed.<br />The authors do an excellent job of contrasting their approach (adaptive leadership) with more traditional reorganization (operational leadership).  But refreshingly, they also acknowledge that in some cases, the more traditional approach might be more appropriate.  There are many interesting concepts being developed by complexity theorists and this book manages to capture many, if not most, of them.<br />They show repeatedly the need to increase the stress on an organization in order to break past patterns of behavior.  Their use of fitness landscapes (the idea that a successful company rests on a peak, and that in order to reach a new higher peak, often you must go down into the valley) is very powerful and at least partially explains why so many successful companies subsequently struggle, or fail, to adapt.  Importantly though, the authors also spend a great deal of time talking about the unintended (or second and third order) effects of change.  The point is not that you will be able to predict all of them (which is what chaos theory explicity says you cannot do), but rather that you must be flexible enough to roll with those unanticipated consequences.<br />Does that mean that every idea in this book is new?  Of course not, but to be successful, a new theory often must combine the old with the new.  And this book does a masterful of applying the ideas of Chaos/Complexity theory to business, of providing a new framework to think about both old and new problems.  You may not agree with everything that appears in this book, but you will certainly come away with muchfood for thought.	2001-03-01
US	46033303	R3DU78BVHL9SKL	0679450777	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A Thought Provoking Read	Edward Wilson's book provides a fascinating tour through the many branches of human learning.  While it is certainly possible to argue with his thesis that science will eventually link and provide greater understanding of the humanities and social sciences, the book is extremely well researched and deserves to be read more than once.  On the one hand, giving the increasing specialization in higher learning, it is very refreshing to see someone arguing for greater cross-disciplinary thinking.  However, as important as I think that goal is and despite the efforts of groups such as the Santa Fe Institute, it seems hard to believe that we are as close to establishing those linkages as Mr. Wilson seems to think.<br />My one major issue with the book is the last chapter &quot;To What End?&quot;.  Here Mr. Wilson goes on a far left environmentalist diatribe.  Given the limitations of our understanding which Mr. Wilson has been illustrating up to that point, his conclusions imply a level of knowledge that I found unconvincing.  Even setting aside that many of his contentions are highly debatable at best, I felt that this chapter seemed tacked on - it didn't flow from the chapters that preceded it.  <br />That aside, Consilience should prove a worthwhile investment of time for anyone who believes in a multidisciplinary approach to learning.	2001-02-22
US	46033303	RHX2B3UQ80S99	0312210833	952774713	The Noblest Triumph: Property and Prosperity Through the Ages	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Triumph Indeed	The Noblest Triumph is quite simply one of the most powerful, enjoyable nonfiction books I have read in quite some time.  Mr. Bethell's account is exhaustively researched (including tracking the evolution of ideas through multiple printings of some of the classic texts)and presents a forceful case for the primacy of private property and the evolution of property rights through the ages.  He demonstrates why many of the freedoms we cherish are either sharply curtailed if not eliminated outright if property rights are not adequately protected.  His analysis provides insight into many economic and sociological events which on their surface may appear irrational, but in fact represent the &quot;best&quot; course of action given the lack of property rights.<br />This book should be required reading for anyone who believes that the government (or more properly public ownership) is always or even often the best solution to today's problems.  In particular, environmentalists should read Mr. Bethell's thoughts very closely.  <br />Mr. Bethell has written a thought-provoking, well researched powerful book that makes what could have been a very boring topic come to life.	2001-02-19
US	46033303	R17J66JBEIXTNT	0393046885	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	6	10	N	N	An Elegant Book	For anyone who wants a better grasp of the laws and current theories about how the universe works, this book is for you.  Mr. Greene does a masterful job of bringing extremely complex, esoteric topics to the level of the lay reader without ever making you feel that you are being talked down to or patronized.<br />The book begins with the classical physics of Newton and moves through Einstein's relativity and quantum mechanics before delving into the latest cutting edge research on superstring theory being done by Mr. Greene and his colleagues.  Mr. Greene is masterful at using analogy and example to illustrate very complicated ideas.  I will confess that I still have some difficutly trying to imagine 9 or 10 dimensional shapes, but I will credit that as a fault of my own (or maybe the general wiring of the human brain) rather than that of the author.<br />Perhaps the highest praise I can give this book is that after reading it, I found myself wishing I could have taken a class with Brian Greene.	2001-02-19
US	46033303	R3ADOMMCZHPQSM	0884155048	936398894	The Nature of Chaos in Business: Using Complexity to Foster Successful Alliances and Acquisitions	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Very Disappointing	I awaited the arrival of this book with great anticipation, but was extremely disappointed by the actual product.  The authors are consultants and it shows.  The book is filled with a lot of nice buzz words which don't really say much of anything.  My impression is that while their actual presentations to clients are probably useful, they tried to make this book so generally applicable as to render it largely useless.<br />This is one of the first books that I have read in a long time that never inspired that &quot;aha&quot; moment... when you say... wow, I'd never thought of that before.  I slogged my way through the entire book hoping that I might find that moment.  Instead you get such amazing insights as listen to your employees and manage interpersonal relationships.  In addition, the authors spend a lot of time talking about Chaos and Complexity without really telling you much about how to use those concepts.  For those interested in complexity and chaos and the work of the Santa Fe Institute I would suggest you skip this book and instead go for James Gleick's &quot;Chaos&quot; or Mitchell Waldrop's &quot;Complexity&quot; - a much better investment of your time and effort.	2001-02-17
US	46033303	RFT3XKTOB83QA	0679408371	100924305	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A solid study of modern society	James Gleick has written a fascinating account of society's obsession with time and the ways it has changed our lives.  Some of the developments are well known - the constantly shifting images of MTV, the decline in readership of newspapers and the rise of multi-tasking.  But others, such as the networks shrinking of &quot;black&quot; time may be less familiar.<br />I have two minor quibbles with the book however.  First, the book seems weaker when Mr. Gleick moves away from organizational changes to individuals.  He seems to base his observations too heavily on the life style of well-educated urbanites.  I wonder how well his observations reflect life in Northeastern Vermont or rural Montana.  And even as one of those well-educated urbanites, some things I identified with (I most definitely multitask for example), and yet I do not channel surf despite having a digital satellite dish, I still read newspapers and books and have even been known to watch the Newshour on PBS where soundbites are much longer than 8 seconds.<br />The other quibble is that Mr. Gleick shies away from making any predictions.  What are the costs and benefits of all this &quot;speeding&quot; up?   Will there be a backlash?  Obviously no one knows the answers for sure, but without making the effort, the reader may be left asking, so what?<br />But despite those quibbles, this is still a book worth reading for anyone who cares about the lives we lead today.	2001-02-06
US	46033303	RGO44JFV27DSH	0471247375	671489811	Beyond Wall Street: The Art of Investing	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Good Introduction	While this book (based on the PBS series of the same name) is far from perfect, it does give a pretty good overview of some of the main themes of modern investing with profiles from some of the Street's biggest stars.  You can do far worse than listening to thoughts about growth investing from Foster Friess and value investing from John Neff.  And the final chapter on risk with Peter Bernstein was an exceptional overview of the basic concepts of behavioral finance and the mental mistakes often comitted by amatures and professionals alike.<br />However, people with a deeper grasp of Wall Street will be frustrated by the lack of depth on many topics.  Just to cite one example, the chapter on asset allocation ignores the current debate about the amount of benefit investors really get from international diversification.  Yes, in normal circumstances the correlation between markets may be low, but in times of crisis - when the benefits of diversification are most needed - correlations tend to rise dramtically.  When panic starts in one market, other markets often are either guilty by association (Brazil and Argentina got hit during the Peso crisis) or because money managers sell those assets which are easiest to sell.  Just ask the folks at Long Term Capital Management what happens when correlations suddenly increase.<br />But that lack of depth also makes this a pretty easy read and  there are enough useful bits to make this a book worth reading, especially for people new to the great game.	2001-02-01
US	46033303	R34PGIV831TITC	0062515519	474766599	Data Smog: Surviving the Information Glut Revised and Updated Edition	Books	2	7	10	N	N	What Might Have Been	I am disappointed that I end up rating David Shenk's book so low because there are some very interesting ideas at work here.  His rejection of technology as a panacea for all of humanity's problems is very accurate.  Also his distinction between mere information and real knowledge is something that all people should wrestle with.  And his analysis that public figures and interest groups rely increasingly on overheated rhetoric rings true to anyone who watched Jesse Jackson compare every current event to Selma or who reads the latest enviro-disaster headline.<br />But despite those positives there are several major flaws which mar this book.  First and most important is that Mr. Shenk, as many modern social critics of both the left and right often do, falls prey to nostalgia.  He seems to yearn for the golden age of American discourse, but when precisely was that?  He worries that consensus runs &quot;thinner and thinner every year.&quot;  Would he be refering to the previous political consensus that brought us the Civil War, William Jennings Bryan's Cross of Gold, the imposition and repeal of Prohibition, the McCarthy hearings or the long struggle for civil rights?  In fact, I would argue that our differences are much smaller than they used to be (even if we argue about them more loudly).  As an example, in the recently concluded election, Bush and Gore argued over whose prescription drug plan was better, not whether there should be one at all.<br />Mr. Shenk also decries the growing specialization of both publications and marketing.  But were we really better served when a larger percentage of the nation read Life magazine?  And is marketing that allows businesses to provide advertising that is more relevant to each person really bad?  I personally enjoy seeing the suggestions that this site provides of books I might be interested in.  But I am not powerless to resist that advertising as Mr. Shenk seems to fear.<br />The other major sin, at least in my opinion, isMr. Shenk's knee-jerk liberalism.  This became increasingly obvious whether in his disparaging treatment of President Reagan or Republicans in general or the idea that corporations are somehow, if not quite evil, at least morally corrupting.  And his depiction of journalists as paragons of objectivity and reason is laughable to anyone who watches the liberal bias of papers such as the New York Times or the conservative bias of the Washington Times.	2001-02-01
US	46033303	RKU4TYCSLC8Z9	0743204123	833686522	Maestro: Greenspan's Fed And The American Boom	Books	3	8	8	N	N	An Incomplete Account	Mr. Woodward's latest book is almost a mirror image of Justin Martin's biography of Alan Greenspan.  Where Martin's book deals more completely with Mr. Greenspan's life but gives short shrift to his time as Fed Chairman, Maestro does just the opposite - it deals almost exclusively with Mr. Greenspan's time at the Fed to the exclusion of everything else.  As someone involved with finance on a day to day basis, I am more partial to Woodward's focus, but that is probably a matter of individual taste and preference.  One solution is to read both of them because together they make a halfway decent biography.<br />The average reader with little or no knowledge of economics will find this book readily accessible, but that is part of the problem.  Mr. Woodward, as is his normal style, focuses more on the politics and personalities and less on the economic principles involved.  The end result is like fat free food - easier on the waist line but ultimately unsatisfying.<br />Overall, this book is a decent introduction to Alan Greenspan's time at the Fed, but we will have to wait for someone else to write the definitive biography of one of the most important financial figures of the decade.	2001-01-24
US	46033303	R1STD3Y61TAXHI	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Swords and Science	Okay, I'll confess that there is a part of me that may not be totally grown-up.  But I think that is true for many people and that part of me really enjoyed this fusion of quantum physics and swashbuckling action.  Is it the greatest novel ever written.. not even close.  Is it 100% believable... nope (you do have to wonder if the best use for a &quot;timemachine&quot; is to try and corner the vacation market.  But having said that, the science itself comes off as plausible (even many physicists claim they don't &quot;really&quot; understand quantum mechanics) and no mass market novel with a bibliography as extensive as the one contained here can be all bad.  So if you are looking for a nice way to spend a couple of winter evenings in front of the fire, you could do much worse than this latest effort from Michael Crichton.	2001-01-22
US	46033303	R1WDB0HDIUL3JJ	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Epic Literary Accomplishment	If there were a rating beyond 5 stars, this book would surely qualify.  Mr. Pressfield has done a truly remarkable job of recreating a world obscured by the mists of history.  The typical picture of ancient Greece presented in school today focuses almost exclusively on the Athenians and if Sparta is mentioned at all, it is usually as an antagonist to the &quot;good guys.&quot;  I found this account of the Spartan culture and lifestyle fascinating.<br />But beyond a work of historical fiction, this book is both an excellent military novel and an account of bravery and feats of arms so amazing that you might not believe it.... except that it really happened.<br />Even the narrative device used to tell the story (an interesting problem when you think about trying to tell a story where none of the protagonists survived) is masterfully created.  In all, simply one of the best novels of the past decade.	2001-01-19
US	46033303	RE2C40B141QPG	0738202754	673069551	Greenspan : The Man Behind Money	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Greenspan 101	Mr. Martin is primarily a magazine writer and it shows through in this book.  Although the style and brief length of the book makes it easily accessible to readers without much knowledge of the financial markets, those with more than a rudimentary grasp of finance and economics will probably find themselves, as I was, frequently yearning for more.  The details of Mr. Greenspan's early life are quite interesting and do shed some light on the character of the man responsible for keeping the nation's economy on an even keel.  Overall, this book is worth reading, but we will have to wait for the definitive account of Alan Greenspan to be written later.	2001-01-02
US	46033303	R2SXX146LEN8PY	0375403256	779305545	Thunder from the East: Portrait of a Rising Asia	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An Excellent Survey of Asia	Mr. Kristoff and Ms. WuDunn have written a very interesting and engaging book about one of the most important areas of the world.  The strength and weakness of the book derives from the authors' close contact with average people in the areas the write about.  This puts a wonderfully human face on an area that for too many Americans becomes a faceless mass of statistics.  But sometimes I think the authors are too quick to jump from anecdote to larger societal truth.<br />I found some of the early history of the region especially fascinating having never been exposed to that before.  Like the authors, I spent time afterward thinking about what might have been had China not destroyed its 15th century navy.  It is a useful counterpoint to the common argument that the triumph of the West over the past several centuries was inevitable.<br />The book also provides many good insights into Asia's potential for the future.  I was also impressed that the authors seemed very cognizant of the limits of their predictive powers and often pointed the wide variety of things that could happen to change their overall outlook.  I would recommend this book for all but the most serious scholars of Asia.	2001-01-02
US	46033303	R17FRYWLYLYORA	037550317X	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	5	3	5	N	N	When Genius Failed	Mr. Lowenstein has written a masterful account of the rise and fall of Long-Term Capital Management.  He succeeds in bringing his characters to life and even though we may know the outcome of the story, the book still has the narrative power of a greek tragedy.  You can almost see the words \\"Pride Goeth Before the Fall\\" written above the entryway at LTCM's Greenwich headquarters.  For those involved in the financial markets, the book also raises many interesting questions about the nature of risk and diversification and the limits of computer modeling as well as the legitimacy of much of the \\"New Finance.\\"	2000-12-29
