US	46063392	R3FK2Q8EYG0JRK	0743245911	734522183	Luckiest Man: The Life and Death of Lou Gehrig	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Adding Flesh to the Iron Man	Gehrig's place in baseball history is permanent, as a man he was admirable, but as a biographical subject he is difficult: there were no hair-raising stories of drinking and brawling and cheating and womanizing.   If he did not die young of a terrible disease which now bears his name, he would have been remembered as a physically-gifted man who played hard for 2,131 consecutive games and then went home to his parents and wife.  He had no vices except cigarettes. His main diversions were fishing and cards.  How does one make this man come to life?    Eig does so masterfully by placing Gehrig squarely in his times.  This biography is a general survey of baseball and society in the 1920s and 1930s with Gehrig at the center.   Eig describes the barnstorming baseball teams of the teens and 1920s, the advent of night baseball, contract negotiations, baseball strategy in the early \\"deadball\\" era, and the Rise and Fall of Babe Ruth.  He introduces innumerable character studies of those who formed the constellation of Gehrig's life - his parents Christiana and Henry, his managers Miller Huggins and Joe McCarthy, Yankee boss Jacob Ruppert, innumerable teammates, his ambitious wife Eleanor, and ultimately his doctors at the Mayo Clinic and New York.    It takes a while to warm up to the Iron Man - early on, his appears as a self-absorbed jock, albeit talented and hard-working.  His fairly blank profile during the early years makes for a slow beginning.  But over time, Eig's narrative reveals what a remarkable man Gehrig was.  He was plagued by shyness and insecurities, was personally ambitious but always a teammate; and  worked best within the top-down hierarchy of owners-managers-players.  In his Farewell Speech at Yankee Stadium in 1939, he thanked, among many people in his life, his mother-in-law \\"who takes sides with you in squabbles against her own daughter.\\"  How many mother-in-laws have been recognized in front of thousands at such bittersweet time?    Eig turns pitch perfect phrases - describing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) as \\"shutting down the body's functions, one-by-one, like a night-watchman switching off factory-floor lights.\\"  He brings tiny details back to the reader - the weather during key games, the flapping of a flag, the pull of a muscle.  This picture-painting is crucial in telling the story of a non-flashy athlete.     Has there been a public life as ironical as The Iron Man's?  He was a man-of-few-words who will forever live through his tear-jerking Farewell Speech; a wall-flower at parties who rose to fame during the flashy, publicity-crazed 1920s; and a superb physical specimen with arms the width  of most men's thighs who died at 36 of a muscle-wasting disease that would bear his name.  Eig tells his story with patience and humanity.  The Gehrig that emerges was given a very bad break, but made the most of his time on Earth in a way few men ever have.	2005-08-06
US	46063392	R28JW77DCEXZ5F	0060565276	446701844	The Boys of Pointe du Hoc: Ronald Reagan, D-Day, and the U.S. Army 2nd Ranger Battalion	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Tightly-written narrative of bravery and rhetoric	Douglas Brinkley packs a lot into this tightly edited book: the 18th century origins of the Army Ranger units, the fear and courage of the men who landed on the beaches of Normandy on June 4, 1944, Ronald Reagan's developing political philosophy, and the politics of White House speech-writing, most particularly the \\"Boys of Pointe du Hoc\\" speech on the 40th Anniversary of the D-Day Invasion.  On that June afternoon in 1984, Reagan (with words penned by speech-writer Peggy Noonan) translated the bravery of the soldiers into what eventually became a cottage industry of movies (e.g., Saving Private Ryan, etc) and books (e,g, The Greatest Generation, etc.).  Brinkley portrays Reagan as self-consciously Rooseveltian, and describes how past and present Americans (Ronald Reagan, Peggy Noonan, Michael Deaver, Dwight Eisenhower, FDR, the children of D-Day survivors and the survivors themselves) assembled to create a moment of unforgettable eloquence for a few minutes in France in 1984.  Brinkley's tale of bravery, image-making and rhetorical skill includes the essential ingredients of history and none of the fluff.	2005-07-29
US	46063392	R28GEW83TQA0GY	1400060842	809349937	Under and Alone: The True Story of the Undercover Agent Who Infiltrated America's Most Violent Outlaw Motorcycle Gang	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Death Defying Tale - Not for the Squeamish	William Queen was a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms agent who spent two years undercover as a member of the LA-centered Mongol Motorcycle Club. The Mongols were/are one of the most violent gangs in the country, motivated not by profit but by sheer mayhem, blood and beer. Queen becomes Billy St. James, grows his beard, and slowly makes his way up from Prospect to fully-patched member, then to Vice-President, of his chapter. Along the way, he gathers evidence about the many crimes planned and executed by the members of the Mongols (whose colorful names include Rancid, Panhead, and Red Dog). The book is a fast read, and Queen, thankfully, avoids any pop-psych analysis of the violent men with whom he rode. Nevertheless, he comments on some interesting aspects of human nature: he found his Mongol brothers far more sympathetic to the death of his mother than his fellow ATF agents, and he feels pangs of guilt as he records the conversations of men he knows would give their lives to protect him. The motorcycle life is a hard one, especially for women, who are considered property of the men and are frequently beaten. Queen describes one incident where he sowed up the broken, bleeding face of a beaten woman (he was a trained medic in Vietnam). The toll on Queen's family is high, and one gets the feeling that after writing this book, Queen himself will always be in danger. Even though the reader knows how the book will end - with Billy St. James turning back into ATF Agent Queen and testifying against his former brothers - Under and Alone remains suspenseful. Like the lion-tamer who defies death time and time again, Queen / St. James was able to keep his secret longer than he and the ATF ever thought possible, and risked death almost daily doing so. Highly recommended.	2005-07-23
US	46063392	R1W3A9X85HQJZ7	0425171698	272514083	The Victorian Internet: The Remarkable Story of the Telegraph and the Nineteenth Century's On-line Pioneers	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Short book on a fantastic breakthrough	Standage largely succeeds in supporting his claim that Victorians returning to 21st century Earth through a time-travel machine would not be overly impressed with our Internet, because \\"they had one of their own.\\"  His short book - easily read in one sitting or a cross-country airline trip - covers the birth of the optical telegraph (a French invention that used the waving wooden arms atop a tower) through its electrification, the invention of Morse code, and to its decline with the invention of the telephone.    He shows that the telegraph, like the Internet, spawned codes, hackers, criminal gangs, romance, and information overload.  And the telegraph was greeted with the same overheated claims as the Internet that faster and easier communication among peoples would usher in World Peace.    Unfortunately, Standage's book ends abruptly in the 1880s, when  the telephone began to replace the telegraph.  \\"Telegrams\\" still flourished in the 20th century, and Morse Code is still used today by amateur radio operators.  A few pages at the end of Standage's tale about the remaining echo from that wonderous 19th century device would have made a more complete book.    Even so, if you want to learn about how an amateur inventor - Samuel Morse - became inspired to invent this simple device, and how was resisted initially and then changed the world, then this is a good place to start.	2005-02-11
US	46063392	R2AL8URG9YSRLJ	0306810328	455706607	Lincoln: A Foreigner's Quest	Books	4	5	8	N	N	part history, part stream-of-consciousness, part-travelogue	Jan Morris starts off rolling her eyes at the Lincoln she received in school books in her native England.  She travels Kentucky and Illinois and scoffs at the obese men and women waddling about the aisles of rural Wal-Marts and 7-11s.  Is this the legacy of Lincoln's backwoods Kentucky?  She notes that Lincoln's parents was the 19th century embodiment of \\"white trash\\" and that had Lincoln been born in the 20th century, it would have been in a trailer (the log cabin equivalent of today). She calls them as she sees them: her Lincoln is a  backwoods man,  a know-it-all, who became a big business lawyer and used the slavery issue as his ticket to the White House.  She sees a gangly oddball of enormous drive who miraculously remains a \\"nice man\\" despite of his melancholia, burning ambition, dreadful wife, sneakiness, and distinction of presiding over more American deaths from war than any other President.  Morris writes well, at times lyrically, and when she conjures up Lincoln receiving a visitor in the White House, or trudging up the street for yet one more Matthew Brady photograph, you are there with her.  She  also imagines a meeting, at the end of the war, between the \\"marble model\\" Robert E. Lee, and the \\"gorilla\\" Lincoln, a meeting that never actually occurred but is fun to think about nonetheless.  She falls under the spell this long-dead man still casts and becomes an admirer, though offers the caveat that Lincoln started America on its path to constantly playing global cop - a thesis she offers as an aside but is certainly worth thinking about.  The American soldier occupying Baghdad is a linear descendent of the Union solider occupying Richmond in her view.  This is a short, thoughtful volume that adds another angle to the Lincoln story. You might disagree with her assertions that Lincoln was essentially an artist but this should not stop you from reading this quirky, essentially personal book.	2005-01-29
US	46063392	R157RELN99C70U	0375404546	184664307	Freedom Rising: Washington in the Civil War	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Street-wise, street-level history	This is a masterful book - a street-level, street wise view of the Civil War from Pennsylvania Avenue and its tributaries.   Furgurson writes of all the high and low lifes, generals, prostitutes, slave pens, piles of amputated limbs, mud, malaria, con men and spies that invaded Washington during the 1860s.  The City was part morgue, part hospital, completely political and closely allied to the Southern cause.      Furgurson writes this book like a forensic detective with the flair of a novelist.  Here is a sample:    \\"On a given evening in the early summer of 1861, toward midnight, no one stirred at William Seward's house on the east side of the square, where Lincoln often came to talk strategy and swap stories....The windows were dark at Gideon Welles's home, looking south from H Street toward the White House.  The entrance to St. John's Church, Benjamin Latrobe's little 1816 gem, where every President since Madison had worshiped, was shut against the night.  But across Sixteenth Street, so close to all this quiescent power and anxiety, a portly senator range the bell of a brick townhouse, and a hall lamp briefly lit his eager face as he was admitted to the presence of Rose O'Neal Greenow.\\"    That paragraph could have been a dry recitation of events.  But in Furgurson's hands, the tale is a 'little gem,' like St. John's Church, of a Senator unknowingly sleeping with, and spilling secrets to, a Southern spy. This is \\"you are there\\" journalism at its best.    If you live or work or visit Washington DC in search of the Civil War's legacies, you will take Furgurson's visions with you when you walk its streets.  All the people and many of the buildings are long gone, but Furgurson's book has stemmed history's tide for a long time to come.	2005-01-29
US	46063392	R30R38XJ8IJL6C	0684822911	260759335	Founding Father: Rediscovering George Washington	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Still Remote,	The chief success of Brookhiser's book is its recreation of 18th-century America, and its exemplar, in 200 crisp pages.  Brookhiser clearly admires his subject, and skillfully distills his essence in this slim volume. <br /> <br />The George Washington that emerges from this book is essentially a moral and theatrical man - one who understood the stagecraft of statecraft as much as Ronald Regan did 200 years later.  He paid fastidious attention to his wardrobe, his speech and even his facial expressions.  His volcanic temper was allowed free reign only enough to impress upon his audience its existence and then was quickly reeled in.    He paid a great deal of attention to his reputation, which Brookhiser shows was considered a crucial component of character for all 18th century men-of-action in America, and needed to be protected 'like precious cargo in the hold of a ship.'  His courage under fire was undeniable, even when those under his command ran away.  His will to serve seemed to outpace his ambition: he seemed to be just as happy in Mount Vernon as in the White House. He felt the hypocrisy of slave-owning perhaps more than most of his Virginia neighbors; he was the only one of the slave-owning President's who had his slaves freed after death. <br /> <br />One significant omission, however, is that comparatively little attention is paid to Martha Washington.  Why did George marry her?  What was Martha's chief contribution to George's success? What role, in other words, did marriage play in the formation and continuation of Washington's character?  These questions are important yet unaddressed. <br /> <br />In the end, Brookhiser adds flesh tones to Washington, whose cool visage - in Gilbert Stuart's portrait - peers at you on the cover of the book. Nevertheless, the Father of Our Country remains a remote father, which is apparently exactly what the man himself intended.	2005-01-07
US	46063392	R6JQ02EC9CNJ1	0375505008	593758140	Franklin and Winston: An Intimate Portrait of an Epic Friendship	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Were They Really Friends?	Photographs of Franklin Roosevelt and Winston Churchill together have the look of historical inevitability.  So central were these two leaders to the war effort that it is impossible to think about that hellish time without their bulky presences dominating the picture.  All in all, they spent over 100 days with each other.   Meachem, in his throughly researched book, details virtually every hour of their days together yet arrives at a fairly ambivalent answer to his central question: were they really friends?      Meachem's source material are primarily cables between the two leaders, and letters and reminisces from family, friends, and personal aides that surrounded them between 1939 and 1945.  When he can, the author skillfully includes several different contemporary accounts from multiple witnesses of the same events - mostly the summits and dinners - that dominated the two leaders' working and personal relationship.  The book has an extensive annotated bibliography and a half-a-dozen or so photographs.  Yet, the limited scope of the book means that events not central to the relationship, such as the bitter internal political discord within both the British and American governments, are lightly treated (see Michael Beschloss' The Conquerors and John Lukacs' The Duel for a full treatment).    Though Meachem avoids judgements, Winston Churchill clearly emerges as the most sympathetic figure in the relationship, forever unsure of his place in FDR's crowded world.  Churchill admits, in one passage, that he \\"loves that man\\" and is often seen weeping at emotional moments (even movies).  FDR, under his jaunty and smiling exterior, remains cool and calculating (\\"a man of shadows,\\" writes the author) , and at times unaccountably cruel to and dismissive of Churchill.  His successor, Harry Truman, called him \\"the coldest man I ever knew.\\"    Meachem superbly conveys the texture of social and political life during the war years and this is the main strength of his book.  Cables were the main form of communication, and travel to faraway places in Asia for summit meetings were arduous and dangerous in the pre-jet age.  Meachem's narration is constantly interrupted by FDR's and Churchill's illnesses, which inevitably followed these long and stressful journeys.  One can only imagine how difficult overseas meetings were for the paralyzed FDR.   Dinners and picnics at the White House, Shangri-la (now Camp David) and Hyde Park are faithfully retold, down to the menu and the toasts.  Despite what looks the like the inevitability of the Roosevelt / Churchill joint venture, Meachem shows that throughout the war and despite their common interests, neither fully trusted each other nor could each be sure the other would remain in power.   Churchill, especially, contended with the possibility that FDR would retire or be defeated for re-election in 1940 and 1944.      Were they fast friends, above and beyond politics?  Meachem clearly thinks so, but his book shows that the titanic events surrounding the two men so saturated their personal psyches that it is impossible to be certain.  FDR turned colder toward Churchill over time as he courted  \\"Uncle Joe\\" Stalin.  Churchill did not attend FDR's funeral, although his plane was warming up on the runway.  In the end, we are left with two highly talented politicians who each believed in imperious moments that \\"L'etet c'est moi.\\"    \\"In love, there is always the one who kisses, and one who offers the cheek\\" - to borrow another phrase from the French.  Meachem's excellent book shows that FDR could deftly offer the cheek, and not, depending on circumstances.  And Churchill, a enormously proud and sensitive man, did what he had to do to ensure his beloved Britain's - and the \\"English-speaking race's\\" - survival.	2004-12-30
US	46063392	R2JSSTDQ3M8JGE	0679640576	218999601	The American Revolution: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Good, Factual Overview of the Birth of the Republic	This slim volume (just shy of 200 pages with a short chronology, a few maps and a bibliography) contains the essentials of the Revolutionary Age in America - the intellectual underpinnings of `republicanism', the increasing passion for independence after successive tax acts, the war itself, and the making of the Constitution.  As his account unfolds, Wood finds time to briefly cover early American art, slavery, manners, diplomatic maneuvers, and other social, economic and political aspects of this momentous period in Western history.    He sticks to the facts in this account, and avoids what he calls in the preface, \\"celebrating or condemning\\" the Revolution itself.  This book is best read if you want a quick precis of the Revolution, and if you are interested in further reading, you can consult his fine bibliography for other sources.  One line sticks in my mind from this book:  in describing the increasing passion for egalitarianism in the new Republic, Wood offers an outstanding one-line summary: \\"For many Americans,\\" he writes, \\"living in a free country meant never having to tip one's cap to anyone.\\"	2004-12-17
US	46063392	R38IU9PPNEM7M2	0385494785	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Gripping, Compulsively Readable True Story	I polished off this exhilarating and thrilling book in about three days and was sorry to finish it.  Krakauer is a gifted writer who can make mountaintop scenes vivid even for readers with little mountain climbing experience.    Its pace is nonstop, and Krakauer puts you right there with him, vomiting with high-altitude sickness, half-blind with snow blindness, shivering in 40-degree-below-zero blizzards, listening to screams for help over radio, and picking the ice off the faces of fellow climbers who are now corpses.      Along the way, he describes the history of attempts made on Everest, the psychology of summit fever, the Sherpa culture, and inherent tensions in the guide / client relationship.  It is this last aspect that is probably most responsible for the summit disaster of 1996.  Clients had spent far too much money, and guides too much personal prestige, to turn away within 200 feet of the summit, when that was exactly what they should have done on Krakauer's ill-fated expedition in 1996.    Krakauer is an honest writer who spares neither himself or his fellow climbers culpability for the bad decisions that lead a dozen people to their deaths. While he portrays some climbers sympathetically, he does not ask for sympathy -  he makes it clear that these men and women knew the risks and rolled the dice willingly.  Sympathy, therefore, goes to the dead climbers' long-suffering spouses and children and not the climbers themselves.    You will never think of Everest the same way after your read this book.  Its climbers and their fate will linger in your mind's eye long after you finish this grim, well-told tale.	2004-12-04
US	46063392	R1QVHOVTDP6ACR	0865475814	104815263	The Outlaw Sea: A World of Freedom, Chaos, and Crime	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Extraordinary Scenes on the High Seas and Beaches	The Outlaw Sea is a short book with a wide-scope, including the history of international regulatory efforts, the problem of piracy, the practical effects of international regulations, terrorism, the sinking and investigation of the Estonia ferry accident in 1994, and the global `ship-breaking' industry and its malcontents.  William Langewiesche is a talented writer and his description of what it was like to be on the sinking Estonia is breath-taking.  Here is an excerpt:    \\"Survival that night was a very tight race, and savagely simple. People who started out early and moved fast had some chance of winning. People who started late or hesitated for any reason had no chance at all. Action paid. Contemplation did not. The mere act of getting dressed was enough to condemn people to death, and although many who escaped to the water succumbed to the cold, most of the winners endured the ordeal simply naked or in their underwear. In any event, the survivors all seem to have grasped the nature of this race, the first stage of which involved getting to the Deck 7 promenade without delay. There was no God to turn to for mercy. There was no government to provide order. Civilization was ancient history. Europe was a faint and faraway place. Inside the ship, as the heel (angle) increased, even the most primitive social organization, the human chain, crumbled apart. Love only slowed people down. A pitiless clock was running. The ocean was completely in control.\\"    `Love only slowed people down...'  This is one powerful sentence.  One reads about ferry accidents from time-to-time in the paper, and then moves quickly to the sports section. The name of the ship and country fades quickly from memory. But after reading Langewiesche's chapter on the Estonia, you will have a new appreciation of how hellish these accidents are for passenger and crew.    The book bogs down in places - in particular, in the detailed forensic analysis on the investigation of the Estonia disaster and someother places. Langewiesche heroically describes the detective work but it would have been useful to include a few photographs - or even some drawings - to help people without a nautical background understand various parts of the ship. The chapters are self-contained, and overall the book has the feel of several unrelated long articles put together for a book.  There should have been an afterword to bring the disparate topics all together.    At the end of the book, Langewiesche offers up another excellent chapter on the beaches in Southeast Asia (India in particular) where ships go  to die, and be scrapped.  The danger, slave-wages, and ecological catastrophes are brought to life in a very visual, compelling way.  This chapter, and the minute-by-minute account of the Estonia disaster, spotlight the author's talent at bringing extraordinary scenes to your mind's eye.	2004-11-25
US	46063392	R3VJSDRXCGBPUB	1893183130	680007911	At the Threshold: Ufos, Science and the New Age	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ufology as Sociology	I found this book library and almost didn't take it out because the publisher (Wild Flower Press) sounded too airy-fairy, New Age-y for me.  How wrong I was.  This is an excellent treatment of the sociology of ufology.  It is a well-researched, heavily-footnoted survey of the ufology: its luminaries, it's debunkers, and it's internal controversies.  This is required reading for anyone who is interested in this field.  Don't read this book seeking an answer to the question \\"are UFOs real?\\"  Rather, read it to understand th field of ufology, and how similar, and dissimilar, it is to other areas of research.   The large bibliography alone is worth the price of the book.  Congratulations to Gettysburg College for supporting Dr. Emmons in this work.  After finishing the book, I bought my own copy - the ultimate compliment.	2004-09-13
US	46063392	R1U1HD8V79AODE	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Turns Conventional Wisdom Sideways	Malcolm Gladwell animates an idea that has been  entombed in various arcane academic journals, with real-life examples, character studies, and a simple, engaging writing style.  He weaves together Paul Revere's ride, teenage smoking, anti-graffiti campaigns, Sesame Street, and the success of best-sellers to create a world where conventional wisdom is turned upside down, and the reason for so many sudden shifts lie in unexpected places.  A lot of our world is determined by context and the fortuitous presence of salesman, mavens and connectors - people that accelerated social change.  More books should be like this - short, concise, lively, and well-footnoted!  My only quibble with this book - and this is not so much of a quibble as an invitation to Mr. Gladwell to write a sequel - is how can we use these findings to make our would a better, safer place?  The dominant theme of these first years of the 21st century is the looming threat of international, fundamentalist terrorism.  What is the tipping point that could eliminate or decrease this threat, in the same way that the elimination of graffiti and fare-beaters in the New York City subway precipitated a significant overall decrease in  violent crime throughout New York City in the 1990s?	2003-08-28
US	46063392	R82VIZO4Y6X7P	031242082X	280975572	Balsamic Dreams: A Short But Self-Important History of the Baby Boomer Generation	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Boomers De-boomed.	You know those irritatingly pompous, naval-gazing twirps that made up the TV show \\"thirty-something?\\" Well, welcome to Joe Queenan's world.  I am not sure if these people actually exist they way Quennan describes them, but no matter: he picks apart, slams, bleaches and boils them with the eagerness of a bullfighter. Not much of these vacuous gasbags are left after Queenan is finished. This is a funny book - there are places where I laughed out loud, sometimes twice per page, which is rare for me, a taciturn-type. This is also a short book, but, sadly, a little long for this topic. Despite Queenan's energy and humor, I felt parts of it, particularly the last third, was overdrawn and not necessary, and there were times when he gets so worked up that he seems to advocate violence against particular boomer-types. But most of all, this is a history, and in fact, Queenan has done his homework, comparing all of America's generational periods and ranking them in terms of quality. This would be a good book in a sociology or American history class. You laugh, and, if you were born between 1940 and 1960, you'll cry.	2003-07-31
US	46063392	R3BW1UORDA73K5	0252020863	31972361	The Inner World of Abraham Lincoln	Books	4	31	36	N	N	A anecdote-rich study of a tortured man	Burlingame's book is misnamed in my view - it is not `The Inner World' as much as how Lincoln reacted to the outer world.  The reader is left to judge ultimately for himself what Lincoln thought.  This is a testament to Burlingame's restraint as a historian.  He could have pounded away at all sorts of psychological concepts and explanations, but he does'nt  Instead, except for some references to Carl Jung in the beginning of the book and a sprikling of psychological explanations throughout the chapters, he presents in a matter-of-fact way Lincoln's relationships with his wife, his sons, his generals, and discusses his temper, ambition, and parenting, with some, but not excessive, `patient on the couch' pontificating.      The longest, and by far the most powerful, chapter is on Lincoln's marriage.  If only half, or even a quarter of what Burlingame recounts was true, then the potato-throwing, screaming, spendthrift Mary Lincoln must have been the worst wife on earth. In Springfield, Lincoln would often rush out the backdoor during Mary's `episodes' - whisking his sons up with him and spending the night in his office, on a couch specially installed that was long enough to handle his tall frame.  He was often beaten - a broom being Mary's weapon of choice.  My God, the poor man needed his own Emancipation Proclamation!    The chapter on Lincoln's depression details how low this man could get.  It was probably his Gloomy Gus outlook that saved Lincoln from completely cracking up; only a person familiar with depression and how to go on under difficult circumstances could withstand the strain of a war that killed 628,000 fellow citizens in four years.  I am not a Lincoln scholar so I can't testify to the veracity of all that is in this book.  But, reading it will provide you with a sense of how many trials this strange, ambitious, and great man endured - at home and in politics.	2003-06-15
US	46063392	R2JM2ZPR4RPLQF	0743212991	226114904	Lincoln's Greatest Speech: The Second Inaugural	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A small book that yeilds great insights	This is a short book about a short speech; but both are saturated by meaning and insight.  Ronald White's analysis of Abraham Lincoln's Second Inaugural Address (which Lincoln gave weeks before the end of the Civil War), portrays Lincoln as a thinker and artist, wrapped in a politician.  White deconstructs each word and phrase in the speech/sermon, firmly setting them within the historical context that includes  Lincoln's speaking style, Frederick Douglass, Bible-smuggling, Aristotle's rhetoric, the reading public, theological debates within Christendom, the little table in front of Lincoln while he spoke, long-forgotten sermons delivered in the Washington church where Lincoln and his family worshiped, the overtaxed printing presses which rushed out copies of Uncle Tom's Cabin, skeptical foreign newspapers, and so many other aspects of this lost and sad world.  American deaths in the Civil War almost equaled American deaths in all subsequent wars, and yet, in this speech, Lincoln avoided blame for the war and gloating over the North's impending victory, and instead invoked a merciful God that punished the whole of the country for \\"America's (not the South's) slavery.\\"  White captures a Lincoln who was a man of his times but was somehow able to rise above them.  He has written a masterful book here, blessedly short.  We need more short books like this.  History, like speeches, can be a lot more palatable in small bites than in the large tomes that crowd contemporary bookshelves.	2003-06-07
US	46063392	R3D49Z6CTJOLAN	0465068626	634913745	Our Final Hour	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A good handbook to our asymmetrical age	If the 19th Century was The Industrial Age, and the 20th Century the Information Age, then Sir Martin Rees's 21st Century may well be The Asymmetrical Age, though he does not use this term.  Asymmetrical because vast changes - primarily catastrophic, violent and deadly disasters - can be affected by very small numbers of people, perhaps even individuals.  This is true, according to Rees, Britain's Astronomer Royal, by well-meaning scientists as well as homicidal terrorists.  Rees shows how basic scientific knowledge and experiments could, in theory, cause the end of the world.  For example, the huge practical accelerators constructed to give physicists a view of the smallest particles in the Universe (if only briefly) could theoretically beget a chain of unprecedented atomic events that rips apart the known physical world, collapsing the Earth into a bowling ball-sized sphere - obviously to the detriment of its inhabitants!  Rees also plows the now familiar, and unsettling territory of the power of lone terrorists, who could unleash deadly man-made germs, whose genesis is emerging from biotech research originally meant to be life-enhancing  (Rees himself has bet money that 1,000,000 people will die in the next 20 years from a man-made plague).  In the next decades, Rees argues, more and more individuals will have increasing amounts of power.  And odds are, something really bad will happen.  If a scientific experiment has a one in one million chance of causing a catastrophe, we might be able to live with the risk, particularly if the experiment could yield results that saves lives.  But, in this asymmetrical age, Rees argues, millions my be able to perform similar risky experiments. We are increasing our risk exponentially, every day.  This is a short book, and so Rees gives little space to how to solve this dilemma.  But even a long, learned tome would prove inadequate. Baldly put - there is nothing we can do about it.  The Asymmetrical Age is the price of \\"progress.\\"	2003-06-07
US	46063392	R19LR83ALF3T01	0618060278	695032446	Rational Mysticism: Dispatches from the Border Between Science and Spirituality	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Strange Brew	John Horgan is a good science journalist, once firmly established at Scientific American, who wrote this book as a kind of personal journey to see how the Best and the Brightest in science and the 'new age' movement account for the Ultimate Reality. Is the Universe good or bad or indifferent? And, the scientists and gurus he interviews - Huston Smith, Susan Blackmore, Terrence McKenna, Michael Persinger - naturally offer different, sometimes contradictory - answers. This is a good survey of various opinions on the matter, and Horgan skillfully interweaves interesting and entertaining character profiles along with an explanation of their thinking. <br />But, ultimately, there is no Answer, as there probably could not be. As humans, it is best to ask good questions and enjoy the debate they spark rather than insist on a dogmatic answer. Horgan's ecumenical book achieves that - a curious man seeking Enlightenment by interviewing people who have dedicated their careers in getting the answers, and doing this \\"rationally.\\" The highpoint of this book is his interview with Susan Blackmore - she seems like the kind of earthy, real person you'd like to take out for a drink and a wide-ranging conversation.<br />Horgan enjoyed some psychedelics and speaks of these few experiences honestly. Many monsters, dragons, figures, etc. appear to Horgan as perhaps markers, or perhaps inhabitants, of a 'higher reality.' One line from Horgan's description of these trips sticks in my mind - his constant vomiting that \\"flopped in my bucket like a jellyfish.\\" No thanks - anything that makes me vomit can't be good for me. ...	2003-05-15
US	46063392	R1ZN8M6SHX6HOX	0300089163	912325621	The Duel: The Eighty-Day Struggle Between Churchill and Hitler	Books	4	8	9	N	N	This is split-screen history	Imagine you are watching TV - on the left side is Winston Churchill, assuming leadership and consolidating power, urging on the doomed French, at times teary but always resolute, battling the forces of appeasement in his own party and cabinet as much as he is dueling with Hitler.  On the right side of your screen is Adolph Hitler, coldly calculating his European chessboard, conferring with his generals, working diligently on speeches, and waiting for what believed was inevitable - a backlash against Churchill in England and a move back toward appeasement.  And occasionally, in a small box in the upper left hand corner, you see Roosevelt, wary of Churchill at first, running for an unprecedented third term, promising no American involvement in 'foreign wars,' but ultimately using all his cunning political skills to push for Lend-Lease.  This will give you a sense of Lukac's great book on the months immediately following Winston Churchill ascension to the Prime Minister-ship of England.<br />Often, Lukacs achieves this split-screen narrative down to the very hour - for example, on the night of June 24, 1940, as Churchill writes a letter to Stalin asking him to reconsider his 'friendship pact' with Hitler, Hitler assembles his closest circle to engage in his 'table talk.' \\"The war in the West is over.  France has been defeated, and with England I shall reach an understanding shortly...There remains our settling accounts with the East (ie, Russia).\\"  Similarly, on the very night (July 31) that Hitler told his generals that there would be an invasion of Russia, Roosevelt made his decision to go ahead with Lend-Lease to aid Britain.<br />Minor characters move about these images - the depressed Joseph Kennedy, disgraced but still viable Neville Chamberlain, and the canny Lord Halifax.<br />Much of The Duel focuses on Churchill's leadership in the 80 days between May 10 and July 31, 1940 (a year he said he wanted to relive 'again and again').  Many in his party were 'reasonable men' - men who recognized that Hitler was unbeatable in Europe, and that the best course of action was to reach an accommodation with him.  Lukacs shows a Churchill who understood the impending doom, but at the same time had an almost otherworldly, \\"unreasonable' loathing of any compromise with Hitler.  This ability to unblinkingly stare into the abyss, as France fell and the British retreated at Dunkirk, but keep going strong is what saved Britain not only from Hitler, but ultimately from its own 'pragmatism.'  Pragmatism is usually a good trait - but in this instance, it would have been suicidal for England.<br />Clear writing, adroit character studies of the protagonists, and, above all, a perfectly executed split screen structure make this book read like a novel.  I consumed it in two days.  Highly recommended.	2003-05-11
US	46063392	RZJ7HHQ0IIQSR	0140260781	78452877	The Arrogance of Power: The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Nixon's warts	I approached this book gingerly. After all, how many biographies of Richard Nixon are enough? And yet, I found myself taking this off the library shelf for reading on the train. As I suspected, it's a hatchet job. In Summer's book, Nixon is utterly without redeeming qualities; he's a heavy drinker, a pill-popper, a possible wife abuser, and so on. He is his own best friend and his own worst enemy. There are funny moments here, some too scatological or obscene for me to include in this little review. Summers uses the usual cautious adverbs (witnesses \\"reportedly said...\\" \\"allegedly saw...\\" etc), and includes an impressive appendix that lists his sources. It appears he is not making this stuff up. But it is not, by any means, balanced; the only way, probably, to get a handle of this bizarre, tortured man is to read all the biographies and memoirs, if you have the endurance. If all of Summer's book this is true, or even if HALF of it is true, then the Constitution is indeed a marvelous document: it survived the onslaught of one of the strangest men in American history. If he was, as Tom Wicker claims, \\"One of Us,\\" then we are a sad lot indeed.	2003-03-30
US	46063392	R3QH8WICQP8289	0761502300	350824718	American Hit Radio: A History of Popular Singles From 1955 to the Present	Books	4	2	3	N	N	funny, acerbic, biased,	You will quibble with his choices - lots of my 'favorite' songs and bands of old are not included - but this book really isn't about 'favorites' as much as representative samples. Ryan writes about 5 paragraphs per song, typically four of which set the historical context, and then the fifth describes the song itself. Each essay could stand on it own - they are funny, acerbic, and thoughtful at the same time. He obviously knows and loves his subject. He has his biases - most notably, that the hits of the 1960s were more meaningful and better musicallly than those of the 1970s. But he also is a sharp judge, and deflates the musical and lyrical excesses of the 1960s throughout his discussion of that decade. AM Radio used broadcast more than right-wing gabfests - it played music, and good music! Pick-up this book and browse through the decades, and learn the story behind each one of those old tunes you listened to after school.	2003-03-30
US	46063392	R39IWRBL2X7TIF	0684810271	634463914	The Conquerors: Roosevelt, Truman and the Destruction of Hitler's Germany, 1941-1945	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Insider's View - quick, easily readable	About halfway through this book, one wonders how FDR and Truman came to be \\"the conquerors,\\" given the tremendous uncertainty and infighting at the very tops of their administrations. Beschloss writes much of this story through the eyes of Henry Morgenthau, Jr., FDR's friend and Secretary of the Treasury throughout his four administrations. In fact, page after page is full of conversational, direct quotes that Beschloss was able to glean from newly-opened archives and Morgenthau's extensive notes. FDR's management-style was idiosyncratic, to say the least - letting his aides consume much of their energy butting heads so that he could squeeze the best ideas out of them. While this may have worked when he was healthy, by his fourth term he was dying, his mind was failing, and this free-wheeling management style created a series of public embarrassments and severe headaches for his subordinates. Upon FDR's death, Truman inherited this Rube Goldberg machine and, in Beschloss's narrative, quickly, snappily whips it into shape, so effectively that even the grieving Morgenthau was relieved to have a man at the top who could establish order among his men (which included firing the Treasury Secretary within months!). In addition to Morgenthau's fight to alert FDR of the 'holocaust,'despite the high-level of anti-Semitism in America at that time, Truman's stepping up to the plate (when he was never briefed by FDR on the war, didn't know there was an a-bomb in the works, and never knew the White House had a Map Room) is also heroic in this account. This is a good, popular history with blow-by-blow, readable accounts of the Quebec, Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam conferences.	2003-03-16
US	46063392	R3RIWOBLURSB0X	0375703969	612678003	Honor's Voice: The Transformation of Abraham Lincoln	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A Good Guide to Conflicting Evidence	Teachers in criminal justice classes, I am told, often stage mock crimes in their classrooms. In the middle of a lecture, for example, a bandit will barge in, threaten the students, and make off with the professor's wallet. The students, at first shocked but then relieved when told that it was a staged event, are then asked to describe the event. What did the suspect look like? How tall was he? What color hair did he have? What was he wearing? What did he say? Invariably, there are multiple answers to those questions. People saw different things. No one version of what occurred is totally accurate.<br />Wilson's book confronts that perennial problem of human perception. Though his 'transformation of Lincoln' plows familiar ground - how one solitary, unschooled backwoods man transformed himself into a national, albeit polarizing figure, through willpower, endurance, ambition, guts, and brains - his careful forensic method, as judge and jury of a multitude of competing facts and interpretations, makes this book a compelling tale, as much about how history is written as it is about how Lincoln evolved. <br />And this is why I disagree with the reviews that describe this book as long-winded, tough-sledding and over-detailed. In Honor's Voice, Wilson provides a valuable glimpse into the historian's bag of tricks. Wilson takes each of the iconic moments of Lincoln's life - his storied wresting match with Jack Armstrong, his self-education, his disastrous romance with Ann Rutledge - and peels apart the layers, examining the historical record as closely as possible, evaluating the claims of eyewitnesses and second-hand sources, and holding each up to scrutiny before making any assertions; and even then, he is admirably cautious. Wilson presents a lot of quotes, exactly as written, from contemporaries who witnessed, or claimed to have witnessed, crucial events in Lincoln's life, and asks: Is this the truth? Who could have benefit from enhancing the truth? Who was really there? What about the quote lends it authenticity, or falsity? Yes, the narrative covers the same event numerous times, but this is the price one pays of exactness. Like the criminal justice students who have competing recollections of a recent event, not one of Lincoln's contemporaries knows the whole truth. But taken together, one gets a more clear picture of what might have happened. <br />The risk, of course, is boredom and the frustration of dealing with multiple sources of the same event; but the reward is a new appreciation of Lincoln the man, as well as the historian's challenge of teasing out the facts in an era long since vanished.	2003-03-10
US	46063392	R26BMRZOYEJWDZ	0061091847	625478691	Mafia Dynasty: The Rise and Fall of the Gambino Crime Family	Books	4	5	5	N	N	At once, sobering and comical	Read this book for a corrective to the seductive powers of Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather trilogy and HBO's The Sopranos, which promote the \\"The Family\\" in more or less sympathetic tones. Davis' narrative combines historical research (locating the roots of Cosa Nostra in 19th century feudal Italy), psychological profiling (well-drawn portraits of the genius Carlo Gambino, luxury-loving but ultimately out-of-touch Paul Castellano, and blowhard John Gotti), and legal journalism (blow-by-blow accounts of the three Gotti trials of the 1980s and 1990s). There are comical moments, most notably Castellano's tawdry affair with his maid (caught on FBI tapes) and Gotti's obscenity-laden self-incriminating boasting that he always knows what is going on (while being taped), and mob lawyer Bruce Cutler's courtroom tirades. But most of all, there is throughout the undeniable rot of organized crime, where murder is treated not as a sin, but as a business expense. Despite some grammatical errors and occasionally too much information (the book could have been better edited in my view), this book will balance out American culture's strange ambivalence regrading organized crime.	2003-02-28
US	46063392	R37GF49MV77W3S	0345419340	701143332	Abduction: Human Encounters with Aliens	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Path-breaking; raises fundemental questions	You do not need to be convinced by Mack in order to admire his courage: as a Harvard Professor, to take a topic straight from the tabloids and treat it seriously deserves a four-star rating by itself.  I am generally open to new ways of perceiving reality, and am willing to ponder the idea that \\"aliens\\" (or fellow -earth dwellers, differently dimensioned) are playing tricks with us.  My main difficulty lies with using hypnosis as a tool to uncover hidden memories, which lies at the heart of Mack's approach.  Hypnosis is just too easy to abuse.  It may be the only tool we can think of, currently, to use in this quest, but it just has too many drawbacks to be taken as the sole tool for alien-style research.  I think Mack, too, would agree with that. <br />The 1990s, when this book came out, were a heady time for alien research. Many books on the subject were published, and TVs shows produced.  Maybe it was the upcoming millennium, or just an increase in alien visits in the late 80s, but the field was hot.  Now, it has cooled off a bit.  One wonders when the next alien wave, or `flap,' will hit.  But hit it will, and when it does, many will go back to Mack's book for insight.  This is recommended, along with Jaques Valle's books.	2003-01-23
US	46063392	R2XSY9JGXNQIAM	0231083815	732025576	The Washington Community 1800-1828	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Memory from 20 Years Ago	I read this book in college, and it is one of the few books I remember from those years.  What sticks in my mind most is the analysis of how early Washington DC's rooming houses became the site of nascent party-building.  Congressman and Senators who came to Washington in those early years stayed in boarding houses, and Young's historical analysis showed how like-minded Congressman and Senators eat at the same table and slept in the same buildings.  &quot;Human beings design buildings, and the buildings they design also design us.&quot;	2003-01-07
US	46063392	RPE5DXT0QR040	0060195371	435406392	The Secret Architecture of Our Nation's Capital : The Masons and the Building of Washington, D.C.	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Original, Informative, Long,	Washington DC was a thoroughly planned city - it did not evolve haphazardly.  Those who have looked at a map of DC spot immediately the symmetry that structures the City.  This book is a well-researched argument that behind the city structure lies a Masonically-inspired tribute to Virgo.  I enjoyed parts of the book, but found that it presumed familiarity and/or sympathy with astrology and could have used a more thorough editing process (I found the book jumped around a lot and I had trouble following some of the themes.  I would recommend this book to those who live and work in Washington DC who always suspected there was something suspicious behind the symmetry, but who also have the ability not to get bogged down too much in astrological arcana.	2003-01-02
US	46063392	R3NO7IHYBFRHHB	0679642609	830723002	Meditations: A New Translation (Modern Library)	Books	4	1345	1362	N	N	steel for your spine	One should have more than one translation for Meditations.  Note this difference between Maxwell Staniforth's translation in 1964 (Penguin Classics) and Hay's 2002 translation in these two passages.<br />1964:  When force of circumstance upsets your equanimity, lose no time in recovering your self-control, and do not remain out-of-tune longer than you can help. Habitual recurrence to the harmony will increase your mastery of it.<br />2002: When jarred, unavoidably, by circumstances, revert at once to yourself, and don't lose the rhythm more than you can help. You'll have a better grasp of the harmony if you keep going back to it.<br />-----------------<br />1964: Adapt yourself to the environment in which your life has been cast, and show true love to the fellow-mortals with whom destiny has surrounded you.<br />2002: The things ordained for you - teach yourself to be at one with those. And the people who share them with you - treat them with love. With real love.<br />------------------<br />The 1964 version is regal, while the 2002 (Hays') version is Aurelius writing, quickly, in a spiral notebook while on horseback, the equivalent of \\"memo to myself.\\"<br />Reading this book is like taking a cold shower, or visiting a favorite bartender, who insists on serving you coffee, not drink. Hays has brought us a Marcus Aurelius who puts his hand on your shoulder, looks you in the eye, and tells you like it is: Get over yourself. You can't change the world. Do your best and realize you are of this earth. Human experience is muddy, so what? This book is best read in tough times, when you could use a little steel in your spine.	2002-12-22
US	46063392	R1JHE06M5707PO	1571741836	819358259	The PK Man: A True Story of Mind Over Matter	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Could it really be true?	If the incidents described in this startling book are true - even if one of these incidents is true - then our world is far stranger than it appears. Mishlove strives to come up with alterative explanations but, clearly, he believe what he experienced was a man who could control the weather, space shuttle, sporting events, and power grids. Lucky for us that Ted Owens was more-or-less harmless. What if Osama Bin Laden or other much more villainous character possessed such powers? I recommend this book because Mishlove is an thoughtful, insightful author who is clearly not a crackpot - in fact, he was reluctant to write this book. In the hands of a lesser writer, the story of Ted Owens would be laughable, the stuff of tabloids. In the hands of Mishlove, however, the story is scary and compelling.<BR>	2002-11-25
US	46063392	R31NAYGQS7BK4S	0316989797	166207962	An Open Heart: Practicing Compassion in Everyday Life	Books	4	1	6	N	N	In your heart, you know he is right	Timeless wisdom but hard to implement....Combine this with Confucius and Marcus Aurelius, and you have a pretty good philosophy to live by.	2002-11-20
US	46063392	R2RU4U813CMX9V	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good overview, well-written, and occasionally humorous	Grim topic well-treated, with occasional flashes of dark humor.  The book works not only as an in-depth look at fundamentalist terror, but also as a travelogue.  This is where the humor comes in.  I found myself laughing, out loud, at Bergan's dry wit when he describes virtuous inanities of travel in some pretty horrible places.   It is rare for me to laugh while reading, and in this case, it's a healthy break, because the book depicts some pretty nasty situations and characters.	2002-11-19
US	46063392	RHALLBY3HW6EW	0140194851	237835143	Daimonic Reality: Understanding Otherworld Encounters: A Field Guide to the Otherworld (Arkana)	Books	4	61	63	N	N	Encyclopedic, learned treatment of a strange subject	Harpur gives us a taxonomy of spirits - some will be recognizable to those familiar with this strange field, others might be new.  For example, Harpur describes a series of strange,, phantom social workers who visited homes a few years ago in England.  One thing about these social workers, and the men-in-black described by John Keel in The Mothman Prophecies, is how they seem to dress and act in ways that are exaggerated stereotypes.  The female social workers with their hair in tight little buns, and the MIB's in their improbably starched white shirts.  It is as if these characters were dressing for a part, and overdid it just a bit.  The serious ghost hunters reference Harpur's book for its thoughtfulness, and often put it up there will Charles Fort and Jacques Valle in its impact.  Recommended.......but destined to sit aside lesser works under the New Age banner at your local bookstore. That has always been the problem with this frustrating field - preaching to the chior.	2002-11-19
US	46063392	R3GUSRZ8NSZNOE	0874779642	251799285	The Cosmic Serpent: DNA and the Origins of Knowledge	Books	4	172	177	N	N	Good questions, but inconclusive	Jeremy Narby's argument is that when shaman's drink hallucinogenic brews, their consciousness sinks to the molecular level, and literally communicates with DNA, the basic building block of life.  DNA appears to shamans, and others who drink these magic brews, as serpents.  This is why, Narby claims, serpents loom large in ancient cultures around the world.  It is also how shamans get their expert knowledge of plants.  When shamans say that the spirit in the plants tell them how to concoct life-saving remedies, they mean what they say.  In hallucinogenic trances, the plants speak.  Narby goes onto to speculate that the world is one vast communication network among strands of DNA.  You don't have to buy the DNA-communication theory to enjoy this book.  It is written in an engaging, personal, first person narrative style.  It shows how science works, how &quot;eureka moments&quot; occur when one is relaxed and thinking about other things.  Maybe his theory is totally off-base, but even so, big ideas like this one often spur research in different, interesting directions.  We are only as good as our questions, and Narby's question is a great one: What if the shamans are right?	2002-07-16
US	46063392	R23WFVQ732IXZK	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Accurate, Funny, Acerbic	Fussell pokes fun, with deadly aim, at America's real class system.  What you say, wear, eat, and drink are dead giveaways.  Recommend with caution:  You will no doubt find yourself here, although you may not like what Fussell says about your &quot;station&quot; in life.	2002-04-23
US	46063392	R2ISY30EL7MBYT	0679747567	902761732	Why Things Bite Back: Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Consequences (Vintage)	Books	4	32	33	N	N	A good read for our times	Boy, we humans make a mess of things, don't we? Our solutions to problems end up causing other problems. We can never get ahead of the curve. So, what's the point? Why do we bother inventing things? If we stopped right now, and lived like its 2002 forever, we will be in better shape, and live quieter, more stress-free, and even safer, lives. That is NOT what Tenner advocates in his book. But it is a conclusion one could reach when you read the litany of unintended consequences he provides.<br />Drawing on a rich variety of sources, Tenner shows quite clearly how and why we have unintended consequences. Once you read this book, you will find yourself thinking about many of the technological fixes in your life and wondering what unintended consequences they begat. <br />The next step - and maybe this can be Tenner's next book - is ask, what can we do about this situation? We cannot and should not stop innovation or problem-solving. But maybe we can do two things. One, explore how feedback loops can be enhanced, especially now that we are living in a digital world. It sounds silly when you read that someday, your refrigerator will order milk from a grocery store when it \\"senses\\" you are low on milk, but the faster and more efficient the feedback loops, the better we can be at forecasting danger ahead. Secondly, when a new solution or invention comes to fruition, look back for a moment, not ahead. Something is always lost when a new tool comes into human hands. Maybe the old tool had positive attributes we should try to keep. For a great example of this, read the little essay on railroads in George Kennan's Around the Cragged Hill. As he describes it, at the very point in history that the railroads had created a magnificent system, uniting the country while allowing it to spread, maximizing speed and safety, the car was invented. And the railroads withered. A sad story, the way he tells it. And while Kennan may be a little too romantic when it comes to 19th century rails, I am sure that there are many things about the rails that we have lost, now that we drive or fly. <br />I always appreciate a book that makes me think. This one does and is recommended.	2001-12-28
US	46063392	RG3GCZJCIDVTV	0091082609	786770517	The Case of the Midwife Toad	Books	4	11	12	N	N	synchronicity	The other reviewers commented on the main subject of this book - the question of inheritance. However, the Appendix has a fascinating account of Kammerer's work on serial coincidence, of &quot;like and like&quot; happening together. Kammerer spent long walks observing people and things, and determined that similar events happen together. For example, in one of his files he notes, two soldiers, both 19 years old, both born in Silesia, both volunteers in the transport corps, both admitted to the same hospital in 1915, both victims of pneumonia, and both named Franz Richter. He found lots of these coincidences, and claimed that this is the way the world is structured. In fact, these are not coincidences, but evidence of &quot;The Law of the Series.&quot; Sounds weird, but he took this seriously. The Appendix in The Case of the Mid Wife Toad gives an account of this bizarre research project of Paul Kammerer.	2001-12-26
US	46063392	R317YVOBRNICWG	0802713521	894540459	E = mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great book for the non-scientist	I have read many books on this subject and NONE of them conveyed the essence of the equation the way this book does. I am not a scientist, and did poorly in chemistry in school, so I really needed a book such as this one.  Bodanis' metaphors make this famous concept - that mass and energy are the different aspects of the same thing - really easy to understand.  For example, he describes the uranium atom like an overstuffed water balloon, ready to be punctured by a slow moving neutron.  Now I can finally picture how the atomic bomb worked.  Bodanis also shows how this timeless equation developed against a backdrop of human frailty - insecurity, double-dealing, backstabbing, jealousy, and even romance.  His description of an Allied nighttime raid against a Nazi-operated heavy water factory in Norway reads like a spy novel.  There were at least two surprises in this book for me: 1)  the crucial role of women in the development of proof of Einstein's equation, and 2) the academic establishment's resistence towards the equation and other aspects of the new physics.  Many of the pioneers either skipped school or did poorly in it - probably because they were too imaginative to put up with orthodoxy.  But they kept their individual, iconoclastic spirits alive, and helped found a new physics and cosmology.  At the end of the book, author Bodanis writes &quot;I loved writing this book.&quot;  And one can tell that he did.  I loved reading it as well.	2001-12-23
US	46063392	R3DTV6VB5GP28N	0801492254	532850389	The Reenchantment of the World	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Interesting from a Historical Perspective	This is the first &quot;New Age&quot; book I read - in 1990 or so - so alot of the concepts were new to me then. I would recommend this book if you are interested in the history of ideas, since Berman paints a pretty stark picture of the world as a machine versus the world as an organism, or something alive. I particularly enjoyed reading about Newton's role as an alchemist. There are some streches here, but even if you don't &quot;buy into&quot; those stretches it still makes compelling reading. The book is well illustrated. The cover of the first edition paperback, by the way, is much more interesting than the new cover.	2001-12-21
US	46063392	R53OI8EWD4NJU	0874777305	562307193	The Future of the Body: Explorations Into the Further Evolution Of Human Nature	Books	4	20	28	N	N	Encyclopedic, Compelling, but Not Entirely Convincing,	This is an ambitious book, and must have been a labor of love for Mr. Murphy. It is a thorough treatment of every conceivable mystical or healing arts practice, with plenty of anecdotal evidence, some of it well supported, some not. I say the book is not convincing because so much of this stuff is so bizarre that I need to &quot;see it to believe it.&quot; For example, exhumed bodies of highly religious poeple, such as saints, that show no decomposition after years of being buried. How could that be possible? Without photographs you just have to take the witnesses' words as gospel...or not.<br />If you want a thorough survey of these themes, though, this is definitely your book.	2001-12-21
US	46063392	REJ426PJ0IKO9	0195139224	932597910	The Sun, The Genome, and The Internet: Tools of Scientific Revolution (New York Public Library Lectures in Humanities)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Accessible, Thought-Provoking	The title is misleading - the essay that addresses &quot;the Sun, the Genome and the Interent&quot; is only a small part of this short book. I found it the most interesting, though, which is probably why it is thus titled. Dyson paints a future world in which villages are repopulated through solar power processed by bio-engineered trees (which will provide the fuel), and the Interent (which will provide the connection to the larger world). A very simple, elegant idea. He addresses other issues here, too - the role of ethics in science, how to get into space cheaply, and the coming changes due to biotech. The biotech portion was very compelling, with speculation that we will soon be re-enigneering the human race. I have read such predictions before but Dyson does a good, thoughtful job here, and examines the implications.<br />All in all, a good, economical book of lectures which you will finish quickly.	2001-12-21
US	46063392	R35QBYZHMEIO8T	0801492254	532850389	The Reenchantment of the World	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Interesting from a Historical Perspective	This is the first &quot;New Age&quot; book I read - in 1990 or so - so alot of the concepts were new to me then. I would recommend this book if you are interested in the history of ideas, since Berman paints a pretty stark picture of the world as a machine versus the world as a organisms, or something alive.  I particularly  enjoyed reading about Newton's role as an alchemist.  There are some streches here, but even if you don't &quot;buy into&quot; those stretches it still makes compelling reading.  The book is well illustrated.  The cover of the first edition paperback, by the way, is much more interesting than the new cover.	2001-12-21
US	46063392	R1D2WQ90EKO50	189162086X	930080819	The Control Revolution: How the Internet is Putting Individuals in Charge and Changing the World We Know	Books	4	3	3	N	N	For those with second thoughts	It is nice, finally, to read an intelligent book about the Internet - one that is neither overly celebratory nor overly gloomy. Most books written about the 'Net are overly positive, painting the kind of unrealistic picture of the future that one associates with the Worlds Fair of 1939, which, among other things, portrayed the City of the Future as blessedly free of traffic jams. Whoops! That sure didn't happen!<br />Shapiro uses the term &quot;over-steer&quot; to describe how the 'Net and all its benefits might bring unintended consequences. For example, the 'Net eliminates the middleman, but maybe the middleman offers value that will be sorely missed. The 'Net allows us to personalize information, but maybe an over-personalized world will cut us off from the marvels and pleasures of serendipity - in other words, if we only read the news we want, we might miss something vitally important (I think this is unlikely.  Anyone with one molecule of curiousity in their brains will experience mountains of interesting information on the Interent 'by accident.')<br />Hats off to Shapiro for thinking this technology through. This book is recommended for people who always have second thoughts.	2001-12-19
US	46063392	R1RW8SE2WE77JQ	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fun and informative	Talbot's book reads like a pot-boiler.  I think I read it two sittings (the only other book that I read so fast was The Amityville Horror in 1978!).  Talbot weaves his theory that the universe is a hologram around findings in neuroscience and particle physics.  He then brings in every paranormal phenomenon one can think of to fit into this theory - reincarnation, out of body experiences, ESP, UFOs, psychokinesis, etc. etc.  This is both the strength and the weakness of the book.  While having a theory that describes all of these phenomena is like finding the Rosetta Stone, I found myself thirsting for alternative explanations as well, just to get a comparison.  But still, Talbot's book is a page-turner and is recommended.	2001-12-17
US	46063392	R1RHUZWXFUODJ9	0809245868	221556165	Dimensions: A Casebook of Alien Contact	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Level-headed and open-minded	Vallee is a rarity in the world - an open-minded scientist who takes UFOs seriously and can write about them with wit and style. In all of his books, one senses a serious man who has no time for either the true believers who think that UFOs are all extraterrestrial craft nor the mindless skpetics who think the thousands of eyewitness accounts are likely the result of indigestion, like Scrooge's sightings of a ghost. His theory, that these are interdimensional beings who are toying with us is original and provocative. <br />And he has a number of great lines which I have highlighted in my copy of the book. Such as: &quot;There is a strange urge in my mind. I would like to stop behaving as a rat pressing levers-even if I have to go hungry for a while. I would like to step outside the conditioning maze and see what makes it tick. I wonder what I would find. Perhaps a terrible superhuman monstrosity the very contemplation of which would make a man insane? Perhaps a solemn gathering of wise men? Or the maddening simplicity of unattended clockwork?&quot; <br />Of all his books, I would recommend this as well as Passport to Magonia, although there is some overlap between them. Vallee has been studying UFOs since the 1960s and there is no better authority today.	2001-12-17
US	46063392	RZBZQ7UB4GYUO	0679729453	933385853	The Path to Power (The Years of Lyndon Johnson, Volume 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Page-Turner, though pretty negative	This is an incredible book - Caro lived in the Texas Hill Country for 5 years, interviewed Johnson's classmates and students (most of whom were still alive when this book was written in the 1980s), and paints an unforgettable picture of Texas politics, society, and above all, Lyndon Johnson.  Caro paints a picture of domestic life in 1930s Texas that still lingers in my mind - a chapter called The Sad Irons.   Warning:  Johnson comes across in these pages as a monster; Caro is very negative.  I am not sure if the succeeding volumes of Caro's Johnson bio are like this.  In some cases, I thought it was overdone.  Young Lyndon could not have been THAT bad!  But if you have an interest in Texas, Johnson, or state politics in general, reach for this book.  It will be hard to put down.	2001-12-17
US	46063392	R1DXO1UJEMY3TN	015657246X	836891444	Margins Of Reality: The Role of Consciousness in the Physical World	Books	4	15	15	N	N	a future classic?	Both scientist and layman will find a lot of valuable information in this book, which describes modern research, particularly at the Princeton Engineering Anomalies Research laboratories, into how mind can influence the material world.  It is at this point the premier academic text on this very controversial subject.  There are some technical aspects to the book that, for a non-scientist like me, were admittedly tough going (...).  However, the book is leavened by very readable prose and incredible illustrations, many from ancient Egypt, Europe and occult sources.  To read a book from an engineering department that contains such illustrations is astounding, and shows how far we have come in taking this stuff seriously!	2001-12-17
US	46063392	R1JIEVV3ISQCRF	0809245868	221556165	Dimensions: A Casebook of Alien Contact	Books	4	42	42	N	N	Level-headed and open-minded	Vallee is a rarity in the world - an open-minded scientist who takes UFOs seriously and can write about them with wit and style.  In all of his books, one senses a serious man who has no time for either the true believers that UFOs are all extraterrestrial craft nor the mindless skpetics who think the thousands of eyewitness accounts are likely the result of indigestion, like Scrooge's sightings of a ghost.  His theory, that these may be interdimensional beings who are toying with us, or teaching us, or both, is original and provocative.  And he has a number of great lines which I have highlighted in my copy of the book.  My favorite:   &quot;There is a strange urge in my mind. I would like to stop behaving as a rat pressing levers-even if I have to go hungry for a while. I would like to step outside the conditioning maze and see what makes it tick. I wonder what I would find. Perhaps a terrible superhuman monstrosity the very contemplation of which would make a man insane? Perhaps a solemn gathering of wise men? Or the maddening simplicity of unattended clockwork?&quot; This is typical of his thinking and writing.  Of all his books, I would recommend this as well as Passport to Magonia, although there is some overlap between them.  Vallee has been studying UFOs since the 1960s and there is no better authority today.	2001-12-17
US	46063392	R369SJ2981Z9VM	0823077969	645091967	World Radio TV Handbook 2001	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Always Useful Book for your Listen Post	I have been buying this book off and on since the 1970s.  Particularly useful are maps with transmitter locations (though as some have noted above, appearently there are some errors here).  I also appreciated the product reviews.  I don't DX much anymore but would recommend this text to those who love to pick out weak broadcasts through the static and needs a way to indentify their origins.	2001-12-17
US	46063392	RPP7UH5Y9IXGQ	1579510027	256382293	The Illuminati Papers	Books	3	12	33	N	N	RAW is paranoid...	...but entertaining nonetheless and if you are into numerology, synchronicities, physics, and conspiracies, I recommend this book heartily. Near the back of the book is a great graphic that shows the history of physics, as well as one that shows the evolution of secret societies - these are interesting. One thing about the book I find troubling though is the extent to which one might be courting negative energies by investigating them so much. Sometimes, it's best not to play with a Ouija board - you never know what you might dig up. RAW is a unique writer and adds I think a significant degree of signal into an otherwise noisy environment of New Age baloney. But it is hard to tell sometimes when he is pulling your leg....	2001-12-17
US	46063392	R26KS6N6LJWAW4	0823077969	645091967	World Radio TV Handbook 2001	Books	4	0	0	N	N	2001 Edition	I have been buying this book off and on since the 1970s. Particularly useful are maps with transmitter locations (though as some have noted above, appearently there are some errors here). I also appreciated the product reviews. I don't DX much anymore but would recommend this text to those who love to pick out weak broadcasts through the static and needs a way to indentify their origins.	2001-12-17
US	46063392	R1CWMKHESPUH62	0395957915	775911586	The Seven Mysteries of Life: An Exploration of Science and Philosophy	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Murchie must have been a genius	It took Guy Murchie 17 years to write this book, which is more than a book; it is really a vast canvas, upon which Murchie mixes poetry, science, speculation, and a beautiful use of metaphor to paint a picture of life which is wonderous and always mysterious. What struck me most about this book is how well Murchie writes and supports his arguments (more like theories, this is not a polemic). In the hands of a lesser writer, the book could easily come off as pompous New Age baloney, because Murchie himself posits some pretty wild theories - such as rocks being conscious. He also sprinkes the book with old-fashioned, gracious touches (such as referring to the reader as &quot;gentle reader&quot;).  This is one of the few books I have given as a gift, and it is one you can pick up and start reading on any page and find useful information. And the illustrations alone - at least in the earlier edition of the book - are worth the price of the book. Go get it!	2001-12-15
US	46063392	R1HMHOI2M2BWLL	0813908728	561901631	Twenty Cases Suggestive of Reincarnation: Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged	Books	4	37	102	N	N	Compelling, Well_researched	There is compelling evidence of life after death, either in spirit in some other realm, or reincarnated here on Earth. (I tried to interview but he refused; I wasn't establishment enough!). Stevenson has always been careful to say his work is only &quot;suggestive of reincarnation&quot; but he clearly leans that way. His evidence is compelling that something strange is happening - especially when children remember past lives, call out for relatives (in there past life) by name, have unexplained bruises and recognize their old past-life neighborhoods. Yes, strange and wonderful indeed. But not, by any means, determinative of reincarnation.  My feeling is that this can be explained by something simpler, and not as exciting: each life leaves an imprint - emotions and thoughts are like waves in a pond. Some extraordinarily sensitive people can pick up on those emotions and thoughts, like a sensitive radio receiving a signal from far away due to atmospheric skip. Children are open-minded - not dead-to-the-world like most boring adults. When they pick up on these messages, they speak them as their own, and even feel the memory is theirs. But, the &quot;memory&quot; is really a leftover, it is not real. The deceased person is as dead as a doornail, and has not come back to life. He/she can never know his thoughts and emotions were left behind and picked up by a sensitive child in India (a lot of this happens in India). Yes, it's a bummer. You don't live. But your thoughts do. Then again, this theory has a strong ethical component: leave behind good thoughts - you never know who will pick up on them when you are gone!	2001-06-21
US	46063392	R3EZ3CQAVWM36P	1883319420	600890643	Paradigm Wars: Worldviews for a New Age	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great Until the End	Well researched, with just the right amount of open-mindedness and skpeticism.  However, at the end of the book, I was taken aback by what appeared to be a full-scale defense of the thesis that UFOs are really flying saucers with little green men inside. I kept re-reading this section of the book to see if this was a joke.  It appears not to be.  Anyone who has seen a crop circle will stand in awe of its majesty and mystery, but to go from that to belief in little green guys is too much of a leap from me.  But, then again, maybe I am a dummy, and I didn't fully understand this part.<br />All in all, though, a very worthwhile read.	2001-06-20
US	46063392	RNN7X5GQ8YLPL	067170723X	901125044	Metaman: The Merging of Humans and Machines into a Global Superorganism	Books	4	1	3	N	N	good antidote to post-Sept 11	Well-researched, densely packed, but highly readable and completely free of academic jargon and New Age leaps of faith. I came away from the book a believer - optimistic for the very-long run, maybe not for us in the 21st century, but for those who will come later on.  This is a good antidote to post-Sept 11, 2001 pessimism, but only if you take a long-view.	2001-06-08
