US	46072197	RU4HVV7QCLIMS	0195051807	525111510	The Harvest of Sorrow: Soviet Collectivization and the Terror-Famine	Books	5	4	10	N	N	Incentives matter	This book shows just how bad things can get when the realities of economics are ignored.  When people have no incentive to produce, they will not produce.  This is a message that I wish were better understood by those who persist in thinking that we can solve poverty by giving out handouts.	2005-10-14
US	46072197	RVHJ8ODK6KOTS	0451206452	18420700	Try and Make Me!: Simple Strategies That Turn Off The Tantrums and Create Cooperation	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	If your kid is driving you crazy, get some realistic advice here	This book is the best I've seen on handling crazy-making kids.  My son certainly qualifies as one of those.  I've found the Hold Down technique to be really helpful.	2005-10-14
US	46072197	R2DLN5W8FLJZMD	0515123463	686490963	Nerve	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Dick Francis' Best	This book starts with a bang and never lets up.  Dick Francis' novels are admittedly formulaic, but it's a winning formula for sure.  The ending is a bit unrealistic, but so what?  In life there's a time for being serious and a time for losing yourself in an exciting story with an interesting main character.	2005-10-14
US	46072197	R1627ZKTKMMQRU	0465090907	632135242	The Two-Income Trap: Why Middle-Class Parents are Going Broke	Books	5	12	24	N	N	Wondering why your finances are so tight?  This book has some answers.	This book details research on bankruptcies and the American family.  Before I read it, I knew that a lot of people were having financial trouble in today's America, but I had no idea it had gotten so out of hand.  The authors make it clear that it's tougher for a family to make it today than it was a few decades ago.  This is not due to an increase in selfishness or irresponsibility; families really do have less discretionary income today.  This is in spite of the fact that far more women are working today.  The book is worth reading just for this information.<br /><br />This certainly struck a chord with me.  My husband and I both work at good jobs, similar to the job my father had when I was a child.  Yet living the lifestyle my father and mother had when I was young is completely out of our reach.  My parents owned a detached house; we own a small condo.  They could afford several children and a wife who was a full-time homemaker; we have one child and find even that a financial struggle.  It is nice to know that we aren't the only ones.<br /><br />When it comes to the author's policy prescriptions to solve this problem, some of their ideas are very good.  The authors make an excellent case for reregulating the interest rates credit card companies are allowed to charge. Allowing banks to charge very high rates only encourages them to make loans they know people can't afford to pay back.  The authors make a good point that the sale of actual goods has to a large extent now become a sort of financial sideline to where the real money is made, which is charging interest on the purchase.  (Maybe in their next book they can apply the same principle to student loans--education has now become a sideline to the student loan business.)<br /><br />I was disturbed that the authors missed one of the main reasons why housing is so much more expensive now.  The population of the U.S. has doubled since the 1940s.  There isn't enough room, or for that matter enough gasoline, for a house and a yard and the roads to reach them for all of those people.  Want to get housing prices back to a more reasonable level?  First, cut immigration and stabilize the U.S. population.  Second, change zoning laws to encourage higher density housing near jobs and public transportion.a yard and the roads to reach them for all of those people.  Want to get housing prices back to a more reasonable level?  First, cut immigration and stabilize the U.S. population.  Second, change zoning laws to encourage higher density housing near jobs and public transportion.	2005-09-27
US	46072197	RT49HLRSN8FMA	0679772898	518461017	Thinking In Pictures: and Other Reports from My Life with Autism	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting insights into another world	Fascinating material on how autistics think.  I'm a mother of an 8-year-old boy with Asperger's syndrome, that I often find hard to fathom.  I was encouraged by her ideas on the role of autism in human creativity.<br /><br />The chapter on medication convinced me that the state of the art on drug therapy for autism is nowhere near advanced enough for me to consider using it on my son.  Grandin seems to take an alarmingly free attitude on mixing and matching medications and trying out new combinations to suit herself.  These drugs have risks, which she seems unaware of.<br /><br />Grandin's views on religion struck me as silly.  I would advise readers to check out \\"Ghost in the Universe\\" by Taner Edis to see the other side of the argument, before being too quick to find God from science as Grandin does.	2005-09-19
US	46072197	R20JDGZU2IE0PX	0471678694	36964621	False Alarm: The Truth About the Epidemic of Fear	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Need help calming down?  This book is for you.	A refreshing commentary on what fear of the improbable has cost our society.  I loved the advice on taking aspirin instead of every overhyped new drug that comes along.  Our health is vastly better than that of our ancestors, yet if anything we're more worried about our health than they were.<br /><br />Siegel missed talking about what I think is one of the most oversold fears in modern America: sexual predators attacking children.  This is not to say that children don't get molested; they sometimes do.  But teaching them that they are in danger whenever they go anywhere alone is pointless and harmful.  My own husband is terrified of letting our eight-year-old play outside or walk to school unsupervised because \\"something might happen.\\"  Hundreds of kids at his school are driven there, even though they live within a mile of the school, because parents are so fearful.  Unfortunately, children are selected as victims precisely because they are vulnerable.  Vulnerability is part of their nature.  The actual science on the subject that I've seen tends to show that the most effective measures tend NOT to involve scaring children, or indeed talking about molestation at all, but rather to build the social skills of children.  I would hope that we could take a similar approach to handling other similarly overhyped fears.	2005-09-19
US	46072197	RN8XXSLZDQS39	0806525371	719308883	The Conservative Bookshelf: Essential Works That Impact Today's Conservative Thinkers	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Guaranteed to give you something to think about!	I found this book a fascinating introduction to paleoconservatism.  I consider myself quite conservative in some respects, and quite liberal in others.  I have always had trouble understanding where neoconservatives like George Bush were coming from, since their actions so often seemed to throw the best conservative principles out the window. After reading this book, I find that my views match much more with the paleoconservatives.  I certainly don't agree with all of the ideas presented, but I found several books that I definitely plan to read.  What more can you ask of a survey book like this?<br /><br />I was surprised to see environmentalism classed by Williamson as a naughty liberal idea.  As Williamson says, conservatism is about preferring the familiar to the unknown, the tried to the untried.  Williamson has missed the essential conservatism of environmentalism. Since we don't have a spare planet to live on, we should be quite cautious about accepting innovations that will destroy the natural resources our lives depend on.  This is true even where those innovations date back some decades, such as the auto-centered culture of modern America.  It is true that some environmental proposals are naive, but environmentalists aren't alone in making naive proposals. (The neoconservative idea that America should accept an unlimited number of immigrants strikes me as more naive and stupid than anything the environmentalists have come up with.)  Having a stable, sustainable economy with a stable population size is a thoroughly conservative idea--and that's really what environmentalism is about.	2005-09-18
US	46072197	RV4LUP5UHBQX1	0807823929	208516669	Lee's Miserables: Life in the Army of Northern Virginia from the Wilderness to Appomattox	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Fascinating book on a still-relevant subject	If you like Civil War history, you'll love this. Lee's Miserables is an account of the last year of the Civil War from the point of view of the Confederates--specifically, the Army of Northern Virginia.  What is stunning is the optimism.  While Lee's soldiers clearly recognized that their army and the Confederacy were in a tough spot, most seem to have believed that they would still succeed. Many Confederate soldiers believed very sincerely that God was on their side and that a miracle would save their beloved country.  Only in the last few months did their confidence really begin to waver, and some kept it up until Lee's actual surrender.  Until then, Lee's soldiers fooled themselves that the North was even worse off than they were. This was true, of course, if you looked only at the number of casualties on both sides; but the fact was that by the winter of the Petersburg campaign the Army of Northern Virginia and the Confederacy were seriously overmatched.  The North still had a vastly greater population, industrial capacity, you name it, and was not inclined to give up now after all the sacrifices they had made earlier in the war.  In reading the Confederates' optimistic letters, I was reminded again and again of today's cheery bulletins about how we are going to achieve success in the Iraq war.  Self-delusion played a big part in keeping the Civil War going as long as it did.  Self-delusion today by George Bush and other military and political leaders is keeping us in a pointless and unwinnable war.  This book is a great reminder that it is always wise to keep in mind that there are some things that cannot be done.	2005-08-21
US	46072197	RJHGSU3S29UAO	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	Pride Goeth Before a Fall	I liked Jared Diamond's last book, but this one is even better.  His starting off with an analysis of Montana really brought his points home for me; I have a brother who lives in Montana.  Diamond is basically sending a wake-up call to our society: economic and social collapse due to environmental degradation has happened to other societies in the past, and it could happen here if we don't take steps to prevent it.  The collapse of the Greenland societies is fascinating reading; Diamond is a fine storyteller.  I liked the analysis of Easter Island also.  When I was younger I was fascinated by Easter Island (I read \\"Kon-Tiki\\"), but I wasn't aware of the new research on the reasons for the end of its civilization.  Diamond makes an excellent response to landowners whose constant refrain is \\"don't tell me what I can do with my land.\\"  Diamond points out that many pieces of land have distant managers, and there is no guarantee that problems will be detected before it is too late.  Where a trend is slow and concealed by wide up-and-down fluctuations, \\"creeping normalcy\\" makes this problem worse.<br /><br />I can argue with a few of Diamond's points, but not with his overall conclusion:  for our society to have a long-term future, we must take steps to control the population of our country and the world, and safeguard our planet's environment.  This book is essential reading for all citizens.  For anyone who thinks that a collapse can't happen here in the good old U.S. of A., I offer you a quote from Proverbs 16:18:  \\"Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.\\"	2005-07-05
US	46072197	RYE5KBI9OLC9L	0691070113	691902010	Luxury Fever	Books	4	23	26	N	N	An Interesting Diagnosis	Frank's point is essentially that Americans spend too much on luxury goods that don't bring them satisfaction, and too little on things they really could make them happier. He makes a good case for using a consumption tax to remedy the situation.  I really enjoyed the analysis of homo economicus versus homo realisticus.  Frank argues that homo economicus (as used in mainstream economics) is concerned with rational betterment of his situation, while real people are concerned as much or even more with doing better than those around them.  When I studied economics I realized that something was wrong with the standard homo economicus model, but Frank lays out the differences very clearly, in ways I hadn't thought of.<br /><br />Frank has some great commentary on the human condition here, too.  My favorite is his analysis of why it helps to get up in the morning if you put your alarm clock out of reach of the bed.  If you don't see what this has to do with economics--read the book!<br /><br />Frank makes some proposals that I think are bluntly naive.  For example, he proposes curing unemployment by a program of public works.  This simply cannot work.  It has, of course, been tried, including the attempt by the Washington DC municipal government in recent decades.  Inevitably it leads to dependency and corruption, and a multiplication of the number of people needing public jobs.  Frank needs to think more about where the incentives are in such a situation.  In my opinion, if the streets are littered with garbage that isn't being picked up, you have to look at where the garbage is coming from and who is benefitting from creating it.  It should be sellers of plastic bottles, paper cups, and the like who should be paying for picking up litter from the streets, not general tax funds.  Frank also needs to pay more attention to population issues.  No public works program can support a continually increasing number of people.  I think Frank also overlooks the large role in overconsumption of having no limits on the interest rates which credit card and mortgage companies are allowed to charge.  Unlimited rates means that such companies have a vested interest in keeping the maximum possible number of Americans on the edge of bankruptcy, and not much of an interest in making sure they lend money only to people who are likely to be able to pay it back.<br /><br />Overall, though, this is a book with some useful and interesting ideas.n of having no limits on the interest rates which credit card and mortgage companies are allowed to charge.  Unlimited rates means that such companies have a vested interest in keeping the maximum possible number of Americans on the edge of bankruptcy, and not much of an interest in making sure they lend money only to people who are likely to be able to pay it back.    <br />Overall, though, this is a book with some useful and interesting ideas.	2005-07-04
US	46072197	R29D8W7OSZYOSG	0807047058	169641957	For The Common Good: Redirecting the Economy toward Community, the Environment, and a Sustainable Future	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Let's hear it for the common good!	I have been a fan of Professor Daly's for some time. This book has some excellent analysis and some truly great commentary. The writing is a bit dry; if you're new to Professor Daly's work, you might want to try one of his other books first, like \\"Beyond Growth.\\"  \\"For the Common Good\\" does have some wonderfully thought-provoking lines.  Just to give you a taste:  \\"Economics cannot do without simplifying assumptions, but the trick is to use the right assumptions at the right time.\\"  Or, with regards to relying on technological fixes for environmental problems: \\"It is one thing to say that knowledge will grow (no one rejects that), but it is something else to presuppose that the content of new knowledge will abolish old limits faster than it discovers new ones.\\"  Another on the same subject:  \\"If it ain't broke, don't fix it; if you must tinker, save all the pieces; and if you don't know where you're going, slow down.\\"  On population control:  \\"Nature's way is not always best, but in this instance it seems more responsible than our current practice of allowing new human beings to be unintended by-products of the sexual fumblings of teenagers whose natural urges have been stimulated by drugs, alcohol, TV, and ill-constructed welfare incentives.\\" Daly's Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare deserves to be far better known than it is.  The analysis of misplaced concreteness, especially as it relates to the nature of debt, is very good.<br /><br />The authors sometimes come across as a little naive in this book.  For example, they propose making the government the employer of last resort.  I think they do not realize just how hard it is to make such programs work; they inevitably decline into a morass of dependency and corruption.  The Washington DC municipal government has taken precisely this approach in the past few decades, with predictable results.<br /><br />I think the authors would also do well to do some research on the failures of utopian communities; since I was raised a Mormon, I know a lot about some of these.  The chapter on religion strikes me as a bit silly. They want to bring God into the building of a more humane society; this is not necessarily bad, but I tend to think that science will take us farther than God will.  In my opinion, Christianity's idea that the Second Coming of Christ is not far off is a very serious barrier to giving humanity's long-term future the attention it deserves.  Talking about ethics, the authors say \\"But to believe that God does exist makes the ethical life more authentic.\\"  Well, that's only true if God really does exist, which I doubt.<br /><br />Overall, the book has some excellent points to make.  If you're interested in economics and public policy, don't miss it.sed a Mormon, I know a lot about some of these.  The chapter on religion strikes me as a bit silly. They want to bring God into the building of a more humane society; this is not necessarily bad, but I tend to think that science will take us farther than God will.  In my opinion, Christianity's idea that the Second Coming of Christ is not far off is a very serious barrier to giving humanity's long-term future the attention it deserves.  Talking about ethics, the authors say \\"But to believe that God does exist makes the ethical life more authentic.\\"  Well, that's only true if God really does exist, which I doubt. <br />Overall, the book has some excellent points to make.  If you're interested in economics and public policy, don't miss it.	2005-07-04
US	46072197	R1TVUCH6C84AGS	0871138883	778854161	The Long Emergency: Surviving the Converging Catastrophes of the Twenty-First Century	Books	5	34	40	N	Y	A Jeremiad in the Original Sense--Don't Miss It	Critics of this book have called it pessimistic and a jeremiad.  As to whether the book is pessimistic or not, that will be hard to know until after the fact.  Not every reader may recall what the word jeremiad actually means.  It refers to the biblical prophet Jeremiah, who prophesied the destruction of the kingdom of Judah.  The kingdom was in a state of complete self-denial about the danger it was in from the Babylonians.  Jeremiah was trying to awaken the people to their danger, but he failed and Judah was conquered.<br /><br />The word jeremiad is therefore very appropriate for Kunstler's book; he is trying to warn America of the danger it is in.  We can only hope that Kunstler is more successful than the ancient Jeremiah.<br /><br />Kunstler does a fine job analyzing the global oil peak.  He also does well at pointing out why several much-touted technologies (like hydrogen cars) just will not work.  Environmentalists would do well to pay attention.  I could argue with Kunstler on ethanol's long term future; for certain specialized uses I think sustainably produced ethanol will indeed be an important fuel.  Of course, this is simply storing solar power in another form, not a source of energy as such.<br /><br />I think our transportation system is more capable of adjusting to drastically lower fossil fuel use than Kunstler does.  I think pedestrian pathways, bicycles, mopeds, light rail systems, and canals could do a surprisingly good job with urban and even suburban transportation at a vastly lower level of U.S. oil use, once the idea sinks in that the other choice is staying home. There is something to be said for American ingenuity once it really puts itself to work on a problem.<br /><br />The book is incomplete in some respects.  Kunstler puts too little emphasis on reforming the science of economics to more accurately reflect reality.  In my opinion, the obsession of mainstream economics with increasing GDP, as opposed to increasing quality of life, is one of the major factors likely to lead to Kunstler's Long Emergency.  I would have liked more on reforming the price structure of fossil fuels to better reflect their actual long-term scarcity; this strikes me as our best hope for a soft landing into the post-Oil-Age world. Kunstler also says too little about the need to stabilize the U.S. population.<br /><br />Overall, though, the book is great.  No truly patriotic American can afford to ignore it.ajor factors likely to lead to Kunstler's Long Emergency.  I would have liked more on reforming the price structure of fossil fuels to better reflect their actual long-term scarcity; this strikes me as our best hope for a soft landing into the post-Oil-Age world. Kunstler also says too little about the need to stabilize the U.S. population.   <br />Overall, though, the book is great.  No truly patriotic American can afford to ignore it.	2005-06-13
US	46072197	R343OH2QI8P14P	0465031161	14842453	The Bottomless Well: The Twilight of Fuel, The Virtue of Waste, and Why We Will Never Run Out of Energy	Books	2	38	71	N	N	Interesting but illogical	The authors' point in this book essentially is that we will never run out of energy, because technology will save us.  I believe the author is correct, that technology will save us, but not quite in the way he imagines.  The technology that will actually save us is a more realistic economics that recognizes an optimal scale for an economy and that minimizes externalities.  The U.S. could be in the forefront of this new technology, but so far it isn't.  This book takes us in the opposite direction.<br />The authors point out that we have improved energy efficiency in some respects, such as LED lighting, but overall energy use has not dropped.  The authors' opinion is that this is due to a sort of magic of technology.  The actual reasons are quite different: first, the population of the U.S. has been increasing steadily.  The number of people living here has more than doubled since the 1940s, and all those people use energy.  Second, the price of oil and other fossil fuels today is far too low, because those prices do not reflect either the long term scarcity of fossil fuels, or the environmental costs of using them.  Therefore there is little pressure to reduce energy use.  As things stand at present in the U.S., we go to extraordinary lengths to assure that fossil fuels remain cheap, starting with tax breaks to oil companies and including war in the Middle East.  This leads to enormous inefficiencies in the economy.<br />I am generally libertarian in my political views; I believe that free markets are the best way to run an economy.  But free markets only work when prices are allowed to reflect reality.  Today in the U.S. that is not the case.<br />The authors criticize other countries, such as the Europeans, for not taking effective steps to expand energy consumption, and thereby stagnating their economies.  The fact is, though, that many European countries have a better quality of life and are happier than Americans are.  If that's stagnation, I'm for it. Mainstream economics has turned a rising GDP into the be-all and end-all of an economy--but isn't the whole point to make life better for people? The GDP is, at best, a very inaccurate measure of how an economy is really doing.  I'd rather see a flat GDP and a rising quality of life any day.<br />The book points out that some developing countries are trying to raise their GDP by industrializing the old-fashioned forget-the-environment way, and recommends the same course for the U.S. In the past we tried that here, and eventually decided that it just wasn't worth the sacrifices.  We haven't yet found all the best approaches to handling environmental issues in an economy; but that's no reason to just give up.<br />The book spends a lot of time making the point that complete efficiency in power usage is impossible.  That's true (I studied the Carnot engine in physics too) but so what?  I've been an environmentalist for years and I've never heard any environmentalist say otherwise.  The fact that we can't achieve perfect efficiency doesn't mean that energy wastage is desirable.<br />The book does make some good points. It is quite true that the demand for energy and order is insatiable.  It is true that nuclear energy has more potential than some environmentalists think.  It is true that some environmentalists make proposals that are naive and unworkable; however, for conservatives to make proposals that are also naive and unworkable does not improve matters.mics has turned a rising GDP into the be-all and end-all of an economy--but isn't the whole point to make life better for people? The GDP is, at best, a very inaccurate measure of how an economy is really doing.  I'd rather see a flat GDP and a rising quality of life any day.   The book points out that some developing countries are trying to raise their GDP by industrializing the old-fashioned forget-the-environment way, and recommends the same course for the U.S. In the past we tried that here, and eventually decided that it just wasn't worth the sacrifices.  We haven't yet found all the best approaches to handling environmental issues in an economy; but that's no reason to just give up.     The book spends a lot of time making the point that complete efficiency in power usage is impossible.  That's true (I studied the Carnot engine in physics too) but so what?  I've been an environmentalist for years and I've never heard any environmentalist say otherwise.  The fact that we can't achieve perfect efficiency doesn't mean that energy wastage is desirable.     The book does make some good points. It is quite true that the demand for energy and order is insatiable.  It is true that nuclear energy has more potential than some environmentalists think.  It is true that some environmentalists make proposals that are naive and unworkable; however, for conservatives to make proposals that are also naive and unworkable does not improve matters.	2005-06-12
US	46072197	R2T2Q5RZWZ7EB0	0060959576	24780754	Eat More, Weigh Less: Dr. Dean Ornish's Life Choice Program for Losing Weight Safely While Eating Abundantly	Books	3	5	15	N	Y	Better than some diet books	Dr. Ornish's book is a nice supplement to my usual diet approach, but a bit too extreme to follow completely.  Has some good tips.  A few of the recipes are good, but most are simply too complex for me to make on a regular basis.  The next edition of the book could use a chapter on the economic and social reasons for the sedentary lifestyle and obesity usual in the U.S. We pay huge amounts of tax money for highways, but not for sidewalks.  Agricultural subsidies see to it that meat, sugar, and corn syrup are unnaturally cheap.  Zoning laws in most places prohibit the building of walkable neighborhoods.  The misguided do-gooders who run the campaign to protect kids from sexual predators have made walking to school a rarity.  Dr. Ornish seems to think that our lack of exercise and poor eating habits are personal failings, to be overcome by a decent eating program.  That is simply not so.	2005-06-08
US	46072197	R3SXZUPOKHHRSW	0897933737	269485288	ShapeWalking: Six Easy Steps to Your Best Body	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Good if you want to be slimmer and trimmer	A good book for anyone who wants to get moving and look and feel better.  The book could use a chapter on the need for changing our present laws which contribute to Americans' obesity and sedentary lifestyle.  Ideally, such a chapter would discuss poor zoning regulations (leading to a lack of walkable neighborhoods), agricultural subsidies (leading to unnaturally cheap sugar, corn syrup, and the like) and laws favoring car use over walking and transit.  Maybe in the next edition.	2005-06-04
US	46072197	R2428F0CUQ830Z	0671888250	336782304	The Geography of Nowhere: The Rise and Decline of America's Man-Made Landscape	Books	5	18	23	N	N	A Don't-Miss Book	A great book for anyone who wants to understand what went wrong with the American Dream.  This book should be required reading for all politicians and government officials, particularly anyone responsible for zoning or transportation.  Sadly, in my neighborhood these positions are all still occupied by people who believe that \\"real people drive to work\\".<br /><br />  The book has some flaws.  The biggest one, in my opinion, is that it hardly mentions the role of population growth in driving sprawl.  Stabilizing the U.S. population is an essential part of improving the quality of life.<br /><br />  One other omission deserves mention.  Kunstler says nothing about who should own and operate public transit.  Virtually all public transportation in the U.S. today is owned and operated by governments.  This has had the inevitable result of government ownership of business--stagnation, poor service, lack of innovation, and wasteful, inefficient operation.  I live in the Washington, DC area, and the local bus and subway systems are so poorly run here it is almost unbelievable; it's oddly reminiscent of the state-run factories of the old Soviet Union. There's an enormous pent-up demand for good public transportation.  (I believe that the next big fortune is likely to be made in subways, buses, light rail, and similar services.) Privatization of public transportation needs to be part of any plan for a turnaround of America's present transportation mess.	2005-06-02
US	46072197	RSVZ8JG44M5IR	0375408908	612091253	The Working Poor: Invisible in America	Books	4	16	27	N	Y	Fascinating but Misses Some Basics	I enjoyed this book tremendously; Shipler is a fine writer.  His overall point is that a lot more could be done about poverty than we are presently doing, and that it wouldn't necessarily cost more money than we are spending now.  I agree!<br /><br />  There are some glaring omissions in the book.  Shipler talks extensively about the problems immigrants face, but he says nothing about how much the condition of the American poor would improve if immigration laws were enforced.  In my opinion, by accepting immigrants from overpopulated countries America is, in effect, subsidizing other countries' irresponsibility in failing to solve their domestic problems.  Shipler echoes the conventional wisdom that immigrants take jobs that native-born Americans wouldn't.  Well, if jobs cleaning houses and picking produce paid $14 an hour, native-born Americans would be lining up for them.  Why don't such jobs pay that much money?  Because with America's loose immigration policy and lax enforcement of even the existing laws, employers know there's always another desperate immigrant willing to work for less. Restricting immigration would do a lot more to help poverty than using taxpayer money to pay for interpreter services, which Shipler mentions approvingly in Chapter 8, or anything else Shipler suggests.<br /><br />  Shipler also says too little about the role of free trade in lowering US wages.  There's a big difference between free trade with countries that have labor and environmental standards similar to our own, and free trade with countries like China where labor and environmental standards are almost non-existent.  Free trade between a high-standard and a low-standard country increases poverty in both countries:  in the high-standard country because it can't compete on the wage front, and in the low-standard country because it ruins its natural resource base.  Subsidizing that trade (as we do when we subsidize transportation costs with artificially cheap oil) simply ruins the trading countries faster.<br /><br />  Shipler's most important omission is in the area of birth control.  I am married and between my husband and I we make a good middle-class income.  We have one child, age seven.  Between paying for child care (after school and during vacations when the public schools are closed), getting the child back and forth to school and child care, taking him to the doctor, attending school events, taking time off to care for him when he is sick, etc., etc., my experience has been that even one child is incredibly expensive both in money and time.  I can't see how our family could possibly manage financially with two children.  Yet over and over again, the poor families in Shipler's book have three children, five children, even eight children or more.  Shipler doesn't even mention that poor families might find it easier to manage if they had fewer kids!  As far as I'm concerned, anyone who has more than two children has NO right to complain that his poverty is society's fault.  Where a nineteen-year-old has three children and is  having trouble feeding them adequately, as a clinic patient described on page 211 of Shipler's book does, this strikes me as the sort of problem that is a lot easier to prevent than solve.  Tubal ligation is one of the most cost-effective ways to prevent poverty known.  And yes, I had one.ading countries faster.     <br />  Shipler's most important omission is in the area of birth control.  I am married and between my husband and I we make a good middle-class income.  We have one child, age seven.  Between paying for child care (after school and during vacations when the public schools are closed), getting the child back and forth to school and child care, taking him to the doctor, attending school events, taking time off to care for him when he is sick, etc., etc., my experience has been that even one child is incredibly expensive both in money and time.  I can't see how our family could possibly manage financially with two children.  Yet over and over again, the poor families in Shipler's book have three children, five children, even eight children or more.  Shipler doesn't even mention that poor families might find it easier to manage if they had fewer kids!  As far as I'm concerned, anyone who has more than two children has NO right to complain that his poverty is society's fault.  Where a nineteen-year-old has three children and is  having trouble feeding them adequately, as a clinic patient described on page 211 of Shipler's book does, this strikes me as the sort of problem that is a lot easier to prevent than solve.  Tubal ligation is one of the most cost-effective ways to prevent poverty known.  And yes, I had one.	2005-04-03
US	46072197	R1XVBD3EY0IIHK	0738208949	899787420	Locust: The Devastating Rise And Mysterious Disappearance Of The Insect That Shaped The American Frontier	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A Fun Insect Whodunit	Before I read this book, I had heard of the great locust swarms of the 19th century, mostly from reading Laura Ingalls Wilder.  I had not realized that swarms of the Rocky Mountain locust no longer flew and that the insect was now believed to be extinct.  This book has great stories on the experiences of the victims of locust swarms.  The second half takes up the question of why the locusts are gone.  It's a good example of a scientist's life and how progress gets made in science.  Much of the research was done by taking insect samples from melting glaciers.  (If you're not convinced yet that global warming is changing the climate, this is a good book for you.)  The pace of the book drags in spots, but overall it is a fascinating tale.	2004-08-21
US	46072197	R2SMGM63LSPP58	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	5	3	8	N	N	History at its Most Exciting	This book takes us from the battle of Salamis in 480 B.C. to the Tet Offensive of 1968 and shows that history can be as much fun as an action movie.  The way history is taught in most schools, you'd think there was nothing duller.  I would like to see a high school history class based on this book; you'd have an excellent chance of producing history buffs by the dozen.<br /><br />  I especially enjoyed the chapter on the battle of Tenochtitlan, in which Hernan Cortes destroyed the Aztec empire and created modern Mexico.  This is a period I knew little or nothing about.  As with all the battles he discusses, Hanson uses it as an example of his theory that the West is dominant today is because of its ability to kill with impunity.  Obviously not everyone agrees with this, or with Hanson's analysis of any of these battles, but he makes a good case for it.<br /><br />  The chapter on the battle of Midway, essentially the turn of the tide in the war in the Pacific in WWII, was also great fun.  I loved Hanson's phrase discussing the contributions of the eccentric American code breakers to the success of the U.S.:  \\"Hundreds of brave Japanese sailors would be cremated at Midway because an officer working in his slippers knew they were coming.\\"<br /><br />  Overall, fun for both history buffs, and for people who don't usually like history but do like action.	2004-08-21
US	46072197	RE1739XO71S9	0312422229	709657752	Growing Up Fast	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Thought-provoking!	This portrait of six teen mothers in a decaying industrial town is a wonderfully thought-provoking book.  The photos help with the impression of a window into their world.  The interlocking influences of economic problems, environmental degradation, drug addiction, and domestic violence are all compelling in explaining their situation.<br /><br />  The behavior of the girls is often so idiotic as to stun the reader.  Colleen's baby, for example, is fathered by Ryan.  Ryan is a heroin addict who steals from Colleen and her family, and beats up Colleen many times, including an incident during her pregnancy that causes permanent injury to the baby.  Society can only be thankful that Ryan spends a lot of time in jail.  Yet Colleen remains faithful to Ryan for years.<br /><br />  One of the book's major themes is the economic decline of Pittsfield, Massachusetts after GE pulled out of the town.  After GE's departure, it left behind a legacy of industrial pollution on a massive scale.  While the book does not address economic questions as such, I think the Pittsfield story shows the need for the costs of pollution to be included in measures of economic growth.  A large part of Pittsfield's prosperity when GE was there can only be described as an illusion.  For more on this question, I would recommend the book \\"Beyond Growth\\" by Herman Daly.<br /><br />  Some of the policies recommended in the book strike me as naive.  For example, the author concludes with a quote from Carol Gilligan (who helped with the book's preparation) that \\"The problem with these girls is that there is no safety net.  The absence of resources really needs to be addressed.\\"  The book itself shows that this is simply not true.  These girls and their babies received enormous public resources, including welfare payments, subsidized rent, subsidized day care, free medical care, social services, etc., etc.  Giving a larger safety net to such girls would only encourage more teen births.  This is easy to see from the book's stories on Amy and Shayla, who each went on to have a second baby out of wedlock.  The others haven't had more babies yet, though given their talent for making poor choices I certainly wouldn't put it past any of them.  In the long run, I think we will be better off putting more resources into birth control and pregnancy prevention, not more support for teen mothers.  The book does have some good proposals on providing incentives to teen mothers not to have another child.<br /><br />  Some of the girls made it clear that their decision not to abort their babies was inspired by religion.  The book does not follow up on this.  I think the Catholic church and other churches opposed to abortion have a lot to answer for here.  If they feel it is unethical to use birth control or have an abortion, that is fine with me; but I believe they must take responsibility for the results.  \\"Abstinence-only\\" programs can be effective in reducing teen births, but it is harder to do than other approaches, and there is a price to be paid for that.  I don't see churches willing to pay for research into establishing what programs really work, getting them implemented, and paying for the difference in cost.  If a girl doesn't have an abortion because her church tells her abortion is a sin, it should be her church that supports her and her baby, not taxpayers.<br /><br />  Overall, the book is well written and the stories are fascinating.  I had a hard time putting it down.  Don't miss it!the book's stories on Amy and Shayla, who each went on to have a second baby out of wedlock.  The others haven't had more babies yet, though given their talent for making poor choices I certainly wouldn't put it past any of them.  In the long run, I think we will be better off putting more resources into birth control and pregnancy prevention, not more support for teen mothers.  The book does have some good proposals on providing incentives to teen mothers not to have another child.   <br />  Some of the girls made it clear that their decision not to abort their babies was inspired by religion.  The book does not follow up on this.  I think the Catholic church and other churches opposed to abortion have a lot to answer for here.  If they feel it is unethical to use birth control or have an abortion, that is fine with me; but I believe they must take responsibility for the results.  \\"Abstinence-only\\" programs can be effective in reducing teen births, but it is harder to do than other approaches, and there is a price to be paid for that.  I don't see churches willing to pay for research into establishing what programs really work, getting them implemented, and paying for the difference in cost.  If a girl doesn't have an abortion because her church tells her abortion is a sin, it should be her church that supports her and her baby, not taxpayers.  <br />  Overall, the book is well written and the stories are fascinating.  I had a hard time putting it down.  Don't miss it!	2004-08-21
US	46072197	RR72QZO2ZPZO1	0393073319	138783711	An American Doctor's Odyssey: Adventures in Forty-Five Countries	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Insights from the Past into Modern Medical Care	This book has been one of my favorites for many years.  I read it first in paperback, and after that fell apart I managed to find a used hardback copy.  The book is the autobiography of Victor Heiser, M.D.  The book starts with a bang with Heiser as a teenager surviving the Johnstown flood.  (His parents were killed.)  The rest of the book is mostly anecdotes taken from his medical career.  Dr. Heiser is perhaps the ultimate example of the international public health doctor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. He spent much of his career as the U.S.'s Director of Health in the Philippines.  Much of the book is organized by disease:  he discusses smallpox, plague, cholera, leprosy, hookworm, etc.  Heiser's main point is that health comes mostly from vaccination, clean water, good food, sanitation, and isolation of people sick with contagious diseases, not from expensive medical care.<br /><br />  Nearly every page of the book has a great story; you get the impression that Heiser must have been a fantastic dinner guest.  Heiser's stories of vaccinating the uncivilized tribesmen of the Philippines are medical adventure at its best.<br /><br />  Towards the end of his career Heiser became a representative of the Rockefeller Foundation and spent his time traveling the world selling public health to the masses.  The book bogs down a bit here; sometimes you wish Heiser would stop bragging about the number of times he's visited each country and tell more stories.<br /><br />  For the modern reader, Heiser's book is still surprisingly relevant, though maybe not in ways he intended.  Heiser and other public health doctors are perhaps the persons most responsible for today's overpopulation of the earth.  The fact is that if you save a life, you must prevent a birth somewhere else, or risk overrunning your resources.  Heiser had no concept of limits.  In my opinion, today's doctors have for the most part still never understood this, with the result that they often cause more harm than good.<br /><br />  Another important point for modern readers is the concept of diminishing returns for medical care.  Heiser's book shows this clearly.  Heiser, who was starting with Philippine peasants that had never seen a doctor, could save thousands of lives with a few dollars' worth of vaccines.  Today we may spend a million dollars on a single transplant patient or premature baby.  Are we really getting our moneys' worth?  I don't think so.<br /><br />  Overall, a very good book if you can find it.ore harm than good.  <br />  Another important point for modern readers is the concept of diminishing returns for medical care.  Heiser's book shows this clearly.  Heiser, who was starting with Philippine peasants that had never seen a doctor, could save thousands of lives with a few dollars' worth of vaccines.  Today we may spend a million dollars on a single transplant patient or premature baby.  Are we really getting our moneys' worth?  I don't think so.  <br />    Overall, a very good book if you can find it.	2004-08-21
US	46072197	RQXNPSN9PHXMN	0679642889	323374805	Evolution: The Remarkable History of a Scientific Theory (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Good for Adding Historical Context	This book does a good job at placing evolution by natural selection into its historical context as an idea.  I enjoyed seeing the comparison of Darwin's ideas with the competing ideas of scientists of his time.  The historical approach makes it clear why Darwin's ideas have been so successful:  they have plenty of predictive power.  This book makes clear that the central problem with creationist theories is precisely their lack of predictive power.  In Darwin's time creationists could still claim to be reputable scientists.  Unfortunately, the creationist hypotheses, such as that species could not go extinct, turned out to be wrong.  In our time, it's easy to say that God created something, but what does that explain about why plants or animals are the way they are?  Not much.<br /><br />  This book is for the college-level reader; it can be technical and a little slow-paced in places.	2004-08-21
US	46072197	R17IB7G05T7NRK	1559633123	312002803	Ecological Economics: Principles and Applications (Ecological Economics Textbook)	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	A Solid Text on an Increasingly Important Science	Ecological economics is a relatively new field that I believe will be central to economics in this century.  This text book presents the basics.  It is more comprehensive than most other works in this area, and also has greater depth.  (If this is your first expedition into ecological economics, though, you might want to try instead \\"Beyond Growth\\", by one of this book's co-authors.)<br /><br />  This text book points out that ever-greater material consumption provided by never-ending economic growth is the agreed-upon end for traditional economics and most of modern society.  The problem with this conventional approach is that it is impossible to achieve, and probably would be undesirable anyway even if we could achieve it.<br /><br />  The text offers a fresh approach to one of the most important economic problems of our time.  Conventional economics papers over the problem of just distribution of wealth by buying off the poor with the offer of a larger slice of an ever-growing economic pie.  Unfortunately, using conventional economic measures like GDP, the pie may look larger even as it is actually shrinking.  This ultimately helps no one, least of all the poor.  The book argues convincingly that a steady-state economy offers hope of real progress in this area.<br /><br />  I don't agree with some of the author's points.  The authors spend a lot of time arguing about determinism, relativism, and nihilism, and state that rejection of all these doctrines is necessary for someone to have any opinions on policy.  Their argument seems to be that belief in an ultimate end such as God is necessary to believe that anything matters at all. The book's logic here strikes me as a lot less airtight than the authors seem to think.  I know plenty of Christians who believe that due to the imminent Second Coming of Christ, humanity's future isn't likely to extend more than a few decades into the future.  This belief understandably leads to a certain disregard for the whole concept of sustainability.  Many believers in God also think  that what we do to the earth doesn't matter very much, because it is all part of God's plan, and anyway the afterlife is what really counts.  The atheists of my acquaintance tend, on average, to be much more concerned about humanity's long-term future, since they can't count on God to pull a rabbit out of a hat.<br /><br />  The text's authors criticize the idea that sustainability can be achieved by internalizing all external costs and benefits.  Such internalization has problems, certainly, but I think the problems are more solvable than the authors do.  I very much liked the text's analysis of goods as excludable or non-excludable, and rival or non-rival. For nonexcludable rival goods (such as fisheries) the authors state that rational self-interest creates an invisible foot that kicks the common good in the rear--one of the many memorable phrases in this book.<br /><br />  I was glad to see a discussion of the positional nature of welfare--meaning that above a certain subsistence level our sense of well-being is largely dependent on how we compare to those around us.  I think this is a very important subject that is entirely ignored by conventional economics.  What's the point of trashing the planet to achieve higher incomes, if we're not actually any happier as a result of those higher incomes?  (After all, even a glance at People Magazine is enough to show that it's possible to be very rich and utterly miserable.)  The text's authors admit that quantifying what really makes people happy is difficult, but point out that on something as important as this, it is better to use an economic measure that is vaguely right rather than precisely wrong.  Bravo!<br /><br />  I disagree with much of the authors' discussion of monopolies.  I think that monopolies under certain circumstances can be helpful in achieving sustainability.  Since this is the subject of some of my own research, though, I won't discuss it here.<br /><br />  I especially enjoyed this book's chapters on policy.  The nutshell here is that sustainability is the proper criterion for the overall scale of the economy, and that justice is the proper criterion for distribution.  The authors make a good case for the necessity of using input quotas to restrict depletion of resources, which I hadn't realized before.  I would have liked to have seen more discussion of population issues, though.<br /><br />  Overall, a very good book for someone who is interested in ecological economics and wants to go in deeper.especially enjoyed this book's chapters on policy.  The nutshell here is that sustainability is the proper criterion for the overall scale of the economy, and that justice is the proper criterion for distribution.  The authors make a good case for the necessity of using input quotas to restrict depletion of resources, which I hadn't realized before.  I would have liked to have seen more discussion of population issues, though.   <br />  Overall, a very good book for someone who is interested in ecological economics and wants to go in deeper.	2004-08-15
US	46072197	R2B8DSB1NA4DLU	1891620673	918611988	The Wealth Of Man	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Waltz Through Time and Economics	Peter Jay's book is a sprawling review of the economic history of mankind. Mr. Jay's theme is the waltz motif, where an economic advance is made, followed by outsiders and free riders trying to muscle in on the goods, followed in some cases by social and political solutions to the new problems. The waltz motif analysis is usefully applied to numerous eras, including the development of agriculture, the fall of Rome, and World War I. I especially enjoyed the analysis of the economic history of India and China.<br /><br /> Mr. Jay uses per capita economic output, GDP (Gross Domestic Product) per head, or real (adjusted for inflation and the like) income per head as his main economic measures. This is a refreshing change from the too-common practice of using straight GDP. Mr. Jay states that due to industrialization, real income per capita has increased twelve-fold since 1780. Fascinating!<br /><br /> The problems with Mr. Jay's analysis are mostly those of GDP itself and the other standard economic measures he uses. GDP does not include any correction for the costs of pollution, or for the depletion of natural resources. Industrialization involved an enormous increase in both pollution and resource depletion, as Mr. Jay indicates. I'm convinced that many of the economic gains of industrialization were real. I wonder, though, how much of that twelve-fold increase is due to drawdown of natural capital. I would like to see the same analysis done in terms of ISEW (Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare) or GPI (Genuine Progress Indicator) rather than GDP.<br /><br /> Mr. Jay notes that much of the progress in improving quality of life during the era of industrialization came from demographic restraint. Due to various controls, the population did not increase during industrialization nearly as much as it could have. This is an excellent insight, but it is not applied very much to the rest of the book. It would seem quite logical, for instance, that the surge in the population of U.S. working-age adults in the early 1970s contributed to unemployment at that time; but there is nothing about this. In the summing-up chapter at the end, Mr. Jay dismisses concerns about overpopulation by stating that population growth is slowing anyway and population is likely to top out at only 50% more than the present population. This does not strike me as reassuring. If prior eras could limit their population growth so that quality of life improved, why can't we?<br /><br /> Mr. Jay says that economic growth can continue indefinitely because knowledge and innovation have no limits. I am not convinced. In my opinion, knowledge and innovation are dependent on a resource base. Mr. Jay mentions that solving the problem of externalities is part of our future challenges. I think that the problem of externalities is central to economic history, including the rise and fall of both ancient and modern empires. Will we be able to solve the externality problem in this waltz step?<br /><br /> Overall, a good book with many excellent points. I think too many economists have little or no sense of historical perspective. This book can help to change that.king-age adults in the early 1970s contributed to unemployment at that time; but there is nothing about this. In the summing-up chapter at the end, Mr. Jay dismisses concerns about overpopulation by stating that population growth is slowing anyway and population is likely to top out at only 50% more than the present population. This does not strike me as reassuring. If prior eras could limit their population growth so that quality of life improved, why can't we? <br /> Mr. Jay says that economic growth can continue indefinitely because knowledge and innovation have no limits. I am not convinced. In my opinion, knowledge and innovation are dependent on a resource base. Mr. Jay mentions that solving the problem of externalities is part of our future challenges. I think that the problem of externalities is central to economic history, including the rise and fall of both ancient and modern empires. Will we be able to solve the externality problem in this waltz step?  <br /> Overall, a good book with many excellent points. I think too many economists have little or no sense of historical perspective. This book can help to change that.	2004-07-25
US	46072197	RLF6PEU3X8MA1	0465081436	292690162	Applied Economics: Thinking Beyond Stage One	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A Great Book (Even for Environmentalists)	Thomas Sowell describes economics as thinking beyond Stage One-considering the later consequences of present policies.  This is a great message, and one I wish our national leaders understood.  I am a biochemist and a patent attorney, and I consider myself an environmentalist.  Most environmentalists, unfortunately, need to think much more about Stage Two and beyond.  This book is a good way to start this process and correct some of the naivete that surrounds environmental policy proposals. Mr. Sowell's analysis of recycling, for example, is a much-needed insertion of reality into this area.<br />  I enjoyed the analyses of medical care and risk-taking.  Mr. Sowell makes the excellent point that drug prices convey an underlying reality that is not nearly as easily changed as the prices are; drug price controls are therefore self-defeating.  I felt Mr. Sowell did not go far enough on this, however.  Life insurance works because it is reasonably easy to tell whether someone is dead or not, and because successfully killing someone for the insurance money is difficult and risky.  Health insurance works poorly because there simply is no way to define &quot;good&quot; health care, much less tell whether or not someone else's child is receiving it.  The demand for medical care is essentially infinite; nearly everyone would like themselves and their families to have better health than they presently do.  As soon as a third party payer enters the picture, the necessary connection between demand for health care and the available resources of the patient or his family becomes a fog filled with conflicts of interest.<br />  Mr. Sowell's analysis of zoning laws is basically good.  I agree that we need much more consideration of the role of zoning laws in creating urban sprawl.  I think Mr. Sowell puts too much emphasis on the role of &quot;open space&quot; in this, though.  The main problem is not that we don't allow people to build in the remaining open space, but that thanks to too-restrictive zoning, housing density is far too low in the locations (such as near jobs, shopping, schools, parks, and subway stations) where people want to live. In my own neighborhood (Falls Church, Virginia), demand for housing is intense and home prices are soaring, but thanks to zoning and local politics, the few remaining lots are mostly having single-family houses built on them.  Ridiculous!<br />  Mr. Sowell's analysis is faulty in some areas.  He too easily dismisses overpopulation as a serious problem.  The difficulty is that if people are not required to pay the full costs of raising their own children, they will raise more children than they or their society can afford. If we are going to have such &quot;pro-child&quot; policies as universal free education, therefore, we must balance that with taking steps to control population.<br />  Mr. Sowell admits that there is a limit to the earth's capacity to sustain human life, but says this is not a problem because we are still far from the limit.  I am not convinced that we are as far from the limit as he thinks.  The earth's resources (and its waste sinks) are being used at a rate which is simply not sustainable even over a time span of decades, never mind centuries.  Mr. Sowell's analysis would be correct if there were no externalities.  The fact is, though, that resource use is in effect very heavily subsidized.  Users of crude oil, for example, do not now have to pay the costs of air pollution, roads, auto accidents, wars to protect the oil flow, climate change, and the like, but instead shove these costs off onto others.  As long as this continues, crude oil will continue to be overused and the economy will be less efficient as a result.  I would like to see Mr. Sowell's formidable abilities applied to the problem of solving the &quot;Stage Two&quot; problem of externalities, rather than simply sweeping it under the rug.too-restrictive zoning, housing density is far too low in the locations (such as near jobs, shopping, schools, parks, and subway stations) where people want to live. In my own neighborhood (Falls Church, Virginia), demand for housing is intense and home prices are soaring, but thanks to zoning and local politics, the few remaining lots are mostly having single-family houses built on them.  Ridiculous!<BR>  Mr. Sowell's analysis is faulty in some areas.  He too easily dismisses overpopulation as a serious problem.  The difficulty is that if people are not required to pay the full costs of raising their own children, they will raise more children than they or their society can afford. If we are going to have such &quot;pro-child&quot; policies as universal free education, therefore, we must balance that with taking steps to control population.   <BR>  Mr. Sowell admits that there is a limit to the earth's capacity to sustain human life, but says this is not a problem because we are still far from the limit.  I am not convinced that we are as far from the limit as he thinks.  The earth's resources (and its waste sinks) are being used at a rate which is simply not sustainable even over a time span of decades, never mind centuries.  Mr. Sowell's analysis would be correct if there were no externalities.  The fact is, though, that resource use is in effect very heavily subsidized.  Users of crude oil, for example, do not now have to pay the costs of air pollution, roads, auto accidents, wars to protect the oil flow, climate change, and the like, but instead shove these costs off onto others.  As long as this continues, crude oil will continue to be overused and the economy will be less efficient as a result.  I would like to see Mr. Sowell's formidable abilities applied to the problem of solving the &quot;Stage Two&quot; problem of externalities, rather than simply sweeping it under the rug.	2004-07-18
US	46072197	RXLR6BRSSZ5LR	0517548232	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: The Shortest and Surest Way to Understand Basic Economics	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Good But Some Holes	Henry Hazlitt's book starts with a single lesson-that economics means looking beyond the immediate effects of any act or policy to the consequences of it for everyone.  The rest of the book is a series of short chapters giving examples of the application of this lesson.<br />  Hazlitt's lesson in itself is great.  I wish it were better known.  His examples vary in quality.  Some are a bit dated; natural for a book which mostly dates to 1946.  The chapter on rent control is as relevant today as ever.  The discussion of the cost of war and other types of destructive activities punctures a misconception that is still common.  In his discussion of unemployment, however, he fails to mention immigration and population growth as part of the cause.<br />  The section on tariffs is good as far as it goes.  The problem with his analysis is that transportation today is in effect heavily subsidized.  Oil companies and the like don't have to pay for the air pollution and climate change caused by their products, or for roads, or for the armies protecting the oil flow.  Subsidized transportation costs make nonsense of the idea that local and imported goods are really on the same footing.  Free trade with countries having non-existent environmental laws simply sets up a race to the bottom, with responsible companies heading for bankruptcy and irresponsible companies destroying the economic foundations of their own countries.<br />  Hazlitt swallows whole the idea that growth in GNP is always good and can continue indefinitely.  Given that GNP doesn't include the costs of pollution, resource depletion, the effects of population growth, or quality of life, this is very questionable.  Hazlitt needs to apply his own &quot;one lesson&quot; here.<br />  Hazlitt states in his first sentence that economics is haunted by more fallacies than any other study known to man.  I tend to agree.  Hazlitt points out some of them and does it in a very readable way.  Hazlitt fails with some of the other fallacies.  Read the book, but read it with a grain of salt.fallacies.  Read the book, but read it with a grain of salt.	2004-07-17
US	46072197	R32V28GAHM28AB	0471269964	631476329	The Passionate Economist: Finding the Power and Humanity Behind the Numbers	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Good But Some Blind Spots	This is an interesting account of the career of a successful business economist.  Diane Swonk puts plenty of passion into her economics, which is great.  She's a good writer. Her call for more accurate economic statistics is well taken.  I like her definition of economics as &quot;the study of collective human behavior.&quot;  She states one of her purposes as educating armchair economists; as a biochemist and patent attorney by profession, I certainly feel I have learned something from her.<br />  The book's flaws are mostly in its assumptions.  Ms. Swonk thrills to every tiny increase in GDP, but she never stops to ask what GDP really means.  GDP by definition excludes any consideration of depletion of resources, costs of pollution, effects of population growth, or quality of life.  GDP has its uses in making short-term business forecasts, but applying it more generally to say how the country's economy is going is questionable at best.  More accurate measures of the U.S. economy, such as the Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW), tend to show that the amount of true economic growth per capita since 1947 has been fairly small, and that there has been little or no real growth since 1980.  It strikes me as odd, therefore, that Ms. Swonk believes so sincerely that increasing GDP is the key to improving our country's prosperity. Most people's sense of economic well-being depends greatly on whether they're better off than others, so that trying to improve people's lives by continually increasing GDP strikes me as a squirrel cage to nowhere.<br />  Ms. Swonk states that immigration is good for the economy, which I think is very questionable.  Immigration may be good for business in the short term; in the long term it is simply subsidizing other countries by letting them export their population problems here.  Ms. Swonk includes a push for more deregulation.  I agree that deregulation is helpful in some instances, but where significant externalities exist deregulation is likely to make our country's economic situation worse.<br />  Ms. Swonk's discussion of her personal life seems to show the same blind spot.  She details her struggles dealing with an asthmatic son, but it never crosses her mind that polluted air could be affecting him.ation is likely to make our country's economic situation worse.    <BR>   Ms. Swonk's discussion of her personal life seems to show the same blind spot.  She details her struggles dealing with an asthmatic son, but it never crosses her mind that polluted air could be affecting him.	2004-07-11
US	46072197	R22UQCKQ4MNEKG	0807047090	792163126	Beyond Growth: The Economics of Sustainable Development	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	A Truly Important Book	Don't miss reading this book!  When I read conventional economics, I constantly find myself asking why most economists use such ridiculous assumptions.  Herman Daly's book tells why, and gives a start of what to do about it.  Mr. Daly's work convinced me that economics will soon be undergoing a revolution like that of physics in the time of Einstein.  As a patent attorney with a biochemistry degree, I can tell you that Mr. Daly is right on the money when he discusses the importance to humanity's future of discarding GNP as an economic measure. If you didn't realize before that understanding entropy is essential to economics, Mr. Daly will tell you.  There is plenty of other great stuff here, too.<br /> I don't agree with all of Mr. Daly's points.  One of his major themes is that being truly concerned about the environment and the future of humanity requires reverence for the Earth as God's creation.  Since I am an atheist, and I am very concerned about the environment and the future of humanity, I find this viewpoint a little hard to swallow. Don't let that stop you from reading this great book, though.	2004-07-01
US	46072197	R1F7GD2G4LYQWJ	1573929778	930321021	The Ghost in the Universe: God in Light of Modern Science	Books	5	13	16	N	N	A Great Defense	Since I come from a Mormon background, I have many friends and family members who are devoted Mormons.  These people don't understand why a sensible person like me could be an atheist.  The arguments I hear from them are precisely the ones addressed in this book.  Now I have the ammunition to stand my own ground!	2003-12-28
US	46072197	R2ERBIJEHKWQDL	0380726823	623351210	How To Want What You Have	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Next Step Up	If you are interested in being happier, this book is for you.  I read it first at the library, then bought a copy.  I read it over often and find it helpful each time.  The basic idea is that humans have an instinctive desire to get MORE wealth, status, and the like, no matter how much they already have.  Getting off this road to nowhere is hard to do because the desire for more is instinctive.  While applying Miller's ideas completely would be a lifetime's work, I find that doing even a little works to make me happier.  If you have problems with depression, this book works well in combination with other books on cognitive therapy, like Burns' Feeling Good.	2003-04-26
