US	46120996	R112LOQWVQVPKN	0674013204	118143063	Mind Time: The Temporal Factor in Consciousness (Perspectives in Cognitive Neuroscience)	Books	4	36	46	N	Y	As expected	Benjamin Libet deserves some kind of prize. His studies, pioneering work on the neurophysiology of consicousness, were conducted back when there was no ¨cognitive¨ in cognitive neuroscience, and much less the word ¨consciousness¨ in science in general. His work is certainly now familiar to most who are interested in the philosophy of mind, or the neural bases of the mind. In this respect, this book advances few new evidence. But it does advance LIbets speculations on the significance of his finds.<br /><br />He starts the book with very shaky philosophical assumptions. He explicitly says the scientific study of consciousness must make no assumptions on the mind-brain relationship. Yet he claims that qualia are not explainable in physical terms, that consicousness and qualia are the same thing, that the only valid form of evidence is instrospection, that cosnciousness is a content independent phenomenon. These are a prioiri assumptions. None will be admitted by most without argument, but Libet expects us to. All of this stems, of course, from LIbets extreme verificationism, disguised as scientific rigour. He holds the very dated notion that the only valid scientific knowledge attainable is that which can be falsified. Thus he shuns aside every philosophical, or scientific for that matter, progress done because he believes it cannot be put to empirical test. Circle of Vienna, here we go again.<br /><br />But nobody is a verificationist anymore. At least not philosophers. And given that scientists interested in consicousness would part from Libets ideas, and philosophers will too, Libet is alone against the world.<br /><br />Libet famously found that there is a delay in consicous awareness. That is, a stimulus becomes conscious if it elicits brain activity that lasts for 500 miliseconds or so. THat is, the difference between cosncious and unconsicous brain activity, is a matter of duration. (hence the title of the book). We do not experience the world as lagging behind, because consicousness is refered to the earlier apparition of another type of brain activity. So far so good. His evidence is strong, robust, and so far, very significant to the prospects of explaining the neural bases of consciousness. But is Libet right?<br />Well, Daniel Dennett does not think so. He claims the delay is due not to cosnciousness per se, but to the laying down of a memory trace for the stimulus to be reported. Libet argues that Dennett is wrong, because patients with no hippocampus (memory defects) are still consicous. Maybe he is right. But Libet, a scientist, seems to preocupied with philsophers and ignores other lines of evidence.<br /><br />LIbet holds that the only thing that makes a stimulus consicous is the time the neural activity lasts, not where the activity is at. Consider ,now, spatial neglect. In this condition, patients are unaware of stimulus in the oposite visual space of a unilateral parietal lesion. This means that libet would have to argue that the duration of brain activity in visual areas is mediated by the parietal cortex, which seems odd. What about brain imaging studies. One of them, conducted by Lumer and Rees, found that the difference between a conscious and an unconsicous stimulus was reflected in a fMRI only with a difference in intensity of activation, not duration or location. This is direct counter evidence to LIbets proposal. Libet does not consider these studies. Nor does he consider the fact of epilepsy, where brain activity is quite long in duration, but different in amplitude and frequency, and the patient is unconsicous. Time cannot be the only factor. If it is, proving so requires more than what LIbet offers.<br /><br />Libet also famoulsy found that brain activity preceeds the consicous will to act for about 200 miliseconds. He also proposes that the notion of free will can be mantained, because there is time to veto consciously willed actions. You do not begin your actions, but you modulate them.<br /><br />Again, his evidence is strong, robust and significant. But what about his 'veto¨speculation. IT is unecessary. Firstly, materialists should not be surprised with the fact that cosncious will comes late in the game. If consicous will is the result of brain processes, it cannot antedate these processes. Secondly, the obvious question arises if the veto function is not preceeded by unconsicous brain activity in turn. Libet here argues that it must not, for even if the awareness of the decision to veto requires brain activity, the content of that awareness (the actual descition to veto), need not. This reply depends of course, on the independence of consicousness from its content, an assumption that LIbet gives us no reason to accept. It is also, of course, clear that the analogy Libet tries to make is that between internally and externally generated activity. It is obvious in perception that the brain activity that causes consicousness of an object in the world is one thing, and that the object in the external world requires no brain activity. But it is not so obvious with a ¨decision to veto¨ because such ¨thing¨ is not depndent on external imput. IT is dependent on internally generated, BRAIN generated, activity. Alas, the analogy fails.<br /><br />It seems libet proposes his veto theory only because he thinks that otherwise we will be nothing but automatons, mere robots. We would loose sense of responsibility. And the guilt would fall on his discoveries. BUt nobody is claiming this at all (well, some have taken LIbets work to mean this, but the point is that it need not). Brain activity is at the end still OUR  brain activity. Brain activity can still be said to be consicous or uncosncious. Resposibility need not fear determinism, wether determinsism is right or wrong.<br /><br />But Libet, of course, would not consider speculating on any of this, because it would not be testable. And accordingly, Libet proposes his mental-field-theory, a theory of consicousness explaining all these findings, along with the description of how the theory could be experimentally tested (it consists of an ingenius way to see if an neurally isolated cortical slice can cause consicousness in a subject). The theory holds that a consicous-field, somehting like a force field, that depends on neural activity but does not need it to be transmitted from brain area to brain area, would explain the mind-brain relationship. Is he right? here we must wait for somebody to carry out the experiment. Any bets? Well, I would go with those who believe nerve fibers serve a purpose.<br /><br />Libet, as I said, deserves a prize. He deserves his book to be read by those interested in the field, too. And his findings will shape, and must be explicable by,  any theory of consicousness proposed. But his speculations on the mind-brain relationship will probably have the same fate as those of of his mentor, Sir John Eccles (anybody remembers psychons?).ant. But what about his 'vetospeculation. IT is unecessary. Firstly, materialists should not be surprised with the fact that cosncious will comes late in the game. If consicous will is the result of brain processes, it cannot antedate these processes. Secondly, the obvious question arises if the veto function is not preceeded by unconsicous brain activity in turn. Libet here argues that it must not, for even if the awareness of the decision to veto requires brain activity, the content of that awareness (the actual descition to veto), need not. This reply depends of course, on the independence of consicousness from its content, an assumption that LIbet gives us no reason to accept. It is also, of course, clear that the analogy Libet tries to make is that between internally and externally generated activity. It is obvious in perception that the brain activity that causes consicousness of an object in the world is one thing, and that the object in the external world requires no brain activity. But it is not so obvious with a decision to veto because such thing is not depndent on external imput. IT is dependent on internally generated, BRAIN generated, activity. Alas, the analogy fails.    It seems libet proposes his veto theory only because he thinks that otherwise we will be nothing but automatons, mere robots. We would loose sense of responsibility. And the guilt would fall on his discoveries. BUt nobody is claiming this at all (well, some have taken LIbets work to mean this, but the point is that it need not). Brain activity is at the end still OUR  brain activity. Brain activity can still be said to be consicous or uncosncious. Resposibility need not fear determinism, wether determinsism is right or wrong.    But Libet, of course, would not consider speculating on any of this, because it would not be testable. And accordingly, Libet proposes his mental-field-theory, a theory of consicousness explaining all these findings, along with the description of how thetheory could be experimentally tested (it consists of an ingenius way to see if an neurally isolated cortical slice can cause consicousness in a subject). The theory holds that a consicous-field, somehting like a force field, that depends on neural activity but does not need it to be transmitted from brain area to brain area, would explain the mind-brain relationship. Is he right? here we must wait for somebody to carry out the experiment. Any bets? Well, I would go with those who believe nerve fibers serve a purpose.    Libet, as I said, deserves a prize. He deserves his book to be read by those interested in the field, too. And his findings will shape, and must be explicable by,  any theory of consicousness proposed. But his speculations on the mind-brain relationship will probably have the same fate as those of of his mentor, Sir John Eccles (anybody remembers psychons?).	2004-10-23
US	46120996	R1BFR93XXXEY7B	0262633086	855079401	Being No One: The Self-Model Theory of Subjectivity (MIT Press)	Books	5	128	139	N	Y	Finally.The monster can be tamed.	This book is very hard to review. There are many reasons for this. One is that I may be biased: I think this may be the most important book written about consciousness in the last couple of decades. Then there is the fact that the book is enormous in scope, (and not far in size either- it is 650 pages long), brilliantly written and argued, and succeeds in doing something few other related books do. Reading this book makes you feel that consciousness has been explained. It makes you feel that the monster has been tamed, that progress can be made, that those who believe there can be no sensible exxplanation for consicousness are just wrong. Now in reality, it is not obvious that consciousness HAS been explained. But one feels like it has. And this is why I think this book is superior to Daniel Dennetts ¨Consicousness explained¨, arguably the book regarded as the most significant and influential philosophical contribution in the field. After reading Dennett, few believed consicousness had been explaied. Even few felt like it had. This book is unique, and I believe it is a matter of time until its impact is made apparent.<br /><br />Metzinger wanted to show that the self can be explained in subpersonal terms, using representational analysis. He quickly noticed that since Selves are usually consicous entities, that he would first have to do this for consciousness. Imagine that. Having to explain consicousness to try to explain the self. And so, the book could be seen as divided in two. First, a theory of consicousness, and second, a theory of the self. I am by far more impressed with the former, although undoubtedly the latter is extremely interesting as well.<br /><br />Before proposing a number of theorethical entities supposed to play the explanatory role, Metzinger carefully analyses the conceptual tools necessary to understand the problem, and formulate solutions. Thus, he analyses the concepts of representation, mental model, phenomenal presentation, etc. His account is also almost completely positive; that is, he almost does not stop to defend his ideas, or to analyse other philosphical theories. He focuses on arguing step-by step for a conceptual edifice that may lead to the explanation of phenomenal states in terms of non-phenomenal objective relations. This part of the book alone seems to me to be one of the strongest formulations of a representational theory of mental states.<br /><br />Metzinger, then, is able to answer the question of what makes a mental state a conscious state. He argues that mental states have representational, and these states can have phenomenal content if the representational states meet some constraints. Consciously experienced content is content of an active phenomenal model, and phenomenal contents are all representational. The various constraints are the conditions that the representational content must meet in order for it to be a phenomenal content. Examples of these constraints are globality (integration into a global whole), activation in a window of presence, transparency.<br /><br />The constraints are what makes these ideas powerful. Metzinger analyses the constraints in representational, phenomenological, information-processing, functional and neural-implementation terms. He gives what could be seen as necesary and sufficient conditions for a mental state to be a consicous state. He presents a theory of consicousness. And a very sensible, conceptually simple, naturalistic, and powerful one.<br /><br />After doing this, he shows how his analysis can acomodate some abnormal phenomenons like blindsight, agnosia, and neglect. He then does much of the same last steps with the problem of the self. He defines concepts like subjectivity, self-hood, self-models. Then he proposes theorethical entities like the phenomenal self model, or the phenomenal model of the intentianality relation, to try to show how the conscious self might emerge. Here too metzinger argues that self content must meet some constraints to be considered phenomenal self content. He also tests his constructs against cases like anosognosia, multiple persoality, lucid dreams.<br /><br />In sum, Metzinger deals with everything from mental representation, to content, qualia, subjectivity, intentionality, self, and does it in carefully ordered and convincing ways. Metzinger is a philosopher, and the theory is mostly philsophical. But few philsophers include such careful empirical and neurobiological observations. Few philosophers have such knowledge of the extensive literature. Few are as convinced of the central role that scientific objective theorethizing must play.<br /><br />I must repeat that it is in no way evident that consciousness is explained in Metzingers book. But if there is a book that will set the conceptual framework that leads to such an explanation, it is this one. It is virtually imposible to explain his ideas concisely, and to understand them one has to follow his discussion completely. Therefore, I can do not much but to recomend that anyone interested in consicousness read this book. The book is quite technical and it is fairly long, however I believe that this should not stop the lay reader. The book is in my opinion simply too important. I have reviewed close to 100 books now, most of them on consicousness. I have said on numerous times that such or such a book is a must read. This one is the one I think more closely matches that description.e constraints to be considered phenomenal self content. He also tests his constructs against cases like anosognosia, multiple persoality, lucid dreams.<br /><br />In sum, Metzinger deals with everything from mental representation, to content, qualia, subjectivity, intentionality, self, and does it in carefully ordered and convincing ways. Metzinger is a philosopher, and the theory is mostly philsophical. But few philsophers include such careful empirical and neurobiological observations. Few philosophers have such knowledge of the extensive literature. Few are as convinced of the central role that scientific objective theorethizing must play.<br /><br />I must repeat that it is in no way evident that consciousness is explained in Metzingers book. But if there is a book that will set the conceptual framework that leads to such an explanation, it is this one. It is virtually imposible to explain his ideas concisely, and to understand them one has to follow his discussion completely. Therefore, I can do not much but to recomend that anyone interested in consicousness read this book. The book is quite technical and it is fairly long, however I believe that this should not stop the lay reader. The book is in my opinion simply too important. I have reviewed close to 100 books now, most of them on consicousness. I have said on numerous times that such or such a book is a must read. This one is the one I think more closely matches that description.	2004-10-16
US	46120996	RZIET6QMXDLSJ	0262121972	712939979	Consciousness and Experience (MIT Press)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	very, very good.	I really regret having taken so long to get to read this book. It is surely one of the great contributons to the consicousness debate, although it may not have been as influential as Lycans previous book, Consicousness. There are some aspects of this book that really separate it from many others, but there are things that are to be expected in any philosophy book on consicousness as well. <br /> <br />One of the things in the first group of things I mentioned, is Lycans ability to clarify just exactly what is the problem. He manages to define 8 diferent concepts of consicousness, and over 14 problems concerning these concepts, in just the first chapter. This is no easy task on its own, but it is also a very important one. Although by realizing all these concepts and problems may be players in the study of consicousness, one realizes that many authors have been talking about different things all along, it also makes things easy for the reader, because one is certain of what exactly Lycan will be talking about. This is not to say that his discussions concern just one or another of these concepts. He actually goes trhough quite a number of them. <br /> <br />Now Lycans position is clear. He is a representationalist, and his thesis, wich he defends along the whole book, is that all consicous states are exhausted by their representational properties plus the functional organization of the system. The view itself is not completely new. Many others are representationalists (notably Dretske and Tye). But the fine points, the details, are different. And it is because of these differences that one can see the strenghts of Lycans position. <br /> <br />Lycan then, in this book, aims to explain his ideas on consicousness and qualia. These are not equivalent, Lycan argues. Consciousness is one thing, and qualia are other things, so to say that one is consicous of a certain qualia is not at all tautological. To Lycan qualia are first-order properties of intentional represented objects. Consicousness is the internal monitoring of these first order states. Much of the arguing begins here. Is this not just another higher order thought theory? No, becuase it is not a thought, but a monitoring, where Lycan hold this to be somewhat perceptionlike, but not quite. Is it not that leading to infinite regress? no, because, the monitoring does not have qualia, qualia qre one thing, consicousness is another. So there is no need for another monitoring to monitor the second other monitoring to make IT have qualia consicousness. This is, however, probably subject of the above mentioned previous book. <br /> <br />So in this book Lycan sets to defend his theory against 4 objections dues to differetn philosophers. Here Lycan shows his ability as a philosopher, and argues for his position adequately. The first objection is of course that of fallibility. Can the internal monitor fail? yes it can, says Lycan. So can there be unfelt pains (pains not monitored, or mismonitored)? yes. Is this sensible. Yes, argues Lycan. And he does this adequatley too. Lycan manages to make his position intellegible even when at first sight it seems that this might not be possible. This is what philosphers are supposed to do. <br /> <br />How about the classical problems. Levine answers Nagels famous bat example much the same way David Papineau has in his work: Knowing about consicous mental states in a creature will not recreate these states in us. He argues Levines explanatory gap and Jacksons knowledge argument are wrong because they both ignore modes of presentation. The explanatory gap is to be expected because the represetational functional role, and the extension of that representation can only ocurr in one person at the same time. Color blind Mary, on the other hand, does learn a new fact, but this fact is finely-grained by the mode of presentation it has. These discussions are on my opinion the books high points. Lycan finally answers all kinds of objections concerning qualia, nonrepresentational qualia, strange qualia, inversion thought experiments, etc. In every case Lycan suceeds in defending his position, and in defending representationalism itself against its oponents. <br /> <br />Lycan, in closing, has written an excellent book on the philosophy of consicousness. His position is very compelling, and his arguments all semm quite sound. But in these types of books one must be careful to to believe it all. Its philosophy were talking about, and complete agreement is impossible. The debates are certainly not over, and there are some parts in Lycans ideas that need a little bit of work. But these are bridging principle, and psychosemantic issues, which Lycan deliberately ignores. I recomend this book highly as yet another example that philosophers can make advancements in this difficult topic.	2004-10-07
US	46120996	R15DYEN6XPRC6R	0300102291	919356292	Wider than the Sky: The Phenomenal Gift of Consciousness	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	mixed reactions	This book is either unremarkable or remarkable, depending on wether you have read Edelmans previous work or not. It is unremarkable to those familiar with Edelmans work because this is nothing more than a short and very simple summary of the theories explained more throughly in his earlier books. It is quite remarkable in that Edelman manages to condense all of his ideas (spanning the neural darwinism trilogy, Bright air, Brilliant Fire, and the superb A Universe of Consicousness) in 120 or so pages. For those who simply do not have the time to work over those other books, this is a grat option, not to mention for the lay reader, and those unfamiliar with neuroscience or philosophy. However, the ideas in question all manage to be more appealing and convincing when read in these other books. I do recomend this book strongly.    Now, inasmuch as this book is just a compendium of Edelmans theories, I will not comment on them, since I did that on reviews of his older books. The theory of neuronal group selection (Darwinian processes in neuronal plasticity), and his theory of consicousness (the remembered present and the dynamic core) are important players in the consciousness debate, without a doubt.     But Edelman also tries to do some philosophizing. This is something scientists studying consciousness tend to do often on their newer books. And it is also the part of these books that open new points for discussion in the consciousness literature. And Nobel prize or not, he does not do it well. Let me explain.    Edelman tries to advance a bridging principle to his neuronal theory of consicousness. That is, he tries to explain the precise relationship of neural states (N) to consicous states (C). And unfortunately it all amounts to a very Searleian property dualism. N entails C, but it is not identical to it, and further, C is and cannot be causal, while N can. Edelman is right in that this is a closed version of materialism. No non-physical properties are claimed to exist. But the relationship is still probematical.     First, there is the very real threat of epiphenomenalism. Edelman denies this, but he is after all claiming that C states are actually epiphenomenal, by his definition. N is not, but C is not identical to N, but entailed by it. Now if liquidity is entailed by the structure of H2O for example, and it is, then it makes sense to say that liquidity itself may have a property that water does not. Liquidity may be uncausal, while water can be causal. But this claim is nonetheless false. Liquidity is causal. It makes water behave in certain ways. So, even if we grant, that if C is entailed by N, means that N can have properties that C does not, this does not guide us to claim which properties these are. That is, Edelman needs other reasons to convince us that C is not causal just because it is entailed by N, that is actually causal. C could be like liquidity. C could be causal, and entailed by N too. N could occur without it causing something that C would cause if it was present, even if C could not be present without N, which is my reading of the use of entail. So nothing edelman says has a bearing on the causal status of C.    Edelman sort-of anticipates these arguments, but only claims that the ideas C can occur without N , C is causal , are contradictory. Thay are, only if one takes as undeniable his definitions of entail, and his ideas of the relationship of C and N. Edelman assumes he is right to prove he is right. The epiphenomenalist considerations I wrote of, are a little shaky, however. But Edelmans position falls fast when other more mysterian arguments are noted. If C is only entailed by N, but not identical to it, then it is very much logically posible that N could exist without C, and everything in the neural economy be identical. Edelman argues against this possibility, a posteriori, by pointing out that evolution made the relationship between C and N necessary. So his idea is that because N and Cevolved, yhey are so related, not that because they are so related, they could have evolved. This is again assuming he is right to show he is right.    One could continue endessly. What makes some N entail some C and not another? If N entails C, would a minimally and disembodied N still entail a full C? If C can be caused, why can it not cause back? Any philosoher could come up with his own objection. So in conclussion, Edelman is on the right track, but as lost as many a scientist as to how to intellegebly bridge the neural states to the conscious states. Maybe philosophers will be essential to the search for the neural bases of consicousness after all.	2004-10-02
US	46120996	R2WFFOZC3Q5M7I	0974707708	912611423	The Quest for Consciousness: A Neurobiological Approach	Books	4	55	65	N	Y	Good	For the last couple of years, few sicentific progress seems to have been made in the study of consicousness. Philosophical books do not claim to make much progress. I mean, philosophers have been debating over things like representationalism for over 20 years now. But science is supposed to be different. But as hard as I look, most recent books are nothing but reviews of the literature of the last decade and popular sicence, simplified for the lay reader, that seems to make no progress.  <br /> <br />This book is not that different. Koch is one of the pioneers in the field, along with the late Francis Crick. It seems the quarrell between the nobelists Crick and Edelman is over, as can be seen in chapter 19 of this book, since mostly their theories agree on the important points. THAT is progress enough. <br /> <br />The bulk of the book is not about the neural correlates of consicousness at all, but about visual neuroscience, and the relationship between cosnciousness and memory and attention. All these chapters offer few truly novel insights, but are not to be skipped by the begginer. The ideas of neural assemblies and competition of neuronal coalitions have been around a while (Susan Greenfields work, and Taylor's Race for Consicousness), but it certainly is exiting to see the breaktrhoughs made with studies on binocular rivalry. Now it is hard to see how useful the unconscious homunculus can be as a theorethical tool. I read it on a joint paper Koch wrote with Crick in a collection edited by Metzinger, I did not get it then and I do not get it now. As I understand it, Koch just talks about a central executive in the frontal cortex, an idea not new nor very groundbreaking. Koch's idea on the necessity for involvent of frontal cortex (through intersignaling with posterior areas) in the NCC is confusing. Maybe differetn types of consciousness could clarify the concept. Sensory consciousness seems to only depend on posterior regions, while working-memory-type consicousness seems to need the frontal areas. It seems clear, considering Koch's ideas on qualia, that he means something like this. <br /> <br />There are some very important contributions, however. Chapter 6 almost resolves the debate on wether V1 is consicous (it is not), and as Koch points out, this is a positive thing, sicne it shows that cortical areas can be analyzed separatedly, and explaining their contribution to consicousness is possible. It would be magnificent if we could further reduce the candidate cortical areas further, if only slowly. I am skeptic of Koch's ideas that maybe different types of neurons can be so characterized. What if we found allegedly \\"conscious\\" neurons in V1? It seems to me more plausible that the role a neuron plays in context to the region it is in is far more important than ther cell type instead. Of course, Im speculating here. <br /> <br />But speculation is something Koch does quite well. However, as it is custom, scientists speculate on philosophical issues in their science books, and I like to wonder what philosophers would have to say about that. Lets see. Koch mantains that the function of consciousness is to summarize the present state of the world to the organism, so that it can plan accordingly. This is a very good function, but by no means a novel hypothesis. Cambell, i his book reference and consicousness, mantains that consicousness determines the reference of a demonstrative and therefore justifies the cognitive processing (planning) of the object refered too. Cambell is a philospher and argues for this point forcibly. So here Koch could be on the right track. What about qualia? <br /> <br />Qualia, Koch argues, are symbols, mental shorthand, for the vast content of those mental states. Qualia, then, are the way it feels to represent the content (Koch talks of meaning, which by his use is familiar to intentionality) of those states. In essence, Koch is saying (Im interpreting here, i COULD be doing itt wrong) that qualia are representational, and that it is vy virtue of that fact that they have a function. Now this is a thesis with a lot of philosophical baggage, but that I think is highly plausible. Koch mantains that the content of a quale is determined by the context (penumbra) in where the quale lies, This certainly seems right. The neural correlates of a quale would appear in the context of surrounding neural activity, and the interconnection between these systems would link qualia to its content (meaning). All of this, however, sidesteps the issue of in virtue of what properies does the penumbra, or the quale for that matter, represent anything at all. This is not the same as asking why qualia feel like anything at all, question that neither I nor Koch can answer. So although Koch's speculations are interesting, they fail to really explain anything at all, unless he gives us bridging principles. He tries, when he writes about how meaning arose out of sensimotor interactions, intermodality connections, or genetical predispositions. However, the details have to be inferred by the reader. <br /> <br />Koch is also highly simplistic in his dealing of split-brain studies. It is by no means obvious that splitting the brain means splitting conscousness. There is a whole book dealing with this issue (Alexanders tHE Unity of consicousness), and there are some good arguments that Koch ignores. (not to be blamed for he is a scientist.....he did start the speculation game, though) <br /> <br />So this book is a good review of the field, presents some novel ideas and interesting speculations. It is recomendable for novel readers, and a must have for cosnciousness fans. But I still wait for a landmark book, the Astonishing Hypothesis of the new decade. Koch is a wonderful writer and a brilliant scientist, and I do not doubt he will someday deliver.	2004-09-21
US	46120996	R1ALWM20CLCZJF	0199243824	289829939	Thinking about Consciousness (Oxford Readings in Philosophy (Hardcover))	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Great philosophy	It has been a while, but this book has made the wait worthwhile. Finally, a book on the philosophy of consciousness that makes sense, that is clear, direct, uncomplicated, original, profound, and has the potential to stir and resolve many debates.<br />Papineau argues for materialism. Not many take the time to do that, nowdays. But it is true many people are still dualists, and those who are materialists do not know how to really defend their views. Other materialists are still thinking on dualist ways, and others cannot decide between token or type identities, fuctionalism, representioalist, HOT, materialist theories. Papineau sticks with token identity. This is the simplest and most plausible view. PHENOMENAL PROPERTIES ARE IDENTICAL TO MATERIAL PROPERTIES. end of story. Papineau has here avoided a lot of baggage. The argument? the same anti-epiphenomenalists have been making. All physical causes are caused by physical things. Phenomenal states have causes, and are caused. Therefore, phenomenal states are material things. (This is not exactly how papienau puts it, but its good enough for me).<br />Papineau does go throught the usual job of demolishing the knowledge argument, the zombie argument, and the explanatory gap argument. NOthing very new here. Mary learns something new not because phenomenal states are nonphysical but because you cannot cause a brain state to appear (which is identical to the phenomenal state) by simply knowing things. You have to experience them. Kripke was wrong, because although identities are necesary, this does not mean that by knowing one side of the identity you will know all there is to know about the property in question. Conceivability does not entail possibility, because there exist counter-examples, in the theory of names. You can conceive of impossible things if your concepts are different. And Papienau argues for conceptual dualism. Phenomenal concepts are different from material concepts, even if they refer to a single material property. Phenomenal concepts, however, refer directly to those properties.<br />Another novelty is that the book is actually about how we THINK about consciousness, and not consicousness itself. So, Papineau tells us how exactly to understand phenomenal concepts. Here I have some objections. What is the difference between phenomenal concepts and the states they refer to? Papineau first takes conclusions about one thing to argue about the other, but on other occasions seems to claim arguments do not apply to both the concept and the state. It seems strange to say that because concepts are indeterminate, then the states refered to will also be indeterminate. Papienau needs to be careful to distinguish when he is arguing about the concepts ore the states refered to, but other than that, the way he constructed phenomenal concepts seems to me to be a right way to argue for a theory of phenomenal consciousness.<br />Ppaineau strikes on the central problem in consicousness studies: why does materialism seem to leave something out? why is there a hard problem of consicousness, but not a hard problem of heat, or energy or water? why is matter correlated with feelings at all? Simple, says Papineau. Because intuitions are the greatest barriers that oppose philosophical advance. And people simply have the intuition that matter is simply not all there is to consciousness. Materialism seems to leave somehting out, like the explanatory-gap theorists claim. Ppaineau does not show them wrong, but shows them 2 ways one can get rid of the intuition that mind and brain are separate. First, identities need no explanation. Mind and brain are identical to one another, and it is not necesary to explain why this is so. And second, the intuition is fueled by a fallacy. The fallacy of concluding that mind and brain are separate, just because when you think of consicousness it feels one way, and when you think of matter it feels another way. Thinking of qualia brings the qualia to mind, but thinking of gray neurons does not, so one must conclude they are not identical. But this is a fallacy, the antipathetic-fallacy. Thinking of something does not have to make that thing happen. Just like in the response to the knowledge argument.<br />Papineau argues also that scientific studies of consicousness are doomed to failure, becuase the properties of phenomenal concepts makes it indeterminate to decide of wether a creature is conscious, or of wether it is the function or the matter composing the system that is identical to the phenomenal state. Here I think Papineau goes too far. His points are that since verbal reports are the primary evidence for consciousness research, and becuase we cannot decide between exactly what level of explanation is right (atoms, molecules, chemicals, neurons, electricity?), and because pehnomenal concepts are vauge, then sicence is in trouble. But this is not a principled matter. All you have to do is find a non-verbal way to reach criterions of consicousness, and indeed researchers are looking for those methodologies. And I believe it is in principle possible to decide between levels of explanation. For example, you could decide, in principle, wether it is the matter a brain is composed of or the way it is organized that is identical to a phenomenal state like this: take a subject, replace all his neurotransmitters for agonists witht he same proportions, and ask him to make a discrimination (between color plates of gradual hue changes, or memory of a color). Next, restore the subjects brain to normallity, and ask him to make another discrimination. If the discriminations are identical, then it is the orgainization, and not the matter itself (for a chemical is not materially identical, but functional identical to its agonist), that is the material property identical to the phenomenal property.<br />Or why not simply change the phenomenal concepts? Then the empirical research of the material basis of consicousness would continue problem-free. Amazingly thought-provoking book, inspite of my objections. Required reading.but thinking of gray neurons does not, so one must conclude they are not identical. But this is a fallacy, the antipathetic-fallacy. Thinking of something does not have to make that thing happen. Just like in the response to the knowledge argument.<br />Papineau argues also that scientific studies of consicousness are doomed to failure, becuase the properties of phenomenal concepts makes it indeterminate to decide of wether a creature is conscious, or of wether it is the function or the matter composing the system that is identical to the phenomenal state. Here I think Papineau goes too far. His points are that since verbal reports are the primary evidence for consciousness research, and becuase we cannot decide between exactly what level of explanation is right (atoms, molecules, chemicals, neurons, electricity?), and because pehnomenal concepts are vauge, then sicence is in trouble. But this is not a principled matter. All you have to do is find a non-verbal way to reach criterions of consicousness, and indeed researchers are looking for those methodologies. And I believe it is in principle possible to decide between levels of explanation. For example, you could decide, in principle, wether it is the matter a brain is composed of or the way it is organized that is identical to a phenomenal state like this: take a subject, replace all his neurotransmitters for agonists witht he same proportions, and ask him to make a discrimination (between color plates of gradual hue changes, or memory of a color). Next, restore the subjects brain to normallity, and ask him to make another discrimination. If the discriminations are identical, then it is the orgainization, and not the matter itself (for a chemical is not materially identical, but functional identical to its agonist), that is the material property identical to the phenomenal property. <br />Or why not simply change the phenomenal concepts? Then the empirical research of the material basis of consicousness would continue problem-free. Amazingly thought-provoking book, inspite of my objections. Required reading.	2004-03-28
US	46120996	R1JUP9GNQ8O88M	1576077918	173205906	Consciousness: A Guide to the Debates (Controversies in Science)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good	This is a little and very readable book. It is a good introduction to some of the issues in the field of consciousness studies. Freeman is an editor of the journal of consciousness studies and is quite informed on recent ideas put out on consicousness. As is usual for some authors, he is not particularily a good expositor of the philosophical ideas, but manages to give a nice overview of the central players, like Chalmers, Searle or Dennett.The chapters on the neuroscience of consicousness could have been a little bit more complete, although he does give space to the ideas of LLinas and Cotterill, two authors whith very important contributions that are often forgotten in other introductory books. At times, Freeman got out of track. For example, one chapter is devoted to learning and memory, but learning and memory only, and does not touch on their relations to consciousness, and seems out of sinc with the rest of the book. He writes a chapter on the physics side of the debate, with not many things new, apart from Penrose and Bohm. <BR>     Some ggod points are made, to be sure, but the book cannot be said to be above many other good introductions to the subject. Other volumes could possibly be better than this book, although it would serve well as a very light introduction to the field. The price of the book, however, seems a little high for a 300 page book. All in all, I do recomend this book but do not find it indispensable reading.	2004-03-06
US	46120996	R2QT95F8NXIWTJ	019515343X	355852601	Consciousness: An Introduction	Books	4	23	30	N	N	Very good	Blackmore wrote a very important book, because it is the first \\"true\\" textbook on the subject. There are other texts, like Wallace's consciounsness and behaviour, and other collections, like Block et. al.s nature of consciousness, or Carters consciousness, but these could be described or used as textbooks without being textbooks per se. That is, Blackmore's book has the exercises, review questions, profiles of some important figures, that make it a real textbook. However, I am impressed more by the scope of the book. There are many different chapters on many differetn things, and the author does not forget about issues like parapsychology (Blackmore was once a psi researcher), time, animal consicousness, all issues that many other authors seem to leave aside.<BR>     The book itself is very readable, and the strenghts,like the number of different chapters, come with weaknesses, like too brief discussions of certain very important, or central, themes. Blackmoere does succeed in giving a sense of the perplexities of studying consicousness to the reader. She is also a very apt philosopher, and explains philosophical ideas much more clearly that other non-philosophers do. She is also very common-sensical and does not fall for many of the traps laid on the field of consicousness studies, save, of-course, only one. The \\"illusion\\" trap. Let me explain.<BR>     Everey time the discussion is about to climax, and the reader expects an insight, or maybe a conclusion, Blackmore seems to state that everything may just be an illusion. Visual perception? an illusion. Free will? an illusion. Binding? an illusion. qualia? an illusion. Now I do not believe that illusions do not exist, or that they cannot serve an explanatory role. Certainly, visual perception and free will might be illusions. Attentional blindeness studies, and Wegners or LIbets work suggest these possibilities. But why should perceptual binding be an illusion? it is a fairly simple conceptual question, it is empirical and many empirical studies, like the synchrony or attention- models, seem to offer not so mysterian answers. The thing is, I believe, that Blackmore got caught in the intuition pumps created by none other than Daniel Dennett, the philosopher who by the way is most quoted, discussed and brought to bear on every question posed in the book.<BR>     Blackmore seems to believe not only that there is no cartesian theather, a place where all consicousness comes together, (which is right), but that it is impossible that consicousness could be located anywhere at all. If this is so, she is wrong. Consciousness is in the brain. How, why, at what time, we still do not know. But if we can locate consicousness in a brain, why not several brain areas? we can just discard those that seem not essential for consciousness, in lesion experiments, for exapmple. Why not just couple of brain areas? now, it may not be that simple, maybe consicousness does not reside or happen at a time, maybe its just identical with those brain a reas. Why the big fuss about consicousness and everything about it as an illusion? Because Dennett is probably the most convincing philosopher, and Blackmore was convinced.<BR>     How about qualia. An illusion, Blackmore tells us. It only seems there are qualia, but there are not. The thing is, qualia ARE that seeming, and it is that seeming that needs explaining. Qualia are real, and that anything seems like anything at all is a proof of their existence. What exactly they are, I do not know. But they are not just illusions. AS if their being so would solve anything anyway.<BR>     Blackmore also got too carried daway with drawing lines. Either you are a physicalist, a functionalist, or a dualist. She also knows how to determine that. Either you believe in zombies, or not. This is by far the most simplistic analysis of the philosophical quarrels I have read lately. This is not to say she does not make some important points, however. Philosophers, nevertheless, would have a field trip in reviewing this book. Scientists woould be angered by her mysterianism and pessimism. Maybe this makes this book perfect for non-specialists.<BR>     This is all too negative. The book is very, very good and complete. It covers many, many important issues. It has an extensive bibliography, although extensive is not enough with such a complicatted subject. It is trully the first textbook, and is very accesible. For the same reason, it ends up being quite superficial at times. It is all good for the undergraduate taking a course, but the really interested reader should only see this book as a good place to start. Those familiar with the field could do without reading it, but they should anyway. Blackmore does deserve her name among those considered experts on the field.	2004-03-06
US	46120996	R1KXN1DDE57S7W	006001279X	790082483	The Face in the Mirror: The Search for the Origins of Consciousness	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Good, but limited	This is a good book, a good read and interesting too. One gets a little of anthropology, and a little of functional brain imaging. All of it, of course, involving self-awareness. Keenan mantains that to be self-consicous one must pass the mirror test-in short- to be able to recognize the image in a mirror as yourself and not as another individual. Most higher apes, it turns out pass the test. Children at about the age of 2 or 3 do too. Some autistic children do not, and autism is sometimes refered to as a problem with theory of mind or self-awareness. It seems then that self-consciousness is something some systems have and others do not. Keenan then reviews the literature on the functional imaging of several interesting tasks that seem to require self-awareness, and concludes that the right cerebral lobe is involved, possibly with the cingulate and prefrontal cortex more centrally related. So far so good.<br />But for Keenan to have entered into such an interdiciplinary debate, he seem to have forgotten that philosophically, his ideas would at most rest on shaky grounds. Let me elaborate. First, he seems to equate self-consicousness with self-recognition. Now the first thing I would ask is if self-recognition is sufficient for self-awareness}. That is, would a computer programmed to respond to internal signals in an appropiate way be self-awarë? I would say not. But Keenan tries to avoid these objections by holding that self-recognition is an ability one gains by vitrtue of being self-aware. (since self-recognition appears to be correlated with other self related cogniitve abilities). But then Keenan wrote a book about an ability one gains after being self-aware, not a book on self-awareness. Writing a book about visual discrimination is not the same as writinga book about vision, even when I can only discriminate between 2 visual stimuli if I can see in the first place. It is obvious that one can still see, but not discriminate between two stimuli (think of prosopagnosia- loss of face-recognition), and it is equally plausible that one can not recognize himself in a mirror but still be self-aware. This example is interesting, because Keenan would claim that there is a difference between not recognizing yourself because you are not self-aware that because you have a visual impairment. But the point is that although correlated-that is- self-awareness usually comes with self-recognition, it is only that, a correlation. It is then unclear why the mirror test should be so special. It may have positives, but I imagine it has many false negatives.<br />This can be applied to the neuroscience too: maybe the abilities that one gains by virtue of being self-aware are located on the right hemisphere, but this does not mean it is the location of self-consicousness too. Language is located on the left hemisphere, but the cognitive resources (whatever they are; conceptual information, grammar, memory, mental relations, ideas)and the anatomical resources (mouth, tounge, lips) do not have to be located there too. Of course Keenan simply argues that the right might be dominant for self-awareness, but not the only location of a self-awareness module. In that case, self-awareness seems to be a much more suubtle phenomenon that just the collection of all the self-related abilities.<br />Now it seems to me that Keenan missed the point from the beggining. He tries to separate self-awareness from awareness itself, when it is not clear this can be done. Maybe self-awareness is just regular awareness but with a self-content, instead of a visual-content or a object-content. In that case, what Keenan theorizes about are the properties, cerebral correlates, and species variations of self-contents, but not of self-awareness itself, just like vison research studies the location of object representations in the brain and not the awareness of objects itself. (For an alternative, check out Thomas Metzingers book, The self-model theory of subjectivity, wherein order to write about the self, he first wrote 350 pages on a theory of what makes representations consicous. Now that is an investigation of self-AWARENESS) <br />Keenans speculations on the functions of self-awareness are quite interesting and plausible. In my opinion,at the end he only succeeds in studying cognitive self-processing, but not self-awareness itself. However meanly I reviewed his book, it still seems to me a good read, a good adition into a neuroscientists library, and a thought inspiring discussion of soome very interesting concepts.	2004-02-10
US	46120996	RBUXEXULOMU2V	0262523027	219615714	Essential Sources in the Scientific Study of Consciousness (MIT Press)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	it is finally here	What can somebody who is a science of consicousness freak say about a 1000 pages book about the psychological, cognitive, theorethical, neurological, and historical bases of consciousness? ......well, maybe &quot;finally&quot;. This is THE definitive collection of papers on the science of consicousness, something that could only be said before about all three volumes of Towards a Science of Consicousness, edited by Hameroff.<br />Everything one needs to know to START an inquiry into this interesting field is here. Represented are those papers that started the whole cognitive revolution, all the way to the most recent theoretical investigations on consicousness. The only thing one who is familiar with the literature can disagree with is witht he inclusion and omission of certain key papers, but I am sure the editors had their hands full in making the books size acceptable and at the same time representative of the field. That said, it is impossible to ignore that Baars seems to have chosen some contributions on the basis of how much they are supportive of his global workspace model. I doubt this was made on purpose, however. Another objection could come from the absence of a neurochemistry of consicousness chapter, or a consicousness in quantum physics chapter. The former seems to me impardonable to have been left out, and the latter probably should have been there simply because of the popular attention paid to it, if not because of its shaky scientific foundations.<br />It is a custom of mine to declare a book on consicousness a must-have, but this one has the most merits to deserve such title. No one who has pronounced the word consicousness in a scientific context can do without this volume...it could also work quite well as a textbook for graduate level consicousness courses. One only hopes that many more editions are published, and that it can be someday extended to various volumes.	2003-10-25
US	46120996	R3RP7RM6IAFFT8	1551113511	804062062	Blindsight and the Nature of Consciousness	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Very, very good.	Holt is young and smart enough to try and fight everyone he can on their own terms, and his arguments run from brilliant, to simple, to downright strange. He takes on up almost everybody from Dennett, to Chalmers, to the churchlands, BLock, Nagel, Tye, functionalsim, non-reductive materialism, theory of knowledge, you name it....all in 130 pages and revolving arround a single phenomenon-BLindsight. What emerges is one of the freshest approaches to the philosophy of mind that I have read in a while...probably since Owen Flanagans Consicousness Reconsidered. Now it is a very different matter if Holt succedds in all his objectives, I doubt he does, but it is true he is bound to, or at least should, spark ardent debate.<br />Holt aims to discuss what the phenomenon of blindsight has to offer to philsophy of mind, and the theory of knowledge, concentrating mainly on consicousness. Thus, he starts with an introduction to blindisight and to other cases of dissociations between performance and consicousness. IN blindisghts, patients with damage to V1 and therefore corrtically blind, can still however detect stimuli in their blind fields, but in a special way. Without consicousness. That is, they deny seeing anything, but if prompted to guess wether the stimuli is there or not, or is an X or an O, can perform almost flawlessly. Holt defends the interpretation of the phenomenon that says that blindsight is vision without consciousness. This has straightforward implications: vision does not depend on consicousness (but does not mean consicousness is epiphenomenal-and he shows it), and, more importantly, means that consicousness is a real phenomenon, and a physical one at that. Why? well because what is missing is V1, AND V1 only, and that is strictly physical. And so Holt argues against eliminitavism and discusses the super-blindsight argument. He also shows how consicousness can be casual, or rather is casual, although is not specific on exactly where. He speculates on consicousness as an inhibitor of automatic actions, and has some support for this. It also makes sense. But all of this is just the start of HOlts attack on the entrenched positions of functionalism, dualism and non-reductive materialism.<br />Holt argues against the zombie argument, claiming the obvious in that conceibability is not a good guide to logical possibility. His points there are good, but when he goes against colourblind mary, things get tricky. Holt mantains Mary already knows what red is like but only gains the red-recognitional ability. This is counterintuitive, but worse, unecessary. Holt forgets that maybe mary does gain knowledge, but that it is of a kind that could not have been gained before, and therefore the arguments assumptions are wrong. Or simply that mary gains indexical knowledge, or access too old physical knowledge in a different way. His position seems to fall to knowledge that/knowledge how distinction, and this line of arguemtn is not as strong as it could be.<br />Holt also argues against Kripkes, and many a dualist arguments, for dualism. Here Holt shows how good a philosopher he really is. It simply does not work to use the analogy of water as h2o as illustrating anything about consicousness as a physical state. Our concepts are simply different, and changing them could make the latter identity necessary, or at least seemingly necessary, which is what Kripke argues for. Then comes Holts attack on non-reductive materialism. He shows how a token-type identity from consicous states to brain states is no problem for materialism, and further, how a token-token identity can be made to work. Simply by fine graining the types into tokesn will do, but Holt goes further. He also shows there are in fact purely phyisical, and commonly accepted physical, things that nevertheless have token-type relationships between their micro and macro-prperties.<br />Holt also discusses Chalmers Hard problem, and shows that it is misconceived. As with Kripke, concpetual nuances could be to blame, as well as an insurmountably high bar of explanation set by CHalmers. Does it make sense to ask why consicousness arises out of its correlates anyway? He even attempts to close the Gap, but here he seems speculative (admittedly so) ans seems a little lost. He tries to use the concept of perspectives to do such a thing, and out goes another brave and interesting attempt. But I think HOlt does good simply by showing there is not necessarilt a hard gap, and that HE cannot close it is not to be taken against him. IM sure Chalmers would have a thing or two to say here, but I believe Holt does defend his views adequately. Finally, Holt discussess blindsights implications for the theory of knowledge by considering wether patients from beliefs about their unconsicous discriminations, and argues for an externalist, or maybe a dual internalist sometimes externalist view on perception. He also discusses direct or indirect views of perception and goes for a dual viw as well. Here I think his arguments for a direct form of perception could be countered. <br />THis book should be read, and its originality serve as exapmle. The use of a clinical phenomenon to make so much philosophy is a brilliant move. Holt makes brilliant point after point, and one only hopes he writes a book on neglect, one on amnesia, one on whatever phenomenon he likes, as long as he makes it as valuable as this one. Essential reading for those interested on consicousness.	2003-05-24
US	46120996	RHT156MO6678T	0300092806	544062546	Consciousness: A Users Guide	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	Pretty good,	THis is a quite nice book, an introductory book, quite up to date and very refreshingly clinically oriented. Zeeman is a neurologist and he mostly stays in clear waters. His introduction is a quite interesting analysis of the definitions and concepts of consicousness, he traces uses and origins of the words themselves: consicousness, awareness, self-consicousness etc., are all discussed. THis is new, as only some philosophers had concerned themselves with these issues. Then comes the review of litterature, the core of the book. This is the most valuable part not because of its originality but because of the information within it. Zeeman explains the neural systems of wakefulness and alertness, that is, the acending reticular activating system, as well as the neuroelectrophysiology of the thalamocortical system. Zeeman gives historical points and is quite thurough. Right next he examines brain disturbances that alter this system: coma, seizures, vegetative states, etc..topping with what these contribute to the search for the former. He does the same with the neural system of vision, from retina to v1 and extrastriate cortices. He also examines disturbances of vision, achromatognosia, prosopagnosia, agnosia, blindness, blinsight. This method, of investigating the science of the phenomenon, and then the brain damage that alters it, gives a fuller view of the phenomenon and its neural basis, and Zeeman does a good job.<br />Up untill now everything is good and ready, only with the probable objection that consicousness is not ust wakefulness with sensory content, as Zeeman seems to mantain. But Zeeman also writes chapters on the evolution of consicousness, and seems to give a rather naive argument for why it must be casual. To be sure, if it evolves, it must not be epiphenomenal, but not much follows from this. He also fails to give an adequate story of how consicousness gradually appeared, but only claims it must have. His views on animal consicousness are sensical enough. His chapter on scientific theories of consicousness is quite weak, both becuase he only passingly explains the theories and because he seems to misundertstand some and give some poor objections. He discusess Edelman, Crick, Seki, Baars,Damasio,E.r jOhn, Llinas among a few others, and could have given much more detail. He readily falls to explanatory gap concerns, and cannott do a good critical or explanatory job. He does see through some basic agreements, like the idea of distribuited but integrated neural assemblies in the thalamocortical system. <br />His chapter on philosophy, freewill, and AI is also quite bad. He fails to really analyse the thought experiments, of colorblind mary, zombies, absent andf inverted qualia. Zeeman cannot see how Mary by gaining physical knowledge can come to have experience, because he seems not to be aware of the litterature that argues for such physical knowledge, like Van Gulicks or John Perrys work. HIs critiques of Dennett or Searle are not profound, but on the right track. He does however explain clearly (but not adequately) the views out there, like physicalism, functionalism, dualism, property dualism, etc. Zeeman is no philosopher and it shows. He ha slittle to say on machinec consicousness, only that its possible, and on free will, suprisingly ignores LIbets work, probably most relevant, and is quite straightforward. Although in principle actions are predictable because they are physical and caused, this does not at all mean we are not free. I think this is largely right, because even if in the same conditions we could not have acted differently, there is no reason why not in the same moment the conditions could have changed by virtue of our actions. This is a weak kind of freedom, but it is naturalistic and unproblematic.<br />Besides my negative comments, this book is in a short list of comprehensible and scientifically oriented introductions to consicousness, and is highly recomended for newcomers to the field. Zeeman does make some good points, but remains uncontroversial enough. Good book.	2003-05-20
US	46120996	R1ZZZZ4W4XGKUX	0262582201	982631775	The Dream Drugstore: Chemically Altered States of Consciousness	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Great	Hobson has written yet another very good book on the neurochemical mechanisms of conscious states. Certainly, there is not very much one has not read before on his books like Consciousness, Dream as Delirium or The Chemistry of Consicous States. But still, the book should be read because it cuts into some very deep issues regarding consicousness and neurochemistry, specially with regards to dreaming and sleep research. Now the thing is this book is supposed to be about the action of prescription and recreational drugs, but one gets Hobsons model of conscious states, and only then a little of how it explains the actions of those drugs. THis is not necessarily a bad thing, for models are good foundations for such explorations, but maybe a lot more space should have been given to drugs and their actions in the brain.<br />Hobsons well known model of conscious states, AIM, standing for activation (high-low), Input output grating (internal or external information sources) and modulation (aminergic or cholinergic) is presented in the book, and is supposed to do the lot of the explanatory work. The model is useful in this sense, but I have doubts about its power to actually explain what consicousness is. Activation seems to determine waking, not consciousness per se, Input determines content, not consicousness per se, and modulation seems to be in the level of processing mode, and not processing itself. IN other words, it is not clear to me neurochemistry is the right level where one can find really interesting causal links, like neural correlates of consciousness. But the reality is that the model is grounded on firm evidence and good science, and does explain many things ABOUT consicousness. It certainly adds important things to the debate.<br />Another very interesting issue Hobson takes on is on the inadequacy of psychotherapeutic frameworks, of how these are mostly incompatible with modern brain sicence. I must agree almost completely here with him. Hobson also mainlyconcentrates on  nonrephinephrine, serotonin and acetycholine as main players, the first two associated with waking and the last with dreaming. This move seems premature, for there are coutless of neurochemicals that may play also important roles. Nonetheless, these serve as the basis of his dream as delirium hypothesis: that psychosis is similar phenomenally and chemically with normal dreaming states, and thus involves alteration in the aminergic or cholinergic systems of the brain. Dreaming involves chcolinergic activity but in sleep. When such activity is present in waking, psychosis ensues. THis is one of the most plausible and defendable views on psychosis out there. By extension, drugs that cause psychosis, or aleviate it, must affect in some way the aminergic and cholinergic systems of the brain. In this way, Hobson explains the action of drugs, both recreational and clinical. (of course im simplifying. I omit the interactions of the other aspects of the AIM model, I and A. Dreaming and psychosis involve high activation and internal or hallucinatory imputs, for example). So in this ellegant framework Hobson frames the rest of his discussion.<br />Now if one thing can be said about the style of writing, usually good in HObsons books, is that there seems to be way too small a bibliography. For a book of such lenght and scope, one would expect extensive support in references and evidence coming from various diciplines and labs. In fact, Hobson lists about 10 references and onnly seems to present evidence either compatible with his views and coming from his own lab. This is to me a very bad thing for his book, otherwise a brilliant exposition of a promising thesis. The book is nevertheless a valuable addition to the consicousness litterature, and HObson is one of the main players in the game.	2003-04-23
US	46120996	R32ZCVDN7I0R55	0151005575	747134979	Looking for Spinoza: Joy, Sorrow, and the Feeling Brain	Books	4	52	57	N	Y	A great third book.	Damasio took on the interaction between emotions and reason, consicousness, and now, with this book, feelings. These are not unimportant, trivial or simple problems for a neurologist to tackle. They are among the greatest mysteries left in science. Now, do not take this to mean I think I agree wholly with Damasio, or that he has solved these puzzles completely. No. But he has made progress, and he has advanced some really intersting hypothesis. Damasio therefore is rightly considered one of the foremost theorethical neuroscienctists, and although seems sometimes to dismiss much of the literature and consider only evidence coming out of his lab, his ability to so easily transform his theories into highly readable popular accounts is scary.<br />Damasios main concern in this book is to present an neurobiological account of feelings. Now the first move he makes is to distinguish them from the related phenomenon of emotions. These are not to be confused, even when they are highly related. Felling, to Damasio, comes only after the emotion, and is very different from it. Emotions are complexes of chemical and neural patterns that drive the organism by automatical alterations of the state of the body, towards evolutionarily set places of well-being. Fellings are the perceptions of changes in, or the states of the body, and the modes of thinking that these ensue. To Damasio then, the feeling of fear would consist of the infromation provided by the body proper as well as of the way the cognitive mechanism functions because of the changes that are taking place. Since Damasio considers body regulating, homeostatic, and body sensing so important for feelings, he mantains the neurobiological underpinnings of feelings must be structures related to these functions. And he has evidence to support this claim. Imaging experiments show activity in the brain stem, hypothalamus,cingulate cortices and insula correlated with feelings. These structures have in common precicely their activity in regulating or obtaining information of the body. For theoretical reasons, Damasio holds the insula to be the main player here.<br />With these thoughts in mind, Damasio lists what he thinks are the necessary and sufficient conditions to have a feeling. THese are a nervous system with a body, a way for that nervous system to map and transform body states in neural maps, and then create  out of these mental patterns or images, consicousness, a way for the nervous system to change the state of the body. Dmasio then also discusees the probable functions of feelings, its evolutionary origins, and possible reasons why feelings feel the way they do. The first of these questions he anwers in his first book, Descartes error. The second, because emotions were there as were the neural patterns that mapped body state changes, as well because feelings promoted survival by their function. The third, why feelings feel the way they do, Damasio answers speculatively but very interestingly. The life process, its design in multicellular organisms, the way the life process is altered by changes in the body and thr innate reactions of the body,thenature of the nural medium where these structures are mapped, explain together why feeling feel the way thet do. Damasio also discusses how mental images might arise, speculates about the origins of a mental level of neurobiological phenomena, and discusses mind-body philosophical issues. Also, in between these issues, Damasio devotes roughly a third of the book to his interest on the life and philosophy of Spinoza, who Damasio reads as to have anticipated some of Damasios ideas on the body and the mind.<br />There remain some problems with Damasios account of course. For example, he seems to say a system that has the necessary and sufficient conditions for feelings but is not alive would not feel. His inclusion of consciousness as a necessary condition makes sense, but also obscures his explanation. Is consciousness itself explained? probably not in Damasios terms, but certainly not in the terms probably most relevant for feelings: qualia. What would life add to a system to make it feel,but qualia, that is, the essence (content?) of a feeling? But why would life bring qualia?if life is a physical process too, so qualia should be a physical process too, and therefore a physical system could have it too. But not necesarily an alive physical system. Damasio also never specifies what takes place between a neural pattern and a mental image for the latter to arise out of the former. This is the qualia problem again. So Damasio does not explain qualia? so what? nobody else has. But it is a reality that feelings will not be explained without a proper account of qualia. There is also the issue of predictions and testability. Will damage to the inusla cause loss of feeling? will a brain in a vat feel? Damasio also gives little space to neurochemistry, and it is obvious that it is a very important part of the making of feelings. How do serotonin, dopamine, acetycholine, and other neuromodulators affect feelings? directly, by changing neurons? Chemicals can alter feelings in predictable ways, so does the insula have special receptors, and if so what are their functions? If feelings require consicousness, and as some mantain, consicousness requires language, does feeling require language? how about the memories of feelings. Do memories of feelings activate the insula too, and if not, can feelings arise then out of association cortex (for memories of feelings bring a little of those feelings into the mind)? These questions are some philosophical and some empirical, but they all have somthing to say about feelings, and Damasio gives us no answers.<br />The book is a great acomplishment, and anybody interested with the hard problems of neuroscience, consciousness, emotions, the self, will want to read this book. Damasios views are predictable given his other two books, but they are original and very interesting. Few other neuroscientists are as thought provoking, or write as clearly as Damasio does.	2003-04-22
US	46120996	R3LKNCG6QPB1CU	0670030287	571028958	Synaptic Self: How Our Brains Become Who We Are	Books	4	142	158	N	N	Good pop neuroscience	This book is as good as a popular science book can be, and explains in easy terms some of the most important concepts in neuroscience. For this it should be widely read. However, Ledoux wants to explain the self, and not only to write a popular book on cognitive neuroscience. Now, given that it is very difficult not to accept that the self at some level is nothing but synapses, Ledoux does seem to base the self on neurobiological mechanisms. But this is no more enlightening than sayying that vision, attention, language, or even qualia are nothing but synapses, claims that at some level must also be correct. So one would expect the bulk of the book to develop principles that tie or at least correlate the self with brain mechanisms. Do we get this in Synaptic Self? well, yes and no.<BR>     <BR>Ledoux concentrates on memory, having in his last book focused on emotion. He explains memory systems from molecules to circuits, with the classical and most recent findings, including some from his own lab. He also gives a quick overview of the emotional systems of the brain, the working memory complex of the prefrontal cortex, and motivational systems of neuromodulator and brainstem and thalamocortical systems. He calls that the mental trilogy, namely cognition, emotion and motivation. Ledoux also wrote a nice chapter on some brain diseases that seem to alter these functions selectively. And thats it. Ledoux has explained the self. Or has he? Well, memory, emotion, cognition and motivation surely contribute to the making of the self, especially memory. How much of a self is left in a retrograde and anterograde severe amnesic? But this is not saying that putting them together is all the self is about. Its like saying vision, attention and waking are what consicousness is. Vision provides content, attention access, and waking a necesary condition for consicousness, but together they are not the phenomenon in question. I bring out consicousness because Ledoux says the really hard and important question in neuroscience is the self, and not consciousness. To me it seems almost silly to try to understand the former without the latter.<BR>      <BR>Ledoux then forgets about the feeling of the self itself, the possible bases of it on body schemas and body signals, the primacy of movement. He does touch on volition and free will, and is as naturalistic about these issues as one can be, which I think is a good thing. The final chapter presents 7 principles he can extract from his discussions, and meybe here we can find his theory of the self. Unfortunately, he seems just to add another thing, binding, to the picture. So binding, convergence zones, emotion and motivation, memory, placticity, hebbbian mechanisms of memory, together are the self. Again, I would say they are an important part of the self, but not the self itself. I may be wrong or maybe dogmatic about what would count as an explanation for the self. Maybe there is nothing more to the self than those mechanisms Ledoux lists. But work in theorethical neuroscience like by Damasio, or Patricia Churchland and philosophers like Bermudez show that the self is more complex than Ledoux seems to think.<BR>    <BR>At the end this book is of value, and I never said it did not make progress on the problem of the neurobiology of the self. However, it does not by any means solve it. It presents a nice theory of the integration of cognitive and affective mechanisms, and manages to cover a great deal of issues in simple terms, and that is always an achievement.	2003-04-22
US	46120996	R1V3Q9QWJUY1TQ	0262161990	760492744	Knowledge, Possibility, and Consciousness (Jean Nicod Lectures)	Books	5	16	20	N	Y	Good philosophy	Its good to see more and more books on the philosophy of consciousness are coming out, but even better when some of these actually make sense. In this last group I would place books by phiilosophers like the Churchlands, Owen Flanagan, Tye, Papineau, Metzinger, Robert Kirk,Fred Dretske and sometimes at least, Searle and Dennett. Now I would add Perry, for his no-nosense philosophy is a clear example of a defence of materialism that does not hide behind the trenches and waits for dualism to retreat, but actually demolishes their arguments while moving forward on the coherence of materialism itself. And so, in this book, Perry defends antecedent physicalism and takes on the zombie, knowledge and modal arguments, while in the process laying out a theory of mental content and epistemology that can account for some problems in materialistic theories, and can show why some arguments againt it are flawed.<br />In antecedent physicalism, qualia exist but are purely physical, and Perry tries to account for qualia in purely physical terms, at the level of diferent types of content and knowledge. This is the root then of his attacks on the zombie, knowledge and modal arguments. He first shows that these 3 influential arguments all rest on a fallacy that Perry calls the &quot;subject-matter assumption&quot;, the view that extra subject matter content has to be provided when the content is not fully determined by some knowledge. Perry shows that no extra subject matter is needed when the content can be fixed by reflexive content, which is a new way to access (gain knowledge of) the same subject matter content. Reflective content is sort of what idexicals do, and has certain truth conditions that are satisfied in specific situations. If I say, &quot;Perry is a philosopher&quot;, and Perry says &quot;Im a philosopher&quot;, the subject matter content is identical, that is, perry and that he is a philosopher, but when Perry says it, his statement has a reflexive content whose truthconditions are satisfied iff the speaker of the statement is in fact a philosopher. (this is a crude and simplistic and probably flawed interpretation of perry, but it will do).By making the distinction between contents, Perry goes on to show how the 3 arguments can be shown to not challenge physicalism.<br />Now it would be good to point out that Perry shows us only a way to defeat the arguments, for many ways can be found that do the same. For example, the knowledge argument (knowledge of the physical facts does not allow you to know what red looks like, so red qualia is not physical) can be put away by simply denying the premise, by saying that knowing is not the same as having, that qualia is knowing-how not knowing-that, that objectivity does not work the way the argument suposes, that knowing the physical facts of qualia and having qualia are different ways to access the same physical phenomenon, or that the knowledge gained is of a kind that does not present trouble for physicalism. Perry shows that this last argument works against all three arguments, and states the new kind of knowledge as the reflexive content as opposed the subject matter content of the knowledge in question.<br />So just because one knows all the physical facts, this does not mean one has all the physical contents, that is, refelxive content is missing, and such (physical) content is gained by having the qualia, and thus the argument fails. Perry similarily explains the apparent contingency of mind-brain identity, and using his knnowledge content analisis shows that the argument does not present problems for physicalism. The zombie argument (I can imagine a physically identical world without qualia, so qualia are nonphysical) is likewise flawed, but for many more resons. Perry shows that the zombie argument beggs the question in an important sense, and actually is an argument to differentiate between epiphenomenalists, fuctionalists, emergentists, dualists and physicalists, but does notshow that physicalism is false. If PHysicalism is right, then it is in fact not possible, logically or otherwise, that the world be physically identical but without qualia, which are physical as well. DEpendence on what can and cannott be imagined to draw metaphysical conclusions is quastionable at best.<br />Of course I have left many things out. Perry is quite thurough however in his points, and one should not judge his arguments by what I wrote here, or the reading I made of them. I think that the three arguments are flawed, even for reasons independent of Perrys points, and find this just another way of showing how bad the arguments are. But I still learned a lot on differeces in content, and found Perry's epistemology very interesting, and it looks like it could solve many hard problems for materialists. Ultimately the book is valuable because Perry shows materialists do not have to fall on emergentism or functionalism, but can remain identity theorists, while still holding a coherent and, well, the most plausible views, on the miind-body problem.	2003-04-01
US	46120996	R336VPN3MNQ3XY	0262181819	680729939	Cognitive Neuroscience (Studies in Cognition)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Practical book	There are certainly more recent and more comprehensive and complete collections of papers of cognitive neuroscience (notably The New Cognitive Neuroscience, by Gaazaniga), but I recomend this book for a couple of reasons; the chapter are really well written, with the exeption of attention and posibly development, all major issues are covered, there are chapters on cortical neural computation theory, which is a rare and often omited topic, and most importantly because this is a practical, 300+ pages book that one can actually carry appart from reading it as well, unlike other 1200 page monsters. Granted, if one must be thorough, this book will not be enough, but it would be a good choice for say those casually interested in the topic <BR>(but preferably last year undergraduate level readers), or philosophers who need the background, or psychologists. Great book.	2003-03-25
US	46120996	R3LF7CXVPUXZ9Z	026253200X	769157253	Brain-Wise: Studies in Neurophilosophy	Books	5	40	47	N	Y	Great	Well, it took more than a decade, but finally those interested in philosophy and neuroscience get an up to date version of Churchlands's NEUROPHILOSOPHY, the groud-breaking and field- creating textbook. Churchland, witht he clarity that characterizes her writings, and the no-nosense naturalistic viewpoint she takes, explains what neuroscience has to say about philosophical problems like consiousness, freewill, the self, theory of knowledge, religion (the fact that some of these problems in fact are now considered neuroscience problems, not philosophical ones, show that neurophilosophy as a field has been succesful, as has been Churchlands approach). But philosophy is still of value, only that its value only exists when it takes science seriously. Just as ancient philosophical problems like the origin of life, the nature of matter, space and time, have become the subjects of independent scientific fields of biology and physics, the mind, and its faculties, is being reduced to the field of neuroscience. There is no reason why this fact should be seen as unexpected or strange or weird. It is as obvious as it can be, and it has brought unprecedented understanding and predictive power, facts that render dualism and its branches an unecessary burden, and a potential setback towards understanding the mind.<br />The chapters are well written, clear and referenced superbly, with notes and suggested readings. The choice of topics is timely, and Churchland does a good job (although understandably she presents mostly theories in accord with her views and what she thinks is really important) of presenting the main theories and keeping them clear even when omitting certain technical details. The philosophical parts are also well argued for, and her position is defended well. I have allways thought the Churchlands to be the most seriously naturalistic and common sensical of all cognitive scientists. Although the chapters will not explain the self, learning, representationalism, oreven less, consicousness, they will point the reader towards what seem to be the right paths to be taken towards genuine understanding.<br />This book is simple and reader-friendly, the kind necessary to ilustrate the layman that there is little of philosophy worth arguing for left untouched by scientific advancements. Science is just philosophy that is understood,effective, that explains, and that makes genuine progress. We have a much more complete theory of the mind after 50 years of neuroscience research than we got in thousands of years of philosophical discourse. Neurophilosophy is the branch that aims to ground philosophy of mind in neuroscience research, and this books is the best introduction to it out there. Churchland has done it again, and although much work remains to be done, given that the mind is seen by some as the last standing mystery, the progress made for a moment brings back confidence in our ability to understand these issues...finally.<br />In sum, philosophers, cognitive scientists, neuroscientists, psychologists....anyone that uses the word mind, consicousness, self, thinking....should have this book, and pretty much every intelligent reader should too.	2003-03-23
US	46120996	R2K3QFRYF8HCIE	1403328870	794457654	Journey Into the Realm of Consciousness: How the Brain Produces the Mind	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	fine.	This is a fine but not in any sense grounbreaking book on consicousness and its neural basis. Neither the proposed mechanisms (although we must consider some of the ideas have been there since 1994) nor the philosophical position are new. Brooks, in short, solves the mind body problem by means of identity claims. That is, neuronal activity just is consicousness.Brooks then mantains that current imput combined with memory hierarchies, through a competition among neural imputs, is consicousness because of the identity claim, and that consicousness contents are formed by elemental &quot;consciousness cores&quot;, the single smaller units that are consicousness.<br />Now, the thing is, that identity between neuurons and consciousness must hold at some level, just as Brooks says, for materialism to hold. (I do not exclude some kinds of emergentisms, or consciousness field theories, wholly materialistic.) Consicousness and neurons are different ways of knowing the same phenomenon, one in the first and the other in the third person perspective, just as the heads and tails of a coin are different ways (depending on position and viewpoint, inferior and superior surfaces) of knowing the same phenomenon. But the explanatory Gap cannot rest that easily. This seems obvious from the fact that even materialists aknowledge a problem of consicousness. This is so because identity does not explain by virtue of what the phenomenon has the consicous properties it has (although arguably identity thesis require no explanation, see Papineau's work). A coin is the way it is because the way it is designed, but the neurons are consicousness because of what? This seems a nonsense question, but in fact, since some neuurons are consicous and others are not<BR>(those that without them someone is unconsicous), and a neuron in a dish is probably not consicous, and in deep sleep neurons are there but not consicousness, some group of sufficient and necessary neural conditions must hold for there to be consicousness. What these may be, Brooks does not tell us.<br />The closest he comes is in saying that memory must be involved. He even claims consicousness and memory might be in the same neurons. However, neuropsychology says otherwise. Totally amnesic patients can be nevertheless quite consicous. Philosophically, Brooks also shows his ignorance of the modern consicousness debate. Although not in principle bad, it seems strange to use as philosophical support Locke and Kant, dead for hundreds of years now. Brooks critique of representationalism as holding that some kind of picture must be in the head is badly mistaken. Modern representationalism avoids every problem BRooks points out it has.(see Tye's work) Some of his concepts seem strange (what is the evidence for consciousness cores?these just seem to be there to take on the explanatory burden), and for example, his taking of perception, sensation, meaning and consicousness to be the same thing, or that consicousness may be in nerve cells in the body, seems more problematic than helpful (not to mention very hard to argue in favour of).<br />Not everything is bad news for Brooks, however. His solution of the binding problem by means of &quot;synechdoches&quot;, (binding is an illusion that the brain creates after perceiving closely tied and temporally and spatially associated units in a scene or object) is quite interesting, and his all-the-way identity theorist postition is remarkably common sensical. There is no homonuculus, free will is an illusion, and the self is a certain content of consicousness. However, Brooks also explains why it seems there is free will, a self and a homonuculus, and this is also a nontrivial thing.<br />The truth is that this book is a good example of a theorist that takes indentity between neurons and consicousness seriously, but also that ignores a wide body of neurobiological, neuropsychological, cognitive, and philosophical evidence that could help him making his point clearer,and help him find flaws in his reasoning. That neurons at some level are consicousness cannot be genuinely doubted, but this in itself makes little progress towards understanding consiousness.	2003-03-18
US	46120996	R28WP5O7LCP8RU	0801872138	734658894	Cajal and Consciousness: Scientific Approaches to Consciousness on the Centennial of Ramón y Cajal's Textura	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	o.k	This is a fine and interesting collection, but as good as some contributions are, others are quite poor. The overview of neurosciences by Kandel is quite good, as are the papers on quantum consicousness by Penrose and Hameroff (although they do appear in every consicousness collection out there). Wolf Singer presents a strong approach to consicousness based on neuronal assemblies and synchronization. P.Stoerig presents THE review of the neuronal correlates of visual consicousness, using neuropsychology, single cell recording and imaging experiments to probe the contributions of visual cortex to phenomenal vision. The best paper in the book, i my opinion. Changeaux and DEhaene present their model for a neuronal global workspace, in my opinion one of the stronger consicousness models out there (see Dehaenes The congitive Neuroscience of Consicousness). Llinas presents his neuronal ocillation theory of thalamocortical interactions, and Arbib a very thought provoking approach to consicousness and language that uses as its starting point the action of mirror neurons.<br />Not all is solid in the contributions, as one can see from Edelmans re-printiong of a chapter of his 1992 book on consciousness. His more recent work is stronger. Other contributions add almost nothing to the debate, like 2 pagers by Jacob, Morowitz, and a very abstract paper on single celled organisms by Margulis. Gell-Mann offers interesting thoughts on emergence and makes a very good point and potential argument against quantum theories of consicousness like Hameroffs. IT simply points out that these depend on an interpretation of quantum mechanics thas is itself without proof.<br />Those interested on consciousness would be better off by reading this book, and those curious about neuroscience and Cajals work in general would too. However the collection lacks a little coherence in my opinion, as well as stronger and more original contributions.	2003-03-10
US	46120996	R2DMTSS7CUDNUT	158811340X	133186057	Neural Basis of Consciousness (Advances in Consciousness Research)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Pretty good.	This is a slightly above average collection on papers on the neural basis of consciousness. The paper by Baars is good as usual, and argues convincingly that working memory requires consicousness, and not the other way arround. This is easily accepted science prefrontal lesions rarely cause unconsicousness. Osakas paper is interesting, but seems to equate working memory with consicousness, a move that Baars shows is not quite solid. Libets paper is good, and his time-on theory, tha consicousness requires a minimum time of neural processing is strong in place, good evidence is shown for it. Libets attacks on other theories and his speculation of a consicous mental field is questionable, for reasons I need not go in detail here. Cotterill makes a sinthesis of his views on cognition, and how muscular activity is essential in understanding it. <br />Longothesis presents his elegant experiments on single cells recording and binocular rivalry. This is some of the strongest work being done on the neural basis of consicousness. Hardcastle also quite convincingly shows that attention and consicousness are not the same thing, although she allows they might be closely related. Baars shows that WM alone is not enough, and Hardcastle that attention alone is not enough. Maybe both together could be an important part of the story. The Churchlands, in the philosophical paper in the book, make sense as usual, and argue against those that say consciousness is unexplainable scientifically in principle. I think they are right, but misplace the problem of qualia. They point out that there are neuronal correlates of qualia, which is right, but the problem is what makes this correlates cause certain qualia and not others, or what is special about these processes that cause consicousness, for similar neuronal activity will not cause consicousness if other certain conditions cannot be met (alertness, attention, etc,). I however, am on the naturalist side and an optimist, and believe the qualia problem is not insurmoutable.<br />Finally, on a section on physics and consicousness, Eccles et.al argue for dualist quantum interactionism, a far-fetched quantum theory, too philosophically problematic in my opinion. Hameroff and Wolf, however, present the most plausible qauantum model of consicuousness out there. However, it still seems to me that panpsychism (which Hammeroff adopts), the foundations on a collapse interpretation of quantum physics, and the uses of an unknown gravity involvment, make this approach problematic, to say the least. Although his proposal is testable in a way, the explanatory power of his model depends on panspsychism, which is a philosophical move unwarranted for, that does not even require any quantum effects for it to work. Hameroff overestimates his models superiority over conventional neurobiological ones. Scott in the last chapter of the book actually gives soome good arguments, motivated by nonlinear system theory considerations, against the quantum physics relevance for consicousness.<br />This book then gives a proper overview on the neural basis of consicousness, but is not terribly complete or comprehensive. It should be a good and valuable but non-essential addition to a science of consicousness interested reader's collection.	2003-03-06
US	46120996	R3O3523GBU51A5	0393317544	268744162	The Symbolic Species: The Co-evolution of Language and the Brain	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Great	This is ambitious stuff. Deacon wants to explain the origins of language, underlying neural dynamics, explain symbolic reference and to show why Chomsky is wrong on his ideas on language. The result is a highly readable and complex text that somehow Deacon manages to maintain coherent. Many interesting ideas and insights can be found in the pages of this book. However it is not at all clear to me to what extent all of this is groundbreaking stuff. For example, darwinian processes in neural dynamics and development are not new ideas, as Deacon admits. Edelman, Calvin, Changeaux all got there first. The role Deacon gives to the prefrontal cortex is not new either. His explanation of symbolic reference as a collection of indexical and iconical relationships, and further symbo-symbolical higher orther relationships, is philosophically questionable to say the least. Why would symbolic abilities arise out of adding levels of non-symbolic relationships, in the way Deacon proposes?. Surely, symbolic abilities must depend on non symbolic mechanisms at some level, but it is not clear at which.<br />But Deacon also has moments of genius. His attack on Chomskian innate universal grammar frameworks is brilliant. Language evolved to adapt to the cognitive abilities of humans and therefore it seems it is learned too easilly. It is not that children have a grammar module, but that their general modules are enough when most of the adaptive work was done by language itself by evolving. Deacon also shows why grammars are not things that can become innate in the first place too. They cannot be invariant enough for selection to work on the brain to aquire them. Deacon also shows what did happen in the brain for there to be language. The relationship between brain-size and cognitive ability is more complex than we thought, and Deacon shows us why and how.<BR>Also quite good is Deacons explanation of why language evolved in the first place. It evolved as a means to deal witht he changingsocial and sexual organization of hominid groups, that started to form pair-bonding while being foragers. Language acted as the glue that kept these dynamics stable.<br />This is very good stuff, and it is bold and plausible. Deacon did not solve the mystery of intentionality or language, but his insights might show the way towards doing exactly this. There are few other books on language and the brain as thought provoking as this one.	2003-02-21
US	46120996	R1ZJTJO85PAC54	0262024934	628333123	Visual Attention and Cortical Circuits (MIT Press)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	great colection	Attention is a hot topic in the cognitive neurosciences, and although there are many other much more comprehensive collections (The Attentive Brain), this book adequately illustrates the level of specificity aquired in the field of the neural bases of attention. The topic concentrates on visual attention, for the now commonlly expressed reason that the primate visual sistem is the best understood neural sistem in perception. This makes the probing of attention easier, for its effects on the visual sistem can be generalized to the mechanisms of attention in general. <br />The articles are all good, and many general issues arise. Attention depends on distribuited neural sistems, it can exert strong effects on the firings of neurons in many levels of the proccesing hierarchy, attention both increases firing of attended stimulus responsive neurons and decreases activity of the surround, or unattended receptive fields. <BR>These general observations, among others, point towards where the researchers are starting to converge theoretically. Practically, however, one still finds the common inconsistencies. For example, in chapter 1 the author finds parietal activity in the selection of attention, but no frontal activity, while in chapter 4 the author finds frontal activity but no parietal activity. One could reconcile this observations by postulating that both parietal and frontal areas can select for attention (the view I prefer), but still these discrepancies say something about the field at large.<br />The papers deal with common issues from different prespectives, and use various methods. There are chapters on cognitive aspects, neural aspects, perceptual aspects, theorethical and even a computer neural network simulation. That one can find any agreement at all tells us that progress is being made.	2003-02-21
US	46120996	R21J7YK9DFO2G7	0674007964	244267069	Consciousness in Action	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Pretty good.	This is a good book on the philosophy of cognitive science. It does not tell us awfully much about consciousness, nor action for that matter, but does teach us that the relationship between perception and action is more complex, or simple, depending on how you look at it, than we thought before. Hurley wants to show that the classical imput-output picture in cognitive science is misguided. That is, in comes information, some processing, and out goes action, is not the right way to view cognition. Action and perception are interdependent, and instead of a input-cognition-output sandwich, theres a complex dynamic feedback system of relations between action and perception.<br />To make her point, she uses examples in neuropsychology which show how perception can be altered directly &quot;non-instrumentally&quot; by intentions, and vice-versa. perceptive invariants can also depend directly on differences in intentions, and so on. For example, when one has an intention to move his eyes to the side, but is completely paralized, the intention to do so changes perception, making it seem the world jumps towards the intended side of movement, irrespective of the constant input to the eye. This is of course a simplification, and Hurley shows many of these examples and succeeds, in my opinion, in showing that perception and action co-depend on each other (directly that is, not simply like action leading to new perception or perception leading to action, instrumentaly).<br />This aspect of Hurleys argument is clearer and more powerfull. Hurley also thinks this view on cognition can explain the unity of consicousness. But the strongly philosophical aspect of the book I thought was a little obscure. I agree with Hurleys distinctions between vehicles and  contents, with her denial of temporal atomism (the view that consicousness has clear temporal correlations with its cognitive substrate, what Dennett sees as the cartesian theather), and the denial of consicousness isomorphism with neural or cognitive structures. But all of this does not say much about what makes content consicous itself. She comes closest when she speculates there must be access to contents, a perspective (the complex feedback from perception and action) and life, for a content to be consicous. Although interesting, this seems a desperate speculation. What exactly would life add? This would solve most philosophical puzzles about consicousness, but at too hich a price.<br />Also, if her attacks on isomorphism are right, most of cognitive neuroscience on consicousness would seem to be fundamentally misguided. Most researchers list the properties of consicousness and then a neural structure that can accomodate those properties (unity-temporal binding, access-a global workspace, much information-complex neural assemblies, etc.), but these asume that the neural structure must resemble consicousness is a way for it to be able to support that aspect of it. But this is not, according to Hurley, a necessary relationship. That is, because consicousness is one, this does not mean its neural structure is one. If qualia is such and such, it does not mean its neural substrate must be such and such (see Joh Taylor, in his book, Race for consicousness).<br />Hurleys book then is a great contribution to cognitive science because if right, it would mean cognitive science itself must change drastically. Hurley also gives us brilliant insights on consicousness (especially on temporal atomism, self consicousness, and the unity of consicousness) but does not adress the other &quot;harder&quot; questions, like what makes a consicous content consicous. Action and perception are indeed seen to be interdependent, but this relationship has been underestimated. Seeing things as Hurley does could lead us to solve some major puzzle sin cognitive science. Some chapters are too heavily philosophical, however. Essential reading, in my opinion.h neural or cognitive structures. But all of this does not say much about what makes content consicous itself. She comes closest when she speculates there must be access to contents, a perspective (the complex feedback from perception and action) and life, for a content to be consicous. Although interesting, this seems a desperate speculation. What exactly would life add? This would solve most philosophical puzzles about consicousness, but at too hich a price.<br />Also, if her attacks on isomorphism are right, most of cognitive neuroscience on consicousness would seem to be fundamentally misguided. Most researchers list the properties of consicousness and then a neural structure that can accomodate those properties (unity-temporal binding, access-a global workspace, much information-complex neural assemblies, etc.), but these asume that the neural structure must resemble consicousness is a way for it to be able to support that aspect of it. But this is not, according to Hurley, a necessary relationship. That is, because consicousness is one, this does not mean its neural structure is one. If qualia is such and such, it does not mean its neural substrate must be such and such (see Joh Taylor, in his book, Race for consicousness).<br />Hurleys book then is a great contribution to cognitive science because if right, it would mean cognitive science itself must change drastically. Hurley also gives us brilliant insights on consicousness (especially on temporal atomism, self consicousness, and the unity of consicousness) but does not adress the other &quot;harder&quot; questions, like what makes a consicous content consicous. Action and perception are indeed seen to be interdependent, but this relationship has been underestimated. Seeing things as Hurley does could lead us to solve some major puzzle sin cognitive science. Some chapters are too heavily philosophical, however. Essential reading, in my opinion.	2003-02-17
US	46120996	RQIKHQGTW0ZC7	0805817336	616056427	Experienced Cognition	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Good, quite ambitious.	Carlson is a cognitive psychologist that seems just woke up one day, and said &quot;hey, why not wtite a book on consicousness?&quot;. The thing is he did a very good job. His cognitive theory of consicousness, conscious cognition, is quite ambitious. It uses the ecological approach to cognitive science by Gibson, the philosophy of intentioality, and the information processing approach to generate a theory, and then it applies it to many classical cognitvive domains, like working memory, perception, emotion, although it concentrates on goals and skills.<br />The book is technical at times, and seemed hard to read, although this is probably due to the fact that I know next to nothing of the cognitive psychology oof goal and skill aquisition, the issue carlson concentrates on. On the start, Carlson warns us he will not go into the congitive neuroscience of his model, and this is disapointing and unfortunate, as we will see. The philosophy in the book is also a little weak. The analisis on intentional structures, representations, and contents, all essential for Carlsons model, are modeled mostly after Searle's work. But Searle is by no means the only philosopher of intentionality or representationalism, and his work is neither fashionable nor undisputedly accepted as definitive. Carlosn therefore cannot and does not adress deep philosophical problems or possible objections to his analisis. Gibsons ecological theory, in contrast, has been gaining more and more support over the years, and along with embodied cognition, is quite fashionable among cognitive scientists nowdays. There's also Carlsons questionable theorethical commitments, like his seeming denial of the classicaly conceived congitive unconscious, his denial of consicousness as providing global access, his ambiguous position on the symbol-processing-sufficient-for consciousness debate, etc..<br />But even considering these comments, Carlsons cornerstone for his theory of consciousness, the cospecification hypothesis, has in my view much potential for advancing the cognitive understanding of consicousness. Consciousness in this hypothesis is roughly :an informational array that cospecifies the self and the object, that is being constantly resampled and explored, so as to distinguish the object and self-specific information, where this last process of egolocation serves to guide cognitive activity. This seems quite abstract, but in the book quite well explained by Carlson. With this hypothesis in place, Carlson sets out to show how consicousness might fit into cognitive theory. And he succeds, as long as one considers his theory as only coherent. Wether one agrees with the hypothesis, and with his intentionality analisis, is another thing. That is, why would cospecifiyng the slef and the object in an informational array make  a system conscious? One can easily envision a computer that has a monitoring system and a sensor, a place where that information is put together and then a second order monitor that resamples that information to guide response, without it ever being consicous of anything (yes this is an old philosophical trick in consicousnesss studies). But when one has to thought experiment like this, one knows it is a desperate objection. Thus, Carlsons theory is very interestingly plausible.<br />As an interesting observation, if only Carlson would have speculated on the neurobiological interpretation of his cospecification hypothesis, he might have anticipated completely Antonio Damasios theory of consciousness. In Damasios theory consicousness is considered as the interplay between the organism (self), the object and their relationship. Consicousness is knowledge that the organism is involved in relating to an object (exploration, resampling), and that the object is causing change in the organism (egolocation) . So the brain maps the organism (self-information) the object (object-information) and their relationship, then forms meomories of obejts and finally holds active simultaniously all this information (cospecification in an informational array). In the chapter on emotion, Carlson quote Damasio a lot, and proposes that homeostatic and proprioceptive information might serve as the self-part information in egolocative processing, a very similar claim to Damasions creation  of the proto-self and its role in consicousness. Damasio, on his book on consicousness, does not quote or cite as reference Carlsons work.<br />This book is innovative because while AI researchers, Physicists, philosophers and neuroscientists probe consciousness in popular books, cognitive psychologists stay in the laboratory and their journals. This is a very interesting and ambitious approach, but it is the kind needed to make genuine advances in the field. No one will agree on everything written here, but no one should doubt its important contribution either.ds active simultaniously all this information (cospecification in an informational array). In the chapter on emotion, Carlson quote Damasio a lot, and proposes that homeostatic and proprioceptive information might serve as the self-part information in egolocative processing, a very similar claim to Damasions creation  of the proto-self and its role in consicousness. Damasio, on his book on consicousness, does not quote or cite as reference Carlsons work.<br />This book is innovative because while AI researchers, Physicists, philosophers and neuroscientists probe consciousness in popular books, cognitive psychologists stay in the laboratory and their journals. This is a very interesting and ambitious approach, but it is the kind needed to make genuine advances in the field. No one will agree on everything written here, but no one should doubt its important contribution either.	2003-02-10
US	46120996	R1LXDIAKOCJIRS	0500050813	575332005	The Prehistory of the Mind: The Cognitive Origins of Art, Religion and Science	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Great	This is a great book, and along with M. Donald's Origins of the Modern Mind, the most comprehensive and plausible theories of the evolution of the mind. I leave out of this comment evolutionary psychologists, like Pinker or Tooby and Cosmides, because they focus on the results of evolution, not the process itself.<br />Mithen's point is that to fully understand the modern mind and its origins, psychology, cognitive science, philosophy and neuroscience are not enough (these are the classical fields, theres of course sociology, AI, etc...) but that archeology has something to add as well. In fact, as he shows, it is a fundamentlal piece of the puzzle to understand the archeological history of primates in order to see what that has to say about the changes the mind went through across evolution. When others might have focused on language, and its origins, Mithen focuses on the actual evidence: bone remains, ancient tools, etc.<br />Mithen thus divides the evolution of man and his mind in stages, four of them, starting with the common ancestor of man and ape, about 6 million years ago, then with H. Habilis, then H. Erectus and the Nearthentals and finally with, well, us, or Homo Sapiens Sapiens. Mithen basically argues that the mind and its evolution can be understood on the context of the modularity-workspace models of the mind, and that changes in the mind across evolution are simply changes in the interactions (and appearence, existence, use or disuse) of these mental modules and the workspace (which he calls general intelligence). The modules are natural history intelligence, technical intelligence, Social intelligence and language.<br />This approach works well, and for example, shows that the difference between say, an ape (the model for our common ancestor) and a Nearthental, mindwise, is just that while the ape has general intelligence, well developed social intelligence (apes live in groups and interact a lot), their technical and natural intelligences are rather poor (they struggle to build tools, to say the least). Language is, although this point is controversial, absent. The nearthantal, with his natural and technical intelligence almost as developed as his social intelligence (they migrated, had hunting strategies, knew to forage well, built \\"complex\\" tools) and language, would have a much more complex or closer to modern mind. This example is an oversimplification of course, but examplifies Mithens strategy adequately. In similar fashion, Mithen describes the differences and reasons for these differences, in the minds of primates, hominids, and finally man, as well as the gradual change from ape-mind to human-mind.<br />Things in the book, and theoretically, get interesting when H. Sapiens arrives. The difference is not only on how developed the modules or the workspace is, but how these interact. So, the modern mind is what it is because natural science intelligence say, can interact with language and with social and technical intelligence as well. Thus men might want to depict animals (natural) on walls by drawing them (technical) for social purposes. Thus the origins of art. In a similar way, religion appeared. The appearance of pathways across modules and general intelligence, building a meta-workspace, argues Mithen, is the cause of the cultural explotion, of the modern mind. This is again oversimplified, but Mithen does a good job of arguing for why and how this came about.<br />As an interesting note, Mithen talks of consicousness's possible role as an integrator of distributed information in the modules. Consciousness is to Mithen present on the modules by themselves, and thus argues H. Habilis was in that sense consicous, but sees reflexive consciousness as taking its modern form by the addition of connections between modules, the creation of a meta-workspace. This is in close and curious agreement with Baars theory of consicousness, or with neurocognitive workspace models of consciousness (Dehaene's The Cognitive Neuroscience of Consciousness).<br />In closing, this book does much in adding to our understanding of the evolution of the mind, and thus should be read by anyone interested in this most precious aspect of hman life.	2003-01-30
US	46120996	R3EAUA2ZF4XPC1	0781715040	911261185	Consciousness: At the Frontiers of Neuroscience (Advances in Neurology)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Great	This is an amazing collection, as most collections on the science of consciousness are, for the exitement the topic arises.<BR>It is at times a bit too technical, like in E. Jones or Steriade's chapters on thalamic neurobiology. Other chapter are too abstract or &quot;dated&quot; (or is it classical?). But there are also jewels, like the clearest introduction to Edelman and Tononis, Crick and Kotchs, and Jeffrey Grays theories of consicousness. This last chapter was specially interesting, as Grays model of the contents of consicousness was used to study schitzofrenia. Gazzaniga and his interpreter seem more plausible solutions to some major troubles in consicousness theorizing every time I read him. Chapters on language and development are also there and great, as well as one on vision, by no other than H.Hubel, along with T. Weasel, one of the most influential neuroscientists of vision. Philosophical introductions by Patricia Churchland and D. Chalmers and other unmentioned contributions were also quite good.<BR>The cream is however, found on the comment sessions after each paper and the general session at the end of the book. Debates at that level are seldom recorded, and are extremely interesting and though-provoking.<BR>A must-have for serious researchers and thinkers on consciousness.	2003-01-30
US	46120996	RGKA8WNKSKRP	1860940366	368000723	Impossible Minds: My Neurons, My Consciousness	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Artificial consciousness... why not?	It is easy to see why Aleksander is attacked by both philosophers and neuroscientists. He seems to say hes working on a consicous machine, and that there is no problem in saying computers can/are conscious. This book will clarify things a little, however. Aleksander holds compiters and machines, can be artificially consicous, which is very different from normal human consicousness. How different, or in what way? Well, thats what hes trying to find out. And Aleksander is workind on machines so that he can gain understanding on the human kind of consciousness, not to be known as the first researcher to create a conscious computer. IT seems then, that he is on the naturalist and the neuroscientists side, but is approaching the problem from an engineering angle, to be more specific, from the viewpoint of automata theory.<BR>And so, this book is about consciousness, and how it arises out of neurons. He first gives a basic guess, or hypothesis, and then defends it and expans it to see how far it goes. Consciousness is the product of neurons and their functioning, with the crucial function of iconic representations and learning, according to Aleksander. Most of the book deals with diagrams of automata theory, flow charts and neural units, the tools of connectionism. It all looks good at first reading, the points seem obvious. Sure, there is no real talk of actual brain mechanisms, but Aleksander goes to the basics, and it seems to hold up.<BR>Aleksander then brings in important insights into the field of the science of consicousness. If consciousness is the product of neurons, and neurons process information, it does not seem absurd to hold that information processing in something other than neurons can be conscious too. <BR>I do have doubts on how much Aleksander can explain with his current methods. For example, he theorizes on how qualia can emerge from the automata theory diagrams, but this seems to only say that some units, because of previous learning and their interactions, represtent &quot;blue&quot; or &quot;red&quot; or whatever. This is not what philosophers think of the mystery of qualia, however. Neuroscientists talk of &quot;color coding cells&quot; of &quot;color areas&quot;, etc., but the problem is explaining not that the cells represent color, but how by virtue of doing so, color presents itself to our experience the way it does. We are pretty sure neurons can represent blue, but we have very little idea of how this neuron makes the blues &quot;blueness&quot; so striking in our subjective consicous experience. In this sense, philosophers will not be satisfied with Aleksanders account. But then again, no other scientific theory seems to quench philosophers thirst for explanations in the qualia issue, so it can hardly be taken against Aleksander.<BR>This book is what contributions to the consicousness debate should look like. It brings in new insights, is quite simple to read and follow, it argues for a better understanding of consicousness through multidiciplinary approaches (in this case, automata theory), and genuinely makes some advancement. Aleksander however leaves out so many details, that most will find his proposals wanting.	2002-11-10
US	46120996	R2WUP9U3XZIHXS	0262700883	922457933	Consciousness, Color, and Content (Representation and Mind)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Good defence of representationalism	This book is a good, but not introductory defence of representationalism. Tye is one of the big upholders of this view in the philosophy of mind, among others like Dretske and Shoemaker. Seager wrote a good introduction to representationalism (theories of consicousness). This book has three parts. The first deals with the explanatory gap and the knowledge argument. Tye considers an objection to the knowledge argument but finds it inadequate, so he proposes that colorblind mary lacks certain phenomenal concepts, and that therefore naturalism rests untouched. I think the knowledge argument, although still vey popular, is open to many objections, and this one is as good as many others. Tye then dismisses explanatory gap fears as cognitive illusions, and here I also agree, although I am more inclined to David Panpineaus thoughts on the matter.<br />In the second section, Tye gives a quick outline of his version of representationalsim, listing the conditions necesary for a  representation to be phenomenal, and then defends his theory against all kinds of objections. I see no flaws in his arguments, but remain puuzzled about some aspects of representationalism in general. For example it is not clear to me whether Tye holds that physical makeup determines pheneomenal content, but he seems not to. If so, then it is strange to note that it seems quite obvious that what does the representing is the brain, and it certainly is functionally determined by physical makeup. This is not denying externalism, which is another matter altogether. The other thing is that it is also not clear at all how exactly representationalism explains qualia in a &quot;deeper&quot; way than, say, higher order thought dispositional theories. To say that phenomenal content is representational content of some kind, and that the qualities are of objects and not experiences, does not explain why the qualia are the way they are, it only says that they are the way they are because thats how they are on external objects. I guess im not convinced because I simply cannot get over the intuition that experiences also have something to do with qualitative contents. Achromatosia or akinesia seems to affect experience, not merely the representation of external objects qualities, for example. Although representationalism is neturalist-friendly, it also is friendly to some anti-physicalist thesis, and this makes me unconfortable. I also cannot agree to the metaphysical possibility of zombies, for example.<br />The last section of the book deals with a representationalist view of color, that mainly argues for externalism, where I see no real problem, and with the existence of consciousness across the phylogenetic scale. Here one sees that Tyes PANIC theory seems to be a good enough measure for phenomenal consicousness, and I really cannot say I am troubled by the idea that many species, even insects, have some phenomenal content, given of course that this content is also scaled acording to complexity. That is, honeybees may have phenomenal content, but it must be extremely limited and uninteresting, something we would not recognize as phenomenal at all, probably.<br />This is a good book for someone who is not a beginner in philosophy, there is complex argumentation, but anyone would probably get the main points and find them interesting. Representationalism is relatively a conservative philosophy for the problem of consicousness, and it seems plausible and a good candidate for explaining qualia. The only reason to adopt this position over others, like plain identity theory, functionalism, biological neuturalism, or whatever, is that it can deal adequately with qualia and remain neturalistic. Time will tell wether it is this theory that will turn out to be right, but this is unlikely, considering the history of philosophy.	2002-10-18
US	46120996	R2QMMP19LZ7YJ7	0520237374	469618670	Exploring Consciousness	Books	5	39	41	N	N	READ THIS, IF NOTHING ELSE, ON CONSCIOSUNESS	The scientific study of consciousness has become an independent field already. No more can an author start a work on the subject complaining about how little is known, or how the subject is ignored, or how mystery surround the whole enterprise. Data on consciousness seems to come out of every laboratory, and new books are published monthly dealing specifically with consciousness and its physical basis. Given that this is roughly the state of the field, this book arrives in percfect timing, as quite possibly the first &quot;real&quot; textbook of the science of consciousness.<br />True, there have been many popular books on the subject, and amazingly complete collections of both philosophical and scientific issues relating to consciousness. But in most of these, researchers advance their personal theories, or philosophers argue in favour of various diferent positions, and at the end leave one with only one side of the debate, or with too specific information that one cannot put toghether into a larger picture.<br />This book, however, is diferent. Carter remains mostly objective, and manages to go over most of the major points of the dificult subject that is consicousness. As in any other textbook, of course, what is sacrified is detail. Everything ranging from embodiement, neuropsychology, neuroscience, the self, agency and ownerhsip, psi research and the quantum, philosophy and the hard problem, is given space and is covered adequately. All of this would be meaningless if it was not as clearly explained, and the book as clearly written, as was possible. Carter managed this and more. If the layperson was to read only one book on the subject, I am convinced it should be this one.<br />The layout of the book adds to its value. In between the text are various illustrations that, well, illustrate various points. There are also little esays by prominent figures in the field that go into more specific sub-issues. These are I think both helpful and flawed. Helpful, becausethey aquaint the newcomer with some important matters, but flawed because thay are so brief as to leave out other equaly important matters.<br />Not all can be praise, however. Carter first and most obvious flaw in writting is her incredibly small bibliography and citation, that gives the impression the author is not familiar with the literature. The chapter on the evolution of consicousness, for example, draws almost exclusively from work done by Nicholas Humphrey. His work is brilliant, but how forget Mandler, Denton, Donald, McPhail, among many, many others. The chapters on consicousness and the brain are good, but given that there are dozens of books on that specific issue, it seemed a bit plain. No mention of neruochemical theories, of the work of Weiskrantz, Baars, Newman, Delacour, Taylor, Cotterill, among many, many others. All of this is related as well with some little errors in content, like for example (and this is recurring) the claim that no visual consciousness can exist without v1 (area). Crick and Kotch, Lumer and ffytche, Weiskrantz, all have done experimental work that says otherwise.<br />Finally, there is the hard problem and psi research. Psi research should always be arround when one talks about consciousness, and so should quantum theories of consicousness. Carter almost only passingly mentions these fields, and the book is not a good introduction to these two sub-issues. Carter also constantly says not much can be said about the hard problem, about qualia. I think this is wrong, and showed to be so by data she presents in the book itself. If qualia are correlated to brain activity, transcranial stimulation of that brain area shown to cause that qualia, and damage of it shown to abolish qualia, is this not just a couple of steps away from understannding what qualia is all about? I am going to be optimistic and say that it is.	2002-10-07
US	46120996	R1J7CDRX3DKUNB	0195508726	879058684	The Crucible of Consciousness: A Personal Exploration of the Conscious Mind	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Interesting	Torey seeks to explain our ability to be conscious that we are conscious, that is, self-consciousness (not consciousness of the self, or biological core consicousness). His theory depends largely on the claim that it is language that gives humans this ability. Accordingly, Torey advances theories both of the mechanisms that make self-consciousness arises as well as of how language arose in our species. Torey also discusses issues like free will, brain function, and at the last chapters speculates irresponsibly on quantum and cosmological relevance to human purpose. He remains somewhat skeptic, but the book was mostly testable hypothesis and good science until then.<br />Language to torey arises out of brain adaptations, the formation of concepts and percepts, hemispheric asymetry and attentional ocillations, all concepts that he defines in a particular way in context of the rest of the book. Self-consciousness seems to Torey to arise from an interplay between reflective loops mediated by language in simple animal consciousess. All of this is quite straightforward, but Torey argues his points extremely carefully, so his theory seems to be solid. Future evidence will be needed to show if it will hold the test of time.<br />The text was not as clear as it could heve been. Toreys writing is repetitive and confusing. There arent many references to other theories, some very relevant or related, on self-consciousness. Neither language nor self-consciousness are isolated subjects, and both have a large body of literature from where Torey could have gained support, insights, or clarifications. He seems instead to try to start from scratch using heavily some particular sources (which I would say are dated). One could also raise objections to the theories. Is language absolutely necessary for self-consciousness? what of deaf-mutes, then? Can self-consciousness be understood without first explaining simple biological consicousness first? How does the theory relate to higher order thought theories of consciousness (these propose a similar mechanism but for consciousness per se, not self-consciousness as defined by Torey)? What about the brain mechanisms involved? is someone without the left hemisphere not self-conscious? if language makes us self-conscious, does damage to language areas lead to un-self-consciousness? The answers that Torey is forced to by his theories would be quite controversial.	2002-10-07
US	46120996	R1YF689XEXJUSP	1588111245	638147727	Neurochemistry of Consciousness: Neurotransmitters in mind (Advances in Consciousness Research)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Must read	This book is a must read for anyone interested in the scientific study of consciousness. Neurochemicals, as well as emotion, are the two long forgotten aspects in the field that might do much to see how the puzzle could be put together. But this book has merits on content as well. It is the most comprehensive review of how brain chemistry relates to consciousness. Granted, this relation is unclear (causation, modulation, colouring, facilitation?), but what is true is that consciousness is to most the result of brain activity (and hence, neuron activity), and that neurons comunicate and are heavily modulated by a variety of chemicals.<br />The book gives a good introduction to the major systems that irrigate the cortex with neuromodulators and neurotransmitters, like noradrenalin, serotonin, dopamine, acetycholine, etc. It is telling even here that most nuclei involved are in or arround the reticular activating system (raphe, meyenert, caudate), a structure long impicated with consciousness (even if only as a necessary condition of activation). There is a chapter on what is to me the most plausible quantum model of consciousness (but I remain sceptic), by N. Woolf, and proposes that acetycholine regulates proteins that bind to microtubules making these apt for quantum coherence (if this sounds complicated, it is).<br />The first section deals witj neurochemistry of memory, attention,spleep, dreaming, etc..., issues that obviously relate to consciousness in important ways. Attention for example, is to most essential to consciousness, given that unattended stimuli seem to not become conscious, whereas attended ones invariably seem to. Sleep is obviously a good paradigm for studying consciousness, given that it is characterized by changes in the conscious state itself. If we understood everything about sleep, we would be a long way into understanding consciousness.<br />The second chapter deals with how chemicals affect consciousness. Here I beliieve, anaesthethics areof primary importance. There is a chapter on anaesthesia, on neuroleptics, on drugs and plants that have them, etc.. Anaesthethics seem to abolish consciousness, so finding out why would at the very least tell us the necessary conditions for consciousness to occur. The papers on this section illustrate the role some neurochemicals might have in the regulation of the conscious state, as well as how when malfunctioning these can have effects on the conscious state.<BR>The last chapter deals with brain diseases, (altzheimers, lewey bodies, schizofrenia, mood-disorders, autism), their probably chemical substrates, and how understanding them not only could bring relief to sufferers of these disorders, but illuminate the mechanisms of consciousness.<br />All in all, this is a wonderful book, and everyone that reads it will not think of consciousness again without including brain neurochemistry into the picture. It is clear that consicousness will only be fully understood when we have its neural correlates, its neurochemical correlates, its functional correlates, and a way to translate all this into a phenomenal language. This book is then an attempt into puting together one quarter of the puzzle. (For another half of the puzzle, see NCC by T. Metzinger, The Cognitive Neuroscience of Consciousness, by S. Dehaene,In The Theather of Consciousness by Bernard Baars. Unfortunately, the last quarter of the puzzle, qualia, lacks a good representative in the literature. try Humphreys How to Solve the Mind-Body Problem, or maybe Carrunthers, Phenomenal Consciousness.)	2002-10-02
US	46120996	RTDBNWW15EFT7	9057022036	710875094	Idea of Consciousness: Synapses and the Mind	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Lot of pictures, few information	This book is rather textbooklike, has a lot of pictures, but on content, falls a little short of what the subject demands. Bennett sticks with discussing theories proposed by others as well as evidence and how they might fit in explaining consciousness. This is all fine, now that one needs synthesis more than new evidence and models, but Bennett could have been more speculative. I mention this, because nowhere in the book does one see how synapses or neural circuits could give rise to consicousness. I enjoyed the chapter on quantum physics and their shot at the consciousness problem. Bennett was clear, explained collapse and no-collapse interpretations, and clearly showed how and how-not these could play a role in brain functioning. He mantained healthy skepticism on the matter, but aknowledged that there is a possibility that the quantum might have something to do with consciousness. He himself believes, however, as do I, that neural dynamics are enough.<br />Among other things, Bennett analyzes the relevance of 40hz ocillations in brain functioning, and discusses its implications and possible evidence nicely. He talks about how the syntax in the brain is contained in algorithms to process signals, in vision maybe, and how semantics is rooted on perceptual mechanisms, as well as temporal lobe specialied areas (face recognition, for example). He is quiet about qualia, but aknowledges that it is hard to not see evidence for its neural substrates on experiments done on v5, the motion area of the visual cortex, in illusions such as the waterfall effect. These show that movement qualia and activity in v5, or monkey mt, are almost perfectly correlated. He rightly stresses that is not near enough to satisfy for an explanation.<br />Bennett discussion of the evolution of consciousness I thought was brilliant. He put the evidence in the table, (40 htz ocillations, blindsight studies, etc,) and proposed a possible way to test consicousness in animals, by say, noting the existence of neural projections through the colliculus to the visual areas, and the presence of the ocillations. He is reserved as to an opinion but seems to allow consicousness to creatures other than man. Bennett also discussed at lenght Humphreys theory of the sentient loop as source of consicousness, and also had a chapter devoted to schizophrenia, neuromotransmitters, and how this sheds light on brain mechanisms for consciousness.<br />This book is a great introduction to the neuroscience of consicousness, is easy to read and follow, but is not original nor speculative. At the end it is hard to see how everything comes together to explain consciousness, but I doubt this was the authors intention anyway. I would recomend reading this before any other deeper books on the subject, like Damasios or Edelmans, or the collections Neural Correlates of Consicousness by Metzinger and The Cognitive Neuroscience of Consicousness, by Dehaene.	2002-09-18
US	46120996	R2323EK9OVXGDO	0415132274	505253932	Awareness: What It Is, What It Does	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Nice, but strange,	This little book is about consciousness, and it starts of well, as most do. You get some basic neuroscience, the exlplanation of some theories and experiments, and all is well. Nunn, however, divides the candidates for explaining consciousness in two (he shuns dualism). Theres the neural theories and the quantum theories. He holds that the latter are on the right track, and for most of the book discusses the implications of this.<br />Nunn then agrees with penrose, the quantum can explain consciousness, by some sort of wave collapse or bose-condensates. This is all well, and very interesting. But Nunn holds that the evidence weights in favour of this claim, which I think is strange. You see, the evidence he shows are these : EEG correlations, EEG measuring effects on task performance, and psi experiments. Now, put this against 40 years of neuroscience research on attention, memory, perception, consciousness, and you do not balance the scale. Did I mention psi and EEG correlation experiments are all controversial, to say the least?<br />Nunn argues that quantum theories explain more, but this is questionable. The only things at which quantum theories have a better shot, are questinable themselves. Telepathy, panpsichism, TM, etc. Nunn holds that he does not favour quantum theories because it allows one to keep some good old fashioned dualistic points of view, but constantly comments that quantum explanations of consicousness are prettier, and stretch the immagination, and allow one to keep folk psychological concepts, ......you get the point. IN truth, anything in this book is explainable by quantum and by neural theories of consciousness. The problem is that one has to give an explanation of why quantum has to be relevant to brain function, whereas this is not necessary with neural theories. Nunn does not give this explanation, (others have tried, like Hameroff).	2002-09-14
US	46120996	R817B67LQZ6QA	080581471X	575994012	Scientific Approaches to Consciousness (Carnegie Mellon Symposia on Cognition Series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great addition to the consciousness literature.	THis book is a great collection of papres, straightfowardly focused on scientific issues in consicousness studies. Implicit (unconscious) influences, attention, consicousness and higher cognition are all given space mostly in the diciplines of neuroscience and cognitive science. Like most edited volumes, not every paper is groundbreaking nor incredibly interesting. Some material might also have been published (content wise) somewhere else. BUt as it is also usual, some papers are really brilliant.<br />The introduction is adequate, and the second section is brilliant. Jacoby et al propose that conscious and unconsicous influences in cognition are independent of each other. Shriffin argues that equating unnconsicous with automatic and consicous with controled is an oversim plification. Shneider et al propose a cognitive processing control funtion for consicousness. IN section four, Rebers paper clearly stands out, and it is quite good. Section five has some great speculation into the meta-cognitive aspect of consicousness. Section six is also great. Kinsbourne claims that consicousness arises from any neural circuit that has certain properties, like activation, duration and congruence of activity. Farah raise some interesting insight into the neural bases of consicousness that arise from cases of prosopagnosia. Hobsons paper deals with the neuromodulatory role of certain chemicals in consicous states. Section seven is more philosophically inclined. Flanagan presents his idea of a science of consciousness and Baars his workspace model. Herbert A. Simon concludes with a very interesting paper on the issues in the science of consicousness.<br />In closing, this book is quite complete, and more scientifically inclined than other collections. IT should interest anyone interested in consciousnes studies.	2002-09-03
US	46120996	R3NCZT90F2GWSG	0195096738	124480545	Affective Neuroscience: The Foundations of Human and Animal Emotions (Series in Affective Science)	Books	4	18	24	N	N	emotion glorified?	Emotion is one of those left-aside topics in neuroscience and cognitive science. Research are facinated by memory, learning, attention, consciousness even, but until lately, emotion was only discussed in passing. This book tries to change all that, but maybe seems to take it to far at times, placing emotion as THE fundamental aspect of cognition. Now, there is no question that emotion is not just another \\"quale\\", or a \\"coloring\\" of experience, but a dynamic, multifaceted, evolutionary ancient and complex system. But I doubt it will turn out to be the key to explaining all of cognitive abilities, lower, or higher. Obviously emotion was there before higher executive control, but this does not mean the latter can be reduced to the former (not that Panksepp explicitly claims this). IT is very interesting however, to see that emotion may play a big part in the phenomenon of consicousness (see for example Damasios books, or Douglas Watts work).<br />Panksepp mainly argues for a subcortical, hypothalamic and midbrain, and neurochemical substrate of emotion. The amygdala (set as the seat of emotion in LeDouxs \\"the emotional brain\\") regulates the expression of emotion, but the real players are lower systems, in midbriain mainly. The same goes to putative cingulate cortex theories of emotion. For Panksepp, the midbrain is the essential structure for the creation of emotion. These issues are taken up on the first section on the book But the grander picture in all of this is that it is clear that there must be an integration between cognition and emotion.<br />The second section of the book deals with emotional primitives, and vigilance and regulatory states. The emotional primitives and the value that is attached to emotional states, again, depend on midbrain structures, and are very sensitive to neuromodulation. Pnaksepp deals with emotional primitives like playfulness, fear, sexual behaviour, bonding etc.. and gives their neuroanatomical and neurochemical correlates. The last section has a similar outline, but deals with the social emotions. This is all presennted in textbook form, which is good for clarity. However, it seems that at times there is way too much speculation, and that emotion seems to play a part of everything else in the brain. For example, Panksepp speculates that emotion somehow places the organizing framework for consciousness, and that some kind of representation of self is needed for the experience of emotion. This is very interesting, but highly speculative. Panksepp also argues for regulatory and midbrain structures in the creation of a primitive sense of self (strikingly similar to Damasios \\"proto-self\\"ideas).<br />In closing, Panksepps book is essetnial reading for anyone interested in cognition. Emotion should not, and cannot be left out if one wants to understand cognition. IT covers a lot of ground in emotion neuroscience but also speculates in its role in a global integrated model of cognition, the self and even consicousness. This is actually all warranted and welcome speculation, but not clearly prudent. I think that emotion should be placed in its rightful place in the cognitive hierarchy, but I do not think that it is at the top.	2002-07-30
US	46120996	R1WDH32BINPBU1	019511888X	22177751	Cognitive Neuroscience of Emotion	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Great.	Emotion had been largely ignored in cognitive neuroscience until some year ago (with LeDoux, Damasio, Panksepp leading the way) Now, there are various attempts to restore emotion as a very important and fruitfull line of research. Cognition cannot be understood stripped of emotion. This book is a collection of the many issues in affective neuroscience. There are various papers dealing with its neuronal correlates, its place in the cognitive hierarchy, with value, its conscious expression, among many other things. Emotion is a complex and multifaceted phenomenon, and cognitive neuroscience is trying to explain it from many prespectives. This book is the culmination of these attempts. Must-read for anyone interested in emotion and neuroscience.	2002-07-30
US	46120996	R6CF6C1GXXGEQ	0393049507	36641631	A Mind So Rare: The Evolution of Human Consciousness	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	Interesting book, confused sometimes.	This is a book about consciousness, but Donald concentrates on extended human consciousness. His approach is functional and psychological, not neurobiological, but he uses neurobiological evidence here and there. The first thing Donald does is discuss many different views on consicousness, dismissing their proponents as &quot;hardliners&quot; and their theories as unsatisfactory. For example, he does not like the equating of consicousness to perception or sensation (nick humphrey, robert kirk, etc..). He also does not like working memory and language-as-consciousess theories (Fodor, Jaynes, John G. Taylor, Larry Weiskrantz, Dennett, but I think he has a point- aphasics, deaf mutes, and non linguistic creatures {probably} are conscious). Consciousnes is none of this, Donald argues. It is a cognitive ability of executive control, multifocal capacity with a vast evolutionary heritage. Now I would agree with this, but Donalds objections probably arise from confusions. For example, he fails to notice that theorists that equate consciousness with sensation have phenomenal consicousness (qualia) in mind (think of Blocks distinction between access and phenomenal consciousness) not full fledged extended human consciousness. It is true access consciousness cannot be reduced to sensation, but phenomenal consciousness might (notice the might). The same with at least some language theorists (Dennett, for example) They claim not that consicousness is language, but that it is essential for it, especially in the human type of consicousness. This is something Donald argues for later in the book himself. The same with working memory as consciousness theories. They explain the role of WM in consciousness, wich Donald also considers essential.<br />Apart form these confusions in the reading by Donald of the literature, there is also his idea that short-term memory and capacity limitations are not helpful concepts. Consciousness, Donald says, is more of an intermediate term phenomenon.(Does Donald then equate consciousness with memory, and if so, is this contradictory? THink of hippocampal lesioned patients, who though consicous, can only function in intervals of seconds, before forgetting that period). His confusion I think, rests in his conception of short term memory. He argues that human consicousnes takes place in temporal units of many minutes and hours, like in the following of a converation, and since WM is of the order of seconds, this cannot be the whole story. But it is not clear to me that one could not explain Donalds &quot;intermediate term&quot; consciousness by alluding to WM plus some sort of reactivation by top-down processes.<br />To me the strongest part of the book is where Donald argues that not only humans are conscious. Consicousness emerged in stages, with different characteristics and abilities, and there is no good reason to deny it to many mamals. Humans and primates, are in a diferent class altogether. They have a group of executive abilities that make consciousness more interesting. He proposes three levels, binding, working memory, intermediate and long term control. Binding is perceptual consciousness, the coherent representation of objects, and is probably the basic form of awareness, present in many species. Working memory is extends binding in time, and is probably characteristic of primates and select mamals. Intermediate control is episodic, executive, and extends consciousness considerably, in place probably in social mamals. Here one could see that Donald fals prey of his own primary objections. He objects to consicousness being identified with working memory, language, or sensation alone, but he seems to say consicousness is all of these things together. This is not extremely self-consistent.<br />Next comes Donalds major point. That human consicousness is not just that. THere is more, and that is the fact that we are not just brains, but brains in culture, and that culture and language expand consciousnessinto the human kind we enjoy. That is, we compute symbolically, but also analogically, we are &quot;hybrid minds&quot;. Donald lists pre-requisites of this deep enculturation. There is extended executive function, superplasticity in cortex, the evolution of asssociation areas in cortex, voluntary access to memory, and an extended working memory. This, along with the influence of culture and language, is human consicousness.<br />Enculturation, is to Donald essential, as can be seen in the last chapters of the book that recapitulate the ideas of his former book &quot;Origins of the Modern Mind&quot;, about the three stages of cognitive evolution of mimesis, episodic ability and invention of symbolic comunication and external storage. This is a different matter from consicousness altogether, that proposes how the human cognitive architecture evolved. It is a very intreresting theory, that Donald at the end uses to structure his ideas on consciousness.<br />Donalds book is very thought provoking, but has some very questionable claims (For example, he says there are no projections from association cortex to sensory cortex, which is wrong, or that neural networks might be consicous but not serial computers, even though neural nets are implemented on the latter, being comitted to the strange position that in a computer the software might be consicous, but not the computer itself) probably due to his strange reading of the literature. He critiques models of consciousness as essentially misleading, but not noticing that it is because other theorists concentrate on primary, sensory and access consicousness, not the whole of human consciousness with its exeptional range of characteristics. He also forgets about emotions and their role on creating the self and consciousness, as well as the role of sub cortical structures, like MRT, thalamus, etc.) By concentrating on HUMAN consciousness, he only partially explains this elusive phenomenon, not giving even hints about the nature of phenomenal consciousness, and only very abstractly proposing testable hypotheses, a fatal flaw in my view for any science-inclined book.	2002-07-29
US	46120996	R1LDUDCTGHVL7L	0262530856	680637452	Neurophilosophy: Toward a Unified Science of the Mind-Brain	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Layed the framework.	This book is now a bit dated, so its importance is much more historical. This book was intended to show philosophers some neurobiology and neurobiologists some philosophy. It follows from Churchlands strict scientific view of philosophy, and her at that time eliminitavist position - the belief that all folk-psychological concepts can and should be replaced by scientific concepts of neurobiology. So the book introduces neuroanatomy, function, etc... but that maeterial is somewhat dated. There is an introduction to philosophy of science. But the core argument is that philosophy of mind should use neurobiological insights in theorizing, and the belief that it will be at the end neurobiology all thet there is to it.<br />For some reasons, this is no place to critique the books views. This was the first serious and very ambitious attempt into integrating neurosicience and philosophy of mind to tackle problems like cosnciousness, perception, action, etc.. Elimitivism is not highly regarded nowdays, and the fuzz about connectionist models is fading away. Some proposals were naive, even. But the book is still a classic in the field of cognitive neuroscience, philosophy of mind, and well, neurophilosophy.	2002-07-25
US	46120996	R1FVAV1206XZN	0415110815	484786535	The Science of Consciousness	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Good collection.	This is a good collection of papers on the science of consciousness. Anyone interested on the field, or someone familiar with it, will find nothing terribly new, except perhaps the clinical papers, those dealing with the placebo effect and somatic consequences of consciousness. This would be a much better introductory text than an original contribution in general. <br />The introduction is about average. Papers on perception without awareness and consciousness in relation to memory and learning are quite good. Bernard Baars presents his cognitive theory of consciousness again. Then are the two really good papers, the jewels, one by Libet discussing neural correlates of consicousness, and a review of neuropsychology and dissociation in consciousness by A. Young, one of the best yet. Then there are the before mentioned papers on clinical matters, the often ignored section in consciousness studies. Max Velmans writes some philosophy of consciousness, and proposes a reflexive model, which I think was a little confusing, for mixing up phenomenology and objectivity. For example, for him pain is in the finger that hurts, not in the brain. But he admits the correlates and presumably mechanisms of pain are in the brain. He holds that pain is in the finger that hurts in a strange pseudo-phenomenological sense.	2002-07-23
US	46120996	R1PD7CWRXBHFNF	0262560771	549646173	Consciousness Reconsidered (MIT Press)	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	Philosophy that makes sense.	This is one of the early philosophy books that started to make sense on the issue of consciousness. Comming from a decade where Joe Levine told us there was a gap, Frank Jackson that materialism left something out, McGuinn told us we could not understand it, the Churchlands wanted to get rid of the thing, this book is a great relief. Consciousness, according to Flanagan, is a natural phenomenon, rooted in the brain. IT is real, capable of being defined, it evolved, and tractable scientifically. We need not despair, nor look in wrong and exotic places like quantum mechanics. Psychology, phenomenology, neurobiology and cognitive science will do. This is useful philosophy.<br />In the first chapter, Flanagan sketches the field of philosophy of consicousness. He defines the different positions (consicousness is mysterious, consciousness does not exist, consciousness does not matter, consciousness is unintelligeble, consciousness is miracolous, etc..) and argues for naturalism and the adequacy of science to take on the job.  In chapter 2, he shows why elimination of the concept of consicousness will not do. Surely, the concept is ot clear, but it points to a real phenomenon in need of explanation. In chapter 3, Flanagan talks about consciousness and the brain, how and why it evolved, and tries to make clear that there is nothing strange about the idea that cosnciousness might just be the brain itself.<br />IN chapter 4, Flanagan discusses qualia. He concentrates on Dennetss position that qualia should be eliminated scince nothing could have the properties philosophers claim qualia has. Flanagan agrees, but rightly notices that quala need not refer to that which philosophers talk about. Qualia are real, and there is something like to be in a phenomenal state. In chapter 5, Flanagan chalenges the inteligibility gap and the knowledge argument. Consicousness is the brain, but understanding the brain will not cause you to experience somebody elses consciousness. The gap is epistemological not ontological.<br />In chapter 6 Flanagan discusses the new mysterianism, the view that consicousness is a netural explanation, but beyond our cognitive abilities to explain or understand. He points out that most arguments for this position are invalid. The standards set in this view for explanation are unrealistically high, and progress has been done in understanding consciousness, regardless of what mysterians may say. Chapter 7 takes on epiphenomenalism, the view that consicousness serves no function and no casual role. This view in coeherent and should be taken reasonable. Indeed sometimes consiousness seems to be a bystander. But others, it is essential for initiating behaviour, functioning cognitively correctly and develop the self.<br />Chapter 8 is about phenomenology and how the stram of consicousness, although not quite real, is an accurate description of the first person prespective. Chapter 9 is about the illusion of a cartesian I or ego that rules mental life. As chapter 10 makes clear there is a self that is a center of a narrative, it emerges from the brain, but it does not have cartesian properties. The book concludes with the idea that consicousnes can be explained, that a scientific theory is possible and that cognitive science, psychology and neurscience will succeed. <br />This is good philosophy indeed. Consicousness is portrayed simply, as a natural phenomentol being understood through science. There are some objections one could make, but in all, considering the philosophical views of consicousness, this one is science friendly and informative. THis is the kind of constructivism that one should expect form philosophers.	2002-07-06
US	46120996	R1II2BERRAPSQR	0156010755	257848019	The Feeling of What Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of Consciousness	Books	4	14	16	N	N	great Book.	Dmasio has been setting the background for his theory of consciousness from the early 90es with publications on convergence zones, and on neuropsychology. His book Descartes Error discusses emotional and affective states as regulated by homeostatic processes, an important part of his theory of consciousness. His is a second order theory of consciousness with an special role for the self. He starts with definitions, and he introduces many concepts, some of which are useful, others too vauge or not-obviously helpful. He introduces the proto-self, the core-self, and the autobiographical self. Consciousness will itself consist in core consicousness and extended consciousness.<br />The proto self is just an image of the body as represented by homeostatic and regulating mechanisms of the brain. Brain stem nuclei, hypothalami, insular and somatosensory cortices are essential in this story. The proto self in nonconscious, and is the foundation of the core self one of the protagonists of the making of consicousness. Consciousness is a feeling because it is rooted on the proto self, on body signals. The core self is is a transistent and repeatedly re-created entity for each object. Damasio holds that it is the core self in relationship with an object that is essential for consciousness. The object is just the content of perceptual representations, and is largely understood. Core Consciousness then is about two things. The organism (core self)involved in relating to an object, and the object in the relation causing the organims to change. (So perception has effects on bodily states, on musculoskeletal reactions, etc..).<br />Consciousness is create in 3 steps according to Damasios model. The first step leads to a non verbal account of what happens in the brain when the organism interacts with the object, a mapped narrative that creates the feeling of knowing. Then objects of the organisms experience are reactivated mnemonically in recall by core consicousness. Collections of these memorized objects become the objects of ones autobiography, and so the autobiographical self is created. Finally, the holding simustaniously active the images of the autobiographical self and the object, with the enhancement of language, memory, attention and learning, creates the extended consciousness familiar to humans. <br />The neural mappings of the object and the organism reacting to the object are first order maps. This is insufficient for core consicousness. Consciousness occurs when an organim forms a second order mapping of the happenings of the first orer maps, second order maps that describe the relationship between the object and the organism. The second order maps represent the organism in the process of making first order maps related to the aprprehension of an object. This is the crucial step in Damasios account. Proposed neural sites of these second order mappings are the colliculus, the thalamus, the cingulate cortices, some medial parietal areas and the predrontal areas. For theoretical reasons, Damasio favours the thalamus and the cingulate cortices.<br />Damasio presents a lot of evidence in favour of his theory, but to my mind, not all of it is remotely conclusive. For example, Damasio cites that cingulate damage creates akinetic mutism, and holds this helps his case. But he does not tells us that not all cingulate damage causes akinetic mutism, nor that akinetic mutism is not described by patients as unconsciousness, but as a loss of thought and volition. Thalamus damage causes loss of consciousness, as do some nuclei involved in creating the proto-self. But the reasons for this are that (thalamus, and reticular activating system) these contribute to cortical activation in general. They may play a role in Damasios speculations, but this is not obvious. He dismisses frontal and parietal areas too quickly. Parietal damage can cause neglect, whcih is a disturbance of consciousness. If it is true that frontal lobe damage does not cause lossof consicousness, it is not clear that it might not be a sufficient(assuming there are many of these) but not necessary condition for it. Working memory and planning might enrich extended consciousness considerably.<br />Damasio is also holding a philosophical position when he holds that a second order patern is whan creates consciousness. Contrast this whith HOT theories who claim that consicousness is having second order thoughts about other thoughts. If so, objection to HOT theories might be raised against damasio. Is this higher order map necessary and sufficient for consciousness, or only to instrospective mechanisms, self-consciousness, or cognitive higher abilities? How about phenomenal consicousness? Is the cingulate important for consicousness because of the role damasio gives to it, or because (as many studies show) the cingulate modulates attentive, emotional, and intrasensory integration functions? Damasio himself notes that attention, emotions and other functions may be linked to consciousness, but are not consicousness . How about theories that hold that the sufficient and necessary conditions for, say, consicousness of color, is simply activation in v4, a first order map, as many studies suggest? is attention really independent of consciousness, as Damasio holds? research shows that attention might be a pre-condition for a stimulus to enter awareness.<br />Damasio got some things right, but he undoubtedly got others wrong. His approach is ambitious and informative, as well as very plausible. I recomend this book highly, but I do not think at the end Damasios theory will stand as it is presented in this book.	2002-07-06
US	46120996	RMYYYSU1MHPK0	0198236794	501486457	Raw Feeling: A Philosophical Account of the Essence of Consciousness	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good for a philosophical approach.	This book is a book about the philosophy of consciousness. It is about showing that it is not impossible to determine the sufficient and necessary conditions that a purely physical system must have in order to be conscious. This is one of those philosophy books that make sense, and that scientists do not have to shun. For at the heart, Kirks model of consciousness is empirical, at least relatively, falsifiable, and based in information processing terms. There is of course the usual discussion on the philosophy of mind. Kirk rightly puts aside dualism, epiphenomenalism, eliminitavisms, behaviourisms, new mysterianisms, etc.. He is a minimalist physicalist, and consciousness emerges from the brain.<br />The philosophy is tricky, however. Let me ilustrate. Kirk holds that soley physical facts cannot determine conscious states (functionalism, pages 89, 195). He also holds that all mental truths are entailed by all physical truths. (76). He also holds that functions alone cannot determine fully conscious states, and that (as his dicussion of the martian that is like a human, but with a brain made of jelly, say, shows) physical differences can determine differences in conscious states.(pg.189-190). BUt he claims to have shown the necessary link between functional and physical set-ups and conscious states. (page 209). Now at first sight, some of these claims seem to contradict others. Some of them have to go. But one has to understand Kirks motivations and arguments better.<br />Kirk does not mantain that knowledge of the physical will convey total knowledge of the mental. So the bat argument, and the knowledge argument fails. Zombies are impossible because physical facts entail all mental facts. But Kirk mantains that the spectrum inversion is actually possible. But the point is, that not if there is not at least a physical or funtional diference, together with the difference in raw feeling.(his term for qualia, but not quite the same as qualia). There may be behaviouralequality with different raw feels, but no physical and fuctional equality. But the actual physical realization of something has no logical effect on that something, althoug it has a contingent effect. So Kirk is just careful, not inconsistent.<br />Asides aside, Kirk proposes a theory of how consciousness can emerge from a purely physical system. The key is information. The system must aquire information that is for it, such information must be directly active on assesment properties, and the system must have the basic package: storing information, assesing information, making decisions, controlling behaviour, and having needs and goals. A system that satisfies all these conditions will be conscious. This is a strong claim. What is clear though, is that conscious systems undoubtedly have all these abilities. It is no argument to say &quot;could not all that happen, without consciousness?&quot;. The question is rather, whether these are indeed necesary or sufficient conditions for consciousness? Kirk thinks so, but here he is less persuasive.<br />Kirks theory is empirical, however, so it is valuable. It is certainly open to falsification. For example, in neurosciece. Suppose that it is found (studies take this line of argument) that the neural correlates of visual motion consciousness is activity in V5. Now, this activity is necessary and sufficient (in the intact brain) for motion consciousness. The question is, does V5 have the basic package? maybe not, but the system would. In this sense, the key point is that information, according to Kirk, must be directly active. So this is in line with current theorizing that consciousness requires global availability of information in a distributed workspace in the brain (see The Cognitive Neuroscience of Consciousness). In any case I doubt activating V5 on a dish would cause any kind of consciousness.<br />So kirk is a nturalist constructivist, in Flanagans terms. The brain causes consciousness naturally, and it is possibleto see how this could be done. His model is not quite that strong or convincing, but it is extremely thought-provoking and interesting for a philosophical one. If his approach is fundamentally flawed, I missed that flaw. The heavy philosophy will obscure things a bit, but hey, it happens. Book at times technical, philosophically, but otherwise great read, fun, interesting and should have impact on the debate.	2002-07-03
US	46120996	R2KI2LOKCPW06L	0520224612	451771021	Mapping the Mind	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Good.	This is a good book, covering a lot of ground, introductory, that discusses a lot of research. It certainly would not hurt someone that is not a begginer to check it out, because it sumarizes a lot of information.<BR>The book starts off with general functional neuroanatomy. Next it explores issues in hemispheric specializations. It talks of split-brain research, among other things. Presents a nice overview, not being affected by the popularization (and simplification) of the &quot;left-brain, right-brain&quot; idea. The next section covers the labour that the limbic system does, namely regulating and emotive functions. THere is also some neuropharmacology. Next the book dicusses perception and sensation, does a good job in presenting neuropsychological, neurobiological and cognitive evidence. There is a chapter on language, its mechanisms and disorders. Next comes memory, its different types, concentrating on neurological underpinnings, hipocampus, temporal cortex, molecular changes. LTP etc..Finally there is the frontal lobes. They are characterized as the seat of reason, consciousness etc.<br />To me the most intersting part of the book are the contributions made by prominent authors. There are sections on consciousness, by Penrose and CRick. Damasio talks of convergence zones as binding mechanism. LeDoux talks of emotions, Rose of molecular bases of memory, and Richard Gregory of perception, among other contributions.<BR>The other thing that makes this book worthwile are the ilustrations, clarity, typography and presentation of the book.	2002-07-02
US	46120996	R14ASOK17VKP44	0380726475	428320645	Descartes' Error	Books	4	16	16	N	N	good book.	This book is about the central role emotion plays in cognition. Descartes error, dualism, is, well, an error. Few today fail to notice that. However, the other error, the separation made between reason and emotion, is today still lurking in the popular conception of the mind.(even in neuroscience one reads of terrible simplifications like &quot;right hemisophere emotional, left rational&quot; not strictly wrong, but misleading) GRanted, Descartes regarded emotion (qualitative aspects)in the same class of stuff as reason (res cogitas), but the problem is that it is the physiological aspect of emotions that is interesting, and indeed superceeds the qualitative aspects, as Damasio makes clear.<br />So emotions play a role in all of cognition, including reason. Memories are made stronger and can be wiped out by emotion. Emotions affect attentive mechanisms. As Damasios much recent work implies, emotion might be essetnial to consciousness. Learning is modulated in strange ways by emotions. Emotions seem to know more than we do, sometimes. For example, Damasio tells us of prosopagnosics who cannot recognize faces, but who show viceral (sweating, pulse, etc..) reactions to faces that are familiar. But his main efforts are presenting evidence that reason itself uses emotions to guide its decision making process.<br />Damasio focuses on neuropsychology. A patient with damage in frontal lobes (seat of reason, but more ventrally, also emotions i.e Phineas Gage)fails to catch on on changing conditions during an experiment that requires the subject to use reason and devise a strategy. It seems that emotion kind of alerts reason of valuable choices and things of the like. Emotion gives value to perception, cetegorizing the usefullness of stimuli, and apparently of different strategies. So you use as much emotion as reason while playing chess. (not that it is a necessary condition for play, look at a computer).this is Damasios somatic-marker hypothesis, the claim that emotions actas warning signals to possible negative outcomes, thus making desition making more efficient and accurate. As the neuropsychological patient shows, no somatic marker compromises reasoning ability.<br />Damasio also introduces terms like images, and neural patterns. He explains neurobiologically emotions, feelings, among other things. At the end of the book he speculates on the relationship between emotions and things like the self and consicousness, considerations that would lead to his book &quot;The Feeling of What Happens&quot;. If you read that, you should get this book too. Sanyone interested in neuroscience, psychology,copnsciousness, or even philosophy should read this. I would recomend also reading LeDouxs &quot;Emotional Brain&quot; to see another more detailed view of common issues.	2002-07-02
US	46120996	R1SPZX2YOUK1LW	0262541319	467881258	The Cognitive Neuroscience of Consciousness (Cognition Special Issue)	Books	5	38	38	N	Y	MUST READ.	Along with Neural Correlates of Consciousness, this is the best book on consciousness yet. Nowhere else will you read anything that gets as close at explaining consciousness scientifically. Its main theme is the workspace theory, in neuropychological, cognitive, philosophical and neurobiological terms. Anyone familiar will notice how naturally this theory follows work done in the last 7 years on the science of consciousness. The theory is simple: conscious representations get their content from diverse modules, but this is not enough. The representations are made available globally to other modules. Synchronization attention,and spatial context help carry this out. Parietal, Frontal and probably cingular cortices are essential in this stage. Consciousness is the global availability of information through the distribuited workspace. <br />So in all,there is a consensus as to the adequacy of this theory. in quick review of literature, we have Edelman (2000)(Universe of Consciousness) who proposes a dynamc core distribuited in the thalamocortical system, coheherent activity in a sort of workspace. Singer (2000)(paper in NCOC)who postulates that neuronal assemblies are distribuited and accessible to many modules. Lumer(1998), Rees (1999)(papers in NCOC and journals) who find that consciousness is correlate with activity not only in sensory cortex, but parietal and frontal areas- that is, distribuited activity, in a global workspace. Baars (A cognitive theory of consicousness) of course has argued for global workspace theory for years. Papers by Kjaer (2001), Beck(2001), who also find similar evidence, etc.....<br />The book has 8 papers, every one a jewel. Dehaene reviews the theory and evidence that supports it, as well as placing it in a context of the scientific study of consicousness and its prospects. Driver et al. review neglect syndrome, and how it can serve as evidence for the workspace model, as well as how the model may explain the condition. Knwisher reviewsevidence for the neural correlates of consciousness, and concludes that a form of the workspace model emerges. Merikle et al. discuss some methodological issues on unconsicous perception. Parvizi et al. discuss the neurofunctional role of the reticular activating system and its putative role on consciousness. Jack et al. discuss some methodological issues on instrospective reports, and propose an executive function model that fits in with the worspace model. Finally, Block and Dennett both philosophically analyze the workspace model. This is the Dennett paper that I agree with the most, almost in everything, but he again dismisses qualia as merely dispositions.<br />In short, this book presents the most exiting results on resent research of consicousness, from many prespectives. A consensus as to the neural correlates of consciousness is clearly emerging, and these are indeed exiting times. This book is a must for anyone who has ever wondered about how consciousness &quot;emerges&quot; from the brain. Absolutely great and necessary read.	2002-06-30
US	46120996	R1PPQ8FHGCC36X	0262522101	927740153	The Nature of Consciousness: Philosophical Debates	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Most comprehesive book out there on the topic.	This book is easy to review, and a no-brainer for people interested on consicousness studies. It is quite simply the most complete anthology on the philosophy of consciousness out there. Papers from William James, to Dennett, Searle, Block, Naegel, and over 50 others. Qualia, explanatory gaps, zombies, inverted qualia, some scientific papers, one of the best intoductions to the field out there.....700+ pages of consciousness, consciousness, consciousness....this is essential reading, and having for anyopne interested in philosophy of mind, and scientists of mind too...the fastest way to familiarize with the vast literature on the subject. The table of contents is reason enough to buy this book, and I will not bore you with more.	2002-06-30
US	46120996	R242XXDEIXBSAF	0316180661	358661477	Consciousness Explained	Books	5	16	21	N	N	A monumental attempt.	Dennett is one of the formemost philosophers of our day. This is, arguably, one of the most important books on consciousness written. It has been a bit more than 10 years from its publication, and Dennetts theory is still making an impact. This does not mean that many agree with him, or that he has explained consciousness. But just look at the literature and count how many times he is quoted, refered to, but more often than not, refuted, or merely sayng ´´well, this guy seems to just say that there is no consciousness at all, or something like that´´.<br />The book is a monumental attempt to understand consciousness, not to explain it completely, as Dennett himself admits. He thus starts from the start. There is the cartesian theather background that one has to realize simply does not work. There is no place in the brain where it al comes together into consciousness. Dualism, mysterianism, all that is just philosophical unwanted baggage. Finally, Dennett stresses the need, althoug in a peculiar way, to take phenomenology seriously. So far so good. But then come the philosophical nitty-gritty.<br />The empirical theory of consciousness that Dennett lays out is quite simple, really. There are various drafts of neither stalinesque nor orwellian processes, that compete with each other, played by a virtual machine (program) run in the hardware of the brain. Now usually, here many would begin to attack dennett. Is the mind just a program, like windows on my computer?<BR>Dennett does not say this at all. He just says that the brain processes information and that some of this procesing is consciousness, and that is a much less strong claim. <br />Dennet discusses the effect that happens when one looks at two lights flashing in sucession, close to each other. One sees a light moving from to and fro, changinc collors evem (if the lights are different colors). Now Dennett mantains that there is no fact of the matter on wether one sees the lights as separate, but then interprets the whole thing as a¿one light moving, or if there is a top down effect on perception so that from the beggining one experiences the result. Ths is where the confusing things seem to arrive. Dennett has to discuss qualia, then. This is where he lost most readers, and most potential allies as well. In short, Dennett claims that there are no qualia at all, but simply a group of dispositions in the subject in question. So if someone who cannot see at all, but for some reason (I will avoid mentioning blindsight)responds like everyone else at stimuli, acts towards them, comments on them, etc., well then there is nothing missing. That responding, commenting on, andacting towards, is what qualia is.<br />Dennett thus denies that zombies are possible, because a zombie has no experience, but acts normally in every other way since for Dennett, acting normally in evry way is what qualia is. (Dennett jokingly says that then zombies are possible, scince that is what we are, in the sense described above, of course).<BR>All this is well. But can one really swallow it. I mean, regardless of what Dennett says, and how many times he says that this is no argument, the qualia are still there when I see a rose, and it does not seem like a disposition. Dennett claims that, well then, it seems there are qualia but there are not. How can something that does not exist seem like anything at all to anybody? So qualia, as they seem do not exist, even in the seeming itself, which is needless to say confusing.<br />Dennett discusses many issues, of which qualia is the most debated. I only wanted to let out some thoughts on the matter. His theory of the self is also a bit unsatisfactory, but besides the hard philsophy, Dennet makes a lot of sense, in many things, evolution, phenomenology, language, the denial of the cartesian theather...so this book must be read, pretty much by anyone who has thought about the mind.	2002-06-13
US	46120996	RCODR9D0K2GRD	0316328197	318630148	Schrodinger's Kittens and the Search for Reality: Solving the Quantum Mysteries	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Great book.	John Gribbin is one of the best expositors of science to the general public, in the league of people like Richard Dawkins, or S. Jay Gould. He has written lots of poular science, mainly physics, and every single one of his books will teach you something new. Needless to say, his classic book on quantum physics &quot;in search of schrodinger's cat&quot; was the cornerstone of popular physics books in the 80's. Maybe this book is not quite its analouge in the 90's, but it is still a no-nonsense simple introduction to quantum physics, with mysteries and solutions.<br />The book is quite standard in many respects. It tells the story of Newton, Einstein, Bohr, Bell and everything. He explains (the best discussion found anywhere on)the two slit screen experiment, and uses it as a foundation for his later discussions. But I have to say that Gribbin is probably the most partial writer on the subject I have read yet. Most physicists or popular science writers immediately adhere to a certain quantum physics interpretation, and discard any other posibility, the favourites being Everett's (many world) and the copenhagen interpretation. But Gribbin is rightfully agnostic. He calls iterpretations &quot;myths&quot;, standing in a postitivistic corner arguing that we use them because they work, and this is true for quantum physics in general. It is true, however, that at the end he says he would arbitrarily choose the pilot-wave interpretation. I would too. This way we get all that &quot;spooky action at a distance&quot; and reduction of the wave function by an observer, calling into discussion things like the ontology of mind and consciousness, out through the window. <br />I found one of the most intriguing parts on the book where Gribbin describes experiments that seem to show that it is imposible for a quantum system to evolve when it is being observed all the time (its quantum state being determined constantly by measurement). It seems then that those who answer to the question &quot;is the tree still there when nobody looks?&quot; with a &quot;yes, because God allways looks&quot; are just simply wrong. If God allways looks,there would be no change in the unverse.<br />Gribbin also touches on some deeper mysteries that those brought about by trying to find out what &quot;really&quot; happens in the quantum world. He discussess superstings, albeit briefly, and the problems in unifying relativistic theory with quantum physics, especially in &quot;quantum gravity&quot;. But Gribbin keeps a cold head and does not despair, nor underestimate the issues. Anyone with an interest and a little drive will emerge, after reading this book, with the necesary knowledge of quantum physics for the layman. The mysteries will just not go away magically, though.	2002-04-15
US	46120996	R3P0CHZPD253K2	0130309338	797794816	Philosophy of Mind	Books	2	15	17	N	N	Very bad philosophy.	I have read a lot of books, introductory and advanced, on the philosophy of mind, but I rarely review them. However, this book had some flaws that were just so evident that I felt I had a responsability to comment on them. But of course, I will not just shun the book and leave. Not everything that is flawed is useless. This book, far from being useless, is an adequate introduction to the philosophy of mind. But the author does not have this as his only goal, and also attempts to defend a property dualistic ontology of mind. He is also an emergentist, but here I have few objections. But emergentism itself is not incompatible with materialism, as the author seems to imply sometimes. <br />The book is short, easy to read, and covers the necessary ground for any begginer who wants to learn the generalso of philosophy of mind. There are chapters on the diferent types of dualism, materialism, philosophy of artificial intelligence and on intentionality. The author discusses classic and modern positions in all of these things, and makes it all clear and non-technical. The problem is that everytime he tries to attack some position or other, he simply does not seem to succeed. I mean, even Descartes's substance dualism is defensible form Jacquettes critique! Now to be more specific, I will limit myself to his main argument against materialism, for wich he concludes propery dualism is a better bet at expaining the ontology of mind.<br />The argument is roughly as follows (Pge 20): The mind has intentionallity. The body as such does not. Therefore the mind cannott be fully explained by alluding to purely physical (body) processes. Here the property of being intentional leads one to property dualism, according to Jacquette. Now anyone with any knowledge of philosophy of mind will quickly point out that the 2 premises can be attacked, as can the conclusion even when one accepts the validity of the premises. First, it is not clear why intentionality could not be explained physically. Jacquette begs the question in assuming that this is not possible. John Searle, for example, is a materialist, even though he accepts the importance of intentionality. So to say that the body as such can have no intentionality is begging the same question. And finally, the fact that mind and body might have diferent properties does not necessarily lead one to any kind of dualism, for the differences might be only in virtue of epistemistic access. That is, if one knows something by description instead of by aquaintance, one may believe one of these descriptions has a property that the other does not, even when they refer to the same things.(In fact, this is related to Jacksons knowledge argument, of which Jacquette talks inadequately). To illustrate my points, and to show to what extent Jaquettes discussion is incoherent look at this extract:<br />&quot;conceivably...imput-output simulations of mind, in which physical syntax tokens casually interact with themselves in an apropiate...enviroment, might duplicate the brain's power to produce...intentional thought..&quot; (pge 81).<br />Here the author accepts the posibility that intentionallity might be physically realizable after all! What happened to the intentionality argument?<BR>The author gives no reason of why physicalism might be inadequate to explain the mind fully, and offers the worst defence of property dualism I have read yet. Nothing I have said can be taken to imply that physicalism is true, however.	2002-04-14
US	46120996	RIACCZPO6P0XX	0262540908	761075870	Brainchildren: Essays on Designing Minds (Representation and Mind)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Great philosophy.	This book has some very good papers and ideas, but one has to look a little hard. Those who are familiar with Dennett's more popular books will very likely find themselves quite lost. The ideas in \\"Consciousness Explained\\" or \\"Kinds of Minds\\" can be found, but the core of the book deals with intentionality, or the ideas Dennett laid out in his \\"The Intentional Stance\\". The collection of papers consist of otherwise hard-to find or rare reading, but in my opinion required reading for anyone seriously interested in Dennett's philosophy. There are some papers, however, that are out of context, like reviews or responses to critics, or forewords to other books.<br />The cream can be found in the papers \\"Real Consciousness\\", \\"instead of Qualia\\", \\"Real Patterns\\", \\"Cognitive Science as reverse engeneering\\", \\"Animal Consciousness\\" and his \\"Self-Portrait\\". Dennett lays bare his ideas on consciousness and qualia, and I have to say that his position as regarding qualia is clearly explained, and initially, seems quite plausible. But one still will feel Dennett goes too far in sayng that qualia are just the group of dispositions in the subject, thus denying their \\"qualish\\" quality, the red of redness per se. His paper, \\"Real Patterns\\" is quite simply the best defended and most coherent position on the reality of \\"folk-psichological\\" states, the ontology of things like beliefs, desires, and so on. <br />The papers deal with a multitude of subjects, including animal thought and consciousness, AI philosophy, cognitive science philosophy, and many great contributions to the philosophy of mind. I personally do not favour his positions in most subjects, but I cannot disagree with everything either. Dennett is allready one of the great contemporary philosophers, so it is worth trying to learn about his ideas, and I see no better place to start (or finish) than with this book.	2002-04-12
US	46120996	R94HH3DXT0097	0716727250	177421894	The Quark and the Jaguar: Adventures in the Simple and the Complex	Books	3	25	27	N	N	Nice.	This book is a little strange, and tries to cover a lot of ground without gaining miles. The question is if it is worth it to buy and read. I think it is, if only because of the excellent review of particle physics and the fact that Gell-Mann is one of the smartest men alive. But the book is much more ambitious, what in some cases is actually a good thing. Not in this one, however.<br />The main subject of the book is the study of &quot;complex adaptive systems&quot; carried out in the Santa-Fe Institute. Gell-Mann tries to review the topics studied there, but not because he glorifies the place, or think that it is unique, but because he knows the territory well (He helped found it). So the first section deals with the definitions of complexity, of adaptation, and of a system. There are good explanations of things like Algorithmic information content, and effective complexity, among other things. So far, Gell-Mann adds to the then-ever-popular issue of complexity. Not much can be said that is terribly wrong or innovative so far.<br />In the second section Gell-Mann goes into what he knows best, and it shows. The standard model of particle physics has very rareley been as well explained as in this book. Superstring, a little cosmology and the arrow of time are given space. But in the third section, things start to fall appart. Suddenly Gell-Mann gives inadequate discussions of evolution, useless talks of &quot;memes&quot; and the complex origins of theorizing, superstition and things like that. Economics is swiftly introduced, only to add to the confusion. The last section of the book, is was unecessary and downright strange. (som may object). It dealt with social issues and possible solutions. This part seemed to belong to another book, or writer, altogether.<br />So the book is not a lost case. It is interesting, reads well, and has some good ideas and explanations. But it is by no means what one would normaly expect coming from a Nobel prize winning physicist.	2002-04-11
US	46120996	R2V6NYI5SPHE1E	0415180503	837680020	Brain Mystery Light and Dark: The Rhythm and Harmony of Consciousness	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Srange book.	This is a weird book. I got it because I am intereste din consciousness studies, and in the reviews and summary it seemed to involve some things on scientific theories of consciousness, and brain science as well. But it turned out to be a really strange piece of philosphy. The author tries to put together Mcleans truine brain hypothesis with some Kantian moral philosophy and some PLatonist considerations. I know some Kant and PLato, but unfortunately almost no philosophy of music or aesthethics, and the book goes into these things. I have to say it is really confusing.<br />The book starts with the claim that materialism is true. Then it exposes the truine brain hypothesis, and extends it to explain some human morality. Afterwards there is a brief account of scientific theories of consciousness, involving mainly \\"resonance\\" and self-reference. Theories like Reentry (Edelman) or oscilation (Crick) and even quantum reduction (Penrose) are discussed, but not throughly nor interestingly. The author just points out that some theories involve self-reference, and somehow thinks that that is a key towards understanding the human condition. <br />Later, there appears talk on music and aesthetics. Somehow, the soul exists by symbolically (Kantian sense) aprehending aesthetics and PLatos \\"the good and the just\\". The author holds that this idea of the soul is compatible with materialism, and somehow links religion to aesthetic issues. This is by far the strangest part of the book. It is not clear to me why aesthethics should do all that, but of course one must remember that apparently here aesthethics are viewed with an objective existence, in a Platonian sense. Or maybe not, because there is talk of the neuronal bases of aesthetic experience. I just do not know. Maybe philosphers will like the book, or at any rate understand it better than I did. But it does not add anything of value (in my opinion) to consciousness studies.	2002-04-05
US	46120996	R27KSEN2ZOHFGN	0688172172	960249998	Phantoms in the Brain: Probing the Mysteries of the Human Mind	Books	3	30	39	N	Y	Good, not really deep nor unified.	This is a good popular neurology book, that much is true. But it is not unifed, and it is not very deep. What I mean is that the authors do not present a clear theory of brain function, nor a clear way to bridge the gap of phenomenology and neurology. It also does not talk of very important issues, and concentrates on those in which Ramachandran has worked. This is not necessarlily bad. But truly, you do not learn much about consciousness by reading this book. What you do learn are disconnected neurology facts, theories and cases.<br />By far the best and more original of the explanations given are  those concerned with visual illusions and the phantom-limb phenomenon. Taking the idea that there is a body-matrix genetically mapped in the brain, Ramachandran explains phantom limb pain in a simple and plausible way. The map of the lost limb is taken over by adjacent maps (brain plasticity) and when someone stimulates the thing that is mapped in the second map, there is feeling in the missing limb. In the hand case, it turns out the face is mapped right next to it, in the brain. Ramachandran found that by stimulating the face, he could arouse phantom limb feelings in his patients. HIs experiments with the mirror-box are also really interesting.<br />Ramachandran also explains how the brain &quot;fills-in&quot; information, like in tha case of the blindspot. He also explains many visual illusions. The rest of the book reads like a case study of different sindromes, like Capgras, Neglect,Propagnosia among others. For example Ramachandran describes patients that see cartoons in little soctomas in their blind fields, or people who claim their relatives are not &quot;the originals&quot;. So at the end there is a lot of field discussed, but no semming unification or a grander theory. Ramachandran also touches in controversial issues like &quot;the god part od the brain&quot;, presumably in the limbic or temporal regions.<br />I enjoyed the book, and it was a good read. It isa good overview of some neuropsychology, and it is a fast and easy read. But it is not very original, nor speculative.	2002-04-05
US	46120996	R1TIQZ1S73UXXQ	052143775X	601436272	Superstrings: A Theory of Everything? (Canto)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Good introdution, a bit dated.	This little book is a must for those interested in superstring theory. Those who have read books like \\"the elegant universe\\" should complement with this one. It gives a historical prespective, but unfortunately is a bit dated, given that it was originally published in 1988. String theory moves real fast, and a lot of things viewed as problems in the book are now somewhat clarified.<br />The book starts with the best crash-course I have read of modern physics. In just 60 pages, you are introduced to supersymmetry, relativity theory, quantum mechanics, particle physics, superstrings, and other conceptual issues. The main body of the book however, involves interviews with various physicists concerning superstrung theory. Green, Gross, Witten, Feynmann, Salam, weinberg among others all give their points of view of this putative \\"theory of everything\\". They talk about the structure of the theory, its limitations in experimentation, its main obstacles, and their personal views of what lies in the future for superstrings.<br />Some main issues come up regularily, like the multidimensional aspect of the theory, the fact that there are various diferent superstring theories,  and issues on topology. Unfortunately this was before some very interesting results that clarify some of these issues. For example, Calibi-Yau spaces were not in the spotlight, as they currently are. Also, all of this is pre \\"M-theory\\". That is, the 5 kinds of theory described (E8*E8 for example) are now linked through \\"M-theory\\", so there is no real problem of unification anymore (aty least one could see how it comes together, but this issues are still controversial).Also, current theories sometimes use 11 dimensions, whereas in the book 10 dimensions seemed to be the standard. Holographic principles could also enlighten some of the discussed problems in the book.<br />Another great aspect of the book is that it includes internal critics as well. Richard Feynmann for exaple, does not feel superstring isgoing to save physics, and does not share the same kind of enthusiasm as say, Edward Witten. The main points are the fact that superstring theory is so far from being directly testable (PLank lenght experiments would require 10 light year long particle accelerators!), and other philosophical issues. Of course, there is circunstancial evidence, but some see that superstring theory resembles pseudo-science in not being directly testable. This is certainly an issue.<br />Wether theory of everything or not, superstring theory is here to stay, so one might as well read this book to get a larger scale view of the field, before reading more modern or popular texts.	2002-04-05
US	46120996	RHCCXYOPVYNCQ	0195136969	762118806	An Anatomy of Thought: The Origin and Machinery of the Mind	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Solid.	Tis book is a solid itroduction to neurosciences. It is not prone to controversy, and it sticks to what we know so far. This is why this is a safe &quot;tour&quot; to the machinery of the mind. Two things make this book better than most other popular introductions to the brain. It covers, or tries to, general and specific knowledge of the field- that is, individual experiments and discoveries (Say, Hubel and Weisel on vision, or Treinsman on attention, or Singer and synchronization)as well as overviews of higher and lower faculties. It evens goes into philosophy of mind and somo thoughts on consciousness-although I am sure philosophers would have a piece of Glynn and his discussion of Kripke's identity arguments. (Glynn is a proffesed identity theorist- believes that mind states are LITERALLY identical to brain processes). The second thing is that it just does not start at an arbitrart level, like genes, development, or cellular biology, but sets from the beginning the brain and mind in an evolutionary framework. And a thorough one at that. Glynn uses the first 100-so pages to lay out the hominid evolution story, and it rivals some other lenghty books on that specific subject.<br />The style is easy, and it has a swift pace lacking in many other books on the subject. So the 450 pages are actually welcome- brain science is something to be taken whole or not at all. As I said before, the combination of specific studies with general accounts makes the book complete. You will learn of Alexander Luria's mnemonist, as well as Gazzinaga's split-brain patients, all in the course of explaining the brain. It also goes into historical details, with Santiago Ramon y Cajal and Sherington's &quot;enchanted looms&quot;. There will also be some computer talk, as well as philosphical dicussion, although this may not be Glynns forte. I have to say that the consicousness sections are not very informative, and this is one of the most promising fields of research right now.  <br />So ifyou want to learn about the brain, trhough a popular science book, I would probably recomend this one amond a handful of others. You will not miss any important points, but will be spared of every single detail. I have to say that the sections on vision are some of the best overviews on that subject, short of full works that deal exclusively with it.	2002-04-01
US	46120996	R2UOD0UZCWDEM9	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Physics today is stringy.	Physics today is a very abstract enterprise. But do not blame the physicists. The standar model has been pretty much set from the 70's, and real experimental progress will have to wain until bigger accelerators are built. Physics is Kuhn's paradise, the science of paradigm shifting. Einstein made the universe (almost) consistent with his general and special theories of relativity. Quantum physics explained everything in probabilities, from the smallest (or not?) to the largest. These two theories, relativity and quantum mechanics, are, well, the cornerstone of modern physics (not for long!). They both have enormous support, and in fact, are (at least quantum theory) the mos succesful theory in the history of science. It has been experimentaly proved to an incredible presision. An relativity is probably the most well known theory in physics. The problem is that you cannot have your quantum cake and eat the relativity too. They are, well, incompatible. (Why? well, at small enough levels, quantum interdeminacies wreak havoc in spacetime, and thus, gravity). Enter superstring theory. The savior of physics. Or at least it seems so, and Greene, in his book, acts as he who is going to let the public know why.<br />Greene is a brilliant physicists, a great writer, and his explanations of such strange things as supersymetry and hidden dimensions are clear enough for anyone with an open mind to understand. I mean, before reading this book, you would not even have a clue of how to even imagine a 10 or 11 dimensional universe. But I am getting ahead of myself. Because superstring theory is well, weirder than anything that has come before. But it also has the greatest potential as a theory of everything. Superstring, it turns out, can explain everything (arguably). But it is no small price to pay, to give up on everything that you believed of the universe before. And remember you had to do this also with Einstein and the quantum.<br />It turn out the universe is made up of strings, little vibrating loops, and they are aproximately the Planck lenght. The assumption is that there is nothing in a smaller scale than the string -strings are the fundamental fabric of the universe. Every particle arises from the vibrating patterns of these strings, and thus, mathemathically, the equations unify the four forces (weak, strong, electromagnetic, gravitational) at last. The super, in supersting, is supersymetry, and it all rises clearly from the equations. The theory also requires the universe to be 10 or 11 dimensional. <br />This book is the best expositor to date of all these strange theories. The style is lucid, at times funny, quick paced, and it is very interesting to take a peek into modern physics. And everyone should read this because it is the last stretch in understanding the universe. What Einstein did in the 1900's, supersting theorists will do for this century, and hopefully, for ever more. (Ultimate theory, remember?). The practical people will have a hard time digesting supersting theory. It turns out that the theory is almost imposible to test in principle, given that it all happens at such miniscule scales. But circustancial evidence abounds, as well as aesthetic evidence (yes, it is pretty, so it must be right) and internal consistency. This without mentioning the greatest explanatory power in physical theories. <br />Edward Witten (the Pope of supersting theory) once said that superstring theory is a piece of 21'st century physics that by chance fell on 20'th century physicists. Well, is is now the 21'st century, so let's see what we can do with it.	2002-04-01
US	46120996	R1TNWAQRIYFHX	015100398X	358137661	The Hole in the Universe: How Scientists Peered over the Edge of Emptiness and Found Everything	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Easy, interesting book.	This book is another from the wave of books that popularize theorethical physics, mainly string theory, and cosmology. It does a good job, as good as any other. The book suposedly concentrates on the role &quot;nothing&quot; plays out in the universe. Of course this is tricky buisness, and a definition escapes Cole- &quot;perfect symmetry&quot; is as close as one will get. Of course, the big picture is that there is no such thing as a &quot;nothing&quot;, but maybe there is &quot;nothingness&quot;, or lack of change, supersymetry. But the notion is confusingly refered to as many things, space-time, vacums, subjective limits, and at the end the whole buisiness is rather mixed up. So it could be argued that no new insights, or theories are advanced, and the book is just about a popular account of far-out physics and cosmology.<br />Maybe a little more quantum physics would have been welcome. For example, at a point, the author says something in the lines of the universe being defined by our perceptions, or in other words, raises the old observation problem. Now this should either have been explored, or taken to a logical conclusion: we define &quot;nothing&quot; subjectively. But this seems not to be consistent with the rest of the book, so maybe the author could have explained no-collapse (so no observation problem) interpretations of quantum physics. But string theory takes the spotlight, and here too, one would swiftly notice that &quot;nothing&quot; cannot exist in a universe composed out of strings, scince all is strings, and it is meaningless to assume a &quot;nothing&quot; by definition stringless. But these considerations are left aside to build on the story.<br />But of course, there can be no ending to the story, at least not yet. There are some big problems still to solve in the physics framework, and the author points this out. For example, quantum gravity, the cosmological constant, and the quantum-relativity theory inconsistencies still elude the brightest minds in the planet. But as the author points out, it all points to whatever this &quot;nothing&quot; is, because clearly the interesting &quot;nothing&quot; is something after all.<br />The book is actually pretty complete. It goes from mathemathical notions of &quot;nothing&quot;, to physics, cosmology, particle physics, superstring, some psychology, and builds an informative review of some of the most impressive, and of course, weird, scientific modern theories. If anything, the constant &quot;nothing&quot; puns become anoying after a while. So nothing in the book is quite central. And it seems scientists are about to make some still more incresible discoveries in the coming years. But thats what physics is all about these days. There is nothing to it.	2002-03-26
US	46120996	R1I3CW5VEP4STA	0836232895	232950272	Inside the Brain: Revolutionary Discoveries of How the Mind Works	Books	3	30	30	N	N	Nice, informative little book.	This book raises some very important issues. It is a popular account of some not-so-modern-anymore research in brain plasticity, development and neurochemistry, as well as some genetics. The main points the author wishes to get across are the fact that the brain is molded by the enviroment, that molecular neurobiology is beginnig to use the brain's plasticity to heal it, and that behavior and personality have strong biological bases. All of these points are corroborated, and the book discusses work done by lots of interviewed neuroscienctists. The text is real easy to understand, and has a lot of valuable information in it. It is by a journalist, and reads like a piece of journalism. <BR>The thing I most dislike about these kinds of books is that thay are too optimistic. Yes, you understood right. ONly one side of the debate is presented. And the research discussed is oversimplified to astonishing degrees. I mean, it is not scienctifically responsible to make claims like \\"receptor x is for agressiveness, receptor y for attentiveness, receptor z for arousal\\". Those are gross simplifications. It is simply ridiculous to make such claims. Another thing is that the author fails to mention that almost every research mentioned is contested by some other that failed to get the same results. Genes or receptors for this or that arise every week, are refuted the next week, and brought back to life the next week after that. The field is really promising, but it is also really murky right now.<BR>The discussion on plasticity, new thechniques fighting strokes and Altzheimers, and the importance of enviroment on development are pretty accurate, however. The author does a good job in showing the great impact the change of view from \\"hard-wired\\" to \\"fluid\\" has had in the neurosciences. This is really some of the most iteresting issues, and those that most easily will have an impact on daily life. But the book is by no means scientifically rigorous.	2002-03-24
US	46120996	R33SH8WM5K6BKL	0140230122	590864729	The User Illusion: Cutting Consciousness Down to Size (Penguin Press Science)	Books	3	26	38	N	N	Informative, not about consciousness, and dated.	This book is a bit dated, and not really illuminating for someone interested in consciousness studies or behavioral/brain sciences. The only science that the author discusses that really is about consciousess, is Libet's work. Now, this does not mean that the book itself is not informative. I'm just saying that it really does not explain consciousness, and I doubt it was really meant to. If there is one thing one can get out of the book, concerning consciousness, it is that it has limited capacity, and most processing is unconscious. But this is not really an eye-opening revelation. The book is a great piece of popular science, that is sure enough.<BR>The author gets everything mixed in a blend of cahos, complexity, computability, formal systems, a bit of neuroscience and cognitive science, physics, information theory, and social science speculation. The result is not that interesting, but the journey itself is great. The explanation of information theory is really simple and, well, informative. The chapters on physics and chaos are not really very good, and serve only as steps towards one of the main ideas of the book, namely, that subjectivity is important in an understanding of the physical world. Libets work, dealing with processing time for consciousness, is discussed but not very skillfully. There is so much bits and pieces of diferent subjects in this book, that it is hard ro see how it all comes together.<BR>In the level of style, I have to say I found the book a little anoying. Repetition after repetition of the same idea in different sentences goes on forever. There is hardly a well constructed paragraph in the whole book. One-liners abound, and it makes one want to read the newspaper instead. No great conclusions are made, nor are there hipotheses or predictions put forward, no real science. At the end it seems the author wanted to comvey his awe for consciousness, information theory, and complexity without going into the details. But saying that there ismore to the mind than consciousness is not really new, nor astonishing. And this is apparently all there is to the user illusion.	2002-03-23
US	46120996	R3SHX3LWO8B6IC	0738204366	418687847	The Physics Of Consciousness: The Quantum Mind And The Meaning Of Life	Books	2	22	33	N	N	Bad science, lame speculation.	I disagree with all those who see the beginnig of a scientifically founded religion in quantum theory. Walker's venture into consciousness, from a wuantum physics point of view, is not original, nor justified. It has been argued for years that quantum effects disappear in systems as noisy and hot as the brain. There is also no reason why it would be in principle impossible to explain consciousness in purely neural-functional terms. IT is incredibly imaginative to talk of wuantum jumps and superpositions when theoriwing about the brain, but neural action is not in the least concerned with these effects: and the evidence point to the fact that neural action is all there is to consciousness.<BR>I would like to also point out that it is possible to break down Harris's edifice from a physics angle as well. He basically takes the copenhagen interpretation as a given, without contest. This way, he can use some quantum phenomena as arguments that consciousness is somehow fundamentally related to them. But if one takes a \\"no-collapse\\" interpretation, one can account for quantum mysteries without tlking about an observer, or consciousness for that matter. There is the Everett interpretation, but the \\"pilot-wave\\" interpretation would be my choice.<BR>Finally, if a quantum consciousness theory would turn out to be right, I doubt this would be it. It is not clear to me how consciousness could be explained at such an abstract level, like electrons jumping arround neurons. Maybe something akin to Hammerof's theory, where microtubules are involved, would be much more plausible.<BR>Also, Walker's speculations about God and some cosmic consicousness were not really necessary. They can be dismissed as careless speculation, but also as unfounded claims. I would expect more from a scientist of Walker's ability. The book istelf is a pretty good read. The review of modern physics is adequate, and sometimes there are stimulating points made. His style is also quite enjoyable, and the autobiographic portions of the book are interesting. So one could say that the literature is good, but not the science- nor the theology.	2002-03-22
US	46120996	R2N2TAOZQMW6TV	0907845088	930913458	How to Solve the Mind-body Problem (Journal of Consciousness Studies)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Great book.	In this book, Nick Humphrey, presents his theory of consciousness. Actually, one would do better to call it a theory of qualia. It is a summary-extension of his earlier views, presented clearly in his book 'A History of the Mind'. The paper is ambitiously called &quot;how to solve the mind body problem&quot;. Now, the question in everyone who would like to read this book, is, does Humphrey really solve the mind body problem? Of course not! and as proof, note that only the first 20 pages concern Humphrey's theory, the rest being commentary-critiques, where no real sign of agreement appears. HOwever, there is a much more subtle and by no means less important question to ask: does this book make progress in the mind body problem? Of course it does! Humphrey's theory is a very, very plausible one. Some would say that he just presents an evolutionary 'just-so story' or that he adresses the problem of qualia, and not consciousness itself, but these are not weaknesses but areas of possible expansion, taking the theory as foundation.<BR>Humphrey mantains, rightly, that the problem of qualia is a problem of making the identity 'brain state P= mental state S' look natural. He holds that it is not enough to balance one side of the equation without balancing the other side as well. Not only must we redefine the neural component, but the qualia component as well. Now Humphrey takes a functional aim, however. But it is evident that a functional explanation leads inevitably to the physicalistic explanation, that of the &quot;mind-brain&quot; identity. He discusses the diferences and relationship between perception and sensation, then presents an evolutionary story that will facilitate the making sense of how matter could indeed become conscious.<BR>Humphrey's theory is not without its faults, and the commentators realize this. But it is a good sign when the most serious objection is a philosophical one: could not all of what Humphrey's talks about happen, but without the qualia? Here come the zombies again! Now I must admit that it is true that Humphrey's does not make the puzzle disapear. It is still a mystery how is it that qualia emerges from lifeless, grey, matter. But at lleast, (and this is a great step, if you consider consciousness debates) it is at least possible to see how the puzzle COULD be put together, without falling into mysterianism, nor any kind of dualism. As a theory of qualia, I doubt any others come close. But this is just a small step for man. The giant step will have to waita bit. Consciousness is still not explained, and it is a routine to say this. But it would be false to say that no progress has been done.<BR>This book should be read by anyone interested in the mind body problem, because Humphrey could, with a little bit of luck,be the one to hammer the first nail of the very large coffin of the mind body problem.	2002-03-19
US	46120996	R9SIQDDPOTCVI	0140145346	520408312	The Emperor's New Mind	Books	3	19	32	N	N	Stimulating but unconvincing.	I will be quick in this review.<BR>First, the physics are stimulating, the brain science lacking, the speculation interesting. But the aruments are absolutely and completely flawed. Its not just that quantum effects almost certianly have no effects on consicousness, or cognition for that matter, and the argument implicitly made: \\"quantum is mysterious, consciousness is mysterious, so they are interrelated\\" is ridiculous.<br />It all starts with the church-turing thesis. Any algorithmically computabele process, can be carried out by an universal turing macine (for our purposes, a computer). Now the idea is too figure out if computers can have a mind like a brain has one. Penrose holds that it is not posible, so he asks the right question: \\"is the human mind algorithmically computable?\\". Penrose says \\"no\\", and his reasons are simple: humans can see the truth of godel propositions, and human mathematicians have sudden \\"insights\\" that are, well, supposedly non-computable. The first thing one can do, is, well, hold that in fact the human mind is indeed computable. The truth is that this is a pretty fair bet. Just look at the neural-network progress made in PDP.  Actually it is on Penrose to prove us that the essentials of mind and consciousness (not godel propositions)are non-computable. But at the end, Penrose seems to beg the question. <br />Now the Godel argument is a little bit more straightforward, but wrong nontheless. If anything, Penrose argues that a computer could not do certain kinds of math, not that they couldnt have a mind . I doubt knowledge of Godel propositions add a mind to a system. But even if we agree with the claims that the mind can do certain things non-computably, it does not follow that consciousness is one of these (remember at the end the book is about consciousness). Now quantum processes are certainly non-computable, so Pernose's claim is that consciousness arises from quantum processes. The problem is that none of this follows from any other discussion before! The quantum is only one non-computable process that could exist in the brain. Also,remember that quantum effects are probably inexistent in such a noisy and hot system like the brain. One even can doubt Penroses claim that there exists mathemathical insight of any kind not explainable in some other way than the quantum. Hammeroff and Nancy Wolf are much better quantum-consciousness theorists, and this review still applies to an extent to Penrose's Shadows of the Mind. I would argue quantum-consciousness is still considered as a real option because it is popular outside the academia. This book was a best seller. But on real scientific terms, it is a no starter. I'm sure some philosophers and physicists might embrace Peroses attempts, but there are still scientists and philosophers that deny the theory of evolution. <BR>It is a good read, and everyone serious in consciousness studies should try to read it, if only for historical reasons. This book is probably a popular science classic allready.	2002-03-15
US	46120996	R21ZFSCUDVZLZ6	0520224868	616964814	The Mind's Past	Books	3	8	9	N	N	good.	Gazzaniga argues succesfully that the brain, and therefore the mind, is a product of evolution and to an extent genetic determinism. His descriptions of the developing brain are compelling. The book is overall a review, from Gazzanigas point of view, of cognitive neurosciences. Few other people could be better qualified. Gazzaniga is the editor of the New Cognitive Neurosciences, arguably the best and most complete collection on the subject. Insight after insight follow from his quick and witty prose. This is an informative and easy book, that anyone interested in neuroscience should enjoy. Maybe some things could have been given much more space, but Gazzaniga sticks with what he knows best, like, for example, split-brain patients.<BR>  <BR>If I would have a complaint it would be on his poor treatment of consciousness. The study of consciousness is probably the most promising and difficult, and some would say the only true mystery left in the neurosciences. Gazzaniga presents a left-hemisphere interpreter theory, but as far as I can see, that is a theory of reportability and organization of conscious experience, not consciousness itself. It seems that what compells Gazzaniga in this point is the fact that language is, generally, a left hemispher function, and a presuposition that language is essential for consciousness. This is far from being established, and in fact, I believe evidence points to the possiblity of consciousness without language. Consider a monkey that has working memory, adequate behavior, self recognition in a mirror, and who some use to study binocular rivalry. Even much more critically, consider an aphasic or a deaf-mute.	2002-03-15
US	46120996	R4ILJ609EEHQD	0262082497	129512891	Toward a Science of Consciousness: The First Tucson Discussions and Debates (Complex Adaptive Systems)	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Great collection.	This book is a landmark in consciousness studies. If anyone doubts that consciousness studies are multidiciplinary almost by definition, let him read this book. There is a little bit of everything for everyone. Quantum physics, neurology, cognitive science, psychology, plain out parapsychology. One cannot agree with everything one reads, but as a survey of the field as it stood in the 90's this is a jewel. A must for people interested in the study of consciousness, scientific or otherwise. I generalize these comments to the other 2 books, Towards a Science of Consciouness 2 and 3. This one is the most complete, however, and one can do without them.	2002-03-15
US	46120996	R21WZ37YLET58I	0465014232	622970316	The Mysterious Flame: Conscious Minds in a Material World	Books	3	8	19	N	N	Philosophy, Philosophy.	It is hard to take seriously every philosophical theory of consciousness. People speak of zombies, Godel, the quantum, language as the crucial ingredient, the unexistence of qualia, plain old dualism....and cognitive limitatons. Now there are grounds for argument in some of those proposals, but mysterianism (McGinn's position) is not one of them. To put it one way, Positivism would consider it a meaningles statement. I cetianly think everyone should at least be informed about philosophical positions of consciousness, maybe even discuss them, but the problem will be settled at the laboratory. One thinks if this book actually deals with the problem of consciousness or merely gives up on it. <BR>     Now my position is straightforward. Cognitive limitations are empirically decided upon. That is, there is no way to know a prioiri that humans cannot solve the problem of consciousness because of a cognitive limitation. Cognitive limitations should be called upon with caution. I do not see a good reason why the problem of consciousness should be included in the list of unknowable things yet. True, it seems incredible puzzling, mysterious even, but as I said, nobody has shown that it is intractable with a non ad hoc argument. We are not armadillos. If everything else fails, maybe we can give McGinn a call, but there is still a century or so comming of scientific investigation of consciousness.<BR>Now all of this concerns McGinns position, but the book does not only expose it and then ends. A lot of good points are made in the process, there is good philosophy of mind and ontological discussions. It is readable, and consciousness students should enjoy it. I recommend it, but not as a book that explains anything, but one that advances arguments in philosophical terms and no more.	2002-03-14
US	46120996	R1HQR5QDEPNO1Q	0674005597	200838219	Hemispheric Asymmetry: What's Right and What's Left (Perspectives in Cognitive Neuroscience)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Great and timely edition.	This book originally apeared in the prespectives in cognitive neuroscience series in 1993, and is the best introduction and review into the subject of hemispheric asymmetry. My earlier concerns were that it was a bit dated, but it is a cornerstone in the field nevertheless.<br />Hellige points out that every model of hemispheric asymmetry will have to deal with five main points: The cognitive differences between individuals, general computation diferences between hemispheres, the view of the brain as an integrated unit, the development and evolution of hemispheric asymmetry and the fact that there is asymmetry in other species as well.<br />The book presents extensive data and studies that illuminate aspects of all of these points, and much more. Speculation is reserved for evolutionary discussions, but the author makes sure to present only hard evidence, and to warn the reader when there is controversy. It is not very technical, and for that it is a better exposition of such a complex subject.<br />  Now the best parts of the book are when the author sets out to undermine (still current) popular beliefs about hemispheric asymmetry. There is no simple way to say that there are right or left brained people. This is a gross simplifiation of the facts. For example, Hellige notes that since every task uses multicomponent processing and modules, and since it regullarily activate distribuited locations of both hemisphers, there is no clear division within tasks of hemisphers (perhaps with the exeption of language). Sure, there is metacontrol, but that is another interesting subject. There is also no single dichtonomy between modes of processing of diferent hemisphers. Sayng that left is analytic and linguistic and right visuospatial is another gross simplification. Computation styles vary between tasks themselves. Finally, it is also not the case that there only exists hemispheric asymmetry in humans because of language and tool use. There is evidence for it in rats, birds, old world monkeys, among other species.<br />  This is a great book from a great series, very informative, direct, uncontroversial, as well as a good read. Anyone interested in neurosciences at all should enjoy it. IT is also conforting to see hard science taking the spotlight and not cheap self help psychology. Maybe it is my left brain speaking.	2002-03-14
US	46120996	R11TLP4RHND6TS	0940322064	166402917	The Mystery of Consciousness	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good introduction to consciousness studies.	Searle has proposed his own theory of consciousness elsewhere. But this book is a great book because it reviews the work of the most important (arguably) theorists on consciousness studies, an inherently interdisiplinary field (2 philosophers, a physcicists, 2 neuroscientist and a psychologist). First he reviews and critiques Gerald Edelmans theory. He does an adequate job, but as all philospher do, find these first attempts towards an explanation wanting. This is a relatively easy introduction to Edelman's early theories, and from a philosophical standpoint it is valuable.<BR>     He also discusses Francis Crick's model. He also does a good job in exposition, but a great job in critique. Admitedly, the 40 hertz theory is quite weak, and lately has fallen out of favour in the race for consciouness. But Searle lights up when it comes to attacking fellow philosophers. Dennett and Chalmers are bombarded with critiques, although I do think he does understand their positions. The replies are replied and the debate grows more and more interesting. This is philosophers game so no conclusions, but more questions, arise. He finally discusse Penrose's theory, and mercilesly (rightly, I think) critiques it. The only strong argument in Penroses model- Godelitis- is found inconclusive. Fewer people in the academia each year consider quantum consciousness as a serious candidate. Finally, he gives space to an often ignored theory -that of David Rosenthals. Although obscure, Rosenthals ideas are stimulating.<BR>     Overall, this is one of the best philosphically oriented introductions to consciousness studies. Now some would be uneasy with Searles own views, and I would agree. His biological naturalism seems to imply that only biological matter can be conscious, a weird view from a professed materialist. I have allways thought that to be materialist implies being a functionalist. If everything physically does the same thing as some other thing, the results should be the same, unless you call an extra non physical variable. The chinese room argument does shed light on some important issues, and intentionality is really important. But Searle is by no means holding a clearly defined position.<BR>As for other reviewers, it is easy to see how to hold irreducibility without dualism (cognitive limitations, fundamental laws, too much physical complexity, emergentism, etc...) and it is irrelevant wether somethig is algorithmic or not for consciousness in real or simulated processes. See the Church thesis for one. One reviewer stated that scince consciousness is first person and matter third person then materialistic accouts are &quot;futile&quot;. This is plain old stupid. First or third person points of view concern epistemistic access not ontology or metaphysics.	2002-03-13
US	46120996	R374ZCG8MR1FSC	0465075525	900576876	Searching For Memory: The Brain, The Mind, And The Past	Books	4	25	30	N	N	Cognitive psychology of memory	this is the best review of the cognitive psychology of memory, by one of the leading experts in the field. I personally did not enjoy the artistic aspest of the book, but many say it was complementing. Now there are much better cognitive neuroscience books on memory -Kandel and Squires books, Steven Roses, among others- but as for the psychological aspects, this book stands above all others. At times it reads too much like a collection of case studies, but few would deny that lesion studies have contribuited a lot to an understanding of the brain/mind.<BR>Most of the memory field is covered: recogntion vs. recall, implicit vs. explicit, episodic vs. procedural, short -long term, working memory, genral,emotional, semantic, etc..... but there is also a welcome and thorough discussion of false and recovered memories. In no other field can one see better the imediateimpact that cognitive psychology of memory has on legal and social issues. Schacter effectively explains everything we know about the phenomenon. As for the other themes, adequate and sufficient reviews are given. I personally would have liked a bit more of neuroscience, but it is a great read nontheless. There is also not much mention of the relationship between memory and other higher cognitive processes, like consciousness (a good place for speculation) or attention. But Schacter sticks to what is known, and does it well.<BR>AS an introduction to any aspect of memory studies, few texts are better than this one. But I would tell anyone interested to also read other Schacter books, as well as more pure psychology and neurological texts on the subject. (see Seven Sins of Memory by the same author, Kandel and Squires Memory:from Minds to Molecules and Roses The Making of Memory among others).	2002-03-13
US	46120996	R3MGVN8HHQ4VNS	0195117891	220016192	The Conscious Mind: In Search of a Fundamental Theory (Philosophy of Mind)	Books	4	28	39	N	Y	amazing framework, weak support.	Chalmers is a philosopher that has contributed greatly to the debate of consciousness. He introduced the \\"hard problem-easy problem\\" distinction, has written many papers and edited collections, has a great web-page, and seems to know everything about the literature. This book is his full-lenght exposition of his ideas on consciousness. Chalmers is a declared property dualist (it is not terribly important to know the distinction between property or substance or emergent dualists. suffice to say that they hold that not all mental truths are implied by all the physical truths). His view is, however, not anti-scientific. He claims that indeed we can correlate consciousness with cognitive and neuronal architectures. He also holds a kind of functionalism. His attacks concentrate, however on qualia. So Chalmers distinguishes between the phenomenal aspect of consicousness, and its cognitive aspect, claiming that the former is not logically supervenient on the physical.<br />He has two main arguments for this position, the knowledge argument (knowing everything about physical stuff leaves  the possibility of not knowing qualia, so qualia are not physical) and the conceivability argument. Chalmers concentrates on this last one, and it is arguably his strongest argument. It consists of the possibility to conceive of a logically possible world where there are exact, particle-for-particle replicas of us, but who have no qualia (zombies). He aknowledges than in the actual world, this is not possible, but logically the notion is sound, and therefore possible. Therefore qualia are not implied by, supervinient on, the physical.From here Chalmers tries toexplain consciousness and qualia in terms of some notion of \\"information\\" to bridge the physical to the qualia, and speculates, in my opinion wildly, on epiphenomenalism (this view possibly forced in by the zombie possibility) and panspychism.<br />Chalmers theory is the most impresive dualistic framework out there. But I do not think his arguments hold. The knowledge argument can be attacked from various points. One can hold that knowledge of qualia is knowledge of a physical fact in a different cognitive access mode. Or that there is no knowledge of qualia facts, but of new abilities. OR that the knowledge aquires is of a fine-grained mode of individuation mode that leaves materialism unscratched. The Zombie argument, is, I think, mush more interesting. We could attack it from functionalistic and information points of view (this last one probably inadequate, considering Chalmers speculations).<br />If functionalism is true, then the material of what a system is made of is irrelevant to its ability to cause consciousness. If so, and qualia are not-supervenient on the physical and therefore have a nonphysical substrate, one can conceive of a world identical to that one, where the qualia are caused by a purely physical system replacing the nonphysical substrate and qualia remains unchanged. Therefore, in any possible world exactly physically as ours, everyone must have the same qualia, and so, zombies as defined are in fact not possible.<br />The first objection that comes to mind is this one: why would Chalmers ability of conceiving something determine its metaphysical possibility? Does conceivability imply possibility? I do not think it does. Consider the example of a XIX century vitalist, who can conceive of a world physically identical, but where animals, say, are not alive. He concludes that life is a nonphysical phenomenon. He was wrong, but because he did not know about modern genetics, molecular biology, etc. Chalmers knows this objection, but claims it is different from consciousness, because whereas life is a functional process (say, reproduction, feeding, etc.) qualia is not. But my objection would be: does the concepts utilized on the zombie possibility warant the distinction, or the arguments conclusion? I doubt it. For consider the concepts of \\"functional\\", \\"consciousness\\", \\"qualia\\", \\"physical\\", all of which are vague, to say the least. This was exactly the vitalist problem. His concepts of life, reproduction, biology, etc.. were incomplete, or flawed. So if the concepts in the zombie case are re-conceptualized, or informed with new developments in science, there is no guarantee that either the nonfunctionality of qualia, nor the arguments validity, as Chalmers states them, will hold.	2002-03-13
US	46120996	RNXFH472CK9DK	0262531429	348088082	The Engine of Reason, The Seat of the Soul: A Philosophical Journey into the Brain	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	The connectionist dream	This book is the hallmark of the connectionist dream -the belief that all aspects of mind, brain and consciousness can be explained by calling up neural network models-. Now the basic premise behind all this I will not contest. The brain is a large parallel distribuited processing network of neurons. But there is another big step from this to the statement that everything the mind is is a vector coding of a neural network. This is far too siplistic. Churchland of course realizes this, but continues to talk of connectionist models like neurosciences messiah.<BR>     This is perhaps only one aspect of Churchlands book, however. Overall, the book attempts to reconcile philosophy of mind with neuroscience, and it succeeds to an extent. In many parts the discussion falls into vector coding talk, but in many others it stellarily accounts for deep problems. It is a good introducion to neuroscience, neural networks and philosophy. Churchland does not present his own strong theories, but he does well in staying away from controversy. The best part of the book is in my opinion, the attempt to build a framework of the impacts neuroscience has in social and philosophical domains. This is not done often enough, and if it is, rarely with such lucidity and clarity.<BR>     Now I would have ceritanly liked much more speculation when it commes to consciousness, given the Churchland's contribuition to the literature. But he refrains from this and merely describes some other models, like Llinas thalamic oscillations, and is content in stating that it is at leas possible to see what an explanation for consciousness would look like from a neuroscience context.<BR>     The book is a grat read, and students of philosophy, neuroscience and cognitive science should enjoy it.	2002-03-13
US	46120996	R3JGKTRDZUTE4O	0465073514	585974657	Kinds Of Minds: Toward An Understanding Of Consciousness (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Consciousness still not explained	Dennett makes excellent points throughout this little book, especially from an evolutionary standpoint. But at the end, it appears that Dennett holds that nothing is a mind untill someone adds language, as if a brain was kool-aid and language water. Things are not so simple. For example, Dennett tries to conclude that since minds are made up of what he calls little \\"machines\\" then a mind is just a machine until proven otherwise. His proof seems to be language. But I fail to see if that is the logical conclusion from his early arguments. Isn't language at the end also made up of \\"machines\\"? Dennett does not only use an emergent theory in support of his conclusions, but I doubt that would make a difference.<BR>So at the end, humans are conscious because of language and direct evidence for individuals, but animals are not because thay do not have language and we cannot directly see what is like to bo one. There are times in the book where Dennett even puts into question wether deaf-mutes would really have a true human mind! There is a trend among theorists that holds that language tranforms inert matter into conscious matter. Now, truly, language separates human consicousness from other kinds of minds, but it does not follow that language is a necesary condition for consciousness itself. Dennett, who is a strong A.I supporter, should know this. I mean, does a computer has to have language to be conscious? Or for that matter is language then also a sufficient condition for consciousness?<BR>Dennett also fails to discuss many important things that should be considered when talking about animal minds- language studies in higher primates, working memory in animals, etc...- Granted, these are all inconclusive, but should not be ignored. I think Dennets view of consciousness is really strange and confused...He once denied the existence of qualia! But this is no argument. I can confidently say that one does not emerge knowing much about minds after readind this book.	2002-03-13
US	46120996	RCBB8X8V0ILLZ	0465073514	585974657	Kinds Of Minds: Toward An Understanding Of Consciousness (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Consciousness still not explained	Dennett makes excellent points throughout this little book, especially from an evolutionary standpoint. But at the end, it appears that Dennett holds that nothing is a mind untill someone adds language, as if a brain was kool-aid and language water. Things are not so simple. For example, Dennett tries to conclude that since minds are made up of what he calls little &quot;machines&quot; then a mind is just a machine until proven otherwise. His proof seems to be language. But I fail to see if that is the logical conclusion from his early arguments. Isn't language at the end also made up of &quot;machines&quot;? Dennett does not only use an emergent theory in support of his conclusions, but I doubt that would make a difference.<BR>So at the end, humans are conscious because of language and direct evidence for individuals, but animals are not because thay do not have language and we cannot directly see what is like to bo one. There are times in the book where Dennett even puts into question wether deaf-mutes would really have a trult human mind! There is a trend among theorists that holds that language tranforms inert matter into conscious matter. Now, truly, language separates human consicousness from other kinds of minds, but it does not follow that language is a necesary condition for consciousness itself. Dennett, who is a strong A.I supporter, should know this. I mean, does a computer has to have language to be conscious? Or for that matter is language then also a sufficient condition for consciousness?<BR>Dennett also fails to discuss many important things that should be considered when talking about animal minds- language studies in higher primates, working memory in animals, etc...- Granted, these are all inconclusive, but should not be ignored. I think Dennets view of consciousness is really strange and confused...He once denied the existence of qualia! But this is no argument. I can confidently say that one does not emerge knowing much about minds after readind this book.	2002-03-13
US	46120996	R2QWCYIBAE1JI6	0674052684	50771166	Attentional Processing: The Brain's Art of Mindfulness (PERSPECTIVES ON COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	the best book on attention to date.	This book combines neurology, congnitive psychology, and cognitive science, with a bit of philosophy, to efectively explain how the brain attends. LaBerge starts with conceptual issues, and describes experiments on attention that reveal the structure of preparatory and selective attention. Attention, LaBerge notes, can be implemented by various algorithms. A stimulus can be enhanced, its surround (and therefore distractors) can be inhibited, or bothe can take place at the same time. He also makes the useful distinction between preparation and expectation. Expectation involves working memory while preparation involves actual activity in cortical sites that will code for a expected stimulus. After this is done, he presents evidence of modulation by attention in cortical activity. Finally, he shows how two subcortical structures, more importantly the thalamus, implements tha algorithms for attention. The thalamus then acts as a filter, enhancing the processing of a target, so that it can be attended to. This, is an oversimplification, however. LaBerge considers various cortical areas and their relevance for attention, and concludes that attention emerges form distribuited activity in the brain, and cannot be centered to one mechanism only. <BR>    The theory does of conurse require some polishing. Also, the main evidence in favour of his attentional mode in the book, comes from a modeling study. More positive evidence would be required, but I'm certain the relevant work has been done science the book was published. Imaging studies, as well as recording studies give good reason to accept the model.	2002-03-02
US	46120996	R2SHX3Z07TK6SP	0714530530	345406765	The Secret Of Consciousness (How the Brain Tells 'The Story of Me')	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Amazingly insightful	I would say that more than a scientific theory, this is a pseudoscientific thought experiment. But do not let this fool you, because insight after insight rises from this text to seriously consider every word as fact. This is a brilliant piece of theorizing, almost all of it product of careful instrospection. It is interesting to note how some of the points made in the book actually echoe scientific views on consciousness : for example, there is talk of a dynamic core of mental information, like Gerald Edelmans dynamic core. There is the twin data stream theory proposing two streams of informaion comming together to form consciousness, just like Stephen Koysslin's idea of merging of higher and lower order streams of activity for the same purpose. The whole idea of memory and present imput intermingling to form consciousness is the basic postulate of John Taylors relational model. Finally, there is talk of a verbal commentary, Larry Weiscrantz's candidate for a theory of consciousness.<br />One must also admit that, even when there is no actual direct evidence in favour of Adelmans theory, it is common sensical, and has some explanatory power. If nothing else, the theory of dreaming presented is quite interesting andd plausible. Memory consolidation has always been a candidate for a function of dreaming.<BR>Of course there is also room for critique. Adelman, like some others, makes the mistake of putting language at an almost supernatural position in regards to its effect on consciousness. NObody denies that language expands consciousness, but Adelman goes on to say that there is no knowledge at all without consciousness, and that nonverbal animals cannot even distinguish between themselves and the enviroment. Language is one of the things that makes us human and separates us from other species, but it is not a gift from the gods. Working memory, and primitive forms of reasoning do exist in nonhuman species. After all,what about severe aphasics? I would not think they are unconscious.	2002-02-10
US	46120996	R3LRNPKOXBDJZV	0761967753	719671375	Understanding Consciousness: Its Function and Brain Processes	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Expected more.	I expected much more from this book. I have no great objections in that consciousness is the representation of the internal and external world, as well as of the self. But from this it does not follow that we will understand consciousness by studying sensory processing alone. Many studies show that sensory activity, and sensory representations, are necesary but not sufficient for consciousness. Sommerof confuses the representation from the represented. There are many pieces of evidence favoring distribuited interacion between many brain regions as a necesary condition for consciousness. This deals with multicortical-region interactions, and this is not just a matter of representing the external, internal world. It is about how these representationas arise from distribuited brain activity.<BR>Sommerof also claims qualia is just the &quot;effects&quot; of the representations on the organism. Again, I will not contest this claim, but point out its vagueness. I do not think this volume actually helps you understand consciousness, although the ideas and simplicity of the model makes it attractive. It is not a theoretical giant step nor anything, but it is not a bad read either. I recomend it, but not because it is the final word on consciousness, but because many good points are made throughout the laying out of sommerofs model.	2002-02-01
US	46120996	R20GPLFCPJRSAA	0195102657	404266485	In the Theater of Consciousness: The Workspace of the Mind	Books	4	14	16	N	Y	Seminal work.	I think it is fair to say that Baar's global workspace model is the most influential cognitive model of consciousness out there. The theoretical work is simply outstanding. Few would today contest the main idea behind the model -that the function of consciousness is to broadcast information to separate functional modules all arround the brain-. Some recent papers by Baars, available on line, summarize all the emirical evidence that has appeared the last decade in favour of the model. Baars is currently at the neurosciences institute, headed by Gerald Edelman, and it is no surprise his latest views seem to include reentrant connectivity and Edelman and Tononis concept of complexity. However, although this is clearly a step forward, it is far from being a THE answer consciousness studies is looking for. Baars himself sees a gap between the cognitive model and the neurophysiological machanisms involved. He has presented the ERTAS model, but it is not clear how it has stood to recent neuroscience. I'm not saying i'ts been falsified, but it has been deprived of supremacy. However, the global workspace is still a brilliant contribution to the study of consciousness. Some philosophical nuances are still roaming, however. There is no qualia in the theather, and it is not clear how the audience could be conscious..how would they enjoy the show?.	2002-02-01
US	46120996	R2C3160V70ZV2U	0880642629	362233951	Going Inside: A Tour Round a Single Moment of Consciousness	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good popular work.	This is an overview of consciousnes studies. It is a good one at that. The intermingling of chaos, complexity, dynamics, a lot of neurophysiological evidence, among other things, is enlightning. But McCrone is a science writer, and some would ask him to leave the theorizing to the scientists. The last 4 chapters, his attempts as actually building a model for consciousness, are interesting, but not very direct at pointing out how the brain can manage to come up with anything resembling consciousness. The qualia issue dodged, the book explains many things, like how some brain structures set the boundaries and mode of processing of the brain. But all rests on the authors interpretation of the work of others(not that this is bad). At the end, I think, thee best thing to get out of McCrones discussion is his definition off consciousness : &quot;the view we put into a moment&quot;. He correclty points out that we must look at all the complexity in consciousness, while taking in consideration all the processing involved. Not just have a good view once in the top of the mountain, but to consider the whole rocky enterprise of the climb.	2002-02-01
US	46120996	R3566XDFC9U62G	0716750783	845906654	Consciousness ("Scientific American" Library)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good.	I personally like Hobson's work on consciousness. In this volume, he expands, although not greatly, on his earlier views on the matter. (laid out on &quot;The chemistry of conscious states&quot;)<BR>The core model is the AIM model, standing for activation, internal or external information, and neuromodulation. In his tridimencional space model, he considers these factors to be able to explain everything about consciousness. This is where I start disagreeing. It is true neuromodulators influence consciousness, but they are not the neural correlates of consciousness. That is, they alter modes of processing, but are not the process itself. Hobson's strong points are in the area of dream research. Dream as delirium is a very convincing piece of theorizing. The phenomenology of dreaming and its relationship to brain waves and the AIM model is clear enough, but not the same can be said of consciousness. I would posit that the AIM model is more of a model of altered states of consciousness that consciousness per se. However, it is also true that theories of consciousness that ignore the powerful influences of neuromodulation must be neceseraly incomplete. This is a must read for anyone in the scientific debate of consciousness, because amongst the pages of this book great framework-type-knowledge arises.	2002-02-01
US	46120996	ROZ1LYJXQ04TY	0907845053	821387810	Conscious Experience	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Philosophy and consciousness.	This book, probably together with &quot;the nature of consciousness&quot; is the best collection of papers on consciousness from a philosophical point of view. The introduction itself is worth the buy. Countless great contributions appear, dealing with every espect of the current debate on consciousness. Although dating from 1995, it is still an amazing introducion to consciousness and philosophy. I will not describe all papers, and indeed they are not all absolutely great, and of course it would be impossible to agree to all of them. But some papers, like Panpineaus on the anthipathetic fallacy, Metzingers on the philosophy of temporal binding, or Levines or Chalmers on qualia, are true jewels. The last section has some really interesting more scientifically inclined theorists presenting their models of consciousness. But just the variation and superstar authors makes tha whole attempt valuable and complete.<BR>I cannot do anything else but to repeat myself and say that this is the best introduction tho the philosophical part of the problem of consciousness.<BR>If I would object to anything, it would be of course of the fact that there are not many papers on the science of consciousness. I mean, there are some scientific debates that make grat philosophy. Consider blindsight, split brain cases, neglect, masking, among many other things. It is quite easy to philosophize about these issues, and that would have complemented the book nicely. Metzinger does sometning similar by discussing temporal binding, and empirical conjecture, from a philosophical prespective. Also, some aspects could have received better treatment, by including opposite views.	2002-01-31
US	46120996	R5QSB06R1LWPC	0262122332	707224356	I of the Vortex: From Neurons to Self	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Great.	Llinas is of course, a famous neuroscientist, and his views on consciousness in the 90's took the side of the 40 hertz gamma band ocillations in the thalamocortical system. This book reviews his views in almost all aspects of neuroscience. His evolutionary insights, and his discussion of how important action and motor mechanisms are for cognition are truly in accord with recent study in &quot;embodied cognition&quot;. As for consciousness itself, we are left with a narrow expansion of his earlier views. Ocillatory behavior on neurons is still the key in Llinas framework, and the thalamus still has its central role, as are his insights on wakefulness and sleep. As for originallity,one can trace his views on the origin of the self in Damasio's writings, his view on qualia in Rodney Cotteril's, and ocillatory ideas on Crick (but Llinas got there before), Singer, Von-Mandlesburg, etc.. All in all, however, the book is a must read for anyone intersested in the neurosciences and consciousness, and is a valuable contribution to the theorist enterprise that has few who venture into an integration of top- down and bottom-up approaches. LLinas is to be praised for his brilliant career, and his valuable contributions to the field, including this volume.	2002-01-31
US	46120996	R1CTJKKQBMYTL4	155619188X	488728379	Finding Consciousness in the Brain: A Neurocognitive Approach (Advances in Consciousness Research)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	great contribution	These papers were written sometime between 1995-96, but they are revised in 2000, so the information is still up to date. This is a wonderful contribuition to consciousness studies. It is the best book out of the series &quot;advances in consciousness research&quot; so far. The papers adress, not general theories of consciousness, like Edelman's or Damasio's, but more subtle aspects of the whole enterprise. For example, the first section adresses the study of covert processing and its relationship to consciousness, as well as a review of Baron-Cohens theory of autism -relevant for the understanding of consciousness of the mental. The second section deals with visual consciousness, intersensory integration and the separation in the visual system of not &quot;what&quot; and &quot;where&quot; pathways, but &quot;what&quot; and &quot;how to act on it&quot;. Clearly this section deals with the contents of consciousness, nit consciousness itself. The third section deals with emotion, attention, arousal and things of the like, obviously essential for a complete framework for the study of consciousness. Finally, the last section deals with the very important question of the function and evolution of consciousness.<BR>     This volume, without actually presenting a neuronal theory of consciousness, builds a platform suitable to support such an enterprise. The orignial papers deal with very important research and ideas. This is the kind of books that really help advance the understanding of consciousness as arising from the enchanted loom that is the brain.	2002-01-31
US	46120996	R7SFO1ZM7WD4P	0198523017	767432641	Consciousness Lost and Found: A Neuropsychological Exploration	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good book, inconclusive evidence and theory.	I find the evidence inconclusive because, for example, the main thrust of the arguments for the localization of consciousness, experiments made with blindsight patient G.Y, have been repeated and delivered diferent results. One of these, by Erick Lumer, concludes that visual consciousness for motion correlates with activity only in the area for movement, MT. But Weiskrantz experiment showed that there was also activation in dorsolateral PFC. What is the deal? Yes, there is the decortication argument, but that is also debatable. There are binocular rivalry experiments that support Weiscrantz case, though. <BR>But inconclusive does not mean wrrong or uninteresting. The books philosophical argument, however, is not inconclusive. It is bizarre. Why would being able to comment make you conscious? I see no reason, and Weiscrantz gives no good one. I think it is safer to assume that one can comment because one is consicous. Also, the books position and David Rosenthals may not be as similar as it is stated. A second-order thought is not just a commentary. (I'm not a proponent of higher order thought theories, but still). The highpoints of the book are the summaries of what is known about covert processing, blinsight and amnesia. These are worth the buy in their own right. He also convinsingly argues against epiphenomenalism. It is obvious that blinsight patients do not fare well without conscious vision, and this is enough to show an evolutionary adaptive value. The book is great,notwithstanding my critique, and the hypothesis it proposes is testable, has lead to further research, and even if it doesn't hold up, it will be because it rests on a philosophical argument and nothing else.	2002-01-26
US	46120996	RKNI5RVJK6RK7	0198503245	515671956	The Evolution of Consciousness	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Good read, inconsistent conclusions.	The author holds the view that only systems or organisms with language can be conscious. This is just the beggining of where I think he is mistaken. He analyzes various studies supporting some kind of animal cognition and consciousness, but dismises it all as explainable by some kind of unconscious conditioning or learning. He also proposes a cortex-hippocampus system, that gives humans, the only conscious being in his view, his superiority over animals. Now lets see how we can critique these views:<br />There is no evidence of a special cortico-hippocampal system in humans, difering substancially, neurochemichaly or otherwise, from say, chimpanzees, higher apes, or large brained mammals.<br />The author view implies that aphasics, those with hippocampal lesions, autistic children, and humans without language should be unconcious. This is clearly not the case. And for that matter, hippocampal lesioned humans can speak.<br />Animals that can perfom complicated working memory tasks, or attentional tasks,or self-recognition tests, that in humans require consciousness, are performed by &quot;unconscious learners&quot; with ease.<BR>Pre-linguistic infants are also out of the consciousness elitism.<br />Also, humans before language evolved were all unconscious, wich dosnt seem probable, because of the gradual evolutiion of cortical and whole brain organization.<br />Now, just because I find the authors view flawed, it does not mean it is a bad book. Quite the countrary, it is exiting, interesting, and full of insight. I recomend it to all those interested in consciousness studies, especially in the evolution of consciousness, and animal intelligence. There are a bunch of points that I agree with too, so maybe my review was a bit pessimistic. But who pays attention to criticism? Read for yourself and judge yourself. You might end up agreeing, and well, that can not hurt anybody.	2002-01-09
US	46120996	R3GSF7B01OYY08	0393318486	218150245	How the Mind Works	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Same old mistakes.	...At the end, however, Pinker writes an authoritative and comprehensive book, that makes many brilliant points, and argues for some plausible evolutionary psychology. I recomend it because it is a classic in the field allready, and a good read. But the computer methaphor is not an easy position to hold with today's modern neuroscience research...	2002-01-09
US	46120996	R17BWDORLMVRZ2	0691004692	360037389	From Brains to Consciousness? Essays on the New Sciences of the Mind	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Good.	This is a grat book because it is multidiciplinary, but maybe content wise, it is not very original-nor focused in consciousness. There are papers dealing with squitzofrenia and ageing. Greenfield contribution presents her neuronal assemblie theory. Rose writes a great introduction to consciousness studies, and it alone pays for the entrance ticket. It is always interesting to read about Aleksanders work on artificial consciousness, and Penrose on Quantum Consciousness. The collection as a whole covers many topics, and it is a valuable contribution to consciousness studies. It is also not at all technical, so it can serve as an introductory work of the field. Again, originality and content do will not live to many expectations, but I certialy recomend the book.	2002-01-05
US	46120996	R1W67858WBZUYA	0521794625	322675814	Enchanted Looms: Conscious Networks in Brains and Computers	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great.	This is an extremely comprehensive book. It covers many aspects of neuroscience and neural networks. Among a lot of information, there is his theory of consciousness. He bases his view of the mind as action centered, and this is to my mind, a good move. It is no surprising that his model includes sensimotor areas. He also includes the prefrontal, premotor, and the thalamus intralaminar nuclei, forming a loop, in his theory of consciousness. He supports it quite well, and it gives rise to predictions that can be experimentaly tested. The data considered is overwhelming, so even if the consciousness theory end up not being totally right, the book as a whole is still a very important piece of literature in the neurosciences. Qualia as essentialy the effects of muscle-spindles in the loop at first seems confusing, if not implausible, but maybe deserves further consideration. Not a lot of neural network talk, but enough to complement nicely.	2002-01-05
US	46120996	R1Z31J0HQ0RFJW	0387987193	178262244	A History of the Mind: Evolution and the Birth of Consciousness	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Good.	I liked the evolutionary focus, especially the proposed theory on how perception/sensation diferentiations evolved. But it is implicitly assumed that consciousness=sensation, and I doubt this is the case. Also, considering the purposes of the book, there is not much neurology. It would be nice if the author could go all the way and propose clearer neurological correlates for sensation, in hte sense described in the book. However, seen in present consciousness studies context, this is a highly valuable volume, that certianly could become a classic. Great prose.<BR>There is a reviewer who mentions Dennett, and I would like to say something in Humphrey's behalf. First, it is not evident that Dennett has it right (see Crick and Kotch's paper 'the unconscious homonucolus\\" for a possibility). Second, I do not see what reading of Humphrey's would show a cartesian theather fallacy in his model.(Humphrey is close, and has collaborated with, Dennett. I would think he is aware of his work). Whithout spoiling it, consciousness for Humphrey (or qualia) are \\"as-if\\" bodily activity loops in the brain. There is no place where it all \\"comes together\\", and the activity is refered back to itself, so does not need to be read out by a homonuculus. Humphrey's free from the cartesian theather.	2002-01-05
US	46120996	R11DK8EUJJOBII	1891786075	174452900	The Biology of Mind: Origins and Structures of Mind, Brain, and Consciousness	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Good review.	This book is essentially a review of current neuroscience. It is not at all technical, and very clearly written. It should serve as an introductory text, and it is not intended to be anything more. Do not expect the advancement of controversial theories or cutting edge research. It is all quite fundamental. The focusing in evolution, embodiement, top down and top up approaches, makes it a complete volume, a solid introduction to neuroscience. The consciousness section is not very interesting. It considers somo work by dennett and Llinas, but nothing really original. It is a fun and easy book to read, and unless you are an expert or someone who is very familiar with the field, you should find a lot of useful information.	2002-01-05
US	46120996	R1UGAKD2Q3PMVU	0684801582	338168936	Astonishing Hypothesis: The Scientific Search for the Soul	Books	3	12	18	N	N	Consciousness?	given the author and his research interests for the last 15 years, I expected a direct evaluation/presentation of a theory of consciousness. Instead, one gets a review of visual neuroscience. Of course, he and Kotch have made it clear they will use the visual system as a starter to finding the neural correlates of consciousness. But even so, one must be disappointed. Crick reviews his &quot;searchlight hypothesis&quot;, which actually received some support at the end of the nineties. He also proposes the Gamma band ocillation theory, and that too has suport (in a way), importantly through the work of LLinas and W. Singer. Synchronization and temporal binding is a hot and promissing field. The book is an interesting read, despite my negative comments. A consciousness studies must, alongside Edelman and Damasios work.	2002-01-05
US	46120996	RSO62P2OPL58A	0595122159	614760096	The Nature of Consciousness: A Hypothesis	Books	4	7	7	N	N	New, bold, quick, possible.	This book goes to the point quickly. No other book on consciousness states its proposal so quickly, efficiently, and elegantly. In the short 150 pages, Pockett exposes and defends her theory adequately. The theory, that spatiotemporal patterns of the electromagnetic field are consciousness, charges against the psychoneural (consciousness as the firing of neurons, or groups of neurons) story boldly. Psychoneuralists need not fear, however. Although the theory presented in the book is interesting, and has neurological evidence in it's side (in a sense), it is by no means the last word on the subject. It is a good theory because it is teastable, clearly stated, and a new way of looking at evidence, but this does not prove it. I myself remain unconvinced, but the book is a worthy read anyway, if consciousness interests you in any way. <BR>     <BR>     Pockett in a way underestimates the psychoneural theory, and could have been more thurough in how her theory would explain binding, how it would fit into an evolutuionary sense, and why we should  accept the &quot;electromagnetic pattern = consciousness identity&quot; over &quot;neuron firing procesing information=consciousness&quot; identity. But the book is still good, informative, and original.<br />     Maybe the final sections, heavily speculative (even relative to the hypothesis), about cosmic consciousness and The Electromagnetic Field,could have been omitted. Maybe these speculations should wait for direct experimental testing of the theory (and Pockett proposes a somewhat direct way of doing this).<br />     But at the end, if nothing else, the theory should be considered, discussed and thought about.	2001-11-24
US	46120996	RHY1UWLS5HYD1	0156010755	257848019	The Feeling of What Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of Consciousness	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Not convinced, but impressed nontheless.	Damasios model of consciousness is good because it is specific. His notions of proto-self, core-self, autobiographical-self etc.. are useful, a little arbitrary, but useful. But my problem, and it is quite simple, is that at the end Damasio seems to be saying no more than any other Higher Order Though theory proponent is saying. &quot;A higher order neuronal pattern mapping the organism being affected by the object&quot; sounds a lot like &quot;thinking about ones thoughts of something&quot;. Thinking, in this last sense, in some way must be a neural pattern, so the line is even thinner. The neurological evidence helps Damasios case, but at the end, the theory itself does not look very original. In that sesnse, his theory might be open to the same critiscisms made to any other HOT, like Rosenthals.<BR>Other more general problems I have with Damasios model are his ambiguous exposition of the relationship between multiple orders of neural states. The relationship between emotion and consciousness is also not quite clear to me.	2001-10-19
US	46120996	R3Q1RX3W72QOA5	0262133709	985387135	Neural Correlates of Consciousness: Empirical and Conceptual Questions	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Best collection to date.	I absolutely loved this book. Nowhere else had I read such an interesting and complete review of where the field of consciousness studies presently stands. The first part of the book, mostly by philosophers, shows that fruitfull interactions are possible betwween science and philosophy. The part on visual consciousness is impressive, shedding much light on new theories and possibilities. In part 2, Damasio, Crick, Edelman and Singer introduce their candidates for the NCC masterfully. The last and more philosophically inclined part of the book, reviews some usually overlooked issues, but unfortunately ends up being mostly speculative. Overall, however,in my opinion this book is the most important contribution to consciousness literature to date.	2001-10-19
US	46120996	R3LJ85QR9N0IK2	0465013775	582660840	A Universe Of Consciousness: How Matter Becomes Imagination	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Good step foward.	Edelmans new theory of consciousness is, as I expected,impresive and quite apealing. Reentry is again in the spotlight, but this time in support of the Dynamic Core hypothesis. This hypothesis is a step foward from other less specific neuronal assembly theories of consciousness, and overall, I found it convincing. I did not give this book 5 stars because at the end of the book, Edelman moves frome concrete science to speculation, and because qualia as neural dimension space discriminations is far from being a convincing model for qualia. It is grounded on neurology though, and for that it is much better than many others. It also is able to diferenciate between conscious and unconscious proceses, among many other advantages. At the end, I believe the strongest aspect of the dynamic core is the way Edelman and Tononi use it to directly explain the phenomenology of consciousness. The introduction is also excellent, and the whole attempt is an adequately built bridge between the neurology and phenomenology of consciousness.	2001-10-19
US	46120996	R1KHQ62XDNY4JW	0471183431	537425623	The Private Life of the Brain: Emotions, Consciousness, and the Secret of the Self	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Vauge.	Like some other reviewers, I found Greenfields main thesis quite vauge. Sure, consciousness depends on a large, transient collection of neurons, and sure, neuron assemblies depend on neuromodulation, force of stimulus, connectiveness, and sure, the body and the mind communicate through peptides. But all that is  very general picture of the neurology of consciousness, like an aereal picture of a city. How can one,from such a model,go into any details (or discriminate in the aerial picture people,interactions between rooms or traffic). There is not much in Greenfields model that sheds any light on the &quot;hard problem&quot; either.<BR>At the end, what is truly the best aspect of the book is the introduction and discussion of current theories, and the fact, stated by Greenfield herself, that at least she produces a testable hypothesis, and grounds her work in uncontroversial neurology. (the epilouge is quite intriguing too).	2001-10-19
US	46120996	RJLJUF16CE2SS	0262700867	749421925	The Race for Consciousness	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	some objections, but also some praise.	O.K, I have tried to review this philosophically  and have edited the result many times. I will now base my critiques on some evidence. First, Taylor proposes that posterior consciousness (phenomenal) emerges from circuits all in posterior cortex. These are suficient for posterior consciousness in his model. Now, experiments of decortication in monkeys of all but posterior regions make these animals (presumably-I will not go into reportability and animal consciousness issues) visually unconcious, and do not even retain blindsight. Second, imaging studies of visual (phenomenal) concsciousness show activation not only in posterior cortex, but also in anterior (Brodmn. Areas 46, 47, dorsolateral PFC). <BR>Taylors main model is the 'relational' paradigm, that is for something to be conscious, its imput must be intermingled with past mamories and processing. Now some cases of severe amnesia are caused just because of inability to relate present imput to past memories or experiences. These patients are nevertheles conscious, even if they cannot remember the imput after some minutes. Relational-model necesary for memory, recolection, recognition, maybe even recall, but not apparently for consciousnes sin general. In fact, Taylor seems at times to equate consciousness in general with working memory, and this does not hold up completely.<BR>Finally, he tries to explain qualia with \\"bubbles\\" of activity in cortex, his argument being that these phenomena have apparent similarity to the properties of qualia itself. But why must something in the brain be like qualia for it to be able to explain it? Are language areas like language? MT like motion? V4 milticolored? The amygdala fearfull? this is the fallacy of isomorphism. It is no argument to say that since something in the brain resembles a phenomenon, then that something is the correlate of the phenomenon.<BR>The model is nevertheless quite complete -that is, he tries to explain a lot, and considers many pieces of evidence. Ibelive Taylor has gotten many things right, but not explained consciousness in a satisfactory way. Good read nevertheless.	2001-10-14
