US	46132882	RLLP68VIB4I86	0525947701	115797132	Vodka	Books	2	7	9	N	N	Interesting background but unlikeable characters	Vodka is an average thriller set in a more interesting than average background - post-Communist Moscow, Russian mafia, KGB leftovers and all that. What lets it down most are implausible and unlikeable main characters.  <br /> <br /> <br />Alice Liddell is an American who feels Russian in her heart, despite acting like a spoilt Western brat. She's a  banker, financier, heavy drinker, smart & sexy & beautiful, a skilled investigator, an unfaithful wife to a boring respectable husband, a coy & pasionate mistress.  <br /> <br />Lev is a 'vor', a member of an elite criminal brotherhood, the leader of a Slav criminal gang, and a Parliamentary Deputy, and a Gulag survivor, and the head of the largest state-run Vodka distillery, big, imposing, muscular, with a hard washboard stomach...you get the drift. It's nothing like this author's very good first book Messiah, which among other things had distinctive yet convincing characters. <br /> <br /> <br />Things get worse when this pair of course fall in love, as they always do in this kind of book. This tiresome situation is described in near Mills & Boon style - glances across the room, blushes, fingers brushing, heated abandon. In between all this there's murder, gang wars, revenge, and plenty of vodka consumed to get through the story. The plot even picks up near the end, but by then I disliked Alice so much it was a lost cause.  <br /> <br />There are worse books than Vodka, but if you like post-Soviet thrillers there are many better - re-read any of the Martin Cruz Smith 'Arkady Renko' or Donald James 'Vadim' books. If Soviet-era  <br />police procedurals might be your thing, read the excellent and original (but hard to find) Stuart Kaminsky 'Porfiry Rostnikov' books.	2005-01-31
US	46132882	R2FND0BRAW42WW	038551123X	999297410	Darkly Dreaming Dexter: A Novel	Books	5	4	9	N	N	A devious, divine & delicious book...	This book really IS as good as everyone who likes it says.  The start is a bit waffly - don't be put off by the first chapter, keep going and it gets better and better. The strictly moral serial killer, who does society a service by dispatching evildoers - simple concept, but it hasn't been done this well since Blackburn: A Novel by Bradley Denton. (If you liked DDD, read Blackburn - it's very different, but you'll enjoy it.) <br /> <br />Dexter, however, is divinely and uniquely quirky. A blood-splatter pattern expert, he talks naturally of 'a splay of police cars' or 'a clot of police officers' gathered around a body. He's cool, sardonic, with an eye for the irony or ridiculous. Though regarding himself as 'inhuman', he's a superb political animal, attuned to the police department games & the nuances of his conniving colleagues, calmly on a knife edge between work and 'play'.  <br /> <br />Throughout the chaotic and totally entertaining criminal investigations, which are hard to describe without giving too much away, runs the reassurance of the Wisdom of Harry. The late Harry, Dexter's wise & worldly foster father, recognized the 'beast' in Dexter, teaching him to channel it towards those we would be better off without. The Wisdom of Harry also taught him how to be inconspicious and appear normal and in control, lessons which have seen Dexter well through many, many murders - but which include nothing about what to do when the dreams start... <br /> <br />Fun. Creepy. Gripping. Clever. I envy those of you about to read it for the first time...	2005-01-20
US	46132882	R2Q1FIIPTNHCD1	0333904109	74204104	The Blood-Dimmed Tide	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Starts well, but loses suspense	The Blood-dimmed Tide starts off full of suspense and promise, but never quite reaches the tension of this author's excellent first novel, River of Darkness. It is probably giving away the ending to complain that the author himself pretty much gives away the ending halfway through the book, and after that it's not so much a matter of who or what, but just when. As some characters are developed you can guess almost exactly what is going to happen to them. Although this is oddly effective in itself, because you can't believe that a book will be this predictable, and keep expecting a clever twist at the end - alas, it never comes. <br /> <br /> <br />What set River of Darkness apart was its unique blend of its bucolic setting with the savagery of the crime. This book doesn't quite get that same balance right - the sometimes cloying sentimentality of some of the scenes and situations seems at odds with the graphic murders, and readers are left with no real insight into the killer, other than, \\"he's a psychopath\\". The promised tie-in with pre-Nazi Germany is similarly flat.  <br /> <br /> <br />The characters who have returned from the previous book have lost some of their appeal - Madden is blankly omnipotent, his worrisome wife just gets annoying, every child is a angelic cherub, and almost everyone else is a rosy-cheeked country stereotype. The book does portray well the manners and mores of depression-era England, with war heroes discarded to menial jobs and men sleeping rough in desperation for work, and some people will enjoy it for the carefully drawn period atmosphere. But to me, the slow-moving action combined with the fact that I could easily forsee most of the ending dragged it out forever.	2005-01-03
US	46132882	ROQL6EF3GTC7D	0684872544	967310766	Wolves Eat Dogs	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Truth is scarier than fiction	I loved Wolves Eat Dogs, and was torn between wanting to keep reading it and not wanting it to be finished.... The Arkady Renko series are not perfect detective novels - they tend to end slightly less interestingly than they start. Nevertheless, I've found them all hugely enjoyable, because few current writers can convey a sense of time, place, events and history as convincingly and effectively as Martin Cruz Smith.  <br /> <br />Gorky Park is one of my all-time favourite books, one of the few I have re-read regularly. It has the most evocative atmosphere, and a story that simply wouldn't work anywhere else. Wolves Eat Dogs is just as good.  <br /> <br />From the winter cold of the pre-Glasnost Soviet Union in Gorky Park through the fervour and political upheaval of Red Square, the history and happenings are made part of the characters' lives and of the story. To appreciate how well this is done in the Renko novels, you only need to read one of the many imitators of Gorky Park, where less skillful authors simply set a sub-standard story in 'exotic' Moscow, hoping for an instant edge - Vodka by Boris Starting is just one recent failed example. <br /> <br /> <br />Like Gorky Park & Red Square (Havana Bay was not quite at their standard) Wolves Eat Dogs starts with a weird and compelling crime, and is set in the most unusual locale yet - the Exclusion Zone, the 30km circle around the Chernobyl nuclear reactor. Inside the zone, fatalistic about its dangers and not quite believing that 'vodka protects against radiation,' are a finely drawn assortment of oddball & cynical residents, scientists & opportunists. Sent to the Zone to prevent him from finding clues closer to home, Arkady Renko stubbornly continues his unpopular murder investigation in the Zone's insular communities, to the beat of his ever-ticking radiation dosimeter. <br /> <br /> <br />But it's the spooky, creepy, dangerous location itself which gives so much to this story. The images of the deserted towns, the 'black' radioactive villages, stagnant cooling ponds, ruins too contaminated to move or even bury, & the lead sarcophagus ineffectively shielding Reactor Number 4 are all the more haunting for being true.  <br /> <br /> <br />Life is stranger and much scarier than fiction.  While the Chernobyl accident has long faded from Western news, Wolves Eat Dogs, while also a first-rate crime novel, paints a picture of Chernobyl's bleak & terrible legacy that will stay wih you long after you finish the book.	2004-12-27
US	46132882	R20I1BP7A67267	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	33	38	N	N	Simply magical...	In general I dislike fantasy books. Harry Potter excepted, most strike me as third rate derivatives of Lord of the Rings. So I bought Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell for my mother, & read the beginning just out of curiosity. After only two pages I knew I was in for a treat, and so it proved. I haven't enjoyed a book so much for years!     There are a very few books that I wish I could somehow erase from my memory, just to have the pleasure of reading them again for the first time. Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell is one of those.     Ms Clark has an imagination easily the equal of J.K.Rowling. The story is packed with memorable images - a fleet of battleships conjured out of rain; a wooden mermaid on a ship's prow, who, when animated, uses all the insults learnt from generations of sailors. The author's descriptions of sounds and colors are quite haunting: 'not quite blue, not yet lilac, not quite grey - the color of heartache'.  Also like Harry Potter, everything and everyone is perfectly & evocatively named, some of the names of spells are wonderful.    This magical environment is superimposed not on an English boarding school this time, but on Regency England with its stock cast of upstairs & downstairs characters, mad kings, foppish gentlemen callers and Napoleonic generals.  Ms Clark merges the magical with the mundane in a completely natural way. 'In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, faries in England were fond of adding to their magic, exhortations to random collections of Christian saints. Fairies were baffled by Christian doctrine, but they were greatly attracted to saints...' The Duke of Wellington's battles in Spain, with the aid of a military magician, seem quite plausible.     And the footnotes! The footnotes are almost the best part of the book. Everyone who reads it has a favorite footnote. There are nearly 200 of them, ranging from pithy observations ('It is all very well in fairy-tales to ask, \\"Who is the fairest of them all?\\" But in reality no magic, fairy or human, could ever be persuaded to answer such an imprecise question.') to extensive self-contained short stories, to explanations for the magical layman - my favorite being the important difference between 'books of magic' and 'books about magic'. Books of magic are rare and precious in this story - sought after by everyone, obsessively collected and guarded by Mr Norrell, and carefully described, in the ever-present footnotes, by the author. Books have such power; when Mr Strange at last manages to enter Nr Norrell's forbidden secret library, something momentous just has to happen...     We recognise people like Mr Norrell & Mr Strange in every era and many endeavours. Norrell is a cautious 'by the book' practical magician taught by years of study. He considers modern magic a gentlemen's profession, wants it regulated by the government, performs dull 'public service' magic to protect coastlines and so on, and disavows 'fairy magic' as a dangerous throwback to more primitive times. Mr Strange has a natural practical ability, a disaster waiting to happen when combined with his obsession with the Raven King, aka the Magician King, the Black King, the 'magician par excellence' who centuries ago ruled northern England, where the stones and trees still remember him...    Ironically though it is Mr Norrell, in sorcerer's apprentice fashion, whose magic conjures up what he most scorns yet fears - the Faerie King, referred to only as, 'the gentlemen with the thistle-down hair', whose anarchic presence thoughout the book is both entertaining and malevolent.    No review can convey how enjoyable this book is. Writing about it makes me want to read it again. It's a real book of magic, worth 10 stars.	2004-10-15
US	46132882	R3TK3BR6UL3J8C	0385336675	649745987	The Enemy (Jack Reacher, No. 8)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Alpha male with a conscience	I've read all eight Jack Reacher novels. The Enemy is not the best of the books - that would be Persuader - but if you enjoyed the others you'll certainly like this one also. You know exactly what you want from a Jack Reacher book and you always get it, which is more than you can say for many popular crime series. Unlike the rapidly deteriorating John Sandford or James Patterson books, Lee Child knows that readers like Jack Reacher just the way he started out - an alpha male with a sense of fairness, but no time to indulge in tricky deep character development. <br />The Enemy is a 'prequel' to the other novels - Reacher is still in the army, a young MP and rising star in the elite 110th investigative unit. Being in uniform doesn't seem to cramp his characteristic style that much - he still resists authority and does what he likes in pursuit of justice, helped by the best kind of female sidekick - attractive, talented and emotionally undemanding.<br />The Enemy does not entirely live up to its promises - the falling of the Berlin Wall adds surprisingly little symbolism or color to the book - it's like, in a far off land some wall is coming down, now lets get back to the story here. The plot seems repetitive in the middle, with a lot of driving here, there, back and back again for Reacher to glean obscure clues that he doesn't deign to share. <br />We get interesting insights into Reacher's family, although he seems very flat about some quite momentous discoveries &amp; events. But, that's what he's like, and that's what we like. Reading this book right now (May 04), it's impossible not to wish there were a few real life Jack Reachers - decent guys with a conscience, but tough as guts - to fix matters up in Iraq...	2004-05-19
US	46132882	R1CG06BBOXBN5T	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Bearing Witness to an Evil Universe	Masters of Death is the most harrowing book I've ever come across. Many parts I had to repeat several times as I really couldn't believe what I'd just read. Some of the photographs are intensely distressing - beware, there are images you will never delete from your mind once you've seen them. I read the book for the reason that the author said he wrote it - to in a small way bear witness. Because the victims deserve their story to be told. Because although they died silently, the world should not be silent about their deaths. <br />I was in mild shock when I finally finished reading. It was like emerging from an alternate evil universe. We use the word 'evil' too lightly these days. No horror writer could even start to imagine the scale, the scope, the terrible individual detail of these crimes. <br />The magnitude of other mass killings during WWII - the millions later in the gas chambers, the suicidal infrantry assaults by the Red Army against the invading Nazis, not to mention the massive losses still resounding from WWI - for a while obscured the actions of the Einsatzgruppen. Only twenty thousand people shot here, thirty thousand people shot there. Many, many unnamed Babi Yars. Mass graves, unexhumed to this day, all over Eastern Europe. A method called 'Sardinenpackung' is perfected to fit bodies most efficiently into mass graves - a Kepler Conjecture for the evil universe. But each victim is shot singly, personally, up close - Adolf Eichmann, big picture logistics man for the Reich, is disgusted when brains splatter his coat as he inspects an execution. <br />Some very discordant things hang in the air after this book. Not a few of the Einsatzgruppen members are distressed by having to kill babies and children, notwithstanding Hitler's rationalization that the children will just grow up to avenge their parents. Impersonal gassing techniques were then developed to prevent the child-murderers suffering psychological damage from their crimes, although Himmler used such distress to back up his assertions that the SS were really decent human beings at heart - there was just this 'Jewish Problem' and, you know, somebody had to do it. Heinrich Himmler, unfit weakling and squeamish runt, the very last person to be championing genetic quality, went unpunished, as did the vast majority of the Einsatzgruppen. Taking the coward's way out, he took cyanide when captured and was dumped in an unmarked grave. \\"It was no killing pit, but it would do.\\"	2004-04-27
US	46132882	R1FGAO60MWB9SC	1400032202	964050438	Koba the Dread: Laughter and the Twenty Million	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Part self-indulgent ramble, but hauntingly effective	Koba the Dread is a self-indulgent ramble of a book in parts, yet as a whole, hauntingly effective. Part 1, 'The Collapse of the Value of Human Life', sets the scene and the mood - an eclectic yet somehow logically organized collection of short points, anecdotes, reminiscences. Part 2, 'Iosif the Terrible: Short Course', explores the life, times and crimes of Stalin, from childhood to deathbed encompassing famine, collectivization, terror, invasion and the camps. <br />But this is no dull history nor plodding biography. Bite-sized mini-topics hold your interest, yet combine in a devastating picture of ... 'a madman' is far too simplistic a term for a tyrant who, unlike the oft-compared Hitler, does not always seem aware of the nature of evil. Part 2 is an excellent 'quick study' of the major Soviet commentators (lots of Robert Conquest and of course Solzhenitsyn) if you don't have the stomach to read them, and a good humanizing of events if you have read them. Had you ever wondered why we all know what the Holocaust is, yet there is no word to cover the many more millions murdered by the Terror-Famine, or in the Gulag?<br />While Stalin saw the Soviet Union as a reflection of himself, in major ways he and his tragic country took different paths, and this is partly why it is pointless to ask, as this and many other authors do, 'why do people instinctively revile Hitler and Nazism but not Stalin and Bolshevism?'  The most chilling page in the book is the discussion that if Stalin had strengthened and properly prepared his military, they could have defeated the invading Germans in weeks, thus perhaps saving 40 million lives, including the majority of Holocaust victims. Instead, Stalin purged his army officers, ignored evidence of the imminent Nazi invasion and made huge military tactical blunders; yet despite him and the evil he did them, the Red Army and Soviet citizens defeated Hitler through their own determination for revenge, physical toughness and sheer willingness to endure. This, Mr Amis, is quite simply why you can wear a hammer and sickle t-shirt but not a swastika.	2004-04-11
US	46132882	R1IMCP8O43OU3H	1862075808	785343650	Stasiland: True Stories from Behind the Berlin Wall	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Girl's Guide to Totalitarianism	With its non-US edition having a cover shot of a pouting beauty in red lipstick and a red sequinned top, Stasiland is not even pretending to be a serious history book.  Nevertheless, there's certainly a place for lightweight, general human-interest books like this, in bringing the underlying civil and historical issues to an audience not otherwise disposed to wade through a deeper politcal analysis.<br />Stasiland is written in a style like a personal journal - the stories told by ex-GDR citizens to the author are often prefaced with descriptions of where she had coffee before they met, and followed by what she thought afterwards while walking home. But altogether it works more than it doesn't work. Despite occasional lapses into waffle and naval-gazing, the author's cool observations are frequently disquieting and insightful.<br />Found in a variety of ways, from advertising to chance meetings to word of mouth, the people interviewed are correspondingly varied themselves. They range from grandstanding ex-Stasi conspiracy theorists to truly ordinary people caught in a bizarrely cruel social experiment - it's the latter who truly highlight how misguided is the seemingly benign, 'Hello Lenin' nostalgia. <br />One regret about the book is that much time is spent on some of the less interesting tales, and not enough on the more interesting people - like the haunting story of Frau Paul, seperated by chance from her sick baby, which leaves you stunned with both the humanity and the inhumanity of it.	2004-03-08
US	46132882	R27QG1UY28EB1J	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Efficient, but no edge	I've read the whole Prey series, which ranges from excellent to mediocre. Mortal Prey is definitely in the latter category, going through the motions competently enough but with no real spark, lacking the edge of Eyes of Prey, for example. <br />The most entertaining thing about this book is the fact that author Carl Hiaason describes it on the cover as, 'a haunting, unforgettable, ice-blooded thriller', when in fact it's none of those things. John Sandford now owes him a really nice review for his next book, meanwhile the readers have all been suckered. I was bored when I read it and had to look through it again just now to see what it was about, after finishing it only days ago.<br />Clara Rinker was never one of the more gripping or realistic baddies and barely carried the first book she appeared in, let alone a second one. Amidst all the descriptions of her whiskey-voiced blondeness, I never really got the feel of exactly why she became and did what she did. There are obligatory mentions of Lucas's life - longtime girlfriend and series character Weather is pregnant, yet he takes off and practically ignores her for the whole book. To make up for the incomplete emotional pictures we are repeatedly given detailed descriptions of the cut, color, style and brand of Davenport's clothes, his home renovations, the model numbers of his guns, and so on.<BR> <BR>Hard-core Prey fans won't agree, and if you're a huge Lucas Davenport fan you'll no doubt still enjoy it. Just don't believe all the raves, and don't expect edge of your seat stuff like some of his earlier books.	2003-01-09
US	46132882	R2UNM7Y325B879	0451175824	758088420	Just Killing Time	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Just Killing today's bland crime books, easily	This summer holidays I read the latest books by several popular crime series authors and was disappointed in all of them. Just Killing Time, over 10 years old and bought for 50c at a junk sale, was by far better than any of them. It's a one-off book - the author does not seem to have written any since, unfortunately - and that alone makes it stand out from the profit-oriented, formula best-sellers that ration out one major character and one major crime per volume. Just Killing Time has enough different murders, investigators, perpetrators, MOs, motives and psychological damage to fill several books. <br />A lot is going on in this book, certainly more than one story, and to be honest it doesn't all tie up neatly at the end, and some major themes somehow end up leading nowhere at all. Nevertheless I gladly forgave this book all that because so much of it is genuinely original, really scary & quite creepy & uneasy. There were things that made me cringe, and the vulnerability, delusion, and mental darkness of the different characters is very well drawn. <br />These crimes deeply touch the men investigating them - none of this bland 'he had trained himself to be objective' stuff. Just Killing Time deals with murders set in the present back through the 50's and 60's and back to the US, Civil War and the detailed history of one small place in this huge sweep of time adds some really spooky atmosphere.<br />Serial killer fans know all too well that they don't write good ones anywhere as near as fast as we read them... of the thousands of copycat serial killer books out there, probably less than a dozen or so are really gripping and scary, and despite its flaws this is one of them. Search the second-hand bookstores and look for it, it's quicker than waiting for someone else to write something this good.	2003-01-09
US	46132882	R68LLD373JG7P	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Catchy but contrived	Killing the Shadows has an catchy outline: somebody is systematically murdering the top-selling psych-crime authors, each murder copying the method used in that author's best known book. Crime psychologist Fiona Cameron has more than a professional concern in the case - her true love, Kit Martin, is a best-selling crime writer himself. Irresistable idea, but there's a risk that following a plot like this can end up a bit contrived, and unfortunately, that's what happens with this book.<br />Much of what happens you can guess well in advance, with the exception of the killer's eventual motive, which turns out to be so disconnected you'd never guess it. The main characters and relationships are all too pat and flawless - the edginess of some of Val McDermid's previous characters is absent.  Fiona has emotional scars from a personal tragedy that segues neatly into her chosen career, and that tidily resolve themselves at the end. She has perfect romantic bliss with Kit, and a perfect platonic friendship with a cop who is, of course, Kit's best male bonding buddy. Kit is tough enough to write blood-curdling prose, sweet enough to leave her home-made risotto in the fridge for dinner, and irritatingly dumb, in the tradition of people in scary films who always walk alone down dark alleys.<br />Am I being tough on this book? Probably - there will be readers who really like it. It's still well-written, despite the often predictable plot, and some of the minor characters are the most interesting. It's far from a bad book, though I think after this, psychological profiling's been done to death. But Val McDermid at her best - try 'The Mermaid Singing' - is so very good, and this book doesn't quite reach that standard.	2001-09-28
US	46132882	ROEEB1Y2ESKHW	0786704632	943888341	By Reason of Insanity	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Insanely good!	By Reason of Insanity is a powerful, gut-wrenching book. It's so completely unlike any other serial killer book, even the very very good ones. I'll finish one book and pick up another without a minute in between, but when I finished this I was reluctant to read anything else for quite a while, suspecting that any future crime books are just going to be a pale shadow of this one. So far, they all are. According to the back cover, this is considered 'One of the five greatest crime novels of the century,' and while tags like that are usually ridiculous, I agree with it.<br />At over 500 pages, this book is a saga of far more than murder. It's fiction, but it's written like investigative journalism, and feels very real indeed. Starting with the gas chamber execution of a convicted rapist in 1960 the story swoops back to the post-war years and forward to the 70's as the execution resonates horribly into the next generation. It takes a lot to fill a book this size, and woven in with the evolution of a tragically tortured child into a terrifying and elusive killing machine are incredibly detailed stories of journalism, politics and policing, woven together by issues of mental health and capital punishment.<br />Thomas Bishop is criminally insane - at least he is assumed to be, after an incident horrific enough to get him consigned to a institution at an early age. But Bishop is no raving 'nut case', as the mentally ill were popularly described at the time - his coolly planned escape and ability to use society's tools to escape detection indicate an extreme intelligence, while at the same time the shocking nature of his crimes lead some police to speculate they are up against something not even human. If they only knew, that there are even more terrifying demons inside his head...<br />This is not a perfect book - there are a few quite major and very annoying implausabilities, which would give away too much of the story to describe. It's not for everyone - the sexual violence is relentless and extreme, and if you're a gentle mystery reader you'll have a heart attack. So bloody, graphic and unemotional are the author's descriptions of some of the victims - there are plenty - that when he restrains from describing others, it's even scarier. <br />By Reason of Insanity was first published in 1979, well before the current 'popularity' of serial murder in fiction, and it probably wouldn't be written today, most crime authors seemingly being more concerned with producing endless airport bestsellers.  It's bad that this book appears unavailable, it deserves a resurgence, and heaps of new readers, Shane Stevens really puts today's authors in the shade. This isn't light reading - there's no stock romance, no light relief, no predictable ending. But if gruesome doesn't bother you and you're bored with lookalike murder books, find this one and read it, I guarantee it'll shake you up.	2001-09-14
US	46132882	R1J3QS3PJQY32J	0345344855	780090665	Live Flesh	Books	3	13	14	N	N	menace and incipient violence	Ruth Rendell books are the scariest there are - not because of blood, gore and mutilation, but because they expose the infinitely greater menace of mental trauma. The number of Hannibal Lecter's in the general population is small - the greater threat comes from the more 'unremarkable' people, like Victor Jenner, this book's main character. <br />Victor has just been released from prison for shooting and crippling a young policeman.  Coping with the changed world without and terrifying rages and phobias within, Victor is resentful, totally amoral, and feels he is entitled to whatever he can get - or take. Unbeknowst to the police, he is also guilty of a number of violent rapes, for which he has never been charged. The 'normal' side he can present to his social workers and employers is countered by the crashing and tortured screaming that others hear coming from his room, and he hears within his head.<br />Envious of the public admiration for his victim David, whose stoic acceptance of his paralysis has won him high regard and accolades, Victor can't stop himself making contact.  To his surprise, David and his girlfriend Clare welcome him, assuming his motives are benign - that he, also, is trying to make sense of how the incident has affected his life.  Victor manages to act normally long enough for them to become 'friends', but the tension of his scheming, David's skepticism and Clare's naive belief in Victor make you feel something awful is just around the corner. Away from his friends, all sorts of things in Victor's mind are starting to surface, and go out of control...<br />Ruth Rendell never writes a bad book, and this is one of her more original plots, no normal whodunnit. From the first pages Victor's incipient violence is so well portrayed, yet what happens is still a complete surprise. Rehabilitation of violent offenders, and their integration back into society, is a very low priority of governments today. The thought that there are people like Victor on the streets around us is all the more worrying for probably being true. A discomforting and somewhat disturbing story.	2001-09-09
US	46132882	RO1XNFTSDDKR9	0451203267	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me (Revised and Updated): 20th Anniversary	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Stranger than fiction	Despite being a huge crime reader, I don't usually read true crime. This book was recommended by so many crime fiction readers that I thought I'd check it out. I was interested in how one of the most noteworthy real life serial killers compared against his fictional counterparts.<br />Many aspects of Ted Bundy's life of crime really are the stuff of novels, and no doubt have inspired many. Women of a specific and similar physical appearance disappearing all over the country are like something from a James Patterson book. Like Hannibal Lecter, Ted Bundy had formal psychiatric training and was experienced at administering the same psychological tests that were given to him in prison. He is cunning enough to escape prison, and adept at procuring fake identities and eluding the police. No maladjusted misfit, he was personable, charming, attractive to women - while capable of chilling rages where, in a single night, he could savage 4 different women, racing, bloodstained, from one college dorm to another. <br />Much of the book is about Bundy's trials and time in prison - details absent from most fiction, which usually conveniently end after the perpetrator's discovery. While Bundy himself could hold his own as a fictional character, what really differs is the lack of any cohesive protaganist. While many individual police worked long and hard on his cases over the years, there was no idea for a long while that many of his attacks were connected, a situation that surely could not have escaped, for instance, a Lucas Davenport. Once the police finally manage to convict him - on only three of a known 35 and suspected 150 murders - the suspense moves to Bundy's fight against his execution date, which is postponed many times. Bundy repeatedly gains time by promising to confess - although already convicted, confessions to the any of the dozens of outstanding suspicious disappearances are a powerful bargaining tool for him due to the closure that it brings to these victim's relatives. The thought of so many real families in such uncertain agony - some of them, still - is very upsetting.<br />Whether Ms Rule's unique persective on the Ted Bundy case actually adds anything to the story is hard to say - despite their long friendship, she seems as baffled as everyone else as to how or why the kind and sensitive guy she knew could be a brutal and sadistic killer. Everyone who reads this by now knows the facts of the case, and it's hard to share any of her initial support of Bundy. This book's effectiveness is its thoroughness in showing the untidy fringes and loose ends that accompany real life crime - it's a scary, thought-provoking, and worthwhile read.	2001-09-09
US	46132882	R3K90EZJGHB3GC	055358006X	701522620	Dreams in the Key of Blue	Books	4	8	8	N	N	dream fades slightly, but still worth a read	Dreams in the Key of Blue starts excellently, with realistic characters, snappy writing, and a definite edge to the storytelling. A retired forensic psychiatrist emerges from seclusion to teach a 'Gender and Violence' course at an exclusive women's college - whereupon, in short order, people start dying violently and horribly. The author is in fact himself a retired forensic psychiatrist, accounting for the credibility of his main character Lucas Frank, and the early part of the book is full of interesting crime history.<br />The plot offers a few obvious cliches and the story eventually falls into them, ending up chasing it's own tail at the end, too much psychiatry and not enough forensics. Nevertheless, it's a worthy addition to the serial killer shelf. I'll definitely read more John Philpin books.	2001-09-09
US	46132882	R21OUR9HMT8LMK	0553473077	624648249	Cold, Cold Heart	Books	3	2	2	N	N	predictable light entertainment	Cold Cold Heart has just everything - blood-thirsty mutiliations, rogue KGB defectors, FBI and CIA goons, a hard-bitten and disillusioned hero, AND a stunning beautiful Porsche-driving gun-toting ex-cop-turned-journalist sidekick. <br />Though not breaking any new ground, Cold Cold Heart does what it sets out to do extremely well. It's gripping, fast paced and entertaining, and a cut above the average airport thriller.<br />Mike Culley is very much like Lee Child's Jack Reacher character - if you like him, read this while you're waiting for the next Jack Reacher book.	2001-09-09
US	46132882	R2SGO1V0UPT47K	0393050297	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: The Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stranger than fiction	Despite being a huge crime reader, I don't usually read true crime. This book was recommended by so many crime fiction readers that I thought I'd check it out. I was interested in how one of the most noteworthy real life serial killers compared against his fictional counterparts.<br />Many aspects of Ted Bundy's life of crime really are the stuff of novels, and no doubt have inspired many. Women of a specific and similar physical appearance disappearing all over the country are like something from a James Patterson book. Like Hannibal Lecter, Ted Bundy had formal psychiatric training and was experienced at administering the same psychological tests that were given to him in prison. He is cunning enough to escape prison, and adept at procuring fake identities and eluding the police. No maladjusted misfit, he was personable, charming, attractive to women - while capable of chilling rages where, in a single night, he could savage 4 different women, racing, bloodstained, from one college dorm to another. <br />Much of the book is about Bundy's trials and time in prison - details absent from most fiction, which usually conveniently end after the perpetrator's discovery. While Bundy himself could hold his own as a fictional character, what really differs is the lack of any cohesive protaganist. While many individual police worked long and hard on his cases over the years, there was no idea for a long while that many of his attacks were connected, a situation that surely could not have escaped, for instance, a Lucas Davenport. Once the police finally manage to convict him - on only three of a known 35 and suspected 150 murders - the suspense moves to Bundy's repeated fight against his execution date, which is postponed many times in a morass of often less than inspiring legal wrangling. <br />Whether Ms Rule's unique persective on the Ted Bundy case actually adds anything to the story is hard to say - despite their long friendship, she seems as baffled as everyone else asto how or why the kind and sensitive guy she knew could be a brutal and sadistic killer. Everyone who reads this by now knows the facts of the case, and it's hard to share any of her initial support of Bundy. This book's effectiveness is its thoroughness in showing the untidy fringes and loose ends that accompany real life crime - it's a scary, thought-provoking, and worthwhile read.	2001-09-09
US	46132882	RQ7VUWFPSPVPJ	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Don't click on this one	Books set in the worlds of forensic science, pathology or criminal psychology generally aim to inform as well as entertain, and since so few readers are crime professionals in real life, any inaccuracies go unnoticed in the quest for a good read. A book based on computer hackers, however, is a much riskier proposition with an increasingly computer-literate population. In The Blue Nowhere, full of constant efforts to show off his computer knowledge, Mr Deaver, usually an enthralling crime author, falls flat on his face.<br />     People no longer fear computers as some kind of voodoo box. Even to the most virus-plagued home users the notion of a hacker being able to tap in anywhere anytime at will to cut power, intercept specific phone calls, order injections and open electronic gates  - often all at once - is bordering on fanciful or at least unlikely. Even sillier is the depiction of hackers and their personal habits. Hackers reportedly type so much they get tell-tale calluses on their fingertips (as opposed to law-abiding professional programmers) and do fingertip pushups to strengthen them - the harder the fingers, the better the code! Hackers are so powerful that keys fly off and keyboards disintegrate under their touch. Hackers can 'feel' the machine and it's power- is this the digital age, or the middle ages?     <br />Even if you're willing to accept all this for the sake of the story, the book is annoying. The chapters are gratuitously numbered in binary (which the author himself admits he can't read). The text includes full email headers everywhere - gee, we're impressed. Every few pages someone has to stop and explain a new buzzword, acronym, or UNIX command to the dummies in the book, and presumably the dummies reading the book. The plot starts off interestingly but degenerates into an dreary and endless battle of who can seize control of whose root directory.   <br />The hacker hero, Wyatt Gillette, is an unappealing character - like the hacker stereotype he's a pimply boy who eats only Pop-Tarts, drinks Jolt Cola, doesn't wash and is pale and stooped from sitting over a screen. Unlike the typical hacker he's longng to have babies with his ex-wife, and muses on the metaphors between real and cyber existence - all in all, I found him a real pain, and the other characters boring. The one realy computer-literate female even gasps at the cleverness of his code. The whole book is simply pretentious and tedious. If you're into machines killing people, go and watch Japanese sci-fi. If you're into crime books, give this one a miss and read the Devil's Teardrop.	2001-06-03
US	46132882	RPJOL1XZT9HM	0671024094	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Danse Macabre	Fictional investigators do tend to be an unreal lot, but Lincoln Rhyme, the central figure of this book and previously of The Bone Collector, is something else again. <br />Rhyme, a forensic expert paralyzed in an accident while collecting evidence, now has a fully fledged crime analysis lab including mass spectrometer in his bedroom and a stunningly beautiful redheaded cop  - herself an ex-model, racing-car driver and expert marksman - working his crime scenes and chastely sharing his specially designed quadraplegic's bed - she's in love with his mind, you see.<br />Rhyme also has pet falcons, a slavishly devoted and impeccably fashionably dressed male nurse ... scretary ... lab assistant, world forensic experts wandering in and out all day and friends on the police force bringing him interesting cases and intercepting bodies for him to examine. So honed is his expertise that a few grains of sand or dirt can place a perp at a particular city block.<br />But if you can suspend belief, The Coffin Dancer is a really good read. The killer, known as the 'Dancer' from a macabre tattoo seen by his only surviving victim, is cool, devious, always several steps ahead of the investigation, and terrifying able to escape - or enter - anywhere. As he and Rhyme play mind games, the plot twists, turns, shocks and surprises till the very end. Many try, but nobody writes as excitingly as Jeffrey Deaver at his best. This is his best book, but don't miss The Devil's Teardrop either.	2001-05-05
US	46132882	R324W4PFQHUQBC	0140291962	316534633	River of Darkness (John Madden Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Scary and refreshingly original	A combination of a 1920's British whodunnit and a serial murder psychological thriller? Descriptions of this book sounded too weird to be true, yet this is exactly what 'River of Darkness' is, and it works - brilliantly.<br />Set in post-war England, an Inspector haunted by his experience in the trenches and helped by a sucession of village bobbies uses forensics and psychological profileing to track a serial killer - decades before any of these terms are even invented.<br />The suspense builds as the author shows us the thoughts and doings of the victims, police, and killer, in the lead up to each of his awful and inevitable bursts of random and targeted violence.<br />The victim's wounds point to a highly specialised military background; physical evidence indicates that the murderer watches his carefully-chosed victims for weeks; psychological opinion has it that his sexual release come only from killing. This killer is far scarier than any modern big-city stalker/slasher - not since Red Dragon have I read of such a truly frightening character. This is an excellent and original book - I totally recommend it.	2001-04-28
US	46132882	R3UXYDVX0K9ZJT	0515122564	963249302	The Echo	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Trying too hard	Snappy and interesting in many places, The Echo's flaws make it all the more disappointing. The missing persons based plot starts well but gets more and more contorted until you simply can't follow and don't even care who was pretending to be who to whom and when and why.    A couple of the main good guy characters are either totally unbelievable and/or totally off. A 14 yr old sexually &amp; emotionally abused runaway found squatting in a homeless men's doss house transforms into a wise,<br />supportive, insightful companion who quotes and analyses William Blake. A repressed homosexual who publicly jerks off in people's gardens is just plain creepy and unlikeable.    The whole atmosphere is just bland British mystery, to which the author attempts to give a contemporary edge by the use of bad language and gratuitously coarse supposed homosexual slang, but it doesn't really work. It probably made an OK BBC TV series, but for a book like this is trying to be, read one of the better Val McDermid books, or for that matter pretty much any Ruth Rendell book.	2001-03-19
US	46132882	R318DW2KT41IM8	0375704914	61936832	A Demon in My View	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beats most of today's mysteries without even trying	A Demon in My View is 25 years old. It's a mark of Ms Rendell's talent that it can still easily hold its own against the current popular mystery writers.                    Ruth Rendell has a superb grasp of human nature - her characterizations are the best in the business. You'd recognise these people if you met them, though some of them you really wouldn't want to meet! Fat, avaricious landlord Stanley represents his type exactly and meek, righteous, houseproud Arthur, the book's main character, is one of the very creepiest people I've ever read about - repressed, obsessed and cunning. You can't help wondering how many men like him there are out there, 'men with his problem' - a problem that Arthur is proud that he can keep under control. He never lets himself go out after dark, to keep well away from temptation, and what he does in the basement instead is really sick.                    Far more intriguing than the usual whodunnit, this book is more of a 'will he do it?'  After a new neighbour moves into his sheltered environment - handsome, confident, friendly and all the things Arthur recognizes he himself isn't - Arthur's basement refuge is no more, and his frustration, paranoia and weirdness increase. There's lots more plot and lots of interesting minor characters, and Ms Rendell makes it seem easy. It isn't - read and recognize a master author.	2001-03-19
US	46132882	RT60YZFET7JY	1860461670	369275603	MISS SMILLA'S FEELING FOR SNOW	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Icy and lyrical - complex but rewarding reading.	Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow is a fascinating book. It's quite unjust that on Amazon at least, it seems barely known, while books of much lesser ambition and accomplishment are lauded.<br />The book is actually  hard to describe. In plot terms: the heroine, a prickly loner, is drawn into a plot by a child's death. Sensing wrongdoing, she battles police, bureaucracy and sinister conspiracies to get to the truth, helped by a misfit band of characters, all while falling in love against her will with her main collaborator - or is he the enemy?<br />In the hands of most authors, this would just be another of the thousands of wannabe thrillers published each year. Peter Hoeg, with the setting, the character, and the originality of his writing, makes Miss Smilla's Feeling for Snow something quite different.<br />The book is set in cold, cold climates, ranging from urban Copenhagen to the fjords &amp; glaciers of Smilla's homeland of Greenland, to the seas off west Greenland that terrify even the hardest sailors - the 'Sea of Fog' and the 'Iceberg Cemetery'.<br />Smilla Jaspersen, of unusual parentage - her father a Danish medical specialist, her mother a Greenlandic traditional hunter - is a scientist, rationalist, mathematician and expert on snow and ice in all its forms. After her mother disappears on a hunting trip the child Smilla is taken to Denmark by her father - to a foreign land of boarding schools where no-one speaks her language, and people look down on the dark, uncouth Greenlanders.<br />As much as a thriller this is also a story of displacement and dispossession, of how irrevocably your homeland can shape you and remain in your heart. The well-meaning Danes colonise Greenland with the usual devastating effects on the native inhabitants - Smilla's own brother, the clan's supreme hunter, is reduced to sweeping docks and then suicide.<br />Smilla herself is educated and urbane enough to survive city life - she dresses elegantly, reads Euclid, understands bureaucracy. But the subversive misfit of her childhood is never far from the surface and she's a genuine rebel, in a way that the savvy, wisecracking heroines of US/UK stories somehow never are.<br />The language, while lyrically translated, is very unlike anything that would be written in native English, it's crammed indiscriminately with mundane details, philosphical musings, and a few wonderful insights. It's not for lightweight easy-reading fans - neither is the final revelation of the 'mystery' which, although implausibly stupid, somehow doesn't detract too much from the overall spell of the book. If you're bored with the standard murder mystery/thriller books, please - find and read this one.	2001-03-17
US	46132882	RP8V4ZTAB2O0E	1890208213	246059244	The Wire in the Blood	Books	3	31	31	N	N	Complex and imperfect, but still worth reading	Val McDermid is one of the most adventurous current crime writers, a welcome change from those whose every new book is a gradually less profitable clone of their previous one. This story, a sequel to the excellent 'The Mermaids Singing', is actually not much like it at all. The main characters return, but that's where the similarity ends. The Mermaids Singing focused in on several ghastly serial murders and the efforts of criminal profiler Tony Hill to get a grasp of the killer's mind, while battling the personal demons that seem to afflict every fictional police psychologist.<br />In 'The Wire in the Blood', girls are disappearing and dying and we guess quite early on who's responsible - the book details the efforts of the police to link the killings and determine the killer's identity. There are many stories in this book, and in the hands of a less skilled writer it could easily have fallen apart. Even with this writer's talent, there's a lot going on to keep track of, we're introduced in detail to a huge crowd of individuals in the first few chapters and there are lots of threads to follow. <br />The centerpiece of the plot is the return of Tony Hill, this time teaching a class of baby profilers, who all bond together and function as a forensic profiling collegiate ensemble when one of their own number disappears after getting too close to the truth. As well as heaps of information about profiling itself, the book offers insight into how territorial turf wars and the resentment by old-time beat police of the 'mumbo jumbo' of psychological tools can impact effective crime fighting - unlike his fictional FBI counterparts, Tony Hill does not ride in on a white horse as much as bang on the door and beg to be heard. Like many of Ms McDermid's books it's populated with strong females, with a nod of approval to gay women.<br />This isn't a perfect book - there are patches of coarse writing, some things are a bit hackneyed (hidden basement full of custom torture equipment...), the symbolism of the victim's injuries is over the top, and Dr Hill is only able to feel fully understood once his beloved, a Police Officer, also has 'blood on her hands'... hmmm. But it's interesting, touching on things most crime books don't, and is far better than many much better known best-sellers.	2001-02-20
US	46132882	R31O1M921USFK5	078688908X	431969881	Chain of Evidence	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Forensic follies	Ridley Pearson comes up with some of the more original serial murder plots - in Chain of Evidence, a legendary forensic scientist turns rogue - or does he? - against those he thinks are helping criminals like his wife's murderer.<br />Hero cop Joe Dartelli has everything a fiction hero needs - weirdly abusive childhood, the choice of beautiful and brilliant co-worker or beautiful and brilliant ex, ... and an annoying range of physical reactions. In just a couple of pages early on, he:<br />feels a worming sense of worry twist his gut, feels the constant din of his internal voice nagging, feels his words catch in his throat, his mind reels, the worry burns inside him again, he felt the need to spill his guts, his voice becomes too tight to answer... I kept hoping for someone to put him out of his misery.<br />The circumstances of the original cover-up aren't that clear, the computer hacking at the end is ludicrously fanciful, and seemingly every location in the book is<br />described as too dangerous for whites to go after dark, far more so than any book set in NY or LA. In between all this murk, there are also flashes of Mr Pearson's talent as a snappy crime writer. Still, you might want to skip this one, and read Beyond Recognition instead.	2001-02-20
US	46132882	RSPQFJ4WOUDUX	0312956126	936643050	The Scold's Bridle: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A dark and edgy saga	Minette Walters is a terrific writer and certainly deserves the comparisons to Ruth Rendell and PD James. Yet, it's hard to know what to make of this compelling yet flawed book. Elderly Mathilda Gillespie, wealthy, eccentric and misanthropic, is found dead, gruesomely, with wrists slit and an ancient torture instrument on her head. Suicide, or murder? And what about that will?<br />Each chapter is prefaced, brilliantly, with an excerpt from Mathilda's diaries. Literate and erudite in a<br />period where women of her social position were destined purely for domestic ornamentation, her decades of vindictive bitterness all but spit at us from the pages.<br />There's a much more interesting and less homogeneous than usual cast of characters, and the wonderful dialog perfectly captures their varying classes, ages and personalities. The book is supposedly set in or near the present but apart from the occasional f-word and references to heroin and abortion, has a sort of<br />otherwordly timelessness of most classic British mysteries.<br />The motive behind the killing turns out to be weak, the final reconciliation of the main characters mawkish, and the intergenerational torture and other goings-on is laid on heavily enough to be almost slapstick in the end. But so assured and precise is the telling that The Scold's Bridle remains an enjoyable book. If you like British whodunnits, then read it, it's darker and edgier than most of them. I'll definitely be reading more Minette Walters.	2001-02-11
US	46132882	RASREZ6F2QX7Q	0312956126	936643050	The Scold's Bridle: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A dark and edgy saga	Minette Walters is a terrific writer and certainly deserves the comparisons to Ruth Rendell and PD James. Yet, it's hard to know what to make of this compelling yet flawed book. Elderly Mathilda Gillespie, wealthy, eccentric and misanthropic, is found dead, gruesomely, with wrists slit and an ancient torture instrument on her head. Suicide, or murder? And what about that will?<br />Each chapter is prefaced, brilliantly, with an excerpt from Mathilda's diaries. Literate and erudite in a<br />period where women of her social position were destined purely for domestic ornamentation, her decades of vindictive bitterness all but spit at us from the pages.<br />There's a much more interesting and less homogeneous than usual cast of characters, and the wonderful dialog perfectly captures their varying classes, ages and personalities. The book is supposedly set in or near the present but apart from the occasional f-word and references to heroin and abortion, has a sort of<br />otherwordly timelessness of most classic British mysteries.<br />The motive behind the killing turns out to be weak, the final reconciliation of the main characters mawkish, and the intergenerational torture and other goings-on is laid on heavily enough to be almost slapstick in the end. But so assured and precise is the telling that The Scold's Bridle remains an enjoyable book. If you like British whodunnits, then read it, it's darker and edgier than most of them. I'll definitely be reading more Minette Walters.	2001-02-11
US	46132882	R9CTIWRXHE3RA	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Original, clever and disturbing	Unlike most popular crime authors, Val McDermid is not afraid to try something original. Unlike most crime authors who attempt a different approach to an overpopulated subject, she has the writing ability to pull it off - brilliantly, in the case of 'A Place of Execution'.<br />The book is an intensive look at a single crime - the disappearance and murder of a young girl from a tiny English village in the early 1960s. The crime, its setting, victim, suspects, and investigating officers are studied minutely - at the time, and some 35 years later. This does not sound like engrossing stuff, and for quite a while I read the synopsis of this book and couldn't be bothered buying it. I'm glad I finally did - in the hands of Ms McDermid it's an enthralling and sometimes disturbing drama. The crime is awful, the courtroom scenes as tense as any legal thriller, the punishment horrible, and their effect on everyone concerned shapes their lives.<br />Many murder books could have been set anywhere &amp; anytime, apart from a few gratuitous references to city landmarks or using the Internet. This author has the rare knack, in all her books, of being able to exactly convey a sense of time and place. A Place of Execution owes its effectiveness to this ability. You experience the orderly world of British policing in the 60's, where policemen are always men, token WPCs are there just to make the tea (never coffee) and deal with the weepy victims, and everyone chain-smokes without a thought. The close-knit village, and its inhabitants, feels claustrophobic and sinister. <br />When the book shifts 35 years to 1998, it's quite a culture shock - you sense the change to the  here and now, in the modern dialog, the attitudes, the outlook. You'll be as surprised by the end of the book as any of the characters - it's a real journey. <br />Val McDermid is so underrated internationally, I don't know why. I suspect a lot of US readers think that any murder books set in the UK are just about re-hashed Inspectors Morse, Dalgliesh, Wexford and so on. The truth is, most of them are, but A Place of Execution isn't one of them - it's unusual, chilling, and very, very clever. Find it, buy it and read it! It's one of the most memorable books I've read in ages.	2001-02-03
US	46132882	R1RC0GJAL94IZ7	0679748091	731779198	Ripley Under Water	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Brilliant - a book full of impending menace.	This was the first Ripley book I ever read, and remains my firm favourite - I enjoyed it even more than 'The Talented Mr Ripley', which itself is also excellent.<br />Patricia Highsmith is one of the most effective suspense writers I've come across. I have never been able to put my finger on exactly why - others can do the fancy literary analysis - but you HAVE to keep reading, you feel like you're right there in that place and time, and you feel all of Tom Ripley's worry, relief, triumph and terror as if it was your own.<br />Her books aren't particularly fast-moving or violent, and don't get to the action directly enough for some people. But if her wonderful, evocative prose gets you, Ripley (re-)discovering the single corpse of one of his victims is more horrifying than anything in a dozen splatter books - I was just dreading it, for pages and pages before it happened.<br />Ms Highsmith's talent for building tension, suspense and sheer dread are even more marked in Ripley Under Water because we know what's going to happen - Ripley has done some bad things, and somebody is trying to get him into trouble for them. As a plot summary, that's  a non-story, but in the hands of Patricia Highsmith it's a taut and compelling thriller.<br />She gets us right inside Ripley's mind, a place with neither conscience nor much regret about his murders. His privileged existance, thanks to both his ill-gotten gains and the assets of his wealthy wife, is wonderfully<br />evoked, and we squirm at the creepiness of the Pritchards, his meddling new neighbours.<br />The waiting, while the reformed predator Ripley is himself preyed upon, is almost agonising. If you've seen the movie and don't like books where you know the ending, then start with this one. It'll scare and surprise you, it's simply a marvellous book.	2001-01-22
US	46132882	R22WICLHM5BUYK	0804118914	880926499	Monstrum	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Full blooded Russian serial killer thriller	I adore Gorky Park and all its sequels, and got this book purely because of the comparisons. In that respect, it doesn't disappoint.  Not only do we have a hero in the Arkardy Renko mould but all the other characters are here too, in one form or another - the prickly but dedicated female doctor/pathologist/coroner, the faithful sidekick, the political apparatchiks, the beautiful still-significant ex.<br />The 'life' of the feral kids, the homeless, and the dispossessed families, hiding in the undergrounds from dangers more real than imagined, is scary and probably closer than 2015, you get a hint of it in some big cities today.<br />There's a-grade gore and forensic detail too, for those who like that kind of thing. Some of the (anti-) political shenigans near the end were a bit far fetched, and the purpose behind the mutlations turns out to be a real 'Huh? Pull the other one!'. But if you don't worry too much about these, and you don't have to with so much else happening, it's an enjoyable book with plenty of atmosphere. (And if you like it, and haven't read Gorky Park yet, you know what to do...)	2001-01-22
US	46132882	R3E6Y06FHVD8EW	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	3	41	47	N	N	Everything but the kitchen sink	Lawyer/writer Penn Cage flees the big city after his wife Sarah dies, heading back to the hick town where he grew up. He's hoping that good old Mum and Dad will help heal his little daughter, distraught at the recent loss of her Mom.<br />But no sooner does Penn hit town when a beautiful local journalist (in a see-thru blouse...) makes him feel 'absolute proof that someone else will one day occupy the place that Sarah held in my life'. His poor daughter also rarely gets another mention as another beautiful girl from his past re-appears, and Penn finds himself drawn into a whopping cover-up encompassing no less than murder, blackmail, arson, money, illegitimacy, revenge, incest, white trash, rednecks, black pride, lawyers in love, civil rights, the Klan, JFK, J. Edgar Hoover, the full range of FBI and ex-FBI characters, and the assassinations of Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King - I kid you not.<br />The whole book's like this - an enjoyable holiday read, but too excessive. Too many conspiracies, too many stock characters, too much angst too often - is he involved for selfish or selfless reasons? and too many words, with action scenes taking pages and pages to describe. The main character somehow remains unknown - he does this, he does that, but you never feel you know what he's like - but you do get some wonderfully drawn minor characters, and the author doesn't avoid the pointy end of race relation issues.	2001-01-22
US	46132882	R3KQFUS8KNL034	0881847925	923787300	Find Me a Villain	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Tame and inoffensive, but no way a crime book	Some crime writers are just too understated for readers keen on continuous blood, gore and action - Patricia Highsmith comes to mind, a writer with whom this author has been (inaccurately) compared. This is the only Margaret Yorke book I've read, and I just don't get the purpose of it.<br />The book centers around Nina, a passive, restrained Englishwoman of small horizons - just the kind of person who might read this book, in fact. Stunned by her husband's desertion of her for the predatory and pregnant &quot;Miss Kitty-Cat&quot;, Nina accepts a house-sitting job at an obligatorily creepy English Manor house. She gets anonymous phone calls, suspects someone of some murders that are happening at the time, discovers a family secret, sees an accidental death - and that's it.<br />Margaret Yorke writes well, and makes us understand her characters, despite a plot so bland it just passed me by - she has written heaps of books, so maybe this one is just an aberration. There's none of the intricate detail and plotting of PD James, but if you want a gentle and genteel female self-discovery book with just a hint of murder in the background, then you might enjoy this. But if you want suspense and excitement, read elsewhere.	2001-01-22
US	46132882	R3VB63O4KNNAAR	0446601241	366731957	Kiss the Girls (Alex Cross)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Too many too perfect people	Kiss the Girls will while away a plane trip quite enjoyably, but doesn't really stand up to the best in crime fiction. It simply tries to get away with too much. The hero, detective/psychologist Dr Alex Cross, is too flawless to be credible even in the world of fictional renaissance-men-cum-detectives - a sensitive &amp; brilliant black detective with impeccable street cred. and talent in demand by the FBI, who drives a Porsche, plays jazz piano like a pro, and has the requisite mild emotional hangups with women.<br />His family are even more sitcom, saccharin-sweet kids and a endless supply of sassy, wise-cracking and/or beautiful female relations. Poor Dr Cross's life is an endless treadmill of: bond with kids, rush out to gruesome murders, bond with kids, rush out to gruesome murders...<br />There are 2 serial killers and kidnappings and mutilation galore, but none of this scares us. Just desribing some gory torture procedures in detail isn't enough without being to create the menace, tension and atmosphere that surrounds the acts - admittedly, very few crime authors can do this. The books starts out well but ends up losing itself with more implausabilities than it can get away with.<br />Dr Cross is matched by a hopelessly perfect female hero - so beautiful and dedicated and talented that the murderer loves her over all others, so tough she karate-kicks him and escapes, so lucky she only just escapes death, so clever the FBI need her to help catch the murderer, so stupid she goes straight back home where the killer broke in the first time whereby he breaks in again, so tough she fights him again, so lucky she just escapes death again...you get the picture.<br />Do read one of the Alex Cross books, and see what the fuss is about, they're not bad books, but to a great extent if you've read one you've read them all.	2001-01-16
US	46132882	R1OACPYQULNI2P	0385319673	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The high water mark of crime thrillers	I read Red Dragon 20 years and a world away from where it was set. On holiday in a tropical beach resort I lay in bed one night and began this book. The lights were bright, my husband was reading beside me, the kids were playing in the next bed, yet within a few minutes I was scared silly. I got up and barricaded the hotel door with suitcases. I woke several times that night and checked the kids were still alive.  Red Dragon is the most frightening book I've ever read, before or since.<br />Many serial killer books since have done the tough childhood - weird killer adult thing, but very, very few as effectively as Frances Dolarhyde, the self- anointed Red Dragon. The details of his possesion and obsession were compelling and terrifying, I barely kept from screaming 'NO!' at the blind girl who befriends him. Theirs must be the creepiest dates in all fiction - he amazed at being treated normally by someone who cannot see and be repulsed by his deformity, her with only tactile impressions of him yet heightened awareness of his 'differentness' from other men.<br />Like 'Lord of the Rings' and fantasy books, this book began and still sets the high water mark for crime thrillers. Barely any of the tide of crime books since come even close to it. It's even better than Silence of the Lambs. Read it - it's a 10 star book.	2001-01-15
US	46132882	R3UOS3MCMTVKPJ	0553582895	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An OK book in here somewhere, struggling to get out	This was my first Dean Koontz book and I found it SO verbose. Are they all like this?<br />It was written 6 years ago, but surely even then we were over things like paranoid anti-Government secret agencies, inscrutable Orientals, evil blonde busty mistresses who writhe naked on black rubber sheets, and heroines who hack into the DoD computer from the laptop in the back of the truck and manipulate death ray satellites, give us a break.<br />Taut writing it isn't. The book is overcome with completely unnecessary sentences overdescribing feelings or mundane details that add nothing to the story. On top of that the good guy's nauseatingly sweet dog appears every few pages, you could could extract a whole book about him alone.<br />What saves the book, and kept me reading, is a few well done major characters - the good guy is intriguing, the secret agent weird and creepy, and a truly bad guy - sane, urbane yet capable of shocking atrocities, a la Dr Lecter - pops up late in the book, but they're just buried in the prose.	2001-01-09
US	46132882	R11FSQIP6AG1AW	0515128635	531181286	Tripwire (Jack Reacher, No. 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Rambo of action books!	Remember those t-shirts that said, 'I wish I was deep instead of just macho' ?  Driven to investigate by his compassion for an elderly bereaved couple, Jack Reacher is gentlemanly enough to keep his hands right off his unrequited love, yet So Tough that bullets literally can't pierce his muscular chest.<br />The author does the Vietnam Vet fatigue and jungle combat thing really well, with a wide variety of military goodies and baddies. Even more of an accomplishment for a UK author (I read him say somewhere that he set his books in the US to attract the widest audience - will US readers not read books set elsewhere?)  It's predictable and a bit cartooney, but all the better for it - I enjoyed it, it's a fun, fast &amp; exciting book.	2000-12-27
US	46132882	RA7QSP628NYUI	0451409000	931515590	Messiah	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The most &quot;in-your-face&quot; murder book I've read!	There's nothing restrained about Messiah, a book awash with blood, mutilation, family conflicts and over the top religious symbolism.<br />Despite often patchy writing and some one-dimensional stereotyped secondary characters, Messiah manages to stay a class above the many other wannabe serial murder thrillers. Many other books also offer a twist at the end that supposedly, &quot;you'll never guess&quot;. In Messiah, a couple of times you think you spot it, but you really WON'T guess this one. Many books contrive human failings for their detective heroes to make them more realistic, but you'd never predict the true nature of Red Metcalfe, the complex and tortured main character of Messiah.<br />Read it, murder fans! DON'T flip to the last pages first! And if you enjoy this book, then don't miss Val McDermid's &quot;The Mermaids Singing&quot;, it's like this but even better, I promise...	2000-12-25
US	46132882	R1I76ICOW4B0Y6	0006493580	724236458	The Mermaids Singing	Books	5	25	27	N	N	THE absolute best serial murder book I've read in years!	A fantastically well-written, gritty drama that grabs you right in - I was scared by the end of the prologue!<br />All serial killer books compare themselves to Silence of the Lambs. I've read dozens of supposedly good ones since by all the major crime authors, and this is the first and only book that's been just as clever, creepy and well-characterized. <br />I just read Messiah, a similar blend of medieval torture with modern realism, and this is much better. It's not a gentle murder mystery by any means, but the gore and rough language fit right in with the story instead of being gratuitous, like they are in most murder books. <br />I'd only read one Val McDermid book before, one of the Kate Brannigan ones, which I didn't like at all, and got this book just to make up my library quota. It's hard to believe it's the same author - this is honestly one of the best crime books I've read. <br />It looks like this book is not available in the US, so it's probably not getting the readership it deserves. If you've been wanting a book as good as the early Thomas Harris ones, then this one's worth back-ordering - I can't recommend it highly enough.	2000-12-25
US	46132882	R2Y2UK7FHGKHUB	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book will change your reading habits	I bought this book at the airport purely because it was 50% off. Before this, I was reading PD James kind of murder books. I'd seen bits of the movie and it never grabbed me. But the book was another matter - I read from the moment I sat down to when I had to get off the plane. It was only a 3 hour flight so I could't finish the whole book - for the first and only time, I wished the flight was longer so I could go on reading undisturbed! I couldn't even put it down at mealtime, and had to eat with one hand, lucky airline food is so mushy. <br />This book really got me started and since then I've read many, many dozens of serial killer mysteries, trying for the same thrill. There are a very few books you wish you could erase from your memory, so you can read them for the first time again - this is one of them. The only other murder books as good, that I've found: Red Dragon, and Val McDermid's The Mermaids Singing.	2000-12-25
US	46132882	RILJUOWKD784K	0752827804	580164384	Dead Beat	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A competent tough-chick PI story	Val McDermid writes really well, though she's constrained here by the standard female PI formula. Kate Brannigan is smart and sassy, can't cook, does martial arts, understands computers, and all that required stuff. In fact, Kate's just a little bit too modern-girl to be true - she lets her boyfriend move next door, but to keep her own space, won't give him her key... that kind of thing, I am also so over the whole Rock Star lifestyle behind the scenes stuff, and end was very Agatha Christie - Kate revealing the killer's identity to the suspects assembled in the living room. But if you like female PI stories and want a change from VI Warshawski, then you could do a lot worse. And if you're into serial murder books, The Mermaids Singing, by the same author, is about the best one I've ever read.	2000-12-25
