US	46175519	R2NX68MBLY2V7R	0929150767	989967906	Drugs and Clients: What Every Psychotherapist Needs to Know	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A must for both professionals and their clients	A lucidly written, well-researched, fully updated survey of the field of psychopharmacology. Concise, eminently readable, thoroughly referenced, this gem of a book includes a tour d'horizon of various mental health problems - from sleep disorders to psychotic episodes. Each chapter reviews relevant medications and drugs, their effects, benefits, and dangers, as well as practical advice on how to administer and handle them. The clean and intuitive illustrations and tables enhance this tome's allure....Drugs and Clients is a must reference for anyone who deals with human suffering and the human mind. Sam Vaknin, author of Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited.	2004-08-18
US	46175519	R30S6KWURU1SR0	0974350478	55704151	0: When Your "Perfect Partner" Goes Perfectly Wrong: Loving Or Leaving The Narcissist In Your Life	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Boxxed In? This is the Book For You	The victims of the narcissist's abusive conduct feel hemmed in, trapped, isolated, and annulled. This book help them re-emerge and regain mastery of their lives. If you want to know what it is really like being the victim of relentless abuse by narcissists - buy this book. It masterfully combines numerous first hand accounts of survivors with a deep knowledge of the disorder. Recommended! Sam Vaknin, author of Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited.	2004-05-20
US	46175519	R14QICCIV6HVQW	0830816607	117331837	Healing Spiritual Abuse: How to Break Free from Bad Church Experience	Books	4	14	21	N	N	For the Love of God	The book deals effectively (though sometimes too expansively) with narcissistic and messianic leaders of churches and congregations. Priests, leaders of the congregation, preachers, evangelists, cultists, politicians, intellectuals - all derive authority from their allegedly privileged relationship with God.<br />Religious authority allows the narcissist to indulge his sadistic urges and to exercise his misogynism freely and openly. Such a narcissist is likely to taunt and torment his followers, hector and chastise them, humiliate and berate them, abuse them spiritually, or even sexually. The narcissist whose source of authority is religious is looking for obedient and unquestioning slaves upon whom to exercise his capricious and wicked mastery. The narcissist transforms even the most innocuous and pure religious sentiments into a cultish ritual and a virulent hierarchy. He preys on the gullible. His flock become his hostages.<br />Religious authority also secures the narcissist's Narcissistic Supply. His coreligionists, members of his congregation, his parish, his constituency, his audience - are transformed into loyal and stable Sources of Narcissistic Supply. They obey his commands, heed his admonitions, follow his creed, admire his personality, applaud his personal traits, satisfy his needs (sometimes even his carnal desires), revere and idolize him. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2004-05-02
US	46175519	R269LXCQN7M0M6	0060911514	911346535	The Myth of Mental Illness: Foundations of a Theory of Personal Conduct (Revised Edition)	Books	5	26	36	N	N	A Myth Indeed	Descriptive criteria aside, what is the essence of mental disorders? Are they merely physiological disorders of the brain, or, more precisely of its chemistry? If so, can they be cured by restoring the balance of substances and secretions in that mysterious organ? And, once equilibrium is reinstated - is the illness &quot;gone&quot; or is it still lurking there, &quot;under wraps&quot;, waiting to erupt? Are psychiatric problems inherited, rooted in faulty genes (though amplified by environmental factors) - or brought on by abusive or wrong nurturance?<br />These questions are the domain of the &quot;medical&quot; school of mental health.<br />Others cling to the spiritual view of the human psyche. They believe that mental ailments amount to the metaphysical discomposure of an unknown medium - the soul. Theirs is a holistic approach, taking in the patient in his or her entirety, as well as his milieu.<br />The members of the functional school regard mental health disorders as perturbations in the proper, statistically &quot;normal&quot;, behaviours and manifestations of &quot;healthy&quot; individuals, or as dysfunctions. The &quot;sick&quot; individual - ill at ease with himself (ego-dystonic) or making others unhappy (deviant) - is &quot;mended&quot; when rendered functional again by the prevailing standards of his social and cultural frame of reference.<br />In a way, the three schools are akin to the trio of blind men who render disparate descriptions of the very same elephant. Still, they share not only their subject matter - but, to a counter intuitively large degree, a faulty methodology.<br />As the renowned anti-psychiatrist, Thomas Szasz, of the State University of New York, notes in his article &quot;The Lying Truths of Psychiatry&quot;, mental health scholars, regardless of academic predilection, infer the etiology of mental disorders from the success or failure of treatment modalities.<br />This form of &quot;reverse engineering&quot; of scientific models is not unknown in other fields of science, nor is it unacceptable if the experiments meet the criteria of the scientific method. The theory must be all-inclusive (anamnetic), consistent, falsifiable, logically compatible, monovalent, and parsimonious. Psychological &quot;theories&quot; - even the &quot;medical&quot; ones (the role of serotonin and dopamine in mood disorders, for instance) - are usually none of these things.<br />The outcome is a bewildering array of ever-shifting mental health &quot;diagnoses&quot; expressly centred around Western civilisation and its standards (example: the ethical objection to suicide). Neurosis, a historically fundamental &quot;condition&quot; vanished after 1980. Homosexuality, according to the American Psychiatric Association, was a pathology prior to 1973. Seven years later, narcissism was declared a &quot;personality disorder&quot;, almost seven decades after it was first described by Freud.<br />Szasz is the father of the &quot;anti psychiatry&quot; movement and this is his best book - a riveting, mind boggling,scholarly read. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.ls is not unknown in other fields of science, nor is it unacceptable if the experiments meet the criteria of the scientific method. The theory must be all-inclusive (anamnetic), consistent, falsifiable, logically compatible, monovalent, and parsimonious. Psychological &quot;theories&quot; - even the &quot;medical&quot; ones (the role of serotonin and dopamine in mood disorders, for instance) - are usually none of these things.<br />The outcome is a bewildering array of ever-shifting mental health &quot;diagnoses&quot; expressly centred around Western civilisation and its standards (example: the ethical objection to suicide). Neurosis, a historically fundamental &quot;condition&quot; vanished after 1980. Homosexuality, according to the American Psychiatric Association, was a pathology prior to 1973. Seven years later, narcissism was declared a &quot;personality disorder&quot;, almost seven decades after it was first described by Freud.<br />Szasz is the father of the &quot;anti psychiatry&quot; movement and this is his best book - a riveting, mind boggling,scholarly read. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-29
US	46175519	R2UWEDA04C1D35	0670030287	571028958	Synaptic Self: How Our Brains Become Who We Are	Books	5	11	26	N	N	The Psychophysical Problem	The psychophysical problem is long standing and, probably, intractable. This book is an excellent introduction to the subject, bringing together strands from philosophy, neurology, psychology - and common sense based on observations.<br />We have a corporeal body. It is a physical entity, subject to all the laws of physics. Yet, we experience ourselves, our internal lives, external events in a manner which provokes us to postulate the existence of a corresponding, non-physical ontos, entity. This corresponding entity ostensibly incorporates a dimension of our being which, in principle, can never be tackled with the instruments and the formal logic of science.<br />A compromise was proposed long ago: the soul is nothing but our self awareness or the way that we experience ourselves. But this is a flawed solution. It is flawed because it assumes that the human experience is uniform, unequivocal and identical. It might well be so - but there is no methodologically rigorous way of proving it. We have no way to objectively ascertain that all of us experience pain in the same manner or that pain that we experience is the same in all of us. This is even when the causes of the sensation are carefully controlled and monitored.<br />A scientist might say that it is only a matter of time before we find the exact part of the brain which is responsible for the specific pain in our gedankenexperiment. Moreover, will add our gedankenscientist, in due course, science will even be able to demonstrate a monovalent relationship between a pattern of brain activity in situ and the aforementioned pain. In other words, the scientific claim is that the patterns of brain activity ARE the pain itself.<br />Such an argument is, prima facie, inadmissible. The fact that two events coincide (even if they do so forever) does not make them identical. The serial occurrence of two events does not make one of them the cause and the other the effect, as is well known. Similarly, the contemporaneous occurrence of two events only means that they are correlated. A correlate is not an alter ego. It is not an aspect of the same event. The brain activity is what appears WHEN pain happens - it by no means follows that it IS the pain itself.<br />A stronger argument would crystallize if it was convincingly and repeatedly demonstrated that playing back these patterns of brain activity induces the same pain. Even in such a case, we would be talking about cause and effect rather than identity of pain and its correlate in the brain.<br />This vade mecum is unlikely to end the debate but it provides a firm, fact based, evidence oriented foundation for its contnuance. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.currence of two events only means that they are correlated. A correlate is not an alter ego. It is not an aspect of the same event. The brain activity is what appears WHEN pain happens - it by no means follows that it IS the pain itself.<br />A stronger argument would crystallize if it was convincingly and repeatedly demonstrated that playing back these patterns of brain activity induces the same pain. Even in such a case, we would be talking about cause and effect rather than identity of pain and its correlate in the brain.<br />This vade mecum is unlikely to end the debate but it provides a firm, fact based, evidence oriented foundation for its contnuance. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-28
US	46175519	R1PJJD033SG6EH	0393703673	556070055	The Neuroscience of Psychotherapy: Building and Rebuilding the Human Brain (Norton Series on Interpersonal Neurobiology)	Books	5	19	57	N	N	Metaphors of the Mind	What this book does - splendidly - is nothing new. By grounding psychotherapy in the ins and outs of the brain it does both disciplines a favor. Yet, many scholars disparage any attempt to map psychotherapeutic insights into hard wired neurological facts.<br />The brain (and, by implication, the mind) have been compared to the latest technological innovation in every generation. The computer metaphor is now in vogue. Computer hardware metaphors were replaced by software metaphors and, lately, by (neuronal) network metaphors.<br />Metaphors are not confined to the philosophy of neurology. Architects and mathematicians, for instance, have lately come up with the structural concept of &quot;tensegrity&quot; to explain the phenomenon of life. The tendency of humans to see patterns and structures everywhere (even where there are none) is well documented and probably has its survival value.<br />Another trend is to discount these metaphors as erroneous, irrelevant, deceptive, and misleading. Understanding the mind is a recursive business, rife with self-reference. The entities or processes to which the brain is compared are also &quot;brain-children&quot;, the results of &quot;brain-storming&quot;, conceived by &quot;minds&quot;. What is a computer, a software application, a communications network if not a (material) representation of cerebral events?<br />A necessary and sufficient connection surely exists between man-made things, tangible and intangible, and human minds. Even a gas pump has a &quot;mind-correlate&quot;. It is also conceivable that representations of the &quot;non-human&quot; parts of the Universe exist in our minds, whether a-priori (not deriving from experience) or a-posteriori (dependent upon experience). This &quot;correlation&quot;, &quot;emulation&quot;, &quot;simulation&quot;, &quot;representation&quot; (in short : close connection) between the &quot;excretions&quot;, &quot;output&quot;, &quot;spin-offs&quot;, &quot;products&quot; of the human mind and the human mind itself - is a key to understanding it. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.nd and the human mind itself - is a key to understanding it. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-27
US	46175519	R37598IUM4FH2	0393703967	52422967	Healing Trauma: Attachment, Mind, Body and Brain (Norton Series on Interpersonal Neurobiology)	Books	5	67	90	N	N	Traumas as Social Interactions	We react to serious mishaps, life altering setbacks, disasters, abuse, and death by going through the phases of grieving. Traumas are the complex outcomes of psychodynamic and biochemical processes. But the particulars of traumas depend heavily on the interaction between the victim and his social milieu.<br />It would seem that while the victim progresses from denial to helplessness, rage, depression and thence to acceptance of the traumatizing events - society demonstrates a diametrically opposed progression. This incompatibility, this mismatch of psychological phases is what leads to the formation and crystallization of trauma.<br />This book is a collection of important and incisive insights, by a variety of authors, from different schools of psychology, into the interaction between traumatic processes and attachment modalities and disorders. Indispensable. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-26
US	46175519	R31T0HR3FFLGY4	1568212348	210419561	Fragile Self: The Structure of Narcissistic Disturbance and Its Therapy	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Psychic Murder Syndrome	Mollon is a prolific popularizer of obscure psychological theories with a clear preference for Self Psychology (Kohut) and Object Relations Theories. This book should be read in conjunction with both the original masterpieces he explores - and his own opus.<br />Mollon's departure point is the hostile voices within the fragmented self and their curious and rigid hold on the psyche. He attributes these to dysfunctional caregiving by abusive caregivers.<br />This leads to the disintegration of self structures and the eruption of psychodynamic conflict. A False Self emerges to repress the True Self.<br />The author studies other, similar, mental states (drug-induced, or in art) and borrows insights from philosophers such as Lacan.<br />The book is full with enlightening case studies, suggested treatment modalities, and Mollon's own experiences. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-23
US	46175519	R3MAMXWD3AIXW0	0823680029	533170579	Analysis of the Self: Systematic Approach to Treatment of Narcissistic Personality Disorders	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Dixit Magister	Despite being identified with an idiosyncratic approach to the concept of self - known as Self Psychology - Kohut shapes our modern understanding of narcissism, both healthy and pathological.<br />He said that pathological narcissism is not the result of excessive narcissism, libido or aggression.<br />It is the result of defective, deformed or incomplete narcissistic (self) structures. Kohut postulated the existence of core constructs which he named: the Grandiose Exhibitionistic Self and the Idealized Parent Imago (see below). Children entertain notions of greatness (primitive or naive grandiosity) mingled with magical thinking, feelings of omnipotence and omniscience and a belief in their immunity to the consequences of their actions. These elements and the child's feelings regarding its parents (which are also painted by it with a brush of omnipotence and grandiosity) - coagulate and form these constructs.<br />The child's feelings towards its parents are reactions to their responses (affirmation, buffering, modulation or disapproval, punisment, even abuse).<br />These responses help maintain the self-structures. Without the appropriate responses, grandiosity, for instance, cannot be transformed into adult ambitions and ideals.<br />To Kohut, grandiosity and idealization were positive childhood development mechanisms. Even their reappearance in transference should not be considered a pathological narcissistic regression. am Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-22
US	46175519	RLADOYPBP2S8X	0415064643	394475966	Individuation and Narcissism: The Psychology of Self in Jung and Kohut (Routledge Mental Health Classic Editions)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Kohut and Jung	No other concept in depth psychology provoked so much controversy and spawned so many schools of thought as the Self. This book is a magnificent tour d'horizon, spanning the crucial decades from Freud to Jung and therefrom to Kohut.<br />The book demonstrates that, in a way, Heinz Kohut merely took Jung a step further and invented a new vocabulary to rephrase some of Jung's insights. He said that pathological narcissism is not the result of excessive narcissism, libido or aggression.<br />It is the result of defective, deformed or incomplete narcissistic (self) structures. Kohut postulated the existence of core constructs which he named: the Grandiose Exhibitionistic Self and the Idealized Parent Imago (see below). Children entertain notions of greatness (primitive or naive grandiosity) mingled with magical thinking, feelings of omnipotence and omniscience and a belief in their immunity to the consequences of their actions. These elements and the child's feelings regarding its parents (which are also painted by it with a brush of omnipotence and grandiosity) - coagulate and form these constructs.<br />The child's feelings towards its parents are reactions to their responses (affirmation, buffering, modulation or disapproval, punisment, even abuse).<br />These responses help maintain the self-structures. Without the appropriate responses, grandiosity, for instance, cannot be transformed into adult ambitions and ideals.<br />To Kohut, grandiosity and idealization were positive childhood development mechanisms. Even their reappearance in transference should not be considered a pathological narcissistic regression. am Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-21
US	46175519	RHOP2Y87NB7EV	1572240806	31112158	The Angry Heart: Overcoming Borderline and Addictive Disorders	Books	4	16	23	N	N	The Regimen of Healing	Personality disorders are a relatively new diagnostic area. The ICD-10 (the equivalent of the DSM-IV) doesn't even recognize some of them as separate disorders (e.g., the Narcissistic Personality Disorder). Others are controversial even in the USA (Borderline, Antisocial, Schizotypal). Textbooks are, therefore, of limited use to both practitioners and sufferers.<br />Sorely needed are self-help books that guide the perplexed through a regimen of exercises and coping strategies, an interactive framework which rests on current knowledge, and an organizing principle to tie it all together. This book offers all three abundantly. It is bound to be of help to therapists, self-help groups, victims of the disorder, and their nearest and dearest. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-20
US	46175519	R1W7AB9S2PJSY1	0415934710	407269555	The Narcissistic / Borderline Couple: New Approaches to Marital Therapy	Books	5	61	67	N	N	The Danse Macabre	It takes two to tango - and to sustain a long-term abusive relationship. The abuser and the abused form a bond, a dynamic, and a dependence. Expressions such as &quot;follies a deux&quot; and the &quot;Stockholm Syndrome (Trauma Bonding)&quot; capture facets - two of a myriad - of this danse macabre. It often ends fatally. It is always an excruciatingly painful affair.<br />Lachkar's grossly overlooked book is the best introduction I know of to abusive dyads comprised of two people with personality disorders. Replete with case studies and an impressive theoretical background (mainly, but not only, Object Relations Theories) - the book is a vade mecum for both professionals and sufferers.<br />There is more to an abusive dyad than mere pecuniary convenience. The abuser - stealthily but unfailingly - exploits the vulnerabilities in the psychological makeup of his victim. The abused party may have low self-esteem, a fluctuating sense of self-worth, primitive defence mechanisms, phobias, mental health problems, a disability, a history of failure, or a tendency to blame herself, or to feel inadequate (autoplastic neurosis). She may have come from an abusive family or environment - which conditioned her to expect abuse as inevitable and &quot;normal&quot;. In extreme and rare cases - the victim is a masochist, possessed of an urge to seek ill-treatment and pain. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2004-04-19
US	46175519	RAYK7GKKT7GWO	0465033881	773977088	The Batterer: A Psychological Profile	Books	5	6	11	N	N	The Surreal Mind of the Abuser	A much-needed exposition of the habitual batterer's mind, based on hundreds of real-life cases. This book expels the myth that there is a &quot;typical&quot; abuser. There isn't. Abuse cuts across all professions, social-economic strata, levels of income and education, ethnic and cultural backgrounds, and location.<br />To embark on our exploration of the abusive mind, we first need to agree on a taxonomy of abusive behaviours. Methodically observing abuse is the surest way of getting to know the perpetrators.<br />Abusers appear to be suffering from dissociation (multiple personality). At home, they are intimidating and suffocating monsters - outdoors, they are wonderful, caring, giving, and much-admired pillars of the community. Why this duplicity?<br />It is only partly premeditated and intended to disguise the abuser's acts. More importantly, it reflects the his inner world, where the victims are nothing but two-dimensional representations, objects, devoid of emotions and needs, or mere extensions of his self. Thus, to the abuser's mind, his quarries do not merit humane treatment, nor do they evoke empathy. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-12-11
US	46175519	R27E7SZTL35BX1	0803948212	908476365	Conducting Child Custody Evaluations: A Comprehensive Guide	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A Guide to the Perplexed	A surprisingly fresh and impressively comprehensive guide to the convoluted process of custody evaluations. The need for these court-mandated evaluations arises when one of the parents - often, the father - is a repeat offender, an abuser.<br />Abusers are thought by practitioners of psychology to be emotionally disturbed, the twisted outcomes of a history of familial violence and childhood traumas. They are typically diagnosed as suffering from a personality disorder, an inordinately low self-esteem, or codependence coupled with an all-devouring fear of abandonment. Consummate abusers use the right vocabulary and feign the appropriate \\"emotions\\" and affect and, thus, sway the evaluator's judgment.<br />As Lundy Bancroft correctly observes, Confronted with this contrast between a polished, self-controlled, and suave abuser and his harried casualties - it is easy to reach the conclusion that the real victim is the abuser, or that both parties abuse each other equally. The prey's acts of self-defense, assertiveness, or insistence on her rights are interpreted as aggression, lability, or a mental health problem.<br />The book draws attention to these pitfalls and provides a through description of the system and its protagonists. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-12-06
US	46175519	R26927XYAWF5YP	0060928972	297500558	Emotional Blackmail: When the People in Your Life Use Fear, Obligation, and Guilt to Manipulate You	Books	5	49	70	N	N	The Guilt of the Abused	This book describes insightfully the danse macabre that is the abuser-victim dyad. Self-flagellation is a characteristic of those who choose to live with a narcissist (and a choice it is). Constant guilt feelings, self-reproach, self-recrimination and, thus - self-punishment typify the relationships formed between the sadist-narcissist and the masochistic-dependent mate or partner.<br />The narcissist projects his inner turmoil and drags everyone around him into a swirl of bitterness, suspiciousness, meanness, aggression and pettiness. His life is a reflection of his psychological landscape: barren, paranoiac, tormented, guilt ridden. He feels compelled to do unto others what he perpetrates unto himself. He gradually transforms all around him into replicas of his conflictive, punishing personality structures.<br />Some narcissists are more subtle than others. They disguise their sadism. For instance, they &quot;educate&quot; their nearest and dearest (for their sake, as they present it). This \\"education\\" is compulsive, obsessive, incessantly, harshly and unduly critical. Its effect is to erode the subject, to humiliate, to create dependence, to intimidate, to restrain, to control, to paralyse.<br />The narcissist deliberately confuses responsibility with guilt and demands compensation for his or her &quot;sacrifices&quot;. By provoking guilt in responsibility-laden situations, the narcissist transforms life with him into a constant trial.<br />The narcissist-victim dyad is a conspiracy, a collusion of victim and mental tormentor, a collaboration of two needy people who find solace and supply in each other's deviations. Only by breaking loose, by aborting the game, by ignoring the rules - can the victim be transformed (and by the way, acquire the newly found appreciation of the narcissist).<br />The narcissist's partner should not feel guilty or responsible and should not seek to change what only time (not even therapy) and (difficult) circumstances may change. She should not strive to please and to appease, to be and not to be, to barely survive as a superposition of pain and fear. Releasing herself from the chains of guilt and from the throes of a debilitating relationship - is the best help that a loving mate can provide to her ailing narcissistic partner. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.e should not strive to please and to appease, to be and not to be, to barely survive as a superposition of pain and fear. Releasing herself from the chains of guilt and from the throes of a debilitating relationship - is the best help that a loving mate can provide to her ailing narcissistic partner. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-11-23
US	46175519	R147SE85MVOXKD	0972072837	926157713	The Wizard of Oz and Other Narcissists: Coping with the One-Way Relationship in Work, Love, and Family	Books	5	29	40	N	N	The Narcissist As Alien	The world of the narcissist is so outlandish, his behavior so unpredictable and seemingly irrational, and the narcissist himself (50-75% of all narcissists are men, according to the DSM IV-TR) so alien - that a guided tour in layman's terms was sorely neded.<br />And this is precisely what Ms. Payson provides - a down to earth, nuts and bolts manual of the narcissist - his impact on others in various relationships and practical tips, backed by case studies of how to cope with him. Recommended. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-11-23
US	46175519	R3S11NPNHJ28LE	0844740500	603508749	The Ethics of Human Cloning	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Two Sides of the Clone	This slim volume is an excellent introduction to the multifaceted issues involved in cloning.<br />There are two types of cloning. One involves harvesting stem cells from embryos (\\"therapeutic cloning\\"). These are the biological equivalent of a template. They can develop into any kind of mature functional cell and thus help cure many degenerative and auto-immune diseases.<br />The other kind of cloning is much decried in popular culture - and elsewhere - as the harbinger of a Brave, New World. A nucleus from any cell of a donor is embedded in an egg whose own nucleus has been removed. The egg is then implanted in a woman's womb and a cloned baby is born nine months later. Biologically, the cloned infant is a replica of the donor.<br />Cloning is often confused with other advances in bio-medicine and bio-engineering - such as genetic selection. It cannot - in itself - be used to produce \\"perfect humans\\" or select sex or other traits. Hence, some of the arguments against cloning are either specious or fuelled by ignorance.<br />It is true, though, that cloning, used in conjunction with other bio-technologies, raises serious bio-ethical questions. Scare scenarios of humans cultivated in sinister labs as sources of spare body parts, \\"designer babies\\", \\"master races\\", or \\"genetic sex slaves\\" - formerly the preserve of B sci-fi movies - have invaded mainstream discourse.<br />Still, cloning touches upon Mankind's most basic fears and hopes. It invokes the most intractable ethical and moral dilemmas. As an inevitable result, the debate is often more passionate than informed. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\"	2003-11-22
US	46175519	R289MCT5YGQW30	0553381407	184585252	Toxic Parents: Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy and Reclaiming Your Life	Books	4	12	38	N	N	A Narcissist is Born	The authors review the outcomes of toxic parenthood, one of which is pathological narcissism. The toxicity is rarely in the overt forms of verbal, sexual, physical, or psychological abuse (the overwhelming view) - and often the sad result of spoiling the child and idolizing it (Millon, late Freud).<br />But one should adopt a more comprehensive definition of \\"abuse\\". Overweening, smothering, spoiling, overvaluing, and idolizing the child - are all forms of parental abuse.<br />This is because, as Horney pointed out, the child is dehumanized and instrumentalized. His parents love him not for what he really is - but for what they wish and imagine him to be: the fulfilment of their dreams and frustrated wishes. The child becomes the vessel of his parents' discontented lives, a tool, the magic brush with which they can transform their failures into successes, their humiliation into victory, their frustrations into happiness. The child is taught to ignore reality and to occupy the parental fantastic space. Such an unfortunate child feels omnipotent and omniscient, perfect and brilliant, worthy of adoration and entitled to special treatment. The faculties that are honed by constantly brushing against bruising reality - empathy, compassion, a realistic assessment of one's abilities and limitations, realistic expectations of oneself and of others, personal boundaries, team work, social skills, perseverance and goal-orientation, not to mention the ability to postpone gratification and to work hard to achieve it - are all lacking or missing altogether. The child turned adult sees no reason to invest in his skills and education, convinced that his inherent genius should suffice. He feels entitled for merely being, rather than for actually doing (rather as the nobility in days gone by felt entitled not by virtue of its merit but as the inevitable, foreordained outcome of its birth right). In short: a narcissist is born. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".visited\\".	2003-11-22
US	46175519	RFAHDKKU5XILJ	1558505822	37880475	The Verbally Abusive Relationship: How to Recognize It and How to Respond	Books	5	10	18	N	N	A Vademecum to Abuse	There are many ways to abuse. To love too much is to abuse. It is tantamount to treating someone as an extension, an object, or an instrument of gratification. To be over-protective, not to respect privacy, to be brutally honest, with a sadistic sense of humour, or consistently tactless - is to abuse.<br />To expect too much, to denigrate, to ignore - are all modes of abuse. There is physical abuse, verbal abuse, psychological abuse, sexual abuse. The list is long. Most abusers abuse surreptitiously. They are \\"stealth abusers\\". You have to actually live with one in order to witness the abuse.<br />Evans concentrates on verbal (and, thus, psychological) abuse. She offers a detailed classification of such abusive conduct and a cornucopia of coping methods. Her book is an indispensable primer to victims of abuse, scholars, judges, policemen, guardians ad litem, psychological evaluators and family members of abusers. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-11-21
US	46175519	R3V385R98ZWC5G	0395903718	774089142	The Life and Death of Adolf Hitler	Books	4	5	9	N	N	The Inverted Saint	Hitler's lebensraum colonial movement - Nazism - possessed all the hallmarks of an institutional religion: priesthood, rites, rituals, temples, worship, catechism, mythology. Hitler was this religion's ascetic saint. He monastically denied himself earthly pleasures (or so he claimed) in order to be able to dedicate himself fully to his calling. Hitler was a monstrously inverted Jesus, sacrificing his life and denying himself so that (Aryan) humanity should benefit. By surpassing and suppressing his humanity, Hitler became a distorted version of Nietzsche's \\"superman\\".<br />But being a-human or super-human also means being a-sexual and a-moral. In this restricted sense, Hitler was a post-modernist and a moral relativist. He projected to the masses an androgynous figure and enhanced it by fostering the adoration of nudity and all things \\"natural\\". But what Nazism referred to as \\"nature\\" was not natural at all.<br />It was an aesthetic of decadence and evil (though it was not perceived this way by the Nazis), carefully orchestrated, and artificial. Nazism was about reproduced copies, not about originals. It was about the manipulation of symbols - not about veritable atavism.<br />In short: Nazism was about theatre, not about life. To enjoy the spectacle (and be subsumed by it), Nazism demanded the suspension of judgment, depersonalization, and de-realization. Catharsis was tantamount, in Nazi dramaturgy, to self-annulment. Nazism was nihilistic not only operationally, or ideologically. Its very language and narratives were nihilistic. Nazism was conspicuous nihilism - and Hitler served as a role model, annihilating Hitler the Man, only to re-appear as Hitler the stychia. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\"	2003-11-20
US	46175519	R2M1E3JUHRF1VV	1572304510	459490876	Without Conscience: The Disturbing World of the Psychopaths Among Us	Books	5	84	92	N	N	The Definitive Text on the Psychopath	In this seminal textbook, Robert Hare, distinguishes psychopathy from mere antisocial behavior, the main criterion used by the DSM-IV-TR to diagnose the Antisocial Personality Disorder.<br /><br />The disorder appears in early adolescence but criminal behavior and substance abuse often abate with age, usually by the fourth or fifth decade of life. It may have a genetic or hereditary determinant and afflicts mainly men. The diagnosis is controversial and regarded by some scholar as scientifically unfounded.<br /><br />Psychopaths regard other people as objects to be manipulated and instruments of gratification and utility. They have no discernible conscience, are devoid of empathy and find it difficult to perceive other people's nonverbal cues, needs, emotions, and preferences. Consequently, the psychopath rejects other people's rights and his commensurate obligations. He is impulsive, reckless, irresponsible and unable to postpone gratification. He often rationalizes his behavior showing an utter absence of remorse for hurting or defrauding others.<br /><br />Their (primitive) defence mechanisms include splitting (they view the world - and people in it - as \\"all good\\" or \\"all evil\\"), projection (attribute their own shortcomings unto others) and projective identification (force others to behave the way they expect them to).<br /><br />The psychopath fails to comply with social norms. Hence the criminal acts, the deceitfulness and identity theft, the use of aliases, the constant lying, and the conning of even his nearest and dearest for gain or pleasure. Psychopaths are unreliable and do not honor their undertakings, obligations, contracts, and responsibilities. They rarely hold a job for long or repay their debts. They are vindictive, remorseless, ruthless, driven, dangerous, aggressive, violent, irritable, and, sometimes, prone to magical thinking. They seldom plan for the long and medium terms, believing themselves to be immune to the consequences of their own actions. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".alignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-11-19
US	46175519	R1I9C69IYN17FH	0812910826	662695465	Inside the Criminal Mind	Books	4	8	11	N	N	The Calculus of Crime	Criminals have to hit bottom before they change. Criminals strive to maximize benefit to cost. This simple truth - that criminals, psychopaths, and narcissists cannot be healed, treated, cured, or rehabilitated - is at the heart of Samenow's controversial and thought-provoking tome.<br />Criminals regard others as objects, or instruments of gratification and utility. They manipulate them with indifference and ease because they have no conscience, empathy or the ability to perceive other people's nonverbal cues, needs, emotions, and preferences.<br />Many criminals are psychopaths. They recognize no one's rights and their own commensurate obligations. They are impulsive, reckless, irresponsible and unable to postpone gratification. They often rationalize their antisocial behaviors.<br />Criminals cannot be relied on to honor their commitments and  obligations, contracts, and responsibilities, to hold a job for long or to repay their debts. Thus, rehabilitation is meaningless - a ploy to secure a reduced sentence and an aid to recidivism. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-11-19
US	46175519	R3GFMZG1L5HSRQ	1840462450	172205463	Narcissism (Ideas in Psychoanalysis)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Introduction to Narcissism	A surprisingly thorough introduction to pathological narcissism, its formation, phenomenology, effects and treatment options. Though the book is biased in favor of the various psychoanalytic schools (e.g., Object Relations), it is still a great value. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2003-11-16
US	46175519	R1RR6RBTTPS99E	0823681572	504385266	The Narcissistic Pursuit of Perfection	Books	4	3	6	N	N	The Perfect Self-destruction	This book straddles the divide between textbook and a self-help tome. It is full with analyses of cases - from the literary to the real and will, probably, be of value mostly to therapists. Its main subject is the narcissist's self-destruction in its attempt at perfection. There are a few types of narcissistic self-destructive and self defeating behaviours. The Self-Punishing, Guilt-Purging Behaviours are intended to inflict punishment and to provide the punished party with a feeling of instant relief. This is very reminiscent of a compulsive-ritualistic behavior. The person harbors guilt. It could be an \\"ancient\\" guilt, a \\"sexual\\" guilt (Freud), or a \\"social\\" guilt. He internalized and introjected voices of meaningful others that consistently and convincingly and from positions of authority informed him that he is no good, guilty, deserving of punishment or retaliation, corrupt. His life is thus transformed into an on-going trial. The constancy of this trial, the never adjourning tribunal IS the punishment. It is Kafka's \\"trial\\": meaningless, undecipherable, never-ending, leading to no verdict, subject to mysterious and fluid laws and presided by capricious judges. Then there are the Extracting Behaviours. People with Personality Disorders (PDs) are very afraid of real, mature, intimacy. Intimacy is formed not only within a couple, but also in a workplace, in a neighbourhood, with friends, while collaborating on a project. Intimacy is another word for emotional involvement, which is the result of interactions in constant and predictable (safe) proximity. PDs interpret intimacy (not DEPENDENCE, but intimacy) as strangulation, the snuffing of freedom, death in installments. They are terrorized by it. The self-destructive and self-defeating acts are intended to dismantle the very foundation of a successful relationship, a career, a project, or a friendship. NPDs (narcissists), for instance, feel elated and relieved after they unshackle these \\"chains\\". They feel they broke a siege, that they are liberated, free at last. Last, but not rare, there are the Default Behaviours. We are all afraid of new situations, new possibilities, new challenges, new circumstances and new demands. Being healthy, being successful, getting married, becoming a mother, or someone's boss - are often abrupt breaks with the past. Some self-defeating behaviors are intended to preserve the past, to restore it, to protect it from the winds of change, to inertially avoid opportunities. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".roke a siege, that they are liberated, free at last. Last, but not rare, there are the Default Behaviours. We are all afraid of new situations, new possibilities, new challenges, new circumstances and new demands. Being healthy, being successful, getting married, becoming a mother, or someone's boss - are often abrupt breaks with the past. Some self-defeating behaviors are intended to preserve the past, to restore it, to protect it from the winds of change, to inertially avoid opportunities. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-11-16
US	46175519	R3J693752VQ937	0876302924	411494223	The Narcissistic and Borderline Disorders: An Integrated Developmental Approach	Books	4	33	45	N	N	Narcissism Unveiled	If you want to learn more about pathological narcissism, borderline conditions and other low-organization personalities - this book is for you. Essentially a textbook, it is a surprisingly interesting read (case studies intersdpersed). Some professional jargon and the book's bias in favour of psychodynamic theories may make best as a second read about narcissism. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2003-11-16
US	46175519	R3HJ4AVPM24M2M	0767910230	89353438	The Productive Narcissist: The Promise and Peril of Visionary Leadership	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Harnessing Narcissism	The book teaches how to harness malignant or pathological narcissism. Narcissists are driven, visionary, ambitious, exciting and productive, and if handled properly - an asset to the corporation. While I do not share the author's view - the book is an impressive achievement and of use both in the academic and in the corporate setting. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-11-16
US	46175519	REBCNWZDOM04T	0393309169	761310869	Narcissism and Intimacy: Love and Marriage in an Age of Confusion	Books	4	32	40	N	N	Narcissism and Intimacy	A defining dimension of pathological narcissism is the inability to foster and maintain intimacy. Intimacy is not only feared - it is despised because it is perceived as 'common' and 'degrading'. The narcissist idealizes his sources of narcissistic supply and then habitually discards and devalues them. This book is instrumental both as a somewhat iconoclastic introduction to narcissism and as an anatomy of the frustration that is life with a narcissist. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-11-16
US	46175519	R14XNUN8IRCTO6	0786015500	742551907	Perfect Poison: A Female Serial Killer's Deadly Medicine	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Profile of Death	It is a blood-curdling page turner. But it is also a meticulously researched study of the inner recesses of the mind of a psychopathic narcissist. The incredible story of Kristen H. Gilbert, a VA nurse who murdered her patients, probably to show off, especially to her paramour, the facility's security guard. The book is a parallel anatomy of the disintegration of a personality - and the merciless slayings of veterans, young and old. It also provides a breathtaking and intimate view of how ER and ICU operate in modern medical facilities and how vulnerable these are to manipulation and worse. The book is refreshingly politically incorrect. The author makes no secret of what he thinks of his subject and her unspeakable acts. But, like a good detective, he never loses track of the scent. The plot thickens, the tension mounts, the reader is constantly kept guessing and on the edge of his seat. The only regrettable thing is that this superb thriller is based on real events. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-08-09
US	46175519	R1EJ01BY4XJ3DG	0967529816	81250958	Real Stories, Untold Truths	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Who are you, J.C.?	Who is J.C.?  What is hidden behind the amiable facade of an unusually engaging and intelligent homeless?  How did he go from evident riches and expensive education to rags and worse?  In a page turner of a book, Laurie Anthony describes her quest for answers to this baffling riddle - a mission that ultimately proves to be a path of painful self-discovery as well.<br />The book is an inter-racial and inter-gender odyssey, shuttling back and forth between serene Ohio and a multi-faceted Manhattan, between the 1950s and the present, between the author's own family and J.C.'s.  One step forward - J.C.  finds an apartment and buys a car - is invariably and dishearteningly followed by (at least) two steps back - J.C.  again estranged from his children, whom he hasn't seen in decades.<br />Gradually, the dark secrets, the black holes at the core of the J.C.  galaxy of contradictory behaviors and traits - emerge.  As they unfold, this riveting book rivals any thriller I have read.  It is also an excellent primer to the inner world of the narcissistic psychopath.  A must!<br />Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;	2003-07-23
US	46175519	R1NMD9H9FJM36A	0738843180	342496974	You Walk on the Land Until One Day the Land Walks on You	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Flowers of Exile	There is no exile worse than the internal kind. There is no pain greater than the pain of alienation. There is no craving stronger than the desire to be seen. There is no urge more urgent than longing to belong. And there is no one who knows these truths more than Moshe Benarroche and who expresses them more faithfully. Whether in straightfoward and wistfull narrative, or in fantastic and naively colourful prose, Moshe is there and you are there, surrounded by generations past and engulfed by an all-pervasive yearning. His poetry is an hand extended, an ablution, the smells of childhood, the silent scream of the suppressed and the ignored and the mocked. Moshe knows that the meek shall inherit the earth - but the price is dear. The lost is never found. There is no resurrection in his poems, just a netherland of peripatetic people, looking to connect, looking to comprehend - ultimately, striving to be. A tour de force. But it - and learn Hebrew to read his other tomes. I can't remember the last time that an author's work kept me awake and talking to myself.	2003-07-19
US	46175519	R39A2LTCWU4895	0071406085	711716983	The Seasons of Your Career : How to Master the Cycles of Career Change	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Rare Beast	A rare beast this - jargon-free, down-to-earth, one hundred percent useful career advice! This slender tome contains in 144 pages more than thickset predecessors did in a thousand.<br />The author's premise is promisingly simple: careers and jobs go through seasonal changes. Spring is time for rejuvenation, energy, and initiative. Summer is the peak of one's professional achievements. Autumn is inertial and tired. Winter is both unsettling (as in being fired) and exciting (as in embarking on a new career).<br />The authors identify the risks associated with each season as well as the opportunities it holds. Easy to fulfill questionnaires drive this journey of self-discovery and re-emergence. The results are often surprising and thought-provoking.<br />Highly recommended and worth every cent (or penny).<br />Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-06-29
US	46175519	R2542OZ3G8EC08	0195137833	764541123	Bad Boys, Bad Men: Confronting Antisocial Personality Disorder	Books	4	10	13	N	N	The Bad Seeds	Genetic determinism has been with us since the bible. Recent advances in genome and proteome studies debunk both radical claims: \\"people are born bad\\" (bad seeds hypothesis) and \\"people are corrupted by bad parents and society\\" (the tabula rasa approach). It seems that genes and environment interact, recursively influencing each other. So are crime and moral dissolution hereditary mental disorders - or learned behavior patterns? The author votes for the former in this impressive but accessible introductory text, replete with dozens of case studies and recent scientific data. Still, social and domestic ills such as abuse and poverty, admits Black, a psychiatrist, play a role, at least in unlocking the criminal \\"potential\\". One should applaud the author's honesty in admitting his own profession's helplessness in the face of these depraved and largely untreatable personality disorders. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-06-25
US	46175519	RYHHIGH7GKYYB	0451527747	718203903	Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Gathering Storm	A prophetic tome which foretold the gathering storm of the 20th century: moral relativism, social disintegration, lethal authoritarianism, the absurd. A dark, haunting and disturbing masterpiece masterfully disguised as a nursery tale. Sam Vaknin, author of Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited.	2003-06-25
US	46175519	R2QWBUE5B2C8OD	076570255X	320805918	Broken Structures: Severe Personality Disorders and Their Treatment	Books	4	10	25	N	N	Objects, not Relations	With an introduction by the doyen of the field, Otto Kernmberg, the book sails off to a good start. Akhtar is a prolific scholar of personality disorders. This tome is typically lucid and borrows from a deep theoretical background coupled with a rich clinical experience. Yet, it is largely confined to the vantage point of Object Relations theory and, therefore, lacks coverage of recent advances in treatment modailties as diverse as Cognitive-Behavioral Therapies, Gestalt, NLP, and others. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-06-25
US	46175519	RC865L8WDGOJB	1573927015	368578256	Antisocial Behavior: Personality Disorders from Hostility to Homicide	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A Social Disorder	A Social Disorder<br />Wolman explores the foundations of antisocial behavior: pathological narcissism, self-indulgent culture, and promiscuous parenting. In an age of political correctness and moral relativism, the author does not hesitate to point to ethical upbringing as the solution. He traces the psychodynamics of deviant behavior back to childhood abuse and trauma - though he regrettably emphasizes nurture almost to the exclusion of nature. The book could use editing - but it is a worthwhile contribution to the topic. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-06-25
US	46175519	R2TU3WFK6ER0Q9	1568213778	917914805	Alcoholism, Narcissism, and Psychopathology (The Master Work Series)	Books	5	30	35	N	N	The Addicted Narcissist	To attribute alcoholism to narcissistic regression is both commonplace and controversial. But there a less convoluted clinical \\"handle\\": Pathological narcissism is an addiction to narcissistic supply, the narcissist's drug of choice. It is, therefore, not surprising that other addictive and reckless behaviors - workaholism, alcoholism, drug abuse, pathological gambling, compulsory shopping, or reckless driving - piggyback on this primary dependence.<br />The narcissist - like other types of addicts - derives pleasure from these exploits. But they also sustain and enhance his grandiose fantasies as \\"unique\\", \\"superior\\", \\"entitled\\", and \\"chosen\\". They place him above the laws and pressures of the mundane and away from the humiliating and sobering demands of reality. They render him the center of attention - but also place him in \\"splendid isolation\\" from the madding and inferior crowd.<br />Such compulsory and wild pursuits provide a psychological exoskeleton. They are a substitute to quotidian existence. They afford the narcissist with an agenda, with timetables, goals, and faux achievements. The narcissist's addictive behaviors take his mind off his inherent limitations, inevitable failures, painful and much-feared rejections, and the grandiosity gap - the abyss between the image he projects (the False Self) and the injurious truth. They relieve his anxiety and resolve the tension between his unrealistic expectations and inflated self-image - and his incommensurate achievements, position, status, recognition, intelligence, wealth, and physique.<br />Thus, there is no point in treating the dependence and recklessness of the narcissist without first treating the underlying personality disorder. The narcissist's addictions serve deeply ingrained emotional needs. They intermesh seamlessly with the pathological structure of his disorganized personality, with his character faults, and primitive defense mechanisms.<br />Hence the importance of this book: it unflinchingly exposes the roots of alcoholism and attributes it to an identity disturbance, paranoia, sadomasochism and obsessive- compulsive disorders. The author's rich experience is evident in each and every page. A documentary treasure trove - if not a theoretical masterpiece. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".xposes the roots of alcoholism and attributes it to an identity disturbance, paranoia, sadomasochism and obsessive- compulsive disorders. The author's rich experience is evident in each and every page. A documentary treasure trove - if not a theoretical masterpiece. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-06-21
US	46175519	RXRXJT16F7PTL	0300050038	265730222	Aggression in Personality Disorders and Perversions	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Infant and the Deviant	Kernberg has arguably contributed more than anyone - even more than Kohut - to the understanding of borderline conditions and pathological narcissism.<br />He is both a formidable theoretician and an outstanding clinician. This - a small part of his prodigious and erudite output - is a detailed and scholarly study of the role played in the dynamics of relationships by narcissism, aggression - both self-directed (as in masochism) and other-directed (as in sadism) - and the resulting perversions. It is disturbing to learn how central the role of hatred, envy and other transformations of aggression is in relationships and in antisocial behavior. There is a direct path from regressive infantilism to psychosis and sexual deviance (and one may add to political oppression). This tome is one of the best anatomies of psychological defenses gone awry. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-06-21
US	46175519	R1WC1Z47CP55RY	0393701271	999463388	Abnormalities Of Personality: Within and Beyond the Realm of Treatment	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A compendium of abnormalities	It is rare to find a scholarly textbook which contrasts orthodox points of view with heterodoxy. Stone seeks to debunk myths regarding the etiology of disorders and the omnipotence of treatment modalities. He also, mercifully, refocuses on the patient (client), his personality, and his presenting traits -  rather than on the nebulous and abstract construct of &quot;personality disorder&quot;. Though somewhat outdated clinically - it relies on the DSM-III-R published in 1987 - it is still a refreshing new look at the topic, a decade after its publication. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-06-21
US	46175519	R10PL3JQ6J7OEC	0890420254	606675325	Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR)	Books	5	3	11	N	N	The human psyche captured	The DSM is - unjustly - much decried and much derided by critics, both laymen and mental health practitioners. Its shortcomings notwithstanding, it is a noble and largely successful attempt to capture the dysfunctions of the human psyche in the confines of a single tome. Is mental illness a mere figment of our cultural and social milieu? Are the distinctions between mental disorders - the differential diagnoses - too ambiguous? Is the DSM too formal and bureaucratic? You bet. Has anyone come up with anything remotely better? No, Sir! The DSM is not only a system of classification - but also an insightful distillation of decades of clinical experience. A must. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;	2003-06-08
US	46175519	R17F8L5QT948UQ	0060932201	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Hitler, the Man	A chilling and intimate portrait of a psychopathic narcissist from the point of view of his gullible and common-sensical niece. She is ensnared less by his infamous magnetism than by his rising celebrity and the pecuniary entrapments he foists on her. Gradually and painfully, she wakes up, in a golden cage, to the nightmarish, venomous and perverted relationship with her uncle. A \\"fly on the wall\\", superb, bated breath, piece of prescience in hindsight. Reads like journalism, deep like history, moving like a first rate novel and tragic beyond words. Close to a masterpiece. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2003-06-08
US	46175519	R3BK7LHFNCY20L	0471323551	247207967	Personality Disorders in Modern Life	Books	5	25	31	N	N	The encyclopedia of personality disorders	Authoritative, erudite, comprehensive and indispensable. It is by far the single best tome about personality disorders. It draws on the authors' rich clinical experience, panoramic acquaintance with schools of psychology, innovative taxonomy, and comparative ability. Though culturally-biased, it is still applicable to all societies and all times. Don't be deterred by the stiff price - it is worth every cent. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2003-06-08
US	46175519	RFCNE93YBPYLF	0448060043	718203903	Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	8	A prophetic tome which foretold the gathering storm of the 20th century: moral relativism, social disintegration, lethal authoritarianism, the absurd. A dark, haunting and disturbing masterpiece masterfully disguised as a nursery tale. Sam Vaknin, author of Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited.	2003-02-08
US	46175519	R102C0O4H6BWWW	0312979479	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Chronicler of Demise	Agatha Christie is the unwitting and morbidly fascinating chronicler of her own demise - the gradual fading of her milieu, her period, its mores and values, beliefs and superstitions, dreams and aspirations. The mirror of pre-Hitler Europe crack'd and then there were none. She was there, an indefatigable and uncannily observant documentarist of a dying era. sam Vaknin, author of Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited.	2003-02-08
US	46175519	R1J0TREDQ7A1VP	0743214277	479818734	Why Is It Always About You?: The Seven Deadly Sins of Narcissism	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Guide to Survival	The literature about narcissism is rich in scholarly, obstruse, discussions of psychodynamics, etiology, differential diagnoses and other unhelpfulissues.It is poor in down-to-earth, practical, &quot;how to cope&quot; manuals.  I should know as I amthe authorof &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;, another tome on this subject.Thisbook contains a rudimentary overview of pathological narcissism and thenproceeds to identify thetraits and dysfunctional behaviors of the narcissist - replete with hundreds of examplesfrom the author's mental health practice.  It then proceeds toprovide check lists,tips, and advice on how to cope with this destructive and perniciousphenomenon.  Along needed and long missing work.	2002-09-28
US	46175519	R3LXB2C0HUCC4D	0952912104	943449598	Bully in Sight: How to Predict, Resist, Challenge and Combat Workplace Bullying	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Hope for the Trapped	I have been following Tim Field's work closely since 1998 - visiting his ever-evolving Web site weekly. I read &quot;Bully in Sight&quot; from cover to cover twice. It provided me with invaluable and indispensable help in coping with stalkers and bullies. I have dedicated the last 5 years to the study of the Narcissistic Personality Disorder (NPD). Most narcissists are bullies. Few have captured the essence of bullying and stalking as Tim has. His work has given hope to many - the trapped and desperate victims of bullying, harassment and stalking. His book and Web site should be the first stop on the road to recovery and healing. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2002-01-26
US	46175519	R1A30WP4YVA6X6	0765702592	198463340	Disorders of Narcissism: Diagnostic, Clinical, and Empirical Implications	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A Must!	Pathological narcissism has been the topic of heated discussion for a hundred years now. Freud, Kohut, Klein, Winnicott, Kernberg - have all contributed their point of view. Roningstam belongs in this august company as a major theoretician and practitioner. This book - an anthology of writings about this intractable and maddening phenomena - is both whole and partial. It is whole is that it provides a magnificent overview and an efficient launching pad to the understanding of narcissism. It is partial in that it presents only the views of the psychodynamic object relations school of psychology and largely ignores advances in other fields. But it is a great read and provides hope that treatment may finally be getting there and breaching the narcissistic barrier. Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2001-08-17
US	46175519	R2Y7QQXDZA3LZ7	0465026567	296214142	Gdel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Eternal Golden Braid - Finally, Truth in Advertising!	Science and art have never been less accessible. They have become obscure private languages, requiring rites of initiation and proficiency in coding and decoding. But while art has largely remained the preserve of an elite - science has been popularized by both its practitioners and a host of talented observers and reporters. The reason is that science is all-pervasive while art is still a museum thing. In the genre of popular science there is nothing that comes close to this book. It combines music and literature with formal logic and computer science. It is poetic while being rigorous, breathless without deteriorating to pseudo-science. In short: a masterpiece. The book strives - and succeeds - to demonstrate that ostensibly disparate phenomena like ant colonies, Bach's music, the structure and functioning of the brain, and programming languages - have more in common than we imagine. Uncovering these strains of similarity and strands of common order is done in a systematic but highly entertaining manner. The book is as taut as a thriller and as fun as &quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot; that it so often quotes. A treat untouched by the almost three decades that elapsed since it was first published. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-12
US	46175519	R374SZD4J4T1KY	0876307217	722850908	The Emerging Self: A Developmental Self & Object Relations Approach to the Treatment of the Closet Narcissistic Disorder of the Self	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Outing the Narcissist	Masterson is one of the few theoreticians [come] practitioners to offer a coherent and self-sufficient theory of personality disorders, including the narcissistic one. This book encourages diagnosticians to diagnose pathological narcissism, even when the presenting signs are misleading. Masterson believes in the unacanny ability of pernicious narcissism to disguise itself and manifest in numerous, uncharted, ways. His is a road map backed by impressive amounts of research and practice. The only drawback is that it presents only the views of the psychodynamic [come]object relations school of psychology and largely ignores advances in other fields.  Sam Vaknin, author of \\"Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited\\".	2001-08-11
US	46175519	RRK1HAYGXBQSV	027596017X	554511516	The Destructive Narcissistic Pattern	Books	4	48	66	N	N	Partial Narcissists	Pathological narcissism is a spectrum - from narcissistic traits and narcissistic transient reactions to the full blown narcissistic personality disorder (NPD). Brown explores the grey area between NPD and narcissistic self-destructiveness and other-destruction. We can group these behaviors according to their underlying motivation. The Self-Punishing, Guilt-Purging Behaviours - these are intended to inflict punishment and to provide the punished party with a feeling of instant relief. The Extracting Behaviours - people with Personality Disorders (PDs) are very afraid of real, mature, intimacy. PDs interpret intimacy (not DEPENDENCE, but intimacy) as strangulation, the snuffing of freedom, death in installments. They are terrorized by it. The self-destructive and self-defeating acts are intended to dismantle the very foundation of a successful relationship, a career, a project, or a friendship. The Default Behaviours - self-defeating behaviors are intended to preserve the past, to restore it, to protect it from the winds of change, to inertially avoid opportunities. All these behaviour patterns are described here and linked psychodynamically to pathological narcissism. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-08-11
US	46175519	R2IAWT7ZFY6JKB	0881632805	869525767	Shame: The Underside of Narcissism	Books	4	76	90	N	N	Shame on You	Shame and guilt - often experienced during childhood and early adolescence - are the two relentless drivers of the veering car of pathological narcissism. Narcissistic Shame is the experience of a humiliating Grandiosity Gap (the tormenting abyss between the narcissist's reality and his grandiose fantasies). Subjectively it is experienced as a pervasive feeling of worthlessness (the regulation of self-worth lies at the crux of pathological narcissism), &quot;invisibleness&quot; and ridiculousness. The patient feels pathetic and foolish, deserving of mockery and humiliation. Narcissists adopt all kinds of defences to counter Narcissistic Shame. They develop addictive or impulsive behaviours. They deny, withdraw, rage, engage in the compulsive pursuit of some kind of (unattainable, of course) perfection. They display haughtiness and exhibitionism and so on. All these defences are employed primitively (or are primitive, like splitting) and involve projective identification. This book is the best study there is of the incestuous relationship of narcissism and pernicious shame. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-11
US	46175519	R24D21CUXEZ3YB	0814753957	770075218	Essential Papers on Narcissism (Essential Papers on Psychoanalysis)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Introduction by the Masters	No one seems to agree what is pathological narcissism. Some theoreticians regard it as a culture-dependent theoretical construct. Others fail to sufficiently differentiate it from the Borderline or Anti-social personality disorder. Some trace its genesis to the first year or years (the formative years) of life. Yet others believe that it can form as late as early adolescence or even, as a reactive formation, in adulthood. There are those who believe that some forms of narcissism are transient and all variants of narcissism can be successfully treated. Others regard it as mental (&quot;malignant&quot;) cancer - the side effects can be ameliorated with medication - but nothing more. You will find them all here, in this great tome of introductions to pathological narcissism by the masters. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-11
US	46175519	RNCBLBNBD94C2	0919123082	520391193	Narcissism and Character Transformation: The Psychology of Narcissistic Character Disorders (Studies in Jungian Psychology by Jungian Analysts)	Books	3	19	48	N	N	The Obfuscating Myth	Schwartz-Salant is one of the most thought-provoking Jungians around. He continues and extends Jung's archetypal narratives by exploring deeper links with alchemy, mythology, and other psychodynamics and object relations schools of psychology. In this book, he uses Greek mythology as an exegetic (interpretative) framework to gain clinical insights. This is not such a good idea and resorting to Kohut's work does not counter-balance this deficiency. Greek mythology is limited both by its set of characters and their interactions and by its cultural context. That it is a finished work - cast in the stone of history - makes it static and unable to cope with the dynamics of the hydra of pathological narcissism. A colourful intellectual exercise - but of very litlle clinical use, I am afraid. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-11
US	46175519	R1ZJ1DITL68KCE	0393700372	370547464	Humanizing the Narcissistic Style (Norton Professional Book)	Books	4	19	40	N	N	The Narcissistic Beacon	Pathological narcissism is a pattern of traits and behaviours which signify infatuation and obsession with one's (False) Self to the exclusion of all others and the egotistic and ruthless pursuit of one's gratification, dominance and ambition. The concepts of False Self and Narcissistic Supply are critical for the understanding of narcissistic behaviour patterns. So is the ruthlessness and single-mindedness of the narcissist, addicted to his narcissistic supply, devoid of empathy, deficient in object relations, his immature True Self atrophied and dilapidated. This book is about narcissistic interactions with others, in the context of our (narcissistic) culture. The efficaciousness of the treatment offered is doubtful, the language is sometimes obstruse, the book is tiresomely repetitive. But it is a must on the bookshelf of clinicians, therapists, patients, and their nearest and dearest. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-11
US	46175519	R3KR0E53TOJ3JH	0029202922	536535200	Search For The Real Self : Unmasking The Personality Disorders Of Our Age	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Our Age and the Real Self	Masterson may be on to something in the title of this book (as was Lasch). A hundred years from now, &quot;personality disorders&quot; may be thought of as a cultural artefact, the product of mass delusions. That the book tackles an enormous range of human behaviour under the same clinical heading weakens its usefulness. Still, it is an interesting tour de horizon of personality disorders, the functions of the False Self, and the ways to revive, nourish, sustain, and &quot;re-activate&quot; the dilapidated True Self (rarely successfully - something the book cheerfully omits to mention). Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-05
US	46175519	R28WQ9PNFI5X6F	0684842998	850796975	Narcissism	Books	3	19	26	N	N	Too Narrow, too Wide	Alexander Lowen is an authority on pathological narcissism. The book is an overview of this pernicious disorder characterized by self-destruction and lives wasted - both the narcissist's and his nearest and dearest. Lowen observes correctly that narcissism is the outcome of alienation and dissociation. A False Self is created - often in response to early childhood trauma and abuse in its myriad forms. Lowen was among the first to suggest that re-connecting with the atrophied, immature, and repressed True Self of the patient will serve to revitalize it. I don't care much for the bio-energetic mumbo jumbo - but the rest of the book is worth the investment. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-08-05
US	46175519	R3P3P08EF1S8FE	1855751968	916407330	The Uninvited Guest: Emerging from Nacissism Towards Marriage	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Marriage under Siege	The author rightly posits narcissism and marriage as poles, demarcating a road to be travelled. &quot;From narcissism towards marriage&quot; is about this road taken by couples in anguish. The pathological narcissism of one of the members of the dyad almost invariably destbailizes the marriage and leads to painful disintegration. What makes matters worse is the incomprehensibility and arbitrariness of this disorder. The author does a fine job of deciphering narcissism and delineating its pernicious and all-pervasive penetration of every nook and cranny of the couple's life. The book is full of literary case studies and real life examples. The only problem is its bias and, therefore, its limited scope. It is a book about one specific type of marital therapy. Narcissism is not amenable to this kind of therapy (or to any other psychodynamic therapy). It reacts better to cognitive-behavioural therapy. But, otherwise, it is an enriching and enlightening tome. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-05-05
US	46175519	RZ5JUZ0V8CMLD	1558503048	511882964	Verbal Abuse: Survivors Speak Out on Relationship and Recovery	Books	5	45	57	N	N	The Spectrum of Abuse	This book is a testimony from hell - the transparent torture chamber that verbal abuse - recurrent, unpredictable, tauntin - often becomes. It is a horror story disguised as passioned observations of victims and perpetrators. Abuse is an integral, inseparable part of the Narcissistic Personality Disorder. The narcissist idealizes and then DEVALUES and discards the object of his initial idealization. This abrupt, heartless devaluation IS abuse. ALL narcissists idealize and then devalue. This is THE core of pathological narcissism. The narcissist exploits, lies, insults, demeans, ignores (the &quot;silent treatment&quot;), manipulates, controls. All these are forms of abuse. There are a million ways to abuse. To love too much is to abuse. It is tantamount to treating someone as an extension, an object, or an instrument of gratification. To be over-protective, not to respect privacy, to be brutally honest, or consistently tactless - is to abuse. To expect too much, to denigrate, to ignore - are all modes of abuse. There is physical abuse, verbal abuse, psychological abuse, sexual abuse. The list is long. Narcissists are masters of abusing surreptitiously. They are &quot;stealth abusers&quot;. You have to actually live with one in order to witness the abuse. This book is as close as it gets to the real life experience. An eye (rather, ear) opener. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-03-13
US	46175519	R17MKCYB7Q35O8	0300083548	389467511	Kosovo: War and Revenge	Books	5	7	13	N	N	The Jejune West	Tim Judah is no scholar. This is not a work of great erudition. But, as an eyewitness account, it ranks close to Rebecca West's classic. It is a heart rending and compelling foray into the real &quot;Apocalypse Now&quot; that the Balkan has become once more. Whenever the Big Powers set out to pacify this region they succeeded only in perpetuating the carnage. The result? Never before has the Balkan been more of a powder keg, ready to detonate thunderously. Never before has it been so fractured among political entities, some viable - many not. Never before has it been dominated by a single superpower, not counter-balanced by its allies nor shackled by its foes. This is a disastrous state of things, about to get worse. Driven by America - this amalgam of violent frontiersmen, semi-literate go getters and malignant optimists (&quot;with some goodwill there is always a solution and a happy ending&quot;) - the West has committed the sins of ignorant intervention and colonial perpetuation. Peace among nations is the result of attrition and exhaustion, of mutual terror and actual bloodletting - not of amicable agreement and visionary stratagems. It took two world wars to make peace between France and Germany. By forcing an unwanted peace upon an unwilling populace in the early stages of every skirmish - the West has ascertained the perpetuation of these conflicts. Witness Bosnia and its vociferous nationalist Croats. Witness Macedonia's and Kosovo's Albanians and their chimerical armies of liberation. These are all cinders of hostilities artificially suppressed by Western procurators and Western cluster bombs. The West should have dangled the carrots of NATO and EU memberships in front of the bloodied pugilists - not ram them down their reluctant throats in shows of air superiority. Humanitarian aid should have been provided and grants and credits for development to the deserving. But the succour afforded by the likes of Germany to the likes of Croatia and by the benighted Americans to the most extreme elements in Kosovo - served only to amplify and prolong the suffering and the warfare. The West obstinately refused - and still does - to contemplate the only feasible solution to the spectrum of Balkan questions. Instead of convening a new Berlin Congress and redrawing the borders of the host of entities, quasi-entities and fraction entities that emerged with the disintegration of the Yugoslav Federation - the West foolishly and blindly adheres to unsustainable borders which reflect colonial decision making and ceasefire lines. In the absence of a colonizing power, only ethnically-homogeneous states can survive peacefully in the Balkan. The West should strive to effect ethnic homogenization throughout the region by altering borders, encouraging population swaps and transfers and discouraging ethnic cleansing and forced assimilation (&quot;ethnic denial&quot;). Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;After the Rain - How the West Lost the East&quot;.Americans to the most extreme elements in Kosovo - served only to amplify and prolong the suffering and the warfare. The West obstinately refused - and still does - to contemplate the only feasible solution to the spectrum of Balkan questions. Instead of convening a new Berlin Congress and redrawing the borders of the host of entities, quasi-entities and fraction entities that emerged with the disintegration of the Yugoslav Federation - the West foolishly and blindly adheres to unsustainable borders which reflect colonial decision making and ceasefire lines. In the absence of a colonizing power, only ethnically-homogeneous states can survive peacefully in the Balkan. The West should strive to effect ethnic homogenization throughout the region by altering borders, encouraging population swaps and transfers and discouraging ethnic cleansing and forced assimilation (&quot;ethnic denial&quot;). Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;After the Rain - How the West Lost the East&quot;.	2001-03-13
US	46175519	R3CH3FBCXLXB0T	0312230842	506463850	The Fragmentation of Yugoslavia: Nationalism and War in the Balkans	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Second October Revolution	Balkan history books rarely require a second edition. 'The Fragmentation of Yugoslavia' is the second edition of a tract in political science. It is interesting to compare the Tables of Content of both editions. 'Slovenia and Croatia at War' becomes 'Wars for Independence: Slovenia and Croatia', 'War in Bosnia Hercegovina' mutates to 'An Unfinished National Liberation'. The chapter 'A War against the Serbs or a US-brokered peace' vanishes altogether and another enters: 'Kosovo: National Liberation through Foreign Interventions'. He identifies four cycles of grievance-fuelled and paroxysmal national liberation wars. We are amidst the fourth, he says and offers a naive and impractical solution: plebiscites in the contested areas (Western Macedonia, Kosovo, Krajina, etc.). Exasperatingly, the author asks in an epilogue: 'National Liberations: Is there an end to them?'. With the stirrings in Montenegro and the forthcoming civil war in Kosovo, it doesn't seem so. But the author does a superb job of charting the territory with only the slightest and almost imperceptible (and inevitable) bias. Yugoslavia disintegrated on television, in bloodied frames and to vehement narration. It is a sad tale of good intentions and the road to hell, aptly told. It is a recommended and thrilling introductory text and a thorough documentation of the human folly and malice that put the noble idea of 'Brotherhood and Unity' to such a butchered end. Sam Vaknin, author of 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'.	2001-03-04
US	46175519	R1SRT7XE8N6N44	0312230869	285601216	The Political Economy of Post-Soviet Russia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Tragedy of Errors	This is a minute (though never tedious) chronology and phenomenology of the Reform Movement in Russia after communism. It is an exquisite obituary of the Russia that could have been and an indictment of the Russia that is and was. Dozens of detailed and thought provoking tables and graphs support observations that are never trite (though often familiar). It is a good tome of historiography. But it lacks a historiosophic element. It offers no exegesis, either explicit or implicit (through the ordering of events, for instance). In other words, it is not out to prove a thesis or a theory and it provides no paradigmatic platform. In the absence of these crucial elements of good history-writing - the book is reduced to the meticulous annals of the rise and fall of a dream. These shortcomings are somewhat ameliorated in Chapter 6 'The Dynamics of Political Change' where the author endeavours to present a coherent framework of trend analysis. Still, despite the profusion of economic content in the book, the author seems to me to be more at ease with matters political. Thus, the 'economy' in 'political economy' never enjoys the closure it deserves. Moreover, many things are disregarded or glossed over. A Russian paranoid would probably have read a lot into these omissions. The all-pervasive, pernicious and deleterious criminality of Russia merits only a perfunctory mention in the book. Arguably, the annals of Russian crime post Soviet times would make an adequate history of Russia itself as well. To relegate it to the footnotes is a curious choice, to use an understatement. Another neglected factor is the foreign experts. Perhaps understandably so, as Mr. Tikhomirov is the Deputy Director of the Contemporary Europe Research Centre at the University of Melbourne. But these experts were always a part of the problem and never its solution. But it is a rewarding and eye-opening read, replete with well-researched data and academic acumen. Writing about Russia requires the eloquence of Churchill and the erudition of a Gibbon. As long as these two gentlemen are indisposed - I recommend to buy Mr. Tikhomirov's opus. Sam Vaknin, author of 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'nce of Churchill and the erudition of a Gibbon. As long as these two gentlemen are indisposed - I recommend to buy Mr. Tikhomirov's opus. Sam Vaknin, author of 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'	2001-03-04
US	46175519	R2Q1VZE4VLG1HH	0970309902	273211218	Unleashing the Ideavirus	Books	4	6	12	N	N	The Missing Link	The recent bloodbath among online content peddlers and digital media proselytisers can be traced to two deadly sins. The first was to assume that traffic equals sales. In other words, that a miraculous conversion will spontaneously occur among the hordes of visitors to a web site. It was taken as an article of faith that a certain percentage of this mass will inevitably and nigh hypnotically reach for their bulging pocketbooks and purchase content, however packaged. Moreover, ad revenues (more reasonably) were assumed to be closely correlated with &quot;eyeballs&quot;. This myth led to an obsession with counters, page hits, impressions, unique visitors, statistics and demographics.  It failed, however, to take into account the dwindling efficacy of what Seth Godin, in his brilliant essay (&quot;Unleashing the IdeaVirus&quot;), calls &quot;Interruption Marketing&quot; - ads, banners, spam and fliers. It also ignored, at its peril, the ethos of free content and open source prevalent among the Internet opinion leaders, movers and shapers. These two neglected aspects of Internet hype and culture led to the trouncing of erstwhile promising web media companies while their business models were exposed as wishful thinking.  The second mistake was to exclusively cater to the needs of a highly idiosyncratic group of people (Silicone Valley geeks and nerds). The assumption that the USA (let alone the rest of the world) is Silicone Valley writ large proved to be calamitous to the industry.  In the 1970s and 1980s, evolutionary biologists like Richard Dawkins and Rupert Sheldrake developed models of cultural evolution. Dawkins' &quot;meme&quot; is a cultural element (like a behaviour or an idea) passed from one individual to another and from one generation to another not through biological -genetic means - but by imitation. Sheldrake added the notion of contagion - &quot;morphic resonance&quot; - which causes behaviour patterns to suddenly emerged in whole populations. Physicists talked about sudden &quot;phase transitions&quot;, the emergent results of a critical mass reached. A latter day thinker, Michael Gladwell, called it the &quot;tipping point&quot;. Seth Godin invented the concept of an &quot;ideavirus&quot; and an attendant marketing terminology. In a nutshell, he says, to use his own summation:  &quot;Marketing by interrupting people isn't cost-effective anymore. You can't afford to seek out people and send them unwanted marketing, in large groups and hope that some will send you money. Instead the future belongs to marketers who establish a foundation and process where interested people can market to each other. Ignite consumer networks and then get out of the way and let them talk.&quot; This is sound advice with a shaky conclusion. The conversion from exposure to a marketing message (even from peers within a consumer network) - to an actual sale is a convoluted, multi-layered, highly complex process. It is not a &quot;black box&quot;, better left unattended to. It is the same deadly sin all over again - the belief in a miraculous conversion. And it is highly US-centric. People in other parts of the world interact entirely differently. Two successful authors, Melisse J. Rose and Doug Clepp, are now in the process of constructing a web site that will institutionalise &quot;buzz marketing&quot; (a technique they successfully applied to their own products). They intend to help authors to mine the Internet for readers who will then interact with other readers to generate a favourable &quot;hum&quot;. You can get them to visit and you get them to talk and you can get them to excite others. But to get them to buy - is a whole different ballgame. Dot.coms had better begin to study its rules. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.s talked about sudden &quot;phase transitions&quot;, the emergent results of a critical mass reached. A latter day thinker, Michael Gladwell, called it the &quot;tipping point&quot;. Seth Godin invented the concept of an &quot;ideavirus&quot; and an attendant marketing terminology. In a nutshell, he says, to use his own summation:  &quot;Marketing by interrupting people isn't cost-effective anymore. You can't afford to seek out people and send them unwanted marketing, in large groups and hope that some will send you money. Instead the future belongs to marketers who establish a foundation and process where interested people can market to each other. Ignite consumer networks and then get out of the way and let them talk.&quot; This is sound advice with a shaky conclusion. The conversion from exposure to a marketing message (even from peers within a consumer network) - to an actual sale is a convoluted, multi-layered, highly complex process. It is not a &quot;black box&quot;, better left unattended to. It is the same deadly sin all over again - the belief in a miraculous conversion. And it is highly US-centric. People in other parts of the world interact entirely differently. Two successful authors, Melisse J. Rose and Doug Clepp, are now in the process of constructing a web site that will institutionalise &quot;buzz marketing&quot; (a technique they successfully applied to their own products). They intend to help authors to mine the Internet for readers who will then interact with other readers to generate a favourable &quot;hum&quot;. You can get them to visit and you get them to talk and you can get them to excite others. But to get them to buy - is a whole different ballgame. Dot.coms had better begin to study its rules. Sam Vaknin, author of &quot;Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited&quot;.	2001-03-04
US	46175519	R7LTEEAL93COO	0571174949	103504372	The Faber Book of Murder	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Murder Most Fascinating	There is something blood-curdling in an alphabetic compilation of sanguineous tales of gore. It is all here, in great detail - the sights and smells and sounds of murder most foul. The contrast between this work of love and its contents is bordering on the insane. The horror and revulsion are mixed with irresistible fascination. This tome is addictive - but not for the squeamish. Perhaps both death and life are essentially the same. Perhaps murder is the usurpation of God's power, a rebellion against our own mortality and helplessness. The breadth of this study of human nature is compelling - from medieval ballads to twentieth century lore. Murder seems to have pre-occupied every author, everywhere, in every period. It is a testament to our atavistic nature, so thinly hidden beneath the oft-cracking veneer of civilization. I live in the Balkan, I was born in the Middle East, I have worked in Africa. This book strikes me as an indispensable tourist guide to these places - where pretension has vanished and the human animal has emerged to prey. And to murder. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-02-25
US	46175519	R3GXM4L0OVBKIZ	0262024640	493473	Dreamworld and Catastrophe: The Passing of Mass Utopia in East and West	Books	4	14	24	N	N	The Betrayal of History	'Dreamworld and Catastrophe' is a cry of anguish disguised as the interdisciplinary analyses of a (neo-)Marxist scholar. It is a fragmentary and tortured reaction to the betrayal of history, in the best of Walter Benjamin's tradition, consciously emulated in this tome by this leading authority on the Frankfurt School. It is painful to wade through the convolutions of denial, intellectualization and projection that constitute the first part ('Democracy' - the political framework). The next two sections ('History' and 'Mass Culture')are a joyride of erudition and an intellectual tour de force. The last part - a dry chronicle of the comings and goings of the author's milieu amidst the disintegration of the USSR and the emergence of Russia - is anti-climactic. The opus in its entirety does not fuflil the blurb's somewhat hubristic promise: 'This book offers a revaluation of the twentieth century'. Sam Vaknin, author of 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'	2001-02-25
US	46175519	R3ME0QL6H6SFFA	0749427248	687092846	House of Mirrors: About Narcissistic Leader - and How to Survuve Them	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Narcissists in Positions of Authority	Many leaders - in politics, business, religion, community - are pathological or malignant narcissists. But, maybe surprisingly to some, not all of them. Consider politics. The preponderance of narcissistic traits and personalities in politics is much less than in show business, for instance. Moreover, while show business is concerned essentially (and almost exclusively) with the securing of narcissistic supply - politics is a much more complex and multi-faceted activity. Rather, narcissism in politics is a spectrum. At the one end, we find the 'actors' - politicians who regard politics as their venue and their conduit, an extended theatre with their constituency as an audience. At the other extreme, we find self-effacing and schizoid (crowd-hating) technocrats. Most politicians are in the middle: somewhat self-enamoured, opportunistic and seeking modest doses of narcissistic supply - but mostly concerned with perks, self-preservation and the exercise of power. Most narcissists are ruthless opportunists. But not all opportunistic and ruthless operators are narcissists. This book is a good introduction to narcissists in positions of leadership and to the pernicious effects of their disordered personalities. Yet, all such tomes suffer from a major - and, to my mind, iredeemable, drawback. I am strongly opposed to remote diagnosis. I think it is a bad habit, exercised by charlatans and dilettantes (even if their names are followed by a Psy.D.). Only a qualified mental health diagnostician can determine whether someone suffers from NPD and this, following lengthy tests and personal interviews. Moreover, often, politicians are nothing but a loyal reflection of their milieu, their culture, their society and their times (zeitgeist and leitkultur - the Germans have words for such things). This is the thesis of Daniel Goldhagen in 'Hitler's Willing Executioners'. Lasch, for instance characterized America as narcissistic (in, among others, 'The Culture of Narcissism'). Read cautiously. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.utiously. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-02-22
US	46175519	R1I11MCE95Z8VI	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Biased Tour de Force	'Balkan Ghosts' is an impressionistic tour de force of the Balkan. It doesn't come near Rebecca West's masterpiece 'Black Lamb and Gray Falcon' - but it is a travelogue in the same tradition. The author, who is acquainted with certain parts of the Balkan, crosses these tortured lands just prior to the Yugoslav wars of secession. His prognoses are accurate, his depiction of ancient ethnic enmities sweeping, his pessimism justified in hindsight. But too many important aspects are neglected or papered over. The responsibility of the West, the interplay of big powers, the ineptitude of international organizations, the forces of democracy and ethnic reconciliation in the region, religious co-existence and much more besides. Though one sided and biased, it is a must read - if only to understand what influenced the American administration of Bill Clinton in the formulation of its Balkan policies. Sam Vaknin, author of 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'.	2001-02-18
US	46175519	R1S903QCBFF2YK	1572242310	310846468	Children of the Self-Absorbed: A Grown-Up's Guide to Getting over Narcissistic Parents	Books	4	286	320	N	N	Narcissistic Parents, Narcissistic Off-spring	Is there a linear connection between narcissistic parents and narcissistic off-spring? Is there a lineage of narcissism? Is narcissism contagious? Judging by the number of books about 'affected children of narcissists', the answer would seem to be: yes. Growing up with narcissistic parents is tantamount to being a POW, a hostage, the object of the whole spectrum of abuse. It is trauma writ large. And it can - and sometimes does - distort the child's healthy development. Narcissists are, as Nina Brown says, 'self-absorbed'. The child is an extension, a plaything, a toy, a nuisance, a threat - but never, simply, another human being with needs (especially emotional ones) and boundaries to be respected. This book is a straightforward presentation of this state of siege and how to overcome the pernicious after-effects of being exposed to narcissism, replete with case studies. A fascinating read. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-02-18
US	46175519	R32SIJMK5EIPMX	0140188479	738503075	Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Mind of the Balkan	Never before and never after have the mind of this tortured region - the Balkan - been thus penetrated: with such passionate, humane precision, with such eloquence, with such empathy and such conviction. A classic, if ever there was any, a masterpiece without a doubt. It is as fresh as yesterday's news and as ancient as the monasteries it describes. It is an eternal work, a must for Balkan afficionados, a work of scholarship and love. Influenced by it, I wrote this (in my 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'): 'The Balkans is the unconscious of the world...It is here that the repressed memories of history, its traumas and fears and images reside. It is here that the psychodynamics of humanity - the tectonic clash between Rome and Byzantium, West and East, Judeo-Christianity and Islam - is still easily discernible.' Thank you, Rebecca West. Sam Vaknin, author of 'After the Rain - How the West Lost the East'.	2001-02-18
US	46175519	R2U44T0PPFEW4	0787908703	200710686	The Narcissistic Family: Diagnosis and Treatment	Books	4	26	37	N	N	The Hydra of Abuse	This book has an important mission - to re-define abuse. Most people associate the term with beatings or verbal onslaught. But abuse is a spectrum of behaviours. Perhaps the most pernicious kind is the subtle, non-discernible and socially acceptable one. A doting mother, a demanding father, unrealistic expectations, a family ethos of not expressing one's emotions - are all forms of abuse and all might lead to trauma. Treating the child as an extension of the parent, a toy and the conduit of the parent's frustrated dreams and unfulfilled wishes is a violation of the child's forming boundaries. It is a perversion of the all-important processes of individuation and separation. It is a travesty and the child pays its price all its remaining life. Personality disorders are often reactions to such all-pervasive and pernicious abuse. Read all about it in this (somewhat academic) book. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'	2001-02-14
US	46175519	R2AABPW2A2ICQK	0876687621	543917867	Borderline Conditions and Pathological Narcissism (The Master Work Series)	Books	4	36	68	N	N	Narcissism - Right and Wrong	Narcissism is an important phase in one's personal development. It is the foundation of a sense of self worth and self-confidence. It is self-love in its benign form. But then, having fulfilled its role, it is replaced by love directed at others (object love). It is here that pathologies occur when the individual is unable to successfully accomplish this transition. Pathological narcissism is a lot more than a fixation on an early developmental phase, though. This is the first weak point of this otherwise seminal work. It is, well, fixated, on a psychodynamic-object relations scenario. additionally, the distinctions between borderline conditions and pathological narcissism - both states of low organization of the personality - are blurred. Otherwise, it is a masterpiece of hands-on clinical work well worth perusing. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-01-29
US	46175519	R33XTX0T3P4DJA	0465062873	615058176	Prisoners Of Childhood: The Drama of the Gifted Child and the Search for the True Self	Books	4	31	38	N	N	The Sad Narcissist	Alice Miller is by far the most prominent popularizer of the twin concepts - True Self and False Self. She regards the True Self as a prisoner within the walls of the False Self. The latter is an intricate and multi-faceted defence mechanism. Defence against what? Against one's emotions that were repressed during early childhood. The narcissist plays a role - that of the gifted, docile, accepting, tranquil, loving, peaceful and well-adjusted child. He becomes the extension of his parents: their unfulfilled dreams and sexret wishes. His identity is moulded to fit the idealized and ideal offspring. His negative feelings are buried deep inside his tormented psyche. These emotional skeletons later erupt and produce depression, suicidal ideation or narcissistic defences. Excellent, readable and - if one can use this word in this context - entertaining. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-01-24
US	46175519	RFE39CBLGY4YV	0880642033	723051498	The Abandoned Child Within: On Losing and Regaining Self-Worth	Books	4	24	27	N	N	The Spectrum of Abuse	This book is a vivid delight: patients' case histories, patient drawings and the paraphrenalia of a therapist's existence. Underneath this colourful maelstrom lies an hypothesis: pathological narcissism is the direct outcome of early childhood abuse and trauma, mainly in the form of abandonment or neglect. Narcissism, in other words, is a defence against hurt and emotional injury. To eradicate it, one must revert to one's roots and deal with unrsolved pain and conflict with caregivers and significant others (in other words, one's mother). This is the orthodoxy and it is supported by a large body of therapeutical experience. Yet, the author neglects to review the entire spectrum of abuse - from physical to verbal, from smothering to ignoring, from doting to absence. A child treated as a parent's precious extension, the parent's only shot at wish fulfillment and a parent's favourite toy is no less abused than a child abandoned and beaten. this book, in other words, deals with a niche - with ONE of the possible dynamics that lead to narcissism. Otherwise, this is recommended reading....	2001-01-19
US	46175519	R8BSJGESYP4SM	0688140718	715515193	Trapped in the Mirror: Adult Children of Narcissists in their Struggle for Self	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Victims of Stealth	Pathological narcissism is a stealthy, pernicious and all-pervasive form of semipternal and venomous abuse. The narcissist is not necessarily as 'evil' person. He (for 75% of all narcissists are men) is simply oblivious to the long-term outcomes of his actions and inaction. He uses and discards, idealizes and devalues, derives narcissistic supply and then moves on. To be the child of a narcissist is a harrowing, devastating, incomprehensible experience. Golomb does an unparalleled job of mapping the territory of pain and rage that her childhood was - and by implication the childhood of victims of narcissists is. One of 5 books that are a must to anyone who wants to come to grips and demystify this disorder - Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-01-13
US	46175519	RZ31LIB9UW5D8	0393307387	964802149	The Culture of Narcissism: American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations	Books	4	61	115	N	N	Abusing Narcissism	'The Culture of Narcissism - American Life in an Age of Diminishing Expectations' was published in the first year of the unhappy presidency of Jimmy Carter (1979). The latter endorsed the book publicly (in his famous 'national malaise' speech). The main thesis of the book is that the Americans have created a self-absorbed (though not self aware), greedy and frivolous society which depended on consumerism, demographic studies, opinion polls and Government to know and to define itself. What is the solution? Lasch proposed a 'return to basics': self-reliance, the family, nature, the community, and the Protestant work ethic. To those who adhere, he promised an elimination of their feelings of alienation and despair. There is no single Lasch. This chronicler of culture, did so mainly by chronicling his inner turmoil, conflicting ideas and ideologies, emotional upheavals, and intellectual vicissitudes. In this sense, of (courageous) self-documentation, Mr. Lasch epitomized Narcissism, was the quintessential Narcissist, the better positioned to criticize the phenomenon. Some 'scientific' disciplines (e.g., the history of culture and History in general) are closer to art than to the rigorous (a.k.a. 'exact' or 'natural' or 'physical' sciences). Lasch borrowed heavily from other, more established branches of knowledge without paying tribute to the original, strict meaning of concepts and terms. Such was the use that he made of 'Narcissism'. Lasch's greatest error was that he did not acknowledge that there is an abyss between narcissism and self love, being interested in oneself and being obsessively preoccupied with oneself. Lasch confuses the two. The price of progress is growing self-awareness and with it growing pains and the pains of growing up. It is not a loss of meaning and hope - it is just that pain has a tendency to push everything to the background. Those are constructive pains, signs of adjustment and adaptation, of evolution. America has no inflated, megalomaniac, grandiose ego. It never built an overseas empire, it is made of dozens of ethnic immigrant groups, it strives to learn, to emulate. Americans do not lack empathy - they are the foremost nation of volunteers and also professes the biggest number of (tax deductible) donation makers. Americans are not exploitative - they are hard workers, fair players, Adam Smith-ian egoists. They believe in Live and Let Live. They are individualists and they believe that the individual is the source of all authority and the universal yardstick and benchmark. This is a positive philosophy. Granted, it led to inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth. But then other ideologies had much worse outcomes. Luckily, they were defeated by the human spirit, the best manifestation of which is still democratic capitalism. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.c, grandiose ego. It never built an overseas empire, it is made of dozens of ethnic immigrant groups, it strives to learn, to emulate. Americans do not lack empathy - they are the foremost nation of volunteers and also professes the biggest number of (tax deductible) donation makers. Americans are not exploitative - they are hard workers, fair players, Adam Smith-ian egoists. They believe in Live and Let Live. They are individualists and they believe that the individual is the source of all authority and the universal yardstick and benchmark. This is a positive philosophy. Granted, it led to inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth. But then other ideologies had much worse outcomes. Luckily, they were defeated by the human spirit, the best manifestation of which is still democratic capitalism. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-01-11
US	46175519	R2ZRDD1WCD6HFQ	0465016901	241968441	The Drama of the Gifted Child: The Search for the True Self, Revised Edition	Books	5	5	12	N	N	The Death of the True Self	It is rare to read about abuse and trauma and their life-long consequences in poetic prose. Alice Miller writes as though she has experienced the slow death of the True Self that comes with all forms of abuse - from beatings and berating to smothering and doting. Indispensable. Sam Vaknin, author of 'Malignant Self Love - Narcissism Revisited'.	2001-01-06
