US	46194801	R1V84W7LHJQSFM	1904151183	917080946	Practical Web Traffic Analysis: Standards, Privacy, Techniques, and Results	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Perfect small site operator resource	This book fills a niche aimed squarely at small site operators who want to peek under the hood and fully understand how to measure their site's traffic. The best way to describe what's in this book is to quote from the back cover, &quot;What you know: enough to have created a web site ... how to get server log files&quot;. &quot;What you'll learn&quot; <BR>- Techniques for gathering data on users<BR>- Standards and guidelines for interpreting your data<BR>- How other sites ensure that they respect user privacy<BR>- Insight into how other sites use web traffic analysis<br />The book delivers on the above promises by showing you how to select the best approach that meets your requirement, and use that approach.  The technical approaches include log file analysis, page tagging, and cookies.  The latter is a definite privacy issue, so the chapter on privacy is important even if you're running a small home page.<br />I co-manage a few web sites with a colleague, one of which is a small commercial site called processdox (ASIN B0001F96ZO).  For statistics we use a service called extremetracking (ASIN B00006E2FS), and for the most part it is good enough. However, since I do have access to server logs, and can tag every page on the site, this book gave me options to go beyond the available tools. While page tagging is more effective, I chose to go with log analysis since the time and effort of anything more than that was not worth it.  If I were operating a high volume commercial site with competitors I would have either used page tagging, or even outsourced this function to a service provider.  Before reading this book I was not aware of the many options, and why one was better than another in a given situation.  Therein lies the value of this book to a small site operator.<br />To get the most from this book you do need to be technically inclined because some of the chapters are about coding your own solution.  Even those chapters, though, were so clearly explained that aninexperienced site operator will have no problem understanding all of the details.<br />Be aware that much of the technical material in this book does not scale up to larger commercial sites.  While the case studies and privacy information will be useful to anyone running any size site, the traffic analysis techniques are best in a small site setting. If that is where you are, then this is a perfect book because it will not sidetrack you with information that a small site operator doesn't need.  If you are looking for a book that addresses this subject from a larger business viewpoint I suggest &quot;Web Metrics: Proven Methods for Measuring Web Site Success&quot; (ISBN 0471220728).	2004-04-16
US	46194801	R3NCHTTJHEUMBT	0471221783	987991221	Project Management Methodologies: Selecting, Implementing, and Supporting Methodologies and Processes for Projects	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Essential reading for experienced project managers	Regardless of whether you are a PMI certified Project Management Professional (PMP), or a PRINCE2 Practitioner, or hold any other project management certification, this book will improve your skills.<br />It does not replace knowledge or process areas on any of the existing project management approaches, but, instead, shows you how to tailor an approach that best fits project objectives.  In many ways the approach in this book is more similar to the UK PRINCE2 standard because of the emphasis on project organization and stakeholders.<br />For readers who hold the PMP certification this book's distinction between methodologies and frameworks, and how to select and implement the most effective methodology will add coherency to the PMBOK framework upon which the certification is based.  The author's approach does not supplant or alter the PMBOK process areas.  It indirectly shows how much each process area should be given during the life of the project.  It also fills in gaps in the PMBOK approach with respect to project organization.  This material can also be effectively used in a PMO.  <br />The project templates and techniques are invaluable tools for any project manager.  I have one issue with the book:  the URL given for the downloadable templates is a dead link.  However, I believe this is one of the most important books published in recent years, and it is most useful for experienced project managers who can appreciate the in-depth information the author imparts.	2004-02-14
US	46194801	R342PU0OJ1HDKD	0972983163	35006093	Impacting Business: A Simple Model of IT Management	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Sensible approach and excellent presentation  of essentials	The simple model that is described in this book is straightforward and represents a viable, effective starting place for establishing process-oriented management.  However, in my opinion the best features of this book are found in the chapters on fundamental knowledge and background material.<br />Section One, in particular, is one of the most readable and accurate summaries of the economics of IT management I've ever read.  If this section alone was read and understood by IT managers and consultants, and then put into practice it would go a long way towards improving the way IT supports their business constituents.  The material covers subtle and not-so-subtle aspects of investing in the right initiatives for the right reasons, and will cause any IT professional to alter the way they view their role in an enterprise.<br />Psychology of IT management covered in Section Two is equally valuable.  It accurately portrays the separation of concerns of both IT and business, then provides tools and techniques for aligning the two.  Entire books have been devoted to this subject area, yet the author manages to capture all of the important points in a mere 26 pages.<br />The sections on understanding problems and understanding change also stand out as exceptionally well-written recipes for managing two key elements of any process-oriented approach to IT management.  The material in these two sections are directly applicable to anyone who is involved with implementing an operational model based on the ITIL.<br />While the model presented in this book is not 100% consistent with the ITIL, it is close enough, and if properly implemented will give a solid foundation for an ITIL-based operations management paradigm.<br />If you work in IT operations this book is one best investments you can make.  It's short enough to be quickly read, and is rich in knowledge and techniques.	2004-02-13
US	46194801	R3HGZ51J5156FX	9080671347	739251332	It Service Management: An Introduction	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Detailed guidance for service management	This is a milestone in IT service management literature because as stated by others it makes the ITIL/iSMF approach available to a wider audience that it has previously reached. <br />What I like about this book is the way each service support and service delivery process is carefully diagrammed using flow charts, and thoroughly described.  Using this book alone you can develop processes and procedures that are consistent with both the ITIL and iSMF.  That, to me, makes this book worth many times its price because it shows what service management is and how to implement it.  <br />If you're a consultant who specializes in IT service management this book is essential.  If you're an IT manager or CIO who is exploring the best way to implement service management this book gives best and proven practices, and provides a framework for each process area. This book is also ideal for anyone involved in IT organization or reengineering, and in my opinion should be read by all IT professionals.	2002-10-27
US	46194801	R22QFTTXVF2RRY	0273652966	58037066	Delivering on Your E-Promise: Managing E-Business Projects	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Recipe for Success	This is one of the most impressive, information filled books I've ever read.  It manages to distill all of the important issues and factors for e-business project success into less than 250 pages. <br />While it looks like common sense advice, everything in this book is anything but common sense because I recognized one pitfall after another as the author described them, and know from experience that most are underestimated during project planning, but inevitably come back to haunt you later in the project.  If you pay close attention to Chapters 4 (Main causes of e-project failure), 6 (Integration issues) and 10 (Avoid pitfalls in your e-business) in particular you'll save yourself a lot of grief.  <br />Managing e-business projects cannot be done from an ivory tower.  Get this book and benefit from the author's obvious experience. A perfect companion to this book is Managing E-Business Projects by Wes Balakian, Keith Young and Rajesh Veerapaneni because it goes into the nuts and bolts of project management using PMI's PMBOK as a framework.	2002-10-27
US	46194801	R3ELERABSRL6CI	0201703726	119472009	Documenting Software Architectures: Views and Beyond	Books	5	38	42	N	N	The only technical documentation book you'll need	After reading my colleague's comments I rushed out and purchased this book.  I, too, am trained and certified in Information Mapping© and was impressed at how closely the approach in this book is aligned to that method.  However, what I like most is the fact that this book can be used as guidance for a wider scope than just documenting software architectures because it shows how to organize your documentation requirements, develop clear documentation and manage the entire process from start to finish.<br />I also like the clearly articulated and illustrated advice about how to augment text with graphics, and how to select the views and associated graphics to document requirements, specifications and the finished architecture.  An example of how this book goes beyond documenting just architectures is a project in which I was engaged two years ago.  One of the major deliverables was a set of operations guides.  While this is related to architecture with respect to how its used after it's in production, there were no books that fully described how to go about it in a coherent way.  Using the advice and techniques in this book I could have greatly improved upon what I did produce.  While I cannot change the past, you can be sure that I'll use this book to its fullest the next time I need to write ops guides, especially when it comes to showing component and connector views, and elements and relations.<br />If you do technical writing either professionally or as a part of your job get this book and keep it nearby.  If you read and use the material you're ability to communicate will surely improve, and you'll be able to tailor your documentation to each segment of your audience (business and technical), as well as to clearly communicate information.  You'll also learn much about managing the documentation process itself.	2002-10-27
US	46194801	R2OROF0W2MMPWK	007219524X	647424362	OCP Oracle9i DBA Certification Boxed Set	Books	4	61	65	N	N	Tough choices	This collection of study guides and the CD ROMs that come with it represent potential value, but the decision to go with this set versus buying 'best of breed' books on each subject area boils down to a personal choice.  Factors include budget and how willing you are to endure some of the typos in most of the books in this set.<br />What you get:  This collection consists of the following books, each of which I have reviewed on their product pages.  I am summarizing the reviews to save time:<br />1. OCP Introduction to Oracle9i: SQL Exam Guide.  I rated this at 4 stars - be aware of the fact that this book does have errors, make sure you read the errata and you'll find it quite helpful.<br />2. OCP Oracle9i Database: Fundamentals I Exam Guide.  Another 4-star rating - there are editing flaws and inconsistent writing that do make this book ponderous at times. There have been times when I wished the authors and editors had paid more attention to the book, and other times when I silently thanked them for clarifying a concept.<br />3. OCP Oracle9i Database: Fundamentals II Exam Guide. 4-stars.  Among the strong points of this book are the self tests and practice exam questions. Weaknesses include poor editing, which seems to plague this series, and the inconsistent writing that is at times extremely clear and others quite obtuse.  I prefer OCP: Oracle9i DBA Fundamentals II Study Guide by Doug Stuns and Matthew Weishan, which is better written, consistent and complete. It is also a 'best of breed' book.<br />4. OCP Oracle9i Database: Performance Tuning Exam Guide. Unlike the others in this set this book is a 5-star gem. All of the key elements of performance tuning are covered, the illustrations are excellent and aid in understanding, and the drills, self tests and practice questions have been a tremendous help.<br />Pros:  price, over 2000 pages of materials and CD ROMs with practice questions and other material.<br />Cons:  with the exception of the Performance TuningExam Guide the guides in this set have editing problems and errors.<br />You choose.	2002-07-06
US	46194801	R1BH2IJV4MFHQP	0130621102	460708631	Managing High-Intensity Internet Projects	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Excellent for small, rapid implementation projects	This 240-page book lives up to the author's goals: (1) distill the essentials of managing 'Internet-time' projects into a short book, (2) give 'just enough information' to be successful, and (3) clearly show the differences between traditional PM approaches and an approach that takes into account the realities of most IT projects that are initiated in today's competitive environment.<br />He's met all three goals.  First, the book is based on the assumption that you have PM skills and understand the basic techniques for planning, scheduling and controlling projects.  It's the essentials that are important.  Among these essentials are developing a strategy and dealing with project politics - the first is usually absent when projects are initiated, and the second is necessary because no matter how well versed you are in the techniques, you'll be a babe in the woods if you cannot manage the political aspects of a project or effectively negotiate.<br />Just enough information is provided for managing the project life cycle within a compressed schedule, with chapters on the software process, requirements, design and build and testing.  There are also chapters that address project management techniques as they relate to high intensity projects, including managing progress, risk and people. <br />I like the emphasis on quality (not surprisingly based on inspections and walkthroughs, which is consistent with Yourdon's other published material), and defect and issue management.  The discussion of heavy versus agile methods is also invaluable, and the recommended light process that the author provides appears to be workable for small-scale projects.  In fact, for large-scale projects, such as ERP implementations and complex e-business initiatives I feel that more traditional methods are called for; however, considering that many projects are small, rapid implementations this book has a place on every IT project manager's bookshelf.  If you are caught up in this type of project and find that your more traditional techniques hinder more than help, this is an ideal book.	2002-07-03
US	46194801	R3TNYG9TDQZTBH	0749424826	273918111	Solve That Problem!: Tools and Techniques for Continuous Improvement (How to Be Better)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A gem!	This is, without a doubt, one of the most useful and best written guides about problem solving and continuous tools you can buy, and here are some reasons why:<br />- It's formatted as a mini encyclopedia that covers seven categories of tools: (1) requirements and problem definition, (2) data gathering, (3) analysis, (4) ideas and options, (5) decision making, (6) planning, and (7) continuous improvement.<br />- Each tool is presented in a fixed format that includes What it Is, How to Use It, and Example.<br />- The layout and design makes finding information effortless and is highly visual.<br />You get 35 tools, ranging from the more common ones such as Pareto charts, SWOT analysis, cause and effect diagrams, to lesser know ones such as perception of performance grids and mind mapping.  In addition, some of the tools are complex, such as customer-supplier agreements, time-cost and cost-benefit analyses, and team purpose analysis.  I especially like the paired comparison technique and the complete treatment of planning tools, which includes work breakdown structures, critical path method, and planning tables.  Another nice touch is the tool selection chart on page 12.  This is one of the reasons that this short book is such a handy reference and easy to use. If you're interested in this book because you're getting involved in a continuous process improvement initiative I recommand that you also read &quot;Continuous Process Improvement: Simplifying Work Flow Systems&quot; by George D. Robson.	2002-07-03
US	46194801	R3CTKOA2OO8XV0	0787956910	695907714	How To Lead Work Teams: Facilitation Skills, 2nd Edition	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Takes a process approach to soft skills - excellent!	If you are a requirements analyst who leads joint application design workshops or conduct reviews and checkpoint meetings, or are in charge of teams regardless of your job and role this book is a treasure.<br />First, it's short. The 14 chapters that lead you through developing and using team leadership skills and techniques is given in 216 information packed pages.  Second, the approach in this book is based on a process instead of ad hoc advice that characterizes other books of this type.<br />The book starts with some basics before unfolding into a process.  Topics include a discussion of the realities of today's workplace, and the differences between teams and teamwork; the difference between controlling and facilitating, and excellent advice on communications and facilitating team meetings.  The process that begins in Chapter 10 is a sequence as follows:  (1) plan the meeting (with an interesting piece on why agendas do not work - this flys in the face of conventional thought, but the author makes a compelling case), (2) encourage participation (with a wealth of techniques for doing this), (3) methods and techniques for recording ideas, (4) how to manage the group, and (5) reaching consensus (a real skill!).<br />If you're new to facilitating or leading teams this book will give you the skills and knowledge to be successful.   Even if you're experienced and routinely facilitate meetings you'll find something new or refreshing in this book - and the clear writing and short page count makes it easy to read.	2002-07-03
US	46194801	RX6F92C5JQIA9	0029266459	356440142	Continuous Process Improvement	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Goes straight to the heart of CPI	You can buy any number of books on continuous improvement or process design and become quickly mired in overwhelming detail.  This book, on the other hand, goes to the heart of what a process is, the true meaning of 'continuous process improvement' (a frequently misused term in my opinion), and the steps needed to achieve it.<br />Chapter 1 starts by explaining continuous process improvement, its business benefits, and some simple tools that will get you started.  This chapter is so well written and makes so much sense that if this were a novel it would be considered to be a 'grabber'.  The next two chapters get you started by showing you how to map and evaluate a process.  <br />I like the way you are quickly led to focus on what's important through problem statement and analysis.  Chapter 4 introduces the real tools for continuous improvement - statistical process control charts - and manages to cover this daunting topic without losing the reader.  This is no mean feat because the material isn't simple in nature.  The treatment is brief and will probably raise more questions if you are not familiar with statistical process controls. If that's the case you will probably want to read &quot;SPC Simplified: Practical Steps to Quality&quot; by Robert T. Amsden (or if you are in the service industry, &quot;SPC Simplified for Services&quot; by Davida M. Amsden, which is the same boom with an emphasis on services).  The final chapter wraps up by giving advice about implementing corrective action, project management considerations, and managing teams and meetings.<br />This is the best introduction to continuous process improvement, in my opinion, and one that I recommend highly to anyone who is new to the subject. I also recommend &quot;Solve That Problem!: Readymade Tools for Continuous Improvement&quot; by Steve Smith (ISBN 0749424826), which expands on the basic CPI tools that this book introduces.	2002-07-03
US	46194801	RFIFZP1HMK743	0130651982	4644794	Charles F. Goldfarb's XML Handbook (4th Edition)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Incredible Reference Book + Bonus Material	There is nothing in this book's title or product description that indicates that it teaches XML programming.  If that's the type of book you're seeking I recommend \\"Definitive XML Application Development\\" by Lars Marius Garshol.  If, however, you're an architect, chief technical officer or IT functional manager this book will provide you with one of the most complete and comprehensive descriptions of XML that's available.<br />What you get is a thorough examination of XML, from its SGML beginnings to what it has evolved into, how to use it to solve real business problems, and the related specifications.  Because this book is over 1200 pages it can be overwhelming.  However, you need not read it in sequence, or even cover-to-cover to get value.  It's a reference and a business case combined, and is best used as a resource in the architecture group or shared among developers who need to ensure that what is being developed is in line with W3C specifications. In addition, the overwhelming array of applications that come on the two CD ROMs will save a lot of time downloading trial copies from their vendors, and give you many choices to evaluate for internal use.  It also saves expensive developer (or consultant) time and corporate bandwidth.<br />If you work with XML you'll find this book to be one of the best general references you can own. Better yet, get \\"The Definitive XML Professional Toolkit\\", which contains this book and two others, and you'll have a ready-made XML reference library.	2002-07-02
US	46194801	R26EHR71LJ5SYM	0201773635	117020595	Learning SQL: A Step-By-Step Guide Using Oracle	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Wonderful Book That Clearly Explains Unclear Topics	Despite the pile Oracle Certified Professional training material I received in class and the OCP certification books on SQL, there were aspects that I didn't fully understand until I read this excellent book.  <br />Part I contains the absolute basics, all of which are as applicable to IT professionals and business users.  The first three chapters are standard fare in most books of this sort - getting started and the basic commands (SELECT, CREATE, etc.).  It's in Chapters 3-9 where the clarity of the author's writing pays off.  These chapters cover Cartesian products, joins and aliases; set operations; grouping and sub queries.  These are not easy to grasp by beginners, but the book clearly explains each, and also goes into details such as the differences between a join and sub queries, sub query correlation and similar topics.<br />Part II of the book covers more advanced tasks that are more suited to DBAs., with some material that will interest advanced business users and IT business systems analysts.  For the DBA only are chapters on creating tables and using Oracle's SQL*Loader, triggers and PL/SQL (although some advanced business users employ PL/SQL it's rare, and the focus in the chapter on the subject is more in line with DBA uses).  For all readers the chapter titled \\"Multiple Commands, START Files, and Reports\\" contains highly useful information, especially on how to do crude branching with the DECODE statement.  The four appendices are also valuable references, and cover using Oracle in the UNIX environment, data dictionaries, the student database and associated tables, and improvements that Oracle made to 8i and 9i. <br />If you're pursuing your OCP certification and find that the class materials are too terse, or that the books are more focused on getting you through the exam instead of teaching you how to use SQL, get this book.  For business users, IT business systems analysts and others who need to write and execute queries against an Oracle databaseand need a solid introduction to SQL this book will meet their needs.	2002-07-02
US	46194801	R2WXAD88TKUU9L	0471406775	61407372	E-Business and ERP: Rapid Implementation and Project Planning	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Structured, Realistic and Well Thought Out	This book covers what it takes to successfully manage a rapid implementation project for any enterprise-wide application.  It does so in a structured and realistic manner that addresses risks, critical success factors and common deliverables. Project management is much more than common sense - it requires a process and skillful use of PM techniques, such as those contained in PMI's Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK).  This is reinforced by the appalling number of IT projects that either fail or are cancelled.  While this book doesn't go deeply into specific PM techniques, nor does it especially align to the PMBOK, it does provide a realistic framework.  It also gives a complete list of risks and barriers to success that you'll encounter in ERP and other complex systems projects.<br />I especially like the way the author decomposes the systems into layers and the project approach into phases.  These allow you to step back and see the big picture, and to do a better job of estimating scope, complexity and required resources before embarking on the project.  The project management approach itself is solid, and is linked to critical success factors that will make or break any project.  He also provides excellent advice on team management, and especially team communications and cross functions.<br />Managing complex projects are not easy, and this book contains no short cuts.  It does show you how to plan and control a rapid implementation project for any enterprise system, and if the advice and general approach provided in this book is heeded and followed your chances for success will be dramatically improved.  Just don't let anyone who thinks it's a matter of plain common sense anywhere near the project because you'll find the project to be just another statistic in the boneyard of failed IT projects.	2002-07-02
US	46194801	R3VQ3NS0U8F8CG	1929065078	487153661	Best Practices in Policies and Procedures	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Unique - raises the bar for policies and procedures writers	This book is best read after reading the author's previous three books because this one ties together the techniques and processes for developing policies and procedures by linking them to corporate strategy. <br />As in his previous books the sequence of steps is clearly laid out, leading you from vision to strategy to process development.  These are the basis for policies and procedures, and if done as described in this book your policies and procedures will trace back to processes, which will trace back to strategy, and the strategy will be consistent with the vision statement.  It's this chain of traceability that separates best practices from ad hoc policies that may or may not be aligned to company business imperatives.<br />The real value that you'll get from this book comes from the example policies and procedures that are included in the last part of the book.  There aren't reprinted. Instead you're given the URLs that point to these documents on the web.  The ones that are included truly represent best practices, and there is an example from most of the major industries, including non-profit organizations and government agencies.  In addition to the example documents, there are also URLs for standards bodies and repositories of specific information (auditing, software process improvement, project management, etc.). Because URLs do frequently change the book's associated web page has the same listing that is updated when links are reported to be broken or new resources are added. In addition, each chapter ends with a bibliography of recommended books, which will significantly shorten your research as you develop a comprehensive and encompassing set of policies and procedures that are traceable.   <br />Another nice feature is the fact that the author gives his personal e-mail address in the book and will respond to questions. I know from personal experience that he listens to his readers and dispenses excellent advice when a rare question not covered in oneof his books arises.  My recommendation is to get the entire set of books (&quot;Establishing a System of Policies and Procedures&quot;, &quot;Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures&quot; and &quot;7 Steps to Better Written Policies and Procedures&quot;), work through them in that order, then apply the approach in this book to develop and implement policies and procedures that are traceable and reflect true best practices.	2002-07-02
US	46194801	R2VXN1VLH2GMUB	1880410427	231865432	Managing the Project Team (Human Aspects of Project Mangement, Volume Three)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Well written reminder of what we should be doing	This 240-page book covers the key issues for managing project teams.  It covers the full range of issues and provides advice for managing project change, team dynamics and cultural diversity, and developing effective project teams.<br />It goes into areas such as how to inspire team performance, and how to develop self-managed work teams, then transform them into self-motivated project teams.  It also contains self-assessment exercises that are valuable checkpoints as you follow the advice in the book.<br />Most of the advice is common sense, but the material should be read by every practicing project manager at least once a year for a reminder of what's important.	2002-06-23
US	46194801	R63HIXMGC3A7M	0201675285	801634702	Component-Based Development: Principles and Planning for Business Systems (Addison-wesley Object Technology Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	High level & non-technical business case for CBD	This book is an excellent and clearly written introduction to component-based development from business and software engineering process perspectives.<br />It does not contain technical information for developing components in various environments, nor does it go into the relative merits of component-based development from the viewpoint of any vendor.  What it does contain is a tutorial on component-based development as a software engineering discipline, and makes a strong business case for adopting this approach to software development.<br />If you're expecting an end-to-end life cycle you may be somewhat disappointed because the book only covers the design through build phases of development.  However, since this book is more about showing the value of components this scope is more than sufficient.  If, on the other hand, you are evaluating component-based development as a business strategy you'll like the details about the value and underlying processes, and how this approach differs from more traditional software development.  In particular you'll like the way the author goes into organizational issues (who owns the process), and the unique requirements of component-based development (such as strict configuration control and reuse strategies, and cataloging and certifying components). The case study at the end of the book pulls the preceding 13 chapters together and provides a realistic view of the strengths and weaknesses of components.	2002-06-23
US	46194801	R3LKL3LXFMBW0O	0273626809	955954748	The Project Workout : A Tool Kit for Reaping the Rewards from All Your Business Projects [First Edition]	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A rare gem	This is one of the most business-focused books on project management that you can read.  Where other books go into techniques that are specific to project planning, scheduling and control, this one ensures that business issues are interwoven into each element of project management.<br />Parts that set this book apart from the others include an emphasis on developing a business case and the structured way in which all project stakeholder requirements are considered in project quality and reporting.  I also like the way projects are managed at the enterprise level as portfolios and integrated into programs instead of standalone projects.  In addition, the many forms, checklists and diagrams are highly useful and can be used with little or no modification.  <br />This book is also completely consistent with the PMI PMBOK and UK PRINCE2 methodologies, and the author's web site that supports this book contains a wealth of up-to-date information that adds to the value of this book.	2002-06-23
US	46194801	R1RZOTK2YMUEFF	0205283179	290874875	Visual Statistics	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Teaches you how to *understand* statistics	I've struggled with statistics for years, and had resigned myself to continuing that struggle until I read this wonderful book.  Where most books assume that you remember lessons from high school this one starts from scratch. It also differs from other books by teaching you how statistics work instead of force feeding you formulas that you learn by rote, but do not impart an understanding of how statistics work.<br />I like the way that this book uses illustrations and clearly describes the 'whys' to make statistics come alive. Shortly after I started reading this book (which is actually interesting!), I began seeing the significance of data distributions, relationships and dependencies.  This not only will improve your understanding of statistics, but also gives you the confidence to tackle problems that may have intimidated you or were beyond your knowledge level.<br />If you need to quickly refresh your knowledge and skills, or want to understand statistics instead of crunching formulas, this book is a fast way to get there.	2002-06-23
US	46194801	R1SZA68SJ42R80	0964560631	912690400	Effective Business Writing: Write Tight and Right	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Write well and enjoy it	This book is ideal for the busy professional who want to improve his or her writing skills because it teaches the art of clear and concise writing.  What I like is that the authors practice what they preach.  <br />The book is short and to the point.  It's also easy to read and reinforces each key point with writing drills.  It also covers common mistakes, how to structure business documents to clearly and effectively get ideas across, and makes the process of writing fun.<br />If you need a quick refresher on writing or just want to tighten up your business correspondence this book may be one of the best investments you can make. It certainly sharpened my skills and taught me valuable techniques.	2002-06-23
US	46194801	RP5GU7M8CI6O5	1588203441	147574171	Understanding the Essentials of the Six Sigma Quality Initiative	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Clear and concise introduction to a complex subject	This short book does one thing and does it well - clearly explains what Six Sigma is and why it's important. It accomplishes this in less than 100 pages, making it a succinct guides to a highly complex topic.<br />Practitioners will find the material too basic, but business managers will find it sufficient to see the value of a Six Sigma initiative.  It's also useful for communicating an initiative and its importance to employees who are not directly involved, but need to be on board to imbue it into the corporate culture.<br />It devotes the first 35 pages to explaining the what's and why's in clear, non-technical prose, and the rest of the book covers the how's by explaining each of the tools that are used to achieve Six Sigma. Each tool, ranging from Analysis of Variance to Team Development, is quickly described at a high level, with all key factors and a brief summary of what it is and how to use it.  <br />If you are a member of the organizational implementation team I recommend that this book used to communicate the reasons for the initiative and what Six Sigma will mean to your organization to employees. If you have a direct role in Six Sigma and your statistics are rusty I recommend augmenting this book with Visual Statistics by Jack R. Fraenkel, Enoch I. Sawin and Norman E. Wallen.	2002-06-23
US	46194801	R2MDR7TOXM75O1	0130909335	814721640	Database Systems Using Oracle: A Simplified Guide to SQL and PL/SQL	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wonderful learning tool	This book is remarkable  for the clear manner in which it explains the basics of relational databases in general and Oracle in particular. I am currently in training for Oracle Certified Professional and had been using study guides and class material to learn Oracle.  These are fine for passing the OCP exam, but they leave many gaps in the finer points which lead to thoroughly understanding Oracle.<br />Since this book's goal is to explain Oracle's SQL Plus and PL/SQL languages instead of getting you through an examination with a passing grade it goes into details that my training missed. I especially like the way that database concepts, design and modeling are covered in the first chapter, and the step-by-step approach to teaching SQL and PL/SQL by actually performing useful tasks such as creating tables and working with tables. <br />In addition to the basics, this book covers advanced topics such as row locking, performance and joins and set operations.  PL/SQL is given the same thorough treatment as SQL Plus and as you read through the book and actually perform the tasks on a real Oracle instance your understanding and skill level increases greatly.  Since PL/SQL is rich in features and programming constructs the care with which the author explains the basics and how to apply them in a real environment made learning fun and builds your self confidence. <br />I also liked the attention given to database administration tasks in the final part of the book, and found the SQL Plus and PL/SQL quick reference in the back of the book useful on many occasions.<br />If you don't have the luxury of attending Oracle training this book is an excellent substitute, and even if you're going through OCP training this book will fill in the gaps that will surely arise since the course is fast paced.  Note that this book uses Oracle 8i as the example environment, but the material works with the newer 9i version too.	2002-06-04
US	46194801	R2Y6U0TM8MDN4F	0072132183	982714840	Oracle9i Instant PL/SQL Scripts	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Starter kit for new DBAs	This collection of scripts is a great starter kit for new DBAs because it contains highly useful code for nearly all of the basic administration, tuning and troubleshooting tasks encountered on the job.<br />What I like is this isn't just a collection of code on a CD ROM, but each script is carefully explained in the text of the book.  For someone like myself who is still in OCP training the explanations are almost as valuable as the code.  Although the title claims that the scripts are for Oracle 9i, they also work with 8i, and the book covers what modifications (if any) need to be made to use each script in earlier versions of Oracle.	2002-06-04
US	46194801	R1LX9HZ3FCELEJ	0743225805	592016606	21 Dog Years: A Cube Dweller's Tale	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Fast read, lots of laughs and a wonderful diversion	Synopsis:  Topical, hilarious and short. If you work in a cube farm or for a start-up in any industry you'll recognize the situations and players because they are not just at Amazon or in the Pacific Northwest, but are an amalgamation of corporate America and the wage slaves that exemplify the contemporary workplace.<br />This is a fast, easy read.  On one level it's an amusing story filled with trivia and told in an irreverent, politically incorrect 'rap'.  Each page contains something that will make you chuckle or laugh out loud.  View it as a loosely connected series of vignettes that deliver absurdities, improbable situations that have basis in fact and a broad characterization of life in the fast lane  - where fast lane is defined by wild growth presided over by people whose brilliant ideas are only exceeded by their eccentricities. One example that sticks in my mind is about Jeff Bezo's love of dogs and his policy of allowing employees to bring their dogs to work at the corporate headquarters.  What happened was the dogs formed packs and roamed the halls, which paints a vivid picture of the absurd while showing the surreal nature of working for as company led by personalities that were a bit left of the centerline.  <br />I also loved the way Daisey captures the essence of personality types - his description of Employee #5, a brilliant but quirky Unix guru is the archetype for every system programmer and Unix guru in the universe: extremely intelligent and utterly lacking in social skills and a sense of the real world around them.  In fact, Daisey's keen powers of observation and ability to paint pictures in prose that reminds me of Tom Wolf's \\"Electric Kool-aid Acid Test\\" makes him the spokesman for a generation of dockers-clad, 30-somethings that baffle their older coworkers.  He also has a touch of Hunter Thompson, especially in his e-mails, which are remarkably similar in style and spirit to Thompson's pre-gonzo letters, such as \\"The Proud Highway\\".  In fact, this book comes close to Thompson's \\"The Great Shark Hunt\\" for style and a humorous look at the absurd.<br />However, the bottom line is this book is plain fun and will be meaningful to anyone trapped in a cube farm or who is working 70+ hours a week with no idea why.  It'll add a little sanity and more than a few laughs to that insane thing you call life.	2002-06-04
US	46194801	R3GYMMRULIKJ76	0072195274	687117856	OCP Oracle9i Database: Performance Tuning Exam Guide	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Best in the series and very well written	This book is not only an excellent study guide for both the OCP classes and the exam, but a wonderfully written explanation of the complexities of performance and tuning.  Of all of the material I've read on this subject [for training and examination purposes], nothing has made more sense or been more enlightening than this book.<br />All of the key elements of performance tuning are covered, the illustrations are excellent and aid in understanding, and the drills, self tests and practice questions have been a tremendous help.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R36VK97XAYFISG	0072195371	468210964	OCP Introduction to Oracle9i: SQL Exam Guide	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Both frustrating and helpful	I got this book with OCP Oracle9i DBA Certification Boxed Set, so I didn't specifically select it based on skimming at a bookstore.  Yes, it has errors. Errors notwithstanding (and there are many), this book has helped me greatly during my OCP training.  However, it's important to know what there are errors, and to read the errata, else you will question your own sanity.<br />To be fair, the book has proven more helpful than not, especially since the OCP course I am taking is fast-paced and the instructor tends to gloss over information that is more important that I realized in class.<br />Be aware of the fact that this book does have errors, make sure you read the errata and you'll find it quite helpful.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	RS74YSVT0ACIG	097116472X	842377972	Hot Topics: Flashcards for Passing the PMP Exam	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Fun and effective	This 643 page learning aid is simple to use and highly effective. It's in near pocket-size format, with an upper spiral binding to use as flip cards.  On the face of each card is a term, and on the reverse is a definition.  It's designed for you to use simple, effective memory drills to recognize key terms you will encounter on the PMP exam and the correct definition.  The definitions are usually in bullet style and are consistent with the correct exam answers.  <br />Key points: it reflects the PMBOK 2000 edition and also covers professional responsibility topics.  You may want to also get the audio tape titled &quot;Hot Topics: Audio Way to Get Ready for the PMP Exam&quot; and use both as an extra effective learning strategy.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R1C1PSOY65BNZ4	0971610363	982729999	Merrill Lynch: The Cost Could Be Fatal: My War Against Wall Street's Giant	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Goliath 1, David 0 - a sorry tale of punished ethics	This is a chronicle of one man's attempt to do the right thing only to pay a high price in his personal and professional life.  The book opens with a quote from Merrill Lynch's corporate counsel made then the author joined the firm, &quot;[b]ut let integrity slip and take second place to revenue - then it will cost more than dollars. The cost could be fatal.&quot; This sets the background in what was to become a war of one rookie financial consultant against hypocrisy and internal expediency that was the opposite of the lofty rhetoric of the corporate counsel.<br />As the story unfolds there are interesting dynamics among the corporate organism and some of the players that emerge, and a clear indictment of the government oversight and industry self-regulation that were supposed to quickly address and remedy the incidents that the author reported.  An example of the dynamics is shown when one of the managers who was ultimately fired as a result of the author's whistle blowing assisted the author.  His motivation had nothing to do with new found ethics or conscience as much as revenge.  The cavalier and bumbling manner that characterized the NASD investigation of the author's allegations.  It gets worse: one of the Merrill Lynch senior executives against whom charges of wrongdoing that was to be investigated was actually serving as a member of the NASD District Business COnduct Committee in the district charged with the investigation. The posturing by Merrill Lynch executives, the documented evidence that they were more concerned with damage control than remediation, and the incredible power they wielded over government and industry overseers only added to an appalling, but not surprising story. The reason it's not surprising is that the Enron story has prepared many who read this book for what should be shocking revelations.  I fear, though, that many of us have grown jaded and cynical by that debacle. However, this is a story about a real person and not a faceless mass of shareholders, which adds a personal touch.<br />The bottom line is that through a legal clause the author could not have his day in court.  Instead he was forced to go through arbitration and lost.  That too is no surprise since the same internecine relationship between Merrill Lynch and NASD and the government existed with those who professionally arbitrate in that industry.<br />A few things about the story - there is no bitterness or rancor on the part of the author.  He is fair and objective, and writes in an even manner.  He names people by name, has thoroughly documented the episode and has left it to the body of readers to be the court of public opinion.  The book is a good read, and it may just expose some of the fallacies in the very systems that are designed to protect us as individuals, consumers and shareholders.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R2EN404FT7MXBY	0971164754	2155616	Hot Topics: Audio Flashcards for Passing the PMP Exam	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Listen and learn	This 87 minute CD covers 650 hot topics in audio format in the same manner as the author's &quot;Hot Topics: Flashcards for Passing the PMP Exam&quot;.  It's a painless way to learn the key terms and their official definitions, which you will encounter on the PMP exam.  If used in conjunction with the paper flashcards you'll have a powerful two-pronged approach to preparing for the exam.  The terms and definitions are up-to-date and reflect the content of the PMBOK 2000 edition.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R27VV68VR8IYOR	0072195436	576154450	OCP Oracle9i Database: Fundamentals II Exam Guide	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Strengths and weaknesses	While this book does a reasonable job of explaining the key knowledge areas of the Fundamentals II exam, I found &quot;OCP: Oracle9i DBA Fundamentals II Study Guide&quot; by Doug Stuns and Matthew Weishan to be more complete and in depth.  I used that book during my OCP training as a primary reference for Fundamentals II.<br />I've read through this book, which I got when I purchased the OCP Oracle9i DBA Certification Boxed Set, and found it to be reasonably accurate and adequately written. I would say that both books have unique strengths and weaknesses and choosing one over the other is more a matter of personal preference.  The advantage to this one, however, is the value if you get it as part of the boxed set.  <br />Among the strong points of this book are the self tests and practice exam questions.  Weaknesses include poor editing, which seems to plague this series, and the inconsistent writing that is at times extremely clear and others quite obtuse.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R3N963PPKCV5LE	0971164746	674305650	Situational and Professional Responsibility Q & A: A Pocket Guide of Questions and Answers about the More Difficult Topics on the PMP Exam	Books	5	11	12	N	N	One of a kind book on important PMP exam areas	This single-topic, 208 page book focuses on preparing you for two aspects of the PMP exam:<br />(1) the situational questions, of which there can be as many as 150<BR>(2) professional responsibility questions<br />Both aspects are barriers to passing the exam and this book is probably the most complete and definitive guide you can study to prepare for these exam areas.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R37VA3RJE4FOGW	0072195401	353254624	OCP Oracle9i Database: Fundamentals I Exam Guide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Some problems, but helpful nonetheless	Although I haven't taken the OCP exam yet, I have been using this book (which I got with the OCP Oracle9i DBA Certification Boxed Set) as a reference during my training.  Since the classes are compressed and fast this book has cleared up a lot of information that was only touched upon by my instructor.<br />Since I have not taken the exam I cannot predict how useful this book is for preparation; however, it gives clear information and has more than once allowed me to understand concepts that I was unable to get in class.<br />Note: there are editing flaws and inconsistent writing that do make this book ponderous at times.  There have been times when I wished the authors and editors had paid more attention to the book, and other times when I silently thanked them for clarifying a concept.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R3HHH81HHIKMNK	0672323052	383715726	Understanding Directory Services (2nd Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Second Edition is completely updated and excellent!	This second edition represents a major overhaul of the first edition, and addresses each of the issues cited in the previous review.  The authors have done a remarkable job in this edition by clearly explaining the fundamentals of directory services in general and going into the details of specific implementations that have either a large installed base, are used by large corporations or both.<br />Highlights include complete and clear explanations of directory services at the conceptual level, how they fit into an enterprise-wide infrastructure, and how they have evolved as the foundation of identification and authentication, as well as a more pervasive security approach.<br />The early models, DNS and X.500, are given detailed treatment.  Although DNS is not a feature rich directory service, it does qualify as a legitimate one and its inclusion is a nice touch.  I liked the clear explanation of LDAP, which either is implemented in many organizations or is the basis for commercial products such as Novell's eDirectory.<br />Two commercial products that are covered in great detail are eDirectory and Microsoft's Active Directory. Since each author has extensive experience with, and certifications in, these products the material is credible and sets the book apart by giving a balanced view of two competing products without bias towards either.<br />Three other parts of this book are valuable:<br />(1) Discussion of metadirectory services - this section covers the basics and contains good (but brief) material about Siemen's DirXMetahub, Sun/Netscape's iPlanet metadirectory and Microsoft's metadirectory services, Novell's DirXML and Radiant Logic's RadiantOne VDS.  While these products are in many ways niche players (except for the Microsoft and Novell offerings), the description of them indicates where metadirectory services are evolving.<br />(2) Directory mark-up languages - this section covers XML and offshoots that are specific to directory services, such as DMSL and Novell's DirXML.  Given the fact that XML is a web services building block this section of the book is particularly valuable.<br />(3) Evaluating directory services -  the complete, unbiased method for evaluating directory services that the authors provide reflect their objectivity as well as a sensible approach to ensure that both business and technical factors are taken into account.  <br />If you are exploring directory services as an infrastructure component or need to understand them, this book provides the most objective and complete  explanation of the fundamentals and key issues, as well as a survey of standards and products.  It's up to date and easy to read.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	R65S77W6OM2UU	0971164703	946671431	PMP Exam Prep	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Efficient and effective PMP preparation tool	This 244 book fills in the gaps in the PMBOK 2000, and also provides complete coverage of professional responsibility topics and requirements.  It's designed as a 120 hour course of instruction, and is focused on the important knowledge factors that you'll encounter on the PMP exam.  <br />It provides clear and complete explanations of the PMBOK 2000 core concepts without the fuzziness or verbosity that characterizes the PMBOK.  It also contains exercises and practice exams to help you prepare, and gives tips on what to study, including material that will be on the exam that is not covered in the PMBOK. <br />What I like about this guide is the lack of fluff, the focus on learning the exam and the preparatory advice that is given.	2002-05-28
US	46194801	RC9B0PSHMHKLF	0782140645	8632941	OCP: Oracle9i DBA Fundamentals II Study Guide	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Untested as an exam prep, but has save me during training	As I write this review I am still in class for Oracle OCP.  What makes this book so invaluable is that the class is fast-paced and often zips past important topics.  This book has allowed me to dig deeper into topics covered during class and fill in material that the instructor either missed or glossed over. <br />This book focuses on Oracle networking, backup and recovery and SQL*Loader. It not only gives the essentials in study format, but does an excellent job of explaining each of the topics clearly and succinctly.  Although I am using this book to get through the training and to also prepare for my OCP exam, I will also keep it as a reference when I begin putting my certification to use as a new DBA.<br />I cannot make claims about how the material in this book addresses the actual exam since I haven't taken them, but it has significantly helped me keep up in a fast-paced training course.	2002-05-27
US	46194801	R235M1R9J2J657	1880410818	734682813	Project Management Institute Practice Standard for Work Breakdown Structures	Books	5	33	38	N	N	80 page guide to an important topic	The four chapters in this short, focused book introduce work breakdown structures, define them from a conceptual point of view, explain why they are the foundation of project planning, and show how to create one.  These chapters comprise a scant 18 pages, but are thorough enough to accomplish the objective of explaining the Project Management Institute's practice standards for WBS.<br />The real value of the book is contained in appendices E through O, in which a WBS for common industry project types are given as examples. These 44 pages are the real reason to buy the book because they show real examples of the conceptual and brief &quot;how to&quot; approach compressed into the first 18 pages.  The project types in these appendices are:<BR>E - Oil, Gas, and Petrochemical (OGP)<BR>F - Environmental Management<BR>G - Process Improvement<BR>H - Pharmaceutical<BR>I - Process Plant Construction<BR>J - Service Industry Outsourcing<BR>K - Web Design<BR>L - Telecom<BR>M - Refinery Turnaround<BR>N - Government Design-Bid-Build<BR>O - Software Implementation<br />Appendices A-D are filler that descripe the PMI standards process and associated information, and can be safely skipped unless you are interested in those topics.<br />Overall this is a much needed book because WBS are still skipped during the project planning phase in too many projects.  This is unfortunate because the first thing that a professional does when called in to rescue a project is to examine the WBS, and if there isn't one, the first step towards rescuing a project is to develop one. By following this book, especially if any of the example WBS is similar to your project, will go a long way towards ensuring its success.	2002-05-27
US	46194801	RBODD5TEP32CO	1880410729	214165048	People in Projects	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Emphasis on the imnportant element of managing projects	A friend who is an experienced PM once remarked that there are three stages to becoming an enlightened project manager: (1) learning the techniques, (2) realizing that it's really about people, and (3) Epiphany - it's about ensuring that someone else gets the blame if things go wrong and 1 &amp; 2 are core skills in achieving this.<br />Regardless of how true his theory is, this book will certainly get you to the second stage of enlightenment, and also provide you with the knowledge and skills to manage stakeholder expectations, use effective intervention methods when things do get off track, and to maintain high project team morale.  <br />The nine chapters in this 305 page book systematically cover all aspects of the people part of the equation.  It starts with an accurate description of key management skills and duties required of a PM.  It then addresses the basics of organizational planning, which focuses on roles and responsibilities.  From personal experience I can attest that establishing roles and responsibilities is essential to project success.<br />Chapter 3, Human Resource Theory and Charts, sets the tone for the chapters on Staff Acquisition and Kickoff, and Team Development, both of which provide refined techniques for managing people and teams.  <br />I particularly liked the chapters on resolving conflict (something that PMs deal with daily) and managing change, which is a constant.  Since I work with multi-cultural teams that are international (mainly in India and the Middle East) I also liked the chapter titled Worldwide Teams and Cultural Issues.  <br />The chapter on project closeout and evaluation is a good reminder that there is a shutdown phase to projects, and this chapter provides guidance for how to perform this step in a structured manner.  <br />Although this is a book on the PMI approach to project management, the material is also applicable to any project management methodology, including the UK standard (PRINCE2) and CompTIA's IT Project +.	2002-05-27
US	46194801	RIZKKQERJ607U	0070580316	823882164	Schaum's Quick Guide to Business Formulas: 201 Decision-Making Tools for Business, Finance, and Accounting Students	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Not just for students	This is a reprint of &quot;McGraw-Hill Pocket Guide to Business Finance: 201 Decision-Making Tools for Managers&quot; with a single difference.  The now out-or-print book came with a runtime version of MathCAD and formulas for using each of the tools, while this new version does not.  Also, don't let the title fool you - this book is as useful to working professionals as it is to students.  <br />The 201 tools contained in this small, highly useful book range from Acid Test (doing a quick ratio of financials) to Z-Scores. Each tool is listed alphabetically, its use explained, and instructions on how to use it is provided. What I particularly liked is the worked examples that accompany each tool.<br />As an IT consultant who specializes in service delivery this book is not one I would normally include in my professional library. I was introduced to it when a colleague and I were writing a white paper on recovery management. We were searching for a way to link business imperatives to justification for investment in recovery strategies. We found one piece of the puzzle in this book - the Altman Z-Score. This tool predicts whether or not a company is likely to enter into bankruptcy within one or two years. This led to the development of a copyrighted model that addressed survival level objectives, and also became a key part of the Tarrani-Zarate Information Technologies Management Model. All this from a single entry in a small book!<br />Aside from discovering a relatively obscure, but important, tool I also found other useful tools in this book. Because I am not a business consultant or financial expert the tools were like a cram course in financial management for non-financial people. For example, I was able to apply some of the tools to personal financial matters - the real costs of a loan become quickly apparent when you compute them. I was also able to employ some of the tools to conduct realistic cost/benefit analyses, examine trade-offs supporting approaches to projects, etc. In this respect this small book has significantly improved my professional skills and has inspired me to read other books on financial management.<br />I strongly recommend this book - collection of tools really - to anyone who deals with finance, anyone who has P&amp;L responsibilities, and business and IT consultants. The latter group will find this book to be invaluable for developing proposals, deliverables and project plans that add value.	2002-05-27
US	46194801	R7Z6CBJ6GCVUT	0130219142	8104876	Project Management: Best Practices for IT Professionals	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great blend of people &amp; process, reflects real issues	Skillfully blends the people and process aspects of project management into a systematic approach. This is important because emphasis on people to the exclusion of metrics is a sure way to have high morale while losing control of the project.  Conversely, emphasis on process and metrics to the exclusion of people will result in alienated people who will express their low morale in the form of missed goals and in many cases fabricating metrics.<br />This book provides the necessary ingredients for managing the people and the processes, and gives excellent techniques for setting and managing to scope, and focusing on the end goal of the project - to deliver a system - by using task/deliverable combinations.  These are mature practices and, despite the growing number of certified project managers (PMP, PRINCE2 Practitioner, etc.), are still missing from most projects.<br />I agree with a previous reviewer that by not using earned value project management techniques (which are now a part of the PMI PMBOK) the author has left a large gap with respect to controlling projects.  It's up to the reader to recognize this and either obtain information about earned value from the PMBOK 2000 or from a book such as &quot;Earned Value Project Management&quot; by Quentin W. Fleming and Joel M. Koppelman.<br />Despite the gap this is an excellent book that accurately portrays the challenges of managing an IT project and gives you the tools, techniques and advice necessary to successfully deliver a system.	2002-05-26
US	46194801	R2GB5TABJA758G	1580535089	19139792	Systematic Software Testing (Artech House Computer Library)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Destined to be the standard reference for test processes	There are two things about this book that make it the best book on software testing that's currently available: (1) it gives you a complete, proven process and the details and documents needed to implement and use the process, and (2) it is a page turner.  Yes, a page turner, and the reason I make this claim is that on nearly every page is a text box that gives anecdotes, opinions and stories from real life. That, plus the conversational writing style that the authors effectively use makes what could be a dry topic lively and fun to read.<br />Good writing alone does not make a technical book 'the best currently available' without other distinguishing features.  Here's what sets this book apart from all others:<br />* The core processes and details are based on IEEE standards, but they don't adhere to them.  Instead the authors have taken the 15 years of experience from teaching a course that evolved into this book and have used what works, modified what doesn't work so well, and have incorporated field experience from their own testing background as well as suggestions and recommendations from their students.  The net result is a standards-based and systematic approach that is tempered with practical experience.<br />* All of the software testing artifacts and deliverables are provided in both template and worked example form.  This alone will give test engineers and their organizations a standard, proven format for these critical documents.<br />* Testing is not treated as a standalone process.  The authors show how testing is connected to requirements, business imperatives, and project management.  This is a realistic view of the real world.<br />There is much more to this book than the highlights I cited, but the previous reviewer covered them well.  I cannot think of a single client for whom I've consulted and advised who would not benefit from adopting this book as their test process manual.  I cannot think of a single topic of any importance that is not covered in the book, and believe that this book will become the standard reference for test process management for years to come.	2002-05-26
US	46194801	R1ITJAH527VIAR	0201719746	647789123	Introducing Software Testing (ACM Press)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It's about time!	Finally!  A book that answers the real questions about testing:  how to write and manage test plans.<br />I had despaired of finding a good book that reflected the real work testers do, which is analyzing, strategizing and writing.  Indeed, the act of testing is only the tip of the iceberg of the testing process and this book shows how to do what testers do, and do it the right way.<br />What makes this book so special is the way Louise Tamres shows the big picture in the introductory chapter, then leads you through the process of creating and refining test outlines that are used to develop test cases.  This is the most confusing part of testing for anyone who has been thrust into that role, and is made more confusing because many companies don't have standards.  The few times I have had to function as a test analyst there was no agreed upon approach, and it was like the blind leading the blind.  This book will prevent that from ever happening again because it clearly shows what needs to be done and how.  I like the way that simple test management tools like spreadsheets are used, because a lot of books on the subject cite very expensive test tools that are outside the budget of small companies.  This makes the book realistic and practical.  I also like the way each chapter is summarized, and the cases and examples are used to make the information real to the reader.<br />While the book shows how to develop the plans and test cases it also shows basic test techniques, including testing various software environments (web, object-oriented, performance and load, and end-to-end).  These are like a compass to the new tester because they give a direction.  I also like the way that associated activities, such as project and configuration management are included because these, too, are things that the new tester needs to be aware of.<br />If you're new to testing get this book and keep it nearby.  If you are experienced, you'll still learn a lot from the book.	2002-05-19
US	46194801	RPBQQW52025CF	0471253111	52389233	Secrets and Lies: Digital Security in a Networked World	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A classic and 'must read' book - raises awareness	This book introduces security and privacy to technical and non-technical readers alike. What I especially like are:<br />- Social aspects of security and privacy are addressed using the motives of attackers and broad profiles of attacker types, analysis of threats and countermeasures, and what it all means from legal and social perspectives.<br />- Easy introduction to security infrastructures. The author imparts a good deal of technical knowledge without overwhelming non-technical readers.<br />This book may initially disappoint technical readers who have read Mr. Schneier's earlier book (Applied Cryptography), but I can assure you that the technical underpinnings are only part of the picture.  This book gives a complete view of all aspects of security, and is invaluable because it raises awareness of all issues. It's all the more valuable because it can be read and understood by a broad audience. There are two other books that I recommend in addition to this one: \\"Know Your Enemy: Revealing the Security Tools, Tactics, and Motives of the Blackhat Community\\" (Mr. Schneier wrote the preface to this book), and Richard Hunter's \\"World Without Secrets: Business, Crime and Privacy in the Age of Ubiquitous Computing\\".	2002-05-13
US	46194801	R3HM2PBO1B20BQ	0849398339	180100866	Software Testing and Continuous Quality Improvement	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Most complete source of SW quality info in one place	This book represents the most complete and comprehensive approach to total quality of any I've read on either software testing or software quality assurance.<br />Highlights include:<br />- A structured quality cycle based on Plan-Do-Check-Act.  This cycle is the foundation of continuous improvement, which is the theme of the book.<br />- Complete description of testing techniques - in this respect the book is an encyclopedia for software test professionals and a definitive reference.<br />- Comprehensive resource for forms and checklists (I wish these were also provided in soft copy on a CD ROM or author's web site, but they are not).<br />- Full view of metrics across every aspect of the development life cycle. In the same manner that the testing techniques are encyclopedic, the metrics are also an encyclopedia for SQA professionals.<br />I've used this book as a reference, and it had a heavy influence on a reference chart a colleague and I developed for depicting life cycle key metrics.  It does not confine itself to testing alone, and in fact, has something for production services and service delivery professionals, as well as project managers involved with large scale development and implementation projects.  You would have to buy at least a dozen books or download thousands of documents off the Internet to get the information contained between the covers of this book.	2002-05-13
US	46194801	R1S894X1KEWYU7	0471412937	776595335	Business Rules Applied: Building Better Systems Using the Business Rules Approach	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Facts about an exceptional book	The fact is that this book covers business rules from an implementation approach, and does so in great detail. If you are new to business rules you should first read Business Rules and Information Systems: Aligning IT with Business Goals by Tony Morgan, which is better for beginners.  That book introduces business rules at a basic level.<br />This book expands Morgan's work by drilling down into details and exposing the nuances that a seasoned practitioner will appreciate.  However, the main value of this book is the way Ms. von Halle steps you through the complexities of implementing business rules as an organizational methodology.  This is not an easy task, but she manages to provide a complete and comprehensive approach that will guarantee success if carefully followed.  I think the work breakdown structure alone that is provided in the book makes it essential to anyone who is tasked with implementing business rules.  <br />In addition, the tables, checklists and documents and information from the book's web site add even more value.  This is an important book about an important topic.  It's not easy to read, but the diligent reader (assuming prior experience) will find everything he or she needs to know about business rules, the value proposition for using them, and how to implement them.  It's the most authoritative book on the subject, and will probably remain so for years to come.	2002-05-13
US	46194801	R2KCUNYFHWA3LH	0201722305	393088837	CyberRegs: A Business Guide to Web Property, Privacy, and Patents: A Business Guide to Web Property, Privacy, and Patents	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Complete IP primer for e-commerce	This is a complete primer on intellectual property and its value to the enterprise. Key issues that are addressed include:<br />Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)- this is probably the most important discussion in the book because it continues to be controversial.<br />Complete discussions of all aspects of intellectual property law as it pertains to cyberspace.  The clarification of the protections afforded to patent holders that are not given to trademark holders is invaluable.  In addition, I learned much about the value of patents and how a business model can be developed around patents alone. I particularly liked the discussion of patent ownership (employee inventor vs. company to which the patent was assigned).  This alone makes the book worth reading.<br />Case studies - many of the case studies which are used throughout the book focused on pending court cases when the book was published. Many have now been resolved, the resolution of which open more questions and further cloud issues.  I'd like to see an update or second edition that provides closure.<br />Excellent introduction to technical issues.  The author has a knack for reducing the key elements into easy-to-understand chunks of information that teach non-technical readers quite a lot about technology.<br />If you buy one book on intellectual property law from a cyber-business perspective, this is the one to get.	2002-05-13
US	46194801	R3NJQUPSPL8T5R	0970847114	725356686	Using Intellicad 2001	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Essential for IntelliCAD users	This book has two audiences:<BR>(1) Those who are exploring IntelliCAD as an alternative to AutoCAD or augmenting an AutoCAD shop with less expensive IntelliCAD seats.<BR>(2) IntelliCAD users.<br />For the first group this book comprehensively explains the similarities and differences between AutoCAD and IntelliCAD, including the limitations of IntelliCAD and some workarounds.<br />If you're an IntelliCAD user this book is both a tutorial and a technical reference manual.  It leads you through installing and configuring IntelliCAD, and how to use every feature, both basic and advanced.  Like most high end CAD programs IntelliCAD has a steep learning curve, and the bulk of this book is sequeced as lessons to train you in how to use it. If you're coming from an AutoCAD environment the learning curve will be less, but this book is still valuable because it has numerous comparisons between AutoCAD and IntelliCAD throughout.<br />It also covers advanced features such as file types, how to effectively use the programming languages built into IntelliCAD, and a plethora of advice and tips on digitizers and other programmable tools used in conjunction with then program.<br />If you are responsible for developing training materials or training IntelliCAD users, especially transition training for former AutoCAD users, this book is a ready-made resource that can be used as is.	2002-05-06
US	46194801	RXES6EVOVQMBV	0957778325	707218892	Planning Using Primavera SureTrak Project Manager Version 3.0	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Makes an incredible program more incredible	When I reviewed the SureTrak program here last may I considered myself to be an experienced used who fully understood the features of that powerful PM application.  After reading this book I found out that I was only using a fraction of the features that are built into SureTrak. For example, while I knew that it supported multiple calendars.  This feature gives you absolute control and is especially useful when you're using subcontractors or multi-national resources. Until I was stepped through it by the book's lessons I didn't know how to fully exploit its power.  <br />It was the same for reports.  SureTrak includes reports for every conceivable management style and project type.  The problem is there are so many that it's difficult to select the ones best suited to each project's unique requirements or your PM standards.  This book clearly explained the reports and clearly explained how to create custom reports in the unlikely event that what you need isn't already included.  I also learned a lot from the lessons on resource management, as well as the author's tips for project management in general.<br />If you're using SureTrak you should get this book because it's a safe bet that you're not using everything it has to offer for planning, scheduling and control - and this book will reveal them.	2002-04-26
US	46194801	R1TO8QWP41QDB0	0201730626	106120389	The CRM Handbook: A Business Guide to Customer Relationship Management	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Bridges business and technical - best book on the subject	This book is thorough, clear and filled with useful information. It's organized in two parts. Part 1 defines CRM in chapter 1 and in the next six chapters covers the reasons and issues for implementing CRM from five perspectives:  (1) Marketing, (2) Customer Service/Call Centers, (3) Sales Force Automation, (4) E-business and (5) Data Analysis.  The case studies, all based on real clients and situations, add life to the well written chapters on marketing, customer service and sales force automation.  In addition each chapter contains nuggets of insight, clear discussion of the topic and numerous checklists and tables that you can use for your own projects.<br />Part 2 covers delivering CRM and is structured in the logical sequence of planning, tool selection and CRM project management.  Like the first part of the book the four chapters in Part 2 contain case studies, checklists and excellent advice.  It is in this part of the book where you'll benefit from Jill's experience because she reveals common traps and pitfalls, and gives advice on how to deal with them or bypass them altogether.<br />What I like about this book is that it covers the business and technical parameters, requirements and issues.  Jill's writing style makes it not only readable, but engrossing as well.  She goes into considerable detail about how and why CRM is important to meeting business requirements and gives business metrics, explains differences between CRM and business intelligence, and the pro's and con's of all issues and factors. Because she covers the subject from the five perspectives I listed above this book is valuable to all possible stakeholders in a CRM project.  I especially liked her use of the Porter value chain and how she leads you through the development of a business case for CRM.<br />If you're involved in CRM, or are in a company that is implementing ISO9001:2000 (which requires that organizations have an effective method of measuring customer satisfaction to achieve ISO certification), then this book will be your most valuable source of information. If you want to see the dark side of CRM I recomment that you also read World Without Secrets by Richard Hunter, and for more information about CRM's underlying data I strongly recommend reading Jill's first book, e-Data: Turning Data into Information with Data Warehousing.	2002-04-21
US	46194801	R18R5W0WZVH6NU	0471218162	328818052	World Without Secrets: Business, Crime and Privacy in the Age of Ubiquitous Computing	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Dark side of CRM	It's ironic that I just finished reading a book about customer relationship management CRM) in which all of the elements are needed in order to implement and effectively use CRM are the same elements that this book exposes are threats to us as individuals. This book is chilling for a number of reasons, but the top ones (in my opinion) are:<br />(1) As an IT professional I am involved in CRM (customer relationship management), which has a goal of knowing your customer and providing individualized service - this requires knowing your customers and collecting data. After reading this book I had to step back and think about the impact on privacy and customer rights.  This is a Catch-22 situation wherein providing high levels of service requires a great deal of data, but the same data eats away at privacy.  <br />(2) The array of technologies to gather information, including those that have migrated from the intelligence community into business and/or law enforcement, further chip away at privacy.  This is exacerbated by laws passed and national attitudes since September 11.  Privacy and freedoms are interrelated, so these technologies, combined with laws and attitudes pose a threat to our freedom as well.  <br />(3)  Attitudes, business imperatives and social evolution are merging to change the entire social fabric of our way of life - and we are active participants in some aspects, and in other aspects we are facilitating this change.  The ways we are doing that is through willingness to accept changes that are detrimental to privacy, and/or the pursuit of meeting business imperatives and competitive advantage without fully examining the long term ramifications.<br />What I like is the way the author thoroughly and systematically addresses the threats to our privacy, freedom and well being.  The discussion in \\"Rise of the Mentat\\", aside from catering to fans of  Frank Herbert's sci fi masterpiece, Dune, will open your eyes about how information is processed and fed tous.  After reading this chapter you'll wonder how much you really know, and how much of what you think you know is based on all available facts and data.   However, the real eye-opener is the way that virtual communities are coming together in ways that could not have been predicted ten years ago.  The Internet has enabled people of like interests, both benevolent and malevolent, to find one another on this planet, band together and begin exerting influence.  In the same manner that maps drawn with political borders do not display cultural borders, these groups called \\"Network Armies\\" in the book go beyond cultural or national interests and are changing our social fabric in ways that the author only touches upon.<br />This book is well written, filled with examples and facts, and arrives at thought-provoking conclusions. It does not matter if you work in IT or another technology-focused industry, law, business or non-profit organizations, what this book has to say and the facts and conclusions that are presented are important.  If the author is correct (and I think he is), our lives are changing in dramatic ways and this book is a rough roadmap to where we're headed.	2002-04-21
US	46194801	R9NPH17PJJRFA	0201767368	765216704	The Adaptive Enterprise: IT Infrastructure Strategies to Manage Change and Enable Growth (IT Best Practices)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brings Infrastructure Management to a New Level	The infrastructure management approach that the authors give in this book incorporates practices from systems (and software) engineering, and is a blueprint for success.  The objectives are: (1) end-to-end management with no gaps in ownership, (2)cost efficiencies through reuse and component-based strategies, (3)holistic view that looks at business, operational and technology (instead of the common 'technology only' view), and adaptability (an infrastructure that is managed to long range goals, but can be quickly adapted to emerging and immediate business needs).<br />How the authors meet these objectives is by identifying physical, functional and interface components that make up the infrastructure and integrating them into a service-oriented framework.  This is consistent with component-based software engineering, and it is a remarkably good fit to infrastructure management.  Moreover, the authors introduce patterns, also borrowed from software and systems engineering disciplines, to map business requirements to design in an efficient manner that promotes reuse.  Another advantage of patterns is this approach captures knowledge (something not directly pointed out in the book).  If you're not familiar with process patterns the book I recommend for infrastructure professionals is More Process Patterns by Scott Ambler.  This is the second of a two book set and it directly addresses patterns that are related to infrastructure (the first book, Process Patterns, is more focused on software engineering).<br />The two chapters I liked the most are 4, Developing Adaptive Services, and 5, Services Starter Kit.  These chapters tie services to infrastructure and go into fine detail about how to integrate services and the underlying technology.  I especially like the way the authors use multiple life cycle management for each layer in the infrastructure.  Chapters 6 (Processes and Methods) and 7 (Packaging and People) neatly pull together the preceding chapters into a coherent, process-oriented strategy.  The single appendix is also valuable because it gives a comprehensive component catalog.  This catalog can be used as the basis of the infrastructure blueprint as well as the foundation of an encompassing asset management initiative.	2002-04-03
US	46194801	R2SLMCBN0R5TAD	0201729563	357492669	Building Scalable and High-Performance Java Web Applications Using J2EE Technology	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Clear description of important concepts	While this book uses J2EE as the basis for scalability and performance strategies in web application development, it is also useful regardless of the development and technical environment.<br />The author begins this book with the clearest and easiest-to-follow descriptions of performance and scalability and how to measure them that I've ever read.  The same treatment was given to web applications architecture, which is the second topic in sequence.  I like Mr. Barish's straightforward, conversational writing style and use of simple (but effective) illustrations, graphs and examples that make complex concepts easy-to-grasp.<br />I stated above that this book can be used outside of the J2EE environment, and here are the chapters that are generic enough to accomplish this: 1 (Scalable and High Performance Web Applications), 2 (Web Application Architecture), 4 (Scalability and Performance Techniques), 5 (HTTP Client/Server Communication), 10 (Effective Database Design) and 12 (The Future of Web Applications).  While each of these chapters are well written and go into sufficient detail for developers and architects I particularly liked chapter 10 because he explained relational database fundamentals and SQL programming with such clarity that I got more from the 42 pages that comprise this chapter than I did from a 300+ page book on the topic.  The follow-on chapter on JDBC and SQL is as well written.  Another reason why I liked chapter 10 is many developers understand how to develop servlets and components, but do not have sufficient understanding of relational databases.  This book rectifies that, which is particularly important since most real world applications are data intensive and need to connect to databases.<br />Additional strong points about this book include: code examples are only given to reinforce a concept or show an example.  Don't expect to find a recipe book based on code - this book is about making it scalable and giving it performance characteristics.  The J2EE-specific parts of the book use realistic examples and propose real world approaches.  However, the strongest aspect of this book is the author stays focused on scalability and performance throughout the book, always ending each chapter with scalability and performance hints that are related to the chapter's topic.<br />This book is for architects and software engineers who are building applications that support business-critical needs.  It's clear, concise and exceptionally well written.	2002-04-03
US	46194801	R3I91P2LVSW28W	0201767309	903460885	Enriching the Value Chain: Infrastructure Strategies Beyond the Enterprise	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Builds upon and supersedes authors' earlier book	This book is an extensive rework of the authors' &quot;The Adaptive Enterprise&quot;, and in my opinion supersedes that earlier book.<br />Like the first book this one borrows heavily from the software engineering community to employ proven techniques, such as layered design, patterns and a component-based approach to infrastructure.  Where this book extends and builds upon the earlier work is the emphasis on extending the corporate infrastructure into a meta infrastructure that is characterized by B2B and supply chains. As such it lives up to the title because the goal of the extended infrastructure is to enrich the value chain - or at least support the underlying business goals.<br />What I like about this book is what the authors propose is not only attainable, but makes good business sense. It starts with a 22-page introduction that clearly defines what is and is not infrastructure, and the concept of an adaptivity.  These are important to understanding the approach that follows.  Chapter 2, Laying the Foundation, quickly gives the basics for a layered infrastructure, develops a model for associated services that are needed to make the infrastructure adaptable, and drills down into service-related issues.  I am not in complete agreement with the impact that this approach has on IT organizational structures; however, I am not willing to write it off as unfeasible until I have a chance to carefully think it through. The ideas do have merit (on paper) and are better developed in the first book.<br />Much of the rest of the book is a rehash of &quot;The Adaptive Enterprise&quot;, but the material is slanted towards the extended infrastructure.  What is important is the emphasis on patterns and components as frameworks and building blocks. Where the first book brought infrastructure management to a new level, this book extends it in a manner that reflects the realities of connected enterprises defined by supply chain management and business partners.  Please see my review of &quot;The Adaptive Enterprise&quot; for specifics that apply to this book, and if you're deciding between the two books, this is the one to get.	2002-04-03
US	46194801	RV0H3QBOXKK3J	0201604450	710370598	The People Capability Maturity Model: Guidelines for Improving the Workforce	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Hope this finally catches on	In the seven years since the 1995 release of the P-CMM, version 1 I've not encountered any sincere effort by any US client to implement the process.  My personal theory is that the P-CMM was little known outside of the software engineering community, especially the DoD-related community, when it should have received wider dissemination to human resources and higher-level management.  This book from a mainstream publisher should change that.  With respect to the model itself, the previous reviewer has done a remarkable job of describing the model and how this book supports it.  I have a few additional notes to add:<BR>(1) This book is about version 2, which corrects some flaws in the first version which had team building at level 4.  In the version, 2, described in this book team building has been placed at level 3.<BR>(2) Another change from version 1 to version 2 is the alignment of the P-CMM to the CMMI, especially with respect to integrated product and process development.<BR>(3) Version 2 adds institutionalization goals to each process area.<br />If you have previous experience with the older versions of P-CMM, or CMM-SW, or the newer approaches as set forth in later versions and CMMI, you'll note that there are two implementation models: staged and continuous.  The staged approach is the only supported implementation for P-CMM version 2.<br />The book goes into extraordinary detail about the P-CMM and how to implement it.  You can easily use this book as a roadmap to achieving levels 2 through 5 of the P-CMM, or as a resource for improving the people part of the people-process-technology triad that defines IT.  As such you need not have certification as a goal to gain value from this book.  If you do decide to pursue certification at level 2 or higher, however, I strongly recommend that you also get a copy of Kim Caputo's 'CMM Implementation Guide'.  That book, while focused on implementing the CMM-SW, contains sage advice and a sound approach to dealing with the real problems that you'll encounter: organizational inertia and resistance, training and implementation issues and obtaining they key ingredient - commitment to perform.	2002-03-26
US	46194801	RAKBP34RBK8Z9	0130650749	600970146	The IT Payoff: Measuring the Business Value of Information Technology Investments	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Fresh look at attaining the elusive	There is a plethora of books on the subject of wisely investing in information technology.  If you immerse yourself in the literature you'll see that there are two distinct camps: the process-oriented, quantitative approach espoused by Dan Remenyi, and the holistic, 'there is no payoff' philosophy of Paul A. Strassmann.  This book is in the Remenyi camp, although it does address many of the paradoxical observations set forth by Strassmann.  <br />This book has 12 chapters that are presented as a process and the techniques and factors that are required to make the process work.  It begins with an introduction that discusses investment factors.  Chapter 2 discusses the productivity paradox that Strassmann is famous for exposing. Where the book picks up is from Chapter 3 onward, when strategic planning is introduced as the framework, and the discussion of failure analysis in Chapter 4.  This is one of my favorite chapters because it not only restates the obvious (you need top management commitment to embark on any strategic endeavor), it also provides references to documented failures and why they occurred.  Forearmed is forewarned.  In Chapters 5 (A Process Perspective) and 6 (Technology Payoff Metrics-Balanced Multiple Objectives) the roadmap to the process of nailing down the value of investments in IT and how to perform ongoing measurements is introduced.  The next chapter is almost a digression with the discussion of technology curves (the 'S' curve).  While this material gave insights into factors such as disruptive technologies and their impact, I think the entire chapter would have been better placed in the introduction.<br />In many respects the heart of this book lies in Chapters 8 and 9.  The survey of technology justification models discussed in Chapter 8 included three viable approaches: real options, economic value added and statistical approaches. Chapter 9 describes how to implement the IT payoff initiative to which the preceding chapters build by usinga four phase approach: I -Exploration, II - Involvement, III - Analysis and IV - Communication.  The final three chapters wrap up the book by examining the unique challenges imposed by eCommerce, a case study that dissects each of the four implementation phases, and an action plan for succeeding at IT payoff measurement.  If you want a quantitative, by-the-numbers approach to investing in IT, it boils down to this book or Dan Remenyi's &quot;The Effective Measurement and Management of It Costs and Benefits&quot;.  Neither are mutually exclusive, and you may find that the approach that is provided in this book, and the wealth of checklists and compatible approach in Remenyi's book will result in a larger payoff than by choosing one of these excellent books over the other.	2002-03-26
US	46194801	R32BLU4BHQPOBZ	0273613057	14204571	Managing I.T. at Board Level: The Hidden Agenda Exposed (The Financial Times / Pitman Publishing)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Interesting approach ... not a primary text	When this book was first published in 1991 it presented a viable approach to getting IT under control.  The 1995 second edition contained refinements and was even more valuable because it came out in the aftermath of the industry-wide movement to decentralize, which only reinforced the central theme of the book:  IT needs to be managed centrally.  Although this book is as valid today as it was when first published, others with a fresher approach have been published in the ensuing 7 years since the second edition.  However, this book is still invaluable as a secondary text for a number of reasons:<br />(1) It is focused on business control of IT, and centralized control at that.  This message needs to be reinforced, in my opinion, and the book provides compelling reasons for doing so.<BR>(2) Chapter 3's discussion of the IT director's job is really an examination of politics and challenges that still doggedly remain in IT in spite of being exposed year after year.  The case studies in this chapter alone make this book worth buying and reading.  Chapter 4, The Culture Gap, is also invaluable and shows that after 7 years since this edition came out that we're still grappling with the same old issues.<BR>(3) The book's anecdotes, case studies and pull-no-punches comments about pitfalls and challenges are sanity checks that should be revisited by pulling this book from your shelf, dusting it off and turning to a random page - you are sure to spot a phrase or illustration that will influence you.  Think of it as high-tech I Ching.<br />If you want a more up-to-date text on managing IT methodically and quantitatively I recommend anything written by Dan Remenyi.  However, if you want deep insights and a book from which you can find inspiration or ideas by turning to a random page, this will serve you long after the more technical tomes have lost their appeal.	2002-03-26
US	46194801	R2NOMTJUCRQPP4	0130620467	821129663	Demystifying ISO 9001: 2000: Information Mapping's Guide to the ISO 9001 Standard, 2000 Version (2nd Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful intro &amp; unique approach to documentation	I like this book for two reasons: (1) it steps you through what it takes to implement a quality system based on ISO 9001:2000, and (2) it shows how to develop your quality manual and documentation using Information Mapping techniques.<br />First, the approach to ISO 9001:2000. The author clearly explains what ISO 9001 is and what to expect in the certification process.  If you're new to ISO 9001 (or 9002 or 9003) then the comparison in Chapter 2 between the 1994 and 2000 versions can be safely skipped, but if your organization is already certified, or wish to move from 9002 or 9003 to 9001, then the explanation of the differences is extremely helpful. Chapters 3 through 8 are standard fare that you would expect to find in any book about ISO 9000-series.  What sets this book apart is the clear writing and ease of finding information.  If you've read other books on the subject you know how dry they can be.  This book is as lively as the subject matter permits (believe me, *any* book on the subject is going to be ponderous reading).<br />Chapter 9, Transition Planning, stands out as among the most valuable in the book (or any book about ISO 9000 in my opinion) because it covers the make-of-break issues for achieving certification. As an Information Mapping practitioner I especially liked the discussion of documentation considerations. I've long been convinced that Information Mapping and quality documentation should be integrated.  With respect to ISO 9001 there has been much reluctance on the part of companies pursuing registration to stray from the rather ugly standard format of quality documentation.  I hope this book changes that because the approach that the author proposes will add value to the quality manual by making it easy to read by all levels in your company, while keeping it 'assessor friendly' for certification and re-certification purposes.	2002-03-26
US	46194801	R3OL2ISD2JOHXG	0130258555	166155761	Resource Management (Sun Bluprints)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Approach and concepts that apply to all environments	This book provides in-depth coverage of resource management that can be applied to not only Solaris (or other UNIX systems), but to any system.  It accomplishes this by tying resource management to service level management, and does so with one of the best discussions of service level management in print.<br />Service level management, covered in chapter 2, clearly shows the service delivery cycle by exposing interactions among and between vendors, system managers and the systems being managed, and business users.  I especially like the resource management control loop discussion, which places the rest of the book into the context of support and service. Another innovation that is introduced in this book is the concept of viewpoints as they relate to performance and capacity: These viewpoints can be system-, cluster-, network-, application- storage- or database-centric.  The viewpoints are not mutually exclusive.  The authors show how to integrate any and all of them into a coherent and consolidated approach.<br />The approach is based on policies and controls,and workload management and measurement.  The discussion remains focused on service level management throughout the book.  The examples for achieving the approach's objectives are, of course, based on Solaris for the most part.  If you're using a different variant of UNIX you should be able to easily re-map the facilities and utilities cited in the book to those that are available in your own environment.  This also applies to non-UNIX environments.  The concepts and approach apply to NT/W2K/XP, IBM midrange systems and mainframes.  I was surprised to find that IBM's Workload Manager for OS/390 was included in the book.  I came from this environment, so the discussion provided me with familiar territory that caused me to clearly see just how applicable this book is to any environment.<br />If you work with Solaris this book is essential.  If you work with other operating systems still buy this outstanding bookfor the concepts and approach.	2002-03-21
US	46194801	R231SR6FW3V79U	1890154261	915509301	Cell Phone Handbook, Second Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Technology made simple and fun	Although you don't need to know how your cell phone works any more than you need to know how an internal combustion engine works in order to drive a car, it does help when it comes time to select a phone and service.  This book will give you essential information for selecting the phone and service plan that's right for you. It does so in clear language, explaining technical details in a way that is not only understandable, but is actually fun to read.  The author has a thorough knowledge of the industry and a gift for writing. That alone makes this book invaluable. <br />I appreciated the way that phone features and accessories were clearly explained.  More importantly, I like the way Ms. Stetz navigates you through the confusing maze of service plans and options, which cuts through the confusion and makes you a more informed consumer.  This is especially important when it comes to selecting a provided based on their technology.  While the average consumer may thing that terms like GSM, TDMA and CDMA are not important, I can assure you from personal experience that they are.  It also is important to know whether or not the provider you're considering has an all digital network or also has a mix of the older cellular technologies and digital because the ones with the old and new are less likely to impost roaming charges if you are in an area where digital service is unavailable and you have a phone that will switch modes.  The providers that have only the newer digital technology will likely impose roaming charges if you go off their network, despite the advertising claims of for &quot;anywhere&quot; and &quot;one rate&quot;.  Armed with the information in this book you'll understand the fine print and can make informed decisions when selecting a provider (of understanding the costs of switching to a new provider). <br />If you're the type of person who is curious about how things work, then you're in for a treat because the book digs into details.  Like the parts about phones, features and options, and service plans, the book sorts out the complexities and clearly explains them.  You need not have a technical background (or even a technical mindset) to understand the book.  I personally enjoyed learning about how the networks operate and what happens behind the scenes.	2002-03-21
US	46194801	REHN5HYMQJ5F8	1890154466	854832902	The Cell Phone Buyer's Guide: Choosing Your Wireless Phone with Confidence	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An investment in sanity	This book is not about cell phones, but something far more confusing that those marvels of technology. It's about the services provided by competing providers, and how to choose the one that's best for you.  What I like about this pocket-sized book is that it's like having a consultant who understands the ongoing struggle between service providers who are trying to sell you something, and the confused consumer who is trying to make sense of the dizzying array of offering - most of which contain misleading ads and fine print.  Most importantly, though, it leads you through the process of selecting a provider and service plan that meets your needs and is best suited to your lifestyle.<br />Highlights of this book include: simple, straightforward structure and text boxes of pointers and checklists on practically every page, the fact that the author anticipates every conceivable question you may have (and answers many that you wouldn't think to ask), and isolation of the important issues and considerations for selecting the right service plan.<br />Although this book isn't really about phones, the equipment is covered in a succinct manner, including features, accessories and safety tips. I especially liked the glossary, which defines terms ranging from access fee to W-CDMA.  Many of the terms are technical, and many are familiar to anyone who has tried to make sense of their monthly bill (interconnect fees, local calling area, roaming charges).<br />If you're shopping for a cell phone do yourself a favor and buy this book before you lock yourself into a service provider and plan.  It's an investment that will pay big dividends in both sanity and real money savings.	2002-03-21
US	46194801	R3O56YBENNFMO9	0201573172	773584708	Information Technology: The Management Challenge	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Essential to seeing the big picture	The eleven chapters in this 199-page book gives a roadmap for aligning business and IT, and for effectively delivering value.  As such this book should be on the book shelf or reading list for anyone who is involved in IT management or consulting.<br />Chapter 1 opens with IT as it relates to the global business environment.  Much has been said about the global nature of the connected world, but views provided by two essays, reinforced with a case study and capped off with an action checklist sums up the key issues.<br />The book uses the same discussion-reinforcing case study-action checklist structure in every chapter.  I like this approach because it has enabled the author to provide the key issues in succinct terms, demonstrate those issues in action, then give a structure from which you can develop your own plans. I also like the fact that management views written by other writers who are experts in their fields are included in many of the chapters.<br />Each chapter addresses a specific and important aspect of IT management, and each builds upon the preceding chapter.  The sequence is: frameworks for thinking about business and IT (especially solid chapter because it gives a point of reference for the rest of the book), delivering information, IT for competitive advantage (another excellent chapter!) and managing the development of an IT strategy.  Although the book is not divided into sections, the preceding chapters is a foundation for what's to come.  The next two chapters cover analyzing IT investments and impact of IT on an organization.  These set the stage for the two that follow: implementing the IT strategy and the business manager's role in development.  The book concludes with two chapters that cover major trends in IT (this chapter is still valid despite the fact that the book was written in 1999) and management concerns for the future.<br />The book is well written and thought-provoking.  I got through it in a weekend, then spent weeks thinking about much of what was presented, and frequently referred back to key chapters.  The action checklists are probably the most valuable parts of the book and are carefully crafted to make you think about key issues as they relate to your organization.about much of what was presented, and frequently referred back to key chapters.  The action checklists are probably the most valuable parts of the book and are carefully crafted to make you think about key issues as they relate to your organization.	2002-03-19
US	46194801	RP9IE2QMTZU3N	020176735X	761822141	Securing Business Information: Strategies to Protect the Enterprise and Its Network	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Cookbook approach that makes a complex task manageable	Of all the security books I've read this one stands out as the best for two reasons: (1) it lays out what is needed and the steps to take to develop an enterprise security policy in a clear, logical sequence, and (2) there no gaps in the proposed process.  Indeed, it appears that the authors had 'due diligence' as their foremost principle when they wrote this book.  In addition their experience is evident by the way they approach the subject and tie it together.<br />The approach is straightforward: initiate, assess, gather requirements, perform a gap analysis, develop a baseline and implement. What makes the approach unique is the 'divide and conquer technique that partitions the business into security domains.  This has benefits beyond decomposing the complexities of enterprise security into manageable pieces - it can also be linked into enterprise problem management and business continuity planning processes because you're forced to examine your resources and systems, and to prioritize them according to their criticality.  I also liked the discussion of policies, which discussed the merits of identity-based and role-based approaches, and included excellent advice on policy auditing.  One strong point about this section was the treatment of finding documented *and* undocumented policies.  This material is applicable to anyone who is involved in policies and procedures development, regardless of whether or not it's related to security. I also especially liked the chapter on trust modeling.  This is one area where I learned much from the book. <br />I've only touched upon key elements of this book. A review of the table of contents will reveal that it's complete and filled with case studies and important discussions of technologies that can be employed to create an effective enterprise security posture.  This book is obviously applicable to security specialists, but is also useful to business continuity planners, service delivery practitioners and service providers.It is, to date, the best book on security from among the 20 I've read, that I've come across.  It's also a complete recipe for a successful development and implementation of enterprise security policies, processes and procedures.	2002-03-19
US	46194801	RMKMFQWDW7ZTF	0130473936	9450892	Enterprise Data Center Design and Methodology	Books	5	47	48	N	N	Hard to find information that is clearly presented	There is a large gap between IT data center operations and facilities management professionals. This book bridges that gap, at least on the IT side, by clearly explaining the issues and factors that need to be addressed for effective management of a data center that complies with local codes and regulations.  Most IT professionals are unaware of the regulatory requirements with which a data center must comply - unless they've been shut down by a city inspector at which point the concept of reliability, availability and support becomes moot.  This book provides a good education about this obscure topic, as well as everything else that a data center operations manager should know in order to do his or her job.  This doesn't shift responsibilities away from facilities managers, but does give IT and facilities common ground and a shared understanding of each domains roles and responsibilities.  Here's an example of why this is necessary:  systems that need to be brought into production usually require platforms, storage and network connections.  These consume power, environmental system capacity and require space, all of which are finite and all of which are governed by building, fire and safety codes.  Many organizations order equipment first, then notify facilities, when the right way is to jointly plan and manage data center growth. This book provides the basis for doing this, and if followed by both IT and facilities, will ensure smooth and uninterrupted operations and proactive physical capacity management. <br />The book starts with data center design philosophy, giving the top ten design guidelines.  This is followed with detailed design criteria that covers project issues, insurance and local building codes.  While these are of more concern to facilities managers IT needs to be aware of their impact.  It also discusses availability profiles, which does directly concern IT. Chapter 3 is also of direct interest to IT because it discusses physical and logical Security, facilities system monitoring and planning for expansion.  In fact, this chapter is where IT and facilities professionals intersect.<br />Chapters 4 through 8 are of more interest to facilities professionals because the topics cover details such as physical capacities and resources, site selection and construction details, implementing raised floors, power distribution and HVAC.  Despite the slant towards facilities, reading through these chapters will give IT data center managers insights into the challenges faced by facilities, and will offer a lot of information that can be used to develop safety plans and general housekeeping procedures.  <br />The next chapters (9 through 12) are of interest to both IT and facilities, and cover network cabling infrastructure, shipping, receiving, and staging, hazards and environmental contaminants, codes and construction. These are areas in which IT and facilities need to closely collaborate.<br />This is the first book that covers data center facilities in a manner that IT professionals will find readable and understandable.  It usually takes years of experience and reading facilities-focused materials of which only a fraction is applicable to gain the knowledge that the author provides.	2002-03-19
US	46194801	R39KP9K9TI4198	013087678X	417682520	IT Systems Management: Designing, Implementing, and Managing World-Class Infrastructures	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Amazingly complete and packed with knowledge	Mr. Schiesser has managed to capture all of the essential service delivery processes in a single book, and he covers each of these topics with a thoroughness that will give you a foundation to implement world-class system management.<br />He starts out with three chapters that cover the history of system management and had it has evolved into an important discipline that is currently challenged by issues that were not foreseeable when I started in the industry 25 years ago.  Today systems are interconnected into complex supply chains and extend onto the desktops of home and business users who are not known to the managers of the systems. Although these chapters can be skipped, they do provide context for the details that come in later chapters.  In fact, each topic in the book is introduced at a basic level, then built upon in layer upon layer of detail.  This makes learning the complex discipline of system management easy to someone new to IT, and exposes details that even seasoned veterans may not have encountered.  <br />The book's best feature is that covers each of the key processes (support and problem management, availability, performance tuning and capacity planning, change control and configuration management), and ties them to related areas (security, disaster recovery, facilities management, and infrastructure management areas for storage and networks). <br />Although the book is not sequenced in the key process and related areas in the order I've listed, a pattern emerges as each topic is covered.  The glue that ties all of these together is the way the author develops a strategy for organizing for systems management, including staffing considerations, and the integration of the processes at the end of the book.  I especially like the way tactical and strategic processes are identified and how the relationships are developed.<br />As an IT operations management specialist with extensive experience I appreciate the way the book has accurately captured theessence of systems management.  As a consultant I found the checklists and worksheets provided in the book to be invaluable.  This book represents an important contribution to the overlooked body of knowledge of systems management and IT operations, and should be on the bookshelf of every IT manager or service delivery specialist who takes their job seriously. It should be carefully read by those in the dot com and ASP industries because the processes described in this book, if implemented, will differentiate your services and give you a significant competitive advantage.	2002-03-18
US	46194801	R3F6821Y1OD3J1	1929065000	712964339	Establishing a System of Policies and Procedures	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Solid, straightforward and effective	This is my third book by Mr. Page and it does not disappoint. I started with his Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures, which is best suited for advanced policy and procedures developers in quality environments, and followed with his 7 Steps to Better Written Policies and Procedures.  The latter book is better suited as a training manual or quick reference guide.<br />This book, however, is a straightforward &quot;how to&quot; book, and it gives procedures for writing policies and procedures that are effective and clear.  What I like about this book is Mr. Page stays focused on the basics, and sorts out the key issues.  If you've never written policies and/or procedures this book will step you through the process with no fluff.  That doesn't mean the book is terse.  On the contrary, the book explains in necessary detail how to develop policies and procedures that reflect best practices.  Having read all of Mr. Page's books, and also having an extensive background in policy and procedure development, I can attest that the approach is mature and will assure success if followed.<br />As with other reviewers I've noticed a few typos and convoluted sentences.  However, these did not detract from the book's value because they did not change the context of the book's content or make it difficult to follow.  If you need to write policies and/or procedures and have never done it before get this book and follow it.  You'll be impressed with the results using the approach, and you'll also benefit from Mr. Page's extensive knowledge of the subject by avoiding false starts, as well as producing documents that are solid and clearly written.	2002-02-23
US	46194801	R2WSYH5QC22A22	0471085782	687916034	Strategies for Web Hosting and Managed Services	Books	5	11	13	N	N	For Customers and Providers	Although the book's description states that it is intended for web hosting customers I found it to be invaluable for both customers and providers.<br />The first two chapters are clearly intended for hosting and services customers. They form an executive summary of what is to follow.  Chapters 3 though 6 discuss various hosting and service options,  While these, too, are written for prospective services customers I hope service providers will also take the time to read Mr. Kaye's assessment of service offerings.  Where customers will get an understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of each alternative, service providers will see themselves in a mirror.  The providers that want to rise to the top will spot opportunities to differentiate their services.<br />In a similar manner, the chapters on outsourcing, risk management and SLAs are intended for customers.  However, service providers will gain much from reading these chapters because Mr. Kaye points out the many shortcomings in ISP/MSP services and business practices.  Aggressive service providers will address those issues to attain competitive advantage.  Customers who read these chapters, on the other hand, will have powerful negotiating advantages.<br />While I am not sure that the ten chapters on technologies and tools fit within the book's theme I learned a lot from them.  I'm an IT consultant, but my primary skills and knowledge are IT operations, service level management and process improvement.  The information in the final ten chapters got me quickly up to speed in the web technical infrastructure and related tools, but I doubt that the business decision makers, to whom the first part of this book caters, will find them interesting.<br />Overall this book is a valuable resource to both customers and providers.  The strongest part in my opinion addresses service level agreements and vendor management.  It stands out for sorting out the complex array of outsourcing and service alternatives, thus supporting sound business decisions.  The web site and discussion forum that supports this book (the URL is provided in the book) increase the value because the material will never be out of date and you can pose questions directly to the author.	2002-02-21
US	46194801	R2MWE24USALKYE	1571250484	800126438	Get the Point : How to Write Policies, Procedures, and Tasks for Help Desks and Customer Support Centers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nicely written and to the point	At 51 pages this book is a highly focused, but short, guide.  The book itself provides a process for writing help desk policies, procedures and tasks.  It starts out in chapter 1 by explaining why clearly written guidance documentation is important, then proceeds to give six steps to developing the documentation.<br />The first is to know and understand your work environment, followed by a brief list of helpful writing hints.  Next are definitions of policy, procedure and task (the distinction between the latter two is often blurred in the real world, so this section, short as it is, is valuable).  The final three steps consist of planning and writing (1) policies, (2) procedures and (3) tasks.  The approach is straightforward, but if you've never done this before you'll find the book both helpful and well worth the price.<br />What I most like is the book stays focused and is clearly written.  The author sticks with the basics and does not include confusing fluff or digress from the topic.  If you manage help desks this pamphlet-sized book will get you quickly started in the important job of writing consistent policies, procedures and tasks.	2002-02-21
US	46194801	RCVVGN4R1NPF7	1893115585	59941958	Architecting Web Services	Books	5	43	51	N	N	Clear, structured and coherent	This well written book starts with a coherent definition of what web service are and how they fit within the framework of a coherent architecture. I like the way the author uses terminology to which I can relate to explain the inner workings of services.  I am intimately familiar with processes, procedure calls and the such, so the examples and illustrations used to describe the models were crystal clear.  I also liked the layered approach to architecture, which is the hallmark of a well-thought out design; as well as the distinction between physical and logical design. In addition, the analogies made using CORBA, for example, to underscore the fact that a well designed architecture is a structured collection of services, developed as discrete components or objects, reinforces the notion of reusability and highlights the importance taking a component-based software engineering approach to web services architecture.<br />The chapters devoted to XML (technical primer and using XML) were clear explanations of this important facet of web architecture.  If you are coming from a legacy background or are attempting to web-enable systems in support of enterprise application integration, these two chapters will get you quickly up-to-speed.  Chapter 5, Web Services Models, is the heart of this book and should be carefully read by architects and the design team; chapter 7, Building a Web Services Workflow, is essential reading for functional analysts, the creative and technical members of the design team, and QA.  A nice touch is how the author used a hotel reservation system as an example to marry theory with a realistic web-based application.<br />As a non-developer I thought the way the author kept the level of abstraction above actual code (although example code is provided) and made examples independent of any particular development environment was a masterful way of describing the process of architecture without getting bogged down into details that have more to do withcoding than design or seeing the grand scheme.  Too many authors are developers at heart and cannot resist details that lose the attention of the intended audience - architects in the case of this book. He wisely left out the gory details associated with the build phase of a web project, and also showed wisdom by not attempting to get lost in scalability, performance or other issues that would merit another book to cover.  As such this book is focused, and provides a structured and coherent framework for component-based software engineering approach to web architecture.  If you or your team is not committed to doing up-front design and architecture you may not find this book very useful.  However, if you want to see how employing sound architectural principles to web systems design can be done, or are working in a mature development environment, you will find this book well written and the approach consistent with best practices in software engineering and architecture.	2001-12-18
US	46194801	R2EAA6PBMS46J5	0136365647	812082560	Software Release Methodology	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Bridges and Integrates Development and Production	This book integrates SCM and application delivery/service delivery promotion and release processes in a single book.  The highlights include: (1) clear descriptions of software configuration management processes and strategies, (2) exit criteria for release of software into production, and the macro view of all of the relationships between and among development, QA and production.<br />Chapters I particularly like include 5, Defect tracking, which can be used as the basis for an integrated issue management system specification; 6 and 7, modularized system integration and change control, which ties together the processes necessary to interface development and production - two different aspects of IT that seem to be on different planets, and 8, release classifications and numbering, which provides a sane and logical numbering strategy.<br />As a 25+ year veteran IT professional I learned much from this book, and found the material equally suitable for IT professionals across the full spectrum of skill and experience levels. This is a one of a kind book that bridges development and production, and will give practitioners in both organizations a common vision and insights into the challenges and requirements that are unique to each group.	2001-12-17
US	46194801	R2GMFQYDTMQQYU	9627762695	846120755	The Mobile Internet: How Japan Dialled up and the West Disconnected	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Essential for understanding mobile usability &amp; requirements	My motive for reading this book was to check my understanding of the issues and factors involved with mobile communications for PDAs and digital phones. As a recent member of a product development project for extending SAP R/3 and PeopleSoft to mobile phones and PalmOS PDAs I thought I had a grasp of the technology and associated issues.  How wrong I was.  This book provided me with a basic framework that would have proven invaluable during my project, and some key insights about mobile internet devices as opposed to landline-based devices.<br />The framework uses primary and secondary feedback loops between and among services to be offered, user populations, content, device type, business models and portals and search engines.  This framework allows an analyst (or marketing specialist) to classify the elements based on ranges (simple to complex, single-to-multifunctional, etc.) and to examine cause and effect, and significance.<br />There are many levels to this book and more than one audience.  My comments are from the viewpoint of an IT consultant whose goals are to understand mobile internet requirements, how content can be effectively displayed on small screens and the future of mobile computing with phones and PDAs.  This book will also prove invaluable to marketing specialists, business strategists and infrastructure capacity management folks; however, none of these areas are covered in this review.  Within this context I gleaned the following knowledge and insights from this book:  (1) attempting to based mobile services on scaled down landline internet services is a mistake because the devices for each are vastly different, (2) a common mistake is to start with complex services and systems - the wild success of Japan is based on starting simple, and the abysmal failure of the US and Europe is based on providers attempting the opposite. Both of these basic principles are directly tied to the trade-offs between reach (services available to a mobile device have greater reach than a landline device) and richness (limitations of a mobile display restricts the 'glitz' that can be presented on that display). The foregoing should be carefully studied by anyone who is concerned with usability, and is also must reading for content developers and architects.  In addition, the research performed by the author provides some insights about what people likely to embrace mobile internet access seek.  There are some surprises here because two of the most popular consumers of bandwidth are downloading screen savers and ring tones.  Another surprise is the usage patterns, which are typically restricted to 10-minute spurts, and the difference between mobile and fixed internet peak use patterns.  All of the facts presented are backed with statistics and cited references.  The author's research methods will prove interesting to requirements analysts and marketing analysts.<br />The book ends with an objective view of what Japan is doing right and what the rest of the world is doing wrong with respect to mobile internet usage, which is balanced by weaknesses and threats to Japan's early success and opportunities available to the US and Europe for cashing in on the mobile internet.  Even if you have no specific learning objectives this book makes for an interesting read and would make an excellent text for a college course in marketing.	2001-12-17
US	46194801	R3JYD0SVVA27B5	0201616475	323582919	Cryptography Decrypted	Books	5	31	32	N	N	The best introductory book bar none	This book clearly explains the foundation of cryptography, numbers, and the techniques that have emerged to provide modern security technologies.  The book starts with Part I,  that sets the context by introducing terms and the basics, including ciphers, data encryption standard (DES) and secret keys.  The authors did a remarkable job by making complex concepts easy to understand. The next two parts go into more detail about public keys and digital certificates.  While these are relatively simple to learn on the surface, the details have always eluded me until I read this book because more papers and books on the subject get too deep into details too fast and assume knowledge of advanced math on the part of the reader.  Not so this book - the authors make it easy through clear writing, illustrations that illuminate the textual descriptions and a knack for explaining the complex in simple and easily digestible chunks.<br />I especially liked Part IV, which covers secure electronic commerce because it covered the full spectrum of technologies and the information is immediately useful to all IT and security professionals.  Like in the first three parts of this book I came away with a complete understanding of how everything works.<br />This book epitomizes clear writing.  Moreover, it is simply amazing how much knowledge can be relatively painlessly gained from reading this book.  Although I am sure the authors intended to make the inner workings of cryptography accessible to non-security professionals (which they unquestionably accomplished), they also set a standard of excellence in technical writing by producing a book that is, in my opinion, near perfect in its ability to seamlessly use lively prose and well thought out illustrations to convey highly technical information.  If you need to learn cryptography but are challenged by the math and the impenetratable writing of other books on the subject, start with this one.	2001-12-17
US	46194801	R2NBF7BQNN83YC	020173723X	356159770	The CERT Guide to System and Network Security Practices	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Methodical approach to security and incident response	The five step approach to securing and managing systems and assets that this book provides is a blueprint for a comprehensive and effective security program<br />What I found especially valuable is the fact that the complex task of developing, implementing and managing an effective security program is clearly outlined in this book.  I also like the fact that the security exposures and techniques for dealing with them are based on CERT/CC research and experience - there is no theory here.  As such, if you follow the five-step approach and augment this with constant vigilence you will have the assurance that at least 80% of potential threats are dealt with.  The remaining 20% of the threats are constantly emerging as the war between you and the 'bad guys' unfolds, but the  URLs to CERT/CC and other security-related sites provided in this book are resources that will allow you to remain abreast of these emergent threats.<br />Probably the most valuable aspect of this book is the incident response process, which can serve as the framework for damage control, elements of business continuity planning, and guidelines for immediate and methodical response to breaches.  In my opinion this book is an essential resource for security officers and IT security personnel and the foundation of a well planned defensive security posture.	2001-12-15
US	46194801	R2GQ14OCNTUGBE	0471135038	530790072	Getting Started in Project Management	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Project management for the rest of us	This book's value is that it gives a systematic, clear approach to planning and managing that 80% of projects that are characterized as simple.  Such projects include system roll-outs, simple construction, office moves and small integration projects.  The book's 14 chapters are: (1) basics, which set the context of the authors' method called CORE [Collaborative-Open architecture-Results oriented-Easy to use), (2)initiating the project, (3) leading the project team, (4) project kick-off, (5) planning and scope, (6) organizing the project, (7) assessing risk, (8) scheduling, (9)budgeting, (10) assembling the project plan, (11) team-based tools), (12) executing the plan, (13) closing out the project and (14) summing up.<br />The CORE approach emphasizes planning, deliverables and customer acceptance criteria.  This approach is closely aligned to the UK standard for project management called PRINCE2.  Among the highlights of this book are: (1) integration of work breakdown structures (WBS) and organization breakdown structures (OBS) in such a manner that a WBS and OBS can be input into common scheduling tools, such as MS Project.  One way the authors accomplish this is by using task IDs as the key instead of normal WBS code and grouping tasks according to their position on a 2-level tree. Another highlight is the numerous checklists and forms examples that fill the pages of this 263-page book.  I personally found the appendices to be the most valuable aspect of this book. Appendix A is a project leadership skills self-assessment, B is a brief discussion of thinking styles, C is a sample team contract and D, in my opinion the best part of the book, is a clearly written description of the Martin-Tate Problem Solving Methodology that uses affinity diagrams, decision matrices and consensus building techniques to identify, organize, analyze and choose  ideas and solutions.  This methodology bridges technical aspects of project management and the people-related issues that aPM must deal with, within the project team and among the many project stakeholders.  The final appendix, E, project management self assessment should have been combined with Appendix A, but this is not a shortcoming.<br />If you are new to project management and expect to be tasked with managing relatively simple projects this book is the best starting point I've found.  If you're a seasoned project manager this book will show you a few highly useful techniques that you might not otherwise encounter, especially the Martin-Tate Problem Solving Methodology.  If you will be managing both complex and simple projects I still recommend this book, but also urge you to read Visualizing Project Management, which will add skills such as advanced WBS development, activity optimization and earned value project management to your skill set.	2001-12-15
US	46194801	REKVD2KVGCO7Y	0201709074	45394866	IT Architectures and Middleware: Strategies for Building Large, Integrated Systems	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Overview that clearly defines middleware	The value of this book can be distilled into a succinct sentence:  it describes middleware and how it's used as an architectural foundation, and provides guidance for when to use transaction-oriented and message-oriented solutions.  While this sounds simplistic, consider how architects go about designing systems.  They think in terms of their background and experience.  An architect who comes from a data-intensive environment is apt to use a transaction monitor as a component of a solution instead of a message queuing manager that may be more appropriate.  This book provides architects with a high-level view of middleware and how to select the most appropiate solution for a given design problem.<br />What I especially like about the book is the clear writing and well designed illustrations that combine to convey basic concepts and subtle nuances of transaction- and message-oriented middleware. If you are seeking low-level details necessary for the detailed design or build phases of a project this book will disappoint.  However, if you are seeking clear and unbiased information on the strengths and weaknesses of various middleware solutions and how they serve as the foundation of distributed systems this book will almost certainly give you insights and knowledge that you can immediately put to use.  <br />This book is a perfect complement to B2B Application Integration by David S. Linthicum, which goes into additional technical detail and covers broader issues of architecture with respect to heterogenous [legacy] system integration.  Regardless of your technical environment, however, IT Architectures and Middleware is worthwhile for new and seasoned architects and IT managers.	2001-12-15
US	46194801	R21ZN502NFMA7A	0201657821	182928265	Web Content Management: A Collaborative Approach	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Much needed book on an important subject	This book is an essential resource for anyone who manages web sites of any size or complexity.  I purchased this book to research current practices in content management thinking it was applicable only to large sites. I found out that the information was as useful for small sites, including my modest personal site with approximately 20 pages and a few dozen download files.<br />The book starts out with two parts devoted to context and basic mechanics of content management: Part I is a single chapter that discusses motivation for content management, and Part II consists of 7 chapters covering concepts and principles.  <br />While Part I is self-evident, Part II is a thorough look at all facets of content management from the definition of an asset through managing multiple web initiatives.  Some highlights of Part II include: (1) clear definition of versioning and control mechanisms (in principle they are the same as those used in software configuration management for source code), (2)best practices for collaboration, which includes a well-defined cycle of submit-compare-update-merge and publish process, version snapshots and test cycles, (3)workflow processes that cover people, project, process and business factors,  and (4) deploying content, which mirrors to a large degree IT practices for releasing code changes into production. I especially liked the way this aligns to IT operations best practices by treating the process in the same manner as a mature change control process, including roll-back procedures.  Also valuable about this Part of the book is the frequent inclusion of checklists.<br />Part III covers design and implementation of content management processes and tools.  Here is where workflow, template system and deployment design is elevated from the discussion of concepts and principles in the preceding section into a working system.  This part of the book also discusses future trends in content management.  Appendices are in Part IV.  Each is as valuable as the body of the book, but I particularly liked Appendix B-Workflow Design for Formal Hand Off Between Groups,  and Appendix D-Basic Process Steps of a Best-Practice Content Management Process. <br />This book addresses an important subject because managing content on even a small site is no small task.  The authors provide a straightforward method, complete with case studies and checklists, to get a handle on what is probably the most difficult aspect of web site management.  The writing is clear and the book is exceptionally well illustrated.  It is also completely consistent with traditional IT and software engineering practices for change control and software configuration management.	2001-10-04
US	46194801	R1G4M5DW0P6JDQ	007213237X	534612983	Building & Managing A World Class IT Help Desk	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent for desktop support help desk operations	This is an excellent beginner's book for implementing and/or managing help desk operations that are focused on desktop support and infrastructure issue management.<br />Part I thoroughly explains the basics, including concepts, budgeting, and a business case for implementing a help desk.  Part II covers the essentials of people, processes and tools.  It also covers how to go about defining requirements and setting goals.  I like the way the author steps you through the &quot;As-Is&quot; and &quot;To-Be&quot; planning because this is the foundation from which the help desk will be aligned to business and user requirements within a budget and the context of service level objectives. This part is process-oriented (as it should be) and gets you thinking in those terms.<br />For readers who already staff or manage a help desk Part III will be especially valuable. Here the author discusses the realities of managing your staff, retaining them in a relatively sane state and ensuring that they have training opportunities.  What I like, though, is the additional processes that are introduced, including change management, service level agreements and metrics.  In fact, the chapter on metrics is excellent and hits all of the key points.<br />Part IV is devoted to fixing existing help desk operations and is worth the price of the book if you are managing an operation that seems to forever be behind the power curve. Common causes of complaints are addressed in a methodical manner, which will provide you with the basis of a &quot;get well&quot; plan.  If you are starting up a help desk this part of the book will show you pitfalls to avoid as your operation matures.  Part V takes the people-process-tools discussed earlier into a greater amount of detail.  Each topic is thoroughly covered and each provides excellent advice for increasing the effectiveness of your help desk.<br />The appendices are also valuable.  Appendix A is a set of sample job descriptions and Appendix B is a sample service level agreement (this sample covers all of the key elements of a good SLA).<br />Although I found this book to be basic I also thought it is complete for desktop support and infrastructure-oriented help desks.  For managed support operations where the help desk functions as an issue broker I prefer IT Problem Management by Gary S. Walker and/or Delivering World-Class Technical Support by Lori Laub et al, both of which are most applicable to enterprise application support.  If you are starting a help desk or are managing one that is focused on desktop and infrastructure support this book will serve you well.	2001-10-04
US	46194801	R1HR26PE5A1A58	0240804430	860242065	Developing Effective Websites: A Project Manager's Guide	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Straightforward; sticks with sound PM principles	If you are managing small-to-medium web projects, or are managing vendors who are implementing a small-to-medium site, this is an ideal book.  What I like about this book is that it sticks to the basics and doesn't pretend to be a &quot;silver bullet&quot; or &quot;killer methodology&quot;.  <br />What it does do is step you through web site development, starting with the most important part:  requirements, and from there through the development and management of a project plan.  Here is where the book shines because the project planning starts with a work breakdown structure (WBS), which is essential to a viable project plan. Only after the WBS has been developed does the author cover scheduling. This is a refreshing change from other &quot;project management&quot; books that [erroneously] jump right into scheduling.  Another strong point is the author covers cost estimation in a thorough manner.<br />This book is also complete from a workflow perspective in that roles and responsibilities of the project team are defined, and all project milestones are covered, including testing and maintenance, which are not always covered in web project books in any great detail. I especially like the way the author addresses contractor/customer relationships.  If you are reading this as either a customer or a consultant this part of the book will prove valuable for advice and insights.  Another key point that I like is the iterative development approach taken.  This reflects the way most web projects proceed, although some books portray such projects as a linear waterfall process that leads to false project assumptions.  <br />This book and &quot;Web Redesign: Workflow That Works&quot; by Kelly Goto and Emily Cotler complement one another.  I recommend getting both if your budget allows it.  If you are faced with a large-scale web project this book may not fit your needs as well as &quot;Web Project Management: Delivering Successful Commercial Web Sites&quot; by Ashley Friedlein.  Regardless, this book is well written and is a refreshing change from many I've read because it's based on tried and true project management principles that have been closely integrated into the workflow of website development.	2001-10-04
US	46194801	R1V5MAD5KMN45Z	0201710064	903419287	e-Business Readiness: A Customer-Focused Framework (Addison-Wesley Information Technology Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Provides a complete readiness assessment framework	The heart of this book is a readiness framework that blends assessment, strategy and tactics and project planning. The focus is on business and customer value.<br />I like the way the book starts, with a look at the big picture, defining your goals, and complete look at all stakeholders.  The beginning also introduces e-business models, the readiness framework itself and a quick sanity check to test your readiness.<br />This is followed by a more detailed look at the &quot;eBiz Readiness! Framework&quot; and its major parts: stakeholders, components and enablers.  Also addressed are knowledge management, trust and technology, all of which are interwoven into the fabric of e-business.  I especially liked the framework metrics, which include benchmarking, customer and business metrics, and how to manage the metrics as indicators.<BR> <BR>What makes this book practical is the map given to applying the framework for implementation of e-business processes and systems, and once implemented, how to effectively manage using an evaluation framework.  The evaluation framework covers both small- and big-business perspectives in the form of stakeholder assessments.  Also addressed in detail are trust services (perhaps the cornerstone of e-business), security, and related issues.            <br />Another aspect of this book that I liked very much is the coverage of the e-business stakeholder model and governance, which spans topics such as globalization, socioeconomics and your defined market.  This sets the book apart from those that seem to focus on technology without a regard for the bigger picture.<br />This book is an invaluable resource to both business planers and IT because it balances the business and technical issues, both of which are addressed, in assessing e-business readiness.	2001-10-01
US	46194801	R1YZZA16CIKY0S	0201758202	924723758	Improving Software Organizations: From Principles to Practice	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Finally - a practical roadmap to SPI	This book departs from all others that I have read on SPI by tossing the theory and giving, instead, a practical roadmap for implementing SPI. <br />The theme is learning, and it is manifested on a number of levels in this book, foremost of which is that fact that the information provided is based on real life experience in four companies.  The book is divided into the following five sections:<br />I. LEARNING TO IMPROVE (covers learning SPI in practice and mapping SPI ideas and practices).<BR>II. LEARNING FROM EXPERIENCE (discusses the correct way to approach SPI based on documented experience and studies of successful implementation, and approaches that do not work - sort of like anti-patterns).<BR>III. INITIATING LEARNING (learning From assessments, how to use problem reports to improve products, and a framwork for selecting an assessment strategy).<BR>IV. ORGANIZING FOR LEARNING (strategies for organizational learning in SPI).<BR>V. TECHNIQUES FOR LEARNING TO IMPROVE (framework for implementing SPI, managing risk during SPI implementation, metrics implementation principles and better requirements.<br />Among the things I like most are: (1) The recognition that learning is the key to SPI.  This is an insight that is sometimes lost, especially when too many organizations focus on tools, passing an assessment and other issues instead of the reason for SPI in the first place. (2) Lessons learned from four major companies. Value: Shows (a) it can be done, (b) it's not easy, and (c) mistakes to avoid. (3) No hype.  There is no preaching, glowing promises or the like here.<br />If your organization is pursuing SPI or is already engaged in it, this book will save you considerable aggravation, show common pitfalls to avoid, and focus you on the essence of SPI.	2001-10-01
US	46194801	R2ADLLHZZWR51Y	1929065248	389717045	7 Steps to Better Written Policies and Procedures	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another winner from Steve Page	Writing policies and procedures is challenging because if they are unclear they will not be followed.  As someone who does this for clients I can attest that the writing format that the author Stephen Page suggests is the key to writing quality documents.  The template for the 7 writing elements described in this book is an essential means of providing readers with a clear understanding of the policies and procedures.<br />The book is divided into 3 parts:<BR>Part 1 discusses the writing format, the writing process, and &quot;Editing Checklist&quot; to improve your writing skills for policies and procedures.  <BR>Part 2 includes the case study that is the focus of the scenarios used for Chapters 4 to 10. Exercises, suggested answers, and explanations of these answers, are included for each of the seven sections of the Writing Format.<BR>Part 3 contains three samples of policies and procedures for references and comparison purposes.<br />In chapters 4 through 10 exercises were given.  I worked these examples through, and compared them with the samples of *good* and *not so good* answers that were in the book. I found that the book contained new ideas that I did not think of.  Of course, there can be different answers, but these are great exercises to practice on to produce Policies and Procedures that will have a consistent and organized format.<BR>   <BR>The writing format is a great template and will provide structure to your documents. This book goes right next to my copy of Steve Page's Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures as a valuable and frequently used  tool.	2001-09-28
US	46194801	R3BAZDU2WM6MMS	0521645689	900127127	Process Patterns: Building Large-Scale Systems Using Object Technology (SIGS: Managing Object Technology)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Solid Foundation for Process Maturity	This book's collection of process patterns is the foundation for best practices in applications delivery, and align to a variety of methodologies, including the Rational Unified Process.  These patterns can also be used as the basis for key process areas for achieving increasing levels of capability maturity or process improvement capability for organizations that use SEI's CMM or ISO/IEC<BR>15504 (SPICE).<br />Chapter 1 assumes no prior knowledge of patterns or object-oriented software processes, and gives a descriptive overview of both.  It also discusses various approaches to software development, which provides a context for how patterns can fit within various approaches, such as serial, iterative, incremental or parallel projects.  It also introduces a process framework called Object-Oriented Software Process (OOPS)and compares this process to other common OO approaches to development.  Although this book is structured for OOSP, the patterns will fit within any framework or methodology. This makes the book valuable to any shop regardless of whether OO or traditional procedural languages and approaches are used.  A highlight of this chapter is the discussion of process maturity that uses SEI's CMM as a baseline.  The information can be realigned to SPICE or Bootstrap as well because there is no firm bias towards the CMM - I suspect the CMM is used because it's well known to U.S. readers.<br />The book is divided into parts after chapter 1, with each part aligned to a life cycle stage and comprised of a collection of chapters that describe patterns that are applicable to the stage.  Each chapter is a pattern and is structured as Initial Context, Solution, Solution Project Tasks, Resulting Context, Process Checklist and What you have learned.  <br />Part I is the INITIATE stage.  Patterns include:  Initiate Phase (how to start the phase itself), Define and Validate Initial Requirements, Define Initial Documents, Justify and Define Infrastructure.  Part II is CONSTRUCT, with patterns for Construct Phase Initiation, Model, Program (development), Generalize and Test in the Small.<br />What I like is the format of the patterns make them easy to read and consistent.  It is easy to tailor them for organizational use, as well as to add more patterns.  It also adds a defined structure to the development process itself, providing a solid basis for documenting key process areas and defining development workflow.  The second book in this series, More Process Patterns, completes the pattern library by addressing test, release and operational aspects of applications and systems.  I read that book last February and feel that both books should be a part of any mature development organization, or organizations that are seeking to improve their processes and capabilities maturity.	2001-09-27
US	46194801	R8DYWR7NJIFOV	0735710627	743903626	Web ReDesign: Workflow that Works	Books	5	66	68	N	N	True to topic &amp; valuable resource	This book is a high-level, phased approach to web design.  The context is the development team's workflow, and all of the key tasks, deliverables and roles that need to be choreographed to successfully develop, implement and maintain a web site.<br />From a project management point of view this book serves as the basis for a work breakdown structure (WBS), and the project sequencing.  I was able to quickly develop a generic project planning template that contained a relatively detailed WBS, project phasing, roles and responsibilities matrix and activity diagram.  These tools were easy to extract from the book because of how well the authors have thought out the key elements of a web project and the development workflow.  <br />Among the things I most like are:  (1) the care that was lavished on the layout and design of this book has resulted in more than mere aesthetics - as I read through it picking out the project elements I found myself inspired by the sheer beauty of the book, and actually felt more creative.  Since I am more disposed towards technical aspects than art I was amazed by the influence the book's design had over me.  It also made it easy to go through the book and find things.  (2)  completeness - while the authors do not go very deep in any one topic, they do cover all of the key points in a thorough manner.  I found no gaps in coverage, and did not see the superficial treatment of the technical topics as a problem.  In fact, this book is ideal for non-technical project managers who need to concern themselves with the project-oriented aspects of a web project.  For the more technical members of a project team there is ample material covering every aspect of the technical approach.  (3)  sequencing - the phases of the project and associated workflow evidences the authors' extensive experience in web development projects.  A lot of thought went into this and I couldn't help but think of the hard lessons learned on prior projects that resulted in sucha refined workflow. (4) expert topics - the insets titled &lt;expert topic&gt; imparted a lot of useful information, making this book all the more valuable.<br />For detailed project planning and deeper look at technical issues I will always recommend Web Project Management by Ashley Friedlein.  However, after reading this wonderful book I am now recommending that this book be read before tackling Mr. Friedlein's book.  I also recommend that this book be provided to all key members of the project team because it shows the big picture and gets everyone pulling in the same direction. In my opinion, this book is an essential read for anyone involved in web projects.	2001-09-27
US	46194801	R3N4JW74CTJYMX	0849308801	619988347	Information Security Risk Analysis	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Superb book - explains the details	This is an excellent introduction to risk analysis in general and a highly effective guide for conducting a security risk analysis.  <br />Of the 281 pages in this book, 156 pages are devoted to the seven chapters comprising the &quot;how to&quot; and case study, with the remaining pages allocated to six highly valuable appendices.<br />Chapter 1, Effective Risk Analysis, starts the book by discussing risk analysis in general, including common approaches, and leads into the author's approach.  The next chapter covers qualitative risk analysis, followed by a chapter on value analysis.  By this point it's clear that the author's philosophy is to capture major risks, cost data and develop impact without getting bogged down in complex methods.  I liked chapter 4, which discusses other qualitative methods, their strengths and weaknesses, which adds context to the heart of this book: Chapter 5, Facilitated Risk Analysis Process.  In a nutshell, this approach involves all stakeholders and spreads the responsibility and accountability for identifying, analyzing and prioritizing risks.  This is as it should be because security should be everyone's job, and the stakeholders (led by subject matter experts) are the best source of authority for making trade-offs and allocating resources to ensure the degree of security that consensus dictates.  Since security is, in part, a function of trade-offs, the Facilitated Analysis Risk Process proposed by the author is an effective and essential process supporting security.  Chapter 6 covers other uses of qualitative risk analysis, and is though-provoking and informative.  The case study in chapter 7 ties together the preceding chapters and concludes the text on risk analysis.<br />The appendices are, in my opinion, invaluable.  Like a previous reviewer I lament the fact that the tables and forms were not included in electronic format, but this is a minor quibble on my part.  Appendix A is a comprehensive, 25-page questionnaire that covers every facet of security risks.  Appendix B contains a reproduction of every form associated with the Facilitated Risk Analysis Process (Scope/Business Process Identification, Action Plan, Final Report, Controls List, Risk List and Controls/Risk Cross-Reference List).  Business Impact Analysis forms are provided in Appendix C, and a sample report is provided in Appendix D.  Threat definitions are provided in Appendix E, and three short papers authored by other experts giving other opinions of risk analysis are the subject of Appendix F.<br />Overall this is a highly focused book that should not be ignored by anyone who is responsible for security, business continuity or disaster recovery planning.  Even if you are more apt to use quantitative methods instead of the qualitative methods proposed by the author, this book is still an important work on security risk analysis.  The appendices alone are worth the price of the book.	2001-09-25
US	46194801	R2J19QBIQW40K5	1880410613	827556648	Tools and Tips for Today's Project Manager	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Indispensable resource	This 238-page book is a combination dictionary and collection of quick tools and tips that every project manager will find useful.<br />There are over 150 entries that are cross-referenced by category and arranged in an easy-to-find alphabetical listing.  What I like is the step-by-step procedures for using the tools, which are augmented by usage tips and examples.  Another feature is the inclusion of obscure or archaic terms that you are sometimes hit with at meetings.  The next time someone hurls the term &quot;slip chart&quot; at you, you won't be scratching your head wondering what they're talking about (and you can hurl back that since you're using earned value slip charts are inappropriate!)<br />If you are a professional project manager this book is both a reference and tool.  Highly recommended.	2001-09-23
US	46194801	RIC05YAVUU89	0941049019	194417787	Resource Life Cycle Analysis: A Business Modeling Technique for Is Planning	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unique approach to project and strategic planning	Resource life cycle analysis is an interesting technique that has changed my view of both project management and strategic planning.  The essence of this approach is the integration of resources, value chains, and precedence as key factors in information systems planning.  Although this book is described as an IS modeling technique, the basic concepts can be used outside of IS, making the approach more universal than I believe the authors intended.<br />The key elements of the approach are (1) Resources - the view taken by the authors is businesses are a collection of resources.  This differs from most approaches that view businesses as a inter-related processes and functions.  Because the unit of composition for businesses is a resource (or asset), each are viewed within the context of a life cycle.  This is a natural way of looking at assets, and this view fosters systematic management of business resources. Resources can be human, software, time, money, etc. (2) Value chains - this is the element that does address business processes and functions because it treats them as value chains.  This is not an uncommon way of viewing processes and functions, but combining this view with the resource view is.  (3) Precedence - this element adds sequence to the functions in *support* of resources. <br />From the foregoing there is a clear connection between resource life cycle analysis and project management, especially with respect to resource and precedence elements.  From a strategic planning point of view, there is also a direct connection between value chains and processes, both of which are determining factors for systems to be implemented in support of business processes.  These connections highlight the value of resource life cycle analysis as a methodology, and underscore its value as a tool that can be &quot;bolted on&quot; to your existing project management and/or planning methodologies.<br />I have been deeply influenced by this approach and have incorporated it into the way I approach requirements analysis and project planning. If you are a consultant, IT professional or operational manager of a business unit this book will provide you with some deep skills and a new way of approaching analysis.	2001-09-23
US	46194801	R3BIX8LNQHHQUR	0471169161	361081196	Foundations of Application Management	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Needs to be updated, but still useful	This book is outdated with respect to product capabilities and some of the standards discussed.  However, it remains a valuable resource for the following reasons:<br />(1) It places application management into a coherent context, (2) major standards are covered (DTMF, POSIX, SNMP), (3) vendor initiated standards are addressed, such as IBM's Tivoli Application Management Specification and the Application Response Measurement API (sponsored by a consortium of vendors), (4) it adds a dimension of practicality to application management context by providing example commercial- and standards-based approaches.<br />What I particularly like about this book is the fact that it is focused on application management and does not drift off into other areas.  All of the major standards and vendor initiatives and approaches are covered, and the challenges of application management are objectively discussed.  However, time is rendering this book obsolete and it is going to need a complete revision in the next year or so.  As of the date of this review I recommend this book to anyone who is looking at the big picture of service delivery and service level management because application management is one essential element.  However, I am not sure if I could make the same recommendation a year from now.	2001-09-23
US	46194801	RBRQLDB2HDHCA	047135838X	34025663	Manager's Guide to Contingency Planning for Disasters: Protecting Vital Facilities and Critical Operations	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Sensible approach to quickly getting a plan in place	While this book addresses contingency planning across the enterprise I found it extremely useful for a much narrower scope, which is assuring applications and systems availability, and service delivery.<br />The book focuses on quickly developing and implementing a basic contingency plan.  The approach set forth is straightforward and covers the basics of contingency planning: problem framing, impact analysis, developing the plan and testing/validating the plan. At 234 pages it is not a comprehensive text for disaster recovery or business continuity planning professionals, but for managers who see gaps or are exercising due diligence, this book covers all of the basics in sufficient detail.<br />What I like most is the simplicity of the approach, which will give you a starting point for implementing business contingency and continuity plans quickly.  Once implemented in accordance with the approach set forth in this book you will have a working plan that covers response strategies and roles and responsibilities that can be built upon and refined.  The most valuable chapters in this book address telephone communications, computer processing and vital facilities, all of which are critical to business operations.  Also pay careful attention to the beginning of the book because it clearly describes management's responsibility and culpability for having a viable plan in place.   <br />Also valuable are the appendices, which include case studies, sample computer contingency plan and sample business continuity strategies.  These samples illustrate how these important documents should be structured.<br />This book does not eliminate the need for professional assistance as the plan takes shape or after a baseline plan has been implemented.  Indeed, prudence and due diligence should guide you to seeking the services of certified business continuity planners or disaster recovery professionals, either as consultants or in-house staff positions.  However, this book does providea starting point, especially for smaller businesses that do not have a formal plan in place.	2001-09-23
US	46194801	R2BF7A39WXR5R0	031717178X	412978204	Analysis Bar Charting: A Simplified Critical Path Analysis Technique	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Short, simple and still valid	Although this book was published over 20 years ago it remains a valuable resource.  One of the reasons this is so is most project managers today gloss over project planning and jump right into scheduling.  Part of the reason is most PM software packages are really GANTT chart-oriented. The shortcoming from starting with a GANTT chart is sequence and dependencies are nearly impossible to manage.  On the other hand, the common tools used for sequencing and dependency analysis are CPM (critical path method) and PERT (program evaluation and review technique), both of which are complex and for most projects are overkill.<br />This book takes a simpler approach based on the activity-on-node precedence diagramming method (PDM). At 100 pages this book is a focused, but thorough, guide to using PDM as a key part of the project planning process.  Benefits include easier identification of schedule compression or simplification opportunities, spotting bottlenecks before a schedule is created and the ability to perform a realistic dependency analysis - all of which will pay big dividends from having a properly planned schedule.<br />Do not let the age of this book put you off. If you are not using PDM and were intimidated by CPM and PERT you'll be glad you bought this book.  I also recommend Nuts and Bolts Series 1--How to Build a Work Breakdown Structure by Carl Pritchard if you are not using work breakdown structures as the start of your project planning process.	2001-09-23
US	46194801	R133DUNFVL9LTT	1883629004	370748290	101 Creative Problem Solving Techniques: The Handbook of New Ideas for Business	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Nice collection of simple and effective tools	This book in my opinion will enhance your thinking process in terms of exercising your own creativity to solve business problems.  The tools in this book can be used to bring out your own originality and expressiveness in seeking solutions. <br />I liked the way the author James M. Higgins, gave real life examples of Giant Corporations that have used one or more of these problem-solving techniques.<br />The 101 techniques described in this book are broken down to by problem solving stages: environmental analysis, recognizing and identifying problems, making assumptions, generating alternatives, making choices and implementing solutions.  Each one of these processes is described in detail with graphics and, some chapters will have exercises that are deemed helpful in understanding the technique.<br />The techniques are presented in alphabetical order and are numbered twice, the first number denotes the techniques position from 1 to 101, and the second number is the techniques position within that section of the problem-solving model.<br />Chapter 4 which focused on  individual techniques  is the one that I personally found to be most helpful.  In my line of work as an IT Consultant I have exercised a few of these techniques such as mind mapping, but I also found other techniques that I can't wait to start using my next project.<br />There are many techniques to try in this book, some of these techniques you may not like, others won't fit, but overall this is a handy book to use for your problem-solving efforts.	2001-09-22
US	46194801	R1ZWTT3C0G1ZCX	0471899690	176037875	Competing with Information: A Manager's Guide to Creating Business Value with Information Content	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wide look at IS/IT Management Issues	This book is a collection of essays that cover the full spectrum if IS/IT management challenges and practices.  The essays are grouped into three Part and further subdivided into topic sections within their respective parts. Although the main audience is IS/IT management, this book should also be read by business process owners who are the consumers of IS/IT services.  <br />Part I is brief and sets the context by discussing the larger issues of competing with information and how to use information to create business value.  This is the foundation of the rest of the book and is aimed at IS/IT managers and [in my opinion] business process owners.  Part II (Putting Information to Work) begins with Section A's four chapters that tie information as processed and provided to the business to business goals and objectives.  The value of these chapters is they educate the IS/IT manager in the business value of the services and products that they are providing and showing them the bigger picture of their roles in supporting business objectives. Section B (Creating New Reality) consists of two chapters that touch upon knowledge management issues to a degree, and certainly illustrate how information can be leveraged into actionable knowledge.  Section C's two chapters address cost reduction, while Section D devotes two chapters to risk management and control.<BR>                     <BR>The most interesting portion of this book is Part III, which is focused on how to use information as a competitive advantage.  The five chapters in this Part starts with the basics of competing with information, and ends with a look at building e-commerce capabilities.<br />Overall, this book will provide IS/IT managers with a good foundation in business uses of information, which promotes a better understanding of IS/IT's role as a service provider and information manager.  This is important because, from what I've observed at many clients, IS/IT is focusing more and more on tools and technology, or infrastructure building. The direct result of this focus is a growing chasm between what's important to the business and what IS/IT perceives its role to be.  The essays in this book will go a long way towards educating IS/IT management and refocusing them on what is really important.	2001-09-22
US	46194801	R299NQC96UHTGQ	0199240671	770798883	Information Orientation: The Link to Business Performance	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good guidelines for IT/Business Alignment	There is nothing especially profound in this book, which is a collection of nine essays more than a cohesive book with chapters that segue from one to the next.  However, it does represent consistently good practices and valuable guidelines for every facet of IT-to-business alignment.  <br />Among the strongest chapters, in my opinion, are: 3-How Senior Managers Assess IT Practices and Business Maturity, 6-Discovering the Link between the Information Orientation of Senior Managers and Business Performance, and 8: Information Orientation: A New Business Metric: Effective Information Use in Companies.  These three chapters capture the essence of IT-to-business alignment and provide insights on challenges and barriers, and how to overcome them.<br />Each of the other chapters were well written and each contained additional insights. This book should be on the professional reading list of all IT managers, regardless of their technical domain.  It is especially applicable to CIOs and director-level IT managers. The importance of this book to those audience is the fact that achieving alignment is something that is much talked about, but rarely accomplished. This book places the key issues in context and provides some sound advice.	2001-09-22
US	46194801	R3K9C7SWC8D4NZ	0201728877	726256402	Making the Software Business Case: Improvement by the Numbers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Well written, sensible and effective	There are two books on business case development that have deeply influenced my thinking: this one and &quot;IT Investment: Making a Business Case&quot; by Dan Remenyi. Each book has a different focus.  If your goal is to develop business cases to support procurement or development of large scale systems or strategic initiatives, Mr. Remenyi's book is better suited to your needs.  However, if you are managing the incremental development or implementation of systems, or adding functionality and features to existing systems (or infrastructure), justifying tools and other similar activities, this book is better suited to your needs.  <br />What sets this book apart?  First, the author focuses on tactical business cases, which are typically abbreviated.  Unfortunately, they are also typically a morass of disjointed thoughts that are not backed up with numbers that the decision makers neither understand or consider relevant. He provides you with a focus and a solid foundation of what a business case needs to address.  <br />Second, instead of trying to teach business 101, the author provides you with some the basic principles and tools for developing a business case that you can sell to the folks who write the checks (a.k.a. &quot;bean counters&quot;).  <br />Third, and [in my opinion] most importantly, you are provided with a strategy for &quot;selling&quot; your business case by ensuring that it contains sensible assumptions, is linked to goals.  Also, in keeping with the tactical nature of the business case approach it's also tied to life cycle stages.  <br />Among the parts of the book that I most like are: (1) development of the business case incorporates traceability - the author uses goal-question-metric as the framework, which is easily recognizable to business managers since it aligns nicely to objective-critical success factor-key performance indicator.  (2) The case studies in Section II give you some real life examples of common scenarios.  You can learn as much from the business cases as you can from the preceding discussions of concepts and techniques.<br />This book represents a valuable resource that will augment your technical skills with some sound business skills. The book is clearly written and filled with both excellent advice and common sense. It is also written by someone who understands the technical professional's and business viewpoints, and imparts that understanding with great skill.	2001-09-22
US	46194801	R3GAJALAOZVGX7	0201708477	842930936	E-Business and IS Solutions: An Architectural Approach to Business Problems and Opportunities	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Principles &amp; models cut through complexity	This book is a light, high-level view of architecture.  It doesn't pretend to be a comprehensive &quot;how-to&quot; or highly technical tome.  Instead, it breaks down the complexities of developing an architecture into a set of guiding principles and seven discrete steps.  Products are not mentioned and technology is subordinated to broad discussions instead of specifics.<br />It starts with an extremely brief, but informational, description of the characteristics of e-business and some of the challenges and opportunities that set it apart from an architectural requirements standpoint.  This is followed with an in-depth discussion of the &quot;essence of architecture&quot; that sets the tone and pace for the rest of the book.  I like this because there is a vast difference between a definition, which can be succinctly described, and an essence, which is more a philosophy.  The philosophy given by the author is sensible and lays the foundation for the principles and seven steps of defining the architecture that follow in later chapters.  Especially valuable is way architecture is broken down into views: component, design, blueprint and framework.  Also included in the essence section are two chapters, one addressing object-oriented methods and the other on project scope.  Each contained a wealth of information and some sound points of view and advice. Regardless of your knowledge or experience I recommend reading through these two chapters because of the fresh ideas that pop up throughout them.  It forced me to see things in ways that I do not normally observe.<br />The seven-step solution building process encompasses the eight chapters of Part II.  The first chapter, introduction, gives guiding principles and these are worth printing on a large poster and memorizing. The process itself is (1) business modeling, (2) IS modeling, (3) Current IS analysis, (4) IS architectural planning, (5) implementation planning, (6) deployment and (7) review.  In one respect there isnothing new or unique about this process, but the value in reading through each of the chapters is how clearly the approach is described and how the supporting information is developed.  The writing here (and illustrations) exemplify clarity.  I gained a lot, too, from the many lists and tables.  <br />Part III is titled &quot;Let's Get Practical&quot; and is where the author ties together loose ends by addressing the use of consultants, methodologies (good and bad) and reuse.  There is a lot of wisdom and advice here as in the rest of the book - much of it delivered with humor and always with good sense.<br />Overall, this is an excellent book.  It's well written, filled with information and puts you in the right frame of mind to tackle architecture in a methodical manner. What it does not do is provide technical details or espouse any particular product or technology - there are other books for that.	2001-09-19
US	46194801	RS5SDX0PO7FDR	0672320630	871833897	Business Process Management: Profiting From Process	Books	5	99	101	N	N	Best in class book with a full view of the subject	Among the stack of business process and process design books I've read this one stands out as the best. The reason for this bold statement is this is the only one that carefully examines business processes from the four dimensions of (1)Business, (2) Process, (3) Knowledge and (4)Business Rules.  Contrast the four-dimensional view this book provides with the two-dimensional view most business process books take (business and process), and you'll begin to see why I like it so much and how this book is a good fit for process analysts and engineers who are faced with aligning business processes to e-commerce initiatives, or aligning IT to business.<br />What I like most is the book is divided into a management guide and a practitioner's guide.  This is a unique approach that has a significant benefit:  it aligns the sponsors and business process owners (managers) and the design and implementation teams (practitioners) into a unified team by giving each group the necessary information for business process management in their own language and from their own points of view.  Among the &quot;necessary information&quot; are&quot; ten guiding principles, a common framework and project management essentials.  <br />I also like the way knowledge management is included, the clear focus on end results and the fact that the processes are designed for contemporary business (e-commerce, supply chain management, etc.), and incorporation of business rules.  Combined, these make this book stand out as the best on the topic (in my opinion).<br />This book blends the no-nonsense process approach of pure process books with the fresh views of the current flood of &quot;e&quot; books, and does so without hype or gushing promises.  It's down-to-earth, copiously illustrated and methodical. I strongly recommend this as the primary book on business process management and give it 5 stars.	2001-09-16
US	46194801	R1FUGLXI4I4ZX3	0812928083	451339059	The Thinker's Toolkit: 14 Powerful Techniques for Problem Solving	Books	5	164	165	N	N	Probably the most effective book an analyst can own	Regardless of whether you specialize in a particular business skill, work in IT, are a consultant, or someone who wants to make a critical personal decision, this book will give you the necessary tools for decision making.<br />It has three parts:  (1) 50 pages on the basics of problem solving and decision making, (2) a collection of the fourteen tools that will make you an effective problem solver or decision maker, and (3) Next steps for refining your problem solving.<br />Part 1 prepares you by getting you to think about thinking and providing insights to problem solving - sort of like a warm up before you engage in strenuous exercise.  This is appropriate because as you work through the exercises associated with each tool you will be getting a strenuous mental workout - the author makes you think hard throughout the book.<br />The tools given in this book are the foundation of any problem solving process. Although the author presents them in their most basic form, there are endless variations of them (and you will recognize many as you read through this book). Each tool is presented by giving some background, situations in which the particular tool is most effective, step-by-step procedures for using the tool and exercises. Answers to each exercise, including worked examples, are provided in the back of the book. The tools themselves are: (1) Problem restatement, (2) PROs-CONs-FIXes, (3) Divergent Thinking, (4) Sorting, Chronologies and Timelines, (5) Causal Flow Diagramming, (6) Matrices, (7) Decision/Event Trees, (8) Weighted Ranking, (9) Hypothesis Testing, (10) Devil's Advocacy, (11) Probability Tree, (12) Utility Tree, (13) Utility Matrix and (14) Advanced Utility Analysis.<br />I cannot point to any one thing I like more than another in this excellent book. I've used virtually every tool listed at one time or another before reading this book.  However, after going through the [not-so-easy] exercises provided I can assure you that the next time I have occasion to use any of the 14 tools I will do so with a great deal more skill and efficiency.  Since I'm an IT consultant who is constantly involved in analysis and problem solving I keep this book nearby as a ready reference.  It has proven it's value time after time and earns it my highest recommendation.	2001-09-16
US	46194801	R2OD7JQ48TJ8TB	1563272237	963971624	Winning Score: How to Design and Implement Organizational Scorecards (Quality Management)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Essential for mature organizations	This book goes a long way towards helping organizations actually implement balanced scorecards instead of giving them lip service. It also shows what to measure and why, and gives a list of measurement mistakes that render many company's balanced scorecard efforts meaningless.<br />Unlike Kaplan's and Norton's seminal (and decade old) book, &quot;The Balanced Scorecard&quot;, this book is short on theory and heavy on practical applications.  This is not a criticism of &quot;The Balanced Scorecard&quot; - just recognition of the fact that in the ensuing decade since that book was first published there have been lesson's learned about what does and does not work. The author distills these lesson's learned into this slim, content-filled book.<br />What I like most is the author clearly links metrics to vision, mission and strategy.  This is what a balanced scorecard is supposed to be about, but this is not always so in practice.  He also sorts out the difference between basic business indicators and critical success factors, which is augmented by an outstanding discussion (throughout the book) on top measurement mistakes, and a liberal sprinkling of tips throughout the book.<br />Probably the most valuable parts of the book are Part 3, where step-by-step procedures are given to implement an *effective* scorecard, and the appendices which contain case studies drawn from real organizations and actual scorecards. The examples given are worth their weight in gold and elevate this book from the theoretical to realistic and practical. My highest recommendation and 5 solid stars.	2001-09-16
US	46194801	R1CWU5B9VGKY1T	020160468X	690973392	Web Business Engineering: Using Offline Activities to Drive Internet Strategies (Addison-Wesley Information Technology Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The way it should be done!	Until reading this book I thought I had a good understanding of what it took to design the underlying strategy and processes supporting commercial web sites.  After reading this book I clearly saw how wrong I was.<br />The approach set forth in this incredible book is straightforward and focused solely on business imperatives.  I suspect that the author and publisher realized that the title would attract IT professionals and consultants, which accounts for the inclusion of business 101.  I almost skipped over this part and am glad I didn't.  Even here what I thought I knew about business turned out to be superficial.  The education you will receive in Business 101 goes well beyond the basics and I recommend that everyone read this regardless of whether you are an IT professional or have a business background.  You might just discover that you've been misapplying common techniques such as NPV, IRR and ROI, or using the results in erroneous ways.  In other words, the section titled &quot;Business 101&quot; is much, much more.<br />I loved the author's approach to value chain analysis, which is straightforward and based on a simple, but effective, notational language.  Here, like in every other chapter, I learned techniques that will serve me well in general consulting assignments outside of web business engineering.  <br />The web business engineering methodology itself is one of the leanest, most effective processes that I've ever encountered.  I can only describe it as elegant.  It's a blueprint for success when success is measured by how well a system is aligned to business strategy and goals. If you follow the method and resist the temptation to take shortcuts you will be rewarded with a system that meets all of your requirements and objectives whatever they may be - and you'll know exactly what the value of that system is to your organization.<br />A few observations about this book:  (1) Give yourself plenty of time to read through this book and work through each example.  It took me four times as long as it would for a book of approximate page count and topic complexity.  If you're unwilling to make this commitment, perhaps you should pass this book up. (2) I fully agree with the author and a previous reviewer that web systems projects should be managed by business instead of IT.  (3) If you're an IT professional get this book and read it from cover to cover - even if you never work on a web project you'll receive an incredible education in business factors and requirements analysis that will serve you well on *any* project.  As a fellow IT professional I will assure you that this book will change your outlook.<br />This book is among the best I've read on any topic or subject and should be required reading for anyone who is assigned to a web project.  It's also, in my opinion, one of the most important books published in the past few years.	2001-09-16
US	46194801	R3CPDFZ6R59ASQ	0471970735	506047279	Information Technology and Organizational Transformation: Innovation for the 21st Century Organization (John Wiley Series in Information Systems)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Valuable resource for research &amp; best practices	This collection of essays is devoted to all facets of aligning IT and business.  While the central theme is integration of information technologies into the fabric of business processes as an enabler, the book touches on peripheral issues that cause you to think in much larger terms.  If you take the holistic view that is presented in the book you will be armed with information, ideas and knowledge to accomplish an organizational transformation that meets your unique business needs.<br />Essays that I especially liked are:<br />Section 1 STARTING AFRESH: &quot;Linking Strategy and IT-based Innovation&quot;, which gives an interesting perspective on marrying technological innovation to business strategy; and, &quot;Computer Supported Collaborative Working&quot;. This essay will spark some ideas on how to integrate systems and business processes. Section 2 IT AND THE LEARNING ORGANIZATION in its entirety is short, but contains a wealth of information for knowledge engineers.  In Section 3, INNOVATION, NETWORKS AND CORPORATE IDENTITY, the essay titled &quot;Innovations as Precursors of Organizational Performance&quot; is a fascinating study linking innovation to performance, with predictive indicators.  This is probably my favorite essay.  Section 4, IT AND ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE, is on the mark in all respects. Each essay contained information that was immediately useful to me for a project in which I was working.<br />Who this book is for:  executive- and director-level management in both the business and IT domains will benefit most because of the strategic nature of the essays.  This is not to say that this book does not also support tactical-level initiatives, because it does, and also provides a foundation of thought and practices for managers who occupy lower rungs on the organizational ladder.  However, the most immediate value will be to the former group.  Also, business and IT consultants will find this book to be thought-provoking and a source of viable ideas.	2001-09-14
US	46194801	R3OX9LZVE7V5QZ	1555611427	831854419	Rapid Problem Solving with Post-It Notes	Books	5	128	132	N	N	Common tools used in uncommon ways	As an IT Consultant I am always looking for different methods to solve problems.  I found this book to be simple but yet valuable. <br />When I first started reading this book it took me back to a book called &quot;Visualizing Project Management&quot; where the authors Forsberg, Mooz and Cotterman use the process of &quot;Cards on the Wall&quot; technique to encourage group thinking and visually determine dependencies. <br />This book introduces an effective way to solve problems with Post-it® Note. It starts off by showing simple key principles: (1) Chunking; capturing small information of data, (2) Problem Patterns, arranging and determining relationships, (3) Guiding decisions and keeping clear objectives, and (4) the *FOG* factor (Facts, Opinions, Guesses). <br />The core of the book provides 6 easy to use methods: (1) Post up, (2) Swap sort, (3) Top-down Tree, (4) Bottom-up Tree, (5) Information map and (6) Action Map.  Note that &quot;Information map&quot; has nothing to do with Information Mapping®, which is both a registered trademark and different method owned by Information Mapping, Inc.<br />These methods are represented graphically with many examples to help you determine which method is best suited to find the solution for complex problems.<br />What I found most helpful in this book was the step-by-step procedures in every chapter.  Every method has a clear definition of what it is and how and when it should be used.  Grasping these methods will paint a clear picture towards the direction of a solution.  I recommend this book to those that are looking for an effective, yet simple, way of solving problems.	2001-09-14
US	46194801	R1APPEC2Z833CT	0849398207	848368624	IS Management Handbook, Seventh Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Complete Reference for Consultants and IS/IT Ops	This is a collection of focused essays divided among five IS/IT management and operational domains: <BR>SECTION 1 (Achieving Strategic IT Alignment), SECTION 2 (Designing and Operating an Enterprise Infrastructure), SECTION 3 (Providing Application Solutions), SECTION 4 (Exploiting Web Technologies)and SECTION 5 (Facilitating Knowledge Work). <br />Because this book covers such a wide landscape of management and operational issues it is impossible to let a potential reader know which are best since most readers are going to be interested in a particular domain or select topics in more than one of the five domains this book addresses.  I'll cite the essays that I read out of personal interest or professional need, or that especially impressed me.  <br />I read all of the essays in Section 1 because of research and professional interest.  Each was well written and collectively they contained a wealth of valuable information on topics in that domain.<br />In Section 2 &quot;Improving Data Center Productivity and Effectiveness&quot;, &quot;Quality Assurance and Control&quot; and Quality Information Services all contained invaluable information and reflected the authors' deep knowledge and insights into these topics.  I skipped over the other essays in this section, but if the ones I read were any indication of the content and quality of the rest, then this section contains a wealth of information.<br />&quot;Strategic Use of JAD&quot; in Section 3 was insightful and gave me a lot of ideas on requirements elicitation and management using Joint Application Design workshops as effective approaches.  I also liked &quot;Project Success and Customer Needs&quot;, &quot;Win-Win Projects&quot; and &quot;Managing the User/IS Relationship&quot;, each of which provided complementary approaches to user-center project management and how to assure that your project's final deliverables reflect true user requirements.  This cluster of essays would make a small and valuable book in andof themselves.<br />I skipped over SECTION 4 (Exploiting Web Technologies) because I have other material on that domain; however, I did quickly glance through a few of the essays and thought they were accurate (from what little I read) and well written.  Section 5, in its entirety, was filled with useful information. I carefully read through this section and found gems of information and insights in each of the essays, the most interesting of which is &quot;Helping Users Help Themselves&quot;.   <br />This book is suited for organizational use more than for individuals because of the range of topics covered. In my opinion the essays were on par with papers produced by the Meta Group, GartnerGroup and other consultative content providers, making this book a bargain and valuable resource.	2001-09-14
US	46194801	R1Y2XG4ORE7MKD	1893673065	535633370	Framing the Domains of IT Management : Projecting the Future...Through the Past	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Academic, but contains fresh thinking and great ideas	Of all of the recent books on IT organization, strategic planning and operations management, this is without a doubt the best.  I'm making this statement, in part, because the book squarely addresses some thorny issues with which I am currently grappling.  These issues include organizing for effective and responsive service delivery and optimal use of IT as an enabling business resource. The issues that I am facing define the most appropriate audience for this book - if you are facing the same challenges, then this book is going to be immensely useful.  <br />Highlights based on my requirements and research areas are:<br />Section 1-The Value-Adding Consequences of Information Technologies:  &quot;Managing Organizational Knowledge&quot; and &quot;Virtual Teams: Piecing Together the Puzzle&quot; were two highly interesting and well-written essays that go to the essence of how to use IT to deliver value to the business. <br />Section 2-Successfully Implementing Technologies and Technology-Based Solutions: &quot;Individual Acceptance of Information Technologies&quot; was the best essay in this section. It provided some real insights into the critical success factors for effecting organizational change from process and systems viewpoints. Well worth reading if you are trying to effect organizational change.<br />Section 3-The Intertwining of Business Strategy and Information Technology:  Every essay in this section is worth a careful read and some reflection.  There was an almost overwhelming amount of fresh ideas here. There were also some mundane material, but overall, this section is valuable.<br />Section 4-Information Technology Management in an Information Age:  The section's title is trite, but the essays are not.  Of the four sections in this book this one was less academic and addressed real world issues head on.<br />A few facts about this book needs to be understood: (1) it's somewhat academic in nature, (2) there is a coherent theme, but not a sequential &quot;how to&quot; book - it's a collection of highly focused essays, (3) the topic areas have some overlap. I personally gained much from the book as a whole and view it as an investment in knowledge.  Because of its theme and focus it may or may not be a good choice for all readers.	2001-09-14
US	46194801	R22BHVKI6KVWVF	0130868264	149426396	Successful Software Development (2nd Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Distills a complex subject into modular parts	This book cuts through the fog of competing standards and methodologies in the software engineering domain.  It gives a clear picture of a process and associated procedures that can be effectively applied to any capability model (CMM, SPICE), process and procedures approach (TickIT, ISO 9000-3), and does so without drifting into any particular methodology.  This is a key strength.<br />What I found especially valuable is the way the authors clearly illustrate processes as well as artifacts.  For example, the Quantified Product Integrity Attributes illustration in chapter 6 distills on a single page a highly complex concept into an easy-to-understand storyboard.  Another example, on the facing page is the Requirements Specification Evolution, which portrays a complex sequence in a single illustration.  Since the book has around 200 illustrations, most of which are page size, in the book's 745 pages, getting a clear picture of the software development domain and its associated processes is easy.  The text is clearly written and hits all of the key areas of software development, starting with business cases and project planning.<br /> In this one book I have found processes, procedures and techniques that I can apply to both application delivery and service delivery for clients.  Also, for the first time I was able to clearly see the &quot;big picture&quot; and how carefully thought-out development processes can be used to deliver value to end users instead of mere applications.<br />I highly recommend this book and give it a solid five stars.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R20PSA106HVVSA	0672318539	423037004	The Object-Oriented Thought Process	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Undoes bad habits	After reading this book I realized why so many development projects that use object-oriented tools and techniques fail - they are staffed by developers who think in the traditional terms of procedures and functions.  In retrospect it dawned on me that there is a high probability that developers who started out with procedural languages view objects as functions.  <br />This book provides a compass that will point developers in the right direction by breaking mental paradigms.  It does so by getting them to think in terms of states instead of functions, and objects as components, independent of the application being developed, with well-defined interfaces and properties that can be used to create services. <br />I personally learned a lot about object-orientation, which I can apply to analysis.  This book is a quick and easy read, and packs a lot of information and concepts between its covers.  I highly recommend it and give it five stars for clarity and content.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R2NR27331AK6H4	0750671858	997342783	Developing Knowledge-Based Client Relationships: The Future of Professional Services (Knowledge Reader)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Essential reading for consultants	As a consultant who lives from one engagement to the next one of the buzzwords as projects are wrapped up is &quot;knowledge transfer&quot;.  It is almost like an afterthought and triggers some frantic activity to throw together a last minute plan, get the client's staff to absorb an array of information in a compressed timeframe, and sign off.  This book changes that approach for me, and does so in a big way.<br />After reading the proactive approach to planned knowledge transfer, which needs to be a part of the initial project plan, I would consider the approach I cited above to not only be unprofessional, but borders on malpractice.<br />This book treats knowledge as a valuable commodity (something the business development types certainly preach, but the engagement team misses), and provides a methodical approach to using knowledge as a the product.  Given the fact that we consultants are selling that very thing (knowledge) in a perfect world there should be no need for this book.  Unfortunately, this book is sorely needed, and should be required reading for every consultant, regardless of whether he or she is a independent or member of one of the &quot;Big 5&quot;.<br />Rarely do I read a book than makes a dramatic impact on my thinking, or fills me with resolve to immediately assimilate and use the content - this one does.  I think it is an important work that is well written and gives a strong foundation for ethical practices and professionalism.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R3STHP8S4KPNNB	0471414352	792248907	Automated Web Testing Toolkit: Expert Methods for Testing and Managing Web Applications	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Great *basic* resource	This book gives a viable testing process and some excellent artifacts that will get new test engineers and QA specialists quickly up-to-speed. <br />Although the title claims that this book is an *automated* web testing toolkit, there is little test automation coverage.  However, getting past the title, this book does lay an excellent foundation for testing processes and procedures. The artifacts on the CD ROM add to the value, and although more experienced software test and QA personnel might find this book basic, I think that it does an excellent job.  <br />Among the things I like most include the system independent approach that the author takes - UNIX and Microsoft technologies are given equal and unbiased treatment, and the tools that the author does use as examples reflect her objectivity.<br />While some may lament the fact that this book is basic, I believe that the &quot;basics&quot; are sorely needed in the web environment because the testing that I have observed isn't rigorous if it's done at all.  From that perspective, this book may be basic, but it introduces web development and support teams to a methodical approach to testing and its importance.<br />As long as you know the strengths and weaknesses of this book you can make an informed purchasing decision.  If you are an advanced QA practitioner, or are seeking information on automated web testing this book will probably disappoint you.  However, if you are feeling the pain of poor web QA (defects routinely caught after code or content is released), or need to learn the basics of web testing, then you might find this book to be a valuable resource.  In my opinion the artifacts on the CD ROM alone are worth many times the price of the book.  Your opinion may differ. This book merits five stars for the right audience.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R2STV51964EDAY	0970247117	96919854	Measuring Performance : Using the new metrics to deploy strategy and improve performance	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Amazing amount of info in less than 100 pages	This has to be one of the most sensible, best written books on performance measurement ever written.  True, it's less than 100 pages and any single topic in the book would merit 100 pages, but the way the author clearly presents the information and his gift for explaining complex topics and concepts in simple terms makes this a valuable resource for those of us who never seem to catch up on our reading backlog.<br />Highlights: (1) Part 1's chapter on The Balanced Scorecard manages to capture the essence of Kaplan's and Norton's seminal book on that subject.  (2) All of Part 2, including measurement models, defining metrics and the three-step method given by the author are invaluable tools.  (3) Part 3's Using Metrics to Improve Performance is on the mark in each of the chapters. Likewise, Part 4's Advanced Metrics is excellent because the treatment of process and capability metrics makes these two topics understandable (I had a hard time grasping these topics in other books).<br />This book earns 5 stars and goes on my short list of books to recommend to clients and colleagues.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R3CG0LVN3P75O3	1893673014	241301801	Crossing Boundaries: The Deployment of Global IT Solutions (Practice-driven research in IT management series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Must reading for IT PMs &amp; consultants in global companies	This is am important work for anyone responsible for rolling out large-scale systems on a global or local scale.  The book's tone is somewhat academic, but the issues and factors that it addresses unquestionably applies to real-world challenges.<br />The two parts I liked most are chapter 4 (crossing cultural boundaries) and chapter 8 (deployment timelines).  The cultural boundary issue addressed in chapter 4 can also be applied to corporate culture as well as national and ethnic cultural boundaries, and the information provided in invaluable for anyone who works in the global domain or is a consultant who has to adjust to each new client.  Getting past the culture and internal politics is a fact of life and not addressed in most books to the degree it is in this one.<br />Chapter 8's treatment of deployment timelines is an excellent resource for project managers.  The associated checklists provided in chapter 9 are especially valuable as well.<br />Overall, this book is a valuable addition to the scant body of knowledge on deploying large-scale systems and solutions, and is must reading for anyone who works with global companies as an IT project manager or member of a global project team.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R8CE431I4HUKR	0970247109	438665567	Crafting Strategy:  Planning how you  will prevail over competitors and obstacles	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Refreshingly straightforward	This short, well-written book covers strategic planning in a fast-paced, but complete, manner.<br />Highlights are Part 3, Strategy Concepts, and Part 4, Tools and Methods.<br />Part 3 gives a concise view of how to compete, forces and elements in the competitive environment, and how to place competitors into a context in which you can craft a competitive strategy.  I thought that the strongest chapter in this part of the book was on value-based management.<br />Although I liked Part 3, I loved Part 4. The basic tools for crafting a strategy are thoroughly discussed. The treatment of strengths/weaknesses/opportunities/threats (SWOT) analysis was clear and well done; however I especially liked value chain analysis and scenario mapping.  I was able to quickly put these two tools to use on a project, making the book far more valuable to me than its cost. I also gained a lot from Part 5, which contains excellent advice on how to turn your strategic planning into action.<br />Overall, this is a wonderful book and is short, packed with information and [in my case] a just-in-time resource for a project.	2001-09-11
US	46194801	R1ELP8TMA1KG6U	0131595911	348022869	Managing Computer Projects: Avoiding the Pitfalls (Bcs Practitioner Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thorough and complete planning and estimating info	This is an excellent book for project managers and key team members who are involved in development projects. Although this book is out of print it is worth the effort to track down a copy because of the emphasis on planning and estimation. This material will serve you well with any development project life cycle methodology from the Rational Unified Process to the often disdained but frequently used waterfall model. The book starts out strong with a 5-page chapter devoted to outlining the challenges that you'll face. After 25+ years in the industry I think the challenges cited are as fresh today as they were when I started out. Hopefully this succinct chapter will be read and heeded. Launching the project is covered well in the scant 18 pages of the next chapter. Chapter 3 on analysis and design is a bit out of date with respect to more modern approaches, but chapter 4's thorough and accurate treatment of project plans and estimates makes this book worthwhile. The final two chapters on implementing the project and project manager roles and qualities are mediocre. However, the 30-page appendix titled &quot;Estimating Guidelines&quot; is pure gold. This alone is worth the price of the book, but combined with chapter 4 it is the core of the book and a compelling reason to track down a used copy of this out-of-print book. I give it 5 stars.	2001-08-28
US	46194801	R1JAZNGAR99TL3	189263709X	967002539	Visual Language: Global Communication for the 21st Century	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The missing piece of Information Mapping®	As a trained and active Information Mapping practitioner I have come to respect Mr. Horn's genius. This book cements my respect and builds upon his impressive accomplishments in the field of verbal (and now visual) communications. The approach in the book, like Information Mapping itself, takes some getting used to. Moreover, it can produce some visually ugly pages. In fact, I almost discarded the book based on some of the examples within, but discovered that these eyesores actually did communicate concepts and facts. What makes this book important is the equal importance placed on words, images and shapes, and the recipe for integrating them into a highly visual communications medium. It also provided me with some deep insights about the cognitive aspects of shapes, colors and symbols. If you are looking for a book on page layout and design look elsewhere. If you're an Information Mapping practitioner, this book will nicely dovetail with the principles of information chunking and integrating graphics that are inherent in that method. I have gained much from this book and have already used the techniques to good effect in a few recent projects. It earns 5 stars in my opinion.	2001-08-28
US	46194801	R3V3A99EYFRWHO	0849398363	360261112	Enterprise System Architectures: Building Client Server and Web Based Systems	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Complete roadmap towards best practices and processes	This book provides a macro view of a comprehensive architecture and then systematically decomposes it into its component parts. The scope of architecture goes well beyond the technical underpinnings by extending to processes and tools. The first section covers an overview of &quot;netcentric&quot; computing and ties it to business imperatives. &quot;Netcentric&quot; within the context is all encompassing and fits within e-business and the older client/server paradigms. Technical components are thoroughly dissected in Section II, and are placed into the framework of processes and services. I especially liked the operations architecture discussed because it is often overlooked. Another excellent chapter in this section covers transition frameworks, which addresses some of the thorniest issues faced by CIOs and operations managers as systems evolve to fit the e-commerce and extended supply chain models that considered contemporary. Section III thoroughly covers designing and implementing solutions, and is, in my opinion, completely on the mark in all respects. The chapter on testing is the best I have ever read - even in books devoted to testing. I had always been frustrated by the ambiguous use of the term &quot;test cycle&quot;. The description and approach provided in this book clarified the concept and provided a clear roadmap for a sensible testing process. The final section covers special topics and does so in a thought-provoking manner. Each relatively short chapter compressed a lot of relevant information on the chapter's topic. It was akin to attending focused seminars on security, knowledge management and the other topics covered. This book is a desk reference, consultant's life saver and solid description of an architecture. It can easily serve as the specification document for an IT reengineering project and is nothing short of amazing for its completeness and thoroughness.	2001-08-28
US	46194801	R3VTRP8MRHGXQ3	0782124275	746408255	SAP R/3 Implementation With ASAP : The Official SAP Guide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Clear, Well-Written and Informative	I got this book based on a recommendation of an associate who liked the way it laid out the implementation of a complex software suite.  I am not a SAP R/3 specialist, but am an IS/IT consultant who develops and implements service level management solutions and also manages projects of the complexity and scope of an R/3 implementation.  Moreover, I have been providing consulting services to a company that does specialize in R/3 integration, so reading this book became important for a number of professional reasons.<br />Things I most like:  the book is an easy read and is laid out in a sequence that allows you to fully understand the issues and factors, and tasks and deliverables required to implement R/3 using SAP's ASAP approach. I loved the clear illustrations and the sequencing of tasks.  I had no problem understanding this book even though I had never implemented (or even supported R/3).  I saw numerous parallels between the R/3 implementation requirements and those of past projects in which I had participated.  When I was in the mainframe world a book this complete and clearly laid out would have been worth its weight in gold.  In fact, the clarity and information contained in the book is much better than anything I have read or used in *any* environment.<br />I found none of the major shortcomings pointed out by previous reviewers.  I think the book addresses security in the detail called for because this implementation aspect is tailored to each enterprise and no single book can possibly cover it in detail.  I also found the information presented on two levels: one for technical staff and the other for business process owners, both groups will be playing a big role in any implementation.  Perhaps if the business and technical information were segmented in the book it would be more accessible to both groups; however, it would also break the flow of the book.  I personally like it the way it is.  I do agree that the CD ROM contains material that has nothing top do with the book's topic.<br />Overall, I learned a lot about SAP R/3 ASAP implementation and general issues and factors for any large-scale application implementation from this book.  The author did an excellent job of structuring the book to correspond to project phases and stages, and the well designed illustrations greatly aided the text.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who is going to be involved in an R/3 ASAP implementation, or who needs a good model for planning the implementation of any complex enterprise application suite. It earns 5 stars from my point of view.	2001-08-16
US	46194801	R12Q890T0XRZ3O	0471400394	455541842	Strategic Planning for Project Management Using a Project Management Maturity Model	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Much-needed effort, but has pitfalls	This book represents an excellent effort to apply the capability maturity model(CMM) to project management.  For reference, the CMM was originated by Mitre Corp. and developed by the Software Engineering Institute originally as a benchmark for determining an organization's software engineering capabilities.  It has become a widely used benchmark in the software engineering community and has been extended to other domains, such as human resources (the People Capability Maturity Model) and other disciplines.<br />The book starts off with an introduction, followed by three chapters that lay the groundwork for the author's maturity model: The Need for Strategic Planning for Project Management, Impact of Economic Conditions on Project Management, Principles of Strategic Planning.  The ideas and material presented here are very much applicable to program management offices.  <br />Project Management Maturity Model (PMMM) is introduced in the next chapter, which ties project management to an enterprise-wide strategic planning initiative. It also provides a project management-centric view of capability maturity.  The next five chapters are devoted to each of the five levels of the PMMM: Level 1 (Common Language), Level 2 (Common Processes), Level 3 (Singular Methodology), Level 4 (Benchmarking), and Level 5 (Continuous Improvement).<br />The value of this is project management practices can be assessed against a standard benchmark for capability, which is something that cannot be achieved by comparing these practices against Project Management Institute's Project Management Body of Knowledge. <br />There is one pitfall to the PMMM that the author proposes: it uses a different paradigm than the CMM, which is Level-1 (Ad Hoc), Level-2 (Repeatable), Level-3 (Defined), Level-4 (Managed) and Level-5 (Optimizing).  This is not a problem outside of the software development industry and IT domain where the CMM is not known.  However, because the CMM integrates project management into its process areas, the disparity of terminology, assessment paradigm and the model itself will cause confusion and make implementing the PMMM in a CMM organization a nightmare. <br />One thing I do like very much is the balanced approach the author takes.  This is shown in a chapter titled &quot;Special Problems with Strategic Planning for Project Management.&quot;  Also, the case studies at the end of the book are excellent reading.  <br />Here's the conundrum:  the project management profession needs a benchmark and the PMMM is well thought out and thorough.  However, the PMMM differs in many ways from the CMM.  My personal take is at least the author drove a stake into the ground by raising an awareness of the need for a PMMM. He also has thought this through and the model itself is sound.  I found the book invaluable and thought-provoking.  It does lay the foundation for a PMO, as stated by a previous reviewer, and that is something that is only marginally addressed in the official U.S. PM standard (Project Management Body of Knowledge).  The value outweighs the cited pitfall, in my opinion, and earns this book 5 stars and my recommendation that every serious PM read this book.	2001-08-16
US	46194801	RZXN6DTA4UC2D	0471975001	711276079	Achieving Maximum Value From Information Systems: A Process Approach	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Solid foundation for IS/IT Strategic Planning	This book is a well-written step-by-step map to gaining control over IS/IT costs and strategic planning.  <br />The core of the approach is active benefit realization (ABR), which is a continuous assessment and management methodology that is characterized by: (1) self-calibration/continuous improvement, (2) IS/IT management by all stakeholders (technical and business), and comprehensive understanding of IS/IT and how it supports business functions and processes.<br />ABR is immediately introduced in the beginning of the book, as well as why the approach is critical to fully integrating IS/IT into the enterprise as a business enabler.  The next part of the book discusses key factors for evaluating information systems.  This part is rich with checklists, tables and other useful artifacts.  Building upon this foundation is excellent material on evaluation techniques, outcomes and benefit modelling (taking an investment-oriented approach that is one of the best applications and services portfolio management approaches I have come across), and the details of micro modelling (the devil, they say, is in the details!)<br />Once the foundation has been built the book presents the ABR approach as a process. In simplistic terms this process entails three phases:  (1) Setting the course (capturing and understanding the business, financial and project views), (2) Formative evaluation (stakeholder management of the project - this approach is nearly identical to the approach prescribed by PRINCE2, which is the U.K. project management standard), (3) Moving forward (continuous improvement and calibration.  In other words, consolidating gains and improving upon them in a methodical manner.)    The last part of the book is a collection of tips, tricks and traps - this is essential reading and contains the collective wisdom of the authors.  Heed every word because there are some real gems here.  <br />I learned a lot from the book, including many standalone techniques for analysis, evaluation and financial assessment that I can use on other projects.  As a whole, the approach embodied in ABR is sound and one that I will use on my next engagement that requires an in-depth analysis and formulation of a strategy, assuming of course, that the next client has a strong commitment to follow the course of action set forth in the book.  The benefits of ABR certainly will provide a handsome return on the investment and commitment required to make it a success.  This book is invaluable and highly recommended for consultants, CIOs and upper IS/IT management.  It is also highly recommended for any project team operating under PRINCE2.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	RQ96PMO8EJYGH	0071347038	492235683	Area Activity Analysis	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding approach to ogranizing for service delivery	This book's theme is developing a workforce that is aligned to overall organizational mission and goals, is accountable for performing to established metrics and focused on meeting customer expectations. The workforce is broken into &quot;natural work teams&quot; are service-oriented as opposed to function- or task-oriented. Without a methodical approach, such as the one set forth in this book, developing such a workforce is a near-impossible task. However, the authors lay out a clear path to achieving just such a workforce.<br />The expected outcome of area activity analysis is cultural change (starting with renaming teams to reflect their real roles as service providers), focusing the mission on service, defining clear activity descriptions for which the teams are responsible, determining how to measure team  effectiveness, establishing service-related performance standards and restructuring reward systems.<br />Using a seven phase approach, the book leads you through the entire process of transforming to &quot;natural work teams&quot;.  The first three phases are foundational, and consist of (I) preparations for the activity analysis, (II) developing service-oriented mission statements for the functional areas (not easily done), (III) defining the activities for each area. <br />Phase IV is the pivot point during which you develop customer relationships. Customers can be internal customers of the activity or external customers.  In this respect there is a set of classifications that need to be performed for the activities themselves, which are: Real-Value-Added (RVA), which provide value as seen through the eyes of the activity's customer; Business-Value-Added (BVA), which may be necessary to support internal business functions, but provide no direct benefit to the activity's customer, and No-Value-Added (NVA), which are not essential to business functions, nor do they add any perceivable value to customers.  This information is used in Phase V to determine the efficiency of the activity.  It is also worth noting at this point that the what authors call &quot;activities&quot; are processes and process chains, so you may have to either adopt his vocabulary or mentally translate as you read.  This is not a criticism of the book, however, because the approach is valuable and will enable you to classify activities in accordance with their value characteristics and determine if they are optimum for their intended use.  Phase VI entails developing supplier partnerships.  This is applicable to both external supply chain partners as well as internal activities. An example of an internal supplier partnership, taken from my profession, is services provided by IT to end users (usually codified in service level agreements and comprised of service level objectives).  The final phase, VII, addresses continuous improvement.  An added bonus is the CD ROM that comes with the book contains an application called WorkDraw, which is a process modeling tool with many of the same features as Micrografx iGrafx Process.<br />As an IT professional who works extensively on projects for service level management and IT-Business alignment I found this book to be a gem.  In fact, the service-orientation of the &quot;natural work teams&quot; has changed my thinking about how to structure an ideal IT organization, and has also greatly influenced my thinking about how to manage service delivery.  The book earns 5 solid stars and my highest recommendation.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	RHEE13NXHRAKJ	1580530176	207196540	Preparing and Delivering Effective Technical Presentations (Artech House Technology Management and Professional Development Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Complete and In-depth	This is not one of those books filled with pep talks and exhortations to overcome stage fright or thinly veiled Toastmaster &quot;how to&quot;.  It's about the realities of delivering technical presentations as either the speaker or the coordinator of a presentation.  To be sure, it does address some of the basics, such as how to clarify your message with an outline, dealing with hostile audiences, and how to create effective visual aids that reinforce your message.  <br />What sets this book apart, though, is the way the author addresses the logistical issues, which can be a coordinator's nightmare.  The advice given is born of experience and enduring the last minute pressures of getting on a plane to do an unplanned presentation the next morning. As life would have it, such events depend on luck and demonstration equipment or software functioning perfectly. As Murphy's Law would have it, these events age one rapidly.  But the author thoroughly covers all of the issues and factors, including scheduling and logistics and how to coordinate the complexities of preparing the site.  He also goes into minute details of site selection and optimum room layout, audience (and speaker) comfort and safety and coordinating multiple speakers.  Here is an example of the level of detail the book goes into, showing how well thought out the material is: managing speaking events in multilingual audiences or guest speakers requiring translators.  <br />To a presenter this book is valuable; to an event coordinator or road-warrior presenter this book is a jewel.  It covers topics and situations you rarely think of until you've been embarrassed a few times, and is clearly and cleverly written.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	R8VXH0J9WTT6B	0131462261	90357086	Advancing Business Concepts in a Jad Workshop Setting: Business Reengineering and Process Redesign (Yourdon Press Computing Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the best books on an effective &amp; proven technique	Joint Application Development is, in my opinion, one of the most powerful tools available to analysts and consultants for capturing business requirements directly from the source - the business process owners and subject matter experts. This book is among the best I've come across on the subject and is worth the time and effort to track down.<br />What I most like is the way this book stays consistently focused on discovering (and uncovering) *business* requirements to be used as the foundation of information systems and applications.  The book itself is divided into ten parts, each of which builds on the other to form a coherent approach to conducting JAD workshops and using the product of the workshop sessions as input into the requirements process.<br />Parts I through III introduce JAD, its underlying concepts and how they relate to business processes.  Part IV provides guidelines for developing a business solution, while Parts V and VI guides you through the actual techniques and procedures that will be used in the JAD sessions.  <br />After this point the book quickly picks up the pace and goes directly to the heart of JAD by showing how to capture the business vision and manage changes from the sessions as they [inevitably] occur.  It's interesting to note some of the parallels between the approach in Part VI and the Microsoft Solution Framework (MSF).  If you are using the MSF this book will add value to your processes because in many respects the approaches are either the same or complimentary.<br />Parts VIII and XI wrap up the JAD process by thoroughly discussing requirements and specifications, which are the two main products that JAD workshops are designed to capture.  The rest of the book is devoted to skills profiles for workshop leaders, an implementation checklist that is invaluable, and excellent advice.  I particularly liked the workshop templates, which will greatly aid you in setting up and conducting JAD workshops, and the way that the author guides you through the pitfalls that you will encounter when facilitating these workshops.  Follow Mr. Crawford's advice and the time spent in the sessions will be used efficiently and effectively.  Follow the approach in this excellent book and you stand a good chance of capturing the right requirements, and ensuring that they are validated by consensus of all stakeholders.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	R35RIOG4C45GK8	082644833X	374071561	Thinking Visually: Business Applications of 14 Core Diagrams	Books	5	161	163	N	N	Extraordinary tool for writers and analysts	As an IT consultant I do a lot of writing and create a lot of graphics to reinforce my words.  Before discovering this gem my primary graphics reference was Information Graphics by Robert L. Harris, which is a comprehensive encyclopedia of technical graphics.  Thinking Visually will not replace that book, but will augment it because this book is more of a how-to and is focused on 14 basic diagrams that I find myself using in one variation or another in nearly every project.  The book is divided into three parts:  (1) Introduction to Diagramming, which is among the best descriptions of diagramming and how to approach it that I've had the pleasure of reading; (2) APplying the Core Diagrams, and (3) Introduction to Diagramming, which is an extension of Part 1 that wraps up the book with excellent advice.<br />Part 2 is the heart of the book.  The core Diagrams are divided into six groups: (1) MAPPING THE BUSINESS (System Maps, Mind Maps), (2) RELATIONSHIP AND INFLUENCE (Relationship, Tree, Influence), (3) CONTROL IN BUSINESS (Input/Output, Control), (4) CAUSATION (Multiple Cause, Fishbone [also called Ishikawa], Sign), (5) CHANGE (Force-field, Window), (6) FLOW (Flow, Ring).<br />Many of the diagrams have multiple instances. For example, flow diagrams can take the form of flow process, blocks, algorithms (flow charts) or network diagrams. Likewise, window diagrams take on many different forms, including strength/weakness/opportunity/threat (SWOT), quad matrices (such as the &quot;Boston Matrix&quot;).   This extends the 14 core diagrams into many more because of the variations, with all of the major ones discussed in this book.<br />What I especially like is the way the author presents each diagram: overview of the diagram, business application, business purpose and summary and conventions.  When variations are discussed, such as a critical path network diagram derived from a flow, the same treatment is given.  <br />As I read through this book familiarizing myself with these basic tools I discovered that my primary software tool, Visio, contained stencil sets for many of these diagrams, including Mind Mapping, SWOT Fishbone and many more. I also liked the final part of the book because it contains valuable advice on managing information with the core diagrams - especially developing diagrams that convey information instead of resulting in information overload.  The chapter on diagramming theory and some of its pitfalls was also excellent. Finally, Appendices A and B, only two pages, are incredibly useful because they map the core diagrams to themes (Appendix A) and to management activity (Appendix B).  These make selecting the right tool for the right job easy, and their inclusion is a nice touch of added value.<br />I cannot praise this book highly enough.  It has quickly become one of my most valuable tools and has also enlightened me on a number of issues and factors related to effectively selecting and using diagrams. It merits 5 stars!	2001-08-15
US	46194801	R3GA6SS9NPVEJS	0875846327	409588717	Value Migration: How to Think Several Moves Ahead of the Competition (Management of Innovation and Change)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A whole new way of thinking for me	I normally do not read business books of this book's scope; however, it was recommended by my co-author for an article on which we were collaborating.  Our challenge was to support the assertion that the U.S. software industry is being supplanted by India, and a shift in off-shore development resources from the U.S. consumer to Indian provider is actually moving to Indian consumer to Russian and Egyptian providers.  This is obviously value migration in its truest form and is consistent with the ideas set forth by Mr. Slywotzky in this book.<br />Using the inflow-stability-outflow model that is one of the basic paradigms in this book, we developed a model upon which we were able to build a case supporting our assertion.  More interestingly, the whole concept and numerous case studies that reinforce it throughout the book provided me with a deeper understanding of the macro and micro issues of value migration - this was eye-opening.  <br />My favorite chapter is at the very end of the book. Titled, &quot;Five Moves ... or Fewer,&quot; it showed how major companies captured or recaptured the biggest share of value available, and each of the examples involved five or less moves.  I was personally fascinated.  <br />Although my initial reason for reading this book was to research an article, it has changed my way of thinking on a number of levels that go well beyond a single-topic research project. The writing style is clear and engaging, and the concepts and ideas ring true.  I am giving this remarkable book 5 stars and highly recommend it to anyone who wants to see a bigger picture of economics or develop a keen business strategy.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	R2XANW8K67XVAI	0201721929	996542608	mySAP.com Industry Solutions: New Strategies for Success with SAP's Industry Business Units	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Catalog of industry intelligence	You need not be a SAP R/3 consultant to benefit from this interesting book.  In fact, I am not an R/3 expert and have little direct experience with the product.  My motivation for reading this book is to better understand ERP in general as it applies to various industry segments, and SAP R/3 and PeopleSoft in particular because of a consulting assignment.<br />Before reading this book I was under the mistaken impression that SAP R/3 was inflexible and required any company implementing it to completely redesign their business processes to accommodate the software.  In many respects this is true.  However, SAP has a tagline that &quot;All Industries Are Not Created Equal&quot;, which means that a generic solution enforced by an application is not a real solution at all.  Using this book I discovered two things:  (1) SAP R/3 is a lot more flexible than I heard and can be highly customized using industry-specific solution maps to a number of industries, and (2) the market challenges of the 20 industries covered in this book.<br />What I like is the consistent way each industry if presented, using a fixed format that discusses each industry's market trends, requirements and solution maps.  As a consultant who works across a wide landscape of industries I was able to quickly absorb some of the characteristics of each industry and their key challenges, as well as see how an ERP solution fit within them.  Of course, learning about how SAP as a product supports these industries is also useful, and I suspect essential to consultants and constancies focused on this particular product.<br />The book is a quick read, informative and definitely a worthwhile investment to anyone who is involved in ERP in general and SAP R/3 in particular.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	R3PLULN3RLEBRH	0814405487	240398519	Effective Competency Modeling and Reporting (With CD-ROM)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Vaulable resource for HR and non-HR professionals	One of the most challenging tasks I undertake as an information technology (IT) consultant is developing organizational models that are designed to optimize IT service delivery to the business process areas that IT is chartered to support.  Often I have found myself crossing boundaries between IT processes and the domain of expertise owned by HR.  Ultimately HR is responsible for reviewing and approving my findings and recommendations, so this book is especially valuable in that it has enabled me to see the problems and challenges through the perspective of HR.  <br />Among the unique perspectives that this book has provided me are:  (1) there are vast differences between organizational and individual competencies.  Both aspects need to be carefully examined before a viable solution that meets organizational and individual needs can be crafted.  This is especially important for IT consultants because the workers remain in high demand and retention in the face of aggressive recruiting has to be factored in or your IT corporate knowledge and skills will migrate to competitors.  (2) Determining whether the goal is quality or excellence.  They are two different things and the definitions are hard to pin down.  For example, is customer satisfaction a quality or excellence goal?  In IT it can be both.  (3) The fact that competency can be modeled and measured.  Prior to reading this book I went on past experience and narrowly focused books such as IT Organization by Kern, Galup and Nemiro.  While that book addressed IT organization from IT's perspective, it was missing the techniques and processes used by HR professionals.  As such, the competency modeling and reporting (CMAR) process and associated techniques in Effective Competency Modeling &amp; Reporting have enabled me to approach my analysis in a manner that is consistent with HR practices and produce findings and recommendations that an HR professional will understand.<br />Some of the other strong points about thisbook are: (1) it employs a coherent process that is augmented by software tools (Competency Coach® for Windows, whish is also provided on the CD ROM accompanying the book - the version that comes on the CD ROM has a limitation on the save function); (2) step-by-step procedures for performing competency modeling, (3) assessment procedures used to measure your results.  In addition, the book includes a sample 72-item model that covers common competencies, a sample position standards spreadsheet, a sample skills-based assessment instrument and other files and artifacts that add considerable value to this book.<br />Bottom line:  while this book is aimed at HR professionals, the information and approach provided is not limited to HR. As a reviewer who is not an HR professional I rate this book at five stars and give it my highest recommendation.  I suspect HR professionals will do the same.	2001-08-15
US	46194801	R30ZG8RH4CEK25	0471121754	444612273	Disaster Recovery Planning: For Computers and Communication Resouces	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Project approach &amp; comes with a wealth of extra material	I like this book because it's a structured introduction to disaster recovery planning.  I used this book as one resource when writing a whitepaper on recovery management, and found that the structure of the book and project-driven approach allowed me to identify and clarify key issues. While there is nothing new in this book with respect to disaster recovery planning, the way the subject is presented makes this book valuable.  <br />Among the key strengths of this book that I particularly like are: (1) the ten-step project plan will give anyone who is tasked with developing a disaster recovery plan a clearly defined roadmap, (2) checklists and forms that support each stage of the project plan are included on the accompanying disk, making your job a lot easier (most of them will require extensive tailoring, but the format and key content areas are valuable), and (3) the author drills down into detail in every project stage, which provides even more guidance.<br />If you're tasked with developing a disaster recovery plan and don't know where to start, or are validating or reviewing existing plans, but are not a disaster recovery expert, this is an excellent resource.  It earns 5 stars for making a complex subject understandable, providing a clear plan and for the wealth of forms and checklists that come with it.	2001-07-11
US	46194801	R1RYJJMIJYFHXJ	0729903265	869277574	Key Performance Indicators Manual: A Practical Guide for the Best Practice Development, Implementation and Use of Kpis	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Invaluable resource and tool	Key performance indicators (KPIs)are measurements of how well you are meeting goals or objectives that have been identified as success factors for strategic and tactical initiatives. There are two ways KPIs are used:  (1) to determine to what extent critical success factors are being met if your approach is strategy-&gt;critical success factor-&gt;KPI, or (2) as to quantify goals if you are using the Goal-Question-Metric framework.  In either case, identifying the right things to measure and how much (or little) of whatever it is you're measuring is an indicator that you're meeting your targets is the difficult part.<br />This book has three parts:  (1) an introduction to KPIs, and an 8-step approach to developing them, (2) exercises for working through the 8 steps, and (3) a facilitator guide.  The third part of the book is a welcome addition because any process that is going to produce KPIs (strategic planning, process improvement or new initiatives) is generally a collaborative effort with stakeholders who may or may not see the big picture. This is especially the case when you're trying to develop and get consensus on what key performance indicators are valid in a cross-functional or enterprise-wide effort.<br />The eight steps themselves are straightforward and are provided within the context of a framework of Initiate/Build/Implement/Review.<br />INITIATE consists of three steps: (1) align the KPI development with any other activities that are affected by the specific initiative, (2) set the purpose for the stakeholders who will be involved in KPI development, (3) obtain consensus on how the KPIs will be developed, which is where Parts 2 and 3 of this book show their value).  BUILD is comprised of steps 4 identify critical success factors, or in the case of the Goal-Question-Metric approach, identify the questions, and 5, select the KPIs or questions. IMPLEMENT is performed in steps 6, which is the development of reporting and review frameworks, and 8, using the KPIs as an enabler for performance improvement; i.e., refine them as needed.  REVIEW is a single step, 8, which is a continuous monitoring and refinement of KPIs, as well as monitoring to ensure that they are still valid.<br />This is an excellent resource to support group planning and decision making.  It's well-written and clearly presented.  I especially like the inclusion of Parts 2 and 3, both of which will allow you to use this book as a meaningful tool instead of a &quot;how to&quot; guide.  Highly recommended.	2001-07-11
US	46194801	R33U4X4BTUBN8S	0130850837	765190676	Creating High Performance Software Development Teams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Short, to the point and filled with info	This is the second book I've read (and reviewed) by Mr. Ginac.  He is a master at packing a maximum amount of information and wisdom into books with minimal page counts.  This requires real talent on the author's part and I, for one, appreciate it when I can improve my professional knowledge with a book that can be read in one sitting.<br />This book is about project management, development processes and leadership, all of which are interwoven into seven succinct chapters. The parts of this book that I especially liked are: (1) The sensible and business-oriented approach to requirements in Chapter 1.  This is a recipe for success and encapsulates some of the best practices I've come across in a single short chapter.  (2) The focus on team building and leadership that is given in Chapters 2 through 4 and 6. I've endured poor leadership and have had the pleasure of working for some of the best in my 25 years of experience, so I have a good feel for what works and what doesn't.  These three chapters capture all of the good examples that have taken me a quarter of a century to discover, and provides some of the best advice and guidance you'll find in any book.  (4) The chapter on planning, like the others, distills into a few short pages some of the best advice a project manager or team leader should carefully heed.  Like the body of the book, the appendix is rich with information that is crammed into a short page count. <br />I'm obviously a fan of Mr. Ginac, due in no small part to this book.  If you read this one and want more I highly recommend that you read Customer Oriented Software Quality Assurance, which is also short, informative and well written.  5 stars for this one!	2001-07-08
US	46194801	R3GZ91L0I9FF0M	0890064806	232423425	Business Process Implementation for IT Professionals and Managers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Interesting multi-layered approach	This book is a comprehensive blueprint for translating business processes into applications to enable those processes.  The author approaches this challenging and complex undertaking by framing the blueprint within the context of the development life cycle.  <br />A few key items about the approach:  (1) it's based on data and models, which is a correct approach in my opinion, (2) it fully supports component-based architectures, which in turn, promote reusability, and (3) it does not end with release - the author addresses post-deployment issues.<br />The heaviest emphasis given in this book is on modeling, which depends greatly on requirements management and validation.  I especially like the emphasis given to business rules because I believe them to be the best way of documenting and expressing requirements.  The reason for this is business rules are expressed in a logical manner and are elicited directly from the intended users.   Moreover, well expressed business rules are testable, which means that verification and validation can begin early in the life cycle of an application or system.  However, business rules are but one aspect of the approach - the author prescribes an integrated set of models (process, scenario, role, workflow) that enable you to capture the business process being automated from a number of views that will be integrated into requirements and specifications, and translated into the application which will support it.  I also like the fact that important milestones, such as test and release to production, are accounted for in the approach.<br />As much as I like this approach, I am not sure that many organizations will adopt it in its entirety because of the numerous competing methodologies that have found homes (at least in name and lip service) in larger companies.  It's the larger companies that typically embark on projects of the magnitude described in this book.  However, even if the entire approach is not adopted, many components of theauthor's approach can certainly be adapted to fit within any methodology.  Also, some of the boutique consulting companies might find this approach useful because if it's followed with a strong commitment to *completely* perform in accordance with the author's methods it can be used as a differentiator in a competitive bid.	2001-07-08
US	46194801	R34V3198KGLXT1	1580531652	362956626	How to Run Successful Projects in Web Time (Computing Library)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Lives up to its title - highly recommended	This book is a condensed, fast paced approach to managing projects.  Don't be misled by the title into believing that the theme is about managing web projects - it's about reducing the cycle time involved in initiating and managing projects, and the steps you need to take in order to ensure both speed of delivery and overall success of the project. <br />The approach is presented in informal style.  I actually felt as though Mr. O'Connell was mentoring me through a project.  He starts with a discussion of project management in general and some key issues, such as how much planning is enough, ensuring the project is valid and cost-effective, and setting scope. When he moves into the planning stage of the project he starts off with a work breakdown structure (WBS). I definitely like this approach because, in my opinion, any planning that does not start with a WBS is doomed to almost certain failure.  He also covers estimating, and who should be doing it.  Again, I'm in complete agreement with his advice that the best estimators are the people who will be doing the actual work.  He also covers risk management, schedule optimization and all of the &quot;due diligence&quot; steps a good project manager would accomplish.  Project execution and control is treated in the same methodical manner as planning. All of the key items are addressed, such as continuous monitoring and schedule refinement, resource allocation and status reporting.  In this section the methods Mr. O'Connell proposes are reinforced with a week-by-week description of an example project.  This adds a lot of credibility to how approach and also makes learning project management from this book relatively easy.<br />There is much to like about this book:  Mr. O'Connell's engaging writing style, a sensible approach to planning, scheduling and controlling projects that leaves nothing out, and the worked examples that are provided in every chapter.  Most importantly, though, is the fact that the book lives up to its promise of showing you how to run *successful* projects in web time, because the approach that is presented contains no fluff, and eliminates a lot of rework or lost efficiency by doing the right things the right way - the first time.	2001-07-08
US	46194801	RVK8OZGAE6YP5	0890068658	767568961	Practical Guide to Software Quality Management (Artech House Computer Science Library)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Blueprint for 'building' a quality organization	After I finished reading this 259-page book I kept thinking of how it was organized and how the author presented the material.  Although I have been exposed to, and worked within, quality frameworks throughout my 25-year career this book triggered a clarity that brought together the essence of an effective quality program.  This happened when I drew an analogy between the book's contents and approach, and constructing a building.<br />First, the book starts with a chapter titled &quot;Elements of a Complete Software Quality System,&quot; which is the foundation.  It then covers what I think of as the building blocks: standards, reviews, testing, defect analysis, configuration management and software documentation.  It then fills in gaps, much like mortar, by covering associated quality concerns.  Each of these &quot;building blocks&quot; and the &quot;mortar&quot; are thoroughly discussed in separate chapters.  The actual construction comes in the final chapter titled &quot;Quality System Implementation&quot;.<br />This book is copiously illustrated and the writing is straightforward.  Although my analogy may be somewhat distracting, nothing in this book is - each chapter stays focused on its topic and goes into considerable depth.  The author provides you with a solid foundation, quality materials and a blueprint for creating an effective quality organization, and does so in 259 pages.  This book earns five stars for the influence it had on my thinking, and has my highest recommendation.	2001-07-07
US	46194801	R30HZI28CSB86B	1880410230	787121584	A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK Guide) -- 2000 Edition	Books	5	91	95	N	N	Necessary for PMP exam - CD ROM version is convenient	I found having the PMBOK in Adobe Acrobat format to be a real convenience and prefer it to the paper version.  Note:  while you can download a copy of this document from PMI's web site, it's a preview version that is missing chapters 2, 4-12 and appendices A through F.  Therefore, if you need a copy of the PMBOK 2000 version your options are to purchase either the CD ROM or the book.<br />PMI has put a lot of work into this version.  Compared to the 1996 version this one reads better, shows clearer relationships between knowledge areas, and has been greatly expanded in some of the knowledge areas - most notably risk management and earned value project management.  The CD ROM version that I am reviewing has additional refinements that make this media easier to work with. The 1996 version in electronic format was a collection of standalone Adobe Acrobat files, this version is a single Acrobat file that makes good use of Acrobat's navigation features.<br />If your reason for buying the PMBOK 2000 is to prepare for the Project Management Professional certification you have two choices:  CD ROM or book, because this is the primary source of test questions.  Heed the previous reviewer's comments that the 2001 examinations will also use the 1996 version as a basis for test questions.  If you are buying this book to implement project management processes that conform to the PMBOK and work in the computer industry I recommend that you also look at Information Technology Project Management by Kathy Schwalbe. That book presents a project management approach for IT projects that is closely aligned to the PMBOK.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	R2ZVHGOYL8SBM5	0273649434	570858604	Taking Control of It Costs: A Business Managers Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly readable and filled with excellent information	My reason for reading this book was to get some ideas about how to control IT costs from an asset management point of view that I could incorporate into a comprehensive set of processes to be integrated into contact center management.  Contact centers, also known as IT help desks, usually employ software that manage problems.  The more sophisticated software also includes modules for service level management, change control and asset management.  Taken together these form the foundation of service delivery and support - both of which are costly.  <br />As I read through this book I began to gain a wider view of how to go about analyzing service delivery and support costs through a systematic analysis of cost allocations.  The three IT expense health checks in chapter 2 were immediately useful because they addressed key performance indicators that show how well costs are managed, the impact standardization has on controlling costs, and the importance of gaining control over physical assets (this is directly related to my original reason for reading the book).  Another gem I gleaned from this book is the fact that fixed costs are like a shell game - there is an apportionment of fixed costs, which are finite and driven by a budget, among functional areas.  The trick is to make sure that the budget for fixed costs is apportioned in accordance with the importance of the areas to which they are targeted.  Also interesting is the premise that budgets should be based on a mix of short- and long-term initiatives, which is different from common practice in that too often budgets are allocated to initiatives strictly based on priority or perceived importance.<br />This book deals with strategy as much as cost control, which is logical since both have some obvious relationships.  Here too the book contained some excellent advice, the most sensible of which is that methodologies are not as important to a strategy as understanding the strategic issues and building an integrated team.  This applies to both projects and operations, and should be carefully considered by anyone who rushes out to buy the latest tools (most of which lock you into a methodology) before thinking through the real goals and objectives. The two appendices were invaluable resources for reviewing accounting principles and giving a complete cost breakdown structure that is typical of most IT organizations.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	RVTEW35NKAM19	0967446058	778493933	Get Smart : The Emergence of Smart Cards in the United States and their Pivotal Role in Internet Commerce	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Filled with amazing facts and rich with possibilities	Prior to receiving this book as a gift the sum of what I knew about smart cards was: I had one in my GSM cell phone that allowed me to switch to a new phone by removing the card from my old one and inserting it into the new one (a major convenience because my friends with CDMA and TDMA cell phones had to jump through hoops).  I also knew my access card to the building in which I worked was a smart card that contained a lot of information about who I was, when I could enter the building and to which areas I could access, and I had seen Sun's Blade 100 workstations integrated smart card reader that identified and authenticated users and allowed them to move from one workstation to another and resume their sessions.  <br />After reading this book I feel like a whole new world of possibilities have opened. First, Chuck Wilson, the author is a talented writer who possesses the ability to make a rather mundane subject fascinating.  He starts with a history of smart cards and proceeds to show how versatile these devices are.  I quickly learned that smart cards are much more than a security device or convenient way to carry a lot of data in a small form factor the size of a credit card.  For example, the possibilities of these devices as an alternative to credit cards where debits can be made using the logic on the card itself is mind boggling.  It doesn't take a leap of imagination to see how a smart card could one day replace cash.  Of course there are some hurdles that must be overcome, and Mr. Wilson provides a thorough discussion of them and some of the ways that they can be overcome.  A surprise was the growing use of smart cards outside of the United States and some of the reasons why they are slow to catch on here.  <br />Among the chapters I enjoyed (probably because I'm such a geek) were: chapter 3, which delved into the technology and chapter 6, which focused on security with respect to e-commerce.  This chapter gives a clear description of the underlying security infrastructure.  I also enjoyed chapter 8, which covered biometrics and how smart cards could be used in conjunction with that technology to provide a high level of security.<br />It's been a long time since I've read a technical book that was fun to read, informative and addressed business and technical issues.  More importantly, though, is how applicable smart cards are to information systems from the standpoint of security and an enabler of e-commerce; and their equal importance to business as a means to prevent fraud and provide consumers with a convenient and safe alternative to cash and credit cards.  This book earns my highest recommendation to technical and business professionals and 5 stars.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	R32Z5DUSJFFD8C	1572316217	122701547	Software Project Survival Guide (Developer Best Practices)	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Both classic and contemporary	Computer books written in 1997 are either obsolete or classics.  This one is a classic and a timeless one at that because it gives a straightforward approach to development projects that is consistent with best practices.  Best practices are usually born from lesson's learned from disasters.   While there have been criticisms that this book might not be up to the realities of web development, I believe that the inverse is true:  too many web development projects are initiated before they are properly planned, and are not effectively controlled because of unskilled project managers.  But that's a personal opinion.  <br />What you will find in this book that is applicable to any development project, regardless of whether the goal is a web- or e-commerce-based system, client/server or host-based.  What you get is a structured approach to planning and estimating using proven methods (as opposed to pulling numbers out of thin air), excellent advice on organizing and motivating (and protecting) a project team, and how to manage delivery and release of a quality product.  What I particularly like is the life-cycle framework, the controls provided to manage scope and product integrity and the emphasis on testing, release and quality.  However, much of this can be mined from other books.  What sets this book apart and makes it a classic is the wealth of tips and checklists and the way the author weaves his experiences into the approach.  What makes this book effective is the copious advice given throughout about dealing with politics, people issues and other project and career killers.  This book is about surviving projects and if the advice liberally sprinkled throughout is heeded it will go a long way towards helping you to do just that.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	R2QFDUFFS88WTL	078790063X	213490158	Designing Work Groups, Jobs, and Work Flow (Jossey Bass Business & Management Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Clearly written step-by-step guide	This well organized book focuses on work processes and procedures for designing them.  It does not address the redesign of the underlying processes.  It only touches upon this area, so if you're looking for a book about process redesign I recommend Process Redesign: The Implementation Guide for Managers by Arthur R. Tenner.  Instead, this book treats the subject as a project more than a development process.<br />The book is divided into four sections of which the first two sections cover the context and techniques, with the remaining two providing a case study and a comprehensive list of resources.<br />The heart of this book is Section Two, which is comprised of chapters 2-9 and devoted to techniques for designing work groups and jobs.  It starts with an important chapter that steps you through defining your goals and setting the scope of a work group design or redesign. The techniques for accomplishing your goals are given in chapters 3 through 9.  The techniques are:  environmental analysis (identifying critical goals, demands and constraints), technical process analysis (understanding how the workgroup creates products and/or services),  human systems analysis (how people do their jobs), goal design (matching workgroup goals to environmental demands), technical process design, human systems design and implementation.  Section Three is a single chapter that provides a case study to reinforce the information provided in Section Two.  Section Four is a collection of useful resources, such as a business environment matrix, cycle time analysis and variance analysis worksheets, and other tools that you will find invaluable.<br />Layout and format of this book are excellent.  The good use of tables, step-charts and flow charts make this an easy-to-read and follow workbook as well as a text on workgroup design.  It's a valuable addition to a process designer's reference library and a ready made project plan for a workgroup design initiative.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	R15UEDXH540IPY	0130809020	108144717	Data Warehousing: Architecture and Implementation	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great introduction for technical and non-technical readers	This is a good introduction to data warehousing for business process owners, project managers and service delivery and support professionals.  Like all books in the Enterprise Computing series this one follows the people-process-technology pattern, with a focus on business value.  <br />The authors start by showing how data warehouses fit into the context of IT architecture, and how this relates to fulfilling business needs.  This is followed by a clearly presented section on concepts that will be easily understood by non-technical readers, especially business process owner who are exploring the benefits and advantages of data warehousing.   <br />Scope and complexity of designing, implementing and deploying a data warehouse are discussed in detail in Section II, starting with some excellent material for developing a business case and determining the cost/benefit ratio of a data warehouse initiative.  Information in this section is also useful for planning a data warehouse project because it provides low-level details on roles and responsibilities.  A key point here is the way the project is structured with both technical and business resources.  I like this approach because it involves all of the major stakeholders and IT customers from the beginning instead of the more common practice of waiting until the last minute to involve the business.  This approach will go a long way towards making a data warehouse project a success and ensuring that the business gets what it really needs instead of what IT thinks the business needs.<br />The technology section of this book is an excellent description of data structures, meta data and topics that need to be understood in view of the large difference between a data warehouse and an online transaction processing system.  I learned a lot from this section and appreciated the way the information was clearly presented.  I also liked the fact that the authors included a section on production and maintenance.  Other books stop short of this important milestone in a development life cycle, which leaves a lot of unaccounted for issues.  This section completes the total picture of a data warehousing initiative and sets realistic expectations for the true costs, resources and effort required to implement and maintain a data warehouse throughout its entire life cycle.<br />This is a nicely done book that is accessible to both technical and non-technical readers, and is one of the best resources with which to get up-to-speed on data warehousing without getting bogged down with too many technical details.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	R2TGTQ194IE0AQ	0471392405	62812747	OSS Essentials: Support System Solutions for Service Providers	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Some excellent info, but wanders around in places	The eight chapters in this 610 page book tie together operational support systems and how they relate to network operations, business support systems and network management. In some respects this book is less about OSS than it is about the network, which is evidenced by the structure of the book and page count given to each topic.<br><br>It starts with an encompassing overview of operations, business and marketing support systems. This is entirely focused on OSS, and has one of the best descriptions of a service delivery cycle I've seen in print. This is followed by a chapter discussing a service provider's portfolio of products and services, which sets the context for OSS. Chapter 3, however, seems out of sequence, because it breaks the flow by addressing management protocols - a topic that is peripherally related to OSS, but is not central. The author gets back on track in chapter 4 with a solid, information-packed treatment of customer care and billing processes. Thi!s is the heart of OSS and the author provides some great information, which is continued in chapter 5's discussion of provisioning and order processing. Unfortunately, the author drifts off into network operations management, which is the topic of chapter 6. This is certainly related to OSS, but does not warrant the 74 pages this topic consumes. Chapter 7, covering support, documentation and management systems is really a catalog of products, which eats another 104 pages of peripherally related material that could have better been provided on a companion web site since product-specific information is a moving target and only renders a book prematurely obsolete. The final two chapters covering workforce management and trends for service providers were valuable, especially the comprehensive tables and lists devoted to job profiles and organizational structures.<br><br>Overall this book has a lot of excellent information, most of which is not available elsewhere. However, the aut!hor wanders and driftsinto too much detail on topics that are not central to the theme of this book. Since it is the only book on the market on OSS and does provide a wealth of information I decided to be lenient and award it 4 stars. I hope the next edition benefits from some good editing and focuses on OSS, and the product-specific information is moved to a companion web site the way other publishers handle this time sensitive material.	2001-07-06
US	46194801	RXCYUEMF2G68E	0964600803	861684664	A Guide to the Cmm: Understanding the Capability Maturity Model for Software	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Clearly explains the CMM - best intro book on the topic	If you want a no frills book on the CMM get Mark Paulk's &quot;The Capability Maturity Model&quot;, which is authoritative and written by one of the principal developers.  However, if you want a more readable book that explains the CMM this is the best I've read.<br />This 350-page book  is comprised of five chapters and two appendices.  Chapter 1 covers the basic concepts and structure in clear terms.  Chapters 2 through 5 are devoted to capability levels 2 through 5.  Each chapter covers the key process areas of the level that it discusses and its applicable practices, and ends with a summary view of process assets and relationships between and among the key process areas at the particular level.  There are also exercises at the end of each chapter to reinforce the material and check your understanding.  I like this approach because with 316 practices you can quickly lose track of what's where within the CMM.<br />So why the CMM?  Some claim it's a hindrance.  First, it does not tell you how to run your organization, only how mature your organization is based on key processes and practices that you employ. Your maturity level is indicative of the efficiency (read: cost effectiveness) or your organization and probable quality of  the software you produce.  Those who claim it's a hindrance, I suspect, really lack the discipline and/or leadership to achieve a level of maturity beyond repeatable - if that.  But the underlying reason to pay close attention to the CMM, or at least understand it, is because there is a lucrative business called litigation.  If you find yourself involved in product liability litigation you're going to hear terms like &quot;prevailing standard of care&quot; and &quot;what a reasonable member of your profession would have done&quot;.  Considering the fact that well over a thousand companies world-wide have achieved level 3 or above, and the body of knowledge about the CMM is readily available, you might have some explaining to do if you claim ignorance.  This book will go a long way towards preventing that by at least arming you with the basics - and doing so in a clear manner.	2001-07-04
US	46194801	R3OJUFWDU9XHZR	0471156957	808230087	Standards for Online Communication	Books	5	30	31	N	N	An eye-opening book that changed my approach for the better	The approach outlined in this book has completely changed the way I tackle developing on-line documents.  I have extensive experience in a technique called Information Mapping that is an analysis and document design methodology for paper documents.  In many ways the authors' methods are similar to Information Mapping - at least at a macro level. After reading this book I've gained an appreciation for the vast differences between paper and on-line documentation.  My &quot;paper-based&quot; thinking before this book resulted in a waste of the underlying capabilities of an on-line document.  The authors show how to use technology to vastly improve your reader's efficiency and overall experience when seeking and reading the information you create.  If you are used to writing for paper-based publications, or have deveopled on-line pages using nothing but intuition and judegement, this book will completely change your way of thinking.	2001-07-03
US	46194801	R2W0XKSLGTMP8Q	076001180X	38608287	Information Technology Project Management	Books	4	49	54	N	N	Perfect for the right audience	This book is a truly valuable resource if you meet all of the following criteria:  (1) you are either a Project Management Professional (PMP), which is a certification bestowed by the Project Management Institute to individuals who meet rigorous screening qualifications for education and experience  and successfully pass a comprehensive examination based on the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), or are seeking the PMP certification, and (2) you or your organization primarily uses Microsoft Project.<br />For those PMPs and PMP candidates who use other tools this book will still be valuable, but not to the degree it is for the first group.<br />The book's key strengths are:  it completely adheres to the PMBOK, takes a teaching approach, and starts with a case study that is used and expanded as each of the nine PMBOK process areas are introduced and explained.  This is a powerful approach to teaching because the PMBOK process areas are introduced in sequence and the exercises at the end of each chapter reinforces the material presented in that chapter.  For Microsoft Project users this book also teaches some advanced techniques with that package, and does so in a manner that is wholly consistent with the PMBOK.  Moreover, it takes into account the unique challenges imposed by IS projects.  As an added bonus the accompanying CD ROM comes with a copy of Microsoft Project 2000 that is fully functional for a 120-day trial period (Appendix A also is a quick guide to this software).<br />Weaknesses:  Many IS shops have development methodologies, such as the Rational Unified Process, in place. Although most methodologies, including the Rational Unified Process, can be aligned to the PMBOK this book does not address how to do this in any detail. Another issue is IS in most of the larger enterprises, especially those with mature project management practices in place, use ABT Project Workbench, which is an enterprise-strength project management tool.  This diminishesthe value of this book to readers who are used to the more sophisticated features of tools designed for the enterprise.  <br />This book is an exceptionally well written and designed tool for teaching the PMBOK within the context of IS projects.  If you fall into the primary audience I described above this is a &quot;must-have&quot; book.	2001-06-30
US	46194801	R2EA4AW2ZL0UXX	0873892712	302413410	Information Service Excellence Through Tqm: Building Partnerships for Business Process Reengineering and Continuous Improvement	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Valuable for orgs that do heavy development	After reading the author's &quot;The Power of IT: Maximizing Your Technology Investments&quot; I was sufficiently impressed with his work to track down other books that he had written. <br />This book starts with a 360 degree view of IS by giving the following viewpoints and perceptions: users, bottom line, and from within IS itself. Although this book was written in 1994 it is as valid today as when Mr. Braithwaite wrote chapter 1.  The next chapter is a discussion of TQM, and its main value is to synchronize the author's definitions with our own.  A few topics here were real gems, including managing by prevention, identifying and measuring the cost of quality, and measuring the performance of business processes which IS is chartered to support.  The best part of this chapter the structure and approach for institutionalizing management of change.  Mr. Braithwaite proposes four different groups: (1) management, (2) measurement, (3) education and (4) employee involvement committees.  This approach does ensure that all major stakeholders are involved, and it also will prevent IT/IS from operating in a vacuum.  <br />Chapter 3 is devoted to TQM within IS, but the focus moves to systems development.  I was hoping for a more holistic treatment of IS that also covered service delivery and support, and production. These areas are covered, but only within the context of systems development.  The next three chapters are devoted to incorporating TQM into the systems development process.  Chapter 4 is devoted to establishing TQM, chapter 5 covers TQM initiatives in the requirements definition phase, and chapter 6 addresses TQM in the build and delivery phases.  Chapter 6 has some excellent information on metrics, testing and release to production.  <br />I especially liked chapter 7, which focuses on creating a quality culture within IS. Some of the factors and indicators that Mr. Braithwaite provides in this chapter are worth reading carefully, including staff turnover and the effect on cost of quality, and the TQM implementation model for IS.  I also liked the way the author aligns seven of Deming's principles to IS department management.  This is another area that is worth reading.<br />Chapter 8 wraps up this 141 page book with a discussion of future directions for IS within the context of TQM.  Some of the key points here include: change perceptions [of users and the business] through performance, add value to the enterprise, and formulate a long-term vision.  These points should be mandates for any IS department regardless of whether they elect to implement TQM or not.  <br />Overall this is a valuable book if your organization does heavy development. If your development is limited to light maintenance programming or adding features to an enterprise resource planning application, much of this book will not apply.  If you are in the first group or you want to learn about how TQM can be applied to development, you will find this to be a 4-star book that is worth tracking down.	2001-06-30
US	46194801	R162VRWROUEDFU	0596001223	255742027	Oracle DBA Checklists Pocket Reference	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Great tool - not *just* for DBAs	The checklists in this 80-page guide are both comprehensive and complete. While this book's obvious value is to DBAs (which I'm not), it is also an invaluable tool for a number of other IS/IT areas. Specifically:  <br />*  Change control analysts who need to develop or validate implementation and rollback plans<br />*  Project and release managers who want to scope out and plan the key tasks for upgrades and implementations<br />*  Desktop support folks who install and configure client software<br />*  Help desk analysts who are tasked with developing problem screening and identification checklists.  <br />For the last group the checklists for confirming network connectivity via Net8 can make the difference between misassigning an Oracle Net8 problem to the network group, which only slows the resolution process.  You do not have to be a DBA to benefit from this excellent book.	2001-06-30
US	46194801	RAO2VONWWD0J3	0735709726	125134688	creative html design.2 (2nd Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Perfect blend of art and tech - none better than this	I purchased this book primarily to learn page layout and design, and to become more proficient with working with graphics. I got much more than I bargained for!  <br />The authors have created a perfectly balanced book that will appeal to the artist and geek alike.  I learned more about the artistic aspects of layout and design from this book than I have from a pile of others.  I also received an in-depth education in the technical aspects of creating and modifying graphics, and a large number of techniques for having both graphics and speed - even over a relatively slow modem connection.  <br />Other interesting things I learned while reading this fascinating book are how to effectively use fonts, colors and multimedia.  Other techniques that I learned and quickly incorporated on my web page were Javascript rollovers, effective use of tables and forms.  Before reading this book I though these topics would be difficult to learn.  The clear explanations and procedures given by the authors made it easy. I also learned how to do image maps, which is not hard at all if you follow the procedures outlined in this book.<br />  I strongly recommend this book to anyone from beginner to advanced web page developer because there is something in it for everyone.  The examples on the CD ROM were invaluable, and the tables and references (not to mention tips throughout the book) make this my sole reference and the only one to which I now refer.  Five stars for exceeding my expectations, making the difficult easy, and wonderfully clear writing.	2001-06-30
US	46194801	R3EMH0RNFD2WUB	0750632402	890700853	Prince 2: A Practical Handbook: A Practical Guide (Computer Weekly Professional)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	UK's best kept secret	I rushed out and bought this book after a friend sent me a Visio diagram of PRINCE 2 processes that someone had sent him.  I was intrigued by the interrelationships among the PRINCE processes and the organizational structure of a PRINCE 2 project.<br />What I found between the pages was an eye-opening view of a project management methodology that has been used since the mid-1980s and is the UK national standard.  What made this methodology so eye-opening, aside from the fact that I had never heard of it, is that projects are organized in such a manner that ensure that sponsors, business process owners and the project team are working in a consensual environment with clearly-defined lines of communications.  In my experience, even on well run projects, this is rarely achieved, yet here is a mature, 15-year old methodology that appears to be in wide use outside of the United States that should be heavily borrowed from in the U.S.<br />As I read this book I found one best practice after another that definitely need to be incorporated into projects, especially IS/IT projects, which have an appallingly high failure rate.  Among the practices documented in this book are:  breaking projects into stages and phases (widely known, but unevenly practiced in my experience), basing milestones on deliverables (I've been on too many projects are based on schedules, resulting in 90% complete almost immediately and the remaining 10% takes ten times longer - basing progress on deliverables prevents that sort of sleigh-of-hand), and risk, configuration and change management processes that are totally integrated into the project (something else that's much talked about and abandoned early on, if attempted at all).<br />I personally found the writing style to be a bit obtuse, but I attribute that to the difference between American and British versions of English.  Despite that, this book contains what I consider to be an effective approach to project management, and one that should be adopted on these shores because of the best practices that I cited above.  I am reasonably sure that the PRINCE 2 methodology can be married to the U.S. standard, Project Management Body of Knowledge, without affecting the integrity of the PMBOK.  I strongly recommend that anyone serious about running a project in an effective, smooth manner read this book and incorporate as many practices as corporate politics will allow.  I give it 5 stars and hope we have another British invasion.	2001-06-30
US	46194801	RZ65QE95XJNO5	0201657805	66628356	e-Data: Turning Data Into Information With Data Warehousing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Best in its genre - clear, authoritative &amp; well-written	Jill Dyche has written the definitive book on the business value of information and how it's leveraged by data warehousing. I could wax enthusiastic about this book for the next hour, but will merely state that Ms. Dyche is an excellent writer with a gift for reducing a complex subject into an easily understandable, information-packed 335-page book.  Although every page contained valuable information, here are the highlights as I see them:<br />*  Business value is threaded throughout every page - this book is written for both IS/IT people and business process owners.  Both groups will have no problems understanding every chapter and neither group will get bored.<br />*  The chapters on decision support and the primer on the underlying technology were particularly interesting to me because each are complex subjects and Ms. Dyche managed to present both in a concise manner without leaving out any detail.<br />* Implementation issues provided in chapter 6 should be required reading by every IS/IT professional and project manager before they are allowed within a mile of a data warehouse project. This chapter is filled with advice that could have only been accrued by surviving numerous tough projects and learning from them.  It appears that Ms. Dyche did just that and one would be foolish to not read this chapter carefully.<br />*  Case studies are real, go into a lot of depth and provide an array of insights and ideas.  I recommend that all of them be thoroughly read - there is a lot to learn.<br />* Perils and Pitfalls cited in chapter 9 are brutally honest and hit home.  The same for the &quot;dirty little secrets&quot;, which expose some dumb practices by vendors, IS/IT and other players.  Read and heed.<br />Other things that I personally liked about this book include questions to ask vendors (a list of questions for hardware, database, application, data mining and various tools vendors provided in Chapter 6), and the 5 questions your consultant should ask you (asa consultant I immediately incorporated this information).  <br />This is a book for everyone, business and technical, and is written by someone who is obviously experienced and knowledgeable.  It is also represents some of the wittiest, clearest writing I've encountered in a long time, which makes reading what could have been a dry tome a real pleasure.  The book deserves a solid 5 stars and Jill Dyche deserves congratulations for writing when I consider to be the best book on information business value ever published.	2001-06-30
US	46194801	R3O00XU2LKL9FU	067232055X	969828892	Integration Models: Templates for Business Transformation (Sams White Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Acquired or acquiring?  If so, you *need* this book	I read this book because it was strongly recommended by a friend whose advice turned out to be invaluable.  The approach that Ms. Brown takes is one of the most practical, straightforward I have come across. If followed it will reduce technical, cost and schedule risks that are rampant in application integrations, especially those to which this book targets:  gluing together systems that have been separately developed by two organizations and now have to be merged into a coherent whole when one of the organizations acquires the other.    The seven models proposed each address a unique requirement or situation based on a pattern.  That Ms. Brown has managed to distill integration challenges into seven models is an impressive feat.  It shows the level and depth of her experience, and from what I read in the book, combined with my own experience, she has completely thought this through.<br />One of the most important aspects of this book is that it's balanced between both business and technical considerations, and also embodies the best project management practices.  As someone who takes applications into production and provides support I think that the overall approach set forth in this book also strikes a good balance between integration activities and post-integration support.  It's refreshing to find a book that accomplishes this.<br />This is an important book that serves two purposes:  it is a solid collection of application integration models that should be in the toolbox of all IT/IS professionals whose job entails enterprise architectures or application integration, and it is a clear roadmap for those folks who have just been told that their company just acquired another and the systems need to be integrated into a coherent whole without disruption the business operations of either organizational unit. It serves both purposes exceptionally well. Bravo Ms. Brown!	2001-06-19
US	46194801	R3EMZDER42QLPJ	0873894383	59094989	Business Process Improvement Toolbox	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Succinct description of simple/powerful tools &amp; methods	This is a small, information-packed book that contains a collection of tools and techniques, and an overreaching method.<br />The tools are standard TQM and process improvement implements, and are augmented by forms and templates that anyone who is tackling process improvement can quickly put to good use. These tools are classified by use: problem identification, analysis, brainstorming and consensus, etc.  The author shows not only when, but how to effectively use the tools, and gives clear examples.  <br />The overreaching method that is communicated in this book is: (1) when possible perform improvement activities in parallel, (2) activities that are sequenced can often be improved by examining the sequence and determining if it can be changed to promote greater efficiency (and reduce cycle time), and (3) pay attention to process flow and look for barriers and interruptions that need to be removed.<br />I like this book because it is short and to the point, is densely packed with information (even if a lot of it has been published elsewhere), and the author's approach which is to pay attention to seemingly minor details and perform rigorous analysis using the easy-to-use tools he provides in this book.	2001-06-19
US	46194801	R3FEI5NV6W007R	0130798444	821559673	Business Specifications: The Key to Successful Software Engineering	Books	1	11	13	N	N	Through the looking glass darkly (understanding this book)	A colleague gave this book and challenged me to understand it, and if I truly understood it he further challenged me to write a review.  Since I'm posting a review I obviously understood it.  <br />My first pass through the book was frustrating.  I could not get a sense of what the author was trying to say, even though it sounded important.  Each time I was tempted to admit defeat and toss the book back in my colleague's face some unseen force make me keep reading.  By the time I reached the end I knew less about business specifications than I knew when I first started reading.  <br />I'm not a quitter by nature, so I went back through the book looking for clues that would point me to the elusive methods of business specifications.  About mid way through I had a Zen-like flash of understanding and enlightenment.  I'd figured it out!  The author has skillfully blended the timeless work of the Grimm Brothers, Hansel and Gretle, with the surrealistic writings of Lewis Caroll.  Here are the clues:  like the Grimm Brothers' masterpiece the author drops little facts and ideas like bread crumbs throughout the labyrinth writing to subtly lead you to that supreme moment of Epiphany - understanding how business specifications can be married to object-oriented techniques. In case the reader is too dense to get it, he also draws maps in the form of diagrams.  He fails, however, to explain the symbology in clear terms, and is equally obtuse when it comes to explaining the rules of his notational masterpiece.  This is where Lewis Caroll comes in, and how I discovered the key to understanding this book in the first place.  He litters the book with passages from Lewis Caroll's books.  Not a subtle message, but one that certainly tells you how to read the book.  Think surreal and pretend you are chasing a white rabbit and the quest for gleaning useful information from this book will suddenly have a purpose.<br />As I said, I had a brief moment when the entire book made perfect sense, then, poof, it evaporated and I returned to the real world where I was utterly confused by the author's writing style and intent.  The way I see it you have some options.  (1) Avoid the book.  Frankly you will not miss anything.  (2) Buy the book and when or if your moment of clarity comes and you achieve enlightenment write it down before you forget it - and please share it with the rest of us.  (3) Buy the book, attempt to understand it and, failing that, go ask Alice.	2001-06-18
US	46194801	R3D5KHGGDRY7YB	0873893492	286333310	The Power of It: Maximizing Your Technology Investments	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A business-first approach that is sound and straightforward	Mr. Braithwaite has distilled a business-oriented approach to IT planning and implementation into 150 page book.  The central theme is to ensure that any potential investment in IT technology is thoroughly examined against technical, operational and economic factors.  This approach is straightforward and is aligned to system development life cycle model that is based on the waterfall model.  This alignment is shown in the book's table of contents:<br />Requirements for Quality Information Systems<br />The Principles of Quality Management<br />Prevailing Conditions in the Information Technology Industry<br />Automating the Business Requirement<br />Requirements Definition Phase<br />Alternatives Analysis Phase<br />Design Phase<br />Construction and Integration Phase<br />Inspection and Approval Phase<br />A secondary theme is to examine each of the three factors (technical, operational and economic) using an iterative series of feasibility and trade-off analyses.  The approach is to perform these analyses at each stage of the life cycle, with an emphasis on performing the most rigorous analyses early on in the requirements and design stages.<br />I like this approach because it is a straightforward process, enforces due diligence on the part of decision makers, and focuses on business aspects instead of technology. I'm impressed that the author was able to articulate such a sound approach in 150 pages, and highly recommend it to anyone who is looking for a method of ensuring that investments in technology are business driven.  It earns an easy 5 stars.	2001-06-07
US	46194801	R1KD3UKL7PL271	0873892666	612286857	Mapping Work Processes	Books	5	57	60	N	N	Short and to the point - excellent for beginners	This 89 page book has two things going for it:<br />(1) Logical approach to mapping work processes<br />(2) Clear, concise writing<br />Ms. Galloway's logical approach to mapping work processes is evident from the table of contents, which contains:<br />Introduction to Mapping<br />Select the Process<br />Define the Process<br />Chart the Primary Process<br />Chart Inspection Points<br />Develop Inspection Standards<br />Draw Lines and Arrows<br />Chart Inputs and Suppliers<br />Chart Subprocesses<br />Plan Future Activities<br />She keeps this approach simple and assumes that the reader knows nothing about mapping work processes.  I like the lack of fluff and concise (if not terse) writing that is augmented by over 50 figures and illustrations.<br />If you want to learn how to map work processes this is the book with which to embark on your learning experience. I give it five stars for its clarity and completeness.	2001-06-07
US	46194801	R2CRLB9AIHV0QT	0967826330	214303006	Web Designer's HTML Card Reference Guide	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Simply a great tool for experienced HTML coders	Real women use notepad.exe to do HTML.  Unfortunately, because remembering all of the tags and special characters, even real women need help every now and then.  This quick reference guide is my constant companion when I am hacking away on my web page.  It's well laid out and packs a lot of information in four pages.  I frequently refer to the special characters section, but have also picked up a few tricks from the examples that are crammed into this guide.  It even covers cascading style sheets, making this a wonderful accessory for a geekette.  I also highly recommend &quot;Web Design Color Reference Card&quot; also by Bob Stein and available from Amazon as a companion to this guide.  If you've ever struggled with getting the right color using hexidecimal codes, you'll appreciate the color reference.  Together this HTML reference and the color reference card will make you a genuine MLCMF when it comes to HTML coding.  Five stars and my strongest recommendation.	2001-06-04
US	46194801	R3JRFAOGFSHK09	0201633914	22238135	Process Redesign: The Implementation Guide for Managers	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Comprehensive and full of excellent info &amp; ideas	I got this book based on a friend's recommendation because I was struggling with a process design application called iGrafx Process (also available from Amazon).<br />I learned that there is much more to process design than basic models based on entry, task, validation and exit criteria.  For example, performance measurements and performance efficiency were two areas where this book strengthened my understanding of process design and implementation.  They also and enabled me to effectively use iGrafx Process to its fullest.<br />Other chapters that taught me a lot addressed improvement planning, continuous improvement and process benchmarking.  I was able to immediately incorporate the knowledge gained into processes that I was developing, and it made a significant difference in the quality of my work.<br />The best chapter, in my opinion, was in installing the improved processes. I gained a lot of knowledge and techniques for overcoming barriers and how to objectively measure the degree of improvement.  This was reinforced by material that is provided in the appendices, including case studies and an excellent description of Six-Sigma analysis.<br />Overall, this is a valuable book to anyone who designs or implements new processes, or reengineers existing ones.  Most of my work is new design and implementation, so that was the context in which I read the book. If I were assigned to a reengineering project this would be the first book to which I'd turn for guidance and information.  It earns a solid five stars and a permanent place in my professional library.	2001-05-27
US	46194801	R11YV6Y3837T0P	0471881457	203131737	Dictionary of E-Business: A Definitive Guide to Technology and Business Terms	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bridges technical and technical terminology	This is a handy reference for consultants, IT professionals and business analysts who are becoming overwhelmed by a barrage of new terms.  <br />Reading through the terms and definitions in this book makes it apparent that E-business has little new terminology.  Instead, the barrage of new terms has its roots in the blending of business and IT disciplines that characterize E-business.  Because E-business encompasses both the business and technical domains, it's essential that business professionals learn IT terminology and IT professionals learn a business terminology.  Consultants have to be well versed in the vocabularies of both domains, and are further burdened by the fact that we need to understand the unique vernacular of many different vertical industries.  This book solves that by providing succinct definitions of terms covering a wide landscape of business and technical.  Since E-business is inescapable, this book is a wonderful desk reference to which you'll probably refer frequently.  It's complete and clear, and covers most of the IT terms and many of the business terms you're likely to encounter - at least until new ones are minted.	2001-05-27
US	46194801	R278ZQ8XKU64W1	0932633137	932956298	Exploring Requirements: Quality Before Design	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A classic now and destined to be a classic in the future	This book is a refreshing approach to eliciting and analyzing requirements and has completely changed my thinking.  What I like about it (and how it influenced me the most) is the human-approach that accounts for how we illogical creatures perceive, think and react.  The authors use humor to lure us into a logical way of seeing the world and applying critical thought and a good dose of reasoning to the process.  For the first time I was able to clearly see how difficult it is to effectively communicate, which is key to eliciting requirements, and how perceptions need to be managed. The anecdotes scattered throughout this book made it lively reading (rare for a &quot;technical&quot; book), and the skillful writing and well thought out structure of the book leads you into regions of thought and thinking where one rarely ventures on their own.<br />With 25 years of IT experience, and countless frustrating cycles of eliciting what I thought were firm requirements only to discover that there were still disconnects, I can only say I wish I had read this book years ago.  However, better late than never.  I recommend that anyone involved with eliciting or analyzing requirements read this book.  It will almost certainly change your approach, and will definitely teach you a thing or two about human nature.  I agree with a previous reviewer in that this book will be as valid a decade from now as it is today and the decade ago that it was first written.	2001-05-27
US	46194801	RMD7ME8ORBMYN	0130222984	535189308	IT Organization: Building  A Worldclass Infrastructure	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Some valuable insights and some glaring problems	I had heard good things about this book from both colleagues and clients.  I finally got a copy recently as a reference for peer reviewing an assessment of a proposed IT organizational design for a large Middle East oil company.  This was one of the references I used to verify and validate the assessment findings and recommendations.  Here are the strengths and weaknesses of the book as I see them:<br />* Strengths: There is a wealth of great ideas.  I especially like the way the authors group system administration and DBA functions, and I fully concur with a previous reviewer that this is an excellent practice.  I also like the way the authors never lose sight of the fact that IT needs to be organized in both a cost-effective manner and structured to provide the best possible service in the form of reliability, availability and support.  In fact I compiled a large list of excellent ideas and best practices after combing through this book.<br />* Weaknesses:  It's unanimous - the table of contents bears no relationship to the actual contents of this book.  I blame the publisher for that, not the authors.  Not that the authors are blameless.  I found no coherent structure to the book.  The list of gems I compiled from this book was the result of an arduous process because they are scattered throughout in seemingly random order. However, the biggest flaw I found is that the authors seem to be presenting a point of view based on their experience, with no real traceability to the rich body of knowledge that has been developed.  For example the IT Service Management Forum (ITSMF), which is an international professional organization devoted to promoting standards and best practices in IT service management has a model to which an IT organizational structure can be benchmarked. The ITSMF uses standards and methods from the IT Infrastructure Library Series, which were developed by the British Government (and are available from Amazon), which align service and application delivery and support to IT organization. This &quot;standard&quot; was not mentioned once in the book, which I consider to be a glaring omission.<br />* On Balance: This book has flaws, some small and some large.  It also has some excellent ideas and certainly contains a wealth of best practices.  Despite the weaknesses I mentioned, the organizational structure proposed by the authors is better than what I have seen in practice at numerous clients, some of which are very large corporations.  Also, this book does step up to the plate and address organizational structure head-on.  Most of the books I have read are more focused on IT value to the business.  While these are important, they all seem to sidestep any recommendations for how an IT organization should be structured. So, this book has a lot of value in that respect.<br />* Recommendation: Read this book for the ideas.  However, do not read it in a vacuum.  Compare and contrast the recommendations made with the large body of knowledge on service management and the associated recommendations for organizing IT to support the models that have been internationally adopted.	2001-05-16
US	46194801	R2BETSKC8DMG5P	1930674414	619325107	Microsoft Visio 2000 Quick Source Reference Guide	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great roadmap through Visio's rich feature set - very handy	Visio 2000 is a powerful, feature-rich tool.  Even if you are a long time Visio user (I started with version 4), there are so many features and techniques that you rarely use and that's where this reference card comes in handy.  I frequently refer to it and almost always find the answer to basic questions I have.  True, this will not replace Visio's documentation or any of the excellent third-party books, but it is a lot faster than stepping through Help.  If you use Visio a lot you need this card.  It is also useful to Visio Professional version 5x users.	2001-05-13
US	46194801	R1M7L3KGO7TGB2	1930674449	585292006	Adobe Acrobat 4.0 Quick Source Reference Guide	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Handy and much better than Acrobat's built-in help	Makes finding information about some of Acrobat's more obscure capabilities quick and easy. Some examples:  how to use the article tool, make sure your converted document displays bookmarks instead of just thumbnail views, and how to set security options.  Although I work with Acrobat all the time I sometimes need a nudge to remember how to perform a task and this guide provides it.  Another advantage is it is durable and compact.  I recently moved to Acrobat 5.0 and still find this wonderful little card useful.  You will really like this card if you, like myself, get frustrated with Acrobat's poorly designed help files.  This card pinpoints a lot of information much faster than the Help function in either Acrobat 4 or 5.	2001-05-13
US	46194801	R1U8C7W0WCFWUS	0130128538	888312151	Knowledge Management Toolkit, The: Practical Techniques for Building a Knowledge Management System	Books	5	69	73	N	N	Complete, pragmatic approach and great supporting tools	This book/CD ROM combination is, indeed, a toolkit.  The essence of the book is a four-phase, 10-step approach for capturing and disseminating knowledge, and measuring the impact of your efforts in the form of ROI and other performance metrics.<br />The phases and steps outlined are:  Phase I, Infrastructure evaluation, accomplished by the following steps: (1) analyzing your existing infrastructure (the &quot;as is&quot; part) and (2) aligning your KM and business strategies (to ensure that you are not devising solutions to &quot;non-problems&quot; and/or your strategy addresses real business requirements).  Phase II, KM System Analysis, Design and Development encompasses steps (3) designing the knowledge management architecture and integrating existing infrastructure, (4) auditing and analyzing existing knowledge, (5) building the knowledge management team, (6) creating the knowledge management blueprint, and (7) developing the knowledge management system. Phase III System Deployment entails steps (8) deploying with &quot;results driven incrementation&quot; methodology and (9) change management and cultural considerations. The final phase is Infrastructural evaluation, and is performed with the last step, 10, in the approach, which is measuring results of knowledge management, devising ROI metrics and evaluating system performance.<br />A few things stand out: the approach is laid out and the CD ROM that comes with the book has evaluation forms and checklists that will assist greatly every step of the way. Second, the &quot;results driven incrementation&quot; (RDI) methodology is a sane implementation approach that starts with a pilot and grows from there. This prevents dumping money and resources into a strategy that stalls from over ambition or unrealistic expectations.  Phase I, however, is also a check against unrealistic expectations, so the author's overall approach avoids or mitigates a great deal of risk.<br />I like the approach and tools because they aredirectly applicable to what I do for a living: developing and implementing IT processes in support of service delivery.  Among the tools I use are problem management systems and help desk software.  Most have KM modules (examples: Peregrine, Remedy ARS and SupportMagic).  What most do not have is the straightforward method and associated analysis and implementation tools for capturing and disseminating knowledge.  This book fills those gaps.  Moreover, KM is an essential and usually missing ingredient in project management.  While mature companies capture lesson's learned and make them available to other project teams, more often than not this information is not available and history keeps repeating itself.  The approach and tools provided in this book would go a long way in rectifying that situation in companies that are project-intensive (consulting, ASPs, developers, etc.).<br />KM has matured beyond buzzwords and visions from people who have ideas but cannot implement, into an essential element of organization and process for companies that will survive.  Implementing it is hard work, but this 5-star book will show you how.	2001-05-05
US	46194801	R3KQQ69E2SKTOV	007136188X	87667759	Schaum's Outline of Fundamentals of Relational Databases	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Concise and thorough intro to relational database concepts	This book is ideal for those of us who need to refresh knowledge and skills of relational databases that may have been unused for a few years, or for people who need to understand relational database concepts in a hurry.   <br />It starts with concepts that are essential to understanding relational databases, then introduces you to SQL. If you are working with Oracle you will find that standard SQL and Oracle's SQL*Plus are quite different in that SQL*Plus has a richer set of verbs. Regardless, the intro to SQL is valuable and it provides you with the ability to write queries for real world needs. The examples will work with DB2, Oracle of any other database that will understand standard SQL, making this book product-independent and invaluable.<br />The sections that I especially liked covered normalization and entity-relationship models. These are basic knowledge factors that are essential to understanding relational databases, and are the heart and soul of the book.<br />This book's value is that it's straightforward and presents a lot of material in a short number of pages.  It is not for non-technical people in my opinion because the writing is sparse and terse.  However, if you have an understanding of data or want a fast refresh this book will save you time by cutting through the fluff.	2001-05-04
US	46194801	R2WGY5JGYYP890	0787950815	349999453	002: Continuous Improvement Tools, Volume 2 (Practical Guidebook)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful and portable idea book and reference	This slender little book is a handy desk guide that covers some important continuous process improvement tools.  It gives a quick &quot;how to&quot; for the following tools that are the foundation of CPI: Tree, Pareto, Sequence Flow, Process Flow, Scatter, Run, Control and Histogram.<br />Granted, the run and control charts would merit a book unto themselves, but that misses the point of this book - it's a handy reference and idea book that takes up little briefcase space for consultants or desk space for anyone who is involved in CPI or measurement and analysis of any kind.  I take mine with me when I am working on projects at client sites, and have found it invaluable when I am developing processes and procedures because it gives me ideas when I am writing the measurement sections of those documents.<br />I give it five stars for clear descriptions packed into a slim book and its thorough coverage of some of the most important tools available to a CPI practitioner or consultant.	2001-05-03
US	46194801	RLM737QNZNBY2	1929065493	226642846	Achieving 100% Compliance of Policies and Procedures	Books	5	27	27	N	N	TQM-Based approach to implementing and ensuring compliance	This book is one of the most eye-opening, practical and insightful books I have read in a long time. It's one thing to write effective policies and procedures, it's quite another to implement them, and more difficult still to ensure compliance.  The author's approach addresses the implementation and compliance challenges head-on.<br />The key strength of this book is the continuous improvement approach.  I am familiar with the TQM Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle because I use a similar approach called Entry Criteria-Task-Validation-Exit Criteria (ETVX)when I am developing processes that are governed by policies and executed by procedures.  What I had not thought of before reading this book was how to best implement and enforce policies and ensure procedure compliance.  This book showed me how to superimpose the PDCA or ETVX cycle on communicating, measuring and continually refining policies and procedures by starting with writing policies and procedures that can be measured.  I found the 40-step plan provided in this book to be straightforward and easy to manage.  Do not let &quot;40 steps&quot; deter you because the steps are small and build upon one another. This is reinforced by a case study that completely illustrates how the 40-step plan is applied to a realistic example.<br />How to implement your policies and procedures is covered in the chapters on communications and training strategies, which are exhaustive and filled with tips and guidance. These chapters are fleshed out with a chapter on creating a review and communication control plan, which is essential for keeping your policies and procedures up-to-date and ensuring that they are living documents that are meaningful to your organization.  Outdated policies are often ignored, which is worse than having no policy at all.  Ignored policies undermine authority, which is the foundation of a policy. Outdated procedures can result in technical and cost risks at best and unsafe working conditions at worst.  Thenext chapter on establishing a compliance plan is excellent.  It incorporates measurements and validation, and shows how to develop and use the compliance plan.  This is augmented by an invaluable chapter on developing self-assessment checklists, and how to evaluate the results of an assessment and how to rectify gaps.<br />Among the most valuable (to me) chapters in this book were:  preparing an organization to be receptive to change (a major implementation barrier), conducting audits (key to compliance assurance), and conducting continuous improvement activities (keeping the policies and procedures relevant and aligned to changing requirements and business imperatives).<br />The information and approach given in this book will make the difference between policies and procedures that are &quot;shelfware&quot; and those that provide real guidance and are meaningful to an organization.  I personally think this is one of the most important books on the topic, and the only one that I have come across that actually shows how to implement them and ensure compliance.	2001-05-02
US	46194801	R1RUCYDRAHNUXR	0201709368	723689607	B2B Application Integration: e-Business-Enable Your Enterprise	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Balanced, clear and comprehensive - essential information	Mr. Linthicum has given us a gift in the form of a book that thoroughly covers the technical aspects of B2B, and shows how it is vastly different from more traditional methods of application integration.<br />If you carefully read and assimilate the information contained in this book you will have a clear path laid out for moving from older architectures that use EDI, point-to-point integration and other partial integration schemes to a true B2B architecture that is glued together by an encompassing middleware layer and driven by business events.  <br />Here are some of the key areas of the book that made a deep impression on me:  the clear definition of B2B application integration and what it entails, a wide survey of methods based on their orientation (data, interface, method, portal and process), and the balanced discussion of both middleware and integration standards.<br />Strengths and weaknesses of the oriented methods described in this book are particularly invaluable because the author shows the choices and trade-offs of each choice as an integration strategy.  He gave the same comprehensive treatment to middleware strategies.  I especially liked the discussion of integration standards because until I read this book I had the impression that XML was *the* way to extract data from databases, transform it into a common format and promote a standard for communicating among trading partners.  Mr. Linthicum discusses the strengths of XML, but wisely warns against trying to make it do everything.  Sort of like the adage that when all you have is a hammer everything looks like a nail.   <br />The thrust of this book is transforming existing systems into an integrated application infrastructure that will fully support the notion of awareness of business events across all applications.  This is a daunting task for architects and integrators who do not have a clean slate with which to design a ground-up architecture.  The author addressed the fact that we have to livewith that in which we have made heavy investments and proceed from there.  This is done in the appendices that show how to integrate SAP R/3 and PeopleSoft into a cohesive B2B architecture.  These examples are excellent choices with which to illustrate how it's done because they are realistic examples as opposed to contrived examples of &quot;ideal&quot; situations that other books show.<br />This book is for architects and IT technical strategists, and for those of us who have technical backgrounds and need to fully understand the technologies and imperatives that are springing up around us.  Mr. Linthicum is an engaging writer who packs an incredible amount of information and wisdom into this 408 page book. It easily earns 5 stars and my highest recommendation.	2001-05-01
US	46194801	R9ZMPANA1843I	0471972088	369437705	Requirements Engineering: Processes and Techniques	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Great introduction to requirements engineering	This book is broken down into requirements processes and techniques, which makes an ideal reference for companies that are implementing requirements engineering, for consultants who are developing and implementing requirements processes and procedures for clients, and for individuals who are seeking to improve their professional skills.<br />I like the way this book starts with a frequently asked questions (FAQ) about requirements.  In my experience requirements and the processes and techniques that are associated with eliciting and analyzing them are not clearly understood. Too often requirements spill into design, and this part of the book will show you what a requirement is and what it is not.<br />The requirements process models covered in this book are complete, and serve as a complete life cycle of a requirement from elicitation to analysis, validation and management.  Some strong points about this approach include the need to test requirements, as well as to manage changes as they are refined.  Moreover, the authors' approach to constantly assuring traceability is a mature practice and the key, in my opinion, to effective requirements management.<br />Part two of this book covers the requirements engineering techniques that are the &quot;moving parts&quot; of the processes.  Some are outdated or cumbersome, such as Structured Analysis and Design Technique (SADT), while others are interesting, such as Viewpoint-oriented System Engineering (VOSE).  Some highlights of this part of the book include: definition of non-functional requirements (another grossly misunderstood aspect of requirements management), interactive system specification approaches and transitioning to object-oriented design.  I also found the case study at the end of the book both useful and interesting.<br />I think this book is an excellent starting point for understanding requirements engineering. It covers a wide range of methods and does not advocate any particular methodology, which makesit valuable for generalists who do not want to lock themselves into a single way of managing requirements.  The processes provided are excellent and complete.  I recommend this as a first book on requirements engineering because of its unbiased and straightforward treatment of this discipline.	2001-04-25
US	46194801	RDMVIYLGQ5LYQ	0471363669	351043454	AntiPatterns in Project Management	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Will add wisdom to your approach	You can acquire knowledge and skills from being shown how to do things right. You can also gain a lot from other people's mistakes. I learned project management the right way with a book titled Visualizing Project Management. It gave me the techniques with which to build experience. This book, Anti-Patterns in Project Management, gave me wisdom.<br />As I read this book I could not help but cringe because just about every anti-pattern discussed reflected what I had seen or endured (or inflicted in some cases) during projects.  What I took to be business as usual, and attributed to human nature, turns out to be worst--but common--practices.  I am sure that anyone who has managed or performed on a project has seen the same practices time and again.  What makes this book valuable is the fact that the authors show you how to rectify these bad practices, and they do so with humor and a practical approach.<br />My favorite set of anti-patterns addresses the people part of the equation because, in my opinion, people are the root cause of failed projects.  Why?  People indulge in politics, have personal agendas and are too often assigned to responsibilities without any requisite experience or skills.  Sound familiar?  Also, &quot;people&quot; select the technologies and develop and implement the processes that are covered in the other two groups of anti-patterns.  Learn from the anti-patterns provided here and you are well on your way to transforming a project from a nightmare into one that will be successful. Of course, the process and technology anti-patterns discussed will probably be as familiar as the people ones, but they can be resolved once you take the authors' collective advice about how to deal with the people-focused anti-patterns.<br />Not only does this book give you sound advice on how to turn the anti-patterns into best-practices from which PM patterns can be based, but they reinforce this with an appendix that lists project management best practices.  The contrast between these and the anti-patterns themselves will anchor your view of project management as an endeavor to which &quot;good&quot; patterns can be applied.  Another chapter I particularly liked is titled &quot;AntiPattern Collisions&quot;, which is the PM's worst nightmare.  This is when anti-patterns combine to become problems from hell, and reflect the complex nature of any process.	2001-04-24
US	46194801	R39SW6OGTW72QC	0195135326	755582395	Information Graphics: A Comprehensive Illustrated Reference	Books	5	63	70	N	N	Dramatically improved by graphic communication skills	I have an array of powerful graphics tools ranging from Microsoft Excel's rich charting add-in, to Visio Professional and Harvard Instant Charts. Despite my technical skills that allow me to quickly produce just about any kind of chart or graphic imaginable, I was never such how to select the best graphic or chart to convey information in the most efficient way before I got this book.  <br />This book is a catalog of ideas and a guide for selecting the best possible way to display information in graphical format.  Now, instead of floundering around playing with two or three ways to graphically depict information I turn to this book and pick the most appropriate graphic type.  My ability to communicate has dramatically improved because now that I have confidence that I am using the optimal method to display information I find myself using graphics not only more effectively, but more wisely.  <br />Prior to this book my graphics tools were implements that more often than not produced inappropriate charts, giving credence to the adage that &quot;A fool with a tool is still a fool&quot;.  Since this book I now use my software tools like a skilled craftsman who has the perfect blueprint.  With 450 pages of illustrations that show how to depict information visually in the best possible way this book is my perfect blueprint.	2001-04-24
US	46194801	R3BV0H1GHUKHD1	0137203845	294577360	Practical Software Metrics for Project Management and Process Improvement	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Easy read, valuable desk reference and metrics resource	I was introduced to Mr. Grady's work when I borrowed a copy of Software Metrics: Establishing a Company-Wide Program.  Where that book interwove a storyline into metrics and how they support mature process improvement, this book is more like a desk reference.  Mr. Grady has divided this book into two parts:  tactical metrics, which are project-oriented, and strategic metrics which address process improvement.  <br />The first part starts with a collection of practical rules of thumb for software managers. This collection of heuristics covers every phase of the development life cycle and are backed up with data gathered during 125 software projects at Hewlett-Packard.  An example of one of these rules of thumb is that you will find 1 defect after software has been released into production for every 10 defects caught during testing. This, of course, is purely empirical, but is an interesting rule that I mentally filed away. Some highlights of the first part are: a good introduction to the goal-question-metric approach to determining what to measure based on your objectives, and a focus on project goals of maximizing customer satisfaction while minimizing project schedule and costs, and product defects.  This is followed by chapters that address each of these goals.  One of the best chapters in the first part of this book is work analysis. While I am more focused on the service delivery side of metrics (after the project has produced something that has been released into production), some of the metrics were very valuable to me - especially the ones that revolved around testing and QA.<br />Part 2 is squarely in my domain - production and application support, and service delivery. The best chapter, Dissecting Software Failures, was one of the most insightful descriptions of the defect life cycle I have ever read. It fully addresses defect data collection and analysis, and how to use this data to effect process and product improvement.  Even better is the chapter on investing in process improvement.  Here Mr. Grady gives a workable approach to using the defect data to developing a business case for process improvement. He guides you through developing a plan, selecting from among an array of solutions, and case studies.  <br />This book is a quick read. It's main value lies in the many tables and facts provided on nearly every page.  I use it as a desk reference, especially the appendices that summarize defect origins, types and modes, and metrics definitions.  It spans both project and production metrics, and is as valuable to project managers as it is to application support professionals.	2001-04-22
US	46194801	RD7S6BQY7IZKG	0684844745	630261672	If Only We Knew What We Know: The Transfer of Internal Knowledge and Best Practice	Books	5	20	22	N	N	An effective approach for consultants	I think the best recommendation I can give for this book is to show how it has helped me.  As a consultant one of my biggest struggles is efficiently extracting information from clients.  Although this book is about finding, aggregating and disseminating internal knowledge, the approach has proven invaluable to finding where my clients' pools of knowledge are and using this to efficiently craft solutions that are based on best practices that have been developed by my clients. I have too often dscovered that my clients have best practices and other knowledge artifacts that are not known throughout their organization.  <br />An example of how difficult organizational knowledge is to ferret out is shown by one consulting engagement where the client needed problem management processes. All of the &quot;identified&quot; stakeholders and points of contact claimed that there were no written definitions of severity levels, which are an important part of the process.  After developing a complete set of definitions and circulating them for stakeholder review out of the blue an unidentified stakeholder emerged and produced a set of definitions that was written years before. Had I read this book before this particular engagement I would have approached it differently and would have identified the *real* stakeholders and pools of knowledge using the cultural enabler of knowledge transfer described in chapter 9.  I would have also saved a significant amount of billable hours to the client in the process because what they already had (but just didn't know they had) met their exact requirements.<br />I gained a whole new perspective on analysis from this book.  I now approach this task by identifying (or eliciting) value propositions from clients, and employing to the extent allowed by each consulting engagement the four enablers of knowledge transfer.<br />This book woke me up to some refined techniques and has influenced my thinking and approach on a number of levels.  While it provides organizations with a valuable tool set with which to find and collect the valuable knowledge within, it is also a valuable tool for consultants who are always under pressure to gather data and information from clients as a prelude to findings and recommendations. I cannot emphasize strongly enough its value to both audiences.	2001-04-21
US	46194801	R2V9HC64M2Y3C0	0471391875	176309699	Technical Support on the Web: Designing and Managing an Effective E-Support Site	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Ms. Czegel produces another winner for the support community	Ms. Czegel has produced another 5-star winner with a badly needed book on providing technical support using web technology. This book is more focused on internal IT web-based support vs. product support for call centers. It does address product-based support for external customers, but not in the depth or detail that internal help desks are discussed. While help desks and call centers employ many of the same processes and tools, there is a world of difference between the challenges, goals and objectives of the two.  One of the key advantages of using web-based support internally is initial troubleshooting tools, knowledge bases and other self-help aids can be made available to preempt support calls.  Both IT and the business win if the user can resolve his or her problem without opening an issue.  Another big advantage is when a ticket is open users can track the progress of getting their problem resolved.  This goes a long way towards aligning IT services to business requirements and improving customer satisfaction.  <br />As in her other books Ms. Czegel begins with an examination of business factors and a discussion of how web-based technical support has evolved quickly to what she calls a third-generation model.  I like how she sums up the business factors with a compelling discussion of the business benefits, including an example cost-benefit analysis.<br />The second chapter gives a roadmap for site creation and management. It provide a comprehensive list of necessary tasks that can be used to develop a work breakdown structure and project plan. It segues into the next chapter on establishing the scope, and leads you through the foundation of defining your goals and business expectations. Scope includes possible services to provide through web-based support, and which services are the most cost-effective to provide. I liked the examples, provided in tables, that rank requirements and the resources required to satisfy them.  Ms. Czegel next addresses staff selection, providing roles and responsibilities and the necessary skills to move to web-based support.  This information is valuable to help desk professionals because there are major differences between traditional help desk requirements and those of web-based support organizations.<br />Functions, tools and implementations are covered in great detail and is must reading because web-based support brings with it specialized tools and requirements that will leverage a traditional help desk's tools to provide self-help to users.  Because this book does touch on product support to external customers I felt that the lack of content management and change control tools was a notable gap.  These are important to internal and external support, but are far more critical when you are dealing with external customers because out-of-date technical information or the wrong software for download can seriously detract from your company's image (or worse).  If your focus is product support to external customers I recommend augmenting this book with Customer Service on the Internet by Jim Sterne. <br />Designing your site is briefly covered with good advice; however, the heart of this book is process and implementation, and site management.  Ms. Czegel thoroughly covers all issues and gives valuable information using tables, checklists and examples.  These two parts of the book are essential to implementing and managing an effective web-based support function.  I especially liked the metrics and examples given.<br />Summary: web-based technical support is one of the most effective strategies to improve the level of support to customers using self-help and other preventative measures to reduce issues.  It also gives users an ability to track their open issues, which improves their level of satisfaction as well as reducing follow-up calls to the help desk.  This book provides a clear roadmap to defining a web-based support strategy, and its implementation and management. As far as I know there is no other book that addresses this subject for internal IT help desks, making it all the more valuable.  If you are a help desk manager who is either exploring web-based technical support, or are in the process of implementing it this book with save you much grief because it lays out what needs to be done from business case development to daily operations.  If you are currently supporting users with web technology the site management chapter will provide you with excellent advice on how to efficiently manage web-based support.	2001-04-20
US	46194801	R12QMGFTUMQIJ	0471197122	465792703	Manager's Guide to Distributed Environments: From Legacy to Living Systems	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great for managers and mainframe types making the change	As someone who spent 24 years in &quot;legacy&quot; environments and who is now in the distributed world I found this book to be some of the most complete guides in print to making the transition.  <br />What I really liked about this book is how the authors skillfully blended the descriptions of technologies in the distributed world with the methods and approach that characterize the &quot;legacy&quot; world. This is because distributed computing has a lot to offer from a technology point of view, but management of distributed systems lags behind the &quot;legacy&quot; world.  My move was a lot like migrating from a predictable world of methods, processes and procedures to the wild west. <br />Some of the specific highlights were:  very clear description of client/server systems and the underlying components. I personally gained a lot from the discussions on object technology, building distributed applications, and building extensible systems. The latter was especially useful to me because it exposed me to COM, Java and XML, and how these fit into the picture.  Coming from a world where the standard buzzwords were CICS, JCL and the such I needed to fully understand the world in which I now work, and this book gave me an understanding of the technical underpinnings and their strengths and weaknesses.<br />Where this book blends the &quot;legacy&quot; and distributed worlds is in the chapters that deal with managing distributed systems.  I gained two deep insights from this section: (1) managing distributed systems is a quantum leap in complexity from managing host-based systems, and (2) the processes and tools used to manage today's distributed systems have not reached the maturity of those that we used twenty years ago in the mainframe world.  The authors did an excellent job of pointing out the challenges and realities of distributed systems management, and did a wonderful job of tying this to service level management using core business objectives as the bridge.<br />This book is truly a manager's guide that covers a lot of ground in technology and processes.  It is too high-level for hand's-on technical folks who have worked in distributed environments, but is a wonderful source of information for people like myself who spent most of their career in mainframes and need to evolve into this wild environment called distributed computing.  I enjoyed the book, gained a lot from it and recommend it to my former colleagues who are still in the &quot;legacy&quot; environment.	2001-04-19
US	46194801	RM5VWFBPA37SQ	1931332096	517359002	Information Security Policy Manual (With CD-ROM)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Valuable Resource - well thought out and clearly written	This book is probably the most valuable resource in my professional library.  My only regret is that I did not have it a year ago because it could have saved a substantial amount of money on two consulting assignments.  The first assignment was developing policies, processes and procedures for managing a CLEC's (competitive local exchange carrier) data center facilities.  Much of my research was focused on a number of topics in this book.  I could have literally shaved 80 hours off of the research and policy development tasks had this book been available.  The value?  Based on my hourly billing rate to the client, which is a multiple of the price of this book, the savings would have been significant.  The second assignment was developing recovery processes for a national wireless carrier.  In this case I could have saved over 200 hours of research and writing had this book been handy.    <br />Some of the policies in this book are somewhat out of date, such as system sign-on screens and printing and distribution of reports.  While we still sign onto systems these days, the policy for that area seems more applicable to terminals.  And while there is still a lot of printing done in this so-called paperless world, it is done on an ad hoc basis and not centrally managed. On the other hand, a simple rewrite aligns even the most archaic policy statements into ones that will meet modern needs.<br />Among the best policy statements in this book (and on accompanying CD ROM, which saves even more time) are:  application ownership (this can also be linked to service level agreements), computer room access (too often overlooked by security staff trying to shore up their Internet exposures), off site storage (when was the last time you saw a formal policy on that?), data ownership, and record retention/disposal (this is one that will send you on a frantic search through legal databases). Each of these policy statements are well thought out and clearly written.  <br />I personally think that, page for page, this book is one of the best values you will find if you need to develop an internal corporate security policy, or you are a consultant doing this for a living.  The fact that it also comes with a CD ROM and documents in electronic format makes this an even better value.  I strongly recommend it and will never be without it.	2001-04-13
US	46194801	R2F6N2RBIYUKI	0471376418	876613450	Enterprise Application Integration: A Wiley Tech Brief	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Perfect intro to EAI - some technical knowledge needed	After 24 years in mainframes and a year as a consultant in the much more complex world of distributed systems I wanted an introductory text on EAI that addressed the technical aspects, but was not filled with an overwhelming amount of details.  This book was a perfect introduction to EAI for me.  <br />As a service delivery consultant I was very interested in the chapter on business drivers because my job is to align IT to business processes, so the discussion of business drivers from the perspective of EAI was something I could immediately use.<br />The integration approaches were familiar territory based on my background, but some of the approaches provided were unique twists that I had not encountered.  What I really liked was the chapter on architecture building blocks because I was able to see clearly what it takes to design, develop and implement an integrated enterprise architecture.  I also liked the way the authors presented messaging and transaction architectures.  I was vaguely familiar with messaging architectures from my IBM days (MQSeries), and a lot more familiar with transaction processing monitors and approaches. These two chapters showed me how to apply my existing knowledge and experience to understand EAI architectures.  <br />This book gave me a good understanding of EAI in general, including the technical and business aspects.  It went neither too deep nor too shallow.  I am not sure how suitable this book will be for business managers because it gets pretty technical in places.  It also is probably too high level for someone who has EAI experience.  However, for someone with a technical background who wants to see EAI's &quot;moving parts&quot; and how they fit together it is perfect.	2001-04-13
US	46194801	R1Y6KJL4MMI26V	0760071519	442047058	A Guide to Help Desk Technology, Tools and Techniques	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A complete compendium of what's available	I like this unique book because it is a survey of the tools and technologies that support help desk operations.  What makes it unique is it is, as far as I know, the only book that solely addresses this aspect of the help desk.<br />Prior to reading this book I depended on the internet and vendor literature to research appropriate tools to solve problems or make operations more efficient.  Often I have a vague idea where to look, but no exact starting point. This book helps to do more focused searches that return accurate and meaningful results.   Why do I still searches?  Because some of the tools described are in a state of flux as are any product. Therefore, some of the information in the book may be obsolete, but the real value is that it points me in the right direction, and allows me to go to the vendor sites and get the most up-to-date information. The grouping of tools also allows me to extend my research into competitive comparisons. Equally important is this book also clearly explains the underlying technologies and how they can be employed and integrated into the help desk suite of tools. Another strong point is the author has grouped the tools into classes that fit a particular need, such as event management (under the heading of alerts and notification tools), call management software, etc.  This is a great help.<br />The classes of tools were interesting and complete. I was happy to find asset management tools, and more than pleased to find tools for tier-2 and -3 support.  These support layers are often ignored in more books that deal with any aspect of help desk operations, and the inclusion of them here was an expected bonus.<br />While the book focuses on tools and technologies, it also has some chapters that cover processes and space planning.  This information is a bit out of synch with the general theme, but does provide a context for how the tools and technologies are used.  <br />This book is invaluable to any consultant who deals with servicedelivery or help desk implementations because it is like a catalog of available tools and technologies that can be applied to many different aspects of help desk operations.  It will also prove valuable to companies that are evaluating available technologies in preparation for launching a help desk operation, or are in the process of selecting tools or technologies with which to improve existing help desks.	2001-04-12
US	46194801	R34W69DCWWSTE4	0760072620	900201623	A Guide to Customer Service Skills for the Help Desk Professional	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Excellent advice on the basics	This book addresses the essence of support - people skills.  State-of-the-art tools and technology, and the most efficient processes ever devised will not guarantee a successful help desk or technical support organization if the human interaction techniques provided in this book are not used.  <br />Ms. Knapp provides every essential skill in a systematic order. She starts with an excellent, astute discussion on the key elements of achieving customer satisfaction, then begins the systematic process of describing how to develop and use the necessary skills for achieving this goal.  This starting point is the most basic skill that is as important to our everyday life as it is to customer satisfaction: listening.  This is also a skill that, regrettably, most of us need to continually work on.  She gives excellent advice on how to be an active and empathetic listener, and also how to effectively communicate back to the speaker.  This skill is reinforced with another that is essential to providing top notch customer support: telephone skills.  A telephone, even with the growing trend toward e-support and electronic mail, is still a help desk (and call center) professional's primary tool.  Because we cannot depend on facial expression or body language it is of the utmost importance to not only have good phone skills, but to also use these skills in conjunction with listening skills to &quot;read&quot; the customer's mood and adjust our approach accordingly.<br />Writing skills, the next basic skill that Ms. Knapp addresses, has always been important.  This is because documenting issues and actions conveying this to other support professionals who may also work on an incident of case cuts down on unnecessary follow-ups that poorly written documentation causes.  Also, this skill is rapidly growing in importance because of the increasing use of e-mail as a customer communications vehicle.  The tips on writing given are excellent.<br />Difficult customers are a way of life.Someone who is frustrated enough to pick up a phone or who feels resentment towards the organization whose products or services you are supporting is going to want to take it out on the first person who answers the phone.  Defusing these situations and refocusing angry customers on the issues instead of emotions requires real skills and the ability to subordinate your own emotions.  Ms. Knapp gives excellent advice on how to handle irritated customers and, believe it or not, turn the experience into one in which the customer comes away not only satisfied, but a good reference for your product or service. This is one of the most valuable parts of the book and my personal favorite.<br />The remainder of this book covers problem solving (and prevention) techniques, team building and some great advice on how to relieve stress and keep from burning out.  All in all, this is an excellent book that should be read by help desk and call center professionals (as well as tier-2 support analysts), and can be effectively used as a training outline by help desk and call center managers.	2001-04-12
US	46194801	R1BBEV9DZRZ9Z1	0130198447	757768011	eCommerce: Formulation of Strategy	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Required reading for IT professionals too!	My expectations from this book were twofold:  (1) gain insights into the business value of e-commerce so I could have a fuller understanding of how my role as a service delivery consultant fit into the bigger picture, and (2) see the implementation strategy from the business process owner's point of view.  This book fully met my expectations and provided further insights that I did not expect.<br />An an IT professional my point of view is different from the intended audience of this book and this is reflected in my review.  First, this book provided my with an opportunity to observe the business forces that drive the systems that I support.  I gained a good understanding of the business imperatives, as well as the challenges that the business face when developing an e-commerce strategy.  From this I gained an appreciation of how the projects that IT initiate are first conceived and was able to see the direct link between these projects and how they ultimately relate to business objectives.  These insights are valuable and inspire me to seek ways to better align my domain, service delivery, to business goals.<br />I also gained a much greater understanding or the many faces of e-commerce, such as the unique requirements of business-to-customer as contrasted with, for example, business to business.  From my vantage point prior to reading this book it was just a collection of applications and interfaces.  After reading this book I see beyond the technology itself to the real purposes and their associated goals.  <br />This book also contains information that is directly applicable to my profession.  The ownership issues and e-strategy leadership chapters gave me a clear view of who the real stakeholders are, which is of the utmost importance to service delivery. This information sparked some ideas about support strategies and other issues that I need to consider with respect to e-commerce systems from an IT perspective.  Equally important is the chapters on the roll out strategy, which is a space where I have a definite role, and the scorecard approach to measuring the effectiveness of an internet strategy.  The latter gave me some clear ideas about how to align IT service delivery to business stakeholders in the e-commerce domain.<br />In my opinion this book is as applicable to IT professionals as it is to business process owners and decision makers.  It gives the business side a clear understanding of the factors and issues that go into an e-commerce strategy, and an approach to developing and implementing the strategy.  It gives the IT professional some unique insights on that drives the requirement to develop and implement e-commerce systems and shows areas where we can add value to the process and help assure a successful implementation.	2001-04-12
US	46194801	RE3LA617HW72J	0787948047	217067699	The Flawless Consulting Fieldbook and Companion : A Guide Understanding Your Expertise	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Some real keys strong client relationships	This book is a wonderful resource for consultants, business systems analysts and business development managers who are in the service and solutions business. This audience is encompassing in that consultants will find a wealth of advice and knowledge on how to successfully execute and deliver within the context of the entire engagement cycle.  The value this book brings to business systems analysts who work internally for a company is the approach that ensures a close working relationship with their customers. Business development managers will gain some deep insights about how to properly initiate an engagement after the business is won and ensure that what was promised during the sales cycle is actually delivered during the execution of the project or delivery of services.<br />The book starts with one of the most important topics to each audience member: contracting. I gained a lot from this section because, while I am a consultant, my services are &quot;sold&quot; by business development managers and I am not very close to the contract process.  What I learned here will help me to help those who keep me busy to continue doing so.  I have a newfound appreciation for what is involved in getting me placed on projects and assignments.<br />I thought the highlight of this book was the implementation strategy.  If you are a consultant you know that this is probably the most critical step in the whole process because it sets the tone for how the rest of the project will go. The adage about first impressions could not hold more truth than in this aspect of consulting (internal or external), because this is where the rubber meets the road so to speak.  The approach proposed by the author is not only sound, but refined and will ensure success if followed.<br />Another section I particularly liked is the discussion of ethics.  This is an issue that looms in the background and is thoroughly interwoven into our existence as consultants.  The problem is that we are faced withethical decisions almost every day, and are sometimes tempted to cross into grey areas and use rationalization. The solution is to take to heart the author's guidelines and advice and always be conscious of the fact that successful consulting requires a strict, unwavering commitment to a strong code of ethics.  Personally, this section was a wake-up call that filled me with resolve to place professional ethics above all else.<br />Overall this book provides clear guidelines for delivering customer value and crafting a close, mutually beneficial relationship with clients. The emphasis on close communications and client interactions within the framework of a strong implementation approach and ethical dealings makes this book a &quot;must read&quot; by the audience I cited above.  I strongly recommend it and give it 5 stars.	2001-04-12
US	46194801	R2SQCBRX2ED0Z	0471248169	786678511	Running an Effective Help Desk, 2nd Edition	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Covers every detail, including some missed in other books	This thorough book provides a clear roadmap to designing, implementing and operating a help desk.  The author leaves no key process out and completely covers everything from initial concept to measuring support effectiveness and process improvement.<br />Ms. Czgel starts with an initial strategy that is focused on planning help desk services that are completely aligned to requirements and are based on a mission statement.  This business-oriented approach is refreshing and will keep IT grounded in the real reasons for a help desk.  More importantly, in my opinion, is the process that she proposes for careful selection of services to provide.  My experience has shown that an overly ambitious set of service goals will kill a help desk implementation early in its life by offering a too much before there is a stable help desk process in place.  As such, Ms. Czgel's approach is realistic and lays the foundation for a success implementation.  I especially liked the use of customer profiles and the emphasis on roles and responsibilities early in the planning process. <br />The section on the actual design of the help desk structure provides insights and information that can be applied to a large number of solutions.  Since help desks will be organized in accordance with requirements and unique mission statements, this section of the book is like a catalog of patterns.  I liked the excellent tips on how to best structure the help desk to meet requirements and mission.  The information on accurately estimating staffing requirements is consistent with industry best practices and something that, believe it or not, is often overlooked when help desks are established.  I also found the chapter on consolidating help desks valuable because this is a common project that many companies face.  The advice given is sound and well thought out.  Since my job is service delivery consulting this entire section was particularly valuable.   Part three of the book gets into the meat by thoroughly covering the processes that are essential to running a help desk.  Most of this material is not new or much different from what other help desk books provide, but there were a few topics that stood out as both unique [to books of this genre] and reflect best practices by the best-run help desks. Examples are change control, disaster recovery and vendor management.  These topics show that the author not only considers business alignment, but also cross-functional alignment within IT.  <br />Professional resources and underlying technology are provided in part four.  In the first chapters the author points out sources of standards, best practices and other support, such as the Help Desk Institute, Software Support Professionals Association, etc.  In the final chapters she provides a clear explanation of how technologies such as ACDs (automatic call distributors) and IVRs (interactive voice response) equipment work and how they can provide additional efficiencies to a well-run help desk operation. The author also provides good coverage of tools and techniques that will make help desk operations responsive to user needs as well as support internal IT processes and procedures.<br />This book wraps up with an in-depth coverage of operational requirements for the help desk once it has been implemented.  It hits all of the critical success factors, such as performance metrics, service level agreements, communications and internal evaluations. I particularly liked the chapter on marketing, which is something that is important but not often done be most help desks. This proactive approach to keeping users (your customers) informed of new services, accomplishments and tips is excellent and will go a long way towards attaining high customer satisfaction scores - not to mention proving the value of the help desk to IT and business management.<br />As a service delivery consultant I found this book to be one of the best for planning and implementing a world-class help desk.I personally gained a lot of knowledge from it, and it reinforced some of my past experiences and accomplishments.  It earns 5 stars and my highest recommendation.	2001-04-10
US	46194801	R2W9AXEQ9BYXOL	0471319929	352147371	Help Desk Practitioner's Handbook	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Another winner from Ms. Czegel - this focuses on people	This is the second book I have read by Ms. Czegel (the first was Running an Effective Help Desk).  Where the first book leads you through the help desk planning, implementation and operations process, this one focuses on the people issues.  My experience has shown that the best help desk technologies you can buy, and problem management processes you can develop and implement are worthless if you don't take care of the people part of the equation.<br />Ms. Czegel jumps right in with roles.  She systematically goes through the various roles a help desk analyst must assume.  The ability to switch from one character or personality type to another that is the hallmark of a truly great analyst gives you some keen insights into why there is an epidemic of burnout and high turnover among support professionals.  Aside from this insight, it also shows you what to look for in candidates and gives you a good foundation for coaching and training. It also gives you some ammunition for getting their pay and bonus structure aligned to the high stress the job casues.<br />As in her other book Ms. Czegel never loses sight of the business side and part two of this book gives an intelligent description of help desk stakeholders and their unique needs based on their level in the organization and how their functions intersect with the help desk mission and objectives. The next two sections cover issue management processes and procedures and help desk technology.  Some of the material is close to what is in her other book, but is not identical.<br />The remainder of the book duplicates a lot of the material in Running an Effective Help Desk, but is excellent if you only buy one of Ms. Czegel's books. A reason to buy both, however, is the different focus of each and some expansion of topics in each book.<br />Overall, I like this book a lot and gained much from it.  I came away with an appreciation for and empathy with those thick-skinned folks who staff help desks. I also came away with some good ideas about how to motivate and train help desk analysts and design processes that make their life easier.  I highly recommend this book and give it 5 stars.	2001-04-10
US	46194801	R37FLHPUDBBTZ	0787951730	405018423	The IT Consultant : A Commonsense Framework for Managing the Client Relationship	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Filled with practical advice - will ensure client satisfacti	If ever there was a book that puts consulting into perspective it is this one.  In the Spring of 2000 I left a 24-year job in mainframe operations to join a national consulting firm as a service delivery consultant.  My first few months were filled with disorientation that led to self-doubt and an attempt to fit into a new world.  Had I read this book before the move my transition would have gone a lot more smoothly. Now that I have successfully established myself in the world of consulting I find that my new profession is a blend of being a technical expert and customer relationship facilitator.  This valuable book focuses on the latter set of skills, which are not easy to acquire, and has given me insights and knowledge that will foster my continuing professional growth.<br />If you are new to consulting or considering the move to this profession the first three chapters will show you what to expect and what you need in order to &quot;make it&quot;.  <br />Chapter 4, on negotiating the client/consultant relationship, provides some of the most valuable advice I have come across.  This is the essence of consulting and something that every consultant needs to master in order to be successful (which is another way or saying &quot;survive&quot;). Ignore this chapter at your peril. <br />I thought the approach given in chapter 5 on visualizing success, communications and change was excellent.  If chapter 4 gives you survival skills, this one adds polish to your approach and further guarantees your success in delivering and executing.<br />Chapters 6 and 7 cover areas not only important to consultants, but also to internal project teams. Understanding the situation (and requirements) is the key to developing a solution that is completely aligned to needs and expectations. I do disagree with the recommendation to develop an &quot;as-is&quot; model in all situations, however.  If you are developing and implementing a new process or resolving a seriously broken existing process the &quot;as-is&quot; step adds little value in my experience.  I reserve this approach when the engagement calls for process improvement.  On the other hand, the data collection methods and discussion of surveys were highlights that I liked very much. I also thought the entire treatment of the design process was excellent and provided a clean, methodical approach that will fit nearly any kind of consulting engagement. The lead-in to collaborating with the client on solution selection in chapter 8 is a powerful strategy - it will ensure that the client participates in the process. You will find that this approach will result in client buy-in and satisfaction - two things to which we all aspire to achieving. This strategy is fleshed out in chapter 9 on delivering the solution. There are some important key areas covered here as well. I liked the emphasis on managing quality and the advice on knowledge transfer to the client (which doesn't always go smoothly because it is not always adequately planned).<br />The rest of the book is on developing consulting skills and covers the full spectrum of things to consider.  Some highlights that I got a lot from were troubleshooting the consulting relationship (a reality of consulting that I did not need to deal with the first 24 years of my career), and the blueprint for personal development. As consultants we are viewed as the &quot;expert&quot; and are always under pressure to produce results.  As such our ongoing professional development is extremely important and this chapter offers excellent advice and a set of clear guidelines for accomplishing this.                     Finally, the appendices contained additional information that any consultant will find invaluable.  While I had no direct interest in the sample RFP or proposal provided in appendices A and B, I did find the sample communications plan in appendix C and project plan in appendix D very valuable.<br />This book is full of ideas for consultants and will also serve internal business analysts and project managers well with the wealth of advice and practical approach.  It has measurably influenced my thinking and approach and has given me a clear path towards improving my skills and knowledge.  I highly recommend this book and give it 5 stars.	2001-04-10
US	46194801	R3K8ABGB24WTG7	1558606653	953305415	Developing E-Business Systems & Architectures: A Manager's Guide	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Clearly written overview of a complex subject	I read this book to get up-to-speed in the systems and architectures that provide the underpinnings of e-business.  I am neither an e-commerce specialist nor a systems architect, but felt the need to understand the basics.  Until this book I searched in vain for one that could do a reasonable job of explaining such an encompassing and potentially complex subject. <br />What sets this book apart is its business focus and the fact that it was obviously written for managers who need to see the big picture without getting caught up in technical details.  <br />The first four chapters focus strictly on the business issues and provide some good information about how to develop a workable e-business strategy. I like this because the author puts business imperatives and process before technology, which is as it should be.<br />Chapter 5 steps you through some of the major systems and subsystems that comprise an &quot;e-business&quot; system.  Despite the technical nature, the author does not stray far from business issues.  This, in my opinion, is big plus.<br />Architecture is covered thoroughly enough for a solid overview in chapters 6 and 7.  I personally gained a good understanding of system architectures in general and e-business architecture considerations in particular.  More importantly, although the author went into increasing levels of detain and delved into some areas in the deeper end of the technical pool, I was able to follow the material.  This is a tribute to the clear writing, excellent use of illustrations, and the author's personal talent for explaining complex topics in an understandable manner.<br />The remainder of the book addressed the transition to e-business from business process and technical architecture points of view.  While I found this chapter interesting, it did not grab my attention like the previous seven chapters did.  However, the material is valuable.<br />My goal of gaining an understanding of e-commerce systems and architectures at ahigh level was met thanks to this book. The book itself exceeded my expectations by making the learning experience easy through the author's engaging writing style and fast paced presentation of a lot of material in a relatively short book.  It earns five stars and my highest recommendation to anyone looking for a readable book on the topic.	2001-04-08
US	46194801	R27LUE68BPQH18	0135714648	564479329	Customer Oriented Software Quality Assurance	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Full of ideas for service delivery professionals	This information-packed book taught me more about software quality from a service delivery point of view than I thought possible. I knew before reading it that it was not a typical SQA book, thanks to the previous reviews and a colleague's recommendation, so my expectations were set accordingly.<br />What I liked most about the book is the consistent focus on metrics that are meaningful to business users.  While I was aware of many of the quality attributes discussed, I learned a few new ones to which I can apply to measuring the quality of applications that are delivered to end users. If you are unfamiliar with the term &quot;quality attribute&quot; it is a term that also means &quot;desirable characteristic&quot;, and can be expressed as a technical characteristic (function or feature) or a service-oriented characteristic (quantified reliability, mean time between failures, etc.).<br />Another thing that make this book valuable to me is part that focused on developing questionnaires and eliciting from end users what they deemed to be quality attributes.  This goes a long way towards aligning the IT/IS service delivery function to actual business requirements (instead of what we perceive to be business requirements - too often there is a wide chasm separating the two views).  Moreover, extending the author's approach by communicating these quality attributes backwards into the application delivery organization that is responsible for developing applications, the ability of IT/IS to align to business requirements is further strengthened.  Bear in mind that the flow down of quality attributes does not have to go to an internal development organization.  Applications delivery also encompasses software vendors and consultants doing on- or off-site programming, as well as service bureaus and ASPs (application service providers).  In the case of external sources of applications, the quality attributes are invaluable--no, essential--to the RFP, negotiating and contract stages of procuring and supporting the application.  The value is that quality attributes are an objective way of expressing requirements that can be measured.<br />This book is must-reading for anyone who provides application support, including tier-2 support, business analysts and production services management.  Although it is less than 210 pages in length, it contains a wealth of information that will lead to ideas and strategies for delivering better service and for more closely aligning IT/IS to the business.  The only thing I did not like about the book is the &quot;Software Quality Assurance&quot; part of the title.  Had I not been fortunate enough to have a friend who practically insisted that I read this book I would have never considered this gem.  It rates five big stars by living up to the &quot;customer-oriented&quot; part of the title and for opening my eyes to some important concepts.	2001-04-08
US	46194801	R39P8678R3RCE2	0750638117	621173916	How to Manage the IT Helpdesk: A guide for user support and call centre managers (Computer weekly professional series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Packed with great info &amp; an easy read - recommended!!!	This small book contains a wealth of information and advice that is packed into less than 300 pages.  It covers an incredibly wide range of topics that help desk professionals need to know. With a relatively low page count and the amount of topics covered the author demonstrates excellent writing skills by packing each paragraph with relevant information.  <br />The book is divided into six parts, each with numerous short chapters and case studies. I found this organization to make for easy reading. Among the gems that I particularity liked are how the author defines business goals early on, the description of a typical support structures and support scenarios.  Other highlights, in my opinion, are:  Part 3, Service Level Management, which is one of the most concise treatments of the subject I have had the pleasure of reading; Part 3, Workload Management, which contained excellent ideas on prioritizing and managing jobs, metrics and reports and processes.  This is excellent material. I also got a lot out of Part 5, Resource Management, which provides some good foundation material for determining total cost of ownership (TCO).  This part gives you some great ideas on determining support costs and justifying them, and asset and inventory management. Part 6, Staff Management, provides some fresh thoughts about this necessary factor of help desk management.<br />I have read (and reviewed) a large number of books on technical support and help desks. Some of these books addressed topics in a lot more depth, while others focused a particular aspect of help desk operations, technical support of problem management. While I found all to be valuable, &quot;How to Manage the IT Help Desk&quot; distilled all of the &quot;meat&quot; into an easy-to-read quick reference and idea jogger.  It earns a solid 5 stars and deserves a spot on every support professional's bookshelf.	2001-04-03
US	46194801	R239ROHFVCPWNH	0130812463	445646519	Software Development: Building Reliable Systems	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good overview of people &amp; processes; weak on technology	I read this book because a colleague recommended it as a good introduction to the software development process.  My goals were to gain more insights into the development process as it pertains to applications delivery, and to integrate this information in to production acceptance criteria.  Since I have read (and reviewed) a number of books in the Enterprise Computing Institute series my expectations regarding format and depth of content were set in advance.  In this respect I was not disappointed.<br />Like most books in the series Software Development is sequenced in a specific order: background, people, process and technology.  It is also follows the series formula of hitting a wide number of topics without going into much detail.  <br />It starts with background and a good, but basic, discussion of critical success factors (the authors call them the &quot;Ten Commandments of Software Development&quot;, and current trends.  The People part of the book contained some development-specific information on teams and organization, and some fairly generic material on recruiting and retaining talent.  <br />The highlight of this book in the section on processes. I gained a lot of insights about the stages in the development life cycle and an overview of rapid application development.  What stood out here were the chapters on productivity, metrics and quality, and web-centric production acceptance.  Since I was seeking information that would provide a foundation for production acceptance finding it in the book was a nice surprise.                       What I found least informative or valuable was the section on technology. I thought the chapter on programming language features did not fit into a book that was written as a high-level survey of development.  Nor did I find the Java coding standard template in appendix A to be particularly useful. Although, to be fair, it may be of interest to a development manager who is seeking to develop and implement standards within his or her organization.  However, the chapters on component-based software development and developing for the web were insightful and interesting.  <br />Overall this is a good, lightweight introduction to the software development process, and is well suited for managers and those of us in production support roles who need to understand this process in order to more closely work with developers.  I subtracted a star because the technology section as a whole was disjointed, and the subtitle, &quot;Building Reliable Systems&quot; is misleading.  While a sound development process will foster the development of reliable systems, there was no direct linkage between this obvious fact and the material in the book.	2001-04-03
US	46194801	RAWWJ5CEHKCUV	0122374711	884589921	The Internet Security Guidebook: From Planning to Deployment (The Korper and Ellis E-Commerce Books Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Cuts through the complexities of Internet security	This book should be required reading for every IT professional because unless security is everybody's business there will be no real security.  The problem to date is that IT security is becoming increasingly complex, and the reality of Internet connectivity just adds to the complexity.  <br />What makes this book so valuable is that it clearly explains the fundamentals of Internet security and its most important parts in terms that someone who is not a security professional can understand.  Aside from the complexities of security itself, factors such as cryptography, authentication and public key infrastructure and messaging are highly specialized and difficult for the non-practitioner to grasp.  Again, this book clearly explained those in such a manner that you &quot;get it&quot;.<br />The authors don't stop with a great discussion of security in general and the technical issues in particular, they next lead you through the development of a plan to address common exposures.  I like this approach. I also liked the response scenarios and advice for steps to be taken when you inevitably become a victim - and chances are that you will if your company is on the Internet (and what companies aren't these days?)<br />This valuable 375-page book wraps up with a big picture view of a total security package and two appendices: one on available security tools and the other a computer emergency response team (CERT) report template.  <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone in IT, especially management, because awareness is the first step towards an effective security program.  It is so well written and packed with great advice and information that it earns a solid 5 stars.	2001-04-02
US	46194801	R1LMVW23KPJHM6	0672314371	13281436	Bob Lewis's IS Survival Guide	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent advice presented in easy-to-read style	This delightful book is for not only IS/IT professionals who are venturing into management (or who got promoted into management from technical positions and are bewildered by the politics they now must figure out), but consultants as well.  <br />First, it's a summary of the key things a manager should be paying attention to if he or she is going to be successful.  Second, it is a guidebook to surviving the inevitable political game that one must play in order to succeed.  To those former techies who find themselves in management and pine for the days when all they had to deal with was technical problems the advice about how to successfully &quot;play the game&quot; will give you confidence and actually might make &quot;the game&quot; fun.  It also sets a context for how you will fit into the IS/IT organization as a manager, and shows you ways you can take the initiative and make a real difference.  This is career enhancing material.  Third, this book provides a common sense approach to managing technology, introduces you to processes and their value, and gives some valuable insights into dealing with people on your staff.  It is a big leap from dealing with machines and recalcitrant software to dealing with people. Systems can be dealt with using logic and troubleshooting skills. People are illogical by nature and do not respond well to &quot;troubleshooting&quot;. This book will show you how to deal with these illogical creatures and troubleshoot them without their knowing it.<br />For a consultant, the knowledge and skills in this book are as applicable, especially the insights into politics (we are certainly not immune to them ourselves, and worse, have to adjust to each client's particular culture). Dealing with people is another skill that we need to continually refine.  In fact, people skills are probably more important than technical skills to a consultant, so this book is especially valuable in that respect.  <br />I thought the chapters on managing technology and processes were valuable because they contain some fresh thinking that got to the core of what's really important.  <br />Overall this book is filled with great information and is well written. I give it 5 stars and recommend it highly to colleagues and clients alike.	2001-04-01
US	46194801	R17TDPF25FSFZG	1574441108	385496245	Step-by-Step QFD: Customer-Driven Product Design, Second Edition	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Well written book about a valuable technique	I stumbled into QFD by accident:  while browsing through sample drawings in Visio I spotted a &quot;House of Quality Matrix&quot; under Business Diagrams. The drawing looked fascinating, which led me to do a quick search on the Internet. The search yielded a large number of hits and interesting content.  That, in turn, led me to this book because capturing and validating requirements is a difficult undertaking and I am always on the lookout for new techniques and tools. <br />The book opened a whole new world to me.  The opening chapter, &quot;The Role of the Customer in Design&quot;, starts with an example of using QFD in a project and gives compelling reasons for using this technique.  Subsequent chapters walk you through the mechanics of a generic design process.  This prepares you for the detailed treatment of QFD that follows.<br />Based on my initial research QFD looks simple and straightforward.  However, this book reveals a rich process and set of procedures that show its real power (and complexity for large undertakings).  For example, I discovered that the &quot;house of quality&quot; structure can have multiple matrices, each of which is linked.  This gives both forward and backwards traceability, but requires painstaking attention to detail.  This is where this book proves its value - it breaks this complexity down into manageable pieces and provides you with a thorough understanding of the process.<br />The section that I found most meaningful and valuable addresses customer segments.  I am an IT consultant who specializes in service delivery, so my natural focus is on strengthening alignment between IT and the business processes that IT supports.  Among the things I learned from this section are: how to effectively identify customer segments and classify them, what measurements are meaningful (especially important for satisfaction measurement), and ranking and prioritizing.  One of the most powerful prioritization techniques that I discovered in this book is the analytic hierarchy process (AHP).  This technique is an excellent way to objectively quantify priorities and requirements.  The steps are relatively simple: 1.Choose the requirements to be prioritized. 2.Set the requirements into the rows and columns of the n x n AHP matrix. 3.Perform a pair wise comparison of the requirements in the matrix according to a set criteria. 4.Sum the columns. 5.Normalize the sum of rows. 6.Calculate the row averages. <br />However, for a large number of requirements this can quickly get complicated in a hurry. The simple math for small numbers of requirements gets replaced by sophisticated (to me) matrix techniques that are outside of my skill set when the number of requirements to be prioritized grows.  Also, AHP is useful for managing requirements revealed via surveys. Most of my requirements come directly from contact with end users.  I have found that a facilitated meeting using paired comparison techniques to be as valuable aas AHP.  This is not covered in the book, which I found to be a minor shortcoming.  If you want details about paired comparisons I will be happy to share them via email.<br />The rest of the book addresses QFD within the context of quality planning and management, and measuring the effectiveness of quality.  Interwoven into these are valuable tools and techniques, such as affinity diagrams, TRIZ and various analysis techniques.  While the remainder of the book began focusing on manufacturing, which is outside of my professional specialty, I found the material interesting because some of my clients are manufacturers and it gave insights into business processes that will surely prove valuable in the future.   Almost everything in this book was new to me.  The author did a magnificent job of explaining how to effectively capture, prioritize and management requirements in ways that I never expected. Moreover, the methods embodied in QFD are both powerful in that you can actually capture the voice of the customer, and practical in that you can trace a final design (product or process) back to customer requirements.  I also learned about some powerful techniques, such as AHP, that I would have never discovered had I not read this book.  If you are involved in requirements management, product or process design or quality then this book will be a valuable addition to your professional reading.	2001-03-29
US	46194801	R2T77ZX47MB8T3	0135694507	644241859	The Art of Software Support	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Great for Call Centers and Internal IT Tier-2	This book is aimed at software product support specialists working for software vendors, but is also applicable to internal IT tier-2 support specialists (application support analysts). Some of the information contained in this book will give internal IT help desks ideas on customer satisfaction, support models and help desk management. However, this is not the book's primary audience.<br />My review is from the viewpoint of an IT service delivery specialist.  Product support specialists will have a different, but loosely related, set of requirements. <br />The theme of this book is achieving customer satisfaction. This surfaces early in the book and recurs throughout.  Since customer satisfaction is the foundation of support, regardless of from whom of where it is delivered, I found this to be one of the highlights of the book.  <br />Call management models outlined by the authors were valuable to me, and I found myself writing notes in the margins and highlighting paragraphs.  I skimmed call management implementation because it is outside of the scope of my speciality, but did note that this information would be of interest by anyone who is setting up an internal IT help desk.  It goes without saying that this material will be of keen interest to product support organizations that are setting up a call center.  One nice touch here is the advice on disaster recovery planning - this is too often overlooked by all organizations and showed the attention to detail that the authors gave when writing this book. <br />The discussions on packaging support programs and product call center support organizations gave me insights into the challenges faced by software vendors.  These insights have armed me with information from which to craft an approach to effectively deal with vendors who are typically at tier-3 from an internal IT point of view.                         Another section that I found particularly useful covered managing software bugs and code fixes.  This material is directly applicable to internal IT tier-2 support, regardless of whether they are dealing with internal developers or outside vendors.  There are some gaps here, though. For example, I would have liked a discussion on configuration control boards, prioritization of fixes and enhancements, and configuration and change management.  These subjects are important to software vendor product support organizations and internal IT tier-2 folks.<br />This book also provides sound advice on selecting, justifying and implementing call center tools. Some of these tools are specific to product support call centers (and to an extent, internal IT help desks), such as phone systems and knowledge bases.  Other tools, such as bug tracking and problem reproduction environments, are useful to IT tier-2 specialists as they are to call centers.<br />I found some of the appendices to be especially valuable: Appendix C, determining staff levels, and D, creating and justifying a support center budget, were excellent reading that added to my own professional knowledge.<br />Overall this is a valuable book that has multiple audiences.  Aside from the gaps I mentioned above, I think this book needs to be updated to reflect the growing requirement for e-support.  While I was tempted to give 4 stars based on the noted shortcomings, this book is so thorough and rich with ideas and advice that it deserves 5 stars.  I only hope that the authors update this book with a second edition that addresses current realities of software support.	2001-03-29
US	46194801	RAU1Q140B1WZC	0201702258	656176409	Writing Effective Use Cases	Books	5	50	52	N	N	Will change the way you approach processes and requirements	My background is not software engineering - it's service delivery and process development. I got this book on a strong recommendation from my mentor because one of my techniques, information mapping, has some gaps when it comes to portraying processes.  I had heard of use cases before getting the book, but paid little attention to them.<br />Mr. Cockburn gives one of the most sensible, logical approaches to capturing, validating and modeling requirements I have ever come across.  My initial concern that this book was focused on software requirements was assuaged by the numerous case studies that address processes and policies.  This is the heart of what I do, and the book gave complete coverage of it.  Of course software engineering-specific material is also addressed since this discipline has the biggest audience.<br />The sections from which I got the most knowledge are:  setting scope for the use cases and the way to use a hierarchy of use cases to depict increasing levels of detail, business process modeling, and the tips for writing use cases. This material pointed me in the right direction for resolving some of the shortcomings inherent in information mapping, and also gave me some fresh ideas on how to effectively and clearly develop processes that are traceable to requirements.<br />One of the things I liked most about the book is its fast pace and reasonable page count.  There is no fluff, and at approximately 300 pages it is an easy read for someone on a busy schedule. <br />My personal opinion is that this book should be promoted to a much wider audience than software engineering - the approach and techniques will certainly serve the software engineering community well, but are also practices that business analysts, process engineers and others in IT can effectively employ. This one goes in that special section of by library that is reserved for books to which I frequently refer.	2001-03-26
US	46194801	R3UG0T9VACGO5C	013030770X	260312885	IT Problem Management	Books	5	10	10	N	N	At long last - a book that goes beyond the help desk	Finally!  A book that addresses the fact that problem management goes far beyond the help desk domain and extends to encompass all of IT.  Problem management the key to IT/business alignment because it directly supports achieving reliability, availability and service objectives.  <br />The approach taken in this book is, like all other books in the Enterprise Computing Institute series, to address people, process and technology.  <br />The authors start this book with standard fare on help desk organization.  This information is available in virtually every help desk book on the market.  However, the discussion becomes interesting when process is introduced.  I thought the chapters on response models and service catalogs were particularly valuable. They certainly reflect the best practices that I have had to discover on my own as a service delivery consultant.<br />Because I develop and implement service delivery solutions for a living I was gratified to see a chapter on this discipline.  While I found little new here (I do this for a living), the approach is sound and the focus on tiers 2 and 3 roles and responsibilities is something that is consciously missing from all of the books on help desk management that I have read.<br />I did learn a lot from the chapter on knowledge capture and sharing.  This is an area that I have found to be weak in every organization in which I have had a consulting engagement.  While there has been a lot written about capturing and sharing knowledge at the tier 1 (help desk) level, little has been written prior to this book about capturing and sharing knowledge across IT from a problem management point of view.  Although this chapter does not provide detailed solutions it does give ideas and a good starting point from which to approach this aspect of IT problem management.<br />The book ends with four final chapters that give a high-level overview of managing the process, service level agreements, service center tools and how to motivate IT participants in the problem management process. <br />This book fills a large void in the IT service delivery body of knowledge because it is the first to address problem management as something larger than help desk operations.  It extends the problem management process to tiers 2 and 3, which is something that the help desk books seem to only briefly address if they address it at all. Moreover, this book contains processes that are essential for aligning IT to business. As such this is a valuable addition to the professional body of knowledge for help desks and technical support specialists.  If you work in production services or IT management you should definitely read this book you will also find the information in this book to be invaluable.	2001-03-26
US	46194801	R1JIROVGSJ269X	0471155349	739586465	Delivering World-Class Technical Support	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of the best books on technical support I have read!	This is one of the most authoritative, information-rich books on technical support that I have read - and as a consultant who specializes in service delivery and problem management processes I have read many.<br />It hits all of the critical success factors in designing, implementing and managing an effective support organization.  It goes far beyond IT help desks - the material here is applicable to support professionals responsible for product support, technical services representatives in customer care organizations, and tier-2 support.<br />I like the process- and business-oriented approach.  The book fully covers all of the parts of mature support processes:  people, process and technology.  It provides excellent insights into what you should be measuring and reporting, and how to handle gaps in your support processes.<br />Also, in view of the high turnover in experienced support professionals that most organizations suffer the section on staffing alone is worth the price of the book. It is obvious that the authors have grappled with this critical issue and they provide sound advice on how to overcome the people aspect of technical support.<br />As a consultant I found the planning and budgeting section to be a big help - the information contained here will not only allow you to determine support costs (which should be factored into product prices if your organization is supporting a product), but also how to effectively manage the cost component of technical support.  If you are a consultant, this section will also give you some ideas on how to craft an effective value proposition for providing outsourced technical support services.<br />This book makes a valuable contribution to the technical support profession and adds considerably to the general body of knowledge. If technical support or service delivery is your business you need this book.	2001-03-23
US	46194801	R3JVZHAEJHVURF	1880410060	649494793	Project and Program Risk Management: A Guide to Managing Project Risks and Opportunities (PMBOK Handbooks)	Books	5	61	64	N	N	Well written introduction to probability and risk management	My mentor and colleague is fond of chiding me to &quot;roll the dice&quot;.  However, he is well versed in probability and risk management, so what he is really attempting to get me to do is to take *calculated* risks. I hate math, but knew that I had to overcome that if I wanted to take the next step in my ongoing professional development.  I selected this book because it was short, and well written and illustrated.<br />This book is a bit light for experienced project managers who are well-versed in risk management, but I found it to be a perfect introduction to probability and risk management. It's structured in a logical order, with each chapter building on the other.  It starts out with a general approach and definitions associated with risk management.  It then covers how to identify risks, assess them using quantitative methods (no blindly rolling the dice here).  Assessment is important.  Risks are a part of our everyday life, and this part of the book shows you how to prioritize risks based on not only the impact, but the probability.  Impact x probability is the basis for indexing and prioritizing risks.  You are also shown how to either eliminate, mitigate or transfer the risk that you identify and assess.  <br />Because I am a consultant and live in the world of statements of work and contracts I thought the brief section on dealing with risks in contracts was a highlight.  I also liked the chapter on managing contingency allowances.<br />This is a valuable book for new project managers who need to get quickly acquainted with risk management, and for anyone who wants to learn the fundamentals of probability and how to calculate and control risks.  It is straightforward and gives you an awareness of what risks are and how to effectively manage them.  My mentor would say, &quot;a risk is an opportunity in disguise.&quot; I never appreciated or fully understood that until I read this book.	2001-03-22
US	46194801	R2X4OMGYIX0IX6	0201877562	644335630	Software Testing In The Real World: Improving The Process	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Excellent insights into the QA process and best practices	This book is not about the actual procedures and techniques for software testing.  If you are looking for this kind of information there is an array of other books from which to choose.  I am not, nor will I ever be a software tester (my career as a service delivery consultant suits me fine).  I bought this book to fully understand the software testing process that precedes bringing an application into production, hoping to use this information to bridge the relationship between my side of the fence, service delivery, and my colleagues on the application delivery side.<br />This book gave me some keen insights into the testing process and what constitutes best practices.  Prior to reading this book I had a vague idea about the challenges of software testing. In fact, I had some unreasonable expectations, such as expecting applications to be 100% tested before they were released into production. The authors gave some excellent reasons why this is technically unfeasible, and also why such coverage did not make sense from a cost/benefit point of view.  This risk management approach appealed to me and made perfect sense.<br />Another valuable insight I gained from this book is what constitutes good testing and what I should be expecting in the form of deliverables from the test organization.  This information gave me some excellent ideas about how to frame entry criteria for change control in view of the fact that any change to a production environment needs to go through testing before it is implemented and released into production.  <br />I also learned a great deal about standards with which a mature testing organization must comply, and how to measure the quality of deliverables that are provided to production services by testing.<br />This book is easy to read, if as much focused on business requirements as it is on the testing process itself, and offers a wealth of advice to IT managers and test/QA managers.  I can attest that it is also valuable to service delivery practitioners who want to fully understand and appreciate software testing. It would also be invaluable to developers who want to understand how they can closely work with the testing group in a less adversarial way.	2001-03-22
US	46194801	R1HBIFVPCKPYMS	0764534238	574771149	Teach Yourself HTML VISUALLY (Teach Yourself Visually)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Non-techies will love it - something for geeks too	My technical bookself is filled with all kinds of serious looking books that I am sure impress visitors. Tucked away in the back is this colorful gem with its fun cover and not-so-serious demeanor. <br />I have written my share of code, most of which was in JCL and REXX on mainframes, so how hard can a mark-up language be, right?  Not hard when you have the right book, and this book is it. I was able to quickly pick up the basics in a few hours, and learned a lot of tricks and cool things along the way. I could have probably gained the same knowledge with a more technical book, but I do not think it would have been enjoyable.  I am fairly positive that if I did not have an extensive background in computers I would not have bothered to learn HTML from another book.  <br />Among the things I like about this book are:  (1) It makes HTML accessible to anyone because it is presented in a highly visual manner. The design of this book is important because it makes learning easy, even for non-technical users who just want to get a web page up. (2)  It goes well beyond the basics.  You can have a simple, but attractive, page up very quickly, then refine it to include frames, multimedia pizzaz such as sound, animation and the such as you become more proficient.  (3) It goes beyond the geek stuff to explain how to make a page eye-catching. This is really the hardest part of getting a web page up - anyone can create a web page, but it takes some real planning to create one that is not an eye sore. It stands to reason that authors who create visually appealing, well thoughtout books will pay attention to web page design, which is exactly what these authors did.<br />This book is so well written that I found the time in my busy schedule to read it and create some pages on my PC (hint: you can make pages with your favorite editor and preview them from your hard disk using your browser before you upload them to your web site).  Now all I have to do is find the time to refine and test my pages and upload them to my own site, which is in dire need of a facelift.  <br />I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  It is fun to read, contains a wealth of information and makes learning HTML both fun and easy. Don't let the pretty cover fool you - the book also has some advanced techniques that are presented in a clear, friendly manner.  If you want to put up a web page and thought it was too hard or technical buy this book.  You will impress yourself and your friends.	2001-03-21
US	46194801	R2TH10Y25DZUIB	0136509207	880131111	Web Site Engineering: Beyond Web Page Design	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Really about Web Site Life Cycle Management &amp; Sys Eng.	I got this book to update my professional skills. My technical specialties are service delivery and production support, and my background is in traditional data center environments. With more than 25 years of mainframe and distributed computing I felt that I had better get up-to-date or I'd be left behind.<br />Based on the title I was expecting a book that would give me insights into how web sites are developed with an emphasis on capacity and performance planning. Although this wasn't exactly what I was looking for it seemed to be close enough to give a basis for extrapolating what I needed. As it turned out, the book provided me with exactly what I needed: a clear view into web site development and deployment that is framed in a life cycle structure.  <br />It starts out with an overview of software engineering principles (not development techniques) and quickly emphasizes the need for process models.  This is followed by some basics about the web, networking and how the web works.  This is pretty fundamental stuff that can be safely skipped by experienced web developers who are interested in the process.  Since I am not a developer and relatively new to the technology I liked this section.<br />The [system] engineering process begins in chapter 4, and follows a standard life cycle model for the remainder of the book.  Problem definition, concept exploration and feasibility analysis are given standard treatment - this is systems analysis 101 material, but is thoroughly covered and a good refresher.  The same holds true for the chapter on requirements analysis and specification.  When you arrive at chapter 6, Designing the Web Site, the unique requirements of web design are highlighted and the book becomes very interesting.  I like the way application and information are distinguished, and the emphasis placed on usability.  This is a marked departure from how systems were developed during the early days in my career when the user interface and human factors were an afterthought - if they were thought of at all.<br />Chapter 7 is the only place in the book where any &quot;web engineering&quot; is addressed. I personally learned a lot from the discussions of client- and server-side technologies, tools and content management. However, an experienced web developer might find this material to be lightweight.  <br />The rest of the book placed implementation, testing, promotion into production and ongoing management into a familiar context that faithfully follows traditional life cycle and production support methods.  I was gratified to see the emphasis on testing, release and post-implementation management because I do not see these in practice when it comes to web implementations.  <br />My view of web development and implementation prior to reading this book was that it is performed by extremely bright-but undisciplined-men and women who did not understand processes. This is based on personal observations of web projects - the projects all seemed to end after development and &quot;thrown over the wall&quot; to production support.  Testing is hit-or-miss and there is no real release methodology. This approach usually results in web sites that are chronically broken, and if commerce is involved, do not have the trust of users.  <br />This book provides a clear roadmap for &quot;engineering&quot; and implementing a web site the right way.  It starts with proven processes and aligns them to the fast cycle times and rapid implementation needs that characterize information technology in today's world.  If you are an IT or project manager this book will provide you with excellent guidelines for a web development and implementation methodology.  If you are working in production support you need to get this book into the hands of the team who will surely try to slip their web site into your domain - this book will communicate your requirements to them in their language.	2001-03-20
US	46194801	R28975N5Y3WHI8	0130950858	198069192	System Engineering	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Provides a great overview of SE and sparks ideas	This book is a great introduction to the system engineering process.  It might be lightweight for a practicing system engineer, but for an IT professional whose background is service delivery, production support and data center operations this book opened a whole new world.<br />An example of how this book opened my eyes is the way configuration management is explained, and how it fits within the system engineering process. IT professionals with my background are subject matter experts in change control; however, few of us (certainly myself) realize that change control is a subset of a much larger picture.  Every part of system engineering it covered in sufficient detail to understand the basics. This understanding created, in my case, a desire to further research some areas in greater detail.  Overall, seeing the process from a high-level view provided some unique insights about what is missing in IT management that can be filled by borrowing from our system engineering brothers and sisters.<br />I found this book valuable because I did not have to wade through a dry manual and sort out the details in order to get a big picture of system engineering.  The brief, succinct chapters and excellent illustrations provided me with a coherent approach to my own job.  In fact, I personally believe that applying system engineering principles to IT service delivery and operations management will significantly improve the IT profession.  As such I highly recommend this book to my peers and anyone else who needs to see the big picture of the system engineering and how its principles can be related to their job.	2001-03-18
US	46194801	R3DRI76KID4OGL	047135760X	190391537	Visualizing Project Management: A Model for Business and Technical Success (with CD-ROM)	Books	5	93	95	N	N	Used in a trial by fire and it got me through	I received this book as a gift from a colleague/mentor who insisted that I read it.  Since I had never been a project manager I glanced through it and stuck it on a shelf where it collected dust. One fateful day I was tasked with producing a project plan and, in a panic, called my mentor who reminded me that the answers to my frantic questions were in the book.  Although I was under pressure and in no mood to read a book I gave it a shot.  <br />This is where the value of Visualizing Project Management became apparent.  I was able to follow the step-by-step procedures outlined in the book to produce a work breakdown structure (something I didn't know existed), determine dependencies and perform supportable estimations for time and resources.  By the time I was ready to plug the tasks into Microsoft Project I had a clear idea of what needed to be done, and a realistic estimate of time and people required.  In essence I was using this book as a guide for planning my first project. Each step of the way I was gaining self-confidence while methodically laying out a project that accounted for all necessary tasks and their deliverables, and could be supported from a traceability and cost-estimating relationship viewpoint.<br />Along the way I learned how to control the project once it was initiated, which was something I had not considered when I was first tasked with planning it.  Bear in mind I was simultaneously reading this book and planning my first project, so I am probably not a typical reader.  Taking this into account what I liked most about this book is the step-by-step approach to project management. The approach is logical and highly visual (hence the title).  Each step, from initial planning to scheduling to controlling the project was put into context and clearly explained.  There are no long-winded explanations or theory, making this book a great tool for learning project management (in my case learning while doing).<br />In addition to using a lot of illustrations to show how project management should be done this book also shows how to use visual tools to manage projects.  One visual technique that I really thought was clever is the &quot;cards on the wall&quot; approach. This method allowed me to put the tasks from the work breakdown structure on cards, tacked to the wall, then examine dependencies by connecting them with yarn.  In essence, I could play &quot;what if&quot; and optimize dependencies using some very low tech tools.  However, this is a highly visual and highly effective way to sequence tasks.<br />I also learned a powerful technique for controlling projects: earned value.  This technique compares your project's planned cost and schedule baseline to actuals. It is a proactive way to manage projects because it is an early warning indicator of slippages and overruns.  <br />Before reading this book I was in awe of project managers.  After reading this book I discovered that many project managers really depend on luck instead of methods to get through projects.  I am appalled by the number of PMs who do not start with a work breakdown structure, or analyze and develop task dependencies before scheduling a project.  I have also noticed that far too many do not use earned value to control their projects.  It is no small wonder that IT projects historically overrun or fail. <br />In that respect a book that I almost did not read not only got me through my first project plan, but showed me that there is a way to do projects right. It has certainly made an impression on me and has improved my professional skills. This is the book and I hope that practicing and aspiring project managers read. It certainly will improve the chances of your next project if you follow its straightforward steps and apply them.	2001-03-16
US	46194801	RH3W0IZ1T1BHG	0070575762	727348958	McGraw-Hill Pocket Guide to Business Finance: 201 Decision-Making Tools for Managers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful resource for financial and non-financial pros	The 201 tools contained in this small, highly useful book range from Acid Test (doing a quick ratio of financials) to Z-Scores.  Each tool is listed alphabetically, its use explained, and instructions on how to use it is provided.  What I particularly liked is the worked examples that accompany each tool.<br />As an IT consultant who specializes in service delivery this book is not one I would normally include in my professional library.  I was introduced to it when a colleague and I were writing a white paper on recovery management.  We were searching for a way to link business imperatives to justification for investment in recovery strategies.  We found one piece of the puzzle in this book - the Altman Z-Score.  This tool predicts whether or not a company is likely to enter into bankruptcy within one or two years. This led to the development of a copyrighted model that addressed survival level objectives, and also became a key part of the Tarrani-Zarate Information Technologies Management Model.  All this from a single entry in a small book!<br />Aside from discovering a relatively obscure, but important, tool I also found other useful tools in this book.  Because I am not a business consultant or financial expert the tools were like a cram course in financial management for non-financial people. For example, I was able to apply some of the tools to personal financial matters - the real costs of a loan become quickly apparent when you compute them.  I was also able to employ some of the tools to conduct realistic cost/benefit analyses, examine trade-offs supporting approaches to projects, etc.  In this respect this small book has significantly improved my professional skills and has inspired me to read other books on financial management.<br />I strongly recommend this book - collection of tools really - to anyone who deals with finance, anyone who has P&amp;L responsibilities, and business and IT consultants.  The latter group will find this book to be invaluablefor developing proposals, deliverables and project plans that add value.	2001-03-14
US	46194801	R26BZ1EQMCMQ1O	1565922697	121026797	Web Security and Commerce (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Valuable to Technical &amp; Non-Technical Readers	This book is an ideal introduction to the broad landscape of security methods and technologies for non-technical users.  It is also an excellent resource for IT professionals who need to quickly get up-to-speed on web security.<br />My background is mostly &quot;big iron&quot;, consisting of 24 years of mainframe and mid-range experience and a little more than a year in distributed computing (UNIX/Linux, network, etc.).  In the good old days security consisted of RACF, ACLs, and some common sense rules about physical and logical access controls.  Not so today, and until I read this book I had a nagging feeling that there was a large gap in my professional knowledge.  Moreover, as a home user who spent a lot of time on the web I would get frustrated by messages issued by my browser about certificates.  This book came to my rescue on all counts.<br />The first two sections, The Web Security Landscape and User Safety, were illuminating.  If a non-technical user only read these parts of the book he or she would come away with a good understanding of the risks faced on the web, and how to mitigate or eliminate them.  The one complaint I have about these two sections is the material is woefully out of date.  I subtracted a star from my rating for this reason.<br />The next three sections of the book is a wide survey of security technologies that cover digital certificates, cryptography, web server security. These provided me with a basic understanding of technologies that I need to know as an IT professional working in distributed environments.  When comparing what I needed to know about security in the mainframe world to what I need to know as an IT consultant I could not help thinking, &quot;We're not in Kansas anymore!&quot;  The material was clear and easy to understand and built my personal self-confidence.  This part of the book will not make you an expert by any means, but you will come away with a good grasp of the elements of web security and a very basic understanding of how everything works and fits together.<br />Commerce and Society is the title of the book's last section and contains thought-provoking information on topics such as digital payments, censorship technology and the such.  I especially liked the two chapters that addressed civil and criminal legal issues.   Despite the fact that this book is out of date with respect to specific products it is a great introduction to web security.  Unlike other O'Reilly books that are deeply technical, this one can be easily understood by home and business users as well as IT professionals. I personally gained a lot from the book and highly recommend it.	2001-03-14
US	46194801	R2NIFWDMORGR47	0133762602	320476664	Comparing ISO 9000, Malcolm Baldrige, And the SEI CMM for Software: A Reference and Selection Guide	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Clear navigation through confusing standards	This book cuts through the fog and confusion surrounding the three of the four main approaches to software quality (the fourth is Software Process Capability Determination, a.k.a. SPICE).  <br />My goals in reading this book were to find the best framework with which to apply to service delivery, and to integrate this framework into application delivery.  Since these terms are ambiguous in the software industry here are my definitions: service delivery encompasses the maintenance, operation and support of applications after they have been released into production. Application delivery is the analysis, design, construction and testing of applications prior to release to production.  <br />This book compared and contrasted each quality approach and provided some surprising facts.  For example, until I carefully read this book I was under the impression that the SEI CMM was the most process-oriented approach. As it turns out ISO 9000 (specifically, ISO 9000-3, which addresses software and services) is more heavily oriented towards process.  Another surprise was discovering that the SEI CMM places more emphasis on leadership than the Malcolm Baldridge approach.  Each of these facts were easy to discover because the author did an excellent job of correlating criteria of each of the approaches and displaying results in graphs and charts.<br />Prior to reading the book I was confused and frustrated by the competing standards and frameworks. This was exacerbated by the fact that there is a large body of knowledge devoted to each and these bodies comprise thousands of pages of dry material. After reading this book I felt as though I had a grasp of the focus of each approach, and their relative strengths and weaknesses.  More importantly, I was able to determine which of the three is best suited to service delivery and its integration with application delivery (the Baldridge approach appears to be the best choice).  <br />I appreciated the author's efforts in clearly outlining the what's and why's behind each approach, and the succinct manner in which each was compared, contrasted and correlated.  This is an extremely valuable book for individuals and companies trying to sort through the buzzwords and assumptions on quality frameworks to select one that is most appropriate for their goals and objectives.  I strongly recommend this book for software engineering managers, including members of program management offices (PMOs) and software engineering process groups (SEPGs), as well as service delivery professionals (production services, tier 1 and 2 support, etc.).	2001-03-13
US	46194801	R1T36DXLBFYWB9	0201331349	804710004	The Open Toolbox of Techniques (Open Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Consultant's Close Companion	This book is one of a series on OPEN (Object-oriented Process Environment and Notation).  Unlike the other books in the OPEN series, this book is independent of any methodology and can also be used in non object-oriented environments.<br />The title is appropriate:  this 426 page book and accompanying CD ROM is a toolbox of techniques that can be applied in any environment or within the context of any methodology.  It is, literally, an encyclopedia of techniques that consultants and business analysts can use to perform a variety of tasks or produce associated deliverables.<br />If you are using this book as a generic compendium of tools and techniques, or you are not interested in OPEN, you can safely skip the first chapter that is an overview of OPEN.  If you work within an object-oriented environment you may find chapters 2 through 4 useful.  These chapters describe OPEN and how it relates to other O-O approaches.  If not, you can also skip these and jump to Appendix A, which is the heart of the book.  <br />Appendix A is a collection of core techniques in alphabetical order ranging from abstract class identification to workshops.  There are over one hundred core techniques, each of which is presented using the following format: Technique Name and Star rating - 1 star = well tried, 2 stars = reasonably well validated, 3 stars = experimental. Focus, typical tasks for which the technique is used, related techniques, entry criteria and underpinning concepts. This header information is followed by: Technique description Technique useage Deliverables and output<br />The CD ROM contains additional techniques that make this one of the most comprehensive resources available to a consultant.  The content on the CD ROM is in PDF format and is divided into three additional appendices.  Additional techniques are in two of these appendices, with the third covering supporting reference material.<br />What I like about this book is the wide coverage of techniques. All of the standard fare is covered, and a lot of esoteric ones are also included.  I use it as a memory jogger or idea book when I an trying to find that &quot;perfect&quot; approach to performing a task or creating a deliverable.    Some minor irritations include the star ratings - I found them to be somewhat ambiguous, and the fact that the techniques are presented in alphabetical order instead of grouped by class.  A cross-reference in the front of the book would remedy that complaint.<br />However, this book deserves a solid five stars because it is comprehensive and packs a lot of information into 426 pages and a CD ROM.  If you are a consultant or analyst this book is money well spent, and will make a great addition to your short list of everyday tools and references.	2001-02-26
US	46194801	R2PW9E4ECY6KQT	0814405932	114088071	Corporate Portals: Revolutionizing Information Access to Increase Productivity and Drive the Bottom Line	Books	5	16	16	N	N	An important work on a misunderstood technology	Let's play stump the consultant.  Here's how it's played: read this book first, then ask your consultant or consulting company to define portal.  I am willing to bet that he, she or they will devolve from the smooth-talking, jargon-dropping demigods to a mumbling characters who drop into doubletalk.  Why?  Everyone is talking about portals, but few understand what they are, or for what purpose they can be used. <br />This book, Corporate Portals, will explain not only what a portal is, but how this technology can leverage corporate knowledge across all lines of business. This book does an excellent job of explaining portals as a technology and a corporate tool. It also gives you all of the information you need to develop a compelling business case to invest in a portal implementation.<br />The book's focus is on leveraging knowledge and creating business value.  Strong points are the sections on IT analysis and how it is linked to business processes and business requirements. The section on financial metrics analysis reinforces this focus.  <br />Specific parts of the book that I particularly liked are: identification management, how to develop and implement a portal strategy, and the example portal project plan. <br />I strongly recommend this book to business process owners or executives having to deal with consultants who are recommending a portal as the end-all solution to problems.  This book will arm that audience with enough information to ask intelligent questions at the very least, and possibly control the conversations and negotiations.  If you are a consultant, get this book so you are not blind-sided by a savvy client.  Regardless of which side of the fence you are on, client or consultant, this book will provide invaluable information that may lead to significant competitive advantages and a more intelligent workplace.	2001-02-25
US	46194801	R3SUSDS3CE6JO7	0471296201	30086661	Constructing Blueprints for Enterprise IT Architectures	Books	3	39	42	N	N	Good attempt that falls short	The author made a valiant effort to explain how to impelement an enterprise information architecture, but falls short.<br />I'll start with what I like about ths book: using a blueprint approach is appealing because I place a high value on design patterns, with which this approach is consistent.  The fact that the author bases his approach on the Zachman framework is another strong point. And it is apparent that Mr. Boar knows his subject.<br />That said, this book has a lot of shortcomings:  it is inconsistent in detail - some places there is too much detail, and other places the lack of sufficient detail requires either a leap of faith or shows that the author just hasn't carefully thought the details through.  The writing style is muddled. Unlike other reviewers I have not read any of the author's other books, so I cannot comment on whether or not this is atypical. To me reading this book was a chore.  There is more emphasis on the author's approach than there is on actually implementing an architecture.  This, in my opinion, detracts from the book.<br />For a well-written description of the Zachman Framework and how to implement it I recommend Melissa Cook's Building Enterprise Information Architecture.  For copious detail that is given is a consistent and accurate manner I recommend Spewak and Hill's Enterprise Architecture Planning.  Either of these books will provide a more complete. clearly-written approach to implementing an enterprise IT architecture.	2001-02-25
US	46194801	R2U448DO6HTYDZ	0849370019	226776502	The Information System Consultant's Handbook: Systems Analysis and Design	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Useful Reference for Consultants &amp; IT Professionals	This book is a compendium of tools and techniques that are routinely used in one consulting engagement after another.  The topics are standard fare and are covered in a plain, straightforward manner.<br />I use this book as an encyclopedia of techniques when I am searching for a method or procedure that fits a particular situation or requirement.  I also use it as a refresher when I set aside time for professional reading.<br />What I like about the book is the wide range of techniques covered - everything from control charts to structured analysis is addressed, with an apparent bias towards project management techniques (crash mode analysis, PERT, critical path method, etc.) It also covers object-oriented techniques, database design and rapid application design.<br />I also like the fact that techniques are grouped into chapters under sections that cover Principles, Information Gathering,/Problem Definition, Project Management, Systems Analysis (some great material in this section), Identifying Alternatives, Design, Testing/Implementation, and Operations &amp; Maintenance.  This makes finding a particular technique easy to locate and to also place into the context of whatever project you happen to be working on.<br />Why four stars?  The writing is dry, and in many sections too verbose.  Also, there is a discernible difference in writing style between authors Davis and Yen, which could have been rectified by a good editor.  Other than this minor complaint I recommend this book to consultants because it does provide a single source of reference material on a wide range of topics and techniques.	2001-02-24
US	46194801	R5I5OW6PA4PK	0201593726	382315341	Case* Method: Business Interviewing	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Improve communication with your clients!	As an IT consultant I spend a lot of time keeping abreast of technical information, refining my understanding of techniques and acquiring new skills.  Like my colleagues I tend to focus on the technical side, forgetting that &quot;soft skills&quot; are just as important.<br />This book is about those &quot;soft skills&quot; and it has greatly influenced how I approach one of the most important activities in which consultants engage - interviewing and elicitation.  Prior to reading this book I viewed this activity as an art and, to be honest, as a necessary evil. As a group IT consultants have traditionally failed at effectively communicating with business users.  There has been much written about aligning IT to business, but little has been said about how to go about it. This book changes that - at least from a requirements gathering and communications point of view.<br />To begin, it takes a methodical approach to the interview process by defining deliverables.  We consultants seem to do this for every activity *except* interviewing.  It then gives an example situation, and covers the basics of interviewing. <br />As you go through this book you will find sound advice on note taking, managing interview material, and advanced techniques.<br />Among the advanced techniques are how to read non-verbal communications (body language), how to match conversation styles with your subjects, and how to manage the interview. This is excellent material that should be read by any consultant who has customer contact.  <br />I especially liked the chapter on facilitating workshops and groups, managing feedback sessions and eliciting knowledge (as opposed to eliciting information). I also found the checklists provided throughout the book to be excellent aids and have copied them for my own use.  <br />This book should be required reading for all consultants and IT professionals regardless of their level of experience.  It gives us a set of tools to use to align IT and business, starting with the most basic of activities:  effectively communicating.	2001-02-24
US	46194801	R2EAHQC5S69NR	1571250255	696889185	Using Service Goals and Metrics to Improve Help Desk Performance	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Little more than a pamplhet with great content	This book provides a straightforward approach to improving help desk performance.  The foundation, as the title proclaims, is service goals and metrics.  My first reaction when the book arrived was mild disappointment because it was little more than a pamphlet.  However, it is packed with excellent information, a lot of which has guided me in developing service delivery and service level measurement processes.  I like the way the author stays focused on service goals and his choice of metrics with which to measure the attainment of those goals.  Therefore, despite this book's page count it provides excellent value because the content is so well thought out. If you follow the guidelines you will have a good starting point for a service delivery process that is based on measured performance.  I highly recommend this book to help desk managers and consultants who are assigned to service delivery projects.	2001-02-18
US	46194801	R12Y2PB140V33M	0527763268	737988908	The Root Cause Analysis Handbook: A Simplified Approach to Identifying, Correcting, and Reporting Workplace Errors	Books	5	62	63	N	N	Unique approach to a traditionally reactive technique	My background is information systems service delivery.  I stumbled across this gem when I was searching for resources on how to structure outage investigations for applications that did not meet service level objectives.<br />Prior to reading this book I viewed root cause analysis as a reactive tool to be used to investigate the causes of failures.  The approach taken by the author is to also use this technique as a proactive tool in a manner similar to failure mode effects and criticality analysis (FMECA).<br />Here is a summary of what how this book approaches root cause analysis:  it begins with a section on defining problems and collecting data. This approach allows you to take a proactive approach, especially if you are in an environment that uses statistical process controls to measure process performance.  This is augmented by a chapters on task analysis and event and casual factor charting. This is where the author's approach begins to resemble FMECA techniques, which are proactive versus reactive methods of addressing problems and risks. This is followed by chapters on interviewing and reporting.<br />I particularily liked the chapter on interviewing techniques, which added a practical dimension root cause analysis.  I also liked the way the author used hints throughout the book to reinforce methods.<br />The rest of the brief 135-page book is devoted to forms, worksheets and checklists that significantly add to the value or the book.  I would have liked an accompanying diskette with this material in electronic format, but the lack of it does not detract from the book in any way.<br />If you want to use root cause analysis as a proactive tool in conntection with a continuous improvement initiative I recommend that you also consider Understanding Variation by Donald Wheeler. If you are seeking a more proactive approach to preventing problems in the first place you might consider augmenting  Root Cause Analysis Handbook with Failure Mode and Effect Analysis by D. H. Stamatis.	2001-02-13
US	46194801	R2WF2Y1JSFW6P0	0521652626	387965255	More Process Patterns: Delivering Large-Scale Systems Using Object Technology (SIGS: Managing Object Technology)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Takes application delivery to production support!	This book provides set of well designed patterns from which to develop service delivery processes.  This is the only book I have come across that manages a clean, seamless segue from application delivery to service delivery.  <br />First, to appreciate this book's approach it is important to know what OOSP and patterns are - this will set your expectations about the book and what you can get from it.<br />OOSP stands for Object-Oriented Software Process.  It is an approach to software development within the context of object-orientation.  Put another way, it is an object oriented approach to application delivery. Both of my definitions fall short, but if you are familiar with the unified modeling language (UML) or the Rational Unified Process (both of which are nearly inescapable judging from the sheer volume of literature on both subjects) then you will get the idea.<br />Patterns are like templates for actions and activities. Using a pattern assures a high degree of consistency in presenting a collection of activities, and also allows you to distill the key elements of a particular process into a succinct format.  What I especially like about the concept of patterns is that provide a &quot;container&quot; into which you can capture best practices for any process.<br />This book presents a set of patterns for the final stages of application delivery (i.e., software development)and segues directly into service delivery.  The patterns grouped into phases that roughly follow the Rational Unified Process, and the phases are further grouped into stages.<br />From the application delivery point of view, the processes are: test and rework.  The bridge to service delivery is provided in the release stage processes.  From there the processes are firmly in the service delivery domain, starting with the assess stage, and moving into the maintain and support phase.  One of the best parts of this book from a service delivery practitioner's point of view is the &quot;Identify Defects and Enhancements&quot;. This if often overlooked in the body of literature for applications and service delivery (but is a key process in software quality assurance).  The patterns associated with this stage are an ideal vehicle to communicate operational requirements from service delivery back to application delivery.  <br />I also liked the project and cross-project tasks that are presented in this book.  As the co-developer of the Tarrani-Zarate Information Technology Management Model one of the fuzzy areas was the link between maintenance and support and the project-related tasks. This section clarified some of the dependencies and linkages.<br />What did this book do for me?  As a service delivery practitioner it gave me a clear understanding of the potential synergies that can be achieved if application and service delivery are treated as a coherent whole.  It also heavily influenced my thoughts when developing the Tarrani-Zarate model, and refined my view of service delivery.  It also showed the value and power of employing patterns for capturing best practices.  As such, this book is probably of value to knowledge management practitioners.<br />What does this mean to you? It depends on your role.  If your role is project manager, in development or QA/test, then the process patterns provided will underscore the fact that development is not complete until the product is in production. If you are in production control, production support or applications support (help desk, tier 2 or 3), then this book provides some excellent ideas on how to &quot;connect&quot; service delivery to application delivery.  If you are a project sponsor or business process owner, the defects and enhancement stages are a good starting point for understanding your role on a configuration control board at the project or product management level.<br />The author sums up the key point of this book with a quote from his web page: &quot;A good developer knows that there is more to development than programming. A great developer knows that there is more to development than development.&quot;  To paraphrase, development isn't what it is about - it's about delivering functions to business users so they can do their job.  This book provides ideas and tools to do this.	2001-02-04
US	46194801	R3A3FERUB7ABGY	0130137863	159297307	IT Automation: The Quest for Lights Out	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Sound Processes and Clear Roadmap to Operations Excellence	This book provides a coherent roadmap to &quot;lights out&quot; data center operations.  It also provides a roadmap to developing a sound organization and processes to support data center operations regardless of whether they are &quot;lights out&quot;, 24x7 or less demanding normal working hours support.<br />In fact, this book is misnamed because the real focus is on data center operations and the support requirements of running a data center in accordance with a set of best practices that the author has acquired over the years.  <br />The roadmap that is used in this book appears to assume that operations will be outsourced.  A good deal of the analysis and planning, and the roadmap milestones seems to lead to that objective.  However, it will also support in-house operations after you align the people and process sides of the equation to the book's processes.<br />Real strengths of the author's approach are in the processes. He addresses the key process areas that need to be in place and the level of maturity needed to operate an effective and efficient data center. These same processes are the foundation of service delivery - which is the foundation of customer satisfaction.  They are:<br />- Production Acceptance<br />- Problem Management<br />- Change Management<br />- Asset Management<br />- Disaster Recovery<br />Each of the above are essential processes. The author's approach validates my 24 years of mainframe experience. I especially like the production acceptance process that is conspicuously missing from most non-mainframe shops.  <br />There are some potential problems with some of the processes that my current experience in distributed and e-commerce environments is uncovering.  <br />Let's start with problem management. The author's approach is good for the here and now, but has a limited future.  For example, the call center experts are rapidly integrating customer relationship management with internet technologies. External customers are benefitingfrom technologies and associated processes that we IT experts are designing and implementing while our internal customers are limited to more traditional kinds.  Another issue is there is no clear linkage between problem management and disaster recovery.  At what point does a problem trigger either business continuity or disaster recovery processes?  This, as far as I can tell, has been adroitly sidestepped in every book and white paper addressing problem management, so the author cannot be faulted here.  However, it is something you should consider as you read this section of the book. <br />The change management process is sound and works well in mainframe and traditional operational settings.  However, the realities that we are faced with today are going to make the traditional approach to change management obsolete.  It is not responsive enough to today's dynamic environments that are characterized by competitive pressures and the sheer complexity of data center environments.  There has to be a streamlined approach, and the one proposed by the author will probably be an anachronism in the next two years.  Managing changes in the Internet environment needs to happen quickly to respond to pressures, but with controls to ensure that you do not affect half the world.  Consider something as simple as a new DNS server - mistakes in the tables can get propagated that make it look like you are hijacking web site traffic (this really happened!)  While this particular process is well developed and meets today's needs, I hope the author will revisit this in the next edition and come up with a process that provides the speed that marketing demands, and the controls that we practitioners need.<br />Overall, this book is a very valuable source of ideas and comes with ready-made processes that can be implemented and managed to provide a mature operational support environment.  The shortcomings that I cited do not detract from this book - they only underscore the fact that theworld is rapidly changing and what works well today is not going to work well tomorrow.  As the co-developer of the Tarrani-Zarate Information Technology Management Model, I can attest that there are no clear answers or solutions to these shortcomings.  I can only hope that the author addresses these gaps in the next edition.  In the meantime, the processes and approach provided in the book will give you the tools and techniques with which to build a mature operational support organization that is based on true best practices.	2001-01-25
US	46194801	R27JPJ8CW3AH0I	0471599859	478890924	Enterprise Architecture Planning: Developing a Blueprint for Data, Applications, and Technology	Books	5	32	43	N	N	More than just EAP	Other reviews of this book are valid in that Enterprise Architecture Planning is an invaluable resource for developing an enterprise-wide architecture.  However, this excellent book is also an invaluable resource for the service delivery practitioner.<br />While the Zachman Framework is a recognized approach to enterprise architectures, it is also a excellent tool to anchor processes and procedures for delivering service and support for applications. The notion of application profiles are an excellent paradigm from which to develop problem management processes in support of enterprise applications.<br />Ideas and concepts set forth in the book are aimed at the enterprise architect, but can also be refactored into building blocks for a service delivery plan that is tightly integrated into applications delivery. <br />The above statement is based on my definitions, which are:  service delivery is the set of processes that IT provides support for reliability, availability and infrastructure support that is aligned to business imperatives and requirements.  Applications delivery is the processes employed to manage business requirements and translate them into products (developed or purchased).  <br />This book provides a sound framework for achieving the above objectives, which I am sure were not the authors' primary intent. So, while this book provides the enterprise architect with a proven approach based on a proven framework, it has additional value.  Specifically, it also provides the production services and operations functions within IT with a valid approach to integrating service delivery with applications delivery, and aligning them to business requirements.	2001-01-21
US	46194801	R393CYNMFR4LCL	0130191957	263328453	IT Services: Costs, Metrics, Benchmarking and Marketing	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Focus is on the critical production support processes	This book is one of, if not the, best guides to developing, implementing and managing a mature production support organization.  <br />The value of this book is that it takes a business-centric approach to service delivery, and augments material on service level management (such as Foundations of Service Level Management - another excellent book). <br />Specifically, this book contains sorely needed body of knowledge in a profession that has lost its way.  What I mean by this bold statement is the production support function in many IS/IT departments has devolved from service delivery to infrastructure management.  IT Services brings the focus back to where it belongs: supporting the business. <br />What I like most about this book is it not only shows what is wrong with most production support organizations, but it provides a clear roadmap to how to restructure production support from an infrastructure management focus to a service delivery paradigm.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone in production support, consultants and IT/IS executive management.  It would also be useful to ISPs and ASPs because most of the material can be applied to internal or external customers.	2000-12-29
US	46194801	R3V5RJWC97TBST	0672317435	919680387	Foundations of Service Level Management	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Much-needed book on a neglected topic	There is a real dearth of books that deal with service level management from an IT pespective, which makes this a &quot;must-have&quot; for consultants, production services managers and others in IT whose job involves service delivery.<br />The book is straightforward and puts service level management into perspective. It addresses all key process areas for establishing, implementing and managing service delivery. Also provided are artifacts from the authors' web site that are invaluable to anyone who is in the process of implementing SLM.<br />I especially like the business case approach taken to quantify the value of a sound service delivery program, and also thought that treament of how to negotiate a service level agreement was a highlight of this book.<br />Why 4 stars instead of 5?  Some of the URLs provided in the book either were dead or led to sites that did not provide valuable content.<br />If service delivery is your business I strongly recommend this book.  There are two companion books that should also be on your book shelf: IT Services Costs, Metrics, Benchmarking and Marketing (the material complements this book) and Mission Critical Systems Managemet (also complements this book, but also has an excellent SLA template and addresses SLM in a comprehensive manner).	2000-12-27
