US	46220931	RWGCPW7NB53EK	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Inside the mind of the patriarch...	Separating Washington the myth from Washington the living/breathing human has been the goal of many an author/historian. Few (if any) have approached that lofty goal...that is until noted historian Joseph Ellis published this marvelous work covering both Washington's life and idealism. Comprising a surprisingly succinct amount of information into such a relatively small work (about 275 pages), Ellis provides a welcome alternative to the many-volumed biographical works from Freeman and Flexnar and broadens history's view of this atypical founding father. <br /> <br />Relying on many scholarly sources, but primarily presenting an interpretation of the \\"Washington Papers\\", Ellis pens a full and rich version of Washington's life. Chronologically and politically, Ellis's version differs slightly from the standing myth...indeed, he delves into the mind of Washington moreso than any other biographer and this interpretation gives a fresh view of the many oft-told stories of the founding of this nation. Washington's actions prior to and during the French and Indian War are covered in a comprehensive nature while still leaning heavily toward the personal side. His realization of and subsequent support of the fledgling nations revolutionary ideals fits well into Ellis's \\"wheelhouse\\"...revolutionary idealism is clearly Ellis's strength and his interpretation of Washington's thoughts at this point provides a nice segue into the subsequent war. <br /> <br />The Revolutionary War is covered obviously in the context of Washington's involvement, but the thinking and planning deep in his mind as he realizes that an agressive strategy would mean certain defeat offsets the standard thinking about the War. Anxiety concerning the French participation is palpable, as is the subsequent joy and satisfaction at having finally cornered and defeated the British at Yorktown. It's this internalized view from Washington's perspective at the end of the War that sets the stage for the rest of the book and let's us understand his need for a certain lifestyle after the War.  <br /> <br />Unfortunately for him (fortunately for us!) he can't escape the idealogical conflict as the Constitution is drafted and finalized and his role as President becomes defined. Reluctantly taking office, he becomes largley a delegator, becoming involved only in issues that subordinates cannot finalize...the apex of that being the Jay treaty that avoids (delays?) war with the British, but alienates him politically. Ellis masterfully balances Washington's thinking with the isolationist tendencies of the other pantheons of American history, Thomas Jefferson and James Madison. In fact, the highlight of this work (in my view) is the deteriorating relationship between Jefferson and Washington and how this split ultimately leads to the initial formation of the political party system. <br /> <br />A scholarly work that historians and general readers should savor and appreciate, \\"His Excellency\\" adds greatly to the recent thrust of Revolutionary literature and furthers Joseph Ellis's reputation as a neo-revisionist historian. Well written and researched, this work surely will become essential reading for all Washington scholars...enjoy.	2005-03-08
US	46220931	R1Y90GUUW1ARJ9	0312308655	148536298	Two Sides of the Moon: Our Story of the Cold War Space Race	Books	3	30	33	N	N	The moon race from vastly different perspectives...	In his seminal work \\"A Man On the Moon\\", author Andrew Chaiken describes the quintessenal American astronaut: \\"Even in a pack of overachievers like the astronaut corps, David Scott stood out. He seemed to have come straight from Central Casting, a six footer with All-American good loooks and built like a decathlon champion. In some circles there was a joke that if NASA ever came out with an astronaut recruiting poster, Scott should be on it.\\" This glowing testament and the providence of being on the most ambitious lunar mission up to that point (Apollo 15) made Dave Scott seem somewhat a hero to young Apollo-crazed 5th grade students like myself (in 1971). That feeling really never went away, so it was with great anticipation that I undertook this dual auto-biography with Alexei Leonov...and the result was mild disappointment. I suppose I expected more in-depth discussion of the technical aspects of Apollo 15 and the training for it, but got a rather pedestrian telling of that mission and the events leading up to it. True, \\"Two Sides of the Moon\\" doesn't promise to be a comprehensive account of any particular mission, rather an overlay of two perspectives of the moon race between the Soviet Union and the U.S. If looked at from that perspective, this work is a useful addition to the mountain of literature on the space race...indeed Leonov exposes much new information on the Soviet program that essentially carries this book. <br /> <br />Thrown together for the symbolic Apollo-Soyuz joint mission in 1975, Scott and Leonov established a shaky initial relationship that prospered following the demise of the Soviet Union and this book is the result of the many story-telling sessions that followed. From Sputnik to Gagarin's ground-breaking manned orbital mission and on to the Leonov commanded Apollo-Soyuz, the reader is treated to the beginning of the Soviet Space program, now with the perspective of over 40 years. The successes and failures were surprising revelations tome...as was the leadership and vision of Sergei Korelov, the \\"Chief Designer\\" and the true leader of the Soviet program. <br /> <br />The American program, certainly well documented to date, is rather blandly described by Scott...although useful discussions of Gemini 8 (Scott's first mission), Apollo 9 and of course Apollo 15 make the Scott sections worth the read. Again, when compared to Chaiken's work, Scott's first person rendering of his initial training for and prosecution of this fabulous mission lacks much verve and emotion...many humanistic tidbits, like Scott's iron command of the mission and the resulting embarrasment of the \\"stamp scandal\\" are given relatively short shrift...for that matter so to is his mission to the Appenine Mountains. Hadley Rille, Mount Hadley and Hadley Delta exploration points were argueably the most scenic and scientifically important (i.e. the Genisis rock) spots that astronauts visited on the moon, but Scott just doesn't get that emotion across. He tries, but I constantly had to reference Chaiken's book to reinforce that grandeur...a real shame. <br /> <br />What does work with this book however is the integration of the two stories and the disclosure of the initial cooperation between the two programs. Many readers, unaware of these details, will surely find this interesting, as did I. The post space program paths that both men took is also interesting and relevant, although some more personal details from Scott would have rounded out the story-line a little better. For example he mentions his former wife Lurton, but does not go into the cause of that break-up...was it the space program that caused it as happened with many of his peers, or something else? Sadly, one gets the impression that both men are rushed to get their story published, so these important details are left out. <br /> <br />Another in a long recent line of biographies of the Apollo program, this work should stand out somewhat as it gives an interesting new perspective of this well-told story. Scott and Leonov are not great story-tellers, but by combining their career stories, the reader is given a useful look at both programs...but with just a little more effort, this could have been so much better.	2005-02-23
US	46220931	R2UZONWMNCFOBW	0684815257	340472252	CITIZEN SOLDIERS : The U.S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany -- June 7, 1944-May 7, 1945	Books	5	4	4	N	N	In the trenches for the drive to Berlin...	Against the backdrop of the WWII Allied invasion from Normandy to Berlin, Stephen Ambrose pens a remarkable \\"you are there\\" history of the front-line soldier with \\"Citizen Soldiers\\". Using many first person accounts from both the Allied and Nazi side, Ambrose presents a truly gritty and at times macabre testiment to the existence that these amazing men went through and in the process gives an alternate history to the many previously published works of this monolithic period of WWII. <br /> <br />From the Allied breakout at Normandy (Ambrose's previous work \\"D-Day\\" covers the Normandy landings), we follow many U.S. frontline troops as they work their way through hedgerow warfare and push the German army eastward through France. Ambrose exposes the everday technicalities of this fighting while maintaining the big picture as the Allies adjust their invasion strategy. Both the German and American infantry soldier tells his story (through Ambrose, of course) and the scenario that emerges is one of brutal massacre followed by un-ending periods of waiting and frustration...I've never read such intimate details of warfare as depicted here by Ambrose. <br /> <br />The Allies encircle the German army and allow it to escape through the Falaise Gap and this sets the stage for the failed attempt by British General Montgomery to bridge a gap to Germany with operation Market-Garden. The major struggles at the Hurtgen Forest and the southern France battles at Metz all precede the Ardennes Campaign, better known as the Battle of the Bulge. Ambrose works the reader well here with the General's strategy and paralleling with the views from the division command all the way to the lowly private. What we get is front line warfare at it's literary finest...Ambrose surley deserves his reputation as the finest conveyer of this foxhole warfare. <br /> <br />The book at this point digresses as we get short chapters associated with replacement soldiers, the air-war, medics and frontline nurses,POW's and the low life of the Army (aptly titled \\"Jerks, Sad Sacks, Profiteers and Jim Crow\\"), but gets back to the battles as story after story is told of the horrific conditions both sides encountered as the \\"Bulge\\" is pushed back and as the Allies take their initial casualties in Germany. The final push to Berlin is highlighted with the story of the troops at Remagen where the struggle for the bridge and bridgehead is prime-time Ambrose. Both the German and American veteran tells of the awful slaughter here and the desperation of the Germans as they realize that all is lost. The book ends with VE Day and the relief of the troops as they start to consider going home...this thinking is of course tempered with the knowledge that many of them are bound for the Pacific and a return to the slaughter. <br /> <br />If one is looking for a detailed and comprehensive account of this period of ETO operations, this is not the book for you (you should look at Max Hastings \\"Overlord\\" and the newly published \\"Armageddon\\"). But if you want to understand what the front line soldier truly endured as he made his way from Normandy to Berlin, than you can do no better than \\"Citizen Soldiers\\". Stephen Ambrose is at his best here and he's clearly passionate about this period of WWII. Combining intimacy with brutal battle tactics, one comes away from this read exhausted and, like the soldiers he presents, relieved at the end of the struggle. Highest recommendation!	2005-01-30
US	46220931	R3TV91V9SXABNM	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	23	44	N	N	Catholic Church bashing or a stab at revisionism?	There are obviously two approaches to works such as these...one is the standard approach that most readers assuredly take and that is to enjoy a gifted author penning a marvelous book (hence the reason for this to be on the best-seller list for what seems like forever). The other of course is to approach this with the historian's view...a view toward the astounding revelations that Brown exposes here about Christ and the actions of the Catholic Church. I, with little theology history background to formulate an informed opinion, lean towards the first approach and wholeheartedly recommend \\"The Da Vinci Code\\" to any and all readers who enjoy a thrilling novel or who enjoy the capability of an author to captivate the reader and truly define that old maxim \\"a page turner\\".<br /><br />This well publicized story is a good one...a murder at the Louvre is so mysterious that it requires a Harvard symbologist and a polce cryptologist to help solve. Clue after clue are uncovered revealing the existence of a secret society that has guarded a powerful secret for ages that, if exposed, would rock the very foundation of Christianity. There are of course the bad guys who would go to any extreme to keep this information secret and this conflict, with it's many plot twists and turns is Brown's stage. Many new perspectives (at least to me) are added to the base understanding of Christ and the Catholic Church that, although controversial, can surely lead one to further study. None of this would have much meaning however if it weren't for a capable author...one who has a marvelous story-telling and story-writing ability. The reader is truly captivated and will have a hard time putting this down...I'd wager that regardless of which theological side you're on, you'll race through this work to see how it ends.<br /><br />So for an astounding revelatory read with an historical bent, you'll do no better than \\"The Da Vinci Code\\". Brown's controversial classic is sure to continue the ages old arguement on Church and Faith, but, if you're able to get past the controversy, you'll enjoy a superlative literary experience.old arguement on Church and Faith, but, if you're able to get past the controversy, you'll enjoy a superlative literary experience.	2005-01-04
US	46220931	R64HC2Y8V9XFP	0060922540	142937770	From Sea to Shining Sea: From the War of 1812 to the Mexican War; The Saga of America's Expansion	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Useful summary of a little covered era in U.S. history...	As the title suggests, this work covers the WARS fought between the Revolution and the Civil War, giving little regard to the political climate or social climate of these \\"expansion\\" times. Still, Robert Leckie presents a well written narrative that is useful to those who's expertise in American history does not cover this area. Not to be used for research and having questionable research documentation, this book is a good introduction to this era and the general reader as well as the amateur historian (again those not well-versed in this area) would do well to use this as a starting point. <br /> <br />Starting with the end of the Revolution, Leckie's narrative  takes the reader to the beginnings of the War of 1812. Correctly assessing that conflict as one where the fledgling U.S. government exercises it's newly gained independence by confronting Great Britan over illegal naval impressments, Leckie covers this conflict in a largley episodic nature. Choosing to discuss the battles that were of prime importance only, we get little to no political or diplomatic perspective...indeed the Treaty of Ghent signaling the end of the War is largely forced upon the reader with little diplomatic buildup and the Louisiana Purchase is given relatively short shrift.  <br /> <br />Leckie's success with this work is his ability to give short, concise but entirely comprehensive biographies of the major characters of the era. Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, Andrew Jackson, Tecumseh, James Monroe, Winfield Scott and Jean Laffite take center stage throughout the chapters that cover the War of 1812 and beyond. This portion of the book makes for good reading and further enforces Leckie's reputation as a historian/storyteller. Post war expansion and frontier fighting capably sets up the last half of the book, Texas Independence and the Mexican-American War. <br /> <br />Blaming the Texas Revolution on the absurd Mexican government policy of unabated immigration, Leckie discusses the causes and personalities that led to the famous struggles at the Alamo, Goliad and San Jacinto. The treacherous and manipulating Santa Anna leads the Mexican forces against the famous trio of William Travis, James Bowie and Davey Crockett at the Alamo and Leckie's narrative really stands out at this point. Converging the Texas Inedependence conflict succinctly into the larger Mexican-American War, Leckie brings to life such personalities as Zachary Taylor, James Knox Polk and a host of future Civil War leaders such as Robert E. Lee, Ulysses \\"Sam\\" Grant, and Thomas \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson. These chapters finally succeed in being comprehensive as the political as well as the military actions are well integrated as we follow the broad struggles from Texas to California culminating with the Mexican surrender outside Mexico City. <br /> <br />Robert Leckie's reputation as a broad-sweeping historian is further enhanced with \\"From Sea to Shining Sea\\". Notably lacking some important aspects that would make this work more cohesive, Leckie nontheless succeeds in bringing this little covered era in U.S. history to light. Well written and pleasing to read, the reader gains some remarkable insight into this period and should use this as the starting point for further study.	2004-12-23
US	46220931	R2XBPMAQF76J3A	0395867614	702211299	Gettysburg	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Exemplary modern analysis of a much studied battle...	The contemporary Civil War historian is truly limited with respect to new revalations concerning most of the major struggles...it becomes the author's challenge then to present a fresh perspective while covering the \\"same old ground\\". The 1863 battle at Gettysburg meets or exceeds this challenge...no other ACW struggle has been covered as completely or as comprehensively as Gettysburg. So why does the renowned Stephen Sears offer us another one volume narrative on something that has been covered completely before? It's because Sears can WRITE and he surely realizes (and thus the general reading public must also realize) that under his talented pen, he can still offer much to the literary cache that is Gettysburg and provide a useful and meaningful new study for modern readers.    Sears's approach is refreshing in that he does not try for revisionist history...he uses his abundant talents to tell the story honestly and comprehensively and in the process, he gives yet another keen perspective to this battle that should be read by all ACW and Gettysburg readers. Starting with R.E. Lee's decision to invade the North in light of his recent victory at Chancellorsville (another excellent Sears study by the way...) and the seemingly imminent Confederate defeat at Vicksburg, Sears recounts the details and tactics that led to the battles at Brandy Station and Winchester and the invasion details that almost led to the Confederate taking of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Sears gives a clear account of these sometime complex manueuvers and expertly sets the stage for the ensuing three days battle.    Troop movement and high level military strategy abound as the battle begins on July 1st...beginning with judicious biographies of the key 1st day players (John Buford, John Reynolds, Henry Heth and Richard Ewell...), Sears lays out the results and discusses the \\"might have beens\\" had certain key elements moved differently. The Federal attainment of the high ground south of town clearly gives the Union the advantage and Sears shows how all parties more or less come to this same conclusion. The second day struggles are shown to be an offspring to the strong disagreement in the Sr. level of the Confederate leadership as James Longstreet and Lee vehemently disagree on that day's battle strategy...Longstreet proves to be right, of course, and this assertion no doubt enhanced his career as far as history is concerned. Sears maintains that had Longstreet's plan been enacted, this would have been a very different battle. Regardless, Sears is deft at descrbing the action that actually took place as he gives glowing accounts of the battle action at the Rose Farm (and villifies Dan Sickles in the process), the Wheatfield, Devils Den and of course Little Round Top where any Joshua Chamberlain fan will be impressed with Sears coverage. The expert analysis is continued with the third day events as Pickett's Charge is described in as clear and concise terms as I've ever read. The two day struggles for Culp's Hill and Cemetery Hill are interspersed with this main line action and Sears completes his impressive work with the cavalry action both at the beginning and the end of the main fighting. Finally, the Confederate retreat back to Virginia and the inevitable explanations for the Union (George Meade) in-action at pursuit are given a fresh look and Sears's discussion puts a different and (in my opinion) more realistic spin on this important period post battle.    So given the rich amount of available works on the battle at Gettysburg, why would anyone want to buy this new one? Again, Stephen Sears is an expert writer, historian and researcher and when someone like this publishes a full-length study of such an important period in American history, it's almost the history reader's duty to indulge...my point here is that if readers take this approach, they will not be disappointed.	2004-10-12
US	46220931	R246ES8YXY0QS8	0933201591	367975836	Champion: Bicycle Racing in the Age of Miguel Indurain	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Idurain the magnificent...	The inevitable comparisons are legion now that Lance Armstrong has won his sixth (and last?) Tour De France this past July. The past winners were all manifested again during the summer of 2004 with the same predictable results...Eddy Merckz was the \\"cannibal\\", the merciless killer among the past 5 time winners...Bernard Hineault was the silent assasin, the least likely looking winner, but perhaps the meanest cycler who ever lived...Jaques Anquetil was the elegant talent, the one who modernized world class cycling in the 60's and of course Armstrong, who is still really establishing his legacy. Who, then is this Miguel Indurain and what \\"category\\" does he fit into? Samuel Abt tries to define Indurain's place in history with \\"Champion: Bicycle Riding in the Age of Indurain\\". The problem, of course, is that this work was published in 1993 and Indurain still had much more to say on the cycling front. <br /> <br />Abt's story is one that I'd sort of compare to the early Roger Angell works on baseball...a set of diverse observations that pertain to the main event...in this case the 1991 and 1992 Tour De France. Abt descibes both races and certainly suceeds in fitting this race into the context of that day...Indurian, like Armstrong 10 years later, is the man to beat and all others, although interesting, will become mere shadows when viewed in Tour history. The reader gets all angles of world class cycling as Abt describes the growing Indurian myth and how Miguel is slowly replacing American Greg LeMond as the celebrity of the cycling world. We also hear from the less talented riders as Abt talks about their chances as well as how the economy is affecting the team structure in the early 90's. Indeed of all the teams that competed in the 1992 Tour, only the Lotto-Domo Belgian team still competed in the 2004 Tour (Indurian's Banesto team is now Illearas-Banesto). <br /> <br />Abt's descriptions and commentary border on brilliance as he succeeds in presenting a human pictureto the world class cycling world and brings to the literay world the only true  historical treatment of the brilliant Indurain that can be found (the Armstrong books by comparison, past and future, overwhelm the published books on Indurain). Abt's work is also timed to descibe the end of Greg Lemond's reign as the American Champion and the book ends with a portent of the future with \\"The First Lance\\" chapter wherby he descibes the young Armstrong and gives glowing predictions of Armstrong's future. <br /> <br />A work that true cycling fans should undertake (Abt does not attempt and does not succeed in clearing up the complex and at times maddening strategy pertaining to Tour riding) and one that sort of sets the stage for the Armstrong on-slaught, Sam Abt brings a truely worthy and capable champion to light and in the process elevates world class cycling to the level soon realized in the early 2000's.   <br /> <br />	2004-09-27
US	46220931	R1UFGJ0QEF0909	0609610236	736759075	Hallowed Ground: A Walk at Gettysburg (Crown Journeys)	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	McPherson gives still another Gettysburg perspective...	In the abstract, the notion of a book replacing an actual tour of the Gettysburg battlefield would seem a little far fetched...until one considers that this assignment is performed by the estimable Civil War author James McPherson. Under his pen, we get an amazingly new and unique perspective on this seminal battle that all Civil War readers should treasure as I certainly did. <br /> <br />Taking a walking tour of the battlefield and having the many anecdotes and stories that McPherson has developed over time and developing it into a small book (about 175 pages), the reader is treated to an intimate session with the master Civil War historian and undoubtedly learns many new and unique things previously lost to time and history. A study devoted to the battlefield as opposed to the battle, McPherson lets us in on things that never made the campaign studies of Coddington, Trudeau, Phanz or Sears...like the fact that many acres of the battlefield are being judiciously reformed back into the state it took in 1863...from clearing land that has since grown over, to re-growing woodland that has been cleared since the battle, or even, amazingly, culling wooded areas to make them resemble the partially wooded areas in 1863, thus giving the touring historian a feal for what that particular area was like back then. An explanation of the many monuments that dot the fields and the many stories associated with their placement will surely entice Civil War buffs with many new stories that add to the Gettysburg legend. All this is interspersed with a summary level discussion of the battle and the main players...all told in McPherson's unique way that combines both the military and the political climates of the times. <br /> <br />A marvelous gem of a book and one that features many new views associated with a battle and time in history that has been covered in many different ways, James McPherson has performed a marvelous service, again, to history and to the general reader. If you're like me, this work will be a vital part of my Gettysburg visit and, frankly, should be a focal point that the National Park Service stresses as a literary companion. A great book!!	2004-09-06
US	46220931	RD2K62XDER896	0252065948	479319793	This Terrible Sound: The Battle of Chickamauga (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Expert treatment of the ACW turning point in the West...	The year 1863 was truly a seminal one for the American Civil War...the famous battles at Chancellorsville, Gettysburg and Vicksburg have all been imminently researched and expounded upon with many very excellent histories published throughout the years. The same unfortunately cannot be said for the equally pivotal and provocative battle at Chickamauga Creek in northwest Georgia (Spetember 1863). Peter Cozzens, then, has added greatly to the abundance of published Civil War histories with \\"This Terrible Sound\\", a modern study of this battle that correctly places it in it's proper context as a major turning point for the Western theatre and indeed the entire war. <br /> <br />Following the Federal victory at Vicksburg, President Lincoln sensing a momentum swing to the Northern effort, places his next great emphasis on the Union Army of the Cumberland, stationed at Murfreesboro, Tennessee following the Federal \\"victory\\" at the battle of Stones River (essentially a standoff with the Confederates retreating following the battle). William Stark Rosecrans' Federal force is \\"encouraged\\" to attack and subdue the rail center at Chattanooga...with the ultimate goal of using it as the base for further invasion efforts in the South. Defending the roads to Chattanooga, is Confederate General Braxton Bragg, the much maligned and, at the time of Chickamauga, the very ill leader of the rebel forces. Cozzens establishes both a physical and mental picture of both Generals that is neither favorable or complimentary. Regardless, Rosecrans establishes the immediate advantage with a detailed and complex troop movement that faces off with and defeates the Confederates at Tullahoma. Outnumbered and in disarray, the rebels retreat to Chattanooga and await Rosecrans next movement. The Federals continue with the complex manuevers and outflank the Confederates, driving them out of Chattanooga and to the southwest into Georgia, where they settle and await the inevitable Union advance. Rosecrans,sensing that he has the Confederate army on the run, allows his troops to squander valuable time negotiating and reconnoitering the mountainous regions south of Chattanooga. The Confederates, meanwhile, reinforce their troops with forces from Mississippi and the Army of Northern Virginia. The armies thus converge and ultimately meet in the dense forest West of Chickamauga Creek in norhtwest Georgia. Cozzens expertly coveys both this initial overall strategy and individual soldier perspective as he sets up the ensuing battle. <br /> <br />Braxton Bragg's intelligence forces inform him that the Federals have advanced southeast into Georgia...giving him the obvious recourse to attack the Union left flank and cut them off from retreat back to Chattanooga. This is the strategy that Bragg sticks with throughout the struggle and the one whereby he proves to be the most inflexable. Cavalry engagements at Jays Mill on the Western side of Chickamauga Creek start the battle and it immediately degenerates into a disorganized and largley unsupervised slugfest. The action rolls to the southwest with major first-day encounters at Winfrey and Brock Fields...ultimately ending with the Federals still in control of the major roadway out of the battlefield, the LaFayette Road and major breastworks established around this road in the Kelly Field. Cozzens deftly describes these engagements in sometimes excruciating detail as brigade and company level strategy is discussed. He also continues to convey the everday soldier perspective with many journal and diary entries that give true meaning to the atrocities of the battle. <br /> <br />The second day's struggles start with an abortive Confederate attack that ensues three hours late. The rebel army's high command continues to be in disarray and Bragg continues to push for the attack to focus on the Federal left. The initial battle around the Kelly Field breastworks results in major destruction for the Confederate forces, but an erroneousbrigade movement opens up a hole in the Federal lines that ultimately proves to be it's undoing. James Longstreet's command from Virginia fortunately charges this opening at the same time that it is established and pushes the right side of the Union army to retreat...only a small and determined force under Union General George Thomas stays on the field and holds off the Confederate advance long enough to allow the balance of the Federal army to retreat back to Chattanooga and ultimately earning him the sobriquet \\"the Rock of Chickamauga\\". Cozzens again is precise and expository in his descriptions of these encounters...he really has a talent for integrating detailed troop movements with these soldier perspectives that give immediacy and feeling to the reader that the soldiers certainly must have felt. The second day bloodshed was worse then the first day's and Cozzens manages this balance brilliantly.  <br /> <br />With the end of the second day, Thomas retreats his force back to Chattanooga and the Confederates own the field. Cozzens again details the lack of forward thinking on Braxton Bragg's part as the natural strategy then would be to pursue the Federals and defeat them in detail...Bragg chooses to wait and is villified by the Confederate command. Rosecrans is releved following the defeat with Thomas commanding the Army of the Cumberland and Ulysses Grant given overall command of the Western Army...a command that turned the tide ultimately in the Union favor with the ensuing victory at the battle of Chattanooga and the William T. Sherman drive from Chattanooga to Atlanta and beyond. <br /> <br />Prompted by a recent visit to this distinguished battlefield (the National Park Service is to be commended for beautifully maintaining this field), I undertook this work to supplement my battlefield tour experience. This book certainly is a detailed look at the battle and I'm sure that my glowing review was slightly slanted by the fact that I was able to picture the terrain that Cozzens so comprehensively describes. Notwithstanding the abundance of detail, this work should undoubtedly stand as the historical standard by which this battle was described and should be on the shelf of anyone interested in the Civil War western theatre.	2004-09-01
US	46220931	R2RU6XXR6N1RW7	1582616523	741739639	David Thompson: Skywalker	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Skywalker comes down-to-earth...	The essence of David Thompson's impact on the NBA and it's fans is captured in the following memory...a playoff game in 1980 with Thompson's Denver Nuggets playing the Seattle Supersonics in the Seattle Kingdome...the game was in it's closing minutes and the outcome was no longer in doubt (Seattle had the game well in hand). Most TV viewers (especially those of us on the East Coast) had already undoubtedly turned off the TV, but I noticed that DT was still in the game. Telling myself to keep watching as Thompson may do something memorable, I kept my attention focused until with about 30 seconds remaining, DT had the ball at the top of the key. Faking left and driving right, he took off from just inside the dotted circle...cuffing the ball in his right hand (at 6' 4\\" his hands were too small to palm the ball), he sailed in and threw down a one-handed windmill tomahawk slam over two amazed Sonics that brought me and the remaining crowd in the Kingdome to it's feet. My mission then complete, I felt it was safe to then turn off the TV and go to bed. <br /> <br />It was with these type of memories that I obtained a copy of Skywalker...I needed to know how this mega-talented legend fell so far. What I got and what other readers of this work will get is a completely honest mea-culpa...straight forward and with no excuses Thompson explains his rise from a shy teenager just discovering that an amazing leaping ability could lead to superstardom to his equally amazing fall from that lofty position. He explains his addictions and insecurities and how these affected him and those he cared about...all culminating with a remarkable recovery topped-off with his induction into the NBA Hall of Fame in 1996. Along the way we also get a first hand account of the building of the legend and an inside look at the 1970's and 80's NBA...the legendary players and unfortunately the legendary drug use. <br /> <br />DT became a nationally known superstar in the early 70's of course as a memberof the National Champion North Carolina State Wolfpack...the team that essentially unseated the mighty UCLA Bruins of John Wooden and Bill Walton (who pens an excellent forward to this book). He shuns the NBA and instead becomes the star of the ABA's Denver Nuggets...further driving a wedge between the leagues that ultimately leads to the 1976 merger. Year after year Thompson sets the bar for \\"high-wire\\", above the rim ball (along with Julius Erving) that preceded Michael Jordan by over 10 years (Jordan admits that Thompson was his main boyhood idol). His career is full of legendary highlights such as the 1976 ABA Slam Dunk contest and culminates in 1979 with his end-of-season battle with George Gervin for the NBA scoring title. Scoring 73 points in the season ending game against the hapless Detroit Pistons, DT takes the lead in the race. Gervin plays that evening and knows exactly how many points he needs to score and breaks through with 63 points of his own against the equally hapless New Orleans Jazz winning the title and adding to his own legend as well. <br /> <br />As important as the basketball side, the personal side of Thompson's story is the strongest part of this work. Thompson's writing style certainly isn't Pulitzer worthy, but it's the force of his story and his uncompromising explanations of his personal problems that capture his audience and is what ultimately sells this book. Cocaine and alchohol drag him down and forces him out the league at a relatively young age...injuries also had much to do with it and he argues that the long term abuse may have led to them. A jail term (where he watches Erving's retirement from the NBA) and many re-hab visits force Thompson to consider building a better life and he becomes a born-again Christian. This is the avenue that ultimately leads to his recovery and Hall of Fame induction in 1996. <br /> <br />A strong read and an important one especially for young fans of the NBA, David Thompson has a strong message for all. Having been at the heights of fame and at the lowest of lows, DT's life takes on an important meaning...all fans and players should read this to see the fragile hold fame has on it's participants. I highly recommend this.   <br />	2004-08-28
US	46220931	R2B7SJDJ684RW8	0451161343	137038717	Thinner (Signet)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Mental as opposed to macabre thriller...	The thing that has always impressed me about Stephen King has been his flourid imagination...how does he think of things like a rabid dog holding a family hostage (Cujo) or a haunted car (Christine)? With &quot;Thinner&quot;, the demented King imagination is again at full throttle as he conjurs up a story of what it would be like if an overweight man were cursed with losing weight at an alarming rate...can he find the answer to reverse it or will he waste away? This is the essence of this work...not classicly written, but still a page turner because the story is so well conceived.<br />As with all Stephen King books, this story flows along at a rapid pace as we find Billy Halleck, a mundane Connecticut lawyer losing an abundance of weight after his trial for hitting and killing a gypsy woman is over. The only reasoning for this weight loss that Halleck can determine is the actions of the gypsy lady's father who rubbed Halleck's face and whispered the word &quot;thinner&quot; in his ear at the end of the trial as he moved on. When the weight loss becomes alarming, Billy decides that the curse is true and decides to confront the gypsy and get him to remove the curse...the resultant chase and ending becomes more a mind game as opposed to a physically morbid tale. The ending is surprising and &quot;classic&quot; Stephen King...as in most of  King's work, the least suspected outcome is the one that ensues and leaves the reader a little amazed.<br />An easy read that goes fairly quickly, this is a perfect summer light read that most fans of psychological thrillers should enjoy.	2004-07-15
US	46220931	R1A23HJV4G9WQZ	0375504494	39813584	Grace and Power: The Private World of the Kennedy White House	Books	5	45	50	N	N	&quot;Camelot&quot; re-revealed magnificently...	The essence of &quot;Camelot&quot; wasn't necessarily the inspiring leadership of John Kennedy (although this certainly doesn't hurt the Camelot mystique) or the seemingly serene picture of the youngest elected President and his equally youthful wife, rather it was a culture, indeed an attitude or mystique that many historians have tried to capture with heretofore moderate to little success. In this light, Sally Bedell Smith has presented her attempt at synthesizing the mystique with the well documented history of JFK's administration and has succeeded fabulously with &quot;Grace and Power&quot;.<br />The perspective that Smith presents is one that many historians have missed...in a day when JFK administration books abound, Smith gives us a whole new view into the Kennedy family. Right from the beginning of this work, we delve into the personal and behavorial side of both the new President and his First Lady and see how they are in turn affected by the avalanche of the media and policy machine. JFK's full medical history (recently made public in Robert Dallek's magnificent work &quot;An Unfinished Life&quot;) is further explained by Smith with many new nuances and she describes how these many maladies not only affected his work as President, but his family life as well. Indeed, we see JFK's covert doctor (Max Jacobson...&quot;Dr. Feelgod&quot;) administering to Jackie as well (during periods of stress or depression) and it's this level of new information, presented not in a tawdry gossipy style, but in fair and elegant prose, that really made this work hard for me to put down. JFK's dalliances with many other women comes to be a main theme at the beginning of the story and we see how Jackie's attitude of benign acceptance at this behavior is formed over time in the White House. At the same time, Smith suceeds in presenting JFK as a loving Father and husband...further enhancing this mysterious component of JFK's behavior.<br />The social scene at the JFK White Houseis comprehensively descibed...at times offering a counter-balance with what is happening in the world and I thought this added a fullness to the Kennedy story that is usually missing from many otherwise excellent JFK works. For example we see the dinners and the guests who attended them given equal importance in the book while the emotion and stress of the Cuban Missile Crisis is distracting the President. How JFK reacts at these events (i.e. away from &quot;work&quot;) is a fascinating new look at the Crisis and Administration as a whole and is this new information that I mentioned that should be the selling point for this work. Closing out the book, Smith eloquently descibes the before and after affects of the assasination on all the participants (old girlfriends as well as close family friends) and tries to philosophize on what the tragedy meant to each.<br />Historians may argue that the level of scholarship pertaining to Presidential history is lacking (although, I thought Smith did an admirable job describing the events that she did cover), but clearly the focus of this work was not a historical narrative but a genuine social/historical synthesis. <br />Supported by many new interviews and research, Sally Bedell Smith has added immensly to the monumental amount of literature surrounding the JFK administration and given us a unique perspective that should be used by all as an emotional target for that magnificent and tragic time. A fairly quick read (about 470 pages of readable text) and lively written, I would recommend this book very highly.	2004-07-04
US	46220931	R19QO9R5WB1RB	0060086513	88466344	Trading With the Enemy: Seduction and Betrayal on Jim Cramer's Wall Street	Books	5	18	20	N	Y	Inside Wall Street &quot;laid bare&quot;...	To say that Jim Cramer is &quot;intense&quot; masks the true nature of this man's character...if what Nicholas Maier tells us is true, the general public should be very worried that people like Cramer are handling billions of dollars of assets and have an important say in the country's financial security. I was literally appalled at the nature of the day trading depicted in the fast-moving world of hedge funds and can think of no reason why the SEC let this continue when they had a chance to stop it. This is the type of emotion, I'd wager, that Maier solicited when he wrote this otherwise fine account of life on Wall Street. &quot;Trading with the Enemy&quot; is a fast-paced and wide-open telling of what it was like to work at Wall Street for Cramer and Co. in the mid 90's under the psychotic oversight of Jim Cramer and a testament to the abuses of money and power that this type of environment sows.<br />The story starts innocently enough with a young, seemingly un-motivated recent college grad who's interested in the American dream of making it rich in the stock market. Nicholas Maier uses his connections to procure a job at Cramer and Co., then the leading hedge fund on Wall Street. Once in, Maier learns very quickly just how this high octane world operates and starts a 5 year period of constant self-justification working for a maniacal, but otherwise brilliant stock market trader. The reader is led down the path of insider trading and we learn all about the ins and outs of trading thousands of shares of stock for major profit. We also learn that to make this kind of money, it requires an almost insane boss who's insecurities abound as he's able to dismantle the complex world of stock trading and see the market as others don't. Mental and sometimes physical abuses (he has to avoid flying computer monitors on more than one occasion) are the norm that Maier has to endure in this company, but so is the high-energy environment that he craves and becomes addicted to. Slowly, the mental anguish overtakes the addiction and Maier becomes one of the many casualties that Cramer lays waste to in his career. What this results in is an almost unbelievable story of being subjugated to a character that often refuses to take his medication (much needed I might add) and one that assumes the attitude of a general going to war...frought with all the tactics and betrayals that &quot;everything is fair in war&quot; surmises. Cramer knows no bounds (mentally or physically) in getting what he wants and goes berserk at something as comparetively trivial as selling thousands of shares at an eighth of a point lower than he thought.<br />To compensate, Maier turns to drugs and finally decides that he's had enough...fortunately for us, he majored in Writing and Literature in college and pens a revealing expository that should be required reading for all young brokers. In fact, the only criticism of this work that I can come up with is that the story ends too quickly...we go from hearing about the initial stages of his substance abuse to his walking out the door in only a matter of a few pages. I would have liked him to expand on this a little more.<br />To be fair, I suppose that one should read Cramer's account of this period (&quot;Confessions of a Street Addict&quot;) to get his perspective, but the overwhelming theme won't change I'll bet. For those who want to learn about the inner workings of Wall Street, this book will be a powerful introduction. Fast paced and imminently readable, one comes away from this work with a sort of bitter taste...one that says that it takes this kind of personality (Cramer's) to control the market and to make major money when there could be alternatives that could be equally successful.	2004-06-15
US	46220931	R2EWAY6VQ1ZI5N	067145711X	7859309	The Great Bridge: The Epic Story of the Building of the Brooklyn Bridge	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	&quot;...and yet the bridge is beautiful...&quot;	In this day and age, what the name David McCullough means to part-time history buffs and amatuer historians (like myself) is excellence in writing, research and comprehensiveness. This reputation was undoudbtedly built based on classics like &quot;The Great Bridge&quot;, written in 1972. Herein, the reader is exposed to spectactular writing and research that not only covers the planning and building of the Brooklyn Bridge, but indeed a history of the Gilded Age in New York city. With an enlightening style and insight that exceeds most other histories, McCullough defines &quot;readable history&quot; and in the process produces a classic that has and will continue to be the apex of literary history.<br />And what a story it is! Following the Civil War, master bridge builder John Roebling decides that a great suspension bridge between Brooklyn and New York city (present day Manhattan) is not only needed, but would continue his reputation as bridge builder par-excellance. His son, Civil War General Washington Roebling (notable at Gettysburg and Petersburg) becomes Chief Engineer when his father tragically dies during the initial stages of construction on the bridge and proceeds to project an aura of moral integrity and spiritual &quot;high-ground&quot; that sets the tone for the subsequent 14 years that it took to complete this masterpiece. McCullough's account documents this and goes on to explain the initial planning and technical issues of such a massive project. The theory of suspension bridges and all the engineering technicalities is succinctly described by McCullough and this base understanding is what the rest of the story is based on (wires/cable hung form two large towers is the base format).<br />The construction of the (2) towers is eloquently descibed at the sinking of the timber caissons (large &quot;rooms&quot; made of timber that the stone towers were to be built upon) and the subsequent details of working within them. Frustration abounds as the the Brooklyn side tower caisson goes slower than planned and McCullough describes the technical problems along with an amazingingly comprehensive discussion of the &quot;mysterious maladay&quot;, ultimately known as the &quot;bends&quot;. Worker-level stories surface here to give immediacy to the story and McCullough is masterful at describing them. The cable construction and subsequent controversey surrounding the contract and testing of the steel/iron would be boring to most readers, but McCullough makes this an intriguing part of the story.<br />The political side of the bridge construction is not given short-shrift either as McCullough deftly descibes New York city Gilded era politics and specifically discloses the rise and fall of the &quot;Boss Tweed Ring&quot; and Tammany politics in general. This side of the bridge story, McCullough states, is as important to the final product as the engineering and construction...again, he makes this exceedingly readable while extolling it's importance to the story. Commitee upon commitee are formed to decide on both the technical and personal issues associated with project completion and here is where the controversy surrounding Washington Roebling's health (he was an unfortunate victim of the bends among other things) and mental capacity are manifested upon the completion...McCullough is again masterful at integrating this major poltitcal milestone with the story.<br />The last few chapters are dedicated to describing completion and subsequent public reaction to the bridge and McCullough is superb at depicting late 19th century life in New York. The celebration on May 20th 1883 is a grand one and is placed in perspective in the last paragraph of the book:<br />&quot;In another time and in what would seem another world, on a day when two young men were walking on the moon, a very old woman on Long Island would tell reporters that the public excitement over the feat was not so much compared to what she had seen 'on the day they opened the Brooklyn Bridge' &quot;<br />Having walked and driven over the bridge many times, and having derived the name for my daughter from it, I can say that I have a somewhat personal stake and appeal in it. I also can say that I never gave a second thought about it's construction or the fascinating story that went into building it when I walked and drove it, until now. My compliments to David McCullough for giving us a marvelous story and book and giving those of us who've taken the bridge for granted a new perspective. I can't wait to go back and view it with this new knowledge of it's consruction and I'd wager that this is David McCullough's greatest gift...I give this work my highest recommendation.	2004-06-06
US	46220931	R2QQ6P3VTUZRJU	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fast paced action novel with an historical bent...	Eminently readable and encompassing a break-neck pace, \\"Pompeii\\" by Robert Harris is a delightful, action-filled novel that also has a unique historical side that should appeal to all readers. Under the aegis of the imminent eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in Roman dominated Italy in 79 A.D., Harris presents us with Marcus Attilius, a young Roman engineer who's suddenly charged with oversight of the massive Aqua Augusta when it's former manager disappears inexplicably and with troubleshooting of a seemingly damaged section of the Augusta. <br />Right from the start, subtle clues and occurances force Attilius to consider that this is not a normal maintenance project. Coupled with the rougue state of the characters under his command, Attilius sets out to find whats wrong with his beloved Augusta. Character development and subtle plot twists overlay the coming disaster and Harris is superb at describing Roman life and 1st century Italy as it fits this story. What Attilius discovers and how he finds himself ensconsed in the tragedy is brilliantly depicted by Harris...we not only get a first-rate thriller, but an important geology lesson as well (Harris supplements each chapter with an excerpt from his various sources of scholarship on Volcanology).<br />The apex of this work is without doubt the eruption of Vesuvius and how each character is then affected. Using the afore mentioned sources of Volcanology, Harris paints a truely realistic picture of what that massive explosion was like and the immediate after-affects on the towns and country-side. Without giving too much of the ending away, Harris provides an entertaining and plausible conclusion that should please all readers.<br />Whether your interested in geology, Roman history or just enjoy an action-filled read, \\"Pompeii\\" should satisfy all these needs. Robert Harris is to commended for expert research and sublime story-telling that should make Pompeii not only a great story, but an important source on the Vesuvius eruption. I would not hesitate to recommend this work very highly.	2004-05-07
US	46220931	R3CKQ93OH8VRTQ	0471267368	510489797	The Fall of the Berlin Wall	Books	5	30	30	N	N	The denouement of the Cold War...	Before reading this surprisingly succinct work by William F.Buckley, it would have been hard for me to imagine a comprehensive Cold War history consolidated into 192 pages of text. But under the amazingly capable pen of Buckley, the reader learns all the highlights (lowlights?) of this seminal period in International history.<br />Starting with the Four-Power agreement in post WWII Germany, we see the numerous policy offenses initiated by the USSR as they grasp for power by forming the Eastern Bloc of socialist countries. Nowhere is this skewed outlook more evident than in war-torn and politically seperated Germany...specifically, it's capital in Berlin. We see immediately, the subversion encountered by the citizens of East Berlin and their realization that life would be best lived outside this repressive regime. The outpouring of the population to the West is, of course, the reason that the Wall is erected...thus symbolically subjugating Eastern Europe to over 30 years of repressive treatment. Communist/Socialist leaders from Walter Ulbricht to Erich Honecker are analyzed and dismissed as their policies reflect the repressive attitude that Communism endows on it's subjects...while at the same time it's leaders live in comparative luxury. Buckley provides these insights with a wit and writing style that makes it easy to understand this subversion and frustration that all in the East must have felt during this period. Documenting the many attrocities enacted by the East Germans as the Wall is erected and further enhanced throughout the 60's, Buckley takes the reader along for the many inside dealings that the East tried to legitimize and enhance it's regime on the International stage.<br />Major Cold War events such as the Hungarian uprising in 1956, the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 and the &quot;Prague Spring&quot; in 1968 are connected with Buckley's wry commentary that also ties in the human component to these major events. We see American General Lucious Clay stare down the Soviets at Checkpoint Charlie and see how this strength of character was unfortunately a rareity in American policy towards the Soviet Union...rare until that confleunce of major Cold War revisionists Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev enacted several initiatives that ultimately lead not only to the destruction of the Wall, but the end of Communism and, more specifically, the Soviet Union itself. Buckley covers all this in an amazingly comprehensive manner and closes out the book with the enacting of the Democratic government that exists in a unified Germany today.<br />If a short, to-the-point comprehensive history of the Cold War and the rise and fall of the Berlin Wall is what you're looking for, than this is the book for you. Beautifully written and covering all the major seminal periods of the Cold War, Buckley enhances his reputation as a political writer and serves the public well with &quot;The Fall of the Berling Wall&quot;. This is a work that I'd recommend highly.	2004-05-07
US	46220931	R3QTP8HD2ZZZVR	0804748462	171161191	Averting 'The Final Failure': John F. Kennedy and the Secret Cuban Missile Crisis Meetings (Stanford Nuclear Age Series)	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	The REAL insider story of the Missiles of October...	This is the book, I'd wager, that everyone thought they were getting when they purchased &quot;The Kennedy Tapes&quot; (Zelikow and May, 1997 Harvard Press). After struggling through that seminal work, the need for a narrative form of this compelling side of the Missile Crisis was palpable...fortunately, retired JFK Library historian Sheldon Stern also saw the need and completed what was clearly a passionate &quot;life's work&quot; with &quot;Averting the Final Failure&quot;. Stern takes years of study and scrutinization of the White House tapes that eavesdropped on the EXCOMM (Executive Committee of the National Security Council) as they advised and debated the day-to-day issues associated with the Crisis and turned a complex story into an amazingly lucid and cogent narrative that should become THE source for White House activities during the Crisis.<br />Newly declassified and available, Stern has added immensly to the growing amount of literature/transcripts of these profound tapes. The difference here is that Stern is clearly the one who has spent the most time and study on these tapes and, coupled with his surprisingly apt story-telling capability, has developed an authoritative work that defines the &quot;who? what? where? when? and how?&quot; of the Kennedy advisor &quot;inner-workings&quot;. Time and again, Stern destroys myths and legends as his narrative describes each meeting and the theme that each one invoked. He interprets each discussion and adds his own attempt at tone and voice inflection to give not only the content of the discussion, but the &quot;atmosphere&quot; as well. The result is almost as good as hearing the tapes themselves...giving the true feel for what these &quot;Best and Brightest&quot; advisors went through.<br />The story of course has been told time and again...Soviet leader Nikita Khrushev surreptitiously installs nuclear capable missiles and the associated warheads in Communist ally Cuba and this subversion is discovered with American U2 spy plane photography. The subsequent actions taken by the U.S. government are fortunately recorded on a complex White House taping system by President John Kennedy, thus providing an invaluable insight into this provocative period in the Cold War. Unfortunately, these recordings leave much to be desired in terms of quality and many have attempted to transcibe them into a useful tool for historians. The &quot;Kennedy Tapes&quot; book attempted to publish the full transcriptions, but this work was so disjointed that it tended to confuse more than educate. Stern, having initially supported this effort by Zelikow and May, becomes more and more dismayed with the quality of this transcribing work and decides to offer his own interpretation of the tapes and the Crisis. Having spent many years analyzing them (long before they were declassified) he provides an amazing insight and scholarship, while clearing up many &quot;unclear&quot; voice transcriptions.<br />Taking all this information and recognizing that just another publication of transcripts would not be useful, he decides on a version that describes these actions on the tapes in narrative form. He clears up the collateral chatter and keeps a thematic focus on the narrative and comes up with a wonderfully clear and concise coverage of this event. More than just an interpretation of tapes, Stern also accompanies the narrative with a surprisingly readable summary of events and, happily, a destruction of many of the afore mentioned myths that have survived throughout the years. Well known Crisis stories such as Robert Kennedy's &quot;hawkish&quot; anti-Communist stance, the deception and negotiations of the agreement to extract nuclear missiles from Turkey as a trade for extraction of the missiles from Cuba and the continued iintransigence of Fidel Castro and the Cuban government are denounced here by Stern...offering a new and embellished perspective on the Crisis. Kenndy's &quot;free-wheeling&quot; meeting style is amazingly supported by the tapes and stand in stark contrast to the popular theme presented in such movies as &quot;The Missiles of October&quot; and &quot;Thirteen Days&quot;...an example being JFK's response to the shooting down of an American U2 spy plane at the height of the Crisis on October 27th...the movie version has JFK and the EXCOMM loudly debating retaliatory responses when in reality JFK's calm and measured response was: &quot;...this is an escalation by them isn't it?&quot; and the meeting went on.<br />&quot;Averting the Final Failure&quot; comes 42 years following the denouement of the Missile Crisis and thouroughly ties together all loose ends associated with White House activities during those heady 13 days. This is an important and monumental addition to the vast amount of literature available on the Crisis and should be considered the first reference used by historians for the White House perspective of the Crisis...I would overwhelmingly recommend this work to anyone interested in those activities in October, 1962.	2004-04-16
US	46220931	R1B8RDG9FG5BYI	0823077489	35465751	Possessed: The Rise and Fall of Prince	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Rave Un2 the "Enigma" Fantastic...	The epitomy of the classic \\"rock star\\", Prince has seemingly taken an inspired career and turned it into a sort of ironic mystery...author Alex Hahn presents this theory using an amazing access to personal subjects and un-released music to destroy the mystique and bring Prince into the general public's eye for all to scrutinize. What we find is a sort of mini-demagogue who remains brilliant musically, but suffers from many years of petulant behavior to systematically reduce his faithful following and, unfortunately, become nothing more than a cult figure.<br />Back in 1985, however, the thought of Prince being anything but a major musical influence and icon would be inconceivable...this was following the final push to superstardom that \\"Purple Rain\\", the record and movie, provided and the country/music industry was agog at what the next Prince project might be. Of course, the underwhelming and self-aggrandizing \\"Around the World in a Day\\" was the next release and this started the downward spiral that continues to this day. Author Hahn attempts to analyze this with \\"Possessed\\" and he brings it off with an amazing balance...remaining true to his literary responsibilites, he paints a realistic and forthcoming picture of the tortured musician. At once brilliant in the conceiving and performing of cutting edge music while at the same time displaying a curious bewilderment at the ever changing face of popular music, Prince remains the mystery that he so fervently relishes and in the process has virtually destroyed any fan base that could resurrect his career.<br />A stunningly comprehensive biography, Hahn shows the entire Prince career from his childhood up to and including the 2001 release of \\"The Rainbow Children\\". Riding the emotional and psychological roller-coaster that was Prince, we see the meteoric rise and subsequent demise of this influential artist and also the human waste he laid as a side product...his (Prince's) treatment of \\"friends and associates\\" is disturbing and speakes to (in my opinion) a lingering psychosis. Conversely, Hahn, again using amazing access to unreleased recorded material, shows Prince to be prolific and brilliant in his conception of and performance of many major turns in his musicianship. Indeed, the few unreleased tracks that I have personally heard would make for a great album and it's hard to conceive that this level of great music is still \\"in the vault\\".<br />Hahn covers all the important episodes in this star-crossed career...even sharing some new information that former \\"hard-core\\" fans never knew...the homosexual relationship of Wendy Melvoin and Lisa Coleman was new to me and I was a fan at the inception of the \\"Revolution\\"...the interaction of fellow musicians and subsequent denial of artistic credit (i.e. Rosie Gaines and Melvoin) is part of this afore mentioned disturbing psychotic behavior and was also a surprise to me. What astounded me the most, however, was the continued denial on the part of Prince towards the burgeoning rate of change in the popular music world and his denail of this fact. He continued to think that he was one record away from the \\"Purple Rain\\" type of mega-stardom and Hahn presents this part of the story in sober terms...I certainly felt the frustration that most fans assuredly went through and this feeling is the most prevelant throughout this work. Time and again, a new idea or initiative was started by Prince, only to be reduced or disintegrated by the ever-present \\"haughtiness\\" that only served to limit his career growth and is something that he continues to pay for in his musical standing today.<br />Hahn does serve the music fan well, however, with his many reviews of some of Prince's classic music...he raves about \\"Controversy\\", \\"1999\\", \\"Sign O the Times\\" and, of course \\"Purple Rain\\". Some of the later works (\\"Graffiti Bridge\\", \\"Lovesexy\\" and \\"Emancipation\\") that I thought were pure genius were sort of described as episodic and partly rationalized into the spiraling downward turn in Prince's career and music...unfairly, I felt, but an opinion that I respected given the depth of Hahn's research. Closing out the book is an impressive discography of all Prince's works and his part assisitance in others (Bangles, Stevie Nicks, Sheena Easton...etc).<br />Whether you love him or hate him...or even if you're just a popular music fan in general, you'd do well to read about the rise and fall of Prince in this book. A more interesting story you won't find (yes even given the latest Michael Jackson fiascos) and a story that has you at once criticising and conversely hoping for a more fortunate outcome, Alex Hahn is to be commended for a comprehensive, scholarly and entertaining look at one of Rock's remianing mysteries. I recommend this book very highly.the spiraling downward turn in Prince's career and music...unfairly, I felt, but an opinion that I respected given the depth of Hahn's research. Closing out the book is an impressive discography of all Prince's works and his part assisitance in others (Bangles, Stevie Nicks, Sheena Easton...etc).<br />Whether you love him or hate him...or even if you're just a popular music fan in general, you'd do well to read about the rise and fall of Prince in this book. A more interesting story you won't find (yes even given the latest Michael Jackson fiascos) and a story that has you at once criticising and conversely hoping for a more fortunate outcome, Alex Hahn is to be commended for a comprehensive, scholarly and entertaining look at one of Rock's remianing mysteries. I recommend this book very highly.	2004-03-01
US	46220931	RZK26JDBNFMGN	0684807610	438783610	Benjamin Franklin: An American Life	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The avatar of &quot;leather-apron&quot; pragmatisim...	Clearly, Walter Isaacon's goal is to portray Benjamin Franklin with a whole new, sort of revisionistic realism. And he suceeds marvelously with this narrative that captures both the myth and pragmatic side of one of our more eccentric founding fathers. This is historical biography on a grand scale and surely will stand the test of time as the standard work on Franklin and,  indeed on the founding of our nation.<br />What can be said of Franklin that hasn't been documented before? That he was at once an extraordinarily disciplined, virtuous man while maintaining an &quot;everyday&quot; humanistic side can not be argued. That he was, gratefully, a visionary who was in large part responsible for forming a type of government unheard of or unseen before in the annals of time is also unquestioned. That he had a unique mind and penchant for scientifically detailed analysis which served him and his time well and put him years ahead of his contemporaries is absolutely without doubt. The goal, then, of any new work on Franklin is to re-introduce these virtues to a new generation of readers and to attempt to seperate the man from the myth...this is the task that Isaacson performs amazingly well with this work. To call this an ordinary biography is to call McCullough's &quot;Truman&quot;, Caro's &quot;Master of the Senate&quot; or Morris' &quot;Theodore Rex&quot; ordinary...this is the level of literary genius that Isaacson has achieved here in my opinion and it's a work that needs to be seriously considered by all historians or general readers.<br />Covered in narrative form, we see Isaacson build Franklin's story from his early days in Boston to his inspiring entrepreneurship in Philadelphia. His early work at the printing press and as an amatueur publisher lead him in becoming a local literary visionary. His &quot;Poor Richard's Almanac&quot; and other published works show Franklin to be the sort of personality that ultimately leads to greater &quot;revolutionary&quot; thinking later on. Isaacson also gives fair coverage to Franklin's ever growing scientific and social works activities as his inventions and improvements on items such as stoves and his organization of various groups ranging from fire departments to local lending libraries make him a leader in early American society. Able to retire at 40 years old (due to his famous frugality and industry), we then see the middle aged Frankilin become a major character on the world stage, first with his invention/discovery of the lightening rod and then, slowly, as a revolutionary activist. This activity leads of course to political aspirations and Franklin goes from a Pennsylvania delegate at the first Contenental Congress to diplomatic roles representing colonial interests in Great Britan. It's there that Franklin loses his passion and confidence in the royal government and where this book really takes off.<br />Franklin hesitantly refutes the Stamp Act, returns to America to become a leading figure in the revolt and then returns to England where he starts his service as a career diplomat...it's in this period that Franklin becomes the world leader and thinker that makes him such a renowned figure and also where he forms his vision of our ultimate form of government. Isaacson deftly weaves all this into incredibly readable detail while never sacrificing comprehensiveness. Franklin's personal life, displayed with the generous use of many personal letters and diaries show a different side that form a personality that's rich, somewhat flawed and always entertaining...he's certainly able to &quot;wink&quot; at us from this lofty Founding Father position and Isaacson melds all this into the narrative.<br />Frankiln's work at securing first the French intervention into the Revolutionary War and ultimately the peace treaty with England necessarily make up the greater portion of the book, while his activities in France also add to his legendary mystique. Interaction and correspondance with famous personalities such as John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and George Washington are offset with practical letters to his wife and children/grandchildren that give a unique biographical balance and add a richness to the story not seen in many historical accounts.<br />To say that Franklin was just a diplomat or just a scientist or just a founding father is really cliche...he was all these things and more and Walter Isaacson combines all this into a beautiful narrative that does justice to Franklin and to history in general...I would recommend this work to any general reader or historian and I'm sure that most would agree that &quot;Benjamin Franklin&quot; stands out and is not your ordinary history book.ous personalities such as John Adams, Thomas Jefferson and George Washington are offset with practical letters to his wife and children/grandchildren that give a unique biographical balance and add a richness to the story not seen in many historical accounts.<br />To say that Franklin was just a diplomat or just a scientist or just a founding father is really cliche...he was all these things and more and Walter Isaacson combines all this into a beautiful narrative that does justice to Franklin and to history in general...I would recommend this work to any general reader or historian and I'm sure that most would agree that &quot;Benjamin Franklin&quot; stands out and is not your ordinary history book.	2004-02-22
US	46220931	R1EOOC1ID4DC71	0142000663	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Centennial Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	...the grapes of wrath are filling and growing heavy.	Interpretation of great American literature usually requires some perspective...indeed one must have lived a large portion of life to fully appreciate it's hardships. This philosophy is never more evident than when considering John Steinbeck's &quot;The Grapes of Wrath&quot;. At once a testament to human fortitude while also a study for the historian to obtain a more humanistic perspective on the Great Depression, Steinbeck achieves a sort of literary pantheon with this timeless classic.<br />This is the story of the everyday mid-western crop farmer during the great &quot;dust-bowl&quot; tragedy of the Depression. Forced by economic and personal factors to disband their farms and land (leaving generations of family history behind), they head to California to start anew with the promise of economic stability. Alas, this notion is soon discovered to be false as life there becomes even more destitute than the one that they have just left. Steinbeck's fictitious Joad family most assuredly mirrors the many similar groups that actually made this treck across a suddenly barren mid-western United States. Hardships and sorrows accrue as their savings run out and the promise of work becomes an ever lengthening ideal. Steinbeck presents a tome that emphatically enforces this personal sorrow while maintaining a fast paced novel thats unique in literary circles. Historical accuracy is never compromised as Steinbeck keeps the State and Federal governments' skewed Depression Era's economic policies at the forefront of the story and shows how these mis-guided actions indirectly become the driver for Franklin Roosevelts &quot;New Deal&quot; policies.<br />The overriding virtue of this work, however, is Steinbeck's ability to take the reader along and make him a part of the story. Time and again, I truly felt the compelling sadness and overwhelming desperation of the Joads plight and when this is coupled with the  incredible &quot;readability&quot; of the story, one can see why this work has long been considered &quot;the great American novel&quot;. Having half-heartedly read this in high-school, I'd submit that it should be re-read by those who now have families and responsibilities...a new appreciation will most assuredly be gained and I give this my highest recommendation.work has long been considered &quot;the great American novel&quot;. Having half-heartedly read this in high-school, I'd submit that it should be re-read by those who now have families and responsibilities...a new appreciation will most assuredly be gained and I give this my highest recommendation.	2004-02-07
US	46220931	R98RGFDKM6876	0807827452	1186759	Lee's Last Retreat: The Flight to Appomattox	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Myths destroyed by revisionist history...	The denouement of the Civil War in the East has been the subject of many volumes from noted historians and battle participants. All seem to paint this episode as some grandiloquent occasion with diplomatic surrender actions from both sides. William Marvel's latest work attempts to refute many of these myths and he indeed does succeed at making this seem like any other Civil War skirmish with \\"Lee's Last Retreat: The Flight to Appomattox\\".<br />Targeting mainly the versions of the Confederate surrender rendered in later post-war years by John B. Gordon and Joshua Chamberlain, Marvel proves that these accounts are largely ficticious and laiden with numerous self aggrandizing points. Marvel systematically shows that the Confederate retreat from Petersburg and the subsequent chase by the Union forces was a desperate action bent on consolidating Southern forces in North Carolina and (hopefully) extending the struggle. The final surrender at Appomattox then, under Marvel's pen, is an anti-climactic action by an exhausted army and leader.<br />Using in depth narrative and many first-person accounts and diary/journal entries, Marvel recreates the military atmosphere prevelant during the early April 1865 timeframe when the Confederate rebellion reached it's conclusion. The end of the Petersburg siege starts the book and Marvel discusses in detail the actions taken by R.E. Lee's forces to escape from this front and the capital at Richmond to march West towards Amelia Courthouse. Many rearguard battles ensue as the escape route gets very complex with many Confederate divisions and brigades involved. The first myth is dissolved when Marvel refutes the long-held opinion that this escape was essentially doomed by the lack of Confederate provisions at Amelia Courthouse. Marvel shows us that Lee's inability to coordinate troop movements from this hamlet were much more restrictive than the lack of food and is very convincing in his analysis of this argument.<br />The Confederate plans for troop consolidation at Farmville are overlayed with the multi-pronged Union pursuit and Marvel presents a compelling account of the \\"race\\" westward. The seminal battle at Sailor's Creek is analyzed and shown to be the epoch that finally demoralizes the rebellion. Confederate infantry movement and subsequent Union pursuit ultimately end at Appomattox Courthouse and Marvel discusses the details that lead Lee to ask for surrender terms and for U.S. Grant to agree. The soldier actions following the surrender meeting between Grant and Lee at the Wilmer McLean house (the height of the Gordon and Chamberlain accounts) are given short shrift in Marvel's look...this implies that the mythical emotional surrender cerimonies were largely fabrications.<br />For criticisms, the major problem with this book is the lack of maps...Marvel discusses in detail virtually all of the military actions from Petersburg to Appomattox and the maps that he uses show no troop movements or battle fronts at all. Because this story encompasses many complex maneuvers, the narrative subsequently becomes very limited in terms of following the action due to paucity of maps and the reading quality suffers severely. Another criticism (though not as critical as the map critique) is the fact that although we understand where and when troops move, we don't necessarily get a true feeling of desperation on the part of the Confederate forces. The frustration and hopelesness of the military actions must have been palpable at this point but Marvel continues with the narrative like this was a discussion of Antietam or Fredericksburg...not the end of the war. This point, if expanded, would also have led greatly to improved reading quality and ultimately leaves the Civil War reader no other recourse than to wait for the final Gordon Rhea book in his excellent analysis of this period of the war to (hopefully) get this perspective.<br />Revisionist history is sometimes a dangerous undertaking. Many pantheons in history die hard and much criticism is levied at writers that try to change the accepted story. William Marvel, then, is to be commended for his courageous attempt at righting the wrong long assumed in the surrender of the Confederate forces at Appomattox Courthouse. Lacking some key components that would make this a stellar work, he succeeds nontheless in presenting a comprehensive and important account concerning the end of the Civil War in the East and I would recommend that all interested readers of this conflict attempt this work.	2004-01-21
US	46220931	R2JYADERQNKBRG	0316172383	695695888	An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Thoughtful appraisal of a difficult &amp; tragic administration	Indeed, why another JFK biography? The answer of course is that good history writing is timeless and Robert Dallek writes good history. In this exemplary work, Dallek covers the life of JFK as it's never been covered before...relying on new information regarding JFK's medical history, Dallek pens a marvelous history while maintaining personal touch with his subject and the result is historical biography on a David McCullough level.<br />John Kennedy's life of course has been the subject of much scrutinization and it is indeed rare when new information is unearthed. We learn how Kennedy and his family/associates hid his many ailments and how in spite of these he gains the highest political office in America. Dallek thus manages to shed JFK's character in a new light and, while still showing his many faults, adds another component to his already legendary reputation. <br />Born into a life of privilege and intense sibling competition, the young JFK is no standout, mainly due to the effects that his parents had on him. His mother was surprisingly distant emotionally and his father fostered an incredibly difficult and competitive homelife that submerges him in his brother Joseph's shadow. We see an almost apathetic Jack going through the motions at the finest schools, while beginning to show the symptoms of his many ailments that trouble him for the rest of his life. JFK's military career is given a fresh look and we learn of the subterfuge on the part of his father to get him in the Navy as an officer. Dallek correctly points this out as the beginning of his father's almost maniacal control of his career and we see how JFK uses these opportunities to make a reputation for himself. He of course becomes a military hero with the rescue of his crew aboard PT-109 and garners a congressional election based on this feat. The Senate is his next goal and again his father (now giving JFK his full attention following the death of his son Joseph) uses his major influence and, moreimportantly, his monetary standing to push him over the edge. Dallek covers Kennedy's House and Senate record with balance and an astute eye towards actions that have little effect on legislation, but have major effect on his future political outlook. Also, at this point we see the disturbing trend in Kennedy's character for personal recklesness and careless behavior. Dallek attributes this initially to his emotional shunning as a child and the effect that his growing medical maladies have on his psyche...Kennedy shows an incredible fatalism even at this relatively early stage in life.<br />The bulk of this work and the major focus of Dallek's analysis is of course Kennedy's Presidential term. The monolithic 1960 election victory over Richard Nixon and the initial stages of Camelot set the stage for the memorable Kennedy administration. Dallek uses his immense talent in describing the Bay of Pigs failure and Kennedy's subsequent political recovery. The Cold War competition escalates in legendary proportions as foreign issues such as Berlin, Cuba and the arms race with the Soviet Union top Kennedy's agenda. Dallek describes these in comprehensive, but also readable, detail from Kennedy's perspective and we get a true sense of the man and how he overcomes the towering restraints of this new job.<br />Kennedy grows into the Presidency and creates his aura with his performance during the Cuban Missile Crisis. Dallek uses the latest White House tape transcripts during this crisis and presents new scholarship and perspective that no JFK biography had until now. He shows how Kennedy managed the crisis while at the same time increasing his levels of dangerous medication. Indeed, we see Kennedy as attentive and cogent throughout while outshining even the &quot;best and brightest&quot; of his administration.<br />The other important issues of JFK's Presidency are also placed under the Dallek microscope and we see Kennedy's sometimes brilliant, sometimes disappointing leadership through the burgeoning Civil Rights era, the economy and most importantly Vietnam. Dallek attempts to show evidence of Kennedy's thinking and concludes that he would not have let this war get out of hand. This is one of the most intruiging arguments of Kennedy's Presidency and Dallek gives thoughtful consideration to this and other issues that Kennedy would have faced in a second term.<br />This is historical biography on a grand scale and Robert Dallek continues with and adds immensely to his his already large reputation with &quot;An Unfinished Life&quot;. The prospective reader should not be disouraged from taking on this massive tome (about 700 pages) as it is incredibly readable and sheds much new information on the JFK Presidency. Above all else, Dallek shows us a new Kennedy...one of self deprication and faults while also intelligent and a legendary leader...this should be the definitive work on JFK's life for many years to come. Highest recommendation.	2004-01-16
US	46220931	R2MTLKZQIIJABI	0809071703	460430619	Murdering McKinley: The Making of Theodore Roosevelt's America	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The birth of the Progressive era...	Do not be too misled by the title of this book...this is really a thesis on the initiation of the Progressive period of our government and not a study dedicated to the assasination of President William McKinley. True, author Eric Rauchway uses McKinley's assasination as the hinge-point for this theory, but this work delves deeply into the idealogical origins of the movement and also, as a secondary objective, attempts to examine the potential insanity of assasin Leon Czolgosz. Once Czolgosz admits to shooting McKinley, Rauchway tries to rationalize Czolgosz's admission under the &quot;anarchy&quot; umbrella and to show this philosophy as a social disorder...a disorder driven by McKinley's percieved obstruction of social change and one which could drive an otherwise normal, hard-working man to commit such a heinous crime. Rauchway consolidates all this into a history summarizing the social outlook that was prevelent at the beginning of the 20th century and offers new scholorship on McKinley, new President Theodore Roosevelt and Czolgosz.<br />Following McKinley's assasination on September 6, 1901, the initial motive of assasin Czolgosz is determined to be his association with and adherence to the dogma of anarchy. Rauchway's view is that with McKinley gone, Progressivism takes off with Roosevelt as it's main proponent. At this point, we get detailed discussions on anarchy and it's leaders along with the idea of Progressivism and the personalities that moved it to the forefront of early 20th century society. Rauchway shows how the McKinley administration's lack of a progressive policy coupled with the onset of a major economic shift to an industrial based society, drives the lower classes (read immigrants) to a view of government that's assumed skewed to the upper classes. When a somewhat intelligent, but misguided immigrant like Czolgosz is introduced to the mantra of anarchy, the idea then of bringing down the leader of this &quot;skewed&quot; government is logical.<br />Czolgosz is then tried for murder, found guilty and, of course, executed...all in amazingly rapid succession. So rapid that the psychological world resents the fact that an insanity plea was not given a thoughtful consideration. Boston psychologist Lloyd Briggs is then chartered with researching Czolgosz's past for possible clues into his mental makeup and to see if anything can be gained from an examination of Czolgosz's psychosis. Briggs interviews many of Czolgosz's family and associates and comes to the conclusion that an obscure form of dementia caused Czolgosz to perform his heinous act. This dementia was driven largely by the government's lack of foresight into the lower class society and Rauchway uses this theory as the basis for this study.<br />This book is not an easy read and one who wishes to learn the idealogical details of this era would do well to read this and would probably enjoy this work. The general reader however learns early on that this is not a study of McKinley's assasination (a natural comparison to the excellent book &quot;Dark Horse&quot; by Kenneth Ackerman is soon abandoned), but conversely, learns much from this discussion and comes to the conclusion that this is a useful history of an otherwise forgotten era of our government.	2003-12-10
US	46220931	R2BI6DM201EW1Y	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	"And as things fell apart, nobody paid much attention"	An interesting paradigm...take the world of privilege and wealth; of Wall Street retinue and upscale Manhattan haberdashery and insert a psychotic serial killer, one who murders and dismembers without feeling and then transitions back to his sartorial splendor of a life like nothing's happened and you get the essence of \\"American Psycho\\", an important and ferocious work bt Brett Ellis.<br />The mantra preached here is that \\"image is everything\\" and that this philosophy masks the true personality of all the characters...Patrick Bateman is 26 years old, works on Wall Street and enjoys the life of a wealthy, urbane iconclast. His story is told with heavy emphasis on the \\"material\\" side of life: \\"He's wearing a linen suit by Canali Milano, a cotton shirt by Ike Behar, a silk tie by Bill Blass and cap-toed leather lace-ups from Brooks Brothers. I'm wearing a four-button double-breasted linen suit by Redaelli, a cotton broadcloth shirt by Ascot Chang, a patterned silk tie by Eugenio Venanzi and loafers by Allen-Edmonds...\\" and establishes this as the ideal of social acceptance. The problem is that all this covers his increasing dimentia and driving urge to torture, kill and mutilate. Ellis presents this dichotomy in a fast paced, sometimes hilarious, sometimes unnecessarily graphic tome that speaks to the diverse elements of psychosis and necessarily shows that this disease can infiltrate all walks of life.<br />The book establishes the characters as faceless noveau-riche (one person is constantly mistaken for another) and we see life directly through the eyes of Bateman, who's slowly sinking into the depths of life as a psychotic murderer. He describes all things in minute detail from his clothes, music, workout routine and equipment and the people he associates with. Conversely, he also describes the brutal rape, torture and murder/dismemberment of his arbitary victims and trys to draw conclusions of what life really means from all this. The reader is purely along justfor the ride here and I for one enjoyed this perspective. Notwithstanding the ending (viewed as a disappointment by most reviewers), I thought that Ellis presented a compelling story and one that needed to be told. Indeed, these personalities are undoubtedly ensconced in our society and continue to wreak havoc daily (read any big city newspaper crime section) and by describing Bateman's life the way he did, Ellis shows that this portion of society continues to exist. I think that this is the underlying message here and to me it becomes clear fairly early in the book.<br />True, the prospective reader of this work should be warned...the violence and sex is very graphic and many of the story's turns are disturbing and upsetting. This is not for every person to read (certainly children and teenagers will not read this for the true message). But if the reader can get past that, one finds that Ellis issues a timely and necessary story about society, one which made a deep impression on me and one that I also found to be a real page-turner. A referendum on modern life, Ellis, I think, should be applauded for his continuing commentary on our social existence and I would have no trouble recommending this book for the mature audience.	2003-12-10
US	46220931	R29FG9R83VNYA0	0807118613	951564020	The Last Citadel: Petersburg, Virginia, June 1864-April 1865	Books	4	8	9	N	N	"If it becomes a siege, it's just a matter of time..."	\\"I have ordered a general assault along the lines\\". With these words, Ulysses Grant initiated the attack that ended the siege at Petersburg in April of 1864 and set in motion the slow retreat of the Confederacy that ultimately ended with their surrender at Appomattox Court House. Noted Civil War historian Noah Trudeau covers this episode of the war comprehensively with \\"The Last Citadel\\". Using many first-person accounts and scholarship long ignored by historians, Trudeau has crafted an intriguing look at this often overlooked portion of the war and presents a nice bridge between the much analyzed battle at Cold Harbor and the equally scrutinized Confederate surrender at Appomattox.<br />Trudeau's strength in this work is his compelling descriptions of the military actions and tactics as the Union forces steal a march on Confederate general R.E. Lee, leaving the front at Cold Harbor and nearly taking Petersburg before Lee can mount a counter-offensive. Only the hesitancy of Union general Baldy Smith (undoubtedly leary from his defeat at Cold Harbor) at exploiting a major opportunity with the Confederate works lightly manned, prevents Petersburg from falling and potentially ending the war many months early. Confederate general P.G.T. Beauregard manages this small force effectively and is able to interdict this minor Union offensive until Lee can get his forces to Petersburg. <br />Probing Union forces then learn that Lee is fronting Petersburg in force and Grant now must decide to attack in full force or settle in for a siege. Trudeau makes an effective argument for Grant's rationale for siege warfare, documenting the many lessons learned from the Federal defeats at Cold Harbor. Once Grant's troops are entrenched, Trudeau covers the many engagements that ensue as Grant encircles the city. Battles south of town along the Weldon Railroad (a major Confederate supply line that Grant is successful at blocking) and the more well-known encounters at the \\"Crater\\" and Fort Stedman are balanced with the many smaller skirmishes north of the city, mainly at Deep Bottom and Bermuda Hundred. Trudeau is effective at showing how this slow strangle-hold of the town ultimately drives the Confederate leadership to abandon both Petersburg and the capital at Richmond, essentially sealing the fate of the rebellion.  <br />Although, as mentioned above, Trudeau uses many diary/journal accounts of this period, he fails in my view to really give the feeling of siege warfare, however. It seems that we go from one battle description to the next, and although he devotes some space to discussing the civilian life and actions in town, this period of the war covered 10 months and I never got the true sense of anxiety and frustration that most assuredly they all felt. Another criticism (a fairly normal one coming from readers of military tactics) is the lack of maps. Trudeau includes a confusing set of maps at the beginning of each chapter and the the reader is expected to refer to these throughout the text. I sometimes had to backtrack 40-50 pages to refer to a map and this not only added undue time, but also detracted from the reading quality as well. Trudeau obviously learned this lesson well as his most recent work (this book was written in 1991) on the battle at Gettysburg was annoted with many timely and useful maps. Finally, the seminal battle at Five Forks is curiously given short shrift here. This Union victory was the key ingredient that Grant needed to complete his encirclement of the city and was a major contributor to the Confederate decision to retreat. Also, the actions of Federal generals Philip Sheridan and Gouvenour Warren at Five Forks had far reaching implications for the rest of the war and should have been included.  These criticisms are fairly minor however and should not make one hesitate to read this book.<br />A fast paced and militarily strong account of this little covered portion of the Civil War, Noah Trudeau adds to his already growing reputation as a leading modern Civil War historian with this work. Civil War buffs wil love it and the general reader will certainly get something from it if they are willing to invest the time. Overall I enjoyed this book and would recommend it highly.	2003-11-28
US	46220931	R2BPRG45ZGGEAI	0451524950	619137395	The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and other stories in The Sketch Book	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	"...bright gems of wisdom and golden veins of language."	Not to be read quickly and to be savored like fine wine, Washington Irving's \\"The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon\\" is a matchless classic in American Literature. Written in 1820 and destined to become a true American literary pantheon (along with his preceeding work \\"Diedrich Knickerboker's History of New York), Irving introduces us to timeless observations and wit that ultimately become enduring discources defining early American Literature.<br />Irving's mantra with this work is a set of observations, indeed \\"sketches\\" of his many travels and musings while roaming through England and his home in upstate New York along the Hudson River. The eternal figures of Rip Van Winkle and Ichabod Crane are evoked in this tome and set a literary standard that others aspire to, but one that Irving effortlessly achieves time and again. Not only does this volume frame these two classics, \\"The Sketch Book\\" also contains other literary giants such as \\"The Angler\\", \\"John Bull\\", \\"Philip of Pokanoket\\", \\"The Specter Bridegroom\\", \\"The Mutability of Literature\\" and \\"The Art of Bookmaking\\" wherein the essence of Irving's literary style is neatly conveyed in the following:<br />\\"Being now in possesion of the secert, I sat down in a corner and watched the process of this book manufactory. I noticed one lean, bilious-looking wight, who sought none but the worst worm-eaten volumes, printed in black letter. He was evidentley constructing some work of profound erudition that would be purchased by every man who wished to be thought learned, placed upon a conspicuous shelf of his library, or laid upon his table, but never read. I observed him, now and then, draw a large fragment of biscuit out of his his pocket and gnaw; whether it was his dinner, or whether he was endeavoring to keep off that exhaustion of the stomach produced by much pondering over dry works, I leave to harder students than myself to determine.\\"<br />With a style that has emitted diverse emotions (Lord Byron \\"unashamedly wept\\" over the melancholy pieces \\"The Broken Heart\\", \\"The Widow and her Son\\" and \\"The Rural Funerals\\") and having enjoyed over a century and a half of eminent popularity, Washington Irving's \\"aim in life is to escape 'from the commonplace realities of the present' and to lose himself 'among the shadowy grandeurs of the past' \\". Readers tuned in to this philosophy continue to enjoy Irving's literary prose (by buying and re-reading his works), and also, by buying and reading, secure his reputation as a master in American Literature. When one has digested \\"The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon\\" and \\"Diedrich Knickerboker's History of New York\\", one has embraced the essential works of Washington Irving and most would then assuredly join me in saying that he rates eminately in American Literary standing.ver the melancholy pieces \\"The Broken Heart\\", \\"The Widow and her Son\\" and \\"The Rural Funerals\\") and having enjoyed over a century and a half of eminent popularity, Washington Irving's \\"aim in life is to escape 'from the commonplace realities of the present' and to lose himself 'among the shadowy grandeurs of the past' \\". Readers tuned in to this philosophy continue to enjoy Irving's literary prose (by buying and re-reading his works), and also, by buying and reading, secure his reputation as a master in American Literature. When one has digested \\"The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon\\" and \\"Diedrich Knickerboker's History of New York\\", one has embraced the essential works of Washington Irving and most would then assuredly join me in saying that he rates eminately in American Literary standing.	2003-11-22
US	46220931	R153RV85DZ7DRF	0786711515	41090816	The Dark Horse: The Surprise Election and Political Murder of President James A. Garfield	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Partisan politics that can lead to political murder...	History has afforded us many instances where the power and conversely the \\"adolescence\\" of political party in-fighting has seemingly affected our abilty to govern ourselves. Never was this theory put to greater practice than in 1880 when Ohio Senator James A. Garfield was surprisingly nominated and then (with help from the New York \\"political machinery\\") elected as the Republican Party candidate for President. Subsequently, and to Garfield's great surprise (and his untimely death), the \\"makers\\" of his election victory, whether real or imagined, expected to be rewarded. The resulting political in-fighting and backstabbing are the basis for this marvelous work by congressional historian Kenneth Ackerman. Wonderfully written and amazingly comprehensive, this account brings back to light the provocative Gilded Age period of our government and shows what \\"power politics\\" can do when adequately (in-adequately?) challenged.<br />The story of James Garfield's short Presidential term and assasination has previously been covered in general terms in many Presidential histories, but nowhere have I read such a focused and sublime account of this man and this period as in this book. Republicans in 1880 were set to re-nominate Ulysses Grant for an unprecedented 3rd term as President. This effort is led by Roscoe Conkling (calling his faction the \\"Stalwarts\\"), an arrogant and flamboyant Senator from New York, then the \\"mecca\\" of politcal machinery and power. His (Conkling's) political enemy James Blaine (leading the \\"Half-Breeds\\") is set to oppose Grant for the nomination and the ensuing gridlock blossomes at the Republican convention in Chicago. To break the roadblock (and it finally took a record 36 ballots), party members initiate votes for Garfield, himself there simply as an Ohio delegate for candidate John Sherman, then Rutherford Hayes's Treasury Secretary. Seeking to offset the \\"machinery\\", one State after another chooses to switch their vote...the result is that Garfield garners enough votes for the nomination. Then for Garfield to consolidate support from both the Stalwarts and Half-Breeds, he does not oppose the nomination (the conventions also chose the Vice Presidential candidate in those days) of Chester Arthur (a key New York Stalwart and Conkling ally) as his Vice-Presidential running mate and also makes tacit promises for patronage for both sides if they would help him get elected.<br />Upon his election, Garfield discovers just how acute the patronage issue is and decides to balance his Cabinet with leaders from both sides...this only serves to antagonize Conkling (Blaine is named Secretary of State, at the time the 2nd most powerful office next to the President) who then resorts to villifying Garfield in the press. Many of the Stalwart supporters rally around Conkling including a fringe supporter named Charles Guiteau, himself pursuing a foreign consul position after minor assistance in the campaign. Ackerman describes all this in clear and concise detail while still maintaining an amazing readability component. He shows how Guiteau's dementia escalates into a controlled fury and how the \\"removal\\" of Garfield would make everything well for the Stalwarts. Indeed, Ackerman's ability to place the reader well inside the minds of these major players leads one to effortlessly see each perspective.<br />Guiteau then of course shoots Garfield (saying \\"I am a Stalwart and Arthur will be president\\") at a train station in Washington and Ackerman discusses Garfield's death and Guiteau's trial and excecution brilliantly. The reader really feels all the emotion and sense of loss as the nation suffers through the 2nd Presidential assasination in history and the rage at Guiteau for his senseless act. Ackerman then exonerates Arthur and shows him to be an honest (although clearly not Executive Office material) and hard-working President. The underlying thread throughout this work, however, is the clear and present danger that petty partisanpolitics plays in making or breaking any candidate or office holder. Garfield, an otherwise decent and honest man, becomes entwined in the web of political patronage and seemingly loses perspective for the presidency and not until he takes a stand against the \\"machine\\" (read Conkling) does he become effective as a leader. Unfortunately for America, he does not get the chance to build on this moral stance and the country loses someone who may have been an exemplary president.<br />It really is a cliche to say that any historical work reads like a novel but it is really true with Ackerman's book. He has crafted an amazingly readable historical piece and deserves mention amoung the many gifted political history writers today. This tome should appeal to the historian and the general reader interested in politics and I recommend it highly.	2003-11-14
US	46220931	R328PLV2GPJ27N	0060915358	112369648	Delivered from Evil: The Saga of World War II: The First Complete One-Volume History	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Monumental task eloquently done...	An extremely courageous undertaking...many detailed volumes have previously been written on World War II at the specific battle level that to imagine a one-volume account of the whole war which is not only useful but also readable seems initially to be a ridiculous proposition. Robert Leckie, however, pulls it off marvelously and earns his reputation as a \\"masterful historian\\" with this epic work.<br />Starting at Versaille following the dreadful end of World War I and ending on the deck of the Missouri battleship for the formal Japanese surrender, this account (in over 900 pages of extremely small type) covers all the major details with surprising comprehensiveness while at the same time not sacrificing that important readability component. If one were to combine this book with the DVD issue of the classic WWII saga \\"The World at War\\", you'd get a beguiling experience of the events that continue to shape our world today.<br />Leckie's experience at extolling just the right amount of battle detail while balancing the \\"human\\" side of the struggle is really masterful...each period of the War is told in easily read chapters and paragraphs and although at times episodic, makes this work one that can easily be started and stopped at short intervals.<br />The post WWI German and Italian economies are the main impetus for the development of Fascism and Leckie develops this plot with wonderful biographies of Mussolini and Hitler...the rise of the Third Reich follows and Leckie explains this with deft political discussion as well as with many first-hand accounts from Generals down to the every-day Berliner. The English and French make little attempt at interdiction and Hitler is off on his dillusional nationalism...the invasion of Poland is just the start of the \\"empire building\\" that lasts for almost six more years.<br />The Japanese rise and ultimate invasion of Pearl Harbor are integrated as well and the reader really gets a true feeling of the coming of war. Leckie's previously published works on the Southwest Pacific theatre are obviously used here and thus makes for enticing reading at the battles for Guadalcanal and the Phillipines...also, his depiction of MacArthur goes against the \\"standard\\" history and is a refreshing point in this story.<br />The Allied invasion of Europe and the \\"island hopping\\" in the Pacific are discussed in full military detail (again, just the right amount) as are the many first hand soldier accounts of those battles that add depth and immediacy. The highlights of this work (in my opinion) are the fall of the Third Reich and the subsequent Hitler suicide; the American homefront and what it meant to a struggling American economy; the Normandy invasions and subsequent breakout and, finally, a completely comprehensive and disturbing summary of the Holocaust. Leckie adroitly mixes details with his amazing story-telling ability that leaves the reader with a pleasingly full knowledgable experience. This truly is THE text to start any study of WWII. The only criticism I'd add is the lack of maps...the afore mentioned Pacific theatre discussion would have been exceedingly better had Leckie included maps...<br />For an initial undertaking of serious study of this conflict, I'd challenge anyone to find a better starting point than \\"Deliverd from Evil\\"...I give this a very high recommendation.	2003-09-22
US	46220931	R2FL4K3YA9QHIR	1592240003	840208474	Doctor Syn: A Smuggler Tale of the Romney Marsh	Books	2	39	49	N	Y	Underwhelming start of a legendary story...	For many childern of the 60's (myself included), the Sunday evening TV episodes of &quot;The World of Disney&quot; exposed adolescents (as well as many &quot;adult adolescents&quot;) to a diverse catalouge of entertaining adventure tales. In 1965, a three-part episode entitled &quot;Dr. Syn, the Scarecrow of Romney Marsh&quot; first aired and enthralled all who watched it. The &quot;robin hood&quot; atmosphere that this work evoked drove many to want more of the &quot;Scarecrow&quot; to the extent that some of these &quot;children&quot; never got over that desire (me included again, of course). This interest was again recently peaked for me when I watched it on VHS with my own children and subsequently was driven to (happily) discover that the &quot;Dr. Syn&quot; story indeed had a long history.<br />Russell Thorndyke (an English actor/playwrite of the early 20th century) was the impetus for the story, I discovered, and wrote a number of short novels that ultimately spawned the Disney film. While researching these works, I discovered this fairly new release and decided to indulge. When I received it, I found that this particular volume &quot;Dr Syn, a Smuggler Tale of Romney Marsh&quot; is a re-release of the original 1915 story that started the legend, so, with memories of the film in mind, I dove into reading it. Sadly, this initial telling of the story doesn't nearly match the film or the legend that we're all familiar with and is thus a disappoinment.<br />The storyline, of course, is of Dr. Syn, the mild-mannered vicar of Dymchurch who's alter-ego is the Scarecrow...that mysterious, masked night-rider who heads a band of smugglers intent on making life in Romney Marsh palatable for the townsfolk during the late 1700's. Their swashbuckling adventures keep the village economically above water while at the same time tweeking the rouge English government of King George. Outlaws as they are, the characters are heroic (as all &quot;rob from the rich and give to the poor&quot; types are) and amazingly clever as attempt after attempt to capture them further embellishes their reputation.<br />This book by Thorndyke establishes the characters and setting, while filling in some blanks. We are told that Syn is in fact a Captain Clegg, the notorious pirate who was thought hanged years ago, but is now the kindly vicar. He now resides in Dymchuch and soon becomes stagnated by country life and disillusioned by the repeated efforts of the English government to stay economically viable (read, taxing them to death). Syn becomes the Scarecrow and recruits a gang of smugglers who work with other European countries to obtain illegal booty which ultimately keeps the Dymchurch province afloat. The problem with this book, however, is that very little is discussed about these &quot;high adventure&quot; activities and too many nonsensical storylines are established that detract from the essence of the main theme. One is left to assume a lot here and, I suspect, many will lose patience (admittedly, I did). This book isn't great writing nor great literature, so the draw of this work should have been the character of the Scarecrow. Unfortunately (and I assume that Thorndyke enhances the story in subsequent novels) we see very little of the Scarecrow and still less of the &quot;midnight rides&quot;. I suppose that the main problem here is the fact that we've now seen the movie and are all too familiar with the characters. Therefore we've missed the buildup of the story from 1915 to now and our expectations get soundly thrashed when reading this work.<br />I do plan however to read at least some of the follow-up novels (Thorndyke kills Syn in this volume, so his subsequent works follow Syn as he lives preceding this story) and truly hope that the story's improve. With respect to this work, however, I'd only recommend it for the truly die-hearted.	2003-08-21
US	46220931	R3T65F0E2JGUHT	0679781390	344485885	Not War But Murder: Cold Harbor 1864	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Cold Harbor as general history...	The 1864 battle at Cold Harbor has enjoyed somewhat of a rejuvination lately with a recent work from Gordon Rhea as well as this fine volume from noted Civil War historian Ernest Furgurson. Naturally, a comparison is warranted (whether fairly or unfairly) so I'll indulge myself.<br />Rhea's coverage of the battle is framed in a military/campaign format with specific movements and tactics spelled out in sometimes extreme detail...a great many readers, I'll wager will not be able to \\"see the forest for the trees\\". For Civil War buffs however, this work is paradise.<br />By comparison, Furgurson's account takes a more general approach to the struggle with emphasis on the everyday soldier and military life. The result is a sparkling and refreshing view of this awful battle with an added bonus of a brilliant description of the subsequent extrication of U.S. Grant's Army of the Potomac from Cold Harbor and the beginning of the siege of Petersburg.<br />Furgurson tells just enough of the details of both armies movements from the end of the battle at the North Anna river up to and including the climactic struggles on June 1st and 3rd to keep the military historians engaged, but also in a way that drags the general reader in and holds him. As in his previous work covering the 1863 battle of Chancellorsville, Furgurson keeps a remarkable balance between the detailed battle tactics and social issues of the day, all the while allowing the story to flow at a pleasurable pace...without sacrificing any details.<br />Furgurson goes on to discuss the mood of both armies as they settle in for the Petersburg siege...the almost criminal loss of opportunity of the Union forces to destroy the Confederates as Grant steals a march on R.E. Lee. Grant's deteriorating relationship with Gordon Meade is a principal factor at this point in the war for the Union's poor coordination and Furgurson does not hesitate to criticize both. Finally, a brilliant Epilouge that discusses the battlefield post Cold Harbor and the Cold Harbor cemetery eloquently close out the book.<br />As in any battle history, the mark of a standout story is the author's ability to depict the battle and all the details while not suffering \\"atmosphere\\" and Ernest Furgurson succeeds magnificently with \\"Not War But Murder\\". I recommend this book highly.Cold Harbor and the Cold Harbor cemetery eloquently close out the book.<br />As in any battle history, the mark of a standout story is the author's ability to depict the battle and all the details while not suffering \\"atmosphere\\" and Ernest Furgurson succeeds magnificently with \\"Not War But Murder\\". I recommend this book highly.	2003-07-11
US	46220931	RJLOTQJXUZEY6	0807128031	765433948	Cold Harbor: Grant and Lee, May 26June 3, 1864	Books	4	29	30	N	Y	Cold Harbor as campaign  history...	Most contemporary histories of the Civil War cover the 1864 Overland Campaign as a series of maneuvers from the Rapidan river ultimately to Appomattox with emphasis on the major battles fought at the Wilderness, Spotsylvania, North Anna River, Cold Harbor and the siege at Petersburg. Little is publicized concerning the planning and marches to and from these prestigous battlefields, until Gordon Rhea's study of this series of battles. In Cold Harbor, Rhea's latest in this series, he comes clean with the details of the maneuvers from the North Anna river to Cold Harbor and the ensuing battles on June 1st and 3rd, 1864. By providing such a complete and comprehensive campaign history, Rhea sacrifices (in my opinion) some of his previous improvements in &quot;readability&quot; and essentially redefines what a &quot;campaign history&quot; reads like.<br />Even though this period does encompass a significant amount of maneuvering, cavalry battles, small infantry engagements and entrenchments, Rhea, as in his previous works, feels obligated to discuss all of it in detail. While he does accomplish an amazingingly organized study of this amazingly complex series of movements, he loses many a reader to these details and ultimately the whole book suffers somewhat in terms of quality.<br />This isn't to say that this is a bad book...on the contrary, as I've previously stated, Rhea presents an impressive study, taking no liberties in his research to uncover what really happened and when. We start out with the armies facing each other at the North Anna river. U.S. Grant, having realized that R.E. Lee's inverted &quot;V&quot; entrenchment south of the river is indeed a trap, decides to again move &quot;by the left flank&quot; and steals a march on Lee by crossing the Pamunkey river with his sights set on Richmond. Lee finally discovers this and sets up strong defenses along Totopotomoy creek between Grant and Richmond. Cavalry battles at Haw's Shop/Enon Church, Bethesda Church andMatadequin Creek presage the infantry &quot;skirmishes&quot; along Shady Grove Road and Old Church Road.<br />Then &quot;a fateful cascade of events had brought Cold Harbor to the forefront Grant's and Lee's attention. Federal commanders initially had no intention of using the place in their offensive operations. They considered the road junction significant only because Confederates might exploit it as a staging area to harass Union supply lines and thwart (Union General Baldy) Smith's arrival.&quot; Lee, sensing Grant's intention to capture the crossrads and use it as a launching pad for an invasion of Richmond, sends Cavalry to Cold Harbor to prevent them from taking it. Union Cavalry under Phil Sheridan fears that the Confederates plan to attack him there and goes on the offensive. Lee conversely thinks that the Cavalry attack is the vanguard for a major Union attack and shifts an entire infantry corps there. Grant sees this and starts his infantry there and the engagement is on.<br />The famous confrontations on June 1st and 3rd mark the true battles at Cold Harbor and Rhea hits his stride in discussing them: &quot;Writers later alluded to a 'Cold Harbor' syndrome, claiming that the carnage Union soldiers witnessed in the fighting there persuaded them to shy away from assaulting entrenched positions. In fact, by the time the Army of the Potomac reached Cold Harbor, veterans had already learned that valuable lesson. Cold Harbor is where newcomers discovered what old timers already knew.&quot; Famous engagements involving the 2nd Connecticut Heavy Artillery and the 8th New York Heavy Artillery are detailed here making these stories a remarkable companion for the History Channel's &quot;Civil War Combat&quot; episode on Cold Harbor. These army-wide assaults against the entrenched Confederate positions have driven many historians to indict Grant for mis-management of this battle and garnering him the reputation of a &quot;butcher&quot;. Rhea dispels these myths: &quot;When viewed in the war's larger context, the June 3 attack falls short of it's popular reputation for slaughter. Grant lost more men each day in the Wilderness and on two different days at Spotsylvania Court House than he did on Jume 3, making his main effort at Cold Harbor only the fifth bloodiest day for the Federals since crossing the Rapidan.&quot; What Grant and the Union army is guilty of is army-wide coordination. Time and again, they have an advantage taken away when coordinated movements go awry and the Confederates are able to capitalize...Rhea documents these in his closing chapter and discusses Grant's feeling that this was not a major defeat, but just another obstacle in his road to defeating Lee's army.<br />A study not for the general reader, but an essential component for historians and of Civil War history, Gordon Rhea's latest book continues his impressive documantation of the close of the war in Virginia and I would encourage all Civil War buffs to read these books.	2003-06-26
US	46220931	R1LFKZL7IPM8T8	0807125350	742161616	To the North Anna River: Grant and Lee, May 13--25, 1864	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Overland Campaign "calm before the storm"...	An intriguing interlude in the Overland Campaign of 1864 between the battles of Spotsylvania Courthouse and Cold Harbor, Gordon Rhea continues his impressive study of this period with \\"To the North Anna River\\". Manuever, as opposed to carnage, dominate this work and shows Rhea's continued evolvement as a writer as well as an historian.<br />We start where \\"The Battles for Spotsylvania Courthouse\\" left off with both armies entrenched before the Mule Shoe at Spotsylvania. Rhea discusses the thinking of both Generals Lee and Grant as each labors to decide what to do next. Another unsuccessful attack at the salient is orchestrated by Grant before he makes the first move by deciding to disengage and manuever Lee out of his trenches. He advances Winfield Hancock to the southeast with the idea of using him as bait to get Lee to follow. This strategy works as Lee starts his army southward toward the North Anna river. Troop movements and lost opportunities dominate this portion of the book as Grant and Lee engage on the next portion of the campaign. Cavalry battles also are covered at this point as Union General Philip Sheridan drives the Federal cavalry on a threatening movement towards the Confederate capital at Richmond. Rhea then discusses how this movement, although somewhat successful, ultimately hurt the Union cause.<br />Lee then wins the race to the North Anna by taking advantage of Grant's lack of intelligence that Sheridan's cavalry would have provided. He (Lee) then entrenches south of the river as he waits to see what Grant will do. The battles at Henagan's Redoubt and Jericho Mills (both Union victories in the maneuver to the North Anna) set the stage for the highlight of the book which is the defensive posture that Lee now incorporates. Rhea shows how Confederate chief field engineer Martin Smith \\"proposes an ingenious solution\\" that results in the famous inverted \\"V\\" entrenchment below the river. This fortification has the added advantage of splitting Grant'sarmy below the river and (if Grant attacks) would give Lee a stunning victory. Grant initiates offensive probes and becomes increasingly concerned that his troops are trapped. The little known battle at Ox Ford on the North Anna is the final proof that he needs. Lee meanwhile becomes ill and fails to delegate  to his subordinates his instinctive thought to attack and the opportunity is lost. Rhea ties all this together with some of his best writing to date: \\"Lee had slept little in the twenty harrowing days since Grant had crossed the Rapidan. He often worked after midnight and was generally awake by 3:00 A.M. Dysentery was endemic in the Army of Norhtern Virginia, and Lee had contracted the illness by the time he had reached the North Anna. Normally even-tempered and robust, he was now irritable and rode in a carriage. On the afternoon of May 24 Lee was seized with violent intestinal distress and his aide pronounced him 'quite unwell'. The Confederate commander lay confined to his tent, 'prostrated by his sickness' with a single thought dominating his mind 'We must strike a blow'. But the Army of Northern Virginia could not strike a blow. It required a firm hand to coordinate so complex an undertaking. In better times, when Jackson and Longstreet commanded the wings of the Confederate army, Lee had liberally delegated responsibility. But Jackson was dead and Longstreet disabled and Lee lacked confidence in their successors.\\" Grant then realizes the danger of his position and extricates his forces to the Northern side of the river. His decision to maneuver again \\"by the left flank\\" to the southeast closes out the text portion of the book.<br />Rhea then ends the book with an excellent Epilogue section in which he discusses the heretofore unknown battle at Wilson's Wharf on the James River showing for the first time the fighting tenacity of the Federal's black troops and also whereby he draws conclusions that differ somewhat with the contemporary standard: \\"Historians have considered Lee's inability to attack on the afternoon of May 24 a lost opportunity of major proportions. In retrospect, it is doubtful that even a healthy Lee could have dealt a decisive blow. He would most certainly have wrecked much of Hancock's corps, but he would have lacked the strength and time to exploit the localized victory. Nightfall would likely have prevented him from crossing the North Anna. Grant could take severe casualties in stride. Terrible subtractions in the Wilderness and at Spotsylvania Court House did not deter him, nor did severe losses at Cold Harbor in the coming weeks. It is difficult to imagine Hancock's defeat inducing him to abandon his campaign. Sickness doubtless cost Lee a superb opportunity to damage an isolated portion of Grant's army at the North Anna River, but the lost opportunity should not be exaggerated. Judging from Grant's reaction to earlier and later setbacks, he likely would have treated defeat at the North Anna as a tactical reverse and gone on with his campaign.\\"<br />Judiciously written and masterfully researched (Rhea discloses in the Introduction that little of any substance has been written on this period due to the confusing state of exisiting material), Gordon Rhea has created (in my opinion) another masterpiece, further fortifying his standing as one of the outstanding contemporary Civil War historians. I give this book a very high recommendation.	2003-05-31
US	46220931	RPIQMTGS8H4FP	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	4	11	19	N	Y	A "Tabloid Presidency" uncovered...	The first in what I'm sure will become numerous accounts of the final days of the Bill Clinton administration, Barbara Olson presents a scathing and eye-opening narrative of the disturbing and at the same time fascinating closing of Clinton's 8 years in office. Notwithstanding Olson's untimely death aboard the plane that struck the Pentagon on 9/11 and the fervent rush to immortalize her, this book should still be popular years later for all who are curious about these final, confusing days. Written in \\"news-reporter\\" style, this story is based on solid reporting and research and stands as the definitive account of Clinton's actions as he vacated the Presidency.<br />This book covers approximately the last quarter of Clinton's term and documents one un-believeable story after another as Clinton embarks on a \\"pardon frenzy\\" while he and Hillary \\"loot\\" the White House of it's furniture, china...etc. Famous and not-so-famous recieve pardons as Clinton administers 140 Presidential pardons and 36 commutations in record time closing out his administration. Olson's enmity towards the First Couple is at times almost overbearing as she catalouges each Clinton action and the reasons why each was so repulsive. Hillary also recieves her share of the blame as Olson continues her vehement dislike of the First Lady (started in Olson's previous book \\"Hell To Pay\\") while documenting the absurd political maneuvering the Clintons performed while trying to get Hillary elected to the Senate.<br />Nmerous contemporary interviews are included that add depth to these charges, while also making for fascinating reading. For example, former Jimmy Carter Chief-of-Staff Hamilton Jordan states the following: \\" 'It is incredible that the ethical atmosphere of the Clinton White House had sunk to a level whereby the constitutional power of a president to issue a pardon was discussed among Mr. Clinton and his White House staff as just one more perk of office.' Clinton, he said, had disgraced and demeaned his office by treating the pardon power in the same manner as giving campaign contributors overnight stays in the Lincoln bedroom or flights aboard Air Force One. The Clinton's, he went on, 'are not a couple but a business partnership, not based on love or even greed but on shared ambitions...The Clinton's only loyalty is to their own ambitions.' \\" <br />A fairly fast read (I read this in a 4 day weekend while on vacation) and written in that news reporter \\"to-the-point\\" style, this account should be read by all who are even mildly interested in politics as it shows how the abuses of power have virtually destroyed Bill Clinton's legacy and continue to make Hillary Clinton's Senate term suspect.	2003-05-27
US	46220931	R19VC25LZKBU4M	0807121363	773031948	The Battles for Spotsylvania Court House and the Road to Yellow Tavern, May 7--12, 1864	Books	5	7	7	N	N	"A dramatic punctuation mark closing this phase..."	Gordon Rhea makes an important leap forwards in \\"grand scale\\" Civil War writing with his work on \\"The Battles for Spotsylvania Courthouse May 7-12,1864\\". Unlike his previous release covering the Battle for the Wilderness, Rhea has obviously incorporated all critiques and takes a bold step forward with this masterpiece of Civil War writing. The battle descriptions, everyday soldier stories and maneuver/tactic summaries along with the extensive array of maps (all in the correct context!) converge with this amazingly described battle story. <br />Rhea begins this book with the disengagement of the Federal forces following the tactical draw at the Wilderness. Detailed troop movements on both sides of the lines encompass most of the first quarter of the book and Rhea does an excellent job at describing who went where and explaining why it is important to understand that the movements of Confederate Richard Anderson towards Spotsylvania Courthouse (a small crossroads hamlet southwest of Chancellorsville) in a timely manner (his march from the Wilderness to Spotsylvania occurs hours ahead of schedule and barely beats the Federals to this important strategic holdpoint) made the difference in the ensuing battles.<br />The initial engagements at Laurel Hill/Spindle's Farm on May 8th set the stage for the Siege/trench warfare that follows and Rhea adroitly explains troop layouts and maneuvers in this important prelude to the subsequent major battles. As in the Wilderness struggle, this battle period also covers two main areas...the infantry confrontations at Spotsylvania and the cavalry maneuvers/battles between Phil Sheridan's complete corps of Union cavalry and Jeb Stuart's partial Confederate corps as they head to a climactic engagement at Yellow Tavern north of Richmond (culminating in the un-timely death of Stuart...a major blow to the Southern cause).<br />Rhea goes on to point out how vulnerable the Confederate \\"Muleshoe\\" entrenchments at Spotsylvania are and how UnionColonel Emory Upton is partially successful with his May 10th charge at the west side of the salient. U.S. Grant sees this and uses this same tactic to attack the northwest \\"angle\\" on May 12th. The resulting \\"Bloody Angle\\" encounter is the highlight of the book. Charge after senseless charge is depicted along with chilling descriptions of the resulting carnage...this clearly was the Civil War at it's most gruesome (apologies to those who say that Antietam, Fredericksburg or Chickamauga were the bloodiest). Rhea descibes...\\"In places, the combatants pressed so close that their flagstaffs crossed. 'The fighting was horrible,' a Mississippian recalled. 'The breastworks were slippery with blood and rain, dead bodies lying underneath half trampled out of sight.' The 16th Mississippi's flag stood at the salient's apex, like a challenge to the Federals. Wave after wave of Union assaults battered the point. Between charges, the Confederates cleared corpses from the trenches and loaded and stacked their rifles in preparation for the next onslaught. 'The powder smoke settled on us while the rain trickled down our faces from the rims of our caps like buttermilk on the inside of a tumbler,' penned a Mississippian who had stood not ten feet from the flagstaff. 'We could hardly tell one another apart. No Mardi Gras Carnival ever devised such a diabolical looking set of devils as we were. It was no imitation affair of red paint and burnt cork, but genuine human gore and gun powder smoke that came from guns belching death at close range' \\".<br />Rhea then closes the book with an excellent Epilogue...expert analysis of both side's tactics and rationale are given and he absoluetly does not hesitate to indict both Leaders (Grant far more than Lee this time) for failures in thinking and command. In the final analysis, this is a watershed in Civil War battle history. Rhea now shows that he deserves mention with the best Civil War historians of the day (notwithstanding my critique of hisfirst work) and I eagerly look forward to reading the rest of his Overland Campign histories. I highly recommend this book!	2003-04-21
US	46220931	R1WYLR44V58O2B	0807118737	796615899	The Battle of the Wilderness, May 5--6, 1864	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Definitive account of the start of the Overland Campaign...	4 1/2 stars...this misses my 5 star category for the very reasons that some others give it 5 stars. First, this is a very detailed (sometimes maddingly so) account and the maps, although very well done, are not plentiful enough to accurately follow along. I'd compare this to Noah Trudeau's &quot;Gettysburg&quot; where a detailed military history is presented and the maps in that classic account are plentiful AND placed in the correct context in the book...this detail (to me) is one of the big and important differences between these two books. Secondly, although Rhea gives many &quot;first-person&quot; accounts from diary and journal entries, he fails (in my opinion) to give the &quot;everyday soldier&quot; feel thats so prevelant in recent works by Trudeau, Stephen Sears and Ernust Furgurson. These authors write Civil War history on a grand scale and seem to instinctively know when enough battle tactic detail is enough.<br />Now, having said all that, this is still an excellent book...one that's well worth reading for it captures the little discussed battle for the Wilderness (May, 1864) in complete and comprehensive detail. U.S. Grant's assumption of command and his initial tentative dealings with former commander George Meade are the framework that starts this book and Rhea shows how that fragmented structure was partly responsible for the Union Armies' disappointing showing in this battle. This unwieldy command structure is at first evident when Grant's plan to get R.E. Lee out in the open is thwarted by the many problems with the Widerness area itself and the lethargy of his many division commanders...they just couldn't get momentum enough to get this Army across the Rapidan River and through the Wilderness to meet Lee on the field of their choice. What resulted was that the Confederate Army was able to attack and hold at bay (indeed, almost defeat) the Federals while being greatly outnumbered.<br />Rhea then breaks this battle discussion down into two main parts: the &quot;Northern&quot; battle along the Orange Turnpike and the &quot;Southern&quot; battle on and around the Orange Plank Road. Division, Brigade and Company movements are analyzed in excruciating detail and it takes a lot of concentration to follow along here. Rhea does, however, summarize at the end of each chapter fairly well, so understanding the &quot;big picture&quot; is ultimately accomplished.<br />The second day's battle plan and execution follows this detailed description style, and Rhea deftly describes the apex of the battle when Longstreet's troops make their appearance (later then planned, having marched many miles from the Southwest). The hugely successful flanking attack around the Union's left flank through an unfinished railroad cut and subsequent rollback of the Federals to the Brock Road, along with John B. Gordon's flank attack along the Federal right flank at Saunders Field are the highlights of the battle and the book. The unremitting carnage is ever present throughout and Rhea does a great job in making the point that this was a major Civil War battle with major casualties. Rhea then closes out the book with brilliant conclusions and summaries (i.e. everybody gets some blame and some kudos). <br />This work is a very schlolarly and detailed military study and justly stands as the definitve account of the Wilderness Battle...this should be read by all Civil War historians, but may be a little much for the general reader. However, I do look forward to reading the rest of the books in this series and I would recommend this to any history buff.	2003-03-26
US	46220931	R12D2ZRF8FI25K	0060195339	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fantastic &quot;sociological&quot; biography...	Jane Leavy has really transcended sports biography with this outstanding account of baseball great Sandy Koufax. Framed in a &quot;between innings&quot; format, the reader gets Koufax's career discussed in parallel with his monumental September, 1965 perfect game against the Chicago Cubs. At the same time, we get a sort of &quot;social&quot; history of the times (mid 1960's) that adds depth and immediacy to this story thats lacking in other more celebrated biographies. <br />From early childhood to his still current adulation, Leavy attempts to myth-alize and at the same time de-myth the Koufax icon...all the time with minimal cooperation from the subject. And even with this roadblock, she has achieved a major success!  With the advantage of hundreds of interviews of Koufax intimates, she has managed to succeed in portraying the &quot;real&quot; Koufax where many before her have failed. His legendary career is celebrated at the same time his legendary &quot;aloofness&quot; is picked apart, showing that Koufax ultimately achieves what he always wanted to be be: a regular guy.<br />There is no shortage of baseball talk here though...we hear Koufax explaining the mechanics of pitching in almost doctoral detail; why these mechanics ruined his pitching elbow and ultimately led to his early retirement. We get numerous funny and informative anecdotes from the afore-mentioned interviews, as well as some darned good game coverage...Leavy obviously was (is) an excellent sports writer and her passion for the game and the subject are obvious. <br />The undeniable thread throughout this work, however, is the decency and &quot;down to Earth&quot; manner in which Koufax carried himself throughout his career. Whether it was his practice of hanging out with his &quot;lesser&quot; teammates (as opposed to Don Drysdale, who comes across as sort of &quot;star-seeking&quot;) or refusing to pitch on the opening game of the 1965 World Series (which occured on Yom Kippur), Koufax's humility and class are ever-present in the narrative and gives the reader that fleeting &quot;personal&quot; side that has been missing from many other descriptions of Koufax's career. The social climate of the mid-to-late 1960's is interspersed with the games and gives a perspective and context that's not normally found in most sports biographies...it's this feature of the book and Koufax's personal makeup that make this book so appealing.<br />Whether looking for a sports biography or a discussion of how sports fit into the late 60's culture, &quot;Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy&quot; is an excellent source. Extremely readable and highly entertaining, this book should be considered a watershed in these subjects as well as a definitive account of Sandy Koufax's career and I recommend it very highly.	2003-03-23
US	46220931	RQB7UXEUI4AUU	0743203291	742968691	Robert Kennedy: His Life	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	A masterpiece of American biography...	Evan Thomas has set an exceptionally high standard for political as well as historical biography with this masterful account of the life of a brilliant and tortured leader. Highly readable and meticulously researched with the added advantage of having unlimited exclusive access to Kennedy's private papers, this narrative brings to life a complex and dynamically forceful man.<br />From RFK's early days to his untimely death while reaching for the Presidency, Thomas gives us an unvarnished but at the same time a sympathetic look at the \\"ruthless\\" Kennedy. We see RFK molding his skills as the tireless/relentless campaign manager for his brother as JFK ran for Congress in '46 and the Senate in '52. His driven pursuit of Hoffa as a part of the Senate Rackets Committee brings RFK into the national spotlight and sets the stage for the monolithic JFK Presidential campaign and administration.<br />Awarded the Attorney Generalship for his work during the campaign, Bobby offsets the nepotism charges by becoming the most trusted advisor to his brother during one of history's most sublime and at the same time most dangerous Presidential terms. Thomas deftly covers the inside machinations of such historical events as the Bay of Pigs, the multiple assasination plots against Castro and the subsequent Missile Crisis. RFK's role is at once expertly and judiciously displayed as the manipulative bully who runs interference while JFK remains above the fray. Conversely, when challenged, he shows that he can become thoughtful and brilliant on the world stage as evidenced by his performance during the Missile Crisis.<br />Of lesser known historical events such as the burgeoning civil rights acts of the early 60's, the fight against the \\"mob\\" and organized crime and the constant and frustrating battles with J. Edgar Hoover, Thomas reveals RFK in the same light...the same intensity, the same propensity for error (notable in the tapping of Martin Luther King's phone)and the same caring leadership with his characteristically kindred feelings for the \\"underdog\\".<br />Following JFK's assasination, we see RFK's mythological transformation from follower to leader...Thomas covers his Senate election following that crippling \\"depression\\" period and shows how he slowly established his own policies and agenda. All this leads to the almost Shakespearian tragedy of the '68 campaign for the Presidency and a brilliant ending to the book where Thomas philosophizes on what a prospective RFK Presidential administration might have been: \\"He probably would have been devious in some ways, and it is not impossible to imagine him abusing the power of his office. But he would have surely tried to tackle the problems of poverty and discrimination, and he would have tried to end the killing in Vietnam long before President Nixon did.\\"<br />A sweeping narrative of a fascinating man and a shrewd examination of his character, this work by Evan Thomas is both comprehensive and an entertaining read and should stand the test of time and be considered the best RFK biography of the many that are currently published. This is an essential read for any political or historical buff and I recommend it highly.	2003-02-22
US	46220931	R1L0CDI68JBYX6	0345427564	22929845	The Glorious Cause: A Novel of the American Revolution	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Epic sequal to &quot;Rise to Rebellion&quot;...	Jeff Shaara has really come into his own with this impressive follow-up to &quot;Rise to Rebellion&quot;. Powerful in it's character depiction while maintaining an amazing historical accuracy, Shaara sheds new light on many &quot;entrenched&quot; myths of the Revolution and comes away with what I feel is a masterpiece. <br />We follow Washington, Cornwallis, Nathaniel Greene and Franklin from the invasion of Brookyln Heights through Yorktown with a first-person perspective that adds depth and immediacy not seen in other accounts of the Revolution. Battle tactics and surprisingly plentiful maps further reinforce Shaara's story and ultimately gives a vivid and heroic picture to our &quot;founding fathers&quot;.<br />Shaara comes across as a damn fine storyteller and his descriptions of the Battle of New York, Trenton, Brandywine, Valley Forge and Monmouth using this first-person perspective gives a masterful picture of these battles and lets the reader see what it may have been like to be on these distinguished battlfields. The Southern theatre (the real turning point of the War) gets detailed treatment as well with the accounts of Cowpens, Guilford Courthouse and of course Yorktown.<br />But the overwhelming thread throughout this entire work are the character developments and the human drama that these conveyed. We see Howe as an early version of the Civil War's George McClellan, Clinton as the arrogant successor, Tarelton as the &quot;butcher&quot; and Cornwallis as possibly the most capable of all the British Senior commanders. On the American side, Greene is plausibly portrayed as Washington's &quot;right-hand-man&quot;, Laffayette as the young phenom, Charles Lee and Horatio Gates as the conniving and undermining subordinates, Arnold as the persecuted traitor and, finally, Washington as the true leader and savior of the revolutionary cause. His thoughts, feelings and frustrations (fictional though they are) from Harlem Heights to Yorktown come alive and Shaara is to be applauded for bringing these out in a realistic and entertaining manner. Minor character development (Von Stueben, Rochambeau, Daniel Morgan and Knox) abounds and adds needed depth to the narrative while also giving accurate historical perspective.<br />From the initial chapter where the young colonial fisherman is stabbed as a suspected spy to the emotional departure of Washington at Fraunces Tavern in New York, Sharra brings to light all the drama of the Revolution while maintaining the history in an epic account thats sure to classified as essential Revolutionary War reading. Very highly recommended.	2003-01-28
US	46220931	R2QKWGB51U7FU2	0060193638	220335700	Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Brilliant narrative of the 3 days at Gettysburg...	Gettysburg: A Testing of Courage is a \\"tour de force\\" of Civil War history...at once powerful in it's narrative comprehensiveness while maintaining an incredibly sublime human tone that should make this the apex of Noah Trudeau's Civil War accounts. Compulsively readable and extensively researched, Trudeau has conveyed an incredibly complex battle into a magnificent one-volume account that could eclipse most of the almost overwhelming inventory of contemporary Gettysburg histories. <br />This book begins with the disarrayed Union forces under \\"Fighting\\" Joe Hooker again encamped north of Fredericksburg following their critical loss at Chancellorsville. Conversely, Lee's Confederate forces are primed to invade the North again (fully recovering from the incredible standoff at Antietam) and Trudeau offers an extremely plausible explanation of Lee's rationale for the invasion and his almost desperate requests for additional troops (incredibly denied by Jefferson Davis as too costly to Richmond's defense). The bumbling Federal efforts at interpretation of Lee's movements ultimately leads to Hooker's dismissal as commander and implants George Meade (notwithstanding his reluctance to do so) as Lincoln's latest in the ever-growing list of Union commanding generals.<br />The Confederate invasion is allowed to proceed into Pennsylvania (almost to Harrisburg) before an amazing confluence of circumstances leads both armies to the small hamlet of Gettysburg. Trudeau describes the first day's battle correctly as a partial cavalry and partial infantry engagement, dispelling the age-old myth that Buford's Union cavalry alone interdicted the larger Confederate force. In fact, the strength of this penetrating narrative (in my opinion) is Trudeau's ability to use contemporary research to dispel many of the afore-mentioned Gettysburg myths (the Joshua Chamberlain \\"closing gate\\" maneuver at Little Round Top, Lee's reaction to J.E.B. Stuart as he complete's his \\"flanking\\" ride around theUnion forces, Pickett's 3rd day charge...etc) and telling the un-embellished story.<br />The 2nd day's carnage is ever present as Trudeau eloquently describes it from both the soldier's viewpoint as well as the local civilian's. As Lee attacks the Union left-flank, the well known battles on the Round Tops, the Wheatfield, the Peach Orchard and Devil's Den are covered in comprehensive while at the same time amazingly readable detail. The action on the Union right is not given sort-shrift either as the engagements at Culp's Hill and Cemetary Hill are deftly covered. Trudeau also does not hesitate to indict Lee for his failures at planning and leadership on this day and, to me, this is a refreshing twist missing from many contemporary accounts.<br />The actions on both the Union and Confederate side leading into the decisive 3rd day's battle cover most of the last quarter of the book and the engagement itself is wonderfully re-counted with \\"Pickett's Charge\\" and the action at the Cemetary Ridge \\"Angle\\" and \\"Copse of Tree's\\" prudently taking \\"center-stage\\" as the focal point. Lastly, the final minor skirmishes from both Cavalry forces, the Confederate retreat to Virginia (again brilliantly told from both the civilian and soldier perspective) and an excellent \\"Judgements\\" chapter close out the book.<br />Trudeau's previous contributions to Civil War history pretty much cover the end of the war (from the Overland campaign through Appomattox), but with \\"Gettysburg\\", he's truly out-done himself. Passionate, compellingly engaging and expertly judicious (not to mention the many useful and appreciated maps), this account stands as the most definitive one-volume account since Coddington's \\"Gettysburg: A Study in Command\\" 35 years ago and is very highly recommended. A \\"must-read\\"!!	2003-01-04
US	46220931	RK4YK1L6XKIH2	0679728317	142060077	Chancellorsville 1863: The Souls of the Brave	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Superb account of Confederacy's high point...	Contemporary Civil War readers today are extremely fortunate to have an abundance of truly gifted writers who have contributed a wealth of modern studies. Writers such as Stephen Sears, James McPherson, Wiley Sword, Noah Trudeau, Gordon Rhea and (a recent addition to the club) Jay Winik have joined the \\"masters\\" Bruce Catton and Shelby Foote in writing recent comprehensive narratives while maintaining readability. <br /> Now, having read \\"Chancellorsville 1863: The Souls of the Brave\\", I must include Ernest Furguson as a new addition to my list. This extraordinary account of the complex battle at Chancellorsville ranks right up there with these other pantheons of Civil War history. Furgurson manages to convey both the personal side of the struggle as well as an in-depth analysis of the many tactical maneauvers that make Chancellorsville one of the most studied and debated Civil War battles. <br /> Furgurson's story takes us from the bewildering post Fredericksburg period through Lee's monumental decision to again invade the North...a decision that led to the battle at Gettysburg and ultimate defeat for the Confederate army. The book starts at the failed \\"Mud March\\" and the Abraham Lincoln decision to remove Ambrose Burnside from command of the Federal army. <br />Enter \\"Fighting\\" Joe Hooker. <br /> Furgurson delivers a compelling biography of the outwardly confident, but morally weak General and goes a long way in explaining his future actions. At this point we also get insightful, pre-battle studies of R.E. Lee and (Furgurson's obvious hero) T.J. \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson. <br />Hooker takes the demoralized \\"Army of the Potomac\\" and rebuilds it into a confident, offensive machine in his own image in only 4 months. His plan to flank attack Lee's entrenched troops at Fredericksburg is explained as near \\"brilliance\\" and gives Hooker the start that he needs. Lee then divides his army as he learns of Hooker's plans and sends most of his forces Westward to meet the on-coming Federals. The initial battle is immediately bloody and shows that the Union army is, in fact, newly confident as it drives the Confederates back towards Fredericksburg. Hooker then, mysteriously, pulls his troops back into a defensive position around the Chancellor house and \\"dares\\" Lee to attack him. <br />Lee, of course, takes this dare and battles the Federals at Catherine's Furnace before allowing Jackson to start his flanking maneauver. Furgurson deftly describes Jackson's march and troop setup in the Wilderness at the extreme right flank of the Union army (with all the accounts of ignored intelligence by Union commanders) and the ensuing battle is wonderfully accounted as wave after wave of Rebel forces drive the Federals back to entrenched positions around Chancellorsville. Jackson's frustration at failing to completely destroy the Union army is ultimately to blame for his overly agressive \\"reconnoitering\\" ride to the edge of the Federal lines and shooting by his own confused troops. Furgurson then goes on to explain the unfathomable Union decision to vacate Hazel Grove and the Rebel surprise at obtaining this key strategic position. <br />The taking of Fredericksburg by Sedgwick's Federal forces and their march towards Chancellorsville ends up in the battle at Salem Church which shows a completely motivated Confederate army repulsing the Union advance...Furgurson is able to take all this complex tactical action and make picturesque detail for the reader, while also keeping the human drama at the fore-front of the story with many first-hand anecdotes of these battles.<br />The story ends with Hooker retreating across the Rappahannock River, camping again at Falmouth (from where he started his flanking attack) and Lee as the hero of the Southern cause. Jackson's post shooting journey to Guiney Station and death at Chandler House gives a touching alternative to the sometimes gruesome battle descriptions. In the end, Furgurson convinces the reader that the war would have been very different had Jackson lived. In fact, this is my only critique of this magnificent book...Furgurson's obvious idolization of Jackson seems to have momentarily forgotten his lethargy and in-actions at the Peninsula Seven Days battles and his almost mortal mistakes at Cedar Mountain. <br />This \\"hero-worship\\" notwithstanding, this book is an important, colorful and moving human story as well as an extensive military history and should be read by all who have even a faint interest in the Civil War. Very highly recommended!	2002-12-08
US	46220931	R34KFD7H0EO0E9	0807826731	231461531	Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Comprehensive revisionist campaign history...	Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg! is an excellent overall view of the post Antietam actions of both the Federal and Confederate armies as they maneuvered to and ultimately confronted each other at the important but little publicized Civil War battle of Fredericksburg. George Rable has combined a fairly detailed battle summary along with an enormous amount of &quot;everyday soldier&quot; feeling to give an accurate as well as highly readable account of this predecessor to the bloody battle at Chancellorsville. The story starts with the Union troops stalled at Warrenton Va. following the delayed pursuit of the Rebel army after the monolithic battle at Antietam. Abraham Lincoln, finally resigned to the fact that George McClellan will not agressively fight Robert E. Lee, appoints the ambivalent Ambrose Burnside to command the Federal forces. After Burnside reluctantly agrees to the post (he's refused command twice before) he marches his troops with lightening quickness to Falmouth with the idea of crossing the Rappahannock River to Fredericksburg and ultimately to Richmond to capture the Rebel capital. Upon arrival at Falmouth, however, he discovers that the War Department has forgotten to provide bridge material for the river crossing and he's forced to wait...giving Lee valuable time to countermarch and entrench his troops outside Fredericksburg. Rable then takes an opportunity to really describe Union and Confederate camp life...the reader gets many first hand accounts of the incredibly horrible conditions there (this camp has been called the Valley Forge of the Civil War) and how the troops ultimately prepared for the coming battle. Rable's battle and tactics descriptions of the engagements at Prospect Hill (south of town) and the incredible encounters at the stone wall at the base of Marye's Heights are concise and expository...clearly, this confrontation was a major mistake for the Union. Rable then carries that thought further by explaining Burnside's stubborness and reluctance to change his plans in the face of defeat. The result is one of the Civil War's most sensless slaughters and the final downfall for Burnside. The book ends with the demoralized Union forces again encamped at Falmouth (following the ridiculous &quot;Mud March&quot;...Burnside's last ditch attempt at redemption for his army) and a new leader (Joe Hooker) ready to assume command. In the final analysis, Rable's book is well balanced with enough battle detail to satisfy the military historian while at the same time, a lot of &quot;everyday&quot; soldier context to make this an excellent addition to any Civil War library. I would recommend this book highly.	2002-11-12
US	46220931	RKDDGNQFNBMTR	0395656680	1817676	Landscape Turned Red: The Battle of Antietam	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	So much carnage, so eloquently described...	Simply a classic...Stephen Sears belongs in a class with Bruce Catton for Civil War writing elegance while not compromising comprehensiveness. In &quot;Landscape Turned Red&quot;, Sears follows the Army of the Potomac from the retreat to Washington following 2nd Bull Run and carries it through the Confederate retreat back across the Potomac following the &quot;defeat&quot; at Sharpsburg. The regrouping of the Union army (now again under command of McClellan following the disasterous reign of John Pope) is covered in military and political context that shows where the state of both governments stood in the late summer of 1862. The Confederate administration was actively pursuing European intervention and Sears shows that the victory at 2nd Bull Run came very close to achieving that lofty goal...in fact, there were planned Parlimentary sessions to discuss this when the battle at Antietam occured. The Union state of affairs reflected the demoralizing state of the army and Lincoln's desperation for victory...he already had a draft copy of the Emancipation Proclamation ready to review with his Cabinet and Congress and just needed the proper showcase to administer it. Sears descibes the Confederate invasion of the North following the battle at Chantilly and the less than enthusiastic greeting of the people in Maryland...he really should have seen at this point that the invasion was in trouble. McClellan's chase of Lee takes on a whole new meaning when the &quot;Order 191&quot; of the Confederate invasion plan was found by a seargent at Frederick and the subsequent fighting at South Mountain and Harpers Ferry show Lee confused at McClellan's sudden agressiveness...Sears describes all this with his customary insight while also relying on 1st person accounts from the many diary/journal entries available from the soldiers and citizens of Maryland at this time. The preparations for the ultimate Confederate stand at Sharpsburg and Lee's unique skills at organizing his defense are offset by the plodding of McClellan and his underlying ineptness. Sears shows in graphic detail how opportunity after opportunity for Union victory are lost by McClellan and it's hard for the reader not to feel the frustration at this, especially with the knowledge of the coming carnage. The battle itself is covered wonderfully...Sears again (as in his book &quot;To the Gates of Richmond&quot;) gives the reader just enough battle details to be comprehensive, but stops short at the overkill stage. He has a unique ability to take complex battle tactics and detail these in an organized, but at the same time readable, story. The personal side is again not ignored as numerous diary entries are shared from both sides of the conflict...the final result gives the reader a true feeling of what it was like on the field at Sharpsburg. This is really evident at his coverage of the first part of the battle on the Confederate left...charge and counter-charge followed by attack and counter-attack along the Hagerstown Pike and in the Cornfield and East and West Woods shows how the slaughter escalated throughout the morning. The shifting of the battle to the Sunken Road and to Burnside's Bridge carry on the unbelievable carnage, ending only at sunset with the armies essentially at their original starting point. Sears talks about McClellan's lack of nerve to continue the battle the next day, while showing Lee's bravery at staying the course...only after assesing the situation with his generals that day does he realize that, even with McClellan in command, it would only be a matter of time before another attack and Confederate disaster occured. Following the Confederate retreat across the Potomac, we see the slumbering McClellan refuse to chase him...even after direct orders from Lincoln to destroy Lee's army are given. The book then closes with McClellan's dismissal and Lincoln's frustration at another opportunity lost. Sears' ability to combine all this into a novel-like story while maintaining comprehensivness tells me that he truly deserves his title as one of the pre-eminent Civil War historians today and I really look forward to reading more of his work. I give this book my highest recommendation!	2002-09-05
US	46220931	R2OIPUVSMN4B1Q	0811724387	786363941	From Cedar Mountain to Antietam (Stackpole)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Very good consolidation of this period of the war...	4 1/2 stars...This is the only book that I could find that described in detail the period from the end of the Peninsula campaign to Antietam. Stackpole describes this period in clear, concise terms (if not a little slanted to the Confederate point of view) while at the same time making it very readable. We learn all about the troop movements that the Federals made to vacate Harrison's Landing on the Peninsula, while seeing the formation of Pope's Army of Northern Virginia. The plan to consolidate these forces and re-attack Richmond is very clearly covered, but ultimately under-mined by McClellan and to a degree, Halleck as the Federal forces couldn't quite coordinate this seemingly simple troop movement. We get Lee's perspective on this and learn that he had an amazing ability to \\"read\\" his enemies' leadership and he ultimately based his troop plans, correctly, on these assumptions. The battle of Cedar Mountain starts the battle sequences for this campaign and shows this ability as Stonewall Jackson advances North to Gordonsville with the idea of crossing the Rappohannock River. The standoff at Cedar Mountain should have given the Federals the momentum that they needed to continue pursuit of the Confederates back to Gordonsville, but we learn quickly that John Pope, although much more agressive than McClellan, is far too inept to lead this large a force. What we see is Pope ordering again and again, a confusing series of movements to try to 1) outflank Lee and then (when it's discovered that Lee has information concerning this troop movement plan and plans to counter-attack) 2) to retreat back across the Rappohannock and establish an entrenchment north of the river. Stackpole, again writng squarely in the Confederate mindset, describes Lee's decision to divide his army and send Jackson on a flanking movement that ultimately ended up in the battle of second Manassas. Pope is severly criticized by Stackpole for lack of leadership and egotistical behaviour and shows how this combination hurt the Union chances at 2nd Manassas. Incredibly, McClellan re-obtains leadership of the combined Army of the Potomac (shown through lack of clear direction from Lincoln and Halleck) and even though learns of the precise invasion plans Lee had of Maryland, he moves at the deliberate pace that epitomized his tenure and misses many major opportunities to destroy the Confederates at South Mountain and finally, Antietam. Stackpole manages to interpret all this complex history into an enjoyable reading experience while still telling history as it should be told. The criticism of this book, to me, is the maps. These are topography maps that really confuse more than help the reader...although, towards the end of the book, they seemed to get better. Regardless, they are plentiful and give the reader the minimum idea of what's going on. Another critique is the brief and vague discussion of the Antietam action at the Sunken Road (Bloody Lane). Stackpole gives 2 pages to this complex action while spending much more time and length to the other sections of the battle and to me, it seemed to detract from the narrative. Finally, the Commentary section that D. Scott Hartwig provides (a re-evaluation of some of the conclusions that Stackpole had that have since come more to light with increased avaialble scholorship) is a surprisingly apt ending to the book. I really must characterize this as an important study of that period of the Civil War between the Peninsula Campaign and Antietam and recommend it highly.	2002-08-20
US	46220931	R333A3D7A911D0	1572491086	954407	We Shall Meet Again: The First Battle of Manassas (Bull Run) July 18-21, 1861	Books	5	4	4	N	N	On the battlefield at Bull Run...	Joanna McDonald has created an excellent account of the first battle at Bull Run Creek...I've not read a more comprehensive and at the same time extremely readable Civil War battle summary anywhere. Ms. McDonald combines detailed battle tactics with short &quot;vignette&quot; diversions that make this book a real treasure...and I don't think that you'll read any better battle description that puts you right into the fray...I was exhausted by the time I got to the federal retreat from Henry Hill. Each stage of the battle is covered in detail, but not overkilled, and is expertly supplemented by an extensive number of maps...I was initially a bit overtaken with all the maps, but later came to depend on them to cover the latest maneuver being discussed. McDonald does an excellent job at covering troop movements and strategy and then, just at the right time, interjects these short vignettes (little stories about the &quot;everyday&quot; soldier or group) that adds just the right perspective to give a poignant vision of that stage in the battle. To top it all off, Ms. McDonald closes the book with an effective epilouge that places the battle in the proper military and political context. In the final analysis, I would have to place this book into the &quot;essential&quot; Civil War reading category...certainly essential to understanding what happened at First Bull Run. I'm told that books by William C. Davis and John Hennessy on First Bull Run are the gauge by which all accounts of the battle are measured...I haven't read either of these, but I would be amazed if these are any better than this book and I enthusiastically recommend it!	2002-08-05
US	46220931	R106B31F9LOWS0	0195135210	436402699	Crossroads of Freedom: Antietam (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	24	28	N	Y	Antietam "mini-history" not lacking in quality...	James McPherson has again managed to combine military and political Civil War history into one great volume and,in this case, in a sort of \\"reader's digest\\" version that lacks neither quality nor insight. This short volume is a part of the new \\"Pivotal Moments in American History\\" series and succeeds overwhelmingly in portraying the battle, what led to it and the political/social climate of mid-1862. McPherson packs an amazing amount of information into this short (about 153 pages of text)book while still maintaining readability...the military situation leading up the initial Confederate invasion of Maryland is summarized well, as is with the on-going International maneuvering for Confederate government recognition. In fact, the strength of this work (in my opinion) is the International climate and how the Confederate ambassadors probed for the all-important foreign assistance that never came. McPherson shows actually how close they came to achieving this milestone and discusses how this would have changed the outcome of the conflict...this was something that wasn't covered as well in his Pulitzer Prize winning \\"Battle Cry of Freedom\\" and is a welcome addition here. The political and social issues that led to the Emancipation Proclamation are overlayed with numerous newspaper and diary entries from the \\"everyday\\" people that place this important development in context with the ever changing face of the military actions...Lincoln struggled to find the right timing to issue the Proclamation and McPherson gives an excellent account of that struggle. The only critique I'd mention is that the build up to the actual battle at Sharpsburg led me to believe that we'd get a detailed analysis of the battle...actually the battle is only in summary form and  was a minor letdown (I'll need to read the Stephen Sears account \\"Landscape Turned Red\\" to get the details I'm after I suppose). In summary, this is an excellent short summary of the early battles of the Civil War and a surprisingly comprehensive political discussion of that era and I would recommend it highly.	2002-07-31
US	46220931	R2MKD6EDPMPF4L	0618127135	509709654	To The Gates of Richmond: The Peninsula Campaign	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Impressive modern scholarship on Peninsula battles...	The Civil War Virginia Peninsula Campaign of 1862 set the tone for the Union implementation of the war for the subsequent 2 years and Stephen Sears chronicles this series of battles magnificently in \\"To the Gates of Richmond\\". The overwhelming thrust of this book descrbes in great detail how inept a battle general George McClellan was and how his poliicies led to the ultimate withdrawal of the \\"Army of the Potomac\\" from the Richmond front. The reader gets a true feeling of frustration at McClellan right from the beginning as the campaign starts with the siege at Yorktown. The Federals far outnumber the Confederates in this initial phase, but McClellan opts to entrench his army in the face of a much weaker and somewhat exhausted \\"Army of Northern Virginia\\"  just completing it's march down to the Peninsula from Manassas. Sears does a good job of documenting McClellan's lack of ability to obtain military intelligence but does a better job showing McClellan's lack of \\"the will to fight\\". And this isn't more evident than in the following battles at Williamsburg and Seven Pines/Fair Oaks...the Federals really had victory in their grasp, but because of the \\"defensive minded\\" leadership, the campaign continued on. An interesting debate on how long this faceoff at Richmond would have lasted can be had if Joe Johnston hadn't gotten wounded at Seven Pines and R.E. Lee hadn't taken over. Johnston was fairly \\"defensive-minded\\" himself and I'm sure that the campaign would not have followed the course that it ultimately did. Lee then, of course, initiated an offensive  that started with Jeb Stuart's cavalry ride around the Federal entrenchments, proceeded on to the battles at Mechanicsville, Gaines Mill, Savage's Station and Glendale before ending with the blood-bath at Malvern Hill and subsequent Union withdrawal to Harrison's Landing on the James River. Sears descibes each battle with just the right amount of military tactics and \\"real-person\\" accounts from the many journal/diary entries enclosed to give the reader a real feel for the action. His discussions of Longstreet's subversion of the plan at Seven Pines, the mysterious actions of Stonewall Jackson throughout the campaign, the bloody fighting and ultimate breakthrough by the Confederates at Gaines Mill and the standoffs at Savage's Station and Glendale adroitly precede the brilliant climax of the book at the \\"Guns of Malvern Hill\\" chapter and the amazing decision (by McClellan) to retreat to Harrison's Landing following the Malvern Hill victory. Sears continues his brilliant writing as he closes the book with the entrenchment at Harrison's Landing and subsequent withdrawal (ordered by Halleck and protested by McClellan) back up the Potomac. Sears proves himself to be one of the pre-eminent Civil War historians around today with this book and he should be considered an \\"essential\\" author in any reading of the conflict...I definitely look forward to reading his other books and would recommend this book very highly.	2002-07-29
US	46220931	R33C1X9YYDGJDX	0609607669	232930099	Batavia's Graveyard: The True Story of the Mad Heretic Who Led History's Bloodiest Mutiny	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Marvelous &quot;swashbuckling&quot; sea and rescue story...	Upon finishing &quot;Batavia's Graveyard&quot; I'm still hard pressed to believe that this is actually a true story...Mike Dash's writing and story-telling ability abound in this wonderful book and it truly reads like a novel. Not only is it masterful story-telling, but it's darned good history reading as the reader gets exceptional coverage of early 17th century Danish life. The history of the early East Indies Spice Trade period and it's impact on Dutch civilization is expertly told from it's infancy in the mid 16th century up to and including the mid 1620's when the &quot;Batavia&quot; trade ship completes construction and sets sail for the East Indies (Dash also manages to adroitly describe early 17th century ship-building in technical, but at the same time, very readable prose). The personalities involved in the story (mutineers and non-mutineers alike) are brought to life throughout the book as Dash's character descriptions are very realistic and surprisingly complete, especially given the fact that very little useful information survives from this era. The grisly murders and actions of Cornelisz and his gang on the islands following the ship-wreck and their lack of rationale offset the tropical &quot;feel&quot; of life there...Dash creates an excellent balance between survival tactics (lack of food, water...etc) and total fear for one's life as the mutineers run rampant. On a parallel path, is the rescue effort and it's timing is the highlight of the book. Finally, the judgements handed down for all the killers and an extremely comprehensive Epilouge close out this stimulating book which reads amazingly quickly (80 to 100 pages at a sitting goes very quickly). A great book for the general reader or a history buff, &quot;Batavia's Graveyard&quot; should get serious Pulitzer consideration and I would characterize it as a &quot;must-read&quot;.	2002-07-02
US	46220931	R2RMZKWDW5SBD4	0385044518	260143252	A Stillness at Appomattox (Army of the Potomac, Vol. 3)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Military history at it's eloquent best...	With &quot;A Stillness at Appomattox&quot;, Bruce Catton has achieved the high water mark for Civil War, and for that matter, Military history writing. The winner of the Pulitzer in 1953, this story is still fresh and energetic today, far outdistancing many other more modern accounts. Told from the Union soldier's perspective, this book isn't so much a history of battles, tactics...etc. but how the &quot;everyday&quot; soldier fit into the confrontations and how he subsequently responded to Union leadership. This volume (Vol 3 of the Army of the Potomac series) traces the War in Virginia in 1864 from the crossing of the Rapidan River for the Wilderness battle up to and including the final surrender at Appotmattox and what a story it is! Catton manges to weave the story of each engagement with just the right amount of personal and historical content that makes this very much accurate as well as incredibly readable. Nowhere can you find such elegant writing describing the horrific actions of both the Union and Confederate Armies as they battled from the Wilderness to Spotsylvania to North Anna and onto Cold Harbor in the first part of 1864. His descriptions and analysis of the battlefields and troop movements at Cold Harbor, for example, border on genius... I really felt like I knew how the Union soldiers felt and what drastic measures and portenting doom they went through preparing for and fighting this incredible battle. The subsequent movement to and siege of Petersburg is also wonderfully told with emphasis on the &quot;Crater&quot; fiasco, Fort Stedman and trench life in general... you get a true feeling of the frustration and, finally, the exhilaration that the Union soldiers and generals must have felt when the final breakthrough of the Confederate lines was achieved. Finally, the scene at Appomattox was presented in a completely different manner then I've ever read before...very little is discussed concerning Grant's and Lee's surrender actions...it's all toldfrom the battlefield perspective and (to use a previous reviewer's words) is breathless. This &quot;Army of the Potomac&quot; series, needless to say, is very definetly essential Civil War reading with &quot;A Stillness at Appomattox&quot; the high water mark...extremely highly recommended!	2002-06-18
US	46220931	R8BLABXIPNKBE	0684802317	327792241	President Nixon: Alone in the White House	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Truly an enigmatic man and story...	Richard Reeves takes a different tact (from his previous Presidential biography of JFK) in this comprehensive and, at the same time, haunting portrayal of Richard Nixon. Granted, there is more material available (compared to Kennedy's presidency) to make an in-depth judgement of the Nixon administration, but Reeves' appears to have also re-fit his writing style and reporting to this specific story and the results (in my opinion) are a major success. We see Nixon as an insecure and manipulative chief executive while at the same time scoring major Foreign policy coups (China and Moscow summit visits as examples...) and Reeves manages to weave these together in a very detailed but highly readable account that, I feel, paints Nixon fairly and accurately. Relying on many sources, and with the perspective of almost 30 years, Reeves presents surprisingly in-depth coverage of the inner-workings of the Nixon presidency...full of late 60's and early 70's domestic and foreign policy discussion that effectively sets the framework for the end of the Vietnam conflict as well as giving the reader a feeling of what it was like actually inside the White House. The little known fueding between Henry Kissinger and Secretary-of-State Bill Rogers is shown to be one of the major motivations behind Kissinger's somewhat duplicitous actions on the Foreign policy front along with the, at times, un-believably insecure actions and writings of Nixon himself...all the covert actions against perceived Presidential rivals, the Establishment and anyone else who got in his way (either real or imagined) is covered in explicit detail...making for fascinating reading. Watergate and it's slow dissolution of Nixon's Presidency is effectively covered as is the destruction of his staff and,  ultimately, himself. The only critique I'd mention is that the book essentially ends with the \\"firings\\" of Haldeman and Erlichman and leaves the rest of his Presidential collapse in the Epilouge (with only a fraction of the detail found in previous chapters...makes me wonder if the \\"Haldeman Diaries\\" was the primary source). In the final analysis, the Nixon administration was famous for lying, cheating and inappropriate behaviour while at the same time being famous for opening major Foreign policy doors and Reeves' book presents both with equal treatment that should be added to essential reading of the Nixon administration.	2002-05-28
US	46220931	R3VS9WBQG2V54P	0345359429	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom:  The Civil War Era	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Best combination of Military &amp; Political Civil War history	The Civil War era of the Oxford history series is covered magnificently with McPherson's epic account. Nowhere does one get a better explanation of the political environment of the 1850's and 1860's and how it segues into the start of the War. The debate over slavery and State's rights prior to the War is covered in clear and concise detail as is the secession process and abolitionist theories...the reader really gets the context with which the War started. As in other Oxford histories, the War is summarized in adequate detail (although military history buff's will not be impressed with the battle details), but this book's attraction is how the political and social climate interact with the on-going war...we get the conflict as we all know it overlayed with &quot;everyday life&quot; of the 1860's and it gives a unique and pleasing perspective...one that deserves the Pulitzer Prize (won for History in 1988). Some surprisingly new details (to me) are also presented such as: Lincoln's political maneuvering (McPherson shows him to be a masterful politician)...Jefferson Davis's administration and the woeful shape of the Confederate economy (one wonders how they were able to prosecute the War for as long as they did) and a wonderful description of Sherman's march from Atlanta to Savannah and into South Carolina...many details of the country-wide destruction and the annihilation of the southern army's will to wage war were new and enjoyable to me. Finally, U. S. Grant's &quot;Overland Campaign&quot; (the final battle sequences from the Wilderness to Petersburg and Appomattox...my favorite battle sequence) is vividly described and wonderfully placed in context with the end of the war in the Western theatre. To say that this book belongs in the essential Civil War reading library is an understatement...this account should be one of the first read for any enthusiast or general reader and I recommend it highly.	2002-04-27
US	46220931	R2S1GUG9AP4Q4	0684804158	247100270	Curse of Rocky Colavito: A Loving Look at a Thirty-Year Slump	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Tribe...this is my team!	A wonderful trip down memory lane, as I appear to be a contemporary of Terry Pluto in that I really relate to the Indians troubles from the mid-60's to their resurgence in 1995. As a youngster growing up, my favorite Indian was Sam McDowell and it was exciting and at the same time troubling to read how his personal problems affected his amazing potential. I, like Pluto, became a Tribe fan by listening to my father and went through all the frustration of watching a team that just did not appear to want to win...we were just happy if they were not in last place by July 4th every year! Pluto brought back many memories when he went into discussions like the Ken Harrelson trade, the deal that brought Gaylord Perry to Cleveland, the Dennis Eckersley era where my then favorite player George Hendrick prospered (and this is my only somewhat selfish critique of the book in that Hendrick is barely mentioned), the Wayne Garland fiasco and Len Barker's perfect game. These are all milestones for Tribe fans in an otherwise desulatory period of baseball watching. The purchase of the team by the Jacobs brothers and the day-to-day general management from Hank Peters and John Hart sets the stage for his next book on the Tribe's wonderful 1995 season where they finally put it all together. (Just a side note from a frustrated fan...if the Indians had played the 1995 World Series against the Braves in June of that year, we'd have smoked them!!!). In summary, this is an excellent book for the average baseball fan and a must-read for any Tribe fan who can remember the frustrations of the 60's and 70's. Go Tribe!	2002-03-08
US	46220931	R2NGXC75T6HUF9	034542753X	556257635	Rise to Rebellion	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Revolution from a vastly different perspective...	The American Revolution story has been told and re-told many times, which leads me on a constant search for different &quot;slants&quot; with respect to how this story is told. My search has succeeded magnificently with Jeff Shaara's latest historical novel. This &quot;old&quot; story is re-interpreted here with the help of fictitious conversations and thoughts from many of the legendary Founding Fathers that add a whole new (and exciting) perspective...and, I might add, a whole new learning experience. The details of such legendary events as the Boston Massacre and Tea Party, the battles of Lexington, Concord and Bunker/Breed's Hill are richly and colorfully presented here with emphasis on the first person perspective that elevates the reader right into the action in a manner that I've never read before. It's interesting to note how just adding some perceived thoughts and discussions (fictitous though they are) add so much texture to the story...this is really the point that makes this book stand out. I could actually see and feel what it was like for the British soldiers facing the angry mob in front of the Boston Custom House prior to the Massacre...I felt like one of the sailors aboard the tea ship in Boston Harbor when the &quot;Indians&quot; came aboard and destroyed the East India Tea Company's load...I was breathlessly taken to &quot;war&quot; at Lexington and Concord (told from both the Colonial and British perspective)and then &quot;camped&quot; with the rebels at the siege of Boston as they were molded into the Colonial Army. The political side is covered equally as well with an enlightening version of how the Continental Congress was formed and how that esteemed body developed the Declaration of Independence. One could argue the historical accuracy of some of Shaara's assumptions, but I tend to accept them as part of the &quot;novel&quot; and, admittedly, enjoy the &quot;fun&quot; that these portray. Lastly, I greatly enjoyed Shaara's Epilouge where he presented the outcome for all the main characters...this was an amazing learning experience (to me) as most histories that I've read fail to disclose these events...at least in this context. So, after reading this wonderful account, I join with my contemporaries in saying that I too can't wait for the sequal and look forward to reading the other works by Shaara. Highly recommended.resented the outcome for all the main characters...this was an amazing learning experience (to me) as most histories that I've read fail to disclose these events...at least in this context. So, after reading this wonderful account, I join with my contemporaries in saying that I too can't wait for the sequal and look forward to reading the other works by Shaara. Highly recommended.	2002-02-25
US	46220931	R16GON4MABFA4U	0195038347	89984256	Freedom from Fear: The American People in Depression and War, 1929-1945 (Oxford History of the United States)	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Sweeping, compelling narrative...	A broad scoped and scholarly account of the Great Depression and the period up to and including World War II. Kennedy makes what at first would appear to be a monumental task seem effortless and proves that history on this scale can be told in lucid, well written text. The story of the 1929 Stock Market collapse is clearly and concisely explained in sort of \\"laymen's\\" terms (the politically correct way of saying \\"for the economically dumb\\"...like me)and he proves that this was not the sole cause of the ensuing \\"Great Depression\\" (the excesses of the 1920's were at least as culpable). FDR's New Deal policies and effects make up many chapters and I liked the way that Kennedy was able to take the discussion from a detailed policy forum to how it then affected the common person. We get plenty of \\"context\\" in terms of the everyday person/family and how they were affected by all the New Deal programs (some in exhaustive detail...). At the same time, we're kept in touch with events in Europe and how the American \\"isolationist\\" foreign policy was a factor in Hitler's and Mussolini's initial reign of terror. Also, the American pre-war relationship with Great Britian discloses (for me) many new surprises as we see the large influence that Churchill had initially over FDR. The war battles and strategy are summarized extremely well and, again, Kennedy is able to effortlessly go from detailed battle discussions to how it's effects were felt on the home-front...in fact one of my favorite chapters is titled \\"The Homefront Cauldron\\" where we see the industrial buildup, the effect of the fast growing economy on both the general public (more jobs) and the government and a marvelous discussion on the making of the first Atomic Weapon. The chapter dealing with the end of the war seemed a bit hurried but is made up for in the Epilouge where Kennedy summarizes the whole \\"post-war\\" affect on the ensuing generation(s). In the final analysis, this is history on a grand scale and serves the Oxford History Series well as a comprehensive study for this era and deserves the Pulitzer (won in 2000 for history) and to be read widely by all interested in the Depression and WWII. High recommendation.Oxford History Series well as a comprehensive study for this era and deserves the Pulitzer (won in 2000 for history) and to be read widely by all interested in the Depression and WWII. High recommendation.	2002-02-04
US	46220931	R2FO3F9MWX17DJ	0525945717	617663719	Flight: My Life in Mission Control	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Chris Kraft's addition to Apollo history...	I'm usually pretty critical of these Apollo era biographies...I've read a lot on this period and now, subsequently, use as a &quot;rule-of-thumb&quot; the amount of new information that I get when I read one of these determines whether I like it or not. Kraft's story exposed many new nuances and heretofore unknown insider tid-bits that make this a worthy (to me) addition to the history of Apollo. Further, Kraft's honest and straightforward re-telling of his story makes for excellent reading and reminds me somewhat of the book &quot;Deke&quot; by the late Deke Slayton (both no nonsense types and, not surprisingly, good friends). The early history of the Space Task Group is re-told from one of it's &quot;Founding Father's&quot; perspective and takes a slightly divergent path from other accounts by extolling the leadership capabilities of Bob Gilruth, a man who truly has not recieved his due in the grand history of Manned Spaceflight. All the early members of the STG learned from him and, as Kraft states again and again, his intelligence and vision were the real drivers behind the ultimate success of the program. I really enjoyed Kraft's &quot;with the bark off&quot; opinions of all the legendary personalities (Scott Carpenter's ears must have permanent &quot;burn&quot; damage...)and his personal experiences as the original Flight Director. Once Kraft was promoted to Senior Management, this book takes on that perspective and gave me new insights into the history of the program...for example, we hear about the post Apollo 15 (my favorite mission) &quot;stamp&quot; scandal in a completely different light than I've ever heard before when we learn how close NASA came to government litigation and how this (selling personal items flown to/from the Moon) was fairly common practice amoung the astronauts. Kraft also describes the fustration that he went through during the NASA post Apollo planning and budget reductions that ultimately led to the Space Shuttle. Finally, we get the obligatory sermon concerning the currently eroded vision of manned spaceflight and what we as a country need to do to recover. All told, this is a fine book, a quick and enjoyable read and one that should be read by anyone interested in the un-varnished details of the early manned spaceflight program.	2002-01-21
US	46220931	R10RTYC55Q4HDD	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Roosevelt's administration comes alive...	Edmund Morris's elegant writing style comes to the fore-front in this surprising piece of scholarship. The Roosevelt Presidency is analyzed and I don't think you'll find a better written, but at the same time, more scholarly account anywhere.It's interesting to compare the styles of two of the more prominent history biographers (Morris and David McCullough with &quot;Harry Truman&quot;) with each having written a major work on a Presidential administration.In McCullough's &quot;Truman&quot;, we really get to know the subject on a personal level and literally feel all the stress and emotion of being President. The story, then, is fit into the historical context and the reader gets an intimate account as well as an historical one. With Morris, the opposite appears true...we get an inspiring and detailed discussion of the details of TR's Presidency, with bits of personal tidbits thrown in that attempts to give the same type of feeling that McCullough gives, without compromising the historical structure. And I must admit that this approach succeeds on some levels, but overall, fails to make it as readable (i.e. enjoyable) as McCullough's. In defense of Morris though, the TR Presidency (in my opinion) just wasn't that interesting (trust-busting, railroad regulation and labor mediation necessarily makes up a large portion of this book but, even in Morris's lively writing style, still comes across as rather boring).That being said, this is still an important and monumental biography that deserves to be read and savored. The points in this book that I would consider enjoyable (Roosevelt's inheritance of the Presidency from McKinley, the Panama Canal story, the Russo-Japanese War mediation as examples...) are enjoyable on a large scale and really carry this book. His personal dealings with all the important characters of the time (J.P. Morgan, John Rockefeller...)are described in fairly lucid prose that presents an interesting portrayal of the key history makers. Roosevelt'sravenous reading habits and the physical vitality of his nature get a fair coverage, but could have been better (unlike one of the previous reviewers, I would have prefered to hear more of Roosevelt's &quot;Tennis Cabinet&quot;...). Finally, I think that Morris gives an excellent overall account of where Roosevelt stands in Presidential history and this book, I would think, should be considered the modern standard for TR's administration. High recommendation.	2002-01-08
US	46220931	R1LRZPQKVF5RJZ	0670870218	642048318	Liberty!: The American Revolution	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fleming continues lively &quot;Revolutionary&quot; writing...	I continue to be surprised with these movie &quot;companion&quot; books (the Civil War by Geoffrey Ward and Panther by Mario Van Peebles are other notable works). This is an excellent summary of the Revolution and, at some levels, exceeds other more celebrated accounts. We get all kinds of &quot;context&quot; presented with the numerous pictures and paintings as well as little &quot;side-bars&quot; that richly describe,among other things, life in the 13 colonies, the Liberty Bell story and the truth concerning Betsey Ross and the American Flag. Fleming's writing is good, if not a tad &quot;dry&quot;, but some details are covered better here than in other histories (the little-known battle of Monotomny as the British are retreating from Concorde is given excellent coverage, for example...). The post-war era up to and including the development and the signing of the Constitution is remarkably detailed and, from which, I learned much. The biggest critique that I'd discuss is the almost criminal lack of maps...these types of books generally make their reputations on the inclusion of excellent battle maps (again, Ward's &quot;Civil War&quot; is the standard), but they are very noticably lacking here. Finally, as other reviewers have stated, this should not be viewed as a comprehensive covering of the war, but it is an excellent introduction and, notwithstanding the movie, completely stands on it's own.	2001-12-26
US	46220931	R34XVZYEJJDU7H	0809225972	310691046	The Bob Love Story: If It's Gonna Be, It's Up to Me	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Stunningly honest story thats too painful to believe...	It's amazing that a one-time NBA super-star ends up mopping floors, waiting on tables and enduring major abuse and embarrasment while trying to make ends meet...every NBA executive should read this to ensure that League policy does not allow this to happen again. I bought this to hear some inside details on one of my favorite NBA players of all time (I remember in 1974 going out to buy &quot;Pro-Keds&quot; sneakers for my season because that's what Bob Love wore)and came away stunned at what Love went through before re-claiming his life. I was vaguely aware that he'd had hard times post-retirement, but not at this level and this account, quite frankly, makes me admire him more. In brutally &quot;straight-forward&quot; writing he details all the problems that beset him and how his inner-strength and formidable character allowed him to keep his sanity and, ultimately, allowed him to get a semblance of dignity back. You won't get too much basketball detail here (his career takes on surprisingly few pages), but I think that this is Love's intent. This is the success story of a man resurrecting his life from the depths, some of which he helped make (failure to face his stuttering problem) and speaks to a higher level than basketball. My heart truly goes out to him and I'm very glad to hear that he's now doing well. An inspiring read!	2001-12-10
US	46220931	RUVMQPOT87KJF	0671869205	680068737	Truman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	McCullough &quot;gives it hell&quot;...	The winner of the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1993, this is the standard that all historical biographies should aspire to. This is an inspiring, entertaining and wonderfully readable story (notwithstanding the 992 pages) that truly makes you wish it wouldn't end. The trademark of David McCullough biographies is that you really feel like you know the subject and are a part of his story throughout(Washington Roebling, Teddy Roosevelt and John Adams are subjects that McCullough has brought back to life through his wonderful writing style). Truman's story is no exception as we see him progress from small-town farmboy to the Presidency. This epic starts a little slowly with Truman's childhood and early adult life, but picks up dramatically with his involvement in World War I (where we first see his leadership capabilities) and doesn't let up from there. Post war business failures only seemed to inspire him and his career advances with his recruitment into the Pendergast political machine of Kansas City. Through a number of low-level political jobs, Truman builds his reputation as a &quot;no-nonsense&quot; leader that ultimately gets him elected to the Senate and into the national political arena. This is the point that this book really takes off and offers some of the best writing that I've ever read. Truman's nomination as Vice-President, his attainment of the Oval Office upon FDR's death, the Potsdam peace conference,the Truman Doctrine/Marshall plan and his decision for the use of the Atomic Bomb are chapters that make for really breathtaking reading. The amazing thing is that through all of this McCullough manages to keep the reader on a personal level with Truman and you really feel his tension and emotions through those &quot;heady&quot; times. We seem to learn about what it's like being the President right along with him in his first term and not many biographies can afford that level of intimacy. The 1948 campaign against Thomas Dewey, the development of NATO, the assasination attempt by Puerto Rican nationalists and the progressing involvement and subsequent military campaign in Korea (along with the ultimate firing of Douglas MacArthur) are all highlights of the second half of the book and continue the rich and elegant writing style. Truman's decision not to run in 1952 and his post-Presidency activities right up to his death in 1972 are poignantly covered as the story closes. Personality sketches of such historical legends as Chuchill, Roosevelt, Acheson, Marshall and Eisenhower are fabulous and offer many new perspectives to this phenominally important period of our history. Truman's &quot;give 'em hell&quot; attitude is prevelant throughout, highlighted by the following excerpt...&quot;For a while the mood overall seemed one of a death watch over his Presidency. New poll results showed that only 32% of the people approved of the way he was handling his job; and 43% thought it had been a mistake for the U.S. to go to war in Korea. But polls meant no more to him now than ever before. &quot;How far would Moses have gotten if he'd taken a poll in Egypt?&quot;... Alonzo Hamby, the noted Truman historian, noted in the bibliography of his book &quot;Man of the People&quot; that McCullough's account &quot;was a nicely told story, but episodic and lacking historical perspective&quot;, a critique that, I think indirectly, is McCullough's intent...he doesn't want to just re-tell historical facts with his biographies. His real objective is to tell the human story and fit it into the historical context and he succeeds overwhelmingly. Highest recommendation!	2001-12-03
US	46220931	R221B1AM2JWJQ8	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Superb Foreign Policy writing...	The first (and I bet the most comprehensive) account of what really happened in the Balkans, Somalia and Haiti during the latter part of the Bush (the first) administration, the transitional period and on into the Clinton period. Halberstam continues to show that his strength is in National Security and Foriegn Policy writing and he doesn't disappoint in this book. We get to understand clearly what the issues were with regard to the U.S. policy in Europe at the end of the Bush term and how that administration stumbled in recognizing the impact that the escalating domestic violence in the Balkans would have. All the Bush State and NSC officials who dictated and administered foreign policy are described in hard-line, but fair terms (i.e. Halberstam doesn't hesitate to &quot;blame&quot; Larry Eagleburger for not recognizing the potential impact and pushing the Bush administration to take action before too late.) The Clinton transition and their staunch stand on domestic policy and how that hurt them is clear and concise and shows how that administration was doomed (from a Foreign Policy perspective) from the start. Weaknesses at State (W. Christopher), Defense (the incredibly weak Les Aspin term) and the NSC (the embattled Tony Lake) come to the forefront as the administration staggered out of the gate. Even the realization after the Bosnian episode that Milosovic would not stop his ethnic cleansing rampage isn't clearly evident to this besieged government...it took continued massacre in Kosovo to finally turn the tide. Halberstam is on top of all this and his weaving of the political issues at home with the continued stumbling in Europe (and Somalia and Haiti) is truly fascinating to read. Once the NATO air campaign started, it was intrieging to read who supported the policy and who didn't (i.e. Bill Cohen as Secretary of Defense always struck me as having hard-line, &quot;hawkish&quot; Republican tendancies, not the &quot;dove-like&quot; qualities that Halberstam describes him as having) and what political fallout could come from it. These inside revelations really sold this story to me, as these policies are still fresh on everyone's mind. The only critique I would mention (and it's very minor) is that the continued Iraq/ Middle East policies are barely mentioned (maybe Halberstam can use these to write a part two)and these should have definetly been considered when critiqing the administration's actions during this time. Overall, this is as clear and comprehensive a report on the Clinton Foreign Policy team that you'll find and I would recommend it highly.	2001-10-29
US	46220931	RS58KSQNJQV6	0671656929	268295127	Five Seasons: A Baseball Companion	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	&quot;The Master&quot; does it again...	Part two of Roger Angell's 15 year written love affair with baseball...this book picks up where &quot;The Summer Game&quot; left off and doesn't miss a beat, covering the 1972 through 1976 seasons. Each chapter has all the classic written/observed anecdotes that Angell is famous for, as well as expert detailed coverage of the game(s) and the ever-discouraging front-office activities that the 70's were famous for (the Reserve Clause, the advent of Free Agency...etc). Still, Angell's ability to write insightful and elegant observations are what make this and The Summer Game standout and really makes all other baseball writing pale by comparison. For this book, he also adds something different when he takes on small projects such as following a Major League scout around the country, visiting with three Detroit Tiger fanatics and detailing the almost tragic rise and fall of Steve Blass, the Pittsburgh Pirate hero from the 1971 World Series. Each of these off-normal stories essentially &quot;tells&quot; itself, but Angell frames each in his own inimitable style that really defines &quot;story-telling&quot;. I have such high regard for his writing that I wish he'd take on other projects (like history writing in general), as I'm sure that he'd excel there too (of course, being in his 80's probably has a lot to do with which projects he chooses to undertake). I read recently that Angell hates being called the &quot;Poet Laureat&quot; of baseball writing, but I can't think of a finer term for so marvelous a writer. This book should be combined with &quot;Summer Game&quot; and re-issued as a single volume for future writers to use as a model for taking a subject and turn it into expert storytelling. Highest recommendation!	2001-10-22
US	46220931	R2RPCC4STUEC3O	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Revolutionary philosophy 101...	An absorbingly new and unique perspective on a period of our history that's been told and re-told many times over. Mr. Ellis presents an impressively comprehensive dissertation on what I like to call &quot;Revolutionary philosophy&quot;. Many accounts of the war and the period discuss battles or general overviews of the Continental Congress and it's participants, but nowhere (Bernard Bailyn's &quot;Ideological Origins of the American Revolution&quot; being a notable exception) have we gotten into the real meaning of the Revolution and the major obstacles that the Founders had to overcome to establish the Republic that stands today. Through a well-told (but sometimes, admittedly, too &quot;wordy&quot;) series of short stories, we get a firm understanding of what the major issues were in the post Revolutionary period and an insight to the people that made up our Government who's responsibility it was to solve them. And solve them they did, whether it was through quiet manipulation via back channels (James Madison and Thomas Jefferson)or through violence (the Hamilton/Burr duel). For the most part, however, we really see what the Founders were made of and why they are held in the legendary esteem that they are today (Washington, Franklin and Adams). The book accomplishes all this in surprisingly few pages (about 250), but what it lacks in quantity, it more than makes up for in quality. I enjoyed the chapters entitled &quot;The Duel, &quot;Farewell&quot;, &quot;Collaborators&quot; and the surprising chapters that closed out the book on the Jefferson/Adams fued, and in every story, we get a refreshing look at the principals and an extensive (as I mentioned before, sometimes too extensive) philosophical discussion on the true meaning of the establishment of our Republic.... with the recent release of David McCullough's &quot;John Adams&quot; you really have new and exciting Revolutionary reading thats easy to understand and hard to put down.	2001-10-08
US	46220931	RDYIXXCM3Y9OB	0688001297	489070835	A Short History of World War I	Books	3	25	28	N	Y	3 1/2 stars...useful summary of a complex struggle...	I must agree with some of the previous reviewers in that parts of this book are very dry and perhaps boring...I would submit that there is little excitement generated in trench warfare and these are the areas of this book where it does get mundane. That being said, this still is not a bad book at all...the alliance structure of the late 19th century into the 20th are covered in better than adequate detail (a good springboard for Tuchman's &quot;Guns of August&quot;)and the initiation of the conflict is truthfully told as one escalation followed by another (the childish practice of one country trying to &quot;one-up&quot; the other). I think that this is the area where this book really succeeds because we get a clear understanding of how strong this alliance structure became and, subsequently, how the war was essentially un-avoidable. True, the initial battles all seemed to run together as each side tried to &quot;out-offensive&quot; the other but then they settled in for the 4 year trench warfare battle that only dissapated when the United States became engaged. All theatres of the conflict get good coverage and the major battles (Ypres, Gallipoli, Verdun...) are also given their due. The Eastern Front and the Russian &quot;October Revolution&quot; are also highlights as Stokesbury obviously understood the impact of the Revolution on the outcome of the war. Another strongpoint is the realization on the part of the Central powers that the War was un-winnable and that surrender terms were finally warranted. Stokesbury covers this concisely and flows right into the surrender treaties at Versaille (this book did bring up a new fact to me...each country that surrendered signed a different treaty and the Versaille Treaty was for the Germans only). It is a fact that the social and, to a point, the political climates get minimal coverage and this truly does detract from the storyline. In summary, better and more colorful accounts of the War are available elsewhere, but this is a better than average general read and a good starting point for further study.is a better than average general read and a good starting point for further study.	2001-10-01
US	46220931	R3HBVKQA7EDZEN	0252064305	901883767	The War of 1812: A SHORT HISTORY	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Short history but not sacrificing quality...	This book was a real find...All the details leading up to the the initiation of this &quot;forgotten&quot; conflict are covered in clear, lucid ways that let the reader know what was happening to drive the country to war, but, conversely, it doesn't get bogged down in un-necessary detail. For such a short book, Hickey does a remarkable job with covering the political, military and (most welcome to me) social climates of the early 19th century. We learn all about the early U.S. economy and how important it was to have the good trade relationship with England and France that we initially had and how the subsequent naval conflicts with these countries affected that commerce. The other issues that led to the initiation of war, that were so complex, are covered clearly and concisely (no easy task...other books on this subject delve into much unnecessary detail that only cloud the issue leading to much confusion). All the important strategy (on the English and Native Indian side as well as the U.S. side)and battles are woven into a well balanced account. Additionally, the maps that are provided only add to that understanding. The stunning events of Fort McHenry, the burning of the White House and Andrew Jackson's battle of New Orleans are given their proper due along with lesser known conflicts along both Lakes Erie and Ontario. Finally, the political maneuvering on the part of the U.S. delegation at Ghent get a &quot;to-the-point&quot; summary that clearly lets the reader know what all the issues were that ended the war. Hickey is not bashful about stating that this war was, at best, a draw and that the U.S. &quot;won&quot; by not losing and that the diplomats at Ghent were ultimately responsible. Overall, I'm sure that the long version of this book went into much more detail on the battles and diplomacy, but, for a summary, you won't find many accounts better.	2001-09-17
US	46220931	R2JW6DMRMOJ59F	0060187239	630454514	April 1865: The Month That Saved America	Books	4	11	13	N	N	4 1/2 stars...Jay Winik does it again...	For me, this was a pleasantly unique look at the Civil War...Jay Winik has proven capable of taking complex/integrated issues and breaking them down into damn fine story-telling. His book &quot;On The Brink&quot; dealt with the Reagan administration's managing of the end of the Cold War and more than met this tough standard. In &quot;April 1865&quot; we get the final month of the Civil War put under the microscope and many new details (to me) surfaced that were not part of my Civil War common knowledge (...the very high potential for guerilla warfare while surrender terms were being discussed at Appomattox, the details of the Sherman-Johnston surrender at Bennet House...etc.) Winik also tells the story of April 1865 without sacrificing the &quot;big picture&quot; (we get a decent summary and perspective on how the war got to this point). He also goes into the main reasoning of how the war started (slavery) and covers, sometimes in gruesome detail, strategies of some of the major battles. Also, his summaries of the &quot;Wilderness&quot; battle and subsequent confrontations leading to and including the siege at Petersburg (the Overland campaign) is as well told as I've read from Catton or Foote. The real eye-opening aspect of this book, however, is Winik's conclusions that draw the reader to the realization of how close we really came to a disjointed nation at the end and how this country owes much to the leaders of both sides, following Lincoln's assasination and before the &quot;Reconstruction&quot; effort started, for pulling the Nation together. My only critique (and the reason that it gets 4 1/2 stars) is that the Epilouge really needed to talk in more detail about the the results of the Reconstruction and the timeline that it followed (he did a marvelous job, for example, telling us that most of the major Southern states didn't re-join the Nation until 1870). Overall, this book deserves to be mentioned right up there with most of the popular Civil War books andshould be required Civil War reading. Highly recommended.	2001-09-10
US	46220931	RPCZ9LAACLPJ	0671207148	488116612	The Johnstown Flood	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Social History and culture superbly tied together...	&quot;The Johnstown Flood&quot; is an excellent vehicle for describing the Industrial Revolution of the late 19th Century and the culture of those times and David McCullough does both superbly with this book. An intimate discussion of the Steel industry and it's relationship to towns just like Johnstown is framed by the gruesome details of the disaster and, as always in a David McCullough book, in a highly personal way that draws in the reader and lets him be a part of the story. We get the all important background of the development of the South Fork Fishing and Hunting club as well as the building/maintaining history of the Dam. The storm and it's affect on not only Conemaugh Lake, but all the surrounding tributaries (as they integrate to form the lake) is described in such terms as to give the reader the portent of the coming disaster. The &quot;human&quot; story is combined with the tragic reality of the &quot;wall of water&quot; as it carves it's path through the countryside and it gives the reader the perspective needed to see the true devastation to the towns. The only critiques to this book that I'd even mention are that I would have liked to have read more on the floods' path as it passed Johnstown and went through Cambria City and how it subsequently dissapated (we read how debris and bodies are discovered all the way into Pittsburgh, for example). Also, the story of how the town was re-built and a disclosure of any monuments to the disaster that exist today would have closed the story out for me a little better...but these are very minor omittances and they don't detract from the central theme at all. Overall, this book is just another in the long line of fabulous historical writings that David McCullough has made into an art form and is highly recommended.	2001-08-27
US	46220931	R366WOHW70QP6A	0679755438	800950828	The Civil War: The complete text of the bestselling narrative history of the Civil War--based on the celebrated PBS television series	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Civil War as an illustrated history...	An outstanding book...you get all the emotion and history of the war without even watching the movie. Most accounts of the war that I've read do not approach this level of personal touch (Bruce Catton being a notable exception) and this weaving of everyday life with the battle details makes for an exceptional perspective. I especially enjoyed the integration of photos with Ward's outstanding writing style and the digressions into cultural issues (slavery, politics...)which really gives the reader an intimate &quot;feel&quot; of what the times and the war were all about. The war in the West is given equal billing to the more celebrated Virginia account and Ward proves that the Union momentum sprang largly from these battles. Lastly, I've never seen better maps of all the battles...these really made each confrontation stand out and gave me a better &quot;picture&quot; of &quot;who went where&quot;. I bought this book thinking I'd get a summary of the movie and a brief overview of the war...I now think that this belongs on any Civil War library shelf. Highly recommended!	2001-08-16
US	46220931	R3O4VQV10OI3VO	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Epic account with a personal touch...	David McCullough continues to excel at writing monumental biographies but still making it readable and personal. McCullough manages to cover a major portion of our history and still give the reader the feeling of being at Adam's side throughout. All the major events are recounted (the true story of the writing of the Declaration of Independance, the Paris peace treaty, Adams as vice president as well as president...) as well as little known events largely surrounding his time spent as an ambassador to France and Great Britan. Adams famed personal independance is felt throughout the book, but, more surprising, so are his intimate emotions concerning life and family. Finally, McCullough also excels at vivid descriptions of what life was truly like at the end of the 18th century and into the 19th that gives this book the richness that makes it stand out. History writing on this scale is rare indeed and should be the springboard to other large scale biographies. Highly recommended.	2001-07-31
US	46220931	R1V12FUA1798U	068812304X	842883735	A Short History of the American Revolution	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Good, short-and-to-the-point account of the Revolution...	I thought this short history covered the Revolution very well. Most of these type books are very &quot;textbook-ish&quot;, but Stokesbury manages to convey the essential history with some color and excitement that makes this stand out. Some details that aren't extensively covered in other more celebrated accounts are clearly told here along with the major stories. Also, and to my great surprise, the maps that are provided are plentiful and clearly anotated that the other more comprehensive accounts lack. I would recommend that anyone interested in the Revolution, but not intimate with all the details, read this book as an introduction.	2001-07-31
US	46220931	RYN9GVTL5GDHE	0345341929	471408672	The Summer Game	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Poet-Lauret of baseball...	Maybe the best writer that I've ever read and not just about baseball...I must concur with the other reviewers that it's scandelous that this and other Roger Angell books are out of print, especially with all the sub-par writing that is on the market today. Mr. Angell's ability to craft details into a much larger story and tell it with humour and keen insight are amazing to me. Chapter after chapter of this book are combined into one long pleasing account from a fan's perspective that  leaves you wishing that it would never end. More than just a season-by-season run-down, Angell provides his views with a unique perspective for each season that goes beyond mere sports reporting and seems to provide a theme that is clever, humerous and poignant. This should be read by every baseball fan to see what real sports-writing is like and I think that you'll agree that all other sports commentary pales by comparison. Highest recommendation.	2001-07-09
US	46220931	R1AX8SZZVPVV67	0374265011	811044930	Big Chief Elizabeth: The Adventures and Fate of the First English Colonists in America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Your school text book should have read like this...	Wonderfully readable account of the initial colonization of America by the British. It's amazing to me that there is this much detailed information available about this era and, given that, Giles Milton crafts it such that you get the &quot;feel&quot; of what it was like in the late 1500's in both England and in the colonies. Realistic and sometimes gruesome, it shows that the initial colonization of America was no picnic. Details of starvation, organization and relationships with the natives will leave you wondering why the English kept coming back. The Elizabethian society is well chronicled and Milton does a fabulous job of portraying Sir Walter Raliegh's rise and fall as well as the true stories of John Smith and Pocahantus. Finally, his conclusions on the fate of the missing Roanoke colonists are very plausible. Overall a colorful and entertaining read making you wish that all history was written this way.	2001-07-03
US	46220931	R3MNM12ZPCCG8W	0892046627	641529312	61* : The Story of Roger Maris, Mickey Mantle and One Magical Summer	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Excellent detailed account of &quot;the Race&quot;...	Wonderful week-by-week breakdown of the race for Ruth's record...the writing is just detailed enough about the games, but, better, the words and pictures put you right in the Yankee locker room during the 1961 season. You get a true feeling for the pressure that Maris went through along with Mantle's aborted effort due to injury...there's also plenty of charts and graphs to show the breakdown by game, pitcher (left or right handed) and comparison to Ruth's pace. Finally, I thought it was a great touch to add the McGwire chase and breaking of the record and how the Maris family (his sons) was on hand. Probably not a better history of that memorable summer written anywhere and certainly none as pleasing to the eye...highly recommended.	2001-06-06
US	46220931	R8YCMM8HHNOO3	0449983676	289885381	October 1964	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Wonderful account of the beginning of the end for the Yanks	Excellent book! The character buildup and locker-room details make this one of the best baseball books written. Though not as &quot;romantic&quot; as Roger Angell's &quot;The Summer Game&quot;, it goes in depth with all the personalities (however minor) that had a part in the incredible late-season surge of the Cardinals (and late season faltering of the Phillies) as well as the last great Yankee team. As if that's not enough, the Epilouge follows-up with what happened to all the key personnel to make this book a must have for the baseball buff or a great read for the casual fan...highly recommended.	2001-06-06
US	46220931	R310MCVMKT4GNF	0374120366	790704457	No Downlink: A Dramatic Narrative About the Challenger Accident and Our Time	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good general account of Challenger and NASA culture...	One of the first books of the Challenger disaster, this is a good general discussion of that event as well as a decent analysis of NASA's perceived &quot;downfall&quot; from the heights of the Apollo program to the stressed, over-ranging attempts at cheap, monthly launches of the Shuttle. Jensen gives a balanced account of the Launch decision making (although, I agree with the previous reviewer that he could have provided much more technical detail) and subsequent investigation(s) and does a fair job at blaming the right people without seeming to point the finger. Overall, a good starting point for details of the accident, it'll probably make you pursue other accounts (like D. Vaughn's &quot;Challenger Launch Decision&quot;).	2001-05-22
US	46220931	R1DDLQJ3B9J45M	0688078591	893233615	85 Days: The Last Campaign of Robert Kennedy	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The most complete story of the campaign &amp; shooting aftermath	Fabulous book! This is the most complete and comprehensive account of the ill-fated 1968 Presidential campaign of RFK ever written. All the speeches, campaign stops and strategy meetings are discussed in detail as well as an analysis of RFK's platform and the deteriorating political relationship with fellow Democratic candidate Eugene McCarthy are vividly covered...Witcover really puts the reader right into the campaign and it's never more evident than when the assasination and subsequent hospital stay and funeral are covered. Most books about this campaign cover just the campaign details or the assasination and none cover completely all the post assasination details like this book does (i.e. we hear about how 3 people are injured/killed in the funeral train procession). Finally, Witcover's conclusions about Kennedy's policies and speculation about his possible Presidency are right on target. Overall, this is an essential book in understanding RFK's transformation from the &quot;Ruthless Cannonball&quot; into a caring/[...] person who very well would have been President...highly recommended.	2001-05-22
US	46220931	R2ZJSWWELJGOEZ	0805472274	826292836	To Rule the Night	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Good account of Apollo 15...	3 and 1/2 stars...This is an excellent companion to Chaiken's &quot;Man on the Moon&quot; for the account of the Apollo 15 mission...Irwin confirms the relentless/intense desire of mission commander Dave Scott to &quot;give his all&quot; for science and he also honestly discusses the &quot;stamp&quot; scandal that essentially ruined this crew's chance to fly again. All the important details of the mission and Irwin's feelings about being on the moon are all covered very well as well as enough technical detail to keep the Apollo buffs (like me) happy. I realize that Irwin became a minister following his astronaut career, so it was an essential part of the story, but he spent too much time and detail discussing his religious feelings and I personally think that this detracted from the story. Good read for the general Apollo enthusiast, great for the detailed Apollo 15 review, but definetly a turn for the worse when he enters the ministry portion of the story.	2001-05-22
US	46220931	RT535ZGPO2NXD	031285918X	879560065	Deke ! U.S. Manned Space From Mercury To the Shuttle	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Different and interesting perspective from a no-nonsense guy	As an avid reader of the manned space program, I tend to enjoy books that don't just re-hash the history of the program and space race with the Soviets... and I got it here. Slayton gives us his no-nonsense explanation and perspective of the program while not over-burdening us with details that are found numerous times over in other accounts (like his co-authorship with Alan Shepard for &quot;Moonshot&quot;) ... what this leaves you with is a picture of how (I'm sure) Slayton went about his business with NASA and how others at NASA perceived him. I enjoyed his &quot;get on with it&quot; attitude as well as his explanation of some of the lesser known items from the early days (i.e. his Mercury mission would have been called Delta-7 had he had a chance to fly it...). Don't get this book expecting just a chronology of the space race, but get it if you want an account that assumes that you know a little of the program and want a different perspective of it	2001-05-17
US	46220931	RUY3E0VZVJGQX	1570361673	649959444	Moon Shot: The Inside Story of America's Race to the Moon	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Good account of Apollo 14, but better overall books elsewher	I must agree somewhat with one of the early reviewers that essentially trashed this book...the only real value that I got was the detailed account of the Apollo 14 mission and , to a lesser degree, the Apollo-Soyuez mission in 1975. Shepard's &quot;great friendship&quot; with Deke Slayton that is gone into in almost sickening detail here is re-buked in &quot;Deke!&quot;, a book written by Slayton alone and published at almost the same time! Even the video version (titled the same &quot;Moonshot&quot;) is weak and you can definetly get better accounts of the program elsewhere.	2001-05-17
US	46220931	R378S2C1BDUBFF	0743200799	940393502	Failure Is Not an Option: Mission Control from Mercury to Apollo 13 and Beyond	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Apollo as seen from Flight Operations...	This account from Gene Kranz should be considered one of the comprehensive mission operations viewpoints from Mission Control (the other being Murray/Cox \\"Apollo, the Race to the Moon\\")for the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo era...many new \\"insider\\" gems are presented here for the casual manned spaceflight reader or the spaceflight buff, all told in \\"rah-rah\\" patriotic prose. To say that Kranz's heart was and always will be in Mission Control is an understatement. After reading this, his whole life, it would  appear, is centered around his role as Flight Director. And what a life it was! Uncommonly unique details of the mission planning, training and performance abound here...reading of the training for Apollo 11, how the 1201 and 1202 computer alarms while performing powered descent were simulated on the last training day prior to the mission were priceless...nowhere would you get this level of detail (unless another Flight Director [other than Chris Kraft] writes his memoirs) and the unique telling of it. Kranz's opinions of his controllers and Flight Director peers are also unique in that no-one else could submit what it was like working with these people and for this program day-to-day like him. This is a quick and easy read with lots of unique information that should be counted with the many existing accounts that are \\"required\\" manned spaceflight reading.	2001-05-17
US	46220931	R3C9EK8K6EFBE2	0312263511	954230535	The Last Man on the Moon: Astronaut Eugene Cernan and America's Race in Space	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not bad, but better overall astronaut accounts elsewhere...	This is a pretty light (and light-hearted) account of one of the most experienced astronauts in NASA history. Really, just a re-hashing of the program and the space race with only a few new details (Gemini space-walking problems...Apollo 17 details). This only serves as a decent compliment to Chaiken's &quot;Man on the Moon&quot; and pales in astronaut biography to Lovell's &quot;Lost Moon&quot;. Not a totally bad read, but not great history either...	2001-05-17
US	46220931	R3542TW5PM59KE	0809255472	266849616	The Warning: Accident at Three Mile Island	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Surprisingly good mix of technical detail and storytelling	As someone who works at a Nuclear plant, I've had much training on the accident at TMI in much greater detail than provided in this book (although, Gray does do a decent job at explaining how operators responded to that paricular event...he does leave out a lot, however). The best thing about this, for me, was his obvious research with regard to other facilities that had the same problem prior to TMI and the lack of a Nuclear network to help get the word out (we have an extensive network of information sharing now). The character descriptions are excellent and the story does flow like a novel...get this book (if you can find it...it's been out of print for a while) if you want a reasonably close explanation of what occured at TMI, but get it more for the story and the background information.	2001-05-15
US	46220931	R1OKL4HWB2KO25	0160489091	773206461	Stages to Saturn: A Technological History of the Apollo/Saturn Launch Vehicles (NASA SP)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Textbook account of the buiding &amp; operation of the Saturn...	Being the avid manned spaceflight reader that I am, this book was a gold-mine. The history of not only the Saturn V is covered here, but also the earlier (less powerful) Saturn I and IB as well as the early proposals for other Saturn launch vehicles. Then, if that's not enough, you get stage-by-stage and engine-by-engine technical explanations along with each components' history. Marvelous! I've only been able to find this book at libraries, (unless you want to spend hundred[s] of dollars for collectable editions online) but, if you're an Apollo program or Saturn V afficienado, it's worth looking for. Highly recommended!	2001-05-15
US	46220931	R14I25Y3BNEEFO	081380471X	198173320	Vectors to Spare: The Life of an Air Traffic Controller	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Personal account of life in the ATC world...	Actually 3 1/2 stars...I was a little disappointed in this because I was expecting more technical explanation of ATC practices versus a kind of memoir on Brenlove's life in ATC. There were some definite interesting parts and this book isn't bad at all, just know what you'll be reading when you get it. That being said, I'd probably still buy this book because, as I mentioned before, there is some value here and makes for entertaining reading, just don't expect to gain any real insight into ATC processes.	2001-05-15
US	46220931	R1KASKIXBE3W0J	0816514437	86679631	To a Rocky Moon: A Geologist's History of Lunar Exploration	Books	3	6	8	N	N	3 and 1/2 stars...Major lunar geology discussion...	Whew!...You almost need to take a geology class before tackling this. Wilhems goes into great detail describing the moon from a geologists standpoint, so be prepared for that, but, the things that I took from this is that he also describes the early history of the un-manned program of lunar exploration (Ranger and Surveyor programs) in excellent detail as well as the geology history of the manned program, training and all. Obviously, the later (Apollo 15 through 17) missions are covered in more detail than the early ones, but there is something here for everyone interested in the Apollo program...just be prepared to be inundated with geology-speak.	2001-05-15
US	46220931	R34F3KWDV1M9H2	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Chiiling...even in this &quot;police report&quot; writing style...	Full/comprehensive account of the most chilling (in my opinion) true-crime story of the 20th century. If you don't mind a writing style comparable to a Police Report, than you'll really enjoy this. I'm not a Zodiac expert (I read this after I saw an excellent &quot;Nash Bridges&quot; episode on a Zodiac copy-cat), but I can't imagine a more detailed analysis of those crimes and, since Graysmith was close to the action, his opinions carry weight. From what I can tell, this is the best account available of these crimes and I would recommend this book highly.	2001-05-14
US	46220931	R3BNT978MFW80X	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;High adventure&quot; at it's finest...and it's all true!	You get it all with this book...expert story-telling in a writng style that puts you on Everest with Krakauer's team, gut-wrenching remorse for all the mistakes (Krakauer's and the team's) made that cost the lives of some of his fellow climbers, technical explanations of mountain-climbing (acclimitization was a term/theory that I had no idea of) and, finally, follow-up on all the important people/events that characterized this story. In short, it's easy to see why this book spent time as a &quot;best-seller&quot;...you won't be able to put it down. Highest recommendation!	2001-05-14
US	46220931	R17R5URO7JS5U1	0345335163	368857529	Hammer of the Gods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Led Zep was definetly NOT Houses of the Holy...	Fantastic story! Even if this isn't all exactly true, it's highly entertaining and a classic read of a classic band. The early Yardbirds account and the hedonistic life led on the road were very informative to me. The big benefit to this book is Davis's capability as author of actually putting you in the 60's and 70's for Zep's hayday...I do see the previous reviewers point of a sort of &quot;rush-through&quot; of the final years, but the details leading up to that more than offset this minor critique. A real page-turner and hard to put down, especially if you're a Zep fan.	2001-05-14
US	46220931	R24BYGH5FRUVEO	0553259857	250592556	'Scuse Me While I Kiss the Sky: The Life of Jimi Hendrix	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Comprehensive look at a Rock icon...	Excellent account of Hendrix's life (drug use and all) with the only critique that I might add is how can Henderson know or even speculate what thoughts went through Hendrix's mind particularly when he lay dying? There is a lot of this type of verbage here, but if you can get around that, this is an invaluable story that definetly puts you into Hendrix's life (a big strongpoint of this book) particularly during the major events (Monterey, Fillmore, Woodstock...) and is well worth the read.	2001-05-14
US	46220931	R3INCKL87784E2	0306809907	859939862	Friday Night Lights: A Town, A Team, And A Dream	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Forget the football, this is an excellent life story...	Probably like everyone else, I bought this book expecting to read about the Texas high school football tradition, but instead learned a little more about how athletics are overemphasized at the high school level. My current town in Texas has had recent success (4 state titles in the 90's)in high school football and I hope we're never the subject of a story like this (I've seen the football program grow from nothing [not a single win in the '85 season] to the &quot;State&quot; level)...all high school administrations should somehow be made to re-read this book every year. That being said, this is an excellent book and Bissinger is to be commended for writing an honest account when it would have been easy to get caught up in the emotion...highly recommended.	2001-05-11
US	46220931	R3FNLL7ML4SBZD	0684815095	867634714	The Last Shot: City Streets, Basketball Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic, real life depiction of NYC city 'ball...	Not only a great book about NYC basketball, but a better one about inner-city life, eclipsed only by R. Telander's &quot;Heaven is a Playground&quot;. Having spent most of 2 Summers in Brooklyn playing b-ball in '80 and'81, I'm still amazed that the hopes and dreams of these young men aren't shattered by the long odds of getting out. The educational system is a shambles and they are constantly reminded that basketball talent will take them only so far, but when this is all you've got to look forward to, reality takes on a different vision...I've seen first hand the life that Mr. Frey depicts and can tell you that this is as realistic as it gets. Very highly recommended reading!	2001-05-11
US	46220931	R2IQKSR3DEJ43N	0684852632	378132672	Shadow : Five Presidents and the Legacy of Watergate	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Some classis parts, but overall uneven...	I thought that the sections dealing with the pre-Clinton administrations were excellent and I was well on my way to thinking that this was a classic book...then I got to the Clinton section and was very disappointed. I was hoping for more than just another account of Clinton's indiscretions, but this could definetly be thrown into that pile. Some kudos, I guess, for new information, but, in my opinion, the Clinton chapters are so &quot;National Enquirer-ish&quot;, it offsets the good parts. Also, the overall writing in the Clinton section could be much better (too dry). Read the Ford through Bush sections, but don't bother with the Clinton chapter.	2001-05-10
US	46220931	R3AAJWPLCJDIJB	068806647X	518635164	Fleetwood: My Life and Adventures in Fleetwood Mac	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Highly entertaining and surprising history of Fleetwood Mac	I fully expected to read all the &quot;soap-opera-ish&quot; accounts of the turbulent Nicks-Buckingham early years (you do get plenty of this), but I didn't realize the original Fleetwood Mac had such an interesting early history! I've heard all the stories about this account not being 100% factual, but, even if it's not entirely accurate, it's very definetly worth the read. Fleetwood's self-depricating humor and honest (to a fault) dialouge make this one of the best Rock books that I've read...highly recommended.	2001-05-10
US	46220931	R17AZUJ6VODUVS	0671749218	29135449	Loose Balls	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fantastic account of a by-gone era...	I was probably the number one George Gervin fan in my younger days, but knew very little about his start in the ABA until I read this book. You won't find a more comprehensive account of that fun league and this book, with all it's character interviews and anecdotal accounts, is highly entertaining to boot. The previous reviewer is right...it's written in sections so that you can read it over time, but I had trouble putting it down and I suspect that you will too.	2001-05-10
US	46220931	R346QWJ8JCDSR2	0803294271	403309510	Heaven Is a Playground	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	The &quot;Mother&quot; to all subsequent inner-city hoop stories...	One of the best books I've ever read! I spent some time in Brooklyn playing 'ball in the early 80's and must admit that this book was my guideline. Believe me, this is how inner-city basketball was in the 70's - 80's timeframe and R. Telander is to be highly commended for getting it right. I've probably read this 40 times since it came out and can still not put it down. I would just die for a follow-up story of what happened to all these people (from Fly Williams to Roy Hill)...Highest recommendation!	2001-05-10
US	46220931	R3BVQMBVEYWMQC	0671796666	127432424	The Jordan Rules	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent insiders account...shows all Jordan's sides...	Fantastic book! I really enjoy these &quot;insider&quot; accounts of day-to-day life (especially in the NBA) and had an inkling that MJ may have been more than the nice-guy he's made out to be by the media...this book definetly confirms that! But this is much more than just a Jordan ego-trip portrayal...it expertly tells the story of the Bulls championship run and all the real time, day to day problems that they all had (Pippen, P. Jackson...). Highly recommended!	2001-05-10
US	46220931	RTD9V1BSHPTBV	0801850975	95766842	Thirteen: The Apollo Flight That Failed	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Before J. Lovell's &quot;Lost Moon&quot;, this was the definitve story	The first detailed account of the Apollo 13 accident (this book originally came out in the early 70's) and one of the best (second only to Lovell's &quot;Lost Moon&quot;). Cooper tells the entire mission story and uses many of the Mission Control transcripts that (in my opinion) are the difference between a third person telling of a mission story or a feeling of actually being there. This book has been re-printed, so it's availability isn't an issue. Read this along with Lost Moon and you'll see the blatant errors in the movie &quot;Apollo 13&quot;. Highly recommended.	2001-05-09
US	46220931	R2JANNKZB6GWR6	0316321001	533272797	The Generals' War : The Inside Story of the Conflict in the Gulf	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Comprehensive account of the planning for Desert Storm...	This is the only book that I've read on Desert Storm, but I'll bet that you won't find one that better describes all the considerations in the planning for the mission. Gordon covers all bases in the planning and excecution of the mission (from the Middle East to Washington)and that's what I bought the book for, so if you're looking for a comprehensive account of the Gulf War (with some unvarnished opinions thrown in) than you should get this book. Recommended.	2001-05-08
US	46220931	R3BGM4THL0DVD4	0375400648	184518587	Locked in the Cabinet	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fantastic inside account written for the general reader...	I loved this book...most Cabinet history that I've read describes somewhat the inner workings of that particular administration and the policies associated with it, but Reich takes them and makes them great reading. Honest and straight-forward, Reich describes the government and the early Clinton administration in easy, real-people writing along with much anecdotal humor uncommon in the accounts that I mentioned above. As the previous reviewer mentioned, just reading him describing how slow and sluggish the decision making process is or how hard it is to get close to Clinton to convince him that his (Clinton's) economic policies are misguided is, if not surprising, at least entertaining. One of the few political books I've read that I would describe as hard to put down.	2001-05-08
US	46220931	RFT646NDVG0HL	0446392383	923704764	Fighting for Peace: 7 Critical Years in the Pentagon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Shows Weinberger to be more than &quot;rigid&quot;...	Most accounts of the Reagan administration characterize Casper Weinberger as the hawkish pro-military buidup Defense Secretary of the early years and the un-bending, un-yeilding Pentagon chief of the later years before he was &quot;ousted&quot;. This book offers Cap's perspective and, even if you don't agree with all his reasoning and policies, provides a different perspective of the Reagan years. You don't get everything that occured during Weinberger's rein, but he does offer his angle of most of the major events and reasons for his being maligned towards the end of his term. His loyalty to Reagan is un-questioned and this story is somewhat biased towards those policies, but it's definetly worth reading (you may have some trouble finding it as it's out of print). Highly recommended.	2001-05-08
US	46220931	RSDV7KUW5OOZV	0393037916	84805825	The Killing of Robert F. Kennedy: An Investigation of Motive, Means, and Opportunity	Books	4	8	17	N	N	Comprehensive and exhaustive research...	If you're interested in the almost minute-by-minute details of the RFK assasination and the subsequent investigation (along with all the conspiracy theories) than this is for you...I personally was happy to see Moldea go exclusively from a conspiracy mind-set to the correct (in my opinion...I can't imagine another shooter in such a crowded/cramped Ambassador Hotel kitchen) conclusion that Sirhan was the lone gunman. He seems to offer logical conclusions to most of the evidence, however, I do see what some of the other reviewers' point is...he sets about proving conspiracy, than reverses his opinion without re-evaluating some of his earlier conclusions. Overall, an excellent account of one of our darkest days, Moldea succeeds in putting you at the Ambassador on that fateful night and that alone would be enough to make me read this book.	2001-05-07
US	46220931	RSUYI1TYLE72X	1891620916	299684156	President Reagan: The Role Of A Lifetime	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The definitive Reagan Presidential account...	Finally, a book that tells the Reagan Presidential story as it should be told...I've always suspected that Reagan's term was successful more due to the outstanding appointees/staff that he had through most of his 8 years in office (McFarlane, Poindexter, North notwithstanding) than with his own leadership skills...I can very definetly see Reagan asleep at a Cabinet meeting or getting over-run with bad decisions from the afore mentioned individuals, and have trouble en-visioning him being the great world leader that he's always made out to be. I think that people like Shultz and Weinberger and Carlucci and Powell were the drivers for this administration and Reagan generally sat back and watched and this book steers you in that direction more than any I've read. You should read all the popular accounts of the Reagan administration, but I'll bet this book tells the real story and kudos to Cannon for having the nerve to write it.	2001-05-07
US	46220931	R7PZUGBJU6P93	1566632676	592837874	Woodrow Wilson: World Statesman	Books	3	16	19	N	Y	Extremely comprehensive, but lacking readability...	3 and 1/2 stars...An excellent one volume account of Wilson and probably the best analysis of his Presidency and policies that's available. My critique and the reason that it only gets 3 1/2 stars is because this book fails to put you into the early 1900's with Wilson and fails miserably (in my opinion) to give any &quot;atmosphere&quot; concerning that time or especially WWI. Precise analysis of all Wilson's actions are given, but no perspective, so it definately reads like a textbook. Worthwile for historical research, but not for general reading.	2001-05-07
US	46220931	RH8F2IF5DTZI7	0151783209	696703810	Robert Kennedy: The Last Campaign	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Really puts you with RFK in the '68 campaign...	A marvelous book! Bill Eppridge's pictures along with the subtle prose take you back to 1968 for the RFK Presidential campaign. Eppridge and Gorey do such a good job that you're once again shocked when Sirhan fires his gun. If you get this book along with Jules Witcover's 85 Days (both out-of-print, but easiliy available through on-line book searches) you'll have a definite and detailed understanding of RFK's vision for America in '68. A must have for the Kennedy historian.	2001-05-07
US	46220931	RNGAD5TE6FQH3	1557042276	511641700	Panther: A Pictorial History of the Black Panthers and the Story Behind the Film	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Surprisingly in-depth and the pictures are classic...	I purchased this book expecting largly a pictoral history and a few words dedicated to the making of the film...what I got was a surprisingly in-depth history of the BPP magnificently supplemented with many pictures! This really should be the first book a person reads to get a general history of the movement. Generally biased towards the Panther founders (...they could do no wrong in the early days of the movement), it offers a much more balanced account of the late days and subsequent downfall of the Party. The section dealing with the making of the film was interesting, but a little long-winded in describing each detail. Overall, an excellent and surprising book that I'd highly recommend.	2001-05-07
US	46220931	R30YEYXFARG897	0449908704	357701822	The Best and the Brightest	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The definitive account of our entry into Vietnam...	Four and one-half stars...easy to see that although this book came out in 1972, it is the standard by which all other accounts of the Vietnam conflict are measured. I can only second some of the conclusions that other reviewers have (everything that really can be said about this book has been said...). The personal accounts of McNamara, Rusk, Bundy...etc are excellent and all encompassing. The chronology is relatively easy to follow, but Halberstam does get bogged down in details (it seemed to me) and that slowed the narrative down for me. I wholeheartedly agree with the reviewer who concluded that this book had this level of detail without the benefit of references and still tells the story authoritatively. It will take you a while to get through this, but it's worth it and you'll essentially just read re-hashes of this in most other Vietnam accounts. Highly recommended.	2001-05-04
US	46220931	R1NAAVB232EN3D	0813114349	107191559	The Secretary of Defense	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very good history, only account of Schlesingers term around.	You should really enjoy reading about Cabinet history before trying this book, but if you do, you won't be disappointed. This isn't a complete history of the Secretary of Defense (look at the DOD Web page for an excellent summary) but rather a look at the highlights. The best part, in my opinion, was the chapter dealing with James Schlesinger's term in office. Validates my opinion that he was one of the most under-rated and best Secretaries the government has ever seen and is the only real account of his stay in office that I can find. You'll get bogged down in budget detail (a necessity for any Pentagon chief to consider) but the historical perspective that Kinnard gives more than makes up for it. Good Cabinet history.	2001-05-04
US	46220931	R37T3SSQYG9TS8	0060929081	900958788	Dereliction of Duty: Johnson, McNamara, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Lies That Led to Vietnam	Books	2	9	28	N	N	Excellent research, &quot;dry-as-a-bone&quot; writing style...	Reminds me of the book &quot;One Hell of a Gamble&quot; on the Cuban Missile Crisis (masterful research, &quot;textbook&quot; writing style). I also must agree with some of the earlier reviewers of this book that nothing new is really presented here and the conclusions give no new insight into Vietnam. Disappointing and not really worth your time and money.	2001-05-04
US	46220931	R23099LTXJWILF	0451403460	506526883	J F K: A Conspiracy of Silence	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Truth or Fantasy???	I loved this book! It was only after I had completed it that I found that there were questions concerning Dr. Crenshaw's integrity and account of the assasination. Even if some of what he writes is exaggeration, this just can't be complete fabrication and still makes me think in terms of conspiracy. Regardless, this book, if nothing else, gives a new view of the assasination and is worth reading. Entertaining!	2001-05-03
US	46220931	R19J42SO5J1F0U	082630768X	696829963	The Day the Sun Rose Twice: The Story of the Trinity Site Nuclear Explosion, July 16, 1945	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not as exciting as it could be, but worthwhile...	My rating is really 3 1/2 stars...as the previous reviewiers have stated, this book has a lot of previously unknown information and is really written for the Trinity Test/Site enthusiast. Could be a lot more exciting, but well worth the read and should probably be read before you read R. Rhodes &quot;Making of the Atomic Bomb&quot;.	2001-05-03
US	46220931	RPKB0ZU6RMQ9Y	0393318346	580762283	Thirteen Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not quite the &quot;insiders&quot; tale that we all thought...	Excellent account of the Crisis, but, with the publication of &quot;The Kennedy Tapes&quot;, it shows that this account was written more from RFK's memory than any extensive research. That being said, this was the definitive account of the Crisis for years and was the basis for the excellent ABC television theatre &quot;The Missiles of October&quot; (1974) with Wiiliam Devane as JFK and a young Martin Sheen as RFK (he must be typcast as a Whitehouse actor). Anyone interested at all with the events of October 1962 must read this book.	2001-05-03
US	46220931	R3IM9ZS1BCPN6W	0333630521	843931969	The Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Reads like a Term paper, but with some valuable info...	3 and 1/2 stars. A straight-forward account of the Crisis that has the essence of a college term paper...there is some value here in that you get Mr. Whites' analysis/views on the approaches taken by Kennedy and EXCOMM with the perspective of 34 years, but there are better and more readable accounts of the Crisis out there.	2001-05-03
US	46220931	R1G1T8SJJ8JQ1O	0671892894	44177409	President Kennedy: Profile of Power	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A true Kennedy Presidential history...	It seems that every one has the same overall opinion of this account of the JFK Whitehouse years...&quot;balanced&quot;. It really is refreshing to read a history of the Kennedy administration these days without going into the &quot;mud-slinging&quot;. I'd compare this book to the Lou Cannon account of Reagan for clear concise Presidential history with minimal diversion and it's made me want to pursue other well-known histories of the JFK years like Schlesingers &quot;Thousand Days&quot;...etc. Excellent read.	2001-05-03
US	46220931	R3TU0PJPITGUEH	0195098315	347956212	Paul Revere's Ride	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A surprising gem of a book...	As a fairly active history reader, I didn't realize that this much material was available on Paul Revere...One must now include this surprising summary in any essential reading of the Revolutionary War, specifically the battles of Lexington and Concorde. The &quot;mountain&quot; of information not-withstanding, the over-riding pleasure of this book (to me) was Mr. Fischer's capability to put one in Boston in the early 1770's and give a perspective that's sorely lacking in other discussions of this major era in our history. I only gave it 4 stars because of the almost confusing amount of notes and additional information carried in the appendiceies, but this book is well-worth buying and reading!	2001-05-01
US	46220931	R3D1SV1LCXL2E3	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	History as it should be written...	There's really not anything more that I can add that all the previous reviewers haven't already said, but I did want to include my 5 star rating. I didn't know much about the specifics of Iwo Jima (just another Pacific theatre battle to get to Japan), but after reading this classic, I'm again re-enforced with the feeling of sacrifice that occured and the utter chaos of the WWII trenches. This will definately give you the feeling of being there and, coupled with the opening scene from &quot;Saving Private Ryan&quot;, are all you need to understand war and specifically WWII.	2001-05-01
US	46220931	RLYC6T8PGRW0Q	0306803070	39208991	Rebels And Redcoats: The American Revolution Through The Eyes Of Those That Fought And Lived It (Da Capo Paperback)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellant one-volume summary...	I actually give this book 4 1/2 stars...very definately one of the top one-volume discussions of the Revolutionary War...it's all here from Lexington to Valley Forge to the Southern theatre to Yorktown in straight-forward and non &quot;textbook&quot; prose. The best part, though, is the numerous quotations from the participants and observers that give this the &quot;first person&quot; perspective needed in any major war discussion. Buy this along with Langguth's &quot;Patriots&quot; and Bobrick's &quot;Angel in the Whirlwind&quot; for definitive one-book accounts of this major era in our history.	2001-05-01
US	46220931	RN13XB4X83SGM	0684824140	408700157	Dark Sun: The Making of the Hydrogen Bomb	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A little disappointing...	The parts of this book that discuss the thermo-nuclear theory and implementation/building of the first device are excellant as befits Mr. Rhodes...the balance of the story revolves around the parallel operation that the Soviets were undertaking with regard to their atomic program and it paled by comparison. Although important, I would have prefered all the &quot;spy&quot; history covered in another volume and a little more personal detail on the U.S. thermo-nuclear program included. That being said, this book is the definite discussion of how the Cold War entered the thermo-nuclear age. Recommended reading.	2001-05-01
US	46220931	R6QV086OI71H3	0440122392	142936110	The Ends of Power	Books	5	13	16	N	Y	Might be the best of the &quot;insiders&quot; view on Watergate ...	I must second the review of the reader from Malibu...a must read! Haldeman shows again (like in the &quot;Haldeman Diaries&quot;) his human side and not the rigid company man that he's always made out to be. The break-in and subsequent cover-up (or as Haldeman says &quot;containment&quot;) are explained with an insiders perspective and in what I must say, the best and most clarifying way that I've read (there's still a lot on Watergate that I haven't read though...). The only critique that I might make is I wonder how much of this was J.Dimona? S. Ambrose's &quot;Ruin and Recovery&quot; explains that Haldeman, in later years, refuted this book and it's conclusions and, if true, that would be a shame as the conclusions drawn from this book make the most sense given the advantage of over 20 years perspective. Even though this was published in 1979, many copies are still available and can be gotten for very reasonable prices ... so I'd again recommend this book highly.	2001-05-01
US	46220931	R2EQZ77YURAV9S	014023280X	454795173	Angle of Attack: Harrison Storms and the Race to the Moon	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Should be required Apollo reading...	In any detailed account of the Apollo program, it's always been assumed that North American Aviation was in over it's head and used major marketing &quot;tricks&quot; to get the Command Module and S-II stage contracts. This account gives the &quot;other side&quot; perspective and what a story it is! You get NAA's perspective on their early days, the drive to get the Apollo contracts, the roadblocks encountered in trying to &quot;spec&quot; these never before used components all culminating in the Apollo 1 fire that, un-fortunately, sacrificed the career of Harrison Storms and others.This more than any other book (with the exception of &quot;Apollo...the race to the Moon by Murray/Cox) gives the true meaning of the term &quot;Space Race&quot; and the anxiety felt by all participants. MUST be included in all essential Apollo reading...	2001-05-01
US	46220931	R1H50A2XKQNH0N	0967996309	609489414	Tracon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic read...gives a realistic picture of ATC...	I'm fascinated with ATC and, although by no means an expert, this book portrays it in very realistic detail, much better than any other book that I've been able to find (fiction or non-fiction). Like all the other reviewers, I couldn't put this book down and I would recommend that all airline fliers read this if not for the potential terror associated with an airline crash, but for a general knowledge of how an individual plane is handed off from one controller/station to another. Fast paced and easily readable (even the technical parts), I give this book a very high recommendation!	2001-05-01
US	46220931	RMSWW25JSBERW	0671534645	177829621	Apollo 13: Lost Moon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Much different than other Apollo &quot;tell-all&quot; accounts...	Most of the other first person accounts from ex-astronauts are mearly a re-hashing of their careers, but I think that Jim Lovell must be the one true &quot;story-teller&quot; amoung the former Apollo astronauts. That virtue plus his inclusion of the Misiion Control transcripts from Apollo 13 make this story stand out from the rest (it also doesn't hurt to have an amazing story to tell like the near disaster of Apollo 13!). If you're like me and think that the people in Mission Control and their roles are as important as the astronouts, than you'll love this book. Read this before any of the other astronaut stories and I'll bet that you agree that this is the best one...	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R2AE1LHHRMJ1Q1	0060164549	304333481	The Crisis Years: Kennedy and Khrushchev, 1960-1963	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Complex period in history made &quot;readable&quot;...	Michael Beschloss has done what every history writer should aspire to...make complex history telling &quot;readable&quot;. Even though this book is very long, it flows very smoothly without missing any of the details of that &quot;Crisis&quot; era. I love books on the Cuban Missile Crisis and have found very few that would be characterized above the &quot;textbook&quot; level, but this one surely meets that tough standard. This book should be included in every &quot;Crisis&quot; historians library.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R1WN7AOSMKZJQE	0788151819	281320967	Promise and Power: The Life and Times of Robert McNamara	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Shows McNamara to be more than a Vietnam Villian...	A very good book and more surprising than one would imagine...most everyone's opinion of Robert McNamara, I'm sure, is that of the cold/calculating pro-Vietnam Defense chief, when, in fact, this book proves that there's much more to him than Vietnam and also proves (in my opinion) that the policy used in the Cuban Missile Crisis (gradual escalation...a perceived success) failed miserably when implemented in Vietnam. Shapley pulls no punches when she feels that McNamara is holding back or hiding something, but is also sympathetic when discussing other areas of his life (World War II, Ford company President...etc). I give this book 4 stars as opposed to 5 stars only because of the extensive detail in every aspect of MaNamara's life that's covered (I can only stomach so much about the World Bank and all their detailed policies). Generally a fine book and should be read along with McNamara's own &quot;In Retrospect&quot; to get the true picture of a brilliant and at the same time troubled man.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R2Y8WE4IRTN6B3	0140272011	961916975	A Man on the Moon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A must-read for the Apollo buff...	Along with &quot;Apollo...the Race to the Moon&quot; by Murray/Cox, this is the essential read for the Apollo program. This one tells it from the astronauts perspective and does so richly and in much greater and readable detail than any other book previously written. Dave Scott (Apollo 15 commander) comes alive as the &quot;all-business&quot; leader of his mission...Harrison Schmitt (Apollo 17 LEM pilot) as the un-wavering geologist/astronaut, finally getting his point across about the need for a geologist on the Moon... John Young (Apollo 16 commander) and his &quot;Young-grams&quot; concerning the real or imagined engineering problems with the vehicles, They're all here presented in human terms a they've never been. It's a long book (700 plus pages) but I promise that once you start, you'll have trouble putting it down.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	RC8U39VH1UGA3	0316439533	198281232	Cold War: An Illustrated History, 1945-1991	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An excellant general read on a complex period in history...	If you're looking for general history on the 40 to 50 year period known as the &quot;Cold War&quot;, than this book along with the CNN program &quot;Cold War&quot; is for you...contrary to a few of the other reviewers, I liked this book in it's general state and I would not want to extoll my opinions concerning morality here. I'm sure that there are other books that would welcome that type of review, but this book is just for the general history reader and presented in a fabulous format! Maps, color photograhs and charts along with clear and interesting prose make this an excellant &quot;launching pad&quot; to the struggle and to other more detailed views. Highly recommended.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R2MH4WP3ISHZQR	0684826631	526094708	Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership, Nixon to Clinton	Books	3	4	9	N	N	Decent read, but could be much better...	Uneven...Most people (based on the reviews I've read) seem to like this book and it's not bad, but I found myself liking the parts that just told the story of that particular administration and wanting Gergen to continue to tell the inside story of the Presidents that he served, not an analysis of &quot;leadership&quot; from a person that doesn't really seem qualified to make that assesment. This book was interesting to me only when history was being re-counted by this administration insider with the psycho-analysis of Presidents like Nixon and Clinton better presented elsewhere (Haldeman's &quot;Ends of Power&quot; for Nixon or Stephanopolous's &quot;All too Human&quot; for Clinton). Read it for the history and not for a &quot;leadership&quot; analysis.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R2EVV67IFHD59T	0671611011	900569588	Apollo: The Race to the Moon	Books	5	11	11	N	N	THE Definitive book on the Apollo program...	This book is the true &quot;diamond-in-the-rough&quot;. With so many re-issues of material from the manned space program and specifically Apollo, it's hard to imagine that this book isn't re-issued again and again! This book (along with Andrew Chaiken's Man on the Moon and Jim Lovell's Lost Moon) is by far the definitive account of the Apollo program. Not just a re-gurgitation of the Apollo history, this story is told from a Flight Controller/Engineering perspective and gives a truer picture of what the early and subsequent days of the program were like. Here, Apollo Program Manager Joe Shea comes alive and is portrayed as an heroic/brilliant manager, not the villian of the Apollo 1 fire as in other accounts. You're down in the &quot;trench&quot; in Mission Control for not only the Apollo 11 Moon landing, but also for the lesser known Apollo 6, the ill-fated second un-manned launch of the Saturn V. It may be hard to find this book, but the effort is well worth it...one of the top 5 books that I've ever read.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R3ENN80A23ZK67	0393317900	425198418	One Hell of a Gamble: Khrushchev, Castro, and Kennedy, 1958-1964: The Secret History of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Excellent subject, disappointing account...	Disappointing...this book is one of the most extensively researched books that I've ever read, but that's only half the story. The mark of a good history book (in my opinion) is &quot;readability&quot; and this is where this book falls short. I found myself trudging through this, trying to disect the numerous new details brought out by the authors from both the American and Soviet side. When I was done, I usually had to re-read the section to get a firmer understanding and that to me is what makes up a classsroom textbook, not a good history book. There are better books on the Cold War and the Cuban Missile Crisis (Beschloss...&quot;The Crisis Years&quot;, Brugioni...&quot;Eyeball to Eyeball...even May/Zelikow &quot;the Kennedy Tapes&quot;) that I'd recommend before this.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R1MDY72KL6HCIX	0316930164	838798147	All too Human	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More than just a Clinton &quot;tell-all&quot;...	Pretty good read and coupled with Jeff Birnbaums &quot;Madhouse&quot;, gives an excellent insiders view of the early Clinton Whitehouse. This wasn't just a &quot;tell-all&quot; about Monica and other Clinton indiscretions, it told the story of a largly unkown politician thrust onto the World's stage along with his staff. It's interesting to see how they transitioned to the Presidency from the campaign and how the Office essentially wore them out (as it usually does to all newcomers). The one critique I would add (as other reviewers have stated) is that George DEFINATELY has a healthy ego and comes across &quot;whiny&quot; at times. Overall, though, a good book and definately better than other Clinton slams like Woodwards &quot;Shadow&quot;.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	RR0CW3ZOH83AJ	0674179269	64840944	The Kennedy Tapes: Inside the White House during the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	3	11	13	N	N	A definite &quot;insiders&quot; tale...	I'd really like to give this 3 1/2 stars (not quite 4 stars). This book is not for the average history reader...you will be confused and sometimes mis-led as you slog through these transcripts. The saving grace for this book is the authors' interjections at the beginning and end of each chapter to kind of summarize what just transpired (...a complete sentence is a rarity here...just what you'd expect from real time transcripts). Also, the Introduction and Conclusion sections are classic history telling and made me wish that the authors would write their own story of the &quot;Crisis&quot;. Overall, worthwile for the Cuban Missile Crisis buff, but be prepared for slow reading.	2001-04-26
US	46220931	R1I823SKWXXLN8	0684809826	236030214	ON THE BRINK: The Dramatic Behind the Scenes Saga of the Reagan Era and the Men and Women Who Won the Cold War	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Proof that Reagan had one of the best Staff/Cabinet in histo	Fantastic book! It's a real pleasure to see some of the lower level staff/cabinet people given credit for an historic 8 years. Before I read this book, I had no idea who Richard Pearl was and now I understand why the Reagan Presidency was noted for it's &quot;hawkish&quot; pro-defense policies. The best history reading is one that reads like a novel while still able to get across all pertinate points and this book does so overwhelmingly. &quot;On the Brink&quot; doesn't necessarily cover in detail all the policies and activities of the Reagan administration (like Lebanon or Iran-Contra...read Lou Cannon's &quot;Reagan&quot; for this) but those it does cover, it does so in &quot;delicious/readable&quot; prose. Highly recommended!	2001-04-25
US	46220931	R1XF3ITJ9HQY49	1879371863	930302654	The Haldeman Diaries: Inside the Nixon White House	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Exhaustive review of the Nixon Whitehouse...	As Chief-of-Staff, Bob Haldeman is to be commended for keeping such a detailed review of his White House years even during his &quot;fall from grace&quot; in 1973...That being said, the reader should be ready to be taken on an exhaustive and sometimes hard to follow review of the Nixon Administration. A previous knowledge of the Nixon Presidency and particularly Watergate is essential to get the most from this book. I found myself skipping pages as discussion after discussion about Grand Jury testimony and policy meetings on Watergate flooded the chapters towards the end of this book. I gave it 4 stars because the beginning of the book dealing with the initiation of the Nixon Presidency and the day-to-day observations (pre-Watergate) of an intelligent and observant White House executive far outweigh the &quot;burned-out&quot; and frustrated entries that close the book. The most surprising conclusion that I came away with was that Haldeman seemed to be a warm/accomodating &quot;real&quot; person, not the &quot;Nixon Nazi&quot; that he's been made out to be in other works on Watergate. Good reading	2001-04-25
