US	46222102	R3QRGKZI3DMQ96	0618619038	56193761	Waiting for Teddy Williams	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Bad timing haunts Waiting for Teddy Williams	Waiting for Teddy Williams is a baseball story that reads like a great modern myth. It involves a young protagonist and baseball phenomena Ethan Allen, a boy from northern Vermont, who lives, eats and sleeps baseball. Allen whose namesake was a leader-to-be of the 18th century Green Mountain Boys, fought against the New Yorkers for Vermont and for himself. The real Ethan Allen, proved to be an early \\"Yankee hater\\".<br /><br />Mosher is a fabulous writer and creative storyteller, producing images that are clear and mentally pleasing. Writers can often over use oddities in characters, introducing traits just to cause a stir within the reader. The characters Mosher writes are just quirky enough to be believable, interesting and loveable, remaining true to themselves and to the readers.<br /><br />In the novel, Allen is the son of Teddy Williams a baseball man, ex-convict and drifter, who appears unexpectedly into the life the young Allen. Williams, no relation to the famous Number 9, spends time with the boy, trains him and develops Ethan's baseball talents, the ones that Teddy himself could only use catching for a prison team in Texas.<br /><br />Mosher fills the book with memorable and outrageous scenes, lined with character-based humor. Allen's mother, Gypsy Lee works as an escort and a honky-tonk singer in order to put food on the table. Her work is introduced and presented as matter-of-fact, and often leads to hilarious images and situations. She is a strong, likeable character, the backbone of young Allen, and the novel flourishes in nearly every scene she is involved in.<br /><br />As strong myths go, things can be too good or too predictable to be true. Ethan's rise to the Red Sox and how the team uses him would never occur. Mosher's fictional Red Sox would never have won anything based on the season's scenario Mosher creates. This though is Mosher's point: the Red Sox will never ever win a championship. There is numerous mentions of 1918, Carlton Fisk, Bucky Dent, Bill Buckner, and the Red Sox as the loveable losers that they are. It will take a miraculous improbability for a championship to come to the City of Boston. It is rather unfortunate for the book, released the same year the team actually did win the World Series.<br /><br />There are also a few minor factual inaccuracies found (i.e. World Series Game Seven would never be a day game), but generally these will be missed by most, except the scholars of the game.  Despite this, the book is well written and interesting.  It is a well-struck work that curves just foul. It is a one-run heartbreaking loss that can still be appreciated by the lovers of the game as well as the lovers of fine writing.<br /><br />Tim Gager/ Ibbetson Update/Sept 2005.<br /><br />*Tim Gager is the cofounder of \\"the Somerville News Writers Festival\\" [...]ox as the loveable losers that they are. It will take a miraculous improbability for a championship to come to the City of Boston. It is rather unfortunate for the book, released the same year the team actually did win the World Series.    There are also a few minor factual inaccuracies found (i.e. World Series Game Seven would never be a day game), but generally these will be missed by most, except the scholars of the game.   Despite this, the book is well written and interesting.  It is a well-struck work that curves just foul. It is a one-run heartbreaking loss that can still be appreciated by the lovers of the game as well as the lovers of fine writing.    Tim Gager/ Ibbetson Update/Sept 2005.    *Tim Gager is the cofounder of \\"the Somerville News Writers Festival\\" [...]	2005-09-07
US	46222102	R2Q6FH1OFA5U60	0316341029	983839104	A Drinking Life: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Just...."A Life"	Pete Hamill has lived a very interesting life. We lead many lifes. He was the artist dreamer in rough and tumble Brooklyn as well as being able to be rough and tumble. He is dettached, yet sentimental. He hangs with the boys, grows up to stay loyal to his neighborhood and yet runs in celebrity circles. His memoir is \\"A Life\\".  It is about drinking, but drinking is secondary to the story. What you get is not the destruction that drink causes but more of a passive tone regarding his heavy drinking. What permeates, into the reader is, mostly that drinking in Hamill's life created huge dysfunction in his family life and in his relationships.<br /><br />What I found out to be bothersome was that I became very involved in the book and felt it was interesting enough for 100-150 more pages. The book is very detail oriented,  from his very detailed young life to the late sixties and then it rapidly goes through his adult life. Hamill basically runs in famous circles later in his life, yet the reader doesn't get to know exactly how he found himself in those circles. On the positive side of this, he doesn't name drop or fall all over himself or pile gossipy crap on any of them.<br /><br />His book points out his interesting life, his growth as a man, his successes and his adventures. I became involved in \\"A Drinking Life\\", in such a way, that I missed his life when the book was finished.	2005-04-18
US	46222102	R1057Y1AVQPVM4	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	3	1	1	N	N	pages of good writing about uncomfortable subjects	Chuck Palahniuk is a great writer, but I found Choke to be an \\"uncomfortable\\" read from beginning to end.  In Choke almost every character is physically or mentally disturbed but described carefully and perfectly.  The protagonist is a sex addict, written about in such detail that you many never want to have sex again. Based on his upbringing you understand why he is the way he is.  YOu understand too much.  His best friend is prob. the most disgusting character ever written about (the protagonist is runner-up).  Their  mucus, filth, smell, dirt, blocked bowels, release of blocked bowels, are described in full glory.<br /><br />The plot of the book involves the main character faking his death by choking in various restaurants around town.  The people that save him, pity him and want to help later by sending him checks to subsidize him.  I had a problem with this. I would think that someone doing the saving would be the one getting paid back, not the other way around.<br /><br />The ending of the book has a decent twist, but I was on the fence whether it was interesting or convenient for the author.<br /><br />The book as stated before was very well written, but not for me at this time.  I can understand the range of ratings Choke has thus far received.	2005-02-28
US	46222102	R1D2LEAZ5V0806	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Very artistic display.....shows by example	The quality of the graphics are very satisfying to the senses. It is a colorful delight of a book. It shows what potential that books, especially test books can be. For me, it's a great coffee table book. I can see it also appealing to people interested in the craft of book production.<br /><br />What comes through is how much the author is consumned by books, their history and their future. Goodbye Gutenberg is a book of interactive philosophy.<br /><br />This said, I didn't quite know what to do with this book except to admire it, which I did. This book has substance and appeal. All it needs is a target audience.	2005-01-05
US	46222102	R2DGKLM73JVEMS	1594533016	659407745	Why the Clintons Belong in Prison	Books	2	24	36	N	N	lot's of outside quotes, but plenty of needs	Melrose Larry Green's book is full of quotes.  Quotes and information used to back up points are good things.  He appears to have researched by surfing the Internet, watching television and legally incorporating the opinions of others.  This is all fine and acceptable.<br /><br />The problem with \\"Why the Clintons Belong in Prison\\" is when the author (cut and paste expert) attempts his own narrative, which is sporadic, jumpy and poorly edited.  His points are not linear, and show the author's attention deficit.  With a proper literary team, this book could have been something of note but unfortunately it feels like a \\"hit and run\\" report and reads like a one-sided sensationalized talk radio program.	2004-11-01
US	46222102	R31LF5NXJY79KV	0375725164	988655532	Bluesman: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	What it didn't say, said a lot	Andre Dubus III, writes in a way that is so pointed, yet understated that when I had finished the book, I could appreciate the complete greatness of it.  Bluesman is set in 1967 and as any American historian knows, we were, as a country was headed into turmoil.  Dubus III takes the time period and manages to capture the innocense of small town values as America was embracing the war in Vietnam and the sexual freedom (awakenings) in America.  This view of these issues contrasts the way America looks back at these very same issues, and Dubus captures the way it was, rather than the we choose to remember it.<br /><br />I also found Dubus III was able to spin a tremendous plot in a well written, sensitive way.  There were strong ties between a father and a son, a first love involving the son and a girl from high school, as well as how the loss of a spouse effects people and the decisions they make.  It certainly is a picture that Norman Rockwell would paint, in a time that Rockwell's work was being displaced as the accepted images of America.	2004-10-23
US	46222102	R3CXD41U470OKW	0060007788	469204683	Finding Fish: A Memoir	Books	4	3	3	N	N	From a rugged beginning........a memoir of human development	One must admire Antwone Fisher.  When reading this book, the narrative tone is one of a self-focused strong man, who overcame his demons.  You learn of his rough upbringing in a foster home with parents who showed love (you must look hard for this, as did Mr. Fisher) in ways that most cannot imagine.  These sections are the most interesting in the book--if only for the true real-life horror of them.  The reader sees what young Antwone goes through and what happens to friends and co-foster siblings along the way....AND what happens to Antwone--how he survived.  The personal demons and pain that Mr. Fisher overcame are not necessarily overt (nor is it our business).  He hints at them but tells us how he gets through it with internal strength.  He shows us more of what he'd been through....basically dysfunction (no Christmas gifts, no celebrations, no individuality in his foster home, no joy ) His methods of compensation include art, writing, music, the navy, therapy (not a main focus, but an important one) and working through relationships with the aliens in his world known as human beings.  All of these elements are used in relation to the shy person who had to stay in a shell with a teflon interior in order to overcome his difficult background and experiences.  Bravo to the author and the emotions that it unveiled.	2004-10-04
US	46222102	R35JI1UYDDSAMZ	1565124219	946647306	Candyfreak: A Journey through the Chocolate Underbelly of America	Books	5	3	5	N	N	tastes great.........literally filling	Some may say that this is a flawed book, without range, without substance. Yes, Steve Almond loves chocolate and it has helped him get over some stressful times. Ahhhhhh, ho-hum! Some may say this, but I am not some of the sum.<br /><br /> My opinion is that the man loves chocolate. He writes about it as if it is the love of his life. In this book, he lives for it, adores it, cherishes it. Candy is Steve's great love in so many ways. He describes how certain candy feels, tastes, smells, sounds and looks like. He get it all, all five senses stimulated by his obsession but told in a well written interesting way. Steve Almond remembers the candy from his youth and what it meant to him. The opening chapters are full of very reminiscing thoughts of how/why candy has shaped his life. As the book moves on you get Steve Almond's report on various tours he took through some very obscure candy factories across the country. These are told the way a good newspaper reporter would, until Steve throws in a really great one-liner describing the setting or the owner. He even confesses that he grabbed some goodie while no one was looking during a few of these tours. I have recommended this book time and time again--it is just so much fun to read!<br /><br /> Note: to those looking for sexual trysts about candy and &quot;pool water&quot; stories you loved from My Life in Heavy Metal.....this book is a completely different animal.	2004-07-22
US	46222102	ROQWQV7V3A6FH	0312315716	860060808	Little Children: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Anticipated Greatness	Based on it's place on several best seller lists and very postive reviews I expected greatness.  Instead, I found goodness within the pages of Little Children.  That said, I still plowed through this book in two days, totally involved with the characters and plot.<br />Perrotta is known as a great satirist but he picked some challenging material to satire.  He runs through daily life of neighborhood moms, dads and their children with comic abandon.  Their dynamics and petty jealous reactions drives the first section of the book at a glorious clip.  Then you get more involved in the two main characters, Todd (a protrastinating daytime provider who is trying to pass his bar exam, but would rather watch skateboarders at the library or play adult testoterone tackle football) and Sarah, a woman dissatisfied with her role as mother and wife.  The two of them start off flirting and race into a full fledged affair.<br />The story has several dark clouds...some which even Perrotta cannot satirize. The town's father's and mothers attempt to battle Ronnie, a released child molester, lives close to the town pool and playground.  Larry, an ex-cop and  football buddy of Todd's uses full vigilence to force matters into his own hands.  When things don't work he becames assaultive to Ronnie and Ronnie's mother, without  successfully running Ronnie out of town.  The other dark areas Perrotta presents is the institution of marriage.  In Little Children, no couple is happy or healthy and there is no solution to fix this except leaving, having affairs or becoming involved in internet perversion.  (The entire Slutty Kay section was hilarious).  In fact, almost every character appears to be as uncomfortable in thier roles as Ronnie does in his own \\"house arrest\\".<br />Perrotta ties his satirical hands behind his back and is still able to pull a literary Houdini.  The book's prose is well-written, crisp and clean, without being self-indulgent.  It's a breezy read into some heavy subject matter, not burdening the reader with its verbiage.  I few wrong turns and you'd have either be overly sappy in the romance area with Todd and Sarah or a vehicle Stallone might want to star in.  Thankfully you get neither.t matter, not burdening the reader with its verbiage.  I few wrong turns and you'd have either be overly sappy in the romance area with Todd and Sarah or a vehicle Stallone might want to star in.  Thankfully you get neither.	2004-04-26
US	46222102	R161EBUR09M9Y2	0743243749	401901134	Catch As Catch Can: The Collected Stories and Other Writings	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very Interesting Reading	As a fan or Mr. Heller's books (especially Catch-22) I found his early writing very interesting.  The short stories in this book vary from excellant to very under developed.  Important to note that when he was an undergraduate, some of these stories where accepted by The New Yorker and Atlantic Monthly.  Today, if a student reached those lofty heights they would be in very very rare company.<br />Early in the book the short stories are more serious less humorous than you would expect from Heller.  They are more along the line of what you would find when reading Dubus or Carver. As you progress there are stories written involving Catch-22 characters (Nately, Yossarian) that take place after the war, after Catch-22.<br />The book then moves to pieces written during the early 1990's at he time of George H. Bush's administration.  These pieces are biting satires in regards to our former president and his political stands.<br />One will also find within the pages, a re-printed lecture Heller gave regarding Catch-22.<br />As you can see, the book was constructive post-mortem and has the feel of work randomly inserted.  It's difficult to get into the flow for a long literary sitting.  For example, once I became involved and settled in his short work, the book took me to other well-written places, but places I was not ready for.	2004-03-19
US	46222102	R3PYGC89RT6YEG	0812968875	534240151	Poetry 180: A Turning Back to Poetry	Books	5	36	36	N	N	A Totally Enjoyable Read	In the introduction, Billy Collins while on a reading tour, stops off at a high school for their Poetry Day.  There he is given a copy of the school paper in which a student had written an article about modern poetry.  To paraphrase:  &quot;Whenever I read modern poetry, I feel like my brother has his foot on my neck at the bottom of a pool&quot;  According to the intro., this book would like to make reading poetry more &quot;reader friendly&quot;.  Whether the story is true or not, Collins succeeds in his goal<br />America's High Poet, Collins, handpicked these selections from such modern masters as Rimbauld, Simic, Salter, Olds, Luz and Levine.  Also catching my eye is a superbly sentimental piece entitled &quot;Dead Dog&quot; by John Updike.  Collins, often chided and applauded for his simple, open poetry picks his selection along the same vein.  This makes Poetry 180 a delightful breeze, a book that keeps your attention and a superbly well rounded work.  As a reader I was not left gasping for air, but instead searching for more complete works by some of these fine writers.	2004-02-17
US	46222102	RVD6I600OSVG1	0743245237	188911420	The Rabbit Factory: A Novel	Books	2	0	10	N	N	too much of bad things can't be good	Usually I am able to fly through books by Larry Brown.  I've typically enjoyed the quirkiness of his characters, especially in the short story form.<br />Rabbit Factory was basically filled with less than endearing individuals, (hookers, mobsters, alcoholics, men with penile dysfunction) which in my opinion was difficult to deal with.  In his other novels there had been some characters that created balance (i.e. Fay which had the police officer to offset her dysfunction)  After months of wanting to finish this novel, I finally, with great disappointment, put it down for possible future reading.	2004-02-11
US	46222102	R1W5BKC4UU213R	0974548006	966775088	Soccer Dreams: My True Adventure Following the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team, as a Fan and 12-Year Old Junior Reporter for the St. Petersburg ... History-Making 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup!	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Book with impressive message	This book, written by a twelve-year old journalist is an example of someone following their dreams.  The nuts and bolts of the book is about young Leah Lauber working for the St. Petersburg Times, covering the 1999 Women's World Cup Soccer Team.  She interviewes team members, writes five features for the newspaper and then wins an all-expenses trip to the Championship match in Los Angeles.  There are also various trials and tribulations such as travel nightmares while trying to get to certain matches that keeps the book real.  The matches and Leah's journey are enough meat to fill this colorful picture laden book.<br />Now the message (because books have a message):  What I got out of this book is a message for children to follow their dreams--not just the dreams of a soccer championship, but the dreams of hard work paying off.  Leah and her family are tremendous examples and role models on how to get things done and how to attain what is often viewed as unattainable.  How many people reading this would like to interview  Mia Hamm or for that matter Roger Clemens, Keith Richards, or Stephen King.  Leah manages to interview her heroes and in doing so becomes a hero, someone that can be admired for what SHE has accomplished as a reporter.<br />This book is written so it can be appreciated by children 8-mid teens.  It is tight, well written and does not pretend to be anything but what it is, a journalistic and personal endevour by the author.<br />Another interesting note is that the author's father e-mailed me so that I could write a review for Soccer Dreams at Amazon.  This is another example of aggressive promotional, do not sit on your hands and wait for things to happen, tactics.  It was very impressive to me and goes to show that the apple does not fall too far from the tree.	2004-01-20
US	46222102	R2CDVHVE6X0H11	0743469836	428273583	Liner Notes	Books	1	1	1	N	N	I didn't get any of the relationships	OK, the potential of this book was huge.  A cross country trip by a daughter with her cancer survivor mother.  On the trip, They listen to the daughter's historic \\"mix\\" tapes which tell the story of the daughter's life and her relationships through the music.<br />But ho-hum.  The story of all her relationships are toothless.  The main character Laney seems to meet them based on looks not substance and the book ends up in situations like, \\"one week later\\" they were still together having breakfast or shopping.  It's like getting a mix tape and finding bad songs on it.  Typically the relationship has no build up and they always just kind of dissolve.  Like a person who is always changing their relationships, you don't want to give her a guest on a wedding invitation because she will not be with the person two weeks later.<br />Generally, Laney meets guys, falls for them immediately and then either she goes away or they go away.  It's all very non-dramatic.  The scenes are written almost in a mono-tone.<br />The far better story line is the mother being sick throughout Laney's college years.  Mostly though, it is described by Laney as being worried or sad about it.  I guess we are supposed to connect that with her inability to form relationships because of her inability to adequately feel and care for her sick mother during this time.  Still Laney seems to become involved so easily you don't get attatched to the characters, because it's often just words on paper without Laney's feelings expressed.<br />The story concludes with Laney re-connecting with her first love, she met as a camp worker, which the \\"love\\", in the story, only lasted two days.  Still she seems to somehow obsesses about him through some other \\"important\\" relationships in her life.  I didn't catch the connection of why he seemed so important.  This guy caused Laney to break with her best friend over a stolen mix tape he had mad for her.  Years later, the two friend get over it years and attend a wedding together. Campboy is there!  The friend sees him wants to tell Laney, but some dance breaks out at the wedding and the friend FORGETS to tell her that he is even there.  This friend even knows how much Laney has obsessed over this guy for years.  It's such a big deal YET it's forgotten by the friend at the wedding!  Even after the friend doesn't bring it up....their cell conversation is disconnected or something else equally impossible.  I was dissappointed by this book's focus.edding together. Campboy is there!  The friend sees him wants to tell Laney, but some dance breaks out at the wedding and the friend FORGETS to tell her that he is even there.  This friend even knows how much Laney has obsessed over this guy for years.  It's such a big deal YET it's forgotten by the friend at the wedding!  Even after the friend doesn't bring it up....their cell conversation is disconnected or something else equally impossible.  I was dissappointed by this book's focus.	2003-11-15
US	46222102	R4RJFYE81ZOC2	0743464877	976503721	Eliot's Banana	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Chick lit that pushed my buttons.....and I'm a man	I started out reading this thinking, oh boy, I'm not going to like this, but since it was sent to me I read it out of \\"duty\\".  I'm a good gift receiver.  Even so, at this point, I thought the prose was very poetic, and very decent poetry at that.<br />I find it to be my \\"duty\\" to gives this work an honest assessment.  Half-way through the book, I was cruising, enjoying all aspects of it.  The book was getting in my head and pushing my buttons.  I was starting to think that, my God,  this is a well written, smart and very sexy book.  Swain's subtle scenes crafted just enough to leave the reader edgy and chomping at the bit.<br />Eliot's Banana covers the older man, younger woman angle.  As an older man, I'd like to salute Heather Swain for her insight in giving all of us old characters hope.  The older man is also a writer of past sci-fi fame.  Another realistic portrayal of a writer utilized by the book's<br />author.<br />Eliot's Banana also covers the live-in boyfriend angle very well.  Is it trouble in paradise for the young couple---well for one, paradise is just and ideal.  Protaganist Junie does very well in relating her ambivalence toward her live-in, a drummer, Leon, yet still relating that their relationship is still based on love.<br />Swain also gives us the band slacker angle.  Leon is the drummer of an up and coming (in the real world) and at the same time declining (band members have issues with each other) band Mr. Whipple.  These scenes are hilarious and realistic.<br />Still, all the above is just the smoke that sells the BBQ.  The meat that holds all these subplots together is the lose of Junie's young brother, which occured years earlier and also influences every aspect of Swain's Junie.<br />The best part is---as I started to throughly enjoy this book is that I cared how Junie's inner conflicts were going to get resolved.  I didn't think I had that in me, but I'll admit to you all that even at first, through kicking and screaming, I enjoyed Eliot's Banana.  Feel free to take me outside and shoot me boys but, this is  a fine debut.  An enthusiastic 5 stars!njoyed Eliot's Banana.  Feel free to take me outside and shoot me boys but, this is  a fine debut.  An enthusiastic 5 stars!	2003-10-04
US	46222102	R2H74IURL9I8X2	0595212336	446123198	Carl versus the Men from Mars: Bombast, drivel, odds and ends	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Read this man's work	After enjoying the novel Small Town Punk, I'm working through all of Sheppard's books. I finished Bad Men Driving, a book of short fiction, which I found to repeat many themes and even actual tales from his novel.  Moving on to Carl versus the Men from Mars, I found the work fresh and quite enjoyable.  The stories follow Carl through various points in his life: Carl the child, Carl in high school, Carl the line cook, and Carl in the military.  The stories pull from Sheppard's themes of the nervous loner battling through the world using cynical humor and mental toughness.  Situations are much different than Sheppard's other work and this well written collection will keep your attention.  You will be disappointed when each story ends, because you will want them to continue, discover what happens next, and dive further into the character's inner most make-up.	2003-08-29
US	46222102	RMNG8Z6C47C5M	0970911718	578663064	Foul Ball	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Repetition dragged it down	Bouton's wit and sarcasm makes this book.  It's the same humor as he has used in all his books.  What also works is the cast of unbelievable beurocrats that would do anything to build a new ballpark using tax dollars.  These cast of characters are too out of touch to be true, but they are true.  Bouton and his friend fight a noble battle to own a team and refurbish a historic old stadium.  The plan is solid, perhaps perfect but it never gets backed.  Seems like everyone is connected for the new stadium project.  (and they are).  There is something smelling pretty bad in Pittsfield and it is flowing through the ground water.  Ask General Electric.  How does it relate to a historic old park.....you can find out in Foul Ball.  It would make a hell of a movie.<br />What I didn't like.....During the reading we get the Bouton groups proposal told to us over and over again....taste of the Berkshires food court...the non-luxury boxes....the money put in.  It is used to rebutt against every argument the new stadium mob puts up in the book.  I thought that there had to be a way for the author to NOT repeat his proposal to us over one hundred times.<br />Recommendation:  Buy this book!  It's a lesson in modern politics surrounding sports and local townships.  A good lesson to be learned.  Also buy it because Bouton had the Four Balls to put it out himself after the publisher backed out at the last minute.  Why?  General Electric funded the publisher.  Enough said.	2003-08-05
US	46222102	R3K2N4ESD6EAT	0595224946	328639013	Small Town Punk: a novel	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	I thought about things when reading this	First of all, I read this book in two days, laughing out loud in various coffee shops, while I should have been at work.  I guess the fact that I was blowing off work instantly meant that I was meant to relate to Buzz, the main character.  Sheppard's writing is cynical and hilarious, giving the reader many classic lines that you end up wondering where they came from.  For example, \\"This barber had a pinched-up face, like someone had taped a dog turd under his nose 20 years ago and he'd never removed it, except to maybe freshen it with a new dog turd.\\" or about Tolkien, \\"He writes ponderous escapist bulls**t that bears no resemblance of real life.  Evil is too evil to be actually evil.  And good is impossibly good.  And it's written like a high school history textbook, so that the d**ks that read it can pat themselves on the back for being smart.\\"  It's the sort of real life humor written in a real life way that I enjoy.  (Not all the humor is scatological, this is just an example of how lines explode out of nowhere).  Also Sheppard's use of dialog is realistic and amazing.  It is as if you are at the Pizza Hut, where the characters work (or in their car), listening, laughing, and cracking open a beer with them.  The character's are entertaining screw ups, especially Buzz's friends, yet Buzz's character, even though a screw up, is saved by the sweet relationship he has with his sister.<br />Now the thoughts...<br /> I thought of Holden Caulfield when reading this.  I thought of Bright Lights, Big City (the book) while reading this.  I thought of my college and High School days while reading this.  I thought of Jesus' Son (the book or movie) while reading this.  I thought of Hunter S. Thompson while reading this.  I thought that this book would make a tremendous movie (please don't cast Matt Damon or Leonardo D.).  I thought of a lot of people that would enjoy this book a lot and that I could turn people onto an author that they'd prob. never heard of.  I DO give Small Town Punk a strong recommendation, especially for slackers, 80's punks, clubbers etc.<br />Important to note:  This is not a book about PUNK ROCK.  The strength of the book is the relationships between friends and their situations, as well as family relations and dysfunction.l Town Punk a strong recommendation, especially for slackers, 80's punks, clubbers etc.<br />Important to note:  This is not a book about PUNK ROCK.  The strength of the book is the relationships between friends and their situations, as well as family relations and dysfunction.	2003-07-03
US	46222102	R2VXRNMR7UV6V	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Just an interesting book on all accounts	In the late 1960's society was at complete unrest.  War was occurring in Vietnam, leaders were being shot, and families were drifting apart.  This was the time that Kurt Vonnegut wrote the novel Slaughterhouse-Five.  In the beginning of the novel he places himself as the main point of view.  He sets up the story with his own struggles of isolation.  He calls long lost friends drinks and smokes.  It is here where he visits an old friend and war veteran, whose wife worries that he will glorify the war by writing about it.  By mentioning this I feel that Vonnegut is justifying the novel's randomness, moving it away from a war novel to the multi-set version that it became.  The fact that Vonnegut himself is struggling, sets us up to the struggles that Billy Pilgrim will face while setting us up to the character himself being seen as the eyes and ears of the author.<br />Billy Pilgrim is a very interesting character.  In the novel he experiences the war, personal abuse, disability, mental illness and a lack of self-worth.  As ironic as that sounds, he is the center of the novel, the piece that holds it together.  Billy represents not just the negatives of war, but of the overall problems of the human condition.  The fact that Billy is  a victim and what he represents creates a cynical view of how the author views the world at the time.<br />Some may view Pilgrim strictly as a weak character.  The fact that he is taken advantage of time and time again is difficult to deal with.  I often wondered why he was so pathetic and what the point of that was.  In researching the author for this paper, Vonnegut himself was weak in many ways.  This is why the character of Billy Pilgrim works in this novel.  Kurt Vonnegut needed to be able to make a statement from the core of society, which was weak at the time.  The fact that Pilgrim goes into the future and becomes a celebrity equates his own writing success and what it really means to him versus how he feels about himself.  At one point in the novel he even mentions that writing is like advertising, you need to tell the truth or you get into trouble.<br />It is no accident that by the end of the novel, Billy Pilgrim seldom seems to know who, where and why he is.  The author notes this in the last chapter set in 1967.  It is the year before the assassinations of Robert F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King occur.  These problems in our society and Pilgrim's cluelessness are used to make a point.  The point that he is trying to make is that Pilgrim is presented as sick and listless but there are good reasons that this is occurring.<br />Still, why is this important to have him as a weakling?  I also feel that he is depicting mental illness as something caused by society itself and it is these mentally ill that create a major part of how the world is run.  Pilgrim at many times in the book is abused so badly you understand why he has become the weak person that he is during many moments of the book.  You understand why he is the weakling or the victim.  Tie that in with the previous points you realize that is us, all of society that is victimized.  It also runs into who is running the world.  In 1976, Pilgrim becomes a hero of society, yet you wonder how that can occur.  You know him as very un-heroic, yet Vonnegut places him in that role as if to say, it is the nuts that are running the asylum.  The point being that some of the same can be said about the leaders of the world during the time this book was written.<br />If the book is to be viewed basically, I could say that Vonnegut is telling us that war is bad.  In fact, the raid of Dresden is a large point regarding the unrest of society.  He could have stayed with this point throughout the entire novel.  It would have been the easy way to make a basic point.  The fact that he moves away from this to Billy in the present and later in the future, what the author is trying to say is that society needs to be fixed not just now, but later, before wars and cruelty cease to exist.<br />As mentioned early, the book is often criticized for being too random in its structure.  It was viewed as a fault.  I believe that randomness was used to make a point and is a strength rather than a weakness.  Vonnegut does this by the pace and quick changes in setting and plot.  The violence and cruelty is another way that he is reaching out to what is going on in the world.  Vonnegut frames this by placing himself in the beginning and end of the novel, thus introducing where he is at in 1969, as well as bringing the novel to a logical conclusion.<br />In conclusion, Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. uses many layers and levels of understanding of society to make his point.  What was happening while his book was being written adds to the structure and meaning of the novel itself.  The novel is not jumpy or all over the road, but rather a well thought out piece using a main character to define the place society was at that time.wars and cruelty cease to exist.<br />As mentioned early, the book is often criticized for being too random in its structure.  It was viewed as a fault.  I believe that randomness was used to make a point and is a strength rather than a weakness.  Vonnegut does this by the pace and quick changes in setting and plot.  The violence and cruelty is another way that he is reaching out to what is going on in the world.  Vonnegut frames this by placing himself in the beginning and end of the novel, thus introducing where he is at in 1969, as well as bringing the novel to a logical conclusion.<br />In conclusion, Slaughterhouse Five by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. uses many layers and levels of understanding of society to make his point.  What was happening while his book was being written adds to the structure and meaning of the novel itself.  The novel is not jumpy or all over the road, but rather a well thought out piece using a main character to define the place society was at that time.	2003-06-04
US	46222102	R6N5AK5FSPJPT	0595257763	57113833	Free Chairs	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A study of Human Nature	This book is a tightly edited, well-written book from the heart and mind of John Sheier.  John's essays and shorts, whether fictional or not, show many faces of human nature.  In this thoroughly enjoyable book you will read about human relations, the questioning of people and their places in life, self-doubt, humor, jubilation etc.  My favorite story has to do with a recently divorced man who takes up with a woman and her two daughters.  The man develops feelings for all of them, but when the relationship ends he has to face the grieving of separation from all of them.  He wonders what the girls are doing and what he would be/mean to them if things had worked out.  It's a heartbreaking account of an experience that many can relate to in this age of divorce and separation.  Sheier also writes some very short and sweet pieces that are less than three pages.  This is great for those who don't have much time to read!  In one of these quickies Sheier writes about bailing out the sister of his wife, getting her on her feet financially, only to have her blow her modest savings on a weekend Casino trip.  Sheier takes the flushing money down the toilet motif in a literal way as he images the casino restrooms offering pay to flush services as the clients cheer it all on.<br />Sheier is someone you can discover as a great new author!  I recommend this item.	2003-05-27
US	46222102	R22CVB051AQO5V	0679762108	709978746	The Sportswriter: Bascombe Trilogy (1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Don't skip because you don't like "Sports books"	This is an example of a book's title misrepresenting the product.  When I told people I was reading this, many unfamiliar to the author said that they didn't like sports books.  This is not a sports book.  It's a book based on human emotion, isolation, and need.  The main character, written in the first person narrative just so happens to hold down that job.  The book is heavy on the narrative end with very sparse dialog.  By doing this the author creates a psychological work where a broken marriage, deceased son, writer's issues are all examined.  This book was so well written that I admired many of the passages and re-read them directly after reading them the first time.  This is a very good read for all, men, women, sports fans and fans of Martha Stewart.	2003-05-11
US	46222102	R2L1JSLILZIVUR	0679737138	631946426	Jernigan	Books	4	7	9	N	N	When Life gets Rough, read this book	This book is the darkest painting of suburbia I've read in awhile.  If your life stinks, replace it with Jernigan's.  Here's what you get----alcoholism, self-abuse, teenage son on drugs, shacking with mother of teenage son's girlfriend, death of wife, death of rabbits for food, loss of job, plus did I mention drinking large quanities of gin.  Now why does this character continue to shot himself in the foot (or in his case hand)?  Seems like he just doesn't give two hoots.  What makes the book work though, is Jernigan's wisecracking nature, basically condescending everything, as his life drops away by his own powers.  This is brought on by the tight, descriptive naratives by David Gates, Jernigan's creator.<br />Not that Jernigan is alone in his life of horror.  There's a cast of characters that are barely functioning.  Of course, Jernigan cannot stand them.  He's going to do things his way and it's a way so unimaginable yet possible, it leaves you riveted.	2003-02-12
US	46222102	R3FXP5VB7D17N0	1565121252	301792856	Facing the Music (Front Porch Paperbacks)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	This debut indicated he was going far.	He also indicates he likes women, beer and dogs.  In this wonderful collection of short fiction, Larry Brown takes you cruising to smokey bars searching for juicy women.  He takes you back home where undesired wives are bitter at their non-willing partners.  He takes you to the edge of a horrible accident caused by a child, vigilant at getting back at the driver for killing his dog.  He also takes you to the backroads and side streets of Mississippi, where life is thick, humid and the people are thirsty for something to happen.	2003-02-03
US	46222102	R1DD2JNNJ0SFZT	0452269083	190182168	The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner (Contemporary Fiction, Plume)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Classically Done	A friend bought this book for me, and told me that it was one of her all time favorites.  What a great gift because this book rocks.  The stories found in this collection are striking and angry.  Originally published in 1959, Mr. Sillitoe gives his protaganists a gritty disregard for rules and regulations.  The title story is the best known of the lot, but the rest of the book introduces you to the poverty of the English working class, slugging it out for every penny, every crown.  Many of the characters rob and steal their way to their next meal.  Others will not sell themselves out to the law or the man.  This for example is found in the story, Noah's Arc, where the two youth sneak their way onto a carnaval ride, only to get caught, and then manage to escape. A recurring theme is one where the characters are book owners or book readers.  Sillitoe makes the point of the deepness of reading.  He also makes the point that reading can be a solitary, non-social event. Arguments occur, newspapers are burned, bookcases are judged---bueno!  As a person that likes realistic fiction, bordering on the ugly, struggling working class, I can say that this is a wonderful and currently underated selection.	2003-02-03
US	46222102	RRS6I2CHOT738	0802116302	467185925	My Life in Heavy Metal: Stories	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Highly recommended book, but just ok	The words used by reviewers and readers were stunning, dynamic, monumental, remarkable debut......I found the book to be good, but NOT as great as other short story authors debuts.  I was expecting something much better, especially after reviews from when he was here last spring.  For a book that was supposed to be very erotic, I found the sex in it very selfish.  I also found the men, shallow, gasping for love, gasping for intimacy, but very underdeveloped.  Psychologically I wanted to know why each character lost the girl in the end.  This is probabally the issue of the author, but I'd rather dive into the characters than the problems the author has with relationships.<br />The strength of this book is the dialog and poetic prose, which were very very strong----actually delightful.  The author should beef up his characters just a bit to give them real individualism, and then this book would be stunning, etc.	2003-01-13
US	46222102	R1BAWFF1HTATQL	0743422961	187539243	The Miss America Family	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Better than Girl Talk!	I found myself comparing this novel to the works of two of my  favorite authors.  The book is very well written and the scenes and situations that Ms. Baggott shows us could have been introduced to us by John Irving or Joseph Heller.  The story itself, reminded me of the conflicted facade of Norman Rockwell's paintings.  In his art, he gives us scenes from Main Street USA, that are no longer representitive our country today.<br />To do this Ms. Baggott presents us a dysfunctional woman named Pixie Kitchey, from a sad/tragic upbringing, trying to win her way, (in beauty pagents), toward the great American or shall I say, The Miss America Family.  Pixie's goal is to build an all-american life and all-american family.  A family with perfect smiles, perfect picket fences and perfect names.  One-hundred percent white bread normal in contrast to her own upbringing.  Of course, events happen, and the realization that you can't change people has to occur in  Pixie's  mind in order for her to come to the conclusion of what normalcy truly is.<br />The story is told from two points of view.  One is from the perspective of the ex-beauty queen (Pixie) and the other is from the perspective of her awkward teenage son.  Ms. Baggott is able to successfully speak in the son's voice and the reader is treated to her version of  Boy Talk.  The son, Ezra, gets to experience the great american crush/rejection that all boys go through.  First love, first sexual experience and first separation from love is the most difficult.  Ezra also gives the reader a nice perspective from the outside, looking into his mother's life.<br />Why is Miss America Family better than Girl Talk?  I loved Girl Talk....I gave it four stars here at Amazon.  I found myself liking Miss America Family even more.  The plot successfully twists and turns, keeping the reading interested in both narratives as well as all story lines.  I am not a fan of the quirky character or quirky tale which authors often use to spice a book up.  In this novel the characters are quirky, but REAL, and the situations within are believably interesting and far-out, often sad and hysterical.  I totally enjoyed this book.pice a book up.  In this novel the characters are quirky, but REAL, and the situations within are believably interesting and far-out, often sad and hysterical.  I totally enjoyed this book.	2002-11-05
US	46222102	RUIZZNJ2S0GY2	080213422X	640122618	The Painted Bird	Books	5	1	8	N	N	Dare to be Different, but not for the weak stomach	What makes this book even more creepy is the foward which indicates that some of the graphic fiction in the book is based on the author's real life.  Kosinski experienced some of these savage torments as a boy following WWII.  The book is broad enough to not just capture the ugliness of war and hatred, but the true meaning of being different, being discriminated against and being alienated in the worst way because of the color of your skin (hair, and eyes).  The happy moments experienced in the book are basic and essential pieces of everyday life that we all take for granted.  Historically, based on Jerzy Kosinsky's own life, the events of his own childhood couldn't be overcome--dying with his own demons banging on the door.	2002-10-22
US	46222102	R21OMXGZPQH5VI	1891620754	963615499	Gracefully Insane: The Rise and Fall of America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	5	9	9	N	N	History of the Most Famous Mental Institution---well Bellvue	Alex Beam is a reporter/columnist for the Boston Globe.  In this remarkable book he recounts the history of McLean's Hospital in Belmont, which covers history of treatments, grounds, theory and perceptions.  McLean's is/was an incredible place.  In it's hayday its exterrior was set up like a country club, pools, tennis courts, while the treatment du jour was brain surgery (lobotomy) and electric shock therapy.  It explores the \\"we're the experts and you're not\\" mentallity of psychiatrists which still occurs.  It also recalls how it was the Betty Ford of mental health in-patient centers.  The hospital served people such as James Taylor, Sylvia Plath, and Susanna Kaysen.  Although mentioned in a chapter, the focus of this book is not just this.  Interesting to know that poetry groups and groups for the arts are still occurring on-site.<br />This book is a complete account of the exterrior and interrior workings of McLeans.  Even today, if you walk the grounds, it feels like you're walking a college campus.  The place is green, and beautiful.  Beam's words and wit, his historic sense, his story telling, and his focus on detail is all encompassing.  This book is wonderful and fascinating.	2002-10-18
US	46222102	R21GH19WEG4OAU	0020306652	778679666	Ball Four: Twentieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Baseball Memoir	What can I say about this book?  I used to read it every summer.  I read it by date (June 9, I read June 9 entry) tracked the stats etc.  I first read this book in eighth grade.  It didn't shatter the myth of Mickey Mantle, other ballplayers or the state of the sacred game, in general.  I was a METS FAN anyway.  What it did do is make light that ballplayers aren't unconditional heroes.  They are human beings and rather tame compared to some of today's criminals. (I mean athletes).  First time through I laughed at loud and each successive time I fondly remembered scenes painted so vividly by Bouton.  For me it was like re-watching a favorite movie such as Say Anything, The Graduate or When Harry Met Sally.  Ballplayers are traveling for months at a time and the same issues written here are also found in &quot;reality shows&quot;.  Ball Four was ahead of its time for this reason but also for the fact that no one was writting an insider book like this back in 1970.  My generation of sports fans can quote from this book, still today.	2002-10-18
US	46222102	R2E99778OYVN7L	0743400836	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	4	0	1	N	N	-----_____-----  (picture that)	Picture the book as that graph I made above.  I'd say the beginning was great, the characters wonderful, deep, coming aware, interesting.  Church and the protaganist were quite a dysfunctional match.  The middle was very good (sorry if the graph depicts a bottom, but that is not the case).  I view the middle as giving me too much repetitive information, in other words, it kind of slowed.  Not to say that it was bad and I don't want anyone to get the wrong impression because I enjoyed this book immensely.<br />The ending rocked!  It was black and ironic, just the way I like it.  I'd recommend the book.	2002-10-04
US	46222102	RT3QO1BRJF2QW	158851594X	45374405	Forbidden (The Lambert Series, Book 2)	Books	5	104	104	N	N	Early promise for this new writer	Early in many ways.  This author is still farely new on the scene as well as she is still in the beginning of the series itself.  I had the pleasure of reading an advanced copy of this book from the author and although it is not typically what I pick up, the book features big romance, multi-characters (an index is important to help track), action and suspense.  I feel her Lambert series, if given more word of mouth and mass marketing,  would end up on many best seller lists.  If the Lambert got placed in the right hands I wouldn't be surprised to see it as a four night CBS, NBC or ABC mini-series.	2002-09-25
US	46222102	R14XSL507ULJZI	0967952069	1009060	Paradise Dance	Books	4	8	8	N	N	What do James Carrol, Andres Dubus III, Norman Mailer and..	Michael Lee all have in common?  They all appear somewhere in Michael Lee's Paradise Dance.  OK, OK, it's a stretch, but the facts are still darn impressive.<br />Carrol-(winner of National Book Award) wrote the foward to this book.<br />Dubus III and Mailer-Recommended the book on the book sleeve.  So who is Michael Lee?<br />Michael is a talented author from Cape Cod, Massachusetts.  His hard hitting and often humorous stories take place in the fictitious working class town of Albright, MA.  One thing you should know is that people like the Clevers, the Andersons, the Bradys, the Wilsons, and the Partridge's don't appear in this collection. Certainly if they lived in Albright, you won't meet them in this excellant collection.  The folks you meet in Albright are the regular, unhappy souls, he would find in any normal American working class town.  You will find out their stories, their strange behaviors, their interesting hobbies (Adult XXX,mini-golf anyone?), and their deep dark wishes.  The stories are well written, short, bittersweet and punchy.  You get to know the people from Albright individually in each story, and then Lee will take you to the next scene, the next story.  Using the town as the common thread works wonderfully here and in my humble opinion, Micheal Lee will be a man on the literary move, a force to be reckoned with.	2002-08-08
US	46222102	R2RYY012UTKYZK	1891408232	477398325	Meat Sculptures	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Short book, short money, short shorts, long on laughs	What can be said of a book that is only 53 pages.  The first thing I have to say is thank God the publisher didn't charge a huge amount of money.  This chap book may be the cheapest item here at Amazon, and it turns out to be well worth the money.  Rogalus writes micro-fiction, short stories of one or two pages in length.  His characters are funny f-ups, similiar to and as amusing as the characters penned by Denis Johnson.  This book is the perfect one to read if you only have five minutes of free time during the day.  It does not portray today's urban society and the upwardly mobile, but it does dive into their past to uncover what they were doing in their high school to post college years.  I had the opportunity to hear Paul read and he is a humorous, honest man.  It's a good risk to shell out the [money] for the smiles this book can put on your face.	2002-04-02
US	46222102	R1DKZ1FHK8SBNF	0395199522	191610081	Sunday's fools: stomped, tromped, kicked, and chewed in the NFL,	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Patriots fans----laugh at the bad teams	This book from ex-player Tom Beer is an extremely funny account of the bumbling Patriots and pathetic Bronco days of the late sixties and early seventies.  We New Englanders know all about Clive Rush, Duane Thomas, the opening of Schafer Stadium, Harpo Gladiuex and Steve Kiner.  These folks are minor myths here, but if you are from outside the area, this book is a history of the teams mishaps.  Great story about the team recording a Christmas record album for a NFL compilation.	2002-03-29
US	46222102	REWI833WKJ4QR	155821240X	295069492	Mad Ducks and Bears: Football Revisited	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great characters, great book	George Plimpton wants to write a book about the techniques offensive and defensive lineman.  The Mad Duck (Alex Karras) and The Bear (John Gordy) will be used for research.  Their first meeting for the book places the author, George, in down lineman position in the apartment of one of the men as they hammer him into lamps and such.  From there the book takes off on the minds of Karras and Gordy.  It is filled with absolute laugh out loud hilarity.  The book finishes with Plimpton at Quarterback, but this time for the World Champion Baltimore Colts.  Insights to hall of famers Johnny Unitas and Bubba Smith are must reading for football historians.  (Smith at a party trying to teach a myna bird his name, \\"Bubba, Bubba, Bubba\\").  One also gets introduced to Bob Irsay who dismantles the team.  It is a hint of things to come----a move to Indianapolis.	2002-03-29
US	46222102	R26H44F03ARHB2	0060929650	641342878	The Name of the World: A Novel	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Short and bittersweet	This novel/novella is a very short work (143 pages) but reads like a tweener ( a too long, short story or a novel that didn't quite develope). The work would be a great 70 pager with some cuts. The author does not develop the story as he does in his other work. He seems to meander trying to get his point of an obsession of a professor for a college girl, while feeling sorrow and guilt for his deceased family.	2002-03-11
US	46222102	R1PB3EAMPTI9CJ	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mystic River is a page turner!	Lehane creates interesting characters that keep the story and the pages moving. I enjoyed this very much. My only red flags was the story using the main character's re-involvement with each other, twenty-five years after an intial event. This is an extreme and very unlikely coincidence. For me, I'd like to see him not beat around the bush, regarding the Boston crime/mob scene quite so much.  Perhaps I know too much local information.	2002-03-03
US	46222102	R3LHIPH3D682U1	1555973248	282650539	Celebrities in Disgrace: A Novella and Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Searle is the celebrity not in disgrace.	This collection of stories is both humorous and sad. Searle is a fine wordsperson and she takes you into the original world of imagination within her characters. Her themes are loss, longing for recognition, real or imagined, worlds of celebrities and dysfunctional family issues. An interesting minor theme is Searle realistically portraying individuals with developmental handicaps in a real way. Their characters are neither grotesque nor \\"happy angels\\". This collection tells wonderful and original stories, a real treat.	2002-03-03
US	46222102	RQ1SY4SH3LVXN	034544177X	983384697	All Souls: A Family Story from Southie (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	There's a place in the World called South Boston	There's a place in the world called South Boston.  \\"Southie\\" as it is called, was and still is a place that impoverished \\"whites\\" in Massachusetts live.  It is a place that the Irish mob had its heavy fingers on in nineteen seventies and to some extent today.  All Souls is the story of those times.  This memoir, often compared to Angela's Ashes tells of class struggle, busing, murder, drugs, alcohol, political mob control, broken families and strong community ties.  I may make it sound like a gaggle of negatives and just one positive, but that one positive is the strongest link. It is the glue that bonds the South Boston together.  Michael MacDonald's hard hitting true story is an enjoyable marvel of a piece of society.  MacDonald takes the reader to places, so unbelievable to most, that one gets the feeling of well written fiction in this tremendous true tale.  This is a MUST read.	2002-02-12
US	46222102	R3I7MR20AFBQO7	1582970750	800298466	Guide to Literary Agents	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Tremendous reference and cross reference guide	If you need an agent, this is a great place to start.  The book cross references agnets which are looking for new clients, established writers etc.  They'll tell you each agents specialty, (fiction, non-fiction and types of each) their names, address, and how you can querie them.  Every agent listed does not charge for reading etc., thus eliminating possible scam artists.  A tremendous tool....the rest is up to the author.	2002-01-22
US	46222102	R2GSHA11SX1UJ0	0802136974	69029112	Charles Bukowski: Locked in the Arms of a Crazy Life	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Fun for fans of Bukowski	I finished this book in two days.  As a Bukowski fan I enjoyed learning about the people he wrote about.  Still, I thought to myself, was Bukowski writing about those people so truthfully or was Sounes filling in the blanks and putting the cart before the horse in his non-fiction.  I very much enjoyed it but had to give it a four because the biographer kept saying that Bukowski was in a stage of his life where he was producing the best poems ever.  Seemed to be that the author was telling us this time and time again in all stages of the life of Mr. Bukowski.  I could never tell what his opinion was about the best poetry done by C.B.	2001-12-31
US	46222102	R143XC6T06FXWE	1891408178	43391750	Do Not Look Directly Into Me	Books	4	1	2	N	N	From the world of another Mississippi writer	I'm a sucker for this contemporary short fiction. Much in the style of Larry Brown, Carver, and not so much Bukowski, Crocker draws you into his characters. When you try to leave, he won't let you. In this tale you are the guest that sits in discomfort and wants to leave the setting...but you are Trapped. The stories ends in resolve, something that is not done easily. Bravo! The full twenty-three stories will read like a fun weekend in Jersey City. I enjoyed this very much.	2001-12-20
US	46222102	R28LN6P09H4AXX	0967907314	428686498	Disappearing into View	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Another Excellant Work	Andrew K. Stone's second novel presents a much darker story line than his previous, All Flower's Die.  The novel is set in Boston and features and individual whom makes an informed choice in becoming homeless.  This gentleman had worshipped his father and when something horrible happens to him to shatter the myth of his hero, the main character disappears into the life of the homeless.  The hook of the book is that he ends up being found by the plant supervisor of a &quot;food service&quot; company run by the local mob.  Disappearing Into View is the well written account about the internal conflicts that we, in our comfortable lives rarely consider.  Mr. Stone's sophomore effort is a real winner and his future work should continue on the fast lane of success.	2001-12-17
US	46222102	RKQ9K08LJWZ2K	0060934646	598841025	The Dark House: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Romance, Family Dynamics, Mystery add up to real thrills	The Dark House takes you on the ride of your life. Starting out with the main character Edward Rollins, a damaged soul, riding in his car, following random people to their homes and ending with a building strength and catharsis of Rollins, this book is extremely well written. Rollins definitely has problems, but as the reader starts viewing him as psychologically damaged by his circumstances, he becomes less and less screwed up---and more of a classic protagonist. In The Dark House everything has a reason as well as a connection to the story. If I didn't enjoy it so much I would have been put off by some of the coincidences found in the plot (but NO LOOSE ENDS in this work). The writing was excellent, plot intense, while the scenes and individuals were interesting and stimulating.	2001-12-04
US	46222102	R30G47QEKSVZ0B	188638813X	813917686	Swimming in It	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Don't swim an hour after eating.	This is a well written, sardonically humored story of a woman driven to a protective shelter.  I gave it 5 stars because<br />a.  It's located in Davis Square somerville, Ma;, where I work.<br />b.  The humor found in it is real and sarcastic.<br />c.  It's the story of a woman's way to a shelter and her revelations surrounding it.<br />d.  You like the character and want her to succeed.<br />e.  You can see the truth in it.<br /><br />For each of these above items, I was drawn to a book, which normally I wouldn't be drawn to.  I recommend it, but deduct one star for each statement above (a-e) that you may not enjoy as a reader.  Buy it, read it....I did and found it an enjoyable, read-it-in-one-sitting novel.	2001-11-23
US	46222102	R39D6PU3KQU2ZE	1555533817	551749119	The Year The Red Sox Won The Series: A Chronicle of the 1918 Championship Season	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I wasn't around in 1918	But in 1918, the Sox won.  They really, really won.  This well researched book makes me fell like I was there, 83 years ago, following the REd Sox daily, the same way I do now.  Difference is, they win it and this is not good fiction, it is great non-fiction.  What Ken Burns did for baseball history, Ty Waterman does for the 1918 Red Sox.<br />Another interesting thing about this book is the news clips which is how you, as a reader, follow along with the season.  The interesting part is not just the information from long ago, but how a ball club is written about back in 1918, and how it differs today.  Sure the players had  &quot;issues&quot; back then, but now days we can get bogged down on the importance of player's personal problems and the effect that has on the team.  Looking foward to digesting the next Ty Waterman fact filled book.	2001-11-23
US	46222102	R2X5UMOIBDLCBQ	0156011042	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Boring work from a very good writer	Some of Guterson's descriptions are marvelous.  The loneliness of his main character trying to meet the goal of his death is a long and thought out process.  Problem is the thoughts are slow and plodding.  There wasn't much dialog and it seemed you wanted to rush through the book in order to find out the ending, or the meat.  I became edgy reading this, and the fact is, I couldn't get through it.	2001-11-14
US	46222102	R35LWM6CESH9TY	0345423879	131261277	Candy: A Novel of Love and Addiction	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Liked it, loved Candy girl, hated that they were such losers	I wish they would have made it.  I wish that they could have beat their addictions early in this book.  You pull for them, you want them to be clean.  You want them to not be such F-ups, but they are.  You wonder how they survive, pay rent or any bills, because it seemed that all their jobs, scheming and fraud, lead to heroin.  A strong pro and anti-drug statement made here.  The love a drug holidays and the crime/withdrawl/pain it leads to.  The reader will get out of it as much as they put into it.  The prose is constantly wonderful, absolutely griping.	2001-11-05
US	46222102	R3SRLM084D31RO	0876857632	358868458	Hollywood	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A must read for any Barfly fan.	This novel by Charles Bukowski is basically the making of the movie Barfly.  All of the people are recognizable even if given not so obvious fictional names.  If you are a lover of Bukowski and a lover of Barfly the movie, this is a five star classic.  If you are a lover of either of the above----it's still a four star, well written work.  I found that this novel exceeds both Pulp and Women, his other known longer works, in both writing style and movement of plot and characters.  Theme wise it takes you to the familiar places that Bukowski often drags you to.	2001-10-29
US	46222102	R1S0X5J87HWY38	0375727744	704059555	The Cage Keeper: And Other Stories	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Can something be great, yet mixed?	I was up in the mountains of New Hampshire when I read this collection of short stories so I found the New England settings of these stories just about perfect.  The writing is thoroughly enjoyable. Andres Dubus III knows how to turn a phrase and describe a scene with the best of them. The reason that I gave this collection 4 stars was the fact that many of the ending disappointed me. The endings made the stories disappear. Dubus III has a style that really locks you in to the characters. Many of the main characters are problem individuals who you end up viewing with or reading with empathy. When some of the endings fall off the cliff, so to speak you end up feeling cheated for developing this empathy. Other than that the stories are creative and fantastic in the ways of Carver, Chekhov and Johnson.	2001-10-22
US	46222102	R2B7JNZ3BLPA61	0312271913	728373678	How To Publish and Promote Online	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Examples of How to Succeed by those who have.	M.J. Rose and Angela Adair-Hoy know how to promote.  They were sick of people cornering them in public and e-mail about how to &quot;do it&quot;, so they wrote a book about it.  All you need to know about publishing, promoting, where to target and who to contact is included in this useful book.  Tips and advice are offered by over twenty e and print authors.  The main thing to remember is that you will probabally work harder on the promoting piece than the actually writing of your actual book.  The experts all got to where they are by working on these tips, using their time and effort, and not giving up.  The thought alone depresses me, but there is a wealth of info found in How to Publish and Promote Online.	2001-08-08
US	46222102	R3IQMSFOZAYFFH	0140085025	132529584	Forced Entries: The Downtown Diaries: 1971-1973	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Basketball Diaries Grows up	Taking smack, kicking smack, this book details it all.  It is life in NYC on a habit and trying to beat the habit.  Itis the message of what Basketball Diaries, the movie attempted  (In my opinion that ruined the movie, but so what).  Still there are some unforgetable scenes, with special guests Patty Smith and A. Ginsberg.  Jim Carrol paints scenes so vivid in reality one can taste them.  The scenes are real, gutty, and sometimes downright so unbelievable that they have to be based on truth.  A bit of advice:  Don't go to the movies and sit next to someone with an arm infection wearing a tight t-shirt.	2001-07-30
US	46222102	R2XM7A7UAWSOT0	0743205383	874937184	Fay: A Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Brown works within character limits	Fay.  A beautiful girl.  A dumb girl.  A hick girl.  Described as innocent as a new born.  I don't know about that. The folks she runs into or the losers and dregs of society.  You want them all to die, and that's a good thing, because a lot of them do.  Fay can't find a decent situation.  Poor pregnant Fay.  She smokes and drinks while pregnant.  She gets taken advantage of.  Given all of the above, why three stars?  The reason is that Mr. Brown writes in the voice and limits of each of his characters.  A lesser writer would really fail at that given the character's flaws and dimensions.  I enjoyed reading it and the best parts are when Fay gets tough.  The rest of the women in this book are people that will really tick off women:  Strippers, Porn stars, Play things, Neglecting mothers.  I really wanted this book to be a five star classic, because I think Larry Brown's books are remarkable.  Fay still is a remarkable book, but only for hard core fans of the author.	2001-07-30
US	46222102	R16RVIBSYKGK9J	1931297444	822785323	Sins of Darkness	Books	5	2	2	N	N	History as a Thriller	Where were you when RFK was killed?  That is the simple question.  James Musgrave moves to the more difficult why, when, how, and who done it.  The Sins of Darkness mixes fiction, historical research, and psychological thrills for a near perfect combination.  The fun for the reader is picking out what is fact and what is fiction.  Was it a conspiracy involving mind control.  Was the assasin brain washed by a top-secret group to become a super, heartless killer?  The fun is finding out the truth!  The fun is finding out the fiction!  The fun is finding out it all.	2001-07-27
US	46222102	R326K8DL7SB0CV	1929429959	277104792	Gabriella's Voice	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A year at the Opera	Did you know Michael J. Vaughn's novel &quot;Gabriella's Voice&quot; is being considered for a 2001 Pulitzer Prize in Letters as &quot;distinguished fiction by an American author.&quot;  Did you know that it started as an e-book.  Did you know that this book has been receiving extremely postive reveiws since it was published.  Well enough about history, because I found out that the book was an excellant read.  I strayed away from this book because I am a music fan but not an opera fan.  I recall being trapped in a station wagon as my father listened to the Saturday afternoon opera on radio each week.  Tenors I could deal with, but sopranos?  I would picture each one looking like Julia Child with Viking horns.  I admit that this is a stereotype, but we all have them.  I am a fan of e-books and was happy at this book's nomination for a major award.  I then picked up a copy and was blown away.  I enjoy stories of travel and could really relate to Bill, traveling around after his Diva.  Did you say stalker?  NO, not the case.  Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder and this is what Bill becomes engulfed in.  Mr. Vaughn captures his audience the way a conductor catches ones attention at a symphony and the way a diva draws you in at an opera.	2001-07-27
US	46222102	R1Q9M4F8AHTAQX	0679431071	933185835	Dancing After Hours: Stories	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not as good as Selected Stories	I read Dancing After Hours immediately after I read Selected Stories by Andre Dubus.  I found Dancing After Hours not as enjoyable.  It seemed to meander and was not as concise as &quot;Selected&quot;.  By being able to compair the two, I probabally gave this book a disservice, because the ability of this man to flat out write is undeniable.	2001-07-26
US	46222102	RQF900W9LCKVR	0916562514	509234735	Brazil	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For the People	To view a country and write as seen through their people is a difficult task.  Errol Uys' re-release of Brazil is a blazing success.  This book creates an image and feel for the country that truly leaves a concrete imprint in the mind of the reader.  This well-researched book is a facinating epic for fans of historical fiction as well as lovers of non-fiction.	2001-07-26
US	46222102	R12URDKVF8UYW2	0879237368	500628851	Selected Stories of Andre Dubus	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Classic Work	Andres stories in this collection are short and sublime.  Most deal with dysfunctional relationships, the search for and the newness of.  The book opens with some sort of a mystery.  Someone gets shot and you don't know what happened till the end.  That's all i can tell you without ruining it.  That story is also a mystery because it is quite unlike the others in the book.  One other exception is a baseball story, which stays true to the theme of relationships when the star minor-leaguer's long-term relationship goes sour.  Good writing and to the point story telling.	2001-07-26
US	46222102	R1D13NUWF6S2NZ	0679734910	290535925	Big Bad Love	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A masterpiece	This is an inspiring collection of shorts by Larry Brown.  Rarely does he follow the typical short story plot curve, but the twists of events and dialog make this a real text in the art of short fiction.  Mr. Brown reminds us of Carver, Bukowski and the rest of the &quot;time to get out of Dodge in into the bar&quot; great writers of recent times.  An enjoyable read while sitting on a cooler, watching the sunset.	2001-07-24
US	46222102	R2T45RXI7H32Q	0967907306	718049837	All Flowers Die	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read this book!	This book by Andrew K. Stone is a really fine piece of work.  Rarely does a debut work show maturity and literary flair as Stone's, All Flower's Die.  If it is not allready, this book should be mentioned on the list of hidden gems.	2001-07-06
US	46222102	R12ISI3TI17OCK	1931297177	619119964	Ponder This (eBook edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ponder this is a gem	L.A. MacKay provides us with an insightful, well- written collection of poetry. This book is a must for poetry fans, but more importantly a must for those whom are NOT current fans of poetry. The reason being: This collection of poems flows easily and captures us with a wide range of emotions and subject matter. I read that bookbooters had an unplanned opening in the poetry genre for Ms. MacKay and in my opinion, they made a fine choice.	2000-12-21
US	46222102	R35VQCTDP92JKC	1931297207	619119964	Ponder This	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This IS to be Pondered	L.A. MacKay provides us with an insightful, well- written collection of poetry. This book is a must for poetry fans, but more importantly a must for those whom are NOT current fans of poetry. The reason being: This collection of poems flows easily and captures us with a wide range of emotions and subject matter. I read that bookbooters had an unplanned opening in the poetry genre for Ms. MacKay and in my opinion, they made a fine choice.	2000-12-20
