US	46254038	R1IOVX0W6C4ANJ	0670032646	621157776	American Dynasty: Aristocracy, Fortune, and the Politics of Deceit in the House of Bush	Books	4	69	83	N	N	Thought provoking and nuanced	American Dynasty is a thought-provoking and well-researched book.  Unlike the polemical works by Al Franken or Michael Moore (or their conservatives counterparts such as Ann Coulter, Rush Limbaugh etc.), Phillips presents a nuanced and deeply disturbing look at American politics today.  Phillips points out that no one, on either the Right or the Left, is completely clean and that our political system has become extremely corrupt and tilted toward special interests.  But Phillips (a Republican) reserves his greatest criticism for the Bush family which he says has engaged in a disturbing and deeply consistent pattern of deceit and deception.<br />Reviewers who charge that Phillips is unfair and that he engages in character assassination against Bush cannot have read this book very closely.  Phillips points out similarities in behavior between Bush, Clinton, Johnson, Nixon, Kennedy and Reagan.  His point, however, is that the Bush family has engaged in more egregious and more consistent patterns of deceit than these other presidents (he provides specific and very detailed evidence for this).  He also acknowledges that dynasties are becoming more common in American politics overall but he argues, and convincingly so, that the Bush family has been more aggressive (and more successful) in building and maintaining a family dynasty than the Kennedys, the Clintons and other political American families.<br />In general, the book is well-written, although a bit dry.  It's not a book which you will read in one sitting.  However, the chapter divisions make this an easy book to pick up and put down.<br />The best chapters were, I think, the chapters on Texas economics and the growth of the Religious Right.  The Texas economics chapters is frightening-here is a state and culture which boasts some of America's richest citizens but where there is a reluctance to share or spread the wealth.  The results are disastrous-Phillips doggedly demonstrates the impact poor health care, poor schooling and a lack of social services have had on the state of Texas.  Reading this one can only hope that Texas does not set a pattern for the rest of the US.  The Religious Right chapter was equally chilling.  <br />Overall, the discussion of George H.W. Bush was the most illuminating.  Bush created and maintained deeply misleading stories about who he is and what he has accomplished with his life.  The myth of the Bush family presents a sharp contrast to the reality.<br />My one complaint: I wish that there had been a greater discussion of the ties between the Bush family and the Saudis.  I appreciate the discussions of the Bush connections to Enron etc. and there was some discussion of the connection between the Saudis and the Bush family but this needs to be discussed in greater detail. <br />As an historian, I also had some minor quibbles with his discussions of monarchies and their restorations (specifically his discussion of the Stuart Restoration).	2004-02-23
US	46254038	R1IEXPJWCFWAEU	0316734500	36886929	The Bookseller of Kabul	Books	4	153	158	N	N	Fascinating	Sierstad has written an outstanding book---her writing is lyrical (or at least the translation is!) and the subject is fascinating. Contrary to what other reviewers have said, Sierstad never claims that her family is representative of the Afghani people (in her introduction, she notes that she picked the Khan family because she found them and their stories compelling---she says, however, that the family is by no means typical as they are literate, middle class and urban).<br />That said, the book does provide a penetrating look at a complex and complicated family forced to live under horrific conditions.  Within the context of his society, Sultan Khan is an enlightened and liberal man.  No fundamentalist, he reads widely and believes in freedom of thought and speech.  But for all that Khan is a liberal man in a conservative society---he is still a product of a highly conservative society.  As such, he is a polygamist and a man who forces his sons to bind to his will.<br />Khan is not a likeable man but his story, which the author tells in great detail, goes a long way in explaining who he is and why he acts as he does.  As a bookseller, Khan was tortured first by the Soviets and then by the Taliban.  Not surprisingly, he seeks, above all, to protect himself and all he owns (which for him, includes his family) from the ravages of war.  This means, of course, that Khan forces the members of his family to do his bidding (his sons are taken from school and forced to work in his businesses etc.).  <br />Khan is a despot.  His actions toward his two wives, his children, his siblings and his nephews all reflect his desire to control his fate in a society which has allowed him no control over his own life.  That doesn't excuse him, of course.  As a westerner reading the book (and as a woman), I was appalled by Khan's horrific treatment of his wives---I found it fascinating that Khan could easily reject those aspects of Islam which he found demanding (praying five times a day) while adhering to those which work to his benefit (polygamy and the right to a teenage wife when he is in his 50s).<br />The book isn't a simple man--bad, woman-good type of book.  Look closely at the female characters (Khan's mother is as much a despot as Khan himself is)---their lives are equally complex and they are deeply nuanced individuals.  On the flip side (and this can't be denied), women in Afghanistan suffer under the hands of men.  <br />I strongly recommend this book!	2003-12-02
US	46254038	R39K1YOP0HLH73	0807083593	172284880	West of the Jordan: A Novel (Bluestreak)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	a pleasure	A very interesting and fast read.  The story of four young Arab women and the different worlds and choices which confront them.  The women are all cousins---two are American; one flits between the US and Jordan and the fourth lives in Jordan. <br />There are no simple stereotypes or answers in this book.  In fact, the stories involving Khadija and Hala are never fully resolved---you are left dangling which is okay and very realistic.<br />This is a really quick read---you can read it in an evening.  I strongly recommend it!	2003-11-03
US	46254038	R1AR0FK1YBQJCS	0345441265	816819629	The Ladies Auxiliary (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An outstanding study of the evil women do	Fantastic!  An excellent study of the evil women do.<br />    Batsheva, a young widow, moves into a very small Orthodox Jewish community in Memphis.  As an unmarried woman and a stranger, she is instantly the subject of gossip and speculation. As a convert, her enthusiastic love of Judiasm is suspect---in a community where ritual and rigid obedience to the law has replaced a love for religion and/or God.<br />     The women in the community are highly individualized and therefore, easily recognizable.  They are women we all know and they can be found everywhere in Amrica.  There is a Mrs. Levy (the gossip who always begins everything with &quot;I don't want say anything bad BUT...&quot;) in every community---just as there is a Helen (the woman who blindly follows others because she is afraid to discover who she really is), a Tzipporah (a woman convinced of her righteousness) and a Rena (a woman struggling to hide her own secrets).  The characters are fantastic.<br />     Buy this and share it with all the women you know.	2003-10-17
US	46254038	R1PRZYDEGZNK93	1573225487	127424363	The Romance Reader	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Fascinating look at a closed society	I thought the book was fantastic-the characters were compelling and Abraham provides a tight tension (I was never quite sure what Rachel would do).<br />As I am extremely interested in strict interpretations of Judaism (while being very glad I live in a secular world!), I found the background of the story deeply fascinating.  That said, I don't think the book is simply a story about the Chassidic world.  It's a story about a closed community and the desire of some of its members to remain in the closed community while others push at and seek to explore the unknown world outside the closed society.  There are innumerable parallels to this-for me, having a mom who grew up in an extremely rigid immigrant community and whose mom rebelled in a big way (going to college in the 1940s, marrying &quot;out&quot; and marrying someone of a different religion-a WASP whose family came here in the 1630s), the story was really insightful (made me understand my mom and her choices in a new way-and why many people from her childhood still see her, 40 years later, as a dangerous rebel).  But it also provided me with insights into some of the closed societies to which I have belonged and the reluctance of the members of these grps to acknowledge the validity of the lives of those outside the society.<br />Abraham writes well and the characters are well-drawn and highly complex people (with all sorts of contradictions within themselves).  This was a book I literally couldn't put down.  I strongly recommend it!	2003-08-15
US	46254038	R2PA6925KKF4BT	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fantastic!	Russo has written a fantastic story about life in a small town and the loss of one's aspirations.  Miles Roby is trapped as the manager of a café in Empire Falls, Maine-years before, he dropped out of college when his mother was dying and now he remains in Empire Falls as his daughter, Tick, is finishing high school.<br /> Miles' entrapment is, to some degree, of his own choosing-he has allowed himself to be manipulated by his shiftless father, his conniving ex-wife, his jealous neighbor and the town's wealthiest woman.  He lives a life in which he seeks to satisfy others-and, as a result, he has never really found satisfaction or pleasure (with the exception of his love for his daughter).<br /> This is the first Russo novel I've read-and I was amazed by the lyrical writing.  Russo reminds me of Anne Tyler (who also writes about the disappointments and inner lives of people who appear, on the surface, to be completely ordinary).  I can't recommend this book highly enough.	2003-07-10
US	46254038	R3C72DKV8GBS53	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	5	5	N	N	a fun fast read--bring it to the beach	Brown has written a fun and interesting thriller-one which combines science fiction, history and religion.  This is the kind of book you should bring to the beach or on a plane-it's a quick read and will keep your interest until the end.<br /> When a scientist/priest is murdered under strange circumstances, Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor of iconography, is called in to explain the mysterious symbols carved on the dead man's body.  Langdon notes that the symbols referred to the Illuminati-a heretical group which has battled the Catholic Church...but the Illuminati have long since disappeared...or have they?!  Langdon sets out to discover if the Illuminati are still active and if they are behind the murder.<br /> You won't be sorry you read this-my only complaint was a minor one (as an historian of science, I have to point out that science and religion are not and have not always been in diametric opposition to one another	2003-07-10
US	46254038	R3HWZJ83CJUNZJ	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	30	64	N	N	Appalling and deeply destructive to our society	As an historian, I find myself appalled by this book.  There is no excuse for shoddy research and angry screaming polemical diatribes such as Coulter writes.  I am prepared to extend Ms. Coulter the right to her own opinions (although she and her kind seem reluctant to extend this right to any one who opposes her) but she does not have the right to claim her book is factually based.  It is not-take it from one who knows (I possess a PhD in American history from one of the country's leading universities).<br />What disturbs me the most abt Coulter and her work is not the lies which she perpetuates but rather the division she is bent on creating in this society.  Regardless of my political leanings, I find myself deeply upset by her screeching &quot;treason&quot; at those who oppose her.  Liberals, it might be remembered, are the ones who brought you civil rights, ensured that women had the right to vote, and brought you the New Deal (which has benefitted every American-with the exception of the upper-classes-and Coulter herself is a member of the latter group-she is from Greenwich, one of the wealthiest suburbs in America).  These actions are not exactly treasonous.  To call liberals (and people like Cleland or Kerry who, unlike George W. Bush, actually fought in Vietnam) treasonous is really unforgiveable.  I can only hope that Ms. Coulter is sued for slander---and soon.<br />Give this book a miss.  Read anything but this book.	2003-07-09
US	46254038	R3NQ6H6QR9DTDR	1573229865	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This is not a book you will put down!	Pears is a super versatile writer.  His books vary widely (from his light and amusing art history/mystery series to the much more serious and scholarly An Instance of the Fingerpost).  The only thing that's a guarantee when picking up one of Pears' books is that it will be a great read-and The Dream of Scipio is no exception.<br /> The book is an in-depth examination of three moments of crisis-the fall of Rome, the collapse of Europe during the first onslaught of the Black Death and the height of World War II.  All three moments forced ordinary-and extraordinary-people to make difficult moral decisions.  The stories Pears tells focus on the lives of three men-all of whom see themselves as bearing the torch of civilization at a time when civilization is in danger of collapse. Because these men see themselves as intellectuals and set apart from the rest of humanity, they believe that the choices they make are justified-but ironically, the choices Manlius, Olivier, and Julian make reveal the weakness of humanity.<br /> As an historian, I was fascinated by this book.  Pears really does get everything right (a rarity among historical novelists) but in addition to that, he makes us uncomfortably aware of how our choices can and often do have consequences beyond our intentions.  More than many historians, Pears provided me with a deeper understanding of how and why anti-Semitism, or even more simply, hatred of outsiders, has flourished throughout history.  A depressing but really thought-provoking book.	2003-07-08
US	46254038	R2JI5PTYFME6KM	0060953713	351520335	Blue Angel: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Satire	As a former academic, I loved this book.  Prose is a great writer and she clearly knows academia-its petty squabbles and the overarching belief of its members that only universities and colleges provide a sanctuary for the mind.<BR> <BR> The main storyline deals with Ted Swensen, a novelist turned professor.  Swensen teaches a creative writing seminar where he encounters Angela Argo.  Argo is a gifted writer but a deeply troubled kid (as is every adolescent-take it from someone who taught college kids for four years!).  Argo lures Swensen, first with her writing (which Swensen, who is suffering from writer's block, finds incredibly exciting) and then ultimately with her body.  Not surprisingly, Angela, who seeks only her own advancement, turns the tables on Swensen and reports him for sexual harassment.  In the highly politicized college environment of the 1990s, Swensen is given a (not so fair) trail and then watches his life fall apart.<BR> <BR> As a feminist, I cannot praise this book highly enough.   I am extremely liberal but I was deeply disturbed by the divisive and often troubling politics which have come to characterize most college campuses-and Prose does an outstanding job of demonstrating the dangers of excessive political correctness (which can, at heart, be as dangerous as McCarthyism, the Salem witch hunts etc.).	2003-07-08
US	46254038	R3NEOCWQGDWFAP	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	As always, an amazing and fantastic read!	This book completely fulfills the promise of J.K. Rowling's earlier books.   Despite tremendous pressure, Rowling has delivered-yet again.<br /> The work is darker and more layered than her earlier books-in part, b/c Harry is growing up and in part, b/c Harry's readers are growing with him.  Although Rowling pulls off the difficult task of writing on several levels (different elements of her story appeal to adults, children and adolescents), the book will have an especially strong appeal to 13 year olds b/c they are just beginning to experience the agony of adolescence.<BR>  <BR> And agony it is.  What impressed me about this book was how developed Harry is and how real the difficulties he encounters are.  He deals with the usual-Voldemort-but he also must face the realization that even those whom he loves may have very real flaws.  This is a concept which often baffles adults and Harry's struggles to deal with the fact that his father may not have been perfect really rings true. <br /> I was also really impressed by the way in which Harry must face death.  This was incredibly real-his absolute rage and feeling of impotence (I say this as an adult who lost her own father while an adolescent).  I hadn't thought I would but I cried when I read this section.  <br /> Overall, I can't recommend this book highly enough.  Despite the sadness (and Harry's anger) which permeates the story, I loved the story-and I will always love Hogwarts, Hogsmeade, and Diagon Alley.  I just wish I could visit them and explore them even more but I guess that's a wish shared by everyone who reads these books.  <br /> One final comment: I feel frustrated by reviewers and commentators who seem dismissive of Rowling's accomplishments.  So many of these adult reviewers seem to be ignorant of mythology, the history of magic and English literature, especially Jane Austen's books (I love the incorporation of Mrs. Norris from Mansfield Park).  As an historian of science who taught a college class onthe history of magic and science, I love all of Rowling's sly references to real-life alchemists, astronomers etc. and I am amazed by the way she incorporates these so smoothly into the text.  Her knowledge of mythology is equally impressive-and the references are fantastic if you only know where and how to look (read a basic book on mythology, guys!).  <BR>   <BR>     And for critics who believe that Narnia or Middle Earth are better places to visit...give me a break!  As a child, I found Narnia to be incredibly Victorian and silly (and the children to be hopelessly priggish).  As far as Tolkein goes, his characters are not as well-developed as Rowling's and his self-conscious fashioning of his imagined world is so heavy-handed that it can make reading the books a burden.  Rowling has a much lighter touch and her characters are very real!	2003-06-24
US	46254038	RDAQ95OTFYDFE	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun quick read	This isn't an especially well-written book but it's very interesting and very provocative.  The idea that there are competing strains/versions of Christianity and that the official church (the Vatican) has acted to destroy or at least suppress the truth is an old one but Dan Brown uses this idea to great effect.<br /><br />  The characters are interesting and the plot moves very quickly---this is a real page-turner.  Brown constantly leaves you guessing and you are never sure who is on the side of the hero and heroine and who is opposed to them.<br />  I loved the interaction between Langdon (the hero---a Harvard professor) and Sophie Neveu (the heroine---a Parisian cop and cryptologist).  The action in the book occurs over abt a day or two and Sophie and Langdon's relationship is true to this.  Many thrillers have the hero and heroine fall madly in love within a 24 hour period as they are being chased by bad guys---this is pretty unrealistic!  Brown doesn't fall into this trap.  His characters have only just met and they maintain a professional and very real relationship throughout the book (no sex on the run).<br />  My only complaint (and it's very minor) is that Brown doesn't include a \\"Historical Footnotes\\" page.  I wanted to know what was true and what was not true in the book!<br />  Buy this---and reserve a day to read it.  It goes very quickly and you won't regret it!	2003-06-06
US	46254038	R9U3EHTUPRYN7	0375404619	570205192	Sons of Mississippi: A Story of Race and Its Legacy	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Thought-provoking and well-written	Hendrickson has written an outstanding book-one which does much to explain the roots and structure of racism in American society.  As his starting point, Hendrickson uses a photograph of several Southern sheriffs posing with a billy club just days before the riots at the U/Mississippi in 1962.  Henrickson then explores the lives of these men and their descendants in the New South.<br />    To claim that the book is &quot;southern bashing&quot; is grossly inaccurate.  Hendrickson explores and speaks with many Southerners-and in doing so, he points out the differences in experience (there is no one Southern experience).  Hendrickson also explores the different ways in which people of similar backgrounds reacted to the Civil Rights Movement (he looks at white southerners who supported the Civil Rights Movement as well as those who disdained the movement-proving that southerners had many options and that not all white southerners are the  bigots which we Northerners traditionally associate with the South).  <BR> <BR>         I was especially struck by the great job he does of demonstrating the love which many African-American Mississippians have for their state (there is sometimes a tendency to see those who define themselves as Southerners or Mississippians as primarily white men-but the conflicted and tortured feelings which many African Americans have about their state, its beauty and its past are an important component of the state's history and present).  <br /> The saddest aspect of the book for me is the tendency of most Mississippians to glorify and distort their past.  Mississippians have an incredible past-and one they can be proud of-if we are talking about Faulkner, Wright, Welty, the rise of the Civil Rights Movement (which consisted of blacks and whites) etc.  But the tendency of many Mississippians to glorify the plantation past or even the supposedly more innocent eras of the 1930s and 1940s (when blacks were forced to step off of sidewalks when passingwhites, when they lived in constant fear of lynchings etc.) is really troubling.<br /> Southerners need to confront their past (ironically, the Germans have done a better job of doing this)-until they honestly do this, there can be little hope that they can move forward.  Some of the individuals in the book seemed to be making an honest attempt to think about and confront the uglier aspects of their state's past and this was really moving.  However, the tendency of many others to brush aside the past was troubling.  <br /> Overall, I strongly recommend this book-it is well-written and incredibly thought-provoking.	2003-04-23
US	46254038	R2B7I4MN3VWMS2	0449208672	120535270	The Cater Street Hangman	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A good book---but a terrible series	...That said, The Cater Street Hangman is enjoyable. The mystery is good-it's genuinely unclear who has been killing women in the area around Cater Street. And the characters, at least in this novel, are actually somewhat realistic. Charlotte, her heroine, is a bit tedious in her self-righteousness but Thomas Pitt, the inspector who is investigating the murders in the neighborhood in which Charlotte lives with her parents and sisters, is a good foil. He is straight-forward, unapologetic and seems curiously immune from the usual fallout created by the Victorian class system. I especially liked Emily, Charlotte's younger and highly ambitious sister. The Ellisons, Emily's and Charlotte's family are genteelly middle-class but Emily intends to marry up-and she manages to achieve it-even as the world in which the Ellisons live falls apart when a killer begins stalking the Ellisons and their neighbors....	2003-04-09
US	46254038	R2CUR6T8JL3I5J	0396070167	956839482	House of Many Shadows	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Chilling---wonderful for a cold winter's night	I have read and re-read this book countless times---and I still find myself needing to check under the bed after reading it!<BR>   <BR>    At the urging of her bossy cousin, Sylvia, Meg moves in to an old Pennsylvania farm house which Sylvia owns.  On the surface, Meg is there to recuperate from an accident but Sylvia has also persuaded her to help restore the house so it can be donated to the local historical society.  Andy, Sylvia's adult stepson, has also been enlisted to help in the restoration.<br />    Since her accident, Meg has suffered from auditory hallucinations...but while at the farmhouse, Meg suddenly begins to experience visual hallucinations.  At first, she dismisses them as the result of her accident but when it becomes clear that Andy is seeing the same &quot;hallucinations&quot; both Andy and Meg are forced to acknowledge the unthinkable---the house is haunted.<br />    Barbara Michaels is an incredibly gifted writer of suspense/ghost stories.  She combines the ordinary with the extraordinary---most of her heroines are skeptics which make their experiences with the supernatural even more chilling.  You know that these are not the fanciful people who would see ghosts wherever they are.  In fact, these are the people who will deny the ghost's existence until the last possible moment.  <br />    As an historian, I love the research Michaels puts into her books (and she makes it seem effortless!).  She does an incredible job recreating the past and providing you with wonderful tidbits of historical information---all without hectoring or lecturing you!  <br />    Buy this book---but make sure that there aren't any impending power outages when you sit down to read it because you'll want to keep the lights burning for at least a week after you've read this!	2003-04-09
US	46254038	R1SAYCFWMHHT61	0385015836	77921689	D'aulaire's Book of Greek Myths	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The best introduction to the Greek myths ever written	I first read this book as a child---it was a favorite of my older siblings who recommended it.  All four of us have bought copies as adults and we all keep these cherished copies nearby---so we can consult it often!<BR> <BR>       The book is a fantastic introduction to the Greek myths.  The Daulaires write extremely well and they tell the stories in a simple and direct way.  And...they tell almost ALL the stories.  It's amazing!  This book---which I read when I was abt 8---laid the perfect foundation for high school and college Latin as well as for my graduate classes (no joke!  I was the only one in my graduate seminars who knew who Asclepius was, who knew the ins and outs of the Trojan wars etc.---all because of this book!).<br />      The illustrations in the text are as fantastic as the writing (a rarity!).  As a child, I loved the image of Aphrodite rising from the sea (and when I later discovered Botticelli's Venus, I thought \\"hmm...Botticelli must have been influenced by the Daulaires!\\").  Seriously, the illustrations are wonderful--my personal favorite---and the one which always comes to mind when someone mentions spring---is the one of Persephone being seized by Hades.  It was frightening as a child and in the gloom of winter, I still find it disturbing to visualize it!<br />    If you know of an 8 or 9 year old, buy this book immediately (whether it's their birthday or not!).  And if you don't know of any 8 or 9 year olds, buy the book for yourself.  You will not regret it---it is much better, more accessible and more of a pleasure to read than Edith Hamilton, Robert Graves etc.	2003-04-08
US	46254038	R1WYOL5LP4DZZX	0380731231	454159198	Trojan Gold (Vicky Bliss Mysteries)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The best Elizabeth Peters ever and that's saying a lot!	Elizabeth Peters is one of the best writers around.  Her books are consistently funny-her plots are fantastic, the characters are people you want to meet and the settings/background are consistently interesting.<br /> Trojan Gold features Vicky Bliss-an art historian who is, to her chagrin, a beautiful buxom blonde (she wants to be respected for her brains, which are formidable, not her beauty).  Vicky is a curator at a Munich museum where her boss, Schmidt, is an equally renowned art historian (but one who wants to be respected as a great detective-he's more Santa Claus than Sherlock Holmes).  Vicky's sometime lover, &quot;Sir John Smythe,&quot; is equally renowned-as a great art thief.<br /> The three of them come together in a frantic search to find Schleiman's lost treasure, the gold from Troy.  This has been missing since 1945-when it disappeared in the collapse of Berlin.  The search leads Vicky, John and Schmidt to an Alpine village (where they encounter several of Europe's and America's foremost art historians-all searching for the same thing).  Just a note on historical background: the gold went missing in 1945 and it was relocated in the former U.S.S.R. after its collapse (Trojan Gold was written before 1989).  <br /> It's hard to say who is the best character-Vicky, John (who really is every woman's fantasy of the perfect lover) or Schmidt.  The relationship between the three is great (Schmidt is deeply enamored of &quot;Sir John&quot;-whom he does not know is an art thief) and the dialogue will leave you in stitches.  <br /> Do not miss out on this one!  It's truly great-one of the best books Elizabeth Peters has ever written (and that is saying a lot because she is a fantastic writer!).	2003-04-08
US	46254038	R3V4149Q4Q6FDG	1569472556	860742449	The False Inspector Dew	Books	3	1	2	N	N	a fun romp	The False Inspector Dew is a fun quick read.  The characters are wonderfully drawn and while it is true that the plot is not quite as intricate or complex as some reviewers claim, Lovesy tells an interesting story-one you will be able to devour easily in one or two sittings.<br /> The False Inspector Dew focuses on a series of characters-Alma who has fallen madly in love with her dentist and who has persuaded him to kill his rapacious wife; the dentist, Walter Baranov, who is swept up by Alma's passion and agrees to kill his wife at Alma's behest; Jack Gordon, a card shark who has located his mark and intends to fleece him on a boat trip across the Atlantic; Barbara, a wealthy girl whose mother is scheming to marry her off; and a millionaire's son who is conveniently both single and interested in cards.  All of these characters come together when they decide to cross the Atlantic on the Mauritania in 1921.  When a murder occurs, Walter Baranov (who is traveling under a false name so that he can more easily kill his own wife) is called upon to solve the murder.  In the character of Inspector Dew (the man who arrested Dr. Crippen), Baranov acts out the fantasy of every murder mystery lover-he becomes a detective and sets out to solve a real crime.	2003-04-08
US	46254038	R1KM7LRHNA6WXS	0688119190	859380197	White on Black	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wonderful book to give as a baby present	This is one of the few books that I ALWAYS send as a baby present.  It's fantastic---the black and white illustrations are great for a newborn and many of my friends have continued to \\"read\\" the book with their child even when he or she became a toddler.  <br />     Try her other book---which has black images on a white background as well.	2003-04-08
US	46254038	RS4F60I5SAIJU	039586786X	861000459	Sheep in a Jeep	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lots and lots of fun	Talk about clever!  This is a wonderful book---one which will amuse your toddler and one which you will be able to read (and re-read and re-read) without growing bored.<br />     These sheep are wonderful---their adventures (told in Shaw's great rhyming style) are tremendous fun and Apple's illustrations really bring those trouble-ridden sheep to life.<br />     I have bought this book for lots of newborns as a baby present and I can't recommend this highly enough.  Most of my friends (the babies' parents) have told me that they have enjoyed reading the book over and over again---long before their child was old enough to appreciate it.	2003-04-08
US	46254038	RDODKVSSU6O0F	9997403630	602273645	Ammie, Come Home	Books	5	5	7	N	N	the most terrifying ghost story I have ever read	Ammie Come Home is fantastic---a book you won't be able to put down and one which will ensure that you sleep with the lights on for at least a week!<br />    Ruth is a widow living in Georgetown when her college-age niece Sara comes to stay.  Ruth reluctantly agrees to host a dinner party/seance which will feature a famous medium.  Ruth and her guests who include Sara's anthropology professor, Pat, do not believe in ghosts but the seance stirs up old memories in the house.<br />    Sara becomes possessed by the spirit of Ammie---a young girl who lived in the house during the Revolutionary War.  Michael's depiction of Sara---and her possession by Ammie---are done amazingly well.  Ammie is as real a character as Sara and yet the changes which occur in Sara are subtle.<br />    Ammie has taken over Sara for a reason---and Sara, Ruth, Pat and Sara's boyfriend, Bruce, all must work to discover who Ammie is, what she wants and whether they can help her.  <br />     As always, Michaels does a great job.  The characters are real and the absurd situation in which they find themselves also seems surprisingly real.  This is probably what makes the story so chilling---seeing ordinary lives disrupted by the extraordinary.<br />    Buy this!  You will not regret it!	2003-03-31
US	46254038	RN0QQCHIZQ5XF	0765341611	554191539	Three Men in a Boat: To Say Nothing of the Dog (Tor Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hilarious	I read this after reading Connie Willis' To Say Nothing of the Dog (which is sort of a remake of Jerome's book).   I was worried that, after Willis' book which is fantastic, I would be disappointed by Three Men and a Boat but no such thing!<br /> Jerome is hilarious and his characters are wonderfully unselfconscious English eccentrics.  Their journey down the river (taken b/c of poor health-all the characters are hypochondriacs) had me laughing non-stop.   <br /> I can't understand why this book is not better known.  If you are an Anglophile, a history buff or, even just a lover of eccentric characters, this is the book for you.  Buy it, rent a boat and float down the nearest river reading this!  You won't regret it!	2003-03-07
US	46254038	R35F8B1FBMC52O	0375420673	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating look at China today	Ha Jin is one of the best writers in America today.  His stories focus on modern-day China---highlighting daily life and the every-day difficulties for people living under Chinese communism.<BR>        <BR>       I am not a huge fan of short stories but Jin does an incredible job of creating characters whom you come to care about very quickly.  In just a few lines, you get to know each character and see the world through his or her eyes.<br />        The best story in this one is &quot;Saboteur.&quot;  Buy the book for this story if for no other reason!  &quot;Saboteur&quot; deals with the tyranny of petty bureaucrats and the ways in which ordinary people can and do strike back.  The end provides one of the most incredible twists I've ever read.	2003-03-07
US	46254038	R2PF56QM6BL48X	0765302462	135115670	Heresy: A Catherine LeVendeur Mystery	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Good strong mystery but not Newman's best	Sharan Newman is a raritya writer of historical fiction who really knows her history.  While Newman does an amazing job at recreating twelfth-century France, the best part of her books is  that she never cheatsher characters are very much products of medieval society.  Newman never has them endorse modern views just so that the reader will be able to relate to the character.<br /> That said, Heresy is not Newman's best book (but the level she sets is really high so a weak book by Sharan Newman is the equivalent of a great book by other historical murder mystery writers).  I love the characters Newman has created.  Catherine, her heroine, is the daughter of a devout Catholic woman and a Jewish convert.  Rampant anti-Semitism means that  Catherine keeps her Jewish roots hiddenbut she has close ties to her Jewish relatives.  For me, this is one of the most fascinating parts of Newman's worksthe inter-play between the Christian and Jewish worlds of medieval France.<br /> Newman's primary interests tho' are with the range of Christian belief in medieval France and her murder mysteries often deal with heresy, the threat of heresy or heretical groups.  This book is no exceptionthe lead character is the son of Heloise and Abelard.  Suspected of murder after consorting with a group of heretics, Astrolabe is on the run and he turns to Catherine and her family for help.  <br /> The tensions in this mystery were not as strong as they could have been (I was less interested in Astrolabe than I was in the other characters).   If you've read Newman's other books, you'll probably enjoy this one but if you are new to her work, try reading A Difficult Saint or any of her earlier works first.	2003-03-07
US	46254038	R38RZ16019J97G	0060185147	737127896	Courting Trouble	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another strong and well-written thriller from Scottoline	Lisa Scottoline writes some of the best mystery/thrillers around.  Her books are quick, fun and interesting to read.  You won't be sorry you picked this one up.<br /> Courting Trouble focuses on a new recruit to the all-woman law firm of Rosato and Associates.  Anne Murphy seems to have it all-beauty, intelligence, ambition and a bright future.  Her only fatal weakness seems to be a desire for nice clothes and a tendency to put it all on her credit cards (a weakness any woman can understand!).<BR> <BR> Her life is not, however, all that it seems.  She has fled to Philadelphia to escape a stalker and she is entangled in a complicated legal case which is not what it appears to be on the surface.  While taking an unexpected vacation, she opens the paper and discovers that a young woman, believed to be herself, has been killed in her apartment.  With the help of Bennie, Mary and Judy (her boss and fellow associates), Anne decides to remain \\"dead\\" in an attempt to smoke out her killer.  This is where the book really comes together.  Scottoline really understands women's relationships-while all four women become close in the course of the investigation, they remain very different people, driven by different motives and characterized by both affection and jealousy for each other.<br /> Scottoline's works aren't just about interesting characters and relationships though.  She also does an outstanding job at creating and maintaining suspense.  It is never clear until the very last pages of her book who the killer is and why he or she has committed murder.  There aren't many writers who can maintain this kind of suspense right up to the very end.<br /> Don't miss out on this or any of Scottoline's other works.	2003-02-12
US	46254038	R3R5TMKXTPF2A	0553583158	905302949	Legacy of the Dead (Inspector Ian Rutledge)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good strong and well-written mystery	Todd has written another provocative and well-written mystery-one which will keep you interested until the end.<BR>  <BR> Ian Rutledge, a shell-shocked veteran from World War I, is called upon to investigate the mysterious events in a Scottish village.  A young woman has been accused of murder and kidnaping a child.  The accusations begin with a series of anonymous letters and quickly escalate as bodies are discovered and it becomes clear that the child the woman claims is her son cannot possibly be her own.<br /> This story is given an extra twist-Rutledge is haunted by the ever-constant presence of his former, corporal Hamish Macleod, who died under his orders during the war.  The young woman accused of murder and kidnaping is Hamish's fiancee.  Solving the mystery may, or so the reader hopes, help Rutledge deal with his own guilt over Hamish's death and his-Rutledge's-survival.<br /> My only complaint with this series is a minor one-Hamish is sometimes too stereotypically Scottish.  He constantly speaks in dialect (interestingly enough, Todd's other Scottish characters do not speak in dialect) and he seems at times to veer on a stage version of a Scotsman.  This may be intentional on Todd's part (after all, Hamish is a part of Rutledge's memory-and as such he isn't real) but it can get annoying after a while.  <br /> That said, I still recommend the book strongly.  You won't be sorry you read it.	2003-02-12
US	46254038	R1B486ZV2F83YR	0553580515	417245650	Passage	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Incredibly original	Passages is the fourth Connie Willis book I've read---the more I read of her work, the more impressed I become.  Unlike To Say Nothing of the Dog or Bellwether, Passages is very serious (much more similar to The Doomsday Book).<br />       Johanna is a cognitive psychologist who teams up with a neurologist to invesitage near death experiences.  I'm not a fan of New Age things or discussions of near death experiences and so the premise of the book did put me off reading it for a while.  But because I have liked Willis so much I gave the book a chance and I'm very glad I did so.  It is excellent---it avoids all of that syrupy silliness which usually characterizes books about near death experiences or even sudden death (and thankfully it also avoids the gushy hysteria which often characterizes novels set in hospitals and ERs).<br />      Johanna's experience as she delves into death is fascinating---it's very rare to read a book and not be able to guess at what will come next but Willis manages to pull it off. So while it is true that the book can be, at times, rather wordy, I was never really tempted to put it down.  In fact I began it on the metro ride to work and had a difficult day focusing on my job I was so tempted to sneak off and read!<BR>   <BR>     This is not for the weak of heart but I strongly recommend it!	2003-02-11
US	46254038	RPQG3ONLZJX15	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A lot of fun!	Connie Willis rarely ever disappoints and this book is one of her funniest---light, clever and a quick read.  Save an evening to read this as you won't want to put it down once you've started it.<br />     In Bellwether, Willis brings together a sociologist studying fads and a chaos theorist (who seems immune to fads).  Both work for a nameless faceless corporation which seems to thrive on chaos itself---even as it searches for a way to control and manipulate its workers.<br />     The main characters are wonderful as always (as always, Willis has created a wonderful heroine---a mix of savvy and naivity).  But it is her minor characters who keep you laughing--Flip, the assistant who makes everyone's lives a nightmare, the mothers at a birthday party for pre-schoolers who are driven by discipline fads, and even the faceless and nameless Management.  <br />      Don't miss out on this!	2003-02-11
US	46254038	RCUN6KK1KO15O	0399147853	952360082	Time and Chance	Books	2	24	26	N	N	Disappointing---not as good as her other books	Sharon Penman has written some of the best historical fiction out there.  Unfortunately, this book isn't up to her usually high standard.<br />    The book is a sequel to When Christ and His Saints Slept and deals with Henry II and Eleanor of Aquitaine (always a great subject for historical fiction).  Penman does a good job of bringing her characters to life but somehow the plot doesn't really work and, much to my surprise, I had a difficult time finishing this book.  <br />     One of the greatest weaknesses of the book was her focus on her own fictional characters, Ranulf (Henry's uncle) and his blind Welsh wife, Rhiannon.  Ranulf's story of divided loyalties (is he Welsh or Norman?) should make for a great story but Penman never manages to create and maintain this tension.  In fact, Ranulf and Rhiannon's story became less interesting to me as I read on in the book.<br />      The book would have been more interesting (at least to me!) if she had focused on Eleanor and Henry---and their incredible relationship.  Even if she had focused solely on Henry's political ambitions and struggles the book would have been a better read.  <br />       Buy this if you are a serious Penman fan but otherwise give it a miss and read her other books instead (esp. The Sunne in Splendor).	2003-02-11
US	46254038	R1OAX9KFDUR9K7	0684849046	754969196	The Deadhouse	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Interesting plot but not much else	As is standard with Fairstein novels, The Deadhouse has an interesting plot/mystery but Fairstein's poor writing detracts from the novel.  Read this for the mystery-but don't expect anything else.<br /> The main focus of The Deadhouse revolves around the murder of a professor, Lola Dakota.   Setting this in academia could have provided Fairstein with a lot to write about and rich characters to explore.  Unfortunately (and I say this as a former academic), Fairstein seems to be completely clueless about how universities really function-and how divided academic disciplines are.  Even at an experimental school, very few professors work across disciplines.  As a medical historian, I was also insulted by Fairstein's bizarre assumption that an archeological dig would include a political scientist and a biologist.  Historians and anthropologists would slit their throats before they allowed people with such different approaches to walk near an archeological site.  Academic politics are characterized by a surreal number of turf battles (ironically, these battles-among people who essentially do the same thing-would have provided a much more interesting backdrop for the novel).<br /> Along the way, various different sex crimes occur and one gets a glimpse into the problems and issues which confront D.A.s working on sex crimes.  This is always the most interesting part of Fairstein's novels and I would have preferred it if she followed several of these stories all the way through.<br /> I also have a peeve with Alexandra.  She is perfect-perfectly bland-and I find myself annoyed by the fact that Fairstein always likes to keep her at the \\"perfect\\" age for a single woman-36.  Why can't she age?  Why is she always virtuously eating salads?  Why does Jake like her?  There is nothing real about this woman.  She's a piece of cardboard.  The other characters are poorly developed as well (including Lola-she's a non-academic's silly idea of what a maverick academic is).<br /> Read thisfor the mystery-which is, as always, interesting but if you are looking for characters to care about, skip this one.	2002-11-22
US	46254038	R3TS0NK1PD7A1G	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Fantastic!	I read this book in one sitting.  It's extremely lively, well-written and a great deal of fun---and it makes you think!  I'm actually an historian and I'll confess---very few historians write history as well as Horowitz does and very few will ever have the impact he has had.  At countless academic conferences, I have heard historians mumbling jealously about this book---all of them envy it and wish they had written it.<br />    Despite being a deep-dyed-in-wool Yankee (or maybe because I am a Yankee), I thought this book did a fantastic job at explaining who we are as Americans and why we have had such a difficult time escaping from the legacy of the Civil War.  While the book is very funny (I loved the stories of the Civil War re-enactors---esp. the ones who practice the &quot;bloat&quot; of malnutrition), it is also rather depressing.  As long as Americans (both those north and south of the Mason-Dixon line) cling to this silly idea of a &quot;grand old South&quot; complete with Tara, gallant Confederates and so on, we will never really be able to deal with our racial problems.  <br />      Horowitz's visit to a school where he discovered that the children knew nothing abt their past but clung to the old prejudices anyway was something I will never forget.   It does an incredible job of illustrating how the historical myth often becomes more important than the reality.<br />      My one great hope is that the popularity of the book may cause people to re-think all of those cherished and silly myths we have about the South.  Let's face it, guys, Ashley Wilkes was a slave holder.  Not exactly the qualifications I look for when assigning the role of gentleman!	2002-11-20
US	46254038	R16SQAX93GRGLQ	1560233591	492962073	Lytton Strachey and the Search for Modern Sexual Identity: The Last Eminent Victorian (Haworth Gay & Lesbian Studies)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wow!  A great read!	I had never really known much about Lytton Strachey before reading Taddeo's book.  I ordered this on a whim and loved it---I've just ordered Strachey's Eminent Victorians after reading this.<br />     Taddeo writes really well---the book moves quickly and I was fascinated by Taddeo's analysis and discussion of Strachey's sexuality.  What I liked most about this book (and I can't say this enough!) was its readability.  This is a book for scholars and non-specialists. <br />     If you've read any of the books by the Bloomsbury group or if you love the Victorians, buy this book (actually you should buy it and read it no matter what!).	2002-11-20
US	46254038	RD9R4Z5HENQT7	0195035003	406783469	Dry Tears: The Story of a Lost Childhood	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Fascinating and deeply moving	Dry Tears is an unforgettable Holocaust memoir and coming-of age story.  Tec is a gifted writer and her comments about her experiences are deeply insightful.<br />     Tec was hidden during the war---disguised as a Polish Christian, she lived with a variety of families before settling with a working-class family who also took in her parents (neither of whom spoke Polish well enough to \\"pass\\") and her sister.<br />     What is most interesting (and depressing) about Tec's story is her slow realization that the family who took her in was anti-semetic.  As a child, she experiences deep confusion about this and wonders how she should feel when the family compliments her by telling her that she is not \\"like a Jew.\\"  Her conflicted feelings about this family (she grows to love and respect them while at the same time being appalled by their prejudice) illustrate one of the greatest paradoxes regarding prejudices (***).  The sad truth is that when one looks behind the stereotype one always discovers individuals who defy the stereotype (Tec herself experiences this---she assumes that one of the woman who takes them in---Stella--is a typically stupid and lazy member of the working class but when Stella is tortured by the Nazis and refuses to eveal any information, Tec is forced to look beyond the stereotype todiscover a very real and very complicated individual).<br />     Tec's story also explores an aspect often not found in books dealing with adults under the Holocaust.  As a hidden child who could \\"pass\\" as a Polish Christian, Tec spent her days as Krysia, a Polish Gentile.  Not surprisingly, this caused her to become deeply confused about who she was---like all pre-teens and adolescents, Tec was struggling to discover her own identity but unlike her peers, Tec was forced to hide this identity.<br /> I have read a great number of Holocaust memoirs---and this is not the \\"typical\\" memoir (as far as one can say there is a \\"typical\\" memoir).  Several factors make this book unique---Tec's age at the time of the Holocaust, her insights into her own experiences (not surprising as Tec later became a scholar specializing in this period) and her openness about her struggle to assume an identity at a time when she was forbidden to assume her true identity.	2002-11-20
US	46254038	R1N7H7NU9OPHDU	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great fun!	This is a fun and very quick read (you probably won't be able to put it down---I found myself sneaking glimpses of it while stuck in traffic).<br />    Ned Henry is a time traveler who thinks he knows what his mission is...to locate the bishop's bird stump in Coventry Cathedral right before the raid which destroyed the cathedral.  But, as it quickly becomes clear, the search for the bishop's bird stump isn't really Ned's mission---altho' just what Ned's mission is is never clear.<br />    After returning to the future without the bishop's bird stump, Ned is sent back into the past yet again.  But this time he's wandering (quite literally) around the Victorian era---searching for a lost cat and trying to ensure that the proper Victorian miss, Tossie, meets the right man on the right date.  Problem is Ned doesn't know what the right date is or who the right man is.  Adding to all the confusion are proper (or improper?) butlers, eccentric Oxford dons, spiritualists, lovesick undergraduates, apoplectic colonels, scheming matrons...and one very interesting young woman who hails from Ned's time as well.<br />Sound confusing?  It is!  But it's a wonderful tangle---if you have ever read Victorian novels, murder mysteries or even just visited Britain, this is a book you'll really enjoy!	2002-11-20
US	46254038	R2G0M30ILIQ6TT	0385483732	804022738	Foreign Correspondence: A Pen Pal's Journey from Down Under to All Over	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Not as wonderful as her other books	I have read several of Brooks' books (both her non-fiction and fiction) and I was excited to rec'e and read Foreign Correspondance.  Unfortunately, I was deeply disappointed.  <br />     The book has an outstanding premise---as a child growing up in Australia during the 1960s, Brooks was eager to experience the outside world.  An avid letter writer, she found pen-pals in the U.S., Israel and France.  As an adult, Brooks set off to meet and re-discover these people.  So far so good.  But the book peters out---with the exception of the American pen-pal (to whom she was closest), the characters lack enough detail to be interesting.  <br />    Her meeting with her French pen-pal was especially disappointing.  This was a girl who chose to remain in her native village (while Brooks became a world-traveler and global correspondant).  I hoped for more insights and more discussion of the contrast and why they chose such radically different paths---despite coming from somewhat similar backgrounds (Brooks saw herself as living in a giant provincial village---the village of Australia).  But there was little discussion and the meeting simply sounded painful.  Her trip to Israel to meet her non-Jewish Israeli pen-pal would also have benefitted from a deeper discussion about one's choices and opportunities (there was some discussion of this but I wanted to know more).<br />     Had I not read Brooks' other books, I probably would have thought this was a fairly good book.  But I know she can write such a better book!	2002-11-20
US	46254038	R1CU97HO2DFXDH	0312421265	101663882	The Good German	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Outstanding!	The Good German is a rarity---a thinking person's thriller.  The characters are extremely well-developed, the moral issues raised by the story (and setting) are really thought-provoking and the plot is fascinating.<BR>     Jake, an American journalist, returns to Berlin in 1945 to search for the married woman with whom he had an affair before being forced to leave Berlin.  While Jake manages to find Lena, his attempts to persuade her to join him become hopelessly convoluted when she insists on finding and notifying her husband of her decision to leave him.  Lena's husband, it turns out, was a rocket scientist/mathematician who worked for the Nazis and who is now the target of a concentrated search by both the Russians and Americans (who want not to try her husband but rather to exploit his knowledge of weapons and missles).  <BR>     While Russian and American intelligence are courting former Nazi scientists, Nazi and Nazi sympathizers who lack valuable knowledge are being systematically put on trial by both the Russians and Americans.  The parallel story of Renate, a Jewish Berliner who worked for the Nazis as a \\"catcher\\" (someone who identified and caught Jews for the Nazis while under threat of death) presents an incredible counterpoint to the story of Lena's husband. <BR>     This is not a book which you can easily put down---the writing is great and the story moves along quickly.  But it is the issues or moral responsibility which will remain with you long after you have finished the book.  You won't regret buying this book!	2002-11-14
US	46254038	R2AQEHC798RARH	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Fun and interesting read	Willis' book---which deals with time travel and the recurring theme of plagues in societies---is well-written and a generally interesting read.<br />      Kirvin is an historian specializing in the Middle Ages.  Living as she does in a period when historians can and do travel to the periods which they study, Kirvin requests permission to travel to the Middle Ages---a period rated as highly dangerous and generally forbidden to time travelers.  She ultimately receives reluctant permission to travel to the past---specifically the period just before the Black Death of 1348.  As is to be expected, problems occur with the \\"drop\\" and Kirvin winds up in a small village just as the Black Death appears.  Meanwhile, back in her own time period, a dangerous and devastating epidemic breaks out.  <br />      As a medical historian, I was really drawn to this book.  There are a few minor errors in the book (most dramatically in Willis' complete lack of knowledge regarding the diseases which were common in medieval Europe---these were plentiful but they were not cholera, smallpox etc.).  But this is a minor quiblle (and probably stems from the fact that I know way too much abt medical history!).  <br />     The real heart of the book is Willis' depiction of societies beset by unknown and killer plagues.  The medieval part of the story is really well-written---the characters were fascinating and their plight seemed incredibly real (the modern part of the story isn't half as interesting).  I found myself flipping over the modern sections of the book to get to the medieval story---this story had incredible drama and Kirvin's reactions to the plight of the villagers (even her reactions to their daily life) were fascinating.  <BR>     Despite the weakness of the modern section, I would still recommend this book.	2002-11-14
US	46254038	RUAN18FALX0BU	0785727078	809918350	Saint Maybe (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wonderful and insightful	Anne Tyler is, I think, one of the best American writers working today.  She does an amazing job of showing the internal and secret lives of ordinary people (or people who simply appear to be ordinary as they are our neighbors, our friends and our co-workers).<BR>      Ian, the hero of Saint Maybe, is one of Tyler's best creations ever.  When his older brother dies, the adolescent Ian takes on the care of three children---all of whom are unrelated to him (altho' there is a slightly possibility that the youngest child is his niece).  The story follows Ian's attempts to raise the children---but also to find out who he really is.  <BR>       Tyler's writing is lyrical and the characters are memorable and very real.  There is something in Ian's search which has parallels in everyone's search to discover who they are and what they think is important.<BR>       I can't recommend this highly enough!	2002-11-14
US	46254038	R2GTOWLXF335E3	0590472801	639734249	Something From Nothing	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Enchanting!	There are many versions of this story in print (it is a classic Yiddish story) but Gilman's version is far and away the best.<BR>    Joseph, a wonderfully drawn character, receives a beautiful blanket from his grandfather.  As he ages, the blanket is transformed into a jacket, a vest, a scarf etc.  <BR>    The prose is very well-done and very lively with lots of repetition which will please children and their parents.  The illustrations, however, really make this book.  They are fantastic!  The world of the shtetl really comes to life in these detailed drawings (in fact, living in a shtetl actually looks pretty good which is an amazing accomplishment!).<BR>     I have given this book to friends and family---both Jewish and non-Jewish and everyone has loved it.  Buy it, find a blanket and curl up with a child to read this one!	2002-11-14
US	46254038	R3VCR6NYXN3V61	0449910067	661337944	The Oracle Glass: A Novel	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Yet another wonderful book from Judith Merkle Riley	Judith Merkle Riley is one of the best writerrs of historical fiction working today. <BR> As an historian, I am always impressed by Riley's ability to recreate the feeling of a period. The Oracle Glass does a wonderful job of re-creating the world of seventeenth-century Paris where magic and science were uneasy bedfellows.<BR> <br />The story focuses on Genevieve, a young girl who pretends to be an aged crone (very aged---she admits to being well over a 100!). Genevieve works for the famed witch, Catherine Montvoisin but she is also a follower of the new philosophy (science). <BR> Underneath the persona of an aged wise woman and fortune teller, Genevieve remains a young girl. And like all young girls, she is in love---first with a conceited fop and then, finally (!) with a man who is her intellectual equal and who loves her more than he loves himself.<BR> <br />This is the kind of book which you will love to read late at night (preferably a cold winter's night). There is a touch of the supernatural in the story---but it is Riley's mastry of the romance novel which really makes this book great reading for late at night!	2002-11-14
US	46254038	R2ANUNW34H8MK	0345448898	731430286	His Dark Materials Trilogy: The Golden Compass / The Subtle Knife / The Amber Spyglass	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Amazing and Incredibly Original	Pullman is one of the most gifted fantasy writers of the 20th century.  Unlike Tolkein whose focus on creating a world causes him to neglect plot and characterization, Pullman creates an elaborate world (universe), tells an amazingly original story and develops wonderful characters (esp. Will who first appears in book 2).  <BR> <BR>As an historian whose work focuses on Calvinism, I was especially impressed by Pullman's creation---a world in which the Calvinist Reformation succeeded (what a scary place that would have been!). Many critics claim Pullman's work is anti-Christian but it is more of an attack against clerical institutions than an attack against religious belief per se (and ironically, the rebellion which Lyra, her father and Will stage and participate in establishes an alternative religion---that is a world without a God but which has an afterlife---if only b/c it claims that there is no afterlife).  <br />The details in this story are fantastic.  I loved the idea of a world where one's soul is visible and takes on the attributes of the character (I esp. liked the fact that one's daemon assumes a permanent form in puberty).  <br />Lyra is a wonderful character---no, she is not likeable but frankly, her likeability is irrelevant.  What is key is her mission (here Pullman seems to cheat a little---he denies the idea of Calvinist predestination but Lyra's fate is, to some degree, pre-determined).  <br />This book is not intended for young children.  I would recommend it to 14 and 15 year olds---and even then you should be fairly well-read if you want to grasp all of the subtle nuances of the book.  That said, I strongly recommend the book to adolescent girls.  Lyra is a great role model for young girls (her bravery, her intelligence and even her conviction that she is right are characteristics which young girls need to recognize are acceptable and even valuable).	2002-09-27
US	46254038	R3W3O6EVOGY7ZF	0452274303	663337946	Price of Honor: Muslim Women Lift the Veil of Silence on the Islamic World	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Provactive	This book was extremely interesting and very provocative.  Goodwin writes well and the stories she recounts are fascinating. The primary weakness of the book is its focus on upper-class women as opposed to women from the working-class but the book is still well worth a read.<br /> I'm surprised to see so many reviewers criticize Goodwin for being anti-Islamic or even wrong.  The book is not at all a criticism of Islam-in fact, Goodwin goes out of her way to show the differences between fundamentalism and more traditional forms of Islam (which she argues is extremely liberal in its view of women and their rights).  Through a discussion of the legal codes imposed by fundamentalists as well as the coercive tactics used by the Islamicists, Goodwin demonstrates that it is fundamentalism, not Islam, which strips women of their rights (and she points to the dangers of Jewish and Christian fundamentalism in this regard as well).<br /> Critics who claim that the stories Goodwin recounts are not typical would do well to think about the laws in places like Saudi Arabia.  It is a fact that women there are forbidden to drive,  forbidden to mingle freely with men, forbidden to dress as they please, forbidden to leave the country without male permission etc.-these are the laws and if you think women are pleased by these laws, ask yourself if you would really like to live under these conditions yourself.  Critics would also do well to remember that human rights organizations (including Arab groups) have pointed out that the Arab world's backwardness is, in part, a result of their treatment of women (by denying women education and the right to work, these countries handicap themselves by using only half of their potential).  <br /> Many people have pointed out that one of the primary causes for the rise of fundamentalism is the extreme poverty of the Middle East-how ironic to realize that fundamentalism will lead to even greater poverty in the future by denying half the workforce the right to an education and the right to work.	2002-09-18
US	46254038	R61LUD2G4OECN	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Should be required reading for politicians everywhere	Brooks has written an engaging, informative and lively book abt Islamic women.  She crosses class and ethnic boundaries to interview women throughout the Middle East (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Egypt, Iraq, Israel/Palestine, Jordan).  My only minor complaint is that she confines herself to the Middle East---as she argues that Saudi Arabian culture has spread and changed the Islamic world throughout the Middle East I wanted to know what was happening in the Islamic world outside of the Middle East (Indonesia, the former Soviet Republics, Africa etc).  <BR> <BR>That said, I would still recommend this book highly.  Brooks' interviews with women---especially those who opted to wear the  hijab and to advocate a restricted life for women in the name of radical/revolutionary Islam---are deeply insightful.  I found the picture she painted of the Middle East incredibly tragic.  This is a region where oppression of women is rampant.  As Brooks herself points out if half of the male citizens of any country were denied their basic human rights, frequently subjected to genital mutilation or death after being raped, there would be an outcry throughout the world.  But because we are talking abt Islamic women (many of whom live in oil-rich countries) there has been a reluctance on the part of the US and other industrialized nations to criticize the Middle East.<br />Brooks' book is not a flat-out criticism of Islam---in fact, she shows through a discussion of 7th century Islamic beliefs and culture that Islam has the potential to create a world where women truly are equal to men and where women and men can enjoy the same rights and privileges.  In many ways, Christianity and Judaism lack this potential and so Brooks' insight is especially interesting.<br />This book should be read by politicians everywhere---not just women.  Anyone who cares about human rights will benefit from reading this book.	2002-09-11
US	46254038	R1I511TOJ72RLA	1566633052	503401688	Sexual Liberation or Sexual License?: The American Revolt Against Victorianism (American Ways Series)	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Troubling and Misleading	White has picked an interesting subject (twentieth-century American sexuality) but his insights and comments are deeply troubling.  White clearly has an agenda and while all good historians have an agenda, White's views are especially worrisome as he often ignores and manipulates evidence to reflect his own views.  <br /> Of particular concern is White's over-arching view of Victorianism.  In an early chapter, White claims that  \\"Victorianism worked. Rates of divorce and illegitimacy remained low.\\"   An interesting comment but one which is not at all supported by any evidence which White provides.   Low rates of divorce and illegitimacy are not evidence of happiness and/or lack of sexual license. My understanding---drawn from British material---is that abortions were frighteningly common during the late nineteenth century and that varying forms of birth control were becoming more widely available (rates of illegitimacy are thus a dicey monitor to use to assess whether Victorians lived by their own sexual standards).  Also, as any historian can tell you---divorce was uncommon simply b/c it was extraordinarily difficult to obtain.  The absence of divorce in a society (esp. one where death rates sharply curtailed the length of marriages anyway) should not be read as evidence of high social/sexual standards and/or contentment with these standards. <br /> My greatest complaint, however, is White's clear difficulty with the idea that women can assume positions other than passivity as far as sex is concerned.  White is dismissive of the concept of date rape and he quotes Robert BORK to support the idea that concern abt date rape has been overdrawn (oddly enough just because a woman agrees to be kissed or fondled does NOT mean she is willing to have sex---and the same is true of men-it is not extraordinary for young women and young men to want to give their consent to sexual acts).     <br /> White also seems dismissive of the idea that greater sexual freedom brought any type of happiness or pleasure to men or women. He cites comments from bohemians who decided that they preferred non-intellectual women but ignores the great intellectual bohemian relationships of the period completely.   <br />          What kind of an historian ignores evidence?  Not a very good one, I'm afraid.  Give this book a miss.	2002-09-05
US	46254038	R12VZ0VYXR70QR	0060295295	197185550	Monsieur Eek	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful fun!	This is a book which will make you laugh out loud (or at least chuckle softly!).  It's marvelous.<br />     When a shipwreck occurs on their shore, the townspeople of a small isolated village are forced to deal with their fear of strangers...specifically their fear of the especially evil and vile French.  The townspeople---including such wonderful characters as Bob the Milkmaid and Kawasaki the Left-Handed Farmer---become divided as the trial of the mysterious Frenchman, Monsieur Eek, looms.  Will Monsier Eek be found guilty of not only stealing the town's prized possessions but also of being French (a truly heinous crime)?<br />     Don't miss out on this one!	2002-08-28
US	46254038	R1B64AI886F2CJ	0440501091	793903659	A Vision of Light (Margaret of Ashbury)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Whimsical and fun	I love curling up with this book on a cold winter's night.  It's the ultimate comfort food.<br />        Margaret Kendall, Riley's heroine, is a wonderful creation.  She is smart, clever, earnest in her desire to help others and gifted as a healer...all of which means that she will have a difficult time in medieval England.  Her life story--as she progresses from a village girl to London midwife to merchant's wife---makes for wonderful reading.<br />        It's a rare author who can tell a story like Margaret's without becoming overly sentimental---but Judith Merkle Riley is a gited writer who manages to bring the most fantastic characters to life without ever hitting a wrong note.<br />     My only complaint abt the book is that Riley doesn't focus enough of the marriage of Roger Kendall and Margaret---Kendall is, I think, the perfect match for Margaret and the real hero of the novel.  He is one of the only characters who truly sees Margaret as she is and cherishes her.  I know---most readers would undoubtedly prefer Brother Gregory (or Gilbert) as the hero but Margaret and Kendall's match and marriage seem to be the stuff of romantic dreams.	2002-08-23
US	46254038	RQF7293WC3FFU	0140250913	753226033	The Coming Plague: Newly Emerging Diseases in a World Out of Balance	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Terrifying	Whether you are interested in public health or not, this book is a must-read.  Garrett does an amazing job detailing the emergence of new diseases, their impact and the reactions of public health officials.<BR>    <BR>    Garrett's writing is fast-paced and the stories she tells are fascinating.  Her ability to convey character is such that you will feel as tho' you personally know the epidemiologists whose stories she tells.  In fact, you will wish that you did know them---if only so that you could call them up and ask for reassurances!  <br />     The book has a few minor errors but these errors are insignificant in the greater scheme of things.  What is important is that Garrett is finally telling the general public what epidemiologists and health professionals have known for the last two decades and that is: the war against infectious diseases is far from over---in fact, it will never be over.  A chilling message but one which needs to be said as most Americans are highly complaisant about the threats posed by disease.	2002-08-06
US	46254038	R1GFRAYVNBS932	0894809393	597082218	To Marry an English Lord or, How Anglomania Really Got Started	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Tremendous Fun!	If you have ever imagined yourself married to a duke or even just an earl, this is the book for you!  It's wonderful.  Jarret does a fantastic job inter-weaving the true stories of America's dollar princesses and the general how-to's of marrying into nobility.  <BR>    <BR>    As a professional historian, I was impressed by the research which Jarrett put into the book (I can't help but wonder if it began life as a dissertation---if so, Jarrett did a great job making her subject accessible to general readers).	2002-08-06
US	46254038	RFVKTT7BL1Z9F	015202073X	130194094	Knight's Castle	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the best children's books ever written!	I first read Eager's books as a child and I have been reading them on and off for the last twenty-five years (I keep a complete collection in my bedroom and I read them whenever I want a good laugh).<br />     Eager writes on two levels--there is something in this (and all of his books) for both children and adults.  As a kid, I loved Roger, Ann, Eliza and Jack because they aren't perfect and because they have their own squabbles and flaws.  As an adult, I find them refreshing in their honesty---Eliza, especially, always lets you know how she feels!<br />      The story is wonderful and begins with the scenario of all great children's books (missing or distracted parents).  Roger and Ann's father requires emergency surgery and the family travels east to Baltimore for the operation.  A visit to Aunt Katherine's is to be dreaded b/c of cousins Jack and Eliza (as Ann puts it \\"Jack and Eliza---help!).  Jack is camera-obsessed while Eliza was the bossiest nine year old on the block before she moved to Baltimore.<br />     But...a magical gift from Uncle Mark brings the cousins together.  A castle complete with all the characters from Ivanhoe comes magically alive every three nights and Jack, Eliza, Ann and Roger are soon embarked on a variety of quests.  Somehow tho' nothing seems to work out quite as Roger, Jack, Eliza and Ann plan---Ivanhoe is nearly captured when Roger spills the beans about his hidden presence in the castle, an attempt to modernize 'ye merrie England' results in Ivanhoe's experimenting with space travel and so on.  Gradually, Roger realizes that he needs to perform a great deed if he is to help his father recover and he, Ann, Jack and Eliza draw on their own inner strengths to perform the necessary quest and save chivalry for ever.<br />    Don't miss out on this book!  Half Magic, Magic By the Lake (which deal with Roger and Ann's mom and her siblings) and The Time Garden (which features Jack, Eliza, Ann and Roger) are among the best children's books written this century.  I won't compare them to the Harry Potter books (equally great!) but I will say that if you loved Harry Potter, you will love Edward Eager.	2002-07-31
US	46254038	R3ABM1QRROWRME	015202073X	130194094	Knight's Castle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the best children's books ever written!	I first read Eager's books as a child and I have been reading them on and off for the last twenty-five years (I keep a complete collection in my bedroom and I read them whenever I want a good laugh).<br />     Eager writes on two levels--there is something in this (and all of his books) for both children and adults.  As a kid, I loved Roger, Ann, Eliza and Jack because they aren't perfect and because they have their own squabbles and flaws.  As an adult, I find them refreshing in their honesty---Eliza, especially, always lets you know how she feels!<br />      The story is wonderful and begins with the scenario of all great children's books (missing or distracted parents).  Roger and Ann's father requires emergency surgery and the family travels east to Baltimore for the operation.  A visit to Aunt Katherine's is to be dreaded b/c of cousins Jack and Eliza (as Ann puts it \\"Jack and Eliza---help!).  Jack is camera-obsessed while Eliza was the bossiest nine year old on the block before she moved to Baltimore.<br />     But...a magical gift from Uncle Mark brings the cousins together.  A castle complete with all the characters from Ivanhoe comes magically alive every three nights and Jack, Eliza, Ann and Roger are soon embarked on a variety of quests.  Somehow tho' nothing seems to work out quite as Roger, Jack, Eliza and Ann plan---Ivanhoe is nearly captured when Roger spills the beans about his hidden presence in the castle, an attempt to modernize 'ye merrie England' results in Ivanhoe's experimenting with space travel and so on.  Gradually, Roger realizes that he needs to perform a great deed if he is to help his father recover and he, Ann, Jack and Eliza draw on their own inner strengths to perform the necessary quest and save chivalry for ever.<br />    Don't miss out on this book!  Half Magic, Magic By the Lake (which deal with Roger and Ann's mom and her siblings) and The Time Garden (which features Jack, Eliza, Ann and Roger) are among the best children's books written this century.  I won't compare them to the Harry Potter books (equally great!) but I will say that if you loved Harry Potter, you will love Edward Eager.	2002-07-31
US	46254038	R3GYUSNYN7F3UF	0152020683	28356414	Half Magic	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fantastic---funny and brilliant!	I read all of Edward Eager's books when I was a child and I have been reading them at least once a year ever since.  If you haven't read any of them, start with Half Magic.<br />     Four children---Jane, Mark, Katherine and Martha---find a magic nickel.  The nickel gives the wisher only half of what he or she wishes for---which means that every magic adventure always turns out a little odd (even after the children have realized that they have to wish for twice of everything).<br />     The characters are fantastic.  I come from a family which has the exact same structure (girl, boy, girl, girl) as the children in Half Magic and I always saw my older sisters and brother in Jane (bossy), Katherine (\\"docile and a comfort to their mother\\"---which she brags about!) and Mark (the only boy who gets to lead a wonderful life as the only boy!).  I'm sure my siblings also saw me in Martha (stubborn and with a wild streak!).  Even if you don't come from a family like Martha's, you will recognize the characters immediately.<br />      I can't recommend this highly enough.  If you haven't read it, order it immediately (or at least run to the library to check it out---but you'll want to own this so you can read and re-read it again and again).	2002-07-31
US	46254038	R33EG08PJ4WGD4	0152020683	28356414	Half Magic	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic---funny and brilliant!	I read all of Edward Eager's books when I was a child and I have been reading them at least once a year ever since.  If you haven't read any of them, start with Half Magic.<br />     Four children---Jane, Mark, Katherine and Martha---find a magic nickel.  The nickel gives the wisher only half of what he or she wishes for---which means that every magic adventure always turns out a little odd (even after the children have realized that they have to wish for twice of everything).<br />     The characters are fantastic.  I come from a family which has the exact same structure (girl, boy, girl, girl) as the children in Half Magic and I always saw my older sisters and brother in Jane (bossy), Katherine (\\"docile and a comfort to their mother\\"---which she brags about!) and Mark (the only boy who gets to lead a wonderful life as the only boy!).  I'm sure my siblings also saw me in Martha (stubborn and with a wild streak!).  Even if you don't come from a family like Martha's, you will recognize the characters immediately.<br />      I can't recommend this highly enough.  If you haven't read it, order it immediately (or at least run to the library to check it out---but you'll want to own this so you can read and re-read it again and again).	2002-07-31
US	46254038	R263NWG2YDVBVI	0374524475	883499378	Aristocrats: Caroline, Emily, Louisa, and Sarah Lennox, 1740-1832	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderfully written history for the general reader	Stella Tillyard does an amazing job bringing the Lennox sisters to life.  I felt as though I knew each sister quite well once I had finished the book---and I only wished I could have spent even more time with them.<BR>     Sarah Lennox's story was undoubtedly the most interesting (early on she was tapped as a possible wife for George III, she then fell into an unhappy marriage, embarked on a scandalous affair, was divorced, and then ultimately found happiness with a man who came from a social background beneath hers).  Lennox's comment that &quot;she only knew true happiness after the age of 36&quot; was especially poignant after reading abt her privileged upbringing.  Despite her unhappiness, Lennox managed to live life to the fullest.<BR>     In fact, all of the sisters managed to live life to the fullest---from Caroline who eloped with the radical Henry Fox to Emily who passed through all of the stages of marriage (from happiness to dissatisfaction which ultimately caused her to have an affair).  <BR>     I can't recommend this book too highly---my only regret after reading it was that I would never be able to meet and hang out with any of the Lennox sisters!	2002-07-25
US	46254038	RE1ZHQRK6NKPH	0140138196	337104922	English Society in the Eighteenth Century, Second Edition (The Penguin Social History of Britain)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	History at its best!	Interesting and thought-provoking.<BR>    As always, Roy Porter has written a wonderful book---of use to both the general reader and the specialist.  The book is filled with wonderful characters, fascinating facts and, of course, Porter's insightful analysis.<BR>    Porter once commented that he met a student reading this book on a train.  When he asked the student (who did not know who he was) what he thought of the book, the student replied that it was boring (Porter thought this story was hilarious).  I have to wonder what planet the student was on!  This is the kind of book you only wished your professors had assigned!	2002-07-25
US	46254038	R1IET3IZCM6BM8	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unique	This book is unlike any other children's book I've ever read.  The plot and the characters draw you in---you'll find yourself reading this in one sitting.<BR>      You can actually feel the heat in Camp Green Lake and the thirst you get from digging holes all day in the hot sun.  The characters are incredibly distinct and you discover, as Stanley does, how you can never really depend on anyone else (and yet how we all need one another).  There are no light moments in this book but it's not a depressing book.  <BR>       Buy it and you won't regret it!	2002-07-19
US	46254038	R2N25SC328P35Q	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	1	21	40	N	N	Dreadful--deserves a negative star rating!	I read this book after being told that it was a wonderful feminist story (I'm a women's studies professor).  Please!  It was dreadful---so poorly written that I could not bring myself to finish it.<BR>    I also found myself incredibly annoyed with Diamant's obsession with menstruation and birthing (and I say this as a specialist in the history of gynecology!).  Diamant seems to feel that menstruation and birthing define women.  How anti-feminist can you get?!  Lots of women don't have menstrual cycles and never reproduce---does this mean they aren't really women?  As an historian, I also found it inaccurate (I realize it's a novel and so it shouldn't matter that Diamant doesn't seem to have any understanding of women's lives in the biblical period but the book was so poorly written, the characters so lacking in definition that I found myself overly critical of her historical ignorance).<BR>     I find myself wondering why this book receieved so much attention.  I would never recommend it!	2002-07-19
US	46254038	R2NMQF3YHXNRFY	0395570352	208445376	Grandfather's Journey (CALDECOTT MEDAL BOOK)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful story and stunning illustrations	I bought a copy of this book for all of my nephews and nieces (6 copies total!).  It is truly wonderful---one of the best picturebooks I have ever seen.<BR>     The watercolor/illustrations have a dreamy quality to them and they make you want to get in a car and drive across the US to meet the people Grandfather meets and to see the cities, deserts and landscapes he sees.<BR>     The story is also deeply moving.  Say does an incredible job illustrating the ways in which people who move from one country (or even one region of a country) to another feel both a love for their new home as well as a longing for their old.  Having lived abroad and felt that pull, I have often found myself in tears as I read the book.<BR>     For my nieces and nephews it was a wonderful way to introduce them to the experiences of their immigrant great-grandfather and great-grandmother. I can't recommend this highly enough!	2002-07-19
US	46254038	R3E9FSSL7S393C	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable and interesting	Not especially well-written but this is the kind of book where the writing doesn't especially matter.  It's chockful of interesting facts, anecdotes and real-life (but seemingly fictional) characters.  Although you already know the outcome of the storm, the book keeps you firmly in its grip.  Don't bother with the movie---read the book!	2002-07-12
US	46254038	RWO5EXW3GZHB0	0061042935	537116893	Everywhere That Mary Went	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good mystery and great heroine!	Scottoline is a very good writer---the pace is fast, the story interesting, and the characters refreshing.  Mary is an especially wonderful character--very real.  Every woman professional (regardless of her profession) has felt as Mary has (like a fraud).  This was the first of Scottoline's books which I read and I immediately went out and bought several others (which didn't disappoint me).  Scottoline is that rarity: an intelligent writer who respects her readers and moves them quickly thro' a story.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R3NUA74J1BC1D9	B000065V2I	398028963	Little Green Men	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good but not great	This is mildly amusing but can't compare to Buckley's classic, Thank You for Smoking.  <BR>      The book starts out well---excellent premise (the US is staging alien abductions to up budgets) and Banion is the kind of oozing slime one loves to hate but somehow it just doesn't hang together well.  There are a couple of good laughs but Buckley seems to be straining to make the laughs.  A disappointment (buy a copy of Thank You for Smoking instead!).	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R4K6KPLZCX2PZ	0312287712	450798880	The Lecturer's Tale: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Outstanding academic satire	Having been a visiting assistant professor, I alternated between crying and laughing as I read this. Hynes skewers contemporary academics and reveals the gross inequalities which exist in academia (where most of the teaching---and often publishing---is done by poorly paid adjuncts and visiting professors). <BR> His focus on the politics of literary criticism can get a bit tiresome at times (but that may have been b/c I spent years dealing with those debates and found them tiresome in reality!). But the final chapter which reveals where academia is really headed was chilling---it was well-worth wading thro' the material on lit crit to get to that final scene.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R3FX5E7KYOTHLU	0449910237	79568500	Moo	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Good but not great	Smiley has written a good but not great academic novel.  Moo bears some disturbing parallels to David Lodge's much better academic trilogy (Changing Places, Small World and Nice Work)---Lodge's work was written earlier and is frankly much better.<br />  The characters, setting and plot should be familiar to anyone who has spent time in a university (the newly minted professor struggling to get a grip, the jaded older faculty, the endless and pointless committee meetings, the tensions between administrators and faculty and so on).  The one fairly original aspect of Moo is Smiley's inclusion of undergraduate characters who are usually completely ignored in academic novels.  Mary, an 18 yr old urban African American freshman put down in the middle of the cornfields is one of Smiley's best characters and I read the novel looking for her (alas, she is not a central character).<br />  For Smiley fans (and I am one), the book is a disappointment (it can't compare to her fantastic epic, The Greenlanders) and for those who love academic novels, the book is only mildly good.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R1Y5UWMYNJ6Q5D	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Over-rated	The book has a simple structure and there is nothing new or exciting in the story.  This is the kind of book you should read on a plane ride but don't expect anything deep, meaningful or original.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R38KXE2C2N0479	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	1	10	14	N	N	Grossly over-rated	McEwan's writing is coy and his characters are uninteresting parodies.  Even if the book is meant to be an exploration of creativity and imagination as opposed to a simple novel, it is a failure.  Deeply pretentious, the book does little to expose the foibles of the upper-class British.  Nothing rings true in this book.  <BR> <BR>       I am still amazed that the book receieved such attention and that McEwan is hailed as a great or even interesting writer.  Avoid this like the plague.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R1AZMCMIUWUC50	0140165215	472314295	Paradise News	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fantastic; Lodge at his best and that's saying a lot!	David Lodge is one of the most gifted writers around and Paradise News is one of his best books.<BR> Bernard is an ex-priest who who left the priesthood after realizing that he was and always had been an atheist. His decision to leave the priesthood (which he entered as an adolescent) leaves him with no real meaning in his life until his aunt calls him to her deathbed. With his father, Bernard travels half-way around the world (from England to Hawaii) in an attempt to reconcile his father and his aunt. In doing so, he discovers who he is and what he has been searching for.<BR> The themes in this book (pedophilia/sex abuse, unresolved sexuality among young priests etc.) are especially timely right now but even without these themes the book has an incredible pull and power.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R2BDAHEDTX5D3I	1570717435	169069034	First Lady	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Disappointing and not as great as Time's Witness	This is Malone's long-awaited sequel to Time's Witness (which was fantastic).  Cuddy, Justin and Alice are all back again struggling for justice and equality in the New South.<BR>     I was disappointed, however, to see that Malone has had Cuddy continue to be in love with Lee Haver (a woman who does not deserve him and who I had hoped Cuddy had dumped forever).  The plot itself is good and, as always, Malone's characters carry the day.  But while Time's Witness is brilliant, First Lady is simply ordinary.	2002-07-12
US	46254038	R6NCTMCOIOEWF	0060976624	408140508	Thank You for Smoking	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wildly funny	Fantastic!  I have read this book several times and it has never failed to have me laughing out loud.  Naylor is one of the best characters ever and I love the portrayal of the Department of Health and Human Services (Hopeless, Helpless and Stupid)---I say all this as a health care professional who works for the department (and as a liberal!).  Buckley's other books can't compare.	2002-07-11
US	46254038	RPQRMXBPOUXCU	0393319504	23611299	The Voyage of the Narwhal: A Novel	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Brilliant	Barrett is at her best in this book.  The characters are wonderfully drawn and deeply memorable.  The story, however, is really what makes this book--Zeke's cold-blooded desire to achieve public acclaim, even as he destroys the lives of Erasmus and others, is chillingly real.	2002-07-11
US	46254038	RII4A825K6ZHD	0027614107	842183834	A Spirit to Ride the Whirlwind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great book which should go back in print	This is a fantastic book---well-researched with great characters and a really interesting story.  It won several awards when it was released (so you have to wonder: why is it out of print?!).<BR>    I really recommend it for young girls---Binnie is a great role model and her struggle to find independence and a future in early 19th century America is one which should appeal to most girls.<BR>    Binnie is a bobbin-girl in a Lowell mill during the 1830s.  When the mill-owners cut the women's wages, Binnie and the women who live in her mother's boarding house must decide whether to strike or not.  Binnie's decision is colored by both her indignation over the unfairness of the cuts and her concerns about her mother's position (will her mother lose her job as a boarding house operator if her daughter joins the strike?).  The questions Binnie confronts and her struggle to address them are incredibly real and well-handled (Lord is a very gifted writer and her characters ring true thro'out the book).<BR>    The book also provides insights into the position of the Irish in early 19th century America as well as the overall position of women (an especially chilling scene demonstrates how few rights women had---one of the women working in the mill is pursued by an abusive husband who is given the right to seize his wife's hard-earned wages).<BR>     Buy this book instead of one of the Dear America books. It is so much better!!	2002-07-11
US	46254038	R6NSRR2KQWCP7	1570717540	779151193	Time's Witness	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great book!	Malone is a really gifted writer and Time's Witness is one of his best books (much better than Uncivil Seasons).  Cuddy is the kind of man about whom women dream (he's smart, has incredible integrity and is a romantic---it doesn't matter that he describes himself as homely---that's just part of his appeal).  <BR>    Cuddy's struggle to balance his own moral code (opposition to the death penalty) with the demands of his profession (chief of police in a state which uses the death penalty) is at the heart of the novel.  But the book also explores other issues as well: class snobbery/elitism, racism, the nature of the \\"New South\\" and there is also, of course, an interesting love story with a great and very unconventional ending. <BR>      You will not regret buying this book!	2002-07-11
US	46254038	R1G42878JJVALV	1570717575	880786908	Foolscap: Or, The Stages of Love	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great academic satire	As a former academic, I loved this book!  Malone does a great job revealing the lunacies which characterize modern academia.  The professors at Cavendish University will be very familiar to anyone who has spent any time at all at an American university.<BR>  <BR>    The story itself is also quite fun---even if you aren't a fan of Walter Raleigh (as Malone clearly is---this is not his first book to discuss Raleigh).  <br />     Malone has a great sense of humor and the book, which follows the exploits of Theo Ryan, mild-mannered professor turned literary forger, is the kind which makes you laugh out loud.  Avoid reading this in public unless you are comfortable having people watch you suddenly burst into uncontrollable laughter.	2002-07-11
US	46254038	R1HYTVUDLT2DRY	068831371X	486517475	Hail Columbia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beatty at her best	As always, Beatty's characters are incredibly memorable while her story draws you in.  Aunt Columbia, a suffragette who stirs things up in late nineteenth-century Astoria, is the kind of aunt everyone wishes they had---regardless of the time period in which they live!	2002-07-11
US	46254038	R3P4C7C4XCHZHP	0786867663	116706867	Creating a Life: Professional Women and the Quest For Children	Books	1	25	34	N	N	Poorly conceived	Poorly conceived and deeply problematic. As an historian, I can contextualize this book: Hewlett is no different from eugenists who argued in the 1920s that upper-class intelligent women were failing in their duty to produce children and that these women would regret it. She is also no different from 19th century gynecologists such as Edward Clarke who claimed that women who attended college would suffer from infertility and uterine problems (and like Hewlett, Clarke also insisted that women and men were/are equal!). The truth is Hewlett's thesis isn't even new---moreover, her thesis has yet to be proven with good accurate statistics and an unbiased approach to the question. <br /> Where is the discussion of the DROP which occurs in men's fertility as they age? Where is the discussion of the rise in birth defects which increase as men age? Fertility is NOT dependent solely on the woman's status---it takes two to make a baby. Hewlett's compelete disregard for and refusal to discuss male fertility and the problems which occur as men age reveals serious problems in her methodology. No scholar would ever approach a study from such a biased angle (ignoring half the problem). As an academic, I was deeply insulted by Hewlett's slipshod approach and methodology---regardless of her conclusions, her book is seriously flawed by this type of carelessness and disregard for basic standards.<BR> <BR> I strongly suggest that readers who are impressed with Hewlett look at discussions of her work which have appeared in magazines as diverse as Fortune and The American Prospect. When Fortune (not exactly a liberal magazine) condemns Hewlett's work you know it's got to be bad.  Moreover, Hewlett's claim that career-women are NOT having children is graphically refuted by both Fortune's studies as well as statistical studies by the American Prospect. Career-women, as these better studies illustrate, simply have their children at a slightly later age (and, contrary to Hewlett's thesis, they DO have children at the same rate as their working-class counterparts---they just have them later).<br /> On a personal level (since we are throwing away the idea that unbiased approaches to this issue are key), ALL of the women whom I know of who suffer from infertility are in their 20s and early 30s; fertility is not always age-related (as would be evidenced by the fact that most of my friends who are in their late 30s and early 40s have managed to get pregnant). If nothing else, the fact that Hewlett herself managed to have a child at 51 (why is this acceptable for her but not other women?) should throw a wrench in her thesis.<br /> I still find myself confused as to why Hewlett's book has generated discussion. Why did the New York Times feel a need to run op-eds discussing the fact that this book wasn't selling? Do we do this with other books which don't sell? Do we do this with books which scholars dismiss as poorly documented? Of course not. The fact that the book generated such discussion indicates the presence of a tremendous backlash against women, especially career women as well as a desire on the part of the mainstream media to create an issue which may not exist.<br /> The book has done what Hewlett intended--scared younger women into believing that marriage is the answer (look for more divorces in the future) and provided older women with \\"the\\" answer (this is the reason why they didn't have children). The truth, as always, is much more complex than Hewlett would have us believe---in fact, Hewlett's thesis (the more successful a woman is the less likely she is to have children) has already been refuted (with a better and less biased use of statistics) by several scholars and journalists. As a social commentary/explanation as to why today's families are smaller or why some women (AND MEN) are not having children, Hewlett's work is insufficient.	2002-07-01
US	46254038	R3D3HXN1Q586QZ	0312022468	302024255	Madensky Square	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The best romance novel I have ever read	Ibbotson creates truly wonderful characters---Susanna, the heroine of this novel, is the best of her creations.  Susanna's romance isn't a perfect one (whose is?) and the story has rather sad moments but Ibbotson creates, as always, a world which any reader would want to visit.  Her sly comments on political radicalism (in the form of Nini, the anarchist model/seamstress who works in Susanna's shop) are wonderful---too bad more earnest political writers never encountered Nini or thought more deeply about how difficult it can be to want &quot;the revolution&quot; while looking pretty...  Everyone to whom I have lent the book has loved it and wants to buy a copy (I'm more than a bit worried that I may lend this book out and never get it back).	2002-06-20
US	46254038	RRWGSF0Q53NZ2	082632276X	146494648	Healing Ways: Navajo Health Care in the Twentieth Century	Books	1	3	11	N	N	Narrow, unfocused and not very well-written	Davies' book is extremely narrow and there is no real attempt to place the Navajo's experiences in a broader context.  At the most basic level, Healing Ways reads like a dissertation and not a very good one at that.  There are numerous errors in the text (better copy editing and, even more importantly, a better knowledge of the field of medical history would have made this book a better and easier read).  The book is pitched as a second half to White Man's Medicine---a book written by one of Davies' professors in graduate school.  White Man's Medicine is a much better book and I am sorry to see Healing Ways paired with White Man's Medicine.	2002-06-18
US	46254038	R22D6E028XZFY1	0374526214	708766770	So What Are You Going to Do With That?: A Guide for M.A.'s and Ph.D's Seeking Careers Outside the Academy	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Not especially insightful but helpful	I read this book four years after completing my PhD and after four years teaching in a dead-end tenure track job (the job was in a region of the country I would never have visited but somehow I wound up living there b/c I thought I was supposed to take any tenure-track job I was offered). The book wasn't super insightful and it is true that most of the advice contained in the book can be found in other career books. However, I really needed a book which reassured me that it was okay to leave accademia...and that leaving academia could bring me greater happiness. I loved reading the anecdotes about people who had left academia---not b/c I learned specific job-hunting tools from their stories but because the stories gave me the confidence to start my own job search. It's now been a year since I left academia. I have a fantastic job, an amazing boss, wonderful colleagues (something I never experienced in academia), a good salary with the promise of continual raises and bonuses (something NO ONE experiences in academia!) and I live where I want to live. I wouldn't say I owe it all to this book but the book really did help me start my own job search and it gave me constant reassurances (whenever I felt depressed or worried about leaving academia, I went back to this book and read over a few of the stories---this helped to give me the courage to go back out and talk to more people). I strongly recommend this book and What Color is Your Parachute? to anyone who is thinking about leaving academia. The best part of both of these books was the part where the authors told me I could find a job in a city where I wanted to live! Both books were worth the money for that alone!	2002-06-06
US	46254038	R3QVDGEEU8FCNY	0140122796	107823157	Out of the Shelter (King Penguin)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny with a twist of sadness	As a professor, I used this book when teaching a class on British history.  It's one of my favorite books and my students loved it as well.  Lodge is an incredibly gifted writer and his ability to evoke the more painful aspects of adolescence (while letting you see the amusing side of it as well) is fantastic.  It also provides a wonderful insight into American culture and our consumer-minded society.	2001-09-26
