US	46267911	R2CA8QZ5NMG3J6	0864424027	692883313	Papua New Guinea (Lonely Planet Travel Guides)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	LP guidebooks are usually great, and this is even better !	Having been a collector, affectionate reader, and on-the-field user of Lonely Planet guidebooks during my numberless and continuous travels, I can indeed witness that this one is one of the best.  Some guidebooks try to cover too much, e.g. all of West Africa or all of Central Asia, and don't do the job so well (inevitable and still better than carrying one book for each country, but to the detriment of the quality).  Another common problem, is the author's favourable bias towards the country she or he is covering, as if it were the most marvelous place on Earth - I think here of the LP guidebook to Libya.  In other books still, some regions are covered more in-depth than others: the Indonesia guidebook only has seven pages on East Timor, which would in fact deserve a whole chapter if not a whole book on its own !  Instead, in covering the fascinating land of Papua New Guinea, this author has done an excellent job, and not much else really needs to be added: this is indeed the Lonely Planet standard, that is to say, an excellent standard.  For those who may not be familiar with it, this means excellent, up-to-date, accurate coverage of all areas of the country, with information (primary basic facts as well as further data for perfectionists) about accommodation, getting around, eating, entertainment, etc.  Despite the vastity of this land and the difficulty of getting to the most remote areas, the author has managed it.  The chapters on history and culture, especially in this guidebook, I find to be extremely well-written and researched.  This one is indeed an excellent tool not only for the traveller but also for the armchair traveller who may wish to know more about PNG without necessarily going.  It is extremely enjoyable and pleasant to read, thus combining the unrivalled qualities of a guidebook from Lonely Planet, with great information and facts about the mysterious land of Papua New Guinea.	2003-03-03
US	46267911	R1181MNMXLVQXH	1880656426	442680727	Japanese Beyond Words: How to Walk and Talk Like a Native Speaker	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Truly excellent: highly informative, and great reading too !	As a European or American, there is no doubt that the culture of Japan is one of the most difficult to penetrate and understand.  Arabs, Indians, and even the peoples of Indochina, are still Indo-European and not so different from us in many ways, while the people of Africa were greatly influenced by European colonialism.  Even the Chinese and Koreans, or the peoples of the South Pacific, are not to hard to understand.  Japan, instead, is a totally different world.  The world's second greatest economy, a nation and a people who have extremely intense economic and political relations with the West, whom we meet daily in our respective parts of the world as business travellers or flocks of tourists, probably remain the world's most traditional and least penetrable society.  While political correctness is rampant in the West, Japan remains a culture of total political uncorrectness, a culture of pride and shame.  The society is based on rituals, which are extremely hard for us to understand.  In this wonderful masterpiece, Andrew H&oacute;rvat, an American-Hungarian who has lived in Japan for over thirty years and now heads the Japan office of The Asia Foundation, does a truly excellent job in letting us know more of this mysterious and fascinating society, which is sometimes perturbing to our eyes, but fantastically interesting to understand.  The book is written in very lay terms, and requires no special prior knowledge of Japan nor an academic background.  It is written in a very simple and fluid manner, without complications.  Yet, it is dense with information and reflections of an academic nature.  At the same time, it is filled with information about Japan's culture and society, and it is great reading for anyone wishing to know more of this subject.  And you can bet, even if you are not interested in Japan, this book will make you change mind.	2002-12-24
US	46267911	RBHPUYNRNR5PM	1864500883	62626721	Lonely Planet Chile & Easter Island	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Concise, filled with great information, excellently written.	This is for certain one of the best Lonely Planet guides I came across (and I do have a very large collection).  Perhaps aided by the fact that Chile is a relatively small country, yet stretching from the tropical to the antarctic areas, and by the relative homogeneity of the country in terms of society and culture, the author and editors have done an excellent job in collecting and putting together all the best information a traveller to Chile would need.  I know Chile very well, and can witness that this information is up-to-date, correct, unbiased, and altogether an indispensable tool for any traveller, providing all necessary data for the more well-off and for 'backpackers' alike.  The information is concise and clear.  Everything is excellently written, thus ensuring real pleasure too.  The sections on politics, history and society are excellent too.  Altogether, it is a great companion while travelling in Chile or dreaming of Chile.	2002-12-24
US	46267911	R1AEEN108X2MND	1875284974	479885742	Cuba: Talking About Revolution: Conversations with Juan Antonio Blanco (new ed. 1996)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A thrilling, fervid and frank dialogue on present and future	Despite the time elapsed since this book was published, with all the changes that occurred in Cuba during these years, Medea Benjamin's conversations with Juan Antonio Blanco remain extremely topical, even in the discussion of present-day Cuba.  Juan Antonio Blanco, very possibly Cuba's best historian, has always been someone passionately 'inside' the Cuban Revolution: in fact, for many years he has been struggling and fighting in order to keep 'inside' that Revolution, endeavouring to push and squeeze his own thoughts and views into the boiling pot of the Revolution's changing view of itself.  Even today, from his self-imposed semi-exiled in Canada, Blanco remains a faithful revolutionary servant, attempting to change what may be wrong with the Revolution, rather than ever dissenting from it.  That makes him a 'dissident' inside the system, let's say a potential Gorbachev or Havel.  As we read this fantastic book, and even more so as we read it backwards, we discover more of Juan Antonio Blanco's thoughts, concerns, criticisms, passions, concerns, views for the future.  We read what he said and criticized of the Revolution at the time, we read his predictions, and thus we find to what extent his ideas were or were not incorporated into the new revolutionary thinking, to what extent his concerns were listened to and implemented.  Overall, we can assess to what extent Blanco may really maintain his claim to have remained 'inside' the Revolution.  But of course, this is not only a book about the great mind of Juan Antonio Blanco.  Author Medea Benjamin provokes Blanco on a lot of points, giving rise to passionate conversations on so many aspects of Cuba's life, from the most theoretic issues of thought, to practical matters of the everyday life of Cuba's citizens.  An impressive amount of topics and issues are covered, ranging from philosophy to health system, from economic crisis to nutrition and international relations.  All these are discussed in a way that make it easy to read for everyone - for the scholar of Cuba and the student alike, as well as anyone interested in Cuba, without requiring any academic knowledge.  The prose is excellent, and the contents very well edited.  Overall, it is one of the books that should not be missing from anyone's Cuba library.easy to read for everyone - for the scholar of Cuba and the student alike, as well as anyone interested in Cuba, without requiring any academic knowledge.  The prose is excellent, and the contents very well edited.  Overall, it is one of the books that should not be missing from anyone's Cuba library.	2002-09-26
US	46267911	RJ4E8DKU60P50	1864501855	951826867	Lonely Planet Tunisia	Books	2	14	14	N	N	Sadly below the Lonely Planet standard	To my regret, I must say that I have not come across any Lonely Planet guidebook as poor as this one - and indeed, I have quite a substantial collection of them, which I have used worldwide. The book surely manages to cover a great deal about Tunisia's culture and society, the country's arts, etc., with plenty of historical facts and data, filled with rich information and thrilling anecdotes, all written in good prose and well edited. Indeed, it is a good introductory book about Tunisia, nice for the armchair traveller, and useful for those wishing to grab bits of pieces and data in a rush in order to know the basics about this beautiful country. Yet, as a guidebook, which is supposed to help the visitor in getting around the place in comfort and style, this book features rather poorly. When I found myself looking for a hotel in Tunis (and that should be quite a primary task for this kind of publication !), I discovered that the guidebook makes no mention whatsoever of most top-hotels, such as the Hilton, the Radisson, and the Best Western. The coverage on places to stay is extremely poor, not even enabling one to know which part of the city to head to for different budgets. As for restaurants, the situation was even worse. Needless to say, the book did not help in finding any entertainment in the daytime or at night, suffice it to say that no mention is made as regards the role of renowned entertainment spots like Hammamet or Soussa for Tunis-based travellers and locals. Information on basic things such as changing money was simply not there either, thus leaving the visitor unaware of the simple fact that, in order to change local currency back into foreign currency, an exchange receipt of ATM receipt must be produced... The information on visas is accurate, but the author misses out mentioning the fact that most nationals do not need a visa to start with ! All in all, the author has put together a nice book about Tunisia, but not so useful for those visiting Tunisia - which is very different. As such, you may well wish to buy it in order to get a feeling of the country, but not bother taking it with you once you go.ia - which is very different. As such, you may well wish to buy it in order to get a feeling of the country, but not bother taking it with you once you go.	2002-09-22
US	46267911	R1VA4IG6B55BXV	1740591372	580436366	Lonely Planet The Gambia and Senegal	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Excellent: condensed, useful, and great reading	In many cases, the coverage offered by Lonely Planet guidebooks may be hampered by the magnitude of the region they try and cover. This is why for example, in \\"Lonely Planet West Africa\\" (a bulky book which also covers Senegal and the Gambia), coverage of each single country is brief and not always perfect, and the reader is often lost among facts and information she or he does not need. Instead, in this much smaller and far more condensed guidebook, the author and editors have managed to put as much information and data as possible into it, about Senegal and the tiny Gambia. Coverage of both countries is excellent, providing up-to-date, accurate information and sensible advice, on anything from places to stay and eat, things to do and see, things to buy, and basically anything the traveller may wish to know. The coverage on culture, society, arts, music, and other information, is also excellent and wide, written in great prose and style. This is probably one of the best Lonely Planet guidebooks I have come across, and I would strongly recommend it to anyone travelling to those two countries. It will be an extremely useful tool, and will also provide great reading about the places being visited.	2002-09-22
US	46267911	R2CMA0AKWZ1DIZ	1864501375	290868715	Lonely Planet Bermuda	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A great achievement for a small place...	The major obstacle which hinders the performance of Lonely Planet and other guidebooks is that they often try and cover a very wide country or region, such as \\"Lonely Planet China\\" or \\"Lonely Planet USA\\", not to mention things like \\"Lonely Planet Africa on a shoestring\\". This often means that, in over 800 pages of a bulky book, only few are really relevant to what the reader is looking for. Indeed, the reader can be lost among lots of information, data, etc., which she or he has no interest in: if I find myself in Nairobi and am looking for a restaurant, do I really need to find myself browsing information about the visa procedures for Cameroon or the hotels of Sierra Leone ? Luckily, Bermuda is a much smaller place, and this has enabled the author and editors to truly produce a well-focused, condensed and overall excellent guidebook. The information for the visitor is complete and accurate, up-to-date, and indeed extremely useful (even in a place which does not present particular cultural or social obstacles for the average visitor): while Bermuda may still be possible to get to know on one's own, the aid of this little guidebook will be paramount. Its sections on hotels, restaurants, entertainment, are excellent. Coverage of things to see and do, sports and other activities, is down-to-the-point and very full. The sections on history and culture are also of great value, excellently written, easy-to-read in a captivating and pleasant prose, making this truly enjoyable and worthy reading for everyone. It is indeed a book one should surely pack before setting off to Bermuda.	2002-09-22
US	46267911	R3MDFD9ZGD1SPQ	1740591178	408414129	Lonely Planet China	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A very hard and very well-managed and great endeavour	This edition of &quot;Lonely Planet China&quot; is excellent. It is better than the previous one, which was very good itself but had some weaknesses. Despite the immensity of China and the numberless topics and regions that have to be covered herein, the authors have done an excellent job indeed. Most of LP's masterpieces are guidebooks to much smaller countries or regions (it is indeed inevitable for travel guidebooks to be the better, in overall terms, the smaller the region they cover). But this one is an exception: despite its hugeness, China has been covered with superb maestry by people who do know about it. Having said this, we cannot diminish the importance of LP's guidebooks to Beijing and Shanghai - if you are planning to spend much time in those cities, it may be a good idea to get those guidebooks also, since this huge and heavy book cannot cover as much of those cities as the authors thsemselves would obviously love to. The same obviously applies for Hong Kong and Macau, Taiwan, and Tibet, all of which have generated their own LP guidebooks. Xinjiang is instead wonderfully covered in &quot;LP Central Asia&quot;. This is not to persuade you to get more and more guidebooks, but China is indeed an immense place and one book can hardly be enough to cover it all in depth. In this book itself, its excellent coverage of some regions is stronger than others: it is better on the Coastal towns than it is on the deep interior of China, which reflects indeed the number of tourists who go to these places. Having said this, this book does nevertheless contain most of what a visitor will need or want to know about big China. And in a place that is chaotic and tough for foreigners like China, this may indeed be an essential tool for the less experienced travellers, and a greatly useful aid to the more experienced ones too. The coverage of places to stay and eat is absolutely excellent, not just for the major cities but also for minor towns and sites (the authors would indeed seem to have been to everywhere in China where the government did not stop them from going !). The section on permits and other legal matters is of immense value to anyone, and well up-to-date. And of course, the sections and special chapters on history, culture, religion, are extremely well written, great for the traveller and the armchair reader alike. Even though the best discoveries are those a traveller will make herself / himself, this guidebook is surely a great tool and help in anyone's discovery of this wonderful land. All in all, a masterpiece despite its limitations. A weakness is of course that things being as volatile as they are in China, information is subject to unexpected changes, and some may have become out-of-date by the time this book was printed. But this is of course inevitable, and it simply means that - as in any country - a traveller should not rely on only a guidebook, but make a considerable effort to gain as much as possible of current circumstances on her / his own, which is in fact part of the wonderful travel experience.indeed seem to have been to everywhere in China where the government did not stop them from going !). The section on permits and other legal matters is of immense value to anyone, and well up-to-date. And of course, the sections and special chapters on history, culture, religion, are extremely well written, great for the traveller and the armchair reader alike. Even though the best discoveries are those a traveller will make herself / himself, this guidebook is surely a great tool and help in anyone's discovery of this wonderful land. All in all, a masterpiece despite its limitations. A weakness is of course that things being as volatile as they are in China, information is subject to unexpected changes, and some may have become out-of-date by the time this book was printed. But this is of course inevitable, and it simply means that - as in any country - a traveller should not rely on only a guidebook, but make a considerable effort to gain as much as possible of current circumstances on her / his own, which is in fact part of the wonderful travel experience.	2002-09-12
US	46267911	R1IT7360VWI8SE	0864426992	360964359	Lonely Planet Libya	Books	3	48	60	N	N	Far too 'positive' about Libya, and with some inaccuracies	By all means, this Lonely Planet guide is an extremely useful tool for those travelling in Libya, and is probably the best guidebook about the country. The author and editors have put some great work into it, resulting in an excellent achievement in terms of overall coverage and book's presentation. Few other Lonely Planet guides are as interesting and fascinating to read as this one, so filled with thrilling information on history and culture, with great anecdotes and stories about Libya's wonders. But the problem is, exactly, that this guidebook is too filled with Libya's alleged 'wonders', making Libya truly appear a real dream-country for the visitor - which, very arguably, it is not. So, if you have already made your mind about going to Libya, by all means you should take this book with you. But if you are tempted to visit Libya mainly because you have been enchanted by this book, as might indeed happen given the book's excellent prose and contents, then you should think twice. The author seems to have made great friends in Libya and have enjoyed the country greatly, and I am glad for him. But please do note: Libya is far from being a pleasant place filled with \\"the most pleasant people on Earth\\" (book's wording). I have so far been to 155 sovereign nations, and to my chagrin I am sorry to say that I have found no other place on Earth as harsh, boring and outright tidious as Libya - I enjoyed Somalia, Sierra Leone and Kosovo far more ! If you are looking for Arabic warmth, Morocco or Tunisia are a much better bet. If you are looking for desert, you have a whole half-continent to consider, including nearby Algeria. If you wish to go somewhere 'new', maybe try Cuba or Iran. And I don't see why would one bother with Libya's ancient Roman ruins, since Italy is just opposite, on the other side of the Mediterranean. And if Libya fascinates you because of its alleged dangers and novelty, plenty of other alternatives exist, from Syria to Yemen. As regards the people too, I have not had the pleasant experiences which the guidebook seems to guarantee: without wishing to stereotype a whole people, I must say that I have found a great deal of arrogant, cheating, rude and inhospitable people among Libyans. Therefore my advice simply is: please take this book's positive words very cautiously. Many inacuraccies or misrepresentations are also contained in the book. The whole range of Tripoli's top-end hotels (allegedly 5-stars), listed very positively in the book, are in reality no more than low 3-stars properties with appallingly low or inexistent customer service. Some of the restaurants listed simply don't exist, or are horribly disappointing compared to the book's description. The whole procedure of getting a visa is described in the book in a way that makes it seem complex and lawyerly, while in reality I was able to get a visa very straight-forward, and was amazed by the lack of bureaucracy encountered along the process. Having said all this, thereby placing this book below the excellent standard usually offered by Lonely Planet, the book is indeed a great achievement in terms of coverage of the whole nation. In a region so hard to get to know, the author has been able to cover small towns and villages, albeit with errors, in a way that is amazing and wonderful. And as mentioned previously, the book is so rich with facts about Libya, that it makes fascinating reading, by all means great for the armchair traveller, and for those wishing to dream of a wonderful Libya. Indeed, I wish Libya were really as the author describes it...o, I have not had the pleasant experiences which the guidebook seems to guarantee: without wishing to stereotype a whole people, I must say that I have found a great deal of arrogant, cheating, rude and inhospitable people among Libyans. Therefore my advice simply is: please take this book's positive words very cautiously. Many inacuraccies or misrepresentations are also contained in the book. The whole range of Tripoli's top-end hotels (allegedly 5-stars), listed very positively in the book, are in reality no more than low 3-stars properties with appallingly low or inexistent customer service. Some of the restaurants listed simply don't exist, or are horribly disappointing compared to the book's description. The whole procedure of getting a visa is described in the book in a way that makes it seem complex and lawyerly, while in reality I was able to get a visa very straight-forward, and was amazed by the lack of bureaucracy encountered along the process. Having said all this, thereby placing this book below the excellent standard usually offered by Lonely Planet, the book is indeed a great achievement in terms of coverage of the whole nation. In a region so hard to get to know, the author has been able to cover small towns and villages, albeit with errors, in a way that is amazing and wonderful. And as mentioned previously, the book is so rich with facts about Libya, that it makes fascinating reading, by all means great for the armchair traveller, and for those wishing to dream of a wonderful Libya. Indeed, I wish Libya were really as the author describes it...	2002-09-12
US	46267911	R1T8182FLAXAGP	0140513973	102534042	The Penguin Dictionary of International Relations (Reference)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A truly indispensable tool for scholars or beginners alike	Just like the Penguin Dictionary to 20th Century History, and many other manuals in the same series, this book is extremely precious - if not indispensable - for all those studying or needing to have some grasp of international relations and international history. It is of great use for scholars, who may need to refresh their knowledge on one or the other subject, the details of which they might not remember just off their head. While it is also of crucial use to beginners, who may wish to approach their study of international relations with the aid of this truly comprehensive book, offering information and explanations in a rigorous, yet truly easy-to-read, fashion. The entries are dense and concise at the same time, ensuring maximum time-efficiency, thus enabling a speedy and smooth look-up of information. The coverage is of course excellent, covering the globe, and every topic under the field. All in all, it is a book that cannot be missing from the personal stacks of anyone working in this field.	2002-08-16
US	46267911	R1LHO9PWL83DBT	1580627927	431202376	Kosher Adultery: Seduce and Sin with Your Spouse	Books	5	53	66	N	N	You may not share nor change views, but this is a great book	This is yet one more best-selling book, by Rabbi Shmuel Boteach. He has written on topics as varied as the interpretation of dreams, the Talmud, and Judaism altogether - all presented to a widely non-Jewish audience of readers. But his main area of interest are relationships, namely love and sex, between the two of which he of course makes a distinction. Before you think this book may not be for you, one thing has to be overwhelmingly stressed: Rabbi Boteach has his views and sticks firmly to them. Yet, the book will not try to \\"convert\\" you to those views (in fact, they are views which I do not wholly share myself). You are quite likely not to share any of the author's views on love and sex, and not change your position at all after reading the book. Yet, this is a book that will make you think. It will uncover many aspects of love, sex, marital life and relationships, which you may have never thought about. It will be extremely enriching reading, for soul and mind, and perhaps - not kidding - also for your more intimate parts. Needless to say, it is written with superb literary maestry, with a rich prose but yet extremely fluid to read. The author's words come out of the book, in the same way that they come out of his debates (he was, indeed, the winner of the prestigious Times \\"Preacher of the Year Award\\" !). A number of topics are covered, questions asked and possible answers put forward. It will be thought-provoking (but not giving any head-ache). It will be light reading touching on very deep issues. By all means, this is a book all of humanity should read.	2002-08-13
US	46267911	R2H0HFGDW5JBMZ	1892051060	84642261	Guinness World Records 2002	Books	5	0	0	N	N	When you are bored of reading, this will stir you up	Almost everyone in the world has heard of the Guinness Book of Records. Yet, not so many people bother buying it, despite that the price is more than affordable. Why buy this product ? I personally find that when I am too tired to read, do not feel like reading any work-related stuff, nor any heavy novels, and not even any lighter reading, this book does the job. It is filled with curiosities, with things guaranteed to fascinate, to perplex, to cheer up, to cause laughter or concern. You can open and start reading on any page, and then close and put it down at any time. If you are feeling more sophisticated, a great index will guide you to what you are looking for, and you will be amazed at how many absurdly curious records there are. Whether you use it for five minutes or spend hours on it, it is sure to be time well spent. It is fun, relaxation, as well as knowledge. And if you think about it, you get each record for less than one tenth of a cent ! At least for one year, you should definitely consider buying this world-famous book.	2002-08-11
US	46267911	R1P8G2S7MQR3VE	8483100886	693303292	El Furor y el Delirio: Itinerario de un Hijo de la Revolucion Cubana (Coleccion Andanzas) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Crea o no crea Ud. el autor, son lecturas fascinantes !	En este libro, Jorge Masetti expone su camino de vida en Cuba.  Cr&iacute;ado como &quot;hijo de la Revoluci&oacute;n&quot;, de hecho trabajando para los servicios secretos de Castro desde muy bien dentro del sistema, pas&oacute; a trav&eacute;s de esos caminos de dudas ideol&oacute;gicas (adem&aacute;s de situaciones de dramas pr&aacute;cticos) que muchos cubanos enfrentan.  Y luego vino su desilusi&oacute;n, que lo llev&oacute; a emigrar a Francia y pasar su vida en el exilio, en la disidencia, entre Europa y el &quot;centro de la contra-revoluci&oacute;n&quot; de Miami.  Este libro es la historia de un cubano, y es una historia de espionaje.  Y sobre eso hay que decir dos cosas.  Primero, muchos cubanos han contado o pueden contar historias verdaderamente escalofriantes sobre su vida en Cuba, pero muy pocos de ellos pueden contar lo que vivi&oacute; Jorge Masetti, y que nos cuenta en este libro.  Segundamente, en el mundo pueden haberse publicado muchas novelas de espionaje, pero pocas son historias reales - esta, de hecho, es una historia muy muy real, que tiene lugar en la Cuba de hoy, a noventa millas de la Florida.  Con suma maestr&iacute;a y excelente prosa, con un estilo muy fluido, f&aacute;cil de leer pero sin embargo denso y rico, el autor fascina los lectores - los m&aacute;s informados sobre Cuba, como los que no sepan nada del tema.  Sus cuentos parecen a la vez haber salido de una gran novela o pelicula de espionaje de los tiempos de la Guerra Fr&iacute;a.  Pero esta no es ninguna novela, sino la pura realidad.  Y digamos enf&iacute;n: aunque haya qui&eacute;n pueda no creer todo lo que cuenta el autor, eso no disminuye la magnificencia de esta obra.  Quiera Usted leer cosas fascinantes sobre el pa&iacute;s de la tiran&iacute;a castrista, o quiera Usted una &quot;novela real&quot; de espionaje, este libro no los desilusionar&aacute;.	2002-08-11
US	46267911	R2ZMWA4ZIGERFL	1864501278	299133891	Lonely Planet Lisbon	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Lisbon is easy and wonderful, even more so with this book	I have been spending prolonger periods of time in Lisbon, and thought I felt a 'local' there.  I thought I knew all of it - its unique Old City and other sights to see, the places to hang out, things to do.  I would have never thought that I would need a guidebook.  In fact, Lisbon is a very easy and relatively inexpensive city to get around (unlike chaotic Rome, ... London, or confusing Asian cities).  It is a wonderful place, which I thought I could fully enjoyn without the help of any guidebook.  Yet, even for someone like me who knows the place and speaks the language, this Lonely Planet guidebook proved extremely useful.  It is indeed one of the best LP books I have ever used - extremely well-written, entertaiting, easy-to-use, and filled with precious information.  I thought I had seen all the beautiful sites, but this guidebook led me to even more places which I would have not otherwise found: to beautiful coast resorts just outside the city, Estoril just on her outskirts, etc. - with full advice on places to visit, to eat, etc.  I thought that I knew what to do at night (it's not hard to find night life in Libson), but this guidebook opened my eyes even more to the wonderful life of the city after dark: the less-known discos and caf&eacute;s with live music from São Tom&eacute; e Principe or Cabo Verde, the Angolan and Mozambican restaurants, etc.  Also, I had been unable to find more 'formal' places for business lunches, and this book has that also !  All this is, without mentioning the excellent coverage on the city's history, art, architecture - an excellent guide indeed to her museums, churches and other sites.  So, even if you do feel confident, don't go to Lisbon without it - you might be missing something you would not otherwise find.	2002-07-31
US	46267911	R1P3WOUYUECWGZ	1864502460	102967568	Lonely Planet India	Books	4	20	21	N	N	An excellent accomplishment, heavy but well worth it	This edition of &quot;Lonely Planet India&quot; is better than the previous one, which was very very good itself.  Despite the immensity of India and the numberless topics and regions that therefore have to be covered, the authors have done an excellent job indeed.  Some weaknesses are inevitable, and this is perhaps why this is not one of LP's masterpieces, but it is indeed inevitable for travel guidebooks to be the better, the smaller the region they cover - this is why this book should perhaps be complemented with the individual LP guides to different Indian regions.  But in itself, this book does cover most of what a visitor will need or want to know.  And in a place that is chaotic and tough for foreigners like India, this may indeed be an essential tool for the less experienced travellers.  The coverage of places to stay and eat is absolutely excellent, not just for the major cities but also for minor towns and sites (the authors would indeed seem to have been on every single square foot of land in India !).  The section on permits and other legal matters is of immense value to anyone, and well up-to-date.  And of course, the sections and special chapters on history, culture, religion, are extremely well written, great for the traveller and the armchair reader alike.  Even though the best discoveries are those a traveller will make herself / himself, this guidebook is surely a great tool and help in anyone's discovery of this wonderful land.  All in all, a masterpiece despite its limitations.  A weakness is of course that things being as they are in India, information is subject to change, and some may have become out-of-date by the time this book was printed.  But this is of course inevitable, and it simply means that - as in any country - a traveller should not rely on only a guidebook, but make a considerable effort to grasp as much as possible of current circumstances on her / his own.	2002-07-31
US	46267911	R3CXTJ7851FFD	086442258X	119685685	Lonely Planet North Africa	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Quite out-of-date, but great material nevertheless	This 700-page guidebook dates back to 1995, covering Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya. As a result, it is inevitably out-of-date: much has changed in the countries of North Africa, in their situation and in facilities for the traveler, especially in Libya and Algeria. Some sections on how to get around etc. are surely out-of-date. Yet, this book remains a truly essential tool for anyone traveling to, or simply interested in, North Africa. The sections on culture and society are tremendously useful and extremely well-written, including a beautiful coloured-photographs section on Moroccan Arts & Crafts. In terms of travel, this remains the only Lonely Planet guidebook covering Algeria (with over 90 pages on the country !), and is recommendable for anyone wishing to travel to that country. For the collector of guidebooks, this is a masterpiece, densely filled with information, and superbly researched and written. For the practical-minded traveler simply going to Morocco, Tunisia or Libya, however, LP guidebooks exist for those three individual countries, and may be a better - if heavier - choice. Nevertheless, it should be stressed: this books remains a great achievement, in Lonely Planet's great successes in covering the world.	2002-04-27
US	46267911	R2JI67QTLW8XCU	0864427174	76395298	Lonely Planet South Pacific (Travel Survival Kit)	Books	3	44	48	N	N	Below the LP standard, and biased in the region's favour	As all of Lonely Planet's guidebooks, this is of course an excellent travel tool, and truly \\"sets the standard\\". Any traveler is surely better off to the South Pacific with, rather than without, this densely written and wonderfully filled book (even though, for this particular destination, the Moon Handbook for the South Pacific would also be a very good choice). However, two things should be said about this particular LP guidebook. First, its coverage is hampered by the region's magnitude and diversity. The effort to cover so many different islands, with their own realities, their own peoples and cultures, is surely a noble endeavour. Yet, it resulted in lack of clarity, and data which is vague or uncomplete, especially on some countries (such as those of Micronesia) more than others. Getting separate LP guidebooks for individual countries or sub-regions (Micronesia, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, New Caledonia, Samoa, Fiji, Tonga, Rarotonga & Cook Islands, Tahiti & French Polynesia, etc) would be a much better choice for the discerning traveler - even though it may involve carrying a bit of extra weight around the beautiful seas and skyes of the South Pacific. Second, this guidebook suffers from an evident's \\"author's bias\\" in favour of the region. It is quite natural and inevitable, and also very positive, for authors to feel that their region is the best and nicest on our planet, home to the finest wonders of this world (to have the opposite, namely authors who are biased against their own regions, would be horrible). Yet, not all regions of the world can be great and perfect, and their peoples the finest and most friendly. Unknowing travelers should not be led to believe this. The South Pacific can indeed be a very tough place: not all islands and places are as great and beautiful as they may appear from this guidebook, getting around and having a nice time is not always easy (in fact, the region can be horribly frustrating), and the people are not always as pleasant as one might wish. By following indications for visa requirements for the Republic of Kiribati (\\"British citizens do not require visas\\"), I found myself pushed back on the aircraft, having to force my way in order to remain on the ground, and avoiding one nigt in a cell only thanks to the intervention of HM High Commissioner. Likewise, in Nauru it is not true that \\"you'll get a visa on arrival, provided the hotels have rooms\\". The Otintaai Hotel in Kiribati (allegedly the best in the country) does not have hot water as is claimed in the guidebook, and the Waterfront Villa Hotel in Palau (allegedly \\"the best deal around\\") is apparently so simply because the owners are extremely rude and prone to cheating, able to make your stay in beautiful Palau a real hell. Altogether, many countries which may sound like earthly paradises, are simply not so. The people, who are made seem friendly almost without exception, can be extremely obnoxious and difficult, not always happy to receive foreigners - especially in Micronesia and to a lesser extent in Melanesia, yet not so much in Polynesia. The advice contained in this guidebook should be taken with great care. Yet, in the end this remains a truly valuable tool, in a region so hard to get to know, where getting around and finally managing to enjoying one's trip - for those who do decide to go - can be truly hard. The sections on culture, wildlife, etc., despite their being rather summary, are extremely valuable and provide enjoyable reading. This book may not be up to the Lonely Planet standard (we should also consider that this is only the guidebook's first edition); but, considered LP's already high standards, it is not bad at all.t as one might wish. By following indications for visa requirements for the Republic of Kiribati (\\"British citizens do not require visas\\"), I found myself pushed back on the aircraft, having to force my way in order to remain on the ground, and avoiding one nigt in a cell only thanks to the intervention of HM High Commissioner. Likewise, in Nauru it is not true that \\"you'll get a visa on arrival, provided the hotels have rooms\\". The Otintaai Hotel in Kiribati (allegedly the best in the country) does not have hot water as is claimed in the guidebook, and the Waterfront Villa Hotel in Palau (allegedly \\"the best deal around\\") is apparently so simply because the owners are extremely rude and prone to cheating, able to make your stay in beautiful Palau a real hell. Altogether, many countries which may sound like earthly paradises, are simply not so. The people, who are made seem friendly almost without exception, can be extremely obnoxious and difficult, not always happy to receive foreigners - especially in Micronesia and to a lesser extent in Melanesia, yet not so much in Polynesia. The advice contained in this guidebook should be taken with great care. Yet, in the end this remains a truly valuable tool, in a region so hard to get to know, where getting around and finally managing to enjoying one's trip - for those who do decide to go - can be truly hard. The sections on culture, wildlife, etc., despite their being rather summary, are extremely valuable and provide enjoyable reading. This book may not be up to the Lonely Planet standard (we should also consider that this is only the guidebook's first edition); but, considered LP's already high standards, it is not bad at all.	2002-04-23
US	46267911	R18JE1FX83NBK3	0465007945	467178963	Judaism For Everyone	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The latest and greatest hit by the world's greatest rabbi	H.R.H. Prince El-Hassan bin Talal of Jordan wrote: \\"In the modern world, it has become clear that people of all religions must bridge these differences and work together, to ensure our survival and realize the vision of peace that all faiths share\\".  Yet, how do we put these beautiful words for world peace and harmony into real practice ?  Is it enough to simply \\"tolerate\\" or \\"put up\\" with someone else's religion, barely trying to squeeze some vague common grounds out of one another's religious creeds ?  The answer is a definite no, as this author shows us: we can easily go one step further.  We can actually come to embrace one another's religions, by learning from them, and incorporate some of their principles and values into our everyday lives - which usually does not conflict with, but rather reinforces or enriches, the values or beliefs we may already be holding through our own religion.  This step is extraordinarily exposed by H.E. Great Rabbi Shmuel Boteach, one of the world's greatest orthodox rabbis, and surely one of the top Halachic thinkers of the XXI Century.  When he was appointed as Rabbi to Oxford University at age 21, young 'Shmuley' immediately embarked on an extremely challenging task, yet very successfully: to bring the students of Oxford - Catholics, Protestants, Mormons, Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, and even Muslims - to share in the spirit of Judaism, through his marvelous creation which lives to this day, the renowned \\"L'Chaim Society\\".  Students from all sorts of cultural, social and religious backgrounds came to experience the atmosphere and magic of the Holy Shabbat, the teachings of the Sacred Torah and the Holy Talmud, enriching their lives spiritually and culturally, yet without ever giving up anything from their own religion.  Without any attempt whatsoever at proselytization, Rabbi Boteach has always worked to propose the great values and teachings of Judaism - universal values for all mankind - to those of other faiths.  Indeed, to become just \\"a little bit Jewish\\", as shows us the author, can considerably enrich our daily lives, minds and spirits.  This book, a true masterpiece not only in terms of intellectual work and rich content, but also for its superbly ravishing prose, is Rabbi Boteach's culmination in bringing Judaism to the world.  It is a book truly \\"for everyone\\" who would like to learn more about Judaism, and maybe (no commitment !) put a bit of Judaism into their lives.  Easy to read, fun to browse through, this book is great material for mind and soul alike.e just \\"a little bit Jewish\\", as shows us the author, can considerably enrich our daily lives, minds and spirits.  This book, a true masterpiece not only in terms of intellectual work and rich content, but also for its superbly ravishing prose, is Rabbi Boteach's culmination in bringing Judaism to the world.  It is a book truly \\"for everyone\\" who would like to learn more about Judaism, and maybe (no commitment !) put a bit of Judaism into their lives.  Easy to read, fun to browse through, this book is great material for mind and soul alike.	2002-04-23
US	46267911	R9U120ANHFPJ3	0465007945	467178963	Judaism For Everyone	Books	5	39	44	N	N	The latest and greatest hit by the world's greatest rabbi	H.R.H. Prince El-Hassan bin Talal of Jordan wrote: \\"In the modern world, it has become clear that people of all religions must bridge these differences and work together, to ensure our survival and realize the vision of peace that all faiths share\\". Yet, how do we put these beautiful words for world peace and harmony into real practice ? Is it enough to simply \\"tolerate\\" or \\"put up\\" with someone else's religion, barely trying to squeeze some vague common grounds out of one another's religious creeds ? The answer is a definite no, as this author shows us: we can easily go one step further. We can actually come to embrace one another's religions, by learning from them, and incorporate some of their principles and values into our everyday lives - which usually does not conflict with, but rather reinforces or enriches, the values or beliefs we may already be holding through our own religion. This step is extraordinarily exposed by H.E. Great Rabbi Shmuel Boteach, one of the world's greatest orthodox rabbis, and surely one of the top Halachic thinkers of the XXI Century. When he was appointed as Rabbi to Oxford University at age 21, young 'Shmuley' immediately embarked on an extremely challenging task, yet very successfully: to bring the students of Oxford - Catholics, Protestants, Mormons, Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, and even Muslims - to share in the spirit of Judaism, through his marvelous creation which lives to this day, the renowned \\"L'Chaim Society\\". Students from all sorts of cultural, social and religious backgrounds came to experience the atmosphere and magic of the Holy Shabbat, the teachings of the Sacred Torah and the Holy Talmud, enriching their lives spiritually and culturally, yet without ever giving up anything from their own religion. Without any attempt whatsoever at proselytization, Rabbi Boteach has always worked to propose the great values and teachings of Judaism - universal values for all mankind - to those of other faiths. Indeed, to become just \\"alittle bit Jewish\\", as shows us the author, can considerably enrich our daily lives, minds and spirits. This book, a true masterpiece not only in terms of intellectual work and rich content, but also for its superbly ravishing prose, is Rabbi Boteach's culmination in bringing Judaism to the world. It is a book truly \\"for everyone\\" who would like to learn more about Judaism, and maybe (no commitment !) put a bit of Judaism into their lives. Easy to read, fun to browse through, this book is great material for mind and soul alike.	2002-04-23
US	46267911	R32108NIGY28TI	9509517607	500326747	Tesoros de La Tradicion Judia (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great book, by one of the world's greatest rabbis !	There is no doubt: if the Jews had a Pople, Rabbi Angel Kreiman Brill would be their Holy Father.  But as it stands now, Rabbi Kreiman has to cope with the modest title of Great Chief Rabbi of Chile.  Known not only for his deep wisdom and charisma but also for his modesty, Rabbi Kreiman has put all of his intellect and energy into working for Judaism in Latin America - first in Buenos Aires where he was born, then in Santiago from the 1970s, and now in the southern Chilean city of Concepci&oacute;n.  From these places at the very end of the world, Rabbi Kreiman has nevertheless managed to put together formidable achievements, locally and internationally.  In this book (one of numerous books he published in Spanish), he puts together an invaluable amount of information, analysis and reflexions on the treasures of the Jewish tradition.  A great read, for the expert and the beginner alike, is ensured by the author's fluid style, rich prose and fabulous charisma.  A true must for anyone interested in the subject.	2002-01-24
US	46267911	RSW0P0BMIT2HH	186450188X	196700151	Lonely Planet Malaysia Sing & Brun (Lonely Planet Malaysia, Singapore & Brunei: A Travel Survival Kit)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	An excellent masterpiece, like most Lonely Planet guidebooks	Lile most Lonely Planet guidebooks, this travel guide won't come as a disappointment to any of its readers.  The unmistakable excellent standards we can expect from LP, combined with the fact that this particular guidebook is in its 8th edition already, makes of this book a masterpiece no traveller to the region should leave behind.  The information about hotels and restaurants, things to see and do, etc, is dense, well-written, excellently ordered, and up-to-date.  Likewise, the maps, the various tips on do's and dont's, are invaluable.  As always, the sections on history, politics, culture etc, are excellently written and well condensed, ensuring pleasant reading for the traveller and the prospective traveller alike.  Without exaggerating nor diminishing the fascination of this wonderful part of the world, this guidebook does great service to Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei.  It is the ultimate travel tool for those intending to visit these countries, enabling them to make the most out of their stay, as well as ensuring moments of fascinating reading.	2002-01-23
US	46267911	RC9NPIHIS5QYK	0864427727	818321064	Lonely Planet Antarctica	Books	5	28	28	N	N	A truly great achievement up to LP standards, and even more	This book from Lonely Planet is, as always, the ultimate choice of guidebook for travelers.  It provides excellent and up-to-date information which any type of traveler will find invaluable.  Despite the fact that Antarctica is probably the least visited of the many regions of the world covered by LP, the authors have managed to put together an outstanding agglomeration of data and advice, well edited and excellently written.  But... furthermore, on top of being an excellent travel book, this LP guide is also (like many other LP guides, but even more outstandingly) a great book about Antarctica's reality: the place itself, the peculiar or unique characters of this wonderful land, etc.  Truly wonderful material is provided in this book, ensuring excellent reading for the armchair traveler, or the Antarctica beginner alike.  Its many chapters and additional text boxes about a variety of topics, contain and provide extremely rich information on matters from history to politics, from geography to biology.  All in all, a masterpiece.	2002-01-12
US	46267911	R8JUEDES9VCRB	1888363835	579932150	Voice of Hope: Conversations with Alan Clements	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Wonderful writings from Burma's living hope	In this book, as in &quot;Freedom from Fear&quot; and &quot;Letters from Burma&quot;, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi exposes to the world the grim realities of her land and her people, seen through her very eyes.  As always, she is able to jump with great ability from more personal and sentimental accounts of the situation, to hard data, from recollections of her childhood, to perspectives on Burma's future.  Always filled with thrill and dense with emotions, her writings are for the expert and the ignorant alike, easy to understand, yet of high value historically and academically.  For anyone wishing to know more about Burma and the struggle of her people for human rights, this is must reading.	2001-12-01
US	46267911	R1SMWWSVUY44VS	0864421389	512416125	Lonely Planet Central Africa	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A great achievement, not up-to-date but still the best.	Central Africa is almost undoubtedly the least touristic, among the inhabited region of our Planet - and unfortunately so, for it offers wonders that few other parts of the world can offer. You can paddle a canoe down a junge river for weeks on end, hunt with the Pygmies, climb an active volcano, come face-to-face with a mountain gorilla, trek through the snow-capped Mountains of the Moon, join a search for white rhinos, dance all night to Congo music, have a bath on the unique beaches of São Tom&eacute; & Principe... Due to the very limited touristic facilities of the region, it would appear that Lonely Planet has never re-printed this 1994 edition of the guidebook, nor published a new one. This is why, despite the fact that the book is clearly well out of date, it surely remains the best guide to the region. Its advice on hotels and restaurants may no longer be perfect, but its wide sections on culture and society, its maps, its general advice, remain irreplaceable tools for the traveler.	2001-11-18
US	46267911	R2NTLXLUM8H1MN	1566911400	332966798	Tahiti Handbook Including Easter Island and the Cooks	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Outstanding and superb work, absolutely irresistible !	Many guidebooks have come out on the South Pacific, but this is most definitely at the top of the list.  Although Lonely Planet guides are - in my view - usually better and more comprehensive, in this case Moon Handbooks have surpassed them.  With superb maestry, David Stanley has put together a masterpiece, with a combination of unparalleled travel advice for all types of travellers, as well as easy-to-read, yet deep, insights into the history and reality of this fabulous region of the world.  Several factors add to the marvel of this book.  One is that Easter Island and the Cooks have been included, thus comprising in one single guidebook so many islands which, despite their geographical distance that separates them, have a lot in common.  Another is the unmistakeable talent of the author, so strong in all of his guidebooks.	2001-09-29
US	46267911	R2QA65LDUJYDN7	1864503610	475810211	Lonely Planet Breaking Ranks: Turbulent Travels in the Promised Land (Lonely Planet Travel Literature)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent material, well-written, and extremely useful !	This book constitutes an extremely useful tool and pleasant reading, for those interested in Israeli and Middle East politics and society, as well as travelers to the region (especially during this turbulent time).  It is excellent to have a view from the author about the current Middle East crisis.  While clearly standing on one side rather than the other, the author remains extremely objective and without any bias, in examining the causes and perspectives of the present Middle East crisis - a topic he clearly feels very strongly about.  The book is extremely well-written, ensuring pleasant and captivating reading for all.  Likewise, it contains extremely useful and up-to-date information, which will be of immense value for the traveler.  It is a book any traveler, especially if interested in politics and society, should take with herself / himself before leaving for the region.	2001-09-11
US	46267911	R36QTSE53W1VUB	1566913365	854827587	Moon Handbooks Fiji (Moon Fiji)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another outstanding work from this renowned guidebook writer	This last guidebook by David Stanley (the latest among his many guidebooks published by both Lonely Planet and Moon Handbooks, on regions as varied as Cuba, the South Pacific and Alaska), lives well up to the standard of his previous works. As such, it will not disappoint the reader. It comes as a brilliant tool for visiting the marvelous islands of Fiji, filled with plenty of background information on the local history, culture and current events, as well as invaluable advice for the traveler, with plenty of information and tips, on anything ranging from accommodation to eating, from night-life entertainment to snorkeling. All in all, there is nothing more to be added: once more, don't leave for Fiji without taking this extraordinary publication with you.	2001-08-29
US	46267911	RLE295IYXBMUQ	086442647X	326246567	Lonely Planet Dominican Republic & Haiti (1st ed)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A superiour endeavour, but could be improved.	Once more, Lonely Planet guidebooks set the standard, in providing essential advice, as well as wonderful insights on many issues, successfully targeting all kinds of travelers.  Yet, as any first edition of a travel guidebook, this one could be substantially better than it is now - which, I am sure, will likely be achieved by the time the second edition comes out.  Both sections on both countries are very good, though it must be remarked that the section on Haiti is - at least in my view - far less researched and refined than the impressive section on the Dominican Republic.  The author of the Haiti section is obviously a real Haiti lover, and she provides plenty of wonderful facts about Haiti's history and present, culture and society, which she is eager to share with her readers.  Yet, in my view, she fails to provide the best possible advice for travelers.  Coverage on hotels and places to eat, and entertainment in general, is poor.  On that, we add the fact that things are changing so rapidly in Haiti, which is beyond her control.  The section on the Dominican Republic, in contrast, provides just-about any information and avice a traveler could desire when traveling to the country.  Coverage of what to see and do in Santo Domingo, on hotels and restaurants, the many tips on how to behave (do's and dont's) etc, is truly excellent.  All in all, once more, this is a guidebook you should not take off without.	2001-08-19
US	46267911	R3LV90OS8GYB18	1900949776	267777527	Footprint Libya (Footprint Handbooks)	Books	4	29	31	N	N	It may not be Lonely Planet, but it is almost as great.	Libya is a wonderful country yet to be discoveted, which only opened up to foreign tourism in year 2000 amidst a deep economic crisis caused by internal factors as well as a foreign embargo. Finally, Libya is accessible for foreign travelers - and, not less importantly, reasonably safe. Yet, given the relative lack of infrastructure, and as the volume of tourism is still low, travelers are unlikely to really experience Libya unless they are in a group, which may not always be pleasant. In order to truly get to know this wonderful nation, the independent traveler needs some help. And indeed, in this wonderful guidebook is contained plenty of useful, if not invaluable, advice, on what to see in Libya, how to move around, and how to have a great time altogether. The author has clearly put an incredible amount of time and great effort into researching all and any information that can be useful to the traveler, and has done a great job overall. To my knowledge, this is the best travel guide to Libya, and I would strongly recommend to pack it in your luggage before setting off.  Yet, one aspect on which this guidebook is rather weak (compared for example to Lonely Planet guides), is on Libyan people and society.  This means that the guidebook is a little better suited for those wishing to visit historical sites etc, rather than those wishing to get into Lybian politics, society, culture, and Lybian life in general.  Yet, it is still a useful tool in that respect too.	2001-07-28
US	46267911	R2GN8L6SCRBW4V	1864500190	99197594	Lonely Planet Palau: Diving & Snorkeling	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent, and more than just a diving &amp; snorkeling guide !	I used by no means to be a fan of diving and snorkeling.  Yet, the beautiful seas of the Pacific, combined with this wonderful excellently written guidebook, introduced me to the wonderful world of this activity.  The guidebook provides excellent and invaluable information and advice for divers and snorkelers - beginners and experts alike - with special focus on how great this can be in Palau.  Meanwhile, the guidebook is also a wonderful travel tool for visiting Palau, whether or not you are primarily there for snorkeling and diving.  All in all, it is surely a worthwhile, if not crucial, purchase, before you set off to the Pacific.	2001-07-28
US	46267911	RHQOETBRU5J3S	1864500190	99197594	Lonely Planet Palau: Diving & Snorkeling	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent, and more than just a diving &amp; snorkeling guide !	I used by no means to be a fan of diving and snorkeling.  Yet, the beautiful seas of the Pacific, combined with this wonderful excellently written guidebook, introduced me to the wonderful world of this activity.  The guidebook provides excellent and invaluable information and advice for divers and snorkelers - beginners and experts alike - with special focus on how great this can be in Palau.  Meanwhile, the guidebook is also a wonderful travel tool for visiting Palau, whether or not you are primarily there for snorkeling and diving.  All in all, it is surely a worthwhile, if not crucial, purchase, before you set off to the Pacific.	2001-07-28
US	46267911	RFPLVNAHBMPJO	0864424221	775349683	Lonely Planet Eastern Caribbean (2nd ed)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Definitely a crucial tool for visiting the region !	For a long time, I had been trying to figure out how exactly the Caribbean is 'laid out'.  There are so many different independent nations, as well as colonial entities, overseas departments of France, etc. etc., all with their own character, different cultures and mentalities, different things to be discovered...  But it was altogether to figure it all out, and even to clearly list down the various separate entities to be visited and discovered.  Finally, with the aid of this wonderful Lonely Planet guidebook, I am able to establish that the Caribbean's small islands (i.e. excluding Cuba, Jamaica, Purto Rico, Haiti and Dominican Republic) include a total of 9 independent nations and 10 colonial entities.  This guidebook covers most of them, namely those in the Eastern part of the Caribbean, and provides wonderful insights into the culture, history and attractions of each.  As always, excellent travel advice is provided, ranging from what to do locally for having a great holiday (regardless of what you are looking for), to the also important issue of how to move around in this wonderful region.  This guidebook is a tool everyone should pack in their luggage.	2001-07-26
US	46267911	R108YY1LFB12GN	9562110419	957448913	Conversaciones con Nemesio Antunez	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent material, and excellently written !	An excellent book, by one of Chile's top journalists, providing wonderful insights into the life of renowned Chilean national painter Nemesio Antunez.  The book, furthermore, contains plenty of colour reproductions of Antunez's works.  All in all, a definite must for anyone interested in the subject.	2001-07-23
US	46267911	R28L17Z3WQJ3UH	0864426372	746486052	Lonely Planet Tibet (4th ed)	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Don't leave for Tibet without it !	This guidebook is certainly among Lonely Planet's best.  It is at the same time an excellent travel guide, and also a fantastic yet concise source of insights into the life of this wonderful land.  Anyone traveling to Tibet will inevitably encounter a number of restrictions on her/his travel, and will have to stick to the Chinese government's directives and itineraries.  It is indeed hard to leave Tibet without a feeling that one was not really able to 'go deep' into its culture.  This book might not compensate for the frustrating limitations posed to travelers by the Chinese government, but it certainly goes a good way towards that direction.  It contains tips on how to make the most out of your trip, especially in terms of getting to know 'real' Tibet.  Its sections on culture, religion and history are excellently written and captivating.  All in all, a fantastic endeavour.	2001-07-16
US	46267911	R1U0JNTWLD3DTC	0864426860	318727899	Lonely Planet Iceland, Greenland & the Faroe Islands	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Excellent as always, but with an evident author's partiality	As always, Lonely Planet provides excellent and authoritative up-to-date guidebooks, and such an endeavour deserves no less than four stars.  Yet, even the best guidebook writers can commit errors and flaws.  In this particular guidebook, I find a strong and definite partiality by the author, positively biased towards the places and peoples he writes about.  It is of course understandable, that an author would like her or his area of coverage to be the nicest in the world, with the most marvelous people, and everything else wonderful.  Unfortunately this is not always the case.  And it is certainly not the case for this particular part of the world.  Indeed, it would be far worse and horrible, if the author were biased against - rather than in favour of - the people and land they are writing about (which is rare, but happened in the Armenia chapter of the LP guide on Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan).  So, here once again we find a great LP guidebook, but which turns a particular part of part of the world into the most fantastic thing on Earth, without flaws or bad sides to it - which unfortunately is not the case.  Iceland may be a nice country, but Reykjav&iacute;k is one of the most boring and ugly cities I ever found, and Icelandics can be very introverted and stiff.  Nature of course is beautiful, but it is not found everywhere on the island.  Greenland is also nice, but the author seriously fails to mention - among other things - that Kangerlussuaq (the only international hub, to where you are bound to fly if you come from Copenhagen) is no more than an airport and some old military barracks, and its population of 400 souls are all airport staff !  So I planned a nice couple of days in Greenland, and that is where I found myself for a good start...  The Faroe islands also offer some beautiful sights, but I really did not find it any more interesting than Ireland or Scotland or so many places in continental Northern Europe or Scandinavia.  The capital city, T&oacute;rshavn, is probably one of the most boring places on this planet, full of locals getting drunk and being nasty to visitors.  I found the Faroese people (described as very &quot;warm&quot; in the book) to be the most rude and cold I have ever met - and I have been to 157 countries so far !  I would therefore recommend readers to buy this guidebook nevertheless, but take its enthusiasm with extreme caution.  First of all, by all means, do not set off to that part of the world just because you are captivated by this book.  Secondly, once you do get there, do not take everything in the book for granted, and try and use other sources (local tourist offices are usually helpful, as they are run by the state).  This book is an excellent tool of publicity for the region, and I cannot blame the author for falling in love with it, but readers should be warned of the book's excessively positive coverage of just about everything.s probably one of the most boring places on this planet, full of locals getting drunk and being nasty to visitors.  I found the Faroese people (described as very &quot;warm&quot; in the book) to be the most rude and cold I have ever met - and I have been to 157 countries so far !  I would therefore recommend readers to buy this guidebook nevertheless, but take its enthusiasm with extreme caution.  First of all, by all means, do not set off to that part of the world just because you are captivated by this book.  Secondly, once you do get there, do not take everything in the book for granted, and try and use other sources (local tourist offices are usually helpful, as they are run by the state).  This book is an excellent tool of publicity for the region, and I cannot blame the author for falling in love with it, but readers should be warned of the book's excessively positive coverage of just about everything.	2001-06-24
US	46267911	R2V2ZIMOGRF4QT	0694525138	386789289	Why Can't I Fall in Love?: A 12-Step Program	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exciting, wonderful...  The ultimate recipe for real love !	The feeling of not being able to fall in love, is a common thing in contemporary societies - not to mention the many cases of where people 'force' themselves to fall in love, only to realize later on that the feeling of real love was not there.  So many people today turn to counselling, to friends, or others, seeking advice from people and from books - from the classics to the new.  Few would ever dream of seeking advice on this issue from a Hasidic rabbi.  Yet, once again the unparalleled and unrivalled Shmuel Boteach, probably the world's most dynamic orthodox rabbi, offers the world his insights on this topic.  In a style that is at the same time thoughtful and entertaining, deep yet easy-to-read and enjoyable, Boteach's book is a whole fantastic experience of inner-self discovery for the reader.  It explores issues of crucial concern, suggesting answers and solutions, yet without imposing the reader's view.  Shmuel Boteach's books on love and relationships, will very likely be down in history along those of Voltaire and Simone de Beauvoir.  And at the age of 36, this is probably just the beginning for the Voltaire of the XXI century, Shmuel Boteach.	2001-06-23
US	46267911	R228ANKMCGNTA1	1574882368	312926326	Blue Helmets: The Strategy of UN Military Operations	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Useful, interesting, truly a breakthrough in many respects	Many books have been written on UN peace-keeping and peace-enforcement operations.  This one is one more interesting, useful and well-written book, well-research and sound, well-written at all times.  It offers more than many other books, in its analysis and views on the strategy of UN military operations from a 'strategic' point of view, thus offering some comparisons with the strategies that may be used by the adversaries or other forces, etc.  It is a book of political science, but also military studies.  A definite must for whoever is interested in either, since the former does - unfortunately - often involve the latter.	2001-06-01
US	46267911	R33WKSMA5BL69H	0198763905	795373745	Documents on the Laws of War	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best collection of documents on this subjects	Renowned Oxford scholar Adam Roberts, once again has been able to put together an outstanding work, in collecting documents on the laws and by-laws of international treaties and pacts, international declarations and conventions, etc.  The book is a reference book.  However, it is also an extremely interesting and useful tool (for those interested in those matters) to 'browse through' from time to time.  It is a book that cannot miss from the library of any international law expert.  While it may be needed from time to time for a quick consultation on specific points, it will also provide huge amounts of information on the legal insights of international conflict.	2001-06-01
US	46267911	R3I6MLN6ZF15I	1892941619	29063440	Journey to the Heart of Cuba: Life As Fidel Castro	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another great hit by one of Cuba's (exiled) top writers	Carlos Alberto Montaner re-explores the history of Cuba in the last half century, with particular attention on the present period.  He does this filled with his own feelings as a Cuban exile, yet he does not become subjective, and offers views and opinions without imposing them.  The book is filled with passion, with anecdotes, with feelings, and is guaranteed to be of immense interest to anyone studying Cuba or just interested in Cuba.  Indeed, it is one of those books that are at the same time a pseudo-academic or journalistic study, but also a novel-style book (a novel which, in the case of Cuba, is sadly true).	2001-06-01
US	46267911	R60ZUPFTQ4YWH	0312123248	755326724	The UN Security Council and Human Rights	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well worth its price	This book is now only available in hardback.  However, it is most certainly worth it.  The intricate relations between the UN Security Council and the whole machinery of UN human rights treaty implementation and treaty monitoring are explored, with excellent results.  The book is also extremely well documented, well written, and offering the author's views which however do not impose themselves on the objectivity of the subject.  It is a book I would recommend to all those interested in the subject, and it is - to my knowledge - the only major successful study on the relations between that specific UN body, namely the Security Council, and the complex UN human rights machinery.	2001-06-01
US	46267911	R1CDN4YHFY4TP5	0864427506	870594627	Lonely Planet Cuba	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An outstanding work, despite inevitable local restrictions	It is not easy to write a book about Cuba, whether it be a book on politics and society, or whether it be simply a travel guidebook.  Cuba remains a communist island under the iron fist of a minority, and all research work, all travel, all writing, is closely scrutinized by the central apparatus.  Despite the restrictions he must have met in such a situation, author David Stanley has produced a truly outstanding work, a perfect guide for the traveler who may wish to go to Cuba for the most disparate reasons, from sightseeing to good food, from snorkeling to biking, etc.  David has truly been throughout the island, getting to know all its cities and places far better than a local.  Well done !  It will be hard to replace, with a book, the emotions, the warmth, the spirit of Cuba which can only be found on the island itself.  Nevertheless, this book is certainly very close to achieving that, and will be a true companion throguhout your journey to this wonderful Caribbean island, the star of the Caribbean, the biggest of the Antilles, as it has been called on different occasions.	2001-06-01
US	46267911	R2Y4OCSZYL7CPM	8835933811	387374924	Io e Berlusconi (e la Rai) (I libelli) (Italian Edition)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Boring, nauseating, stiff political propaganda	This book by Walter Veltroni, a leading Italian communist who was working for and paid by the KGB until just over ten years ago, and now claims to no longer be a 'neo-communist', is no more than stiff propaganda against a man whom he envies from all points of view - political, personal, social.  The book does contain some useful information for those who might want to do research on the turbulent topic of television in Italy, but the biased and useless views of the author make it almost worthless.	2001-05-13
US	46267911	R2XFI62ISHVW7N	086442292X	356187409	Lonely Planet Ethiopia Eritrea and Djibouti (Lonely Planet Travel Survival Kit)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	LP guides are great, but this is even better !	It is hard to give this guidebook the rating it deserves, since I gave five stars to many other Lonely Planet guidebooks already.  This one, among them all, is perhaps the best one I have used.  It provides great information for the traveler, with plenty of tips, and I have not found one single error or flaw.  Meanwhile, all the information and advice are filled with a great sense of humour, and marvelous writing style, which must come from the author herself.  Deep knowledge on the region also transpires from the book, which provides extremely thrilling and interesting insights into the region's history and culture.  All in all, the author did a great unparalleled job.  Also in consideration of her captivating look in the photograph, I wish I could meet her and personally congratulate her.  Frances, even though I don't know you, well done !  I wonder if we might have a Lonely Planet guide on Somalia come out soon, perhaps written by the same author.	2001-04-28
US	46267911	R131L59F9DM82	1856498417	415996078	East Timor: The Price of Freedom (Politics in Contemporary Asia)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An absolute must for any study of East Timor	John Taylor simply sets the standard, with this new and comprehensive text, on a subject in which he has long been an authority.  The book is tremendously comprehensive, approaching a variety of issues relating to East Timor's past and recent history as well as the present.  It offers analyses, always well substantiated, and without giving excessive space to the author's own subjective views.  It is well written and easy-to-read.  All in all, it is a book that should be read by anyone studying this topic, whether a beginner or expert.	2001-04-06
US	46267911	RY2GTTXFDLOJ5	0312226985	882950211	Why Peacekeeping Fails	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A good analysis by someone who knows what he is writing on	So often and so regrettably, books by diplomats and former diplomats tend to be boring recollections of memoirs, trying to give the author's views on countries and issues of which the authors themselves understood little or nothing.  I am thinking, among others, about Nathaniel Davis' book on Allende's Chile, which was at the same time a brilliant self-defence statement denying US intervention in the 1973 coup.  In contrast, this book by Christopher Jett, a former US ambassador to Mozambique, is a thorough analysis of events, offering personal views insofar as any author rightly has these, but without becoming a boring recollection of personal stories.  Ambassador Jett offers us a rigorous analysis of why peace-keeping succeeded in Mozambique and failed in Angola.  It provides excellent material on these two conflicts and the UN intervention there, and on the respective countries and their internal politics.  Likewise, the book is also excellent reading, vividly written and captivating - much more than diplomats can usually be.  I would recommend this title to anyone studying comparative conflict studies and conflict resolution, or/and the politics of that part of Africa.	2001-04-06
US	46267911	R1XL9EWDTMGS4R	031226934X	295295625	From the Place of the Dead: The Epic Struggles of Bishop Belo of East Timor	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Chilling, clear, direct... unfortunately it's all true	Many books have already been written about the tragic events of East Timor between 1998 and today, namely since when the regime of president Suharto of Indonesia collapsed, and the territory started on its slow, exciting, yet very painful path towards independence.  Some books are more academic, others more journalistic and speculative.  This book by Arnold Kohen, a long-time East Timor expert, makes it clear that the author is no academic or journalist in search of quick success.  He is someone who has followed East Timor for a while, and has also been active and become known as a prominent East Timor lobbyist.  He has now been able to recollect in this book some excellent material, excellently edited, about Monsignor Belo's role in the struggle for independence.  The book is written in a vivid style, it is chilling, it is direct, yet (despite the rather eye-catching and shocking title) without leaving the place to any sensationalism...  All the book says is, very unfortunately, totally true.  Whether Bishop Belo's struggles could be defined as &quot;epic&quot; is another matter.  Meanwhile, this book makes a strong and meaningful contribution to knowledge on the recent events, and also makes excellent, educative and even pleasant, if shocking, reading.	2001-04-06
US	46267911	R322G663Q1WKNE	0864427131	528935443	Lonely Planet Russia, Ukraine & Belarus (LONELY PLANET RUSSIA AND BELARUS)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Much better than the previous edition, truly a must !	It is undoubtedly hard to write a good guidebook on countries like Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, where the situation has been changing daily for the last 12 years, in almost every aspect of life.  Hotels, restaurants and other outlets change.  Styles of life change, as do security and the uninspiring state bureaucracy.  Yet, Lonely Planet has successfully overcome this challenge, and produced an excellent guidebook, perhaps only slight below its usual excellent standard.  Information on Moscow, St. Petersburg, Kiev, etc, is thorough and wise, and is a must for any traveler.  The guidebook is perhaps weaker on other, more remote, regions of these three countries, as one would expect.  The facts about the country (history, culture, etc) are of great interest and excellently written.  This is definitely a book not to be left out of your baggage before you take off.	2001-03-28
US	46267911	RSQT5VKJ4TQ84	0198279264	405382970	United Nations, Divided World: The UN's Roles in International Relations	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Probably the most comprehensive and useful book on the UN	Oxford academic Adam Roberts, long considered the most influential expert on the subject of the UN system, has produced an excellent book, with great academic rigour, very comprenehsive, and very concise (or at least as concise as it could possibly be, given the enormous amount and variety of issues covered therein).  With great ability, the author manages to highlight the positive and negative sides of the UN system and its work, criticizing them where appropriate and by giving very thorough explanations, and praising them in other respects.  It offers information and analysis on the major challenges confronted by the UN in the recent past, and those likely to arise in the near future.  The book is an absolute must for anyone wishing to know more on the UN system.  It is suitable both for those intending to learn the basics, and those who are on a start of deep research work on the subject.  It is a serious academic study, yet easy to read and even enjoyable.	2001-03-26
US	46267911	R1MT4K816KJZT6	0864426801	761580740	Lonely Planet Georgia, Armenia & Azerbaijan	Books	3	42	45	N	N	Useful, but far below the Lonely Planet standard	I have always been a great admirer and user of Lonely Planet guidebooks, but this time they really produced a rather poor work.  On one side I can't blame them, as the region is hard to get to know, and this probably remains the best guidebook about it anyway.  On the other hand, lots of data are simply wrong, for which I can see no reasonable excuse.  For example, the  guidebook says that there are daily flights betwen Tbilisi and Yerevan, while there have been no scheduled flights since the collapse of the USSR in 1989 !  And contrary to what is written, KLM, Northwest or Alitalia have never flown to Yerevan.  The guidebook says that there are buses from Armenia to Turkey, and on the very same page it also says that it is impossible to get from Armenia to Turkey except via Georgia...  Overall, there is very little this guidebook can tell you on how to get around within the region.  The guidebook gives plenty of information on hotels in Tbilisi which are supposedly good, while they are now filled by refugees (surely an interesting and touching thing to see, but not where you might wish to stay).  The major internet caf&eacute; they recommend in Tbilisi does not exist.  Many addresses are simply wrong (either old or non-existent).  The book  makes a lot of fuss about the corruption and unclear regulations of Armenian and other border officials, which is not the case (for example in Armenia you CAN get a visa at any border for 25 $ which is valid for 3 days, and when you leave you pay 3 $ for each day you oversayed your visa) - no corruption, no problems.  The book gives lots of concerns about safety and other issues which are unnecessary, and especially in its Armenia section it seems to be biasedly 'anti-local' (something one would never expect from a guidebook).  Overall, it seems poorly researched and not always well written.  The chapter on Nagorno-Karabakh is ridiculously short (4 pages), not to mention the one on Abkhazia (less than two pages !).  Nevertheless, some information is indeed useful and sometimes even correct, and you are better off taking this guide with you to the region, rather than being without it.  Just take its advice with a lot of caution, and don't take any of its data for granted.information is indeed useful and sometimes even correct, and you are better off taking this guide with you to the region, rather than being without it.  Just take its advice with a lot of caution, and don't take any of its data for granted.	2001-02-28
US	46267911	R15DAT6U2YUHOD	0691029792	913413414	Idolatry and Its Enemies	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A great source to a disappearing and fascinating culture	I believe this is the only thorough study on this subject, relating to issues which may be lost very soon along with the hispanization processes that have intensified in the last few decades. As the old generations are replaced by the more modernized youth, a wonderful fascinating culture disappears. This book ensures, at the least, that it will go down in history, and in a very complete and meaningful way. The book itself is excellently written, and great to read.	2001-02-04
US	46267911	R23BIAD939R47Q	1876175184	796444828	Capitalism in Crisis: Globalization and World Politics Today	Books	1	19	74	N	N	Expensive toilet paper, and it's not soft !	How can Fidel Castro make such an assertion, that capitalism is in crisis ?  Having been to Cuba numberless times since 1993 until today, I have seen no other place in worse crisis than Cuba.  If someone can claim that our Western capitalism is in crisis, Fidel Castro is surely not the best person to make such a claim.  This book, filled with communist propaganda and Castro's old rhetoric, is a great tool for Castro to confuse those individuals who, for lack of better information or other reasons, still believe in the myth of world revolution and world socialism.  The book is badly written, and I find it highly nauseating.  Yet, by all means it is a book all scholars of Cuba or communism should read !  From that point of view, the book is an extremely valuable source of information on the thought (and &quot;ideology&quot;, if you believe in such a thing) of Fidel Castro and his accolytes.  But apart from that, the book is no more than expensive toilet paper, and I would not recommend it to anyone who is not working on the subject with a genuine interest in it.  If you do share views close to those of Fidel Castro, there are plenty of great world academics even in the US (just think of Noam Chomsky), who are of far different calibre than Mr. Castro.  Their books will never disappoint, whether or not you share those views.	2001-01-15
US	46267911	R2QZ6JZTLQPA7B	0873484975	843955791	How Far We Slaves Have Come!: South Africa and Cuba in Today's World	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Great book by a great man, but with an unfortunate foreword	I am giving this book a 5-star rating, but this is not an easy choice for me to make. I am providing such rating, in view of the great and crucial subject the book is approaching, and how well it does so. It is (sadly) a contemporary subject, which needs to be studied by anyone interested in world politics - or in fact, by anyone wishing to stand for just causes. I am of course referring to the abhorrent issue of racial discrimination in South Africa, and elsewhere in the world. In this book Nelson Mandela - a personality whom I greatly esteem and admire, like most of us surely do - addresses the tragic issue of racial discrimination in his country, the &quot;conspiracy of silence&quot; by the West which, for half a century, let things be as they were. He also comments on some aspects of world capitalism which he believes contributed to such a situation in South Africa (views which I share only partially and with great reservations, yet which deserve our closest attention). Nelson Mandela has uncovered some evils of Western society, proposing views we may or may not agree with, but which are well substantiated and not mere 'propaganda'. However, I am deeply saddened to see a great freedom fighten like Nelson Mandela co-write this book, even if only in the form of a foreword, with communist dictator Fidel Castro. The circumstances are clear, and ultimately depend on us Westerners: it is entirely our fault, if Nelson Mandela had no other choice than recurr to aid from the socialist block, in order to fight for his country's long-overdue freedom. I can therefore reproach nothing to Mr. Mandela, and can only congratulate him for this book. Yet, I remain saddened by the presence in this same book of writings by one of the world's worst dictators, namely Fidel Castro of Cuba. What on Earth do these two authors have in common ? The first was the ultimate liberator of his Land. The latter is a bloody dictator who keeps millions of people in political prisons under inhuman conditions. In the book, I trust that any democratically-minded person will see a lot more sense in the writings of Mr. Mandela than those of his co-author. The latter, indeed, are likely to nauseate. All in all it is a great book, excellently written and edited, full of contens and analysis. By all means, it is a book to be read and you will enjoy it. But you would enjoy it even more, were Fidel Castro out of the way.onditions. In the book, I trust that any democratically-minded person will see a lot more sense in the writings of Mr. Mandela than those of his co-author. The latter, indeed, are likely to nauseate. All in all it is a great book, excellently written and edited, full of contens and analysis. By all means, it is a book to be read and you will enjoy it. But you would enjoy it even more, were Fidel Castro out of the way.	2001-01-15
US	46267911	R33U4K50KKBGFE	0393305309	153377132	Closest of Enemies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great study, concise, objective and rigorous.	As a former Head of the US Interests Section (USIS) in Havana, Wayne Smith has not just lived the politics of Cuban - US relations, but has actually made some.  After representing the US under President Carter in the tiny Caribbean dictatorship, a nation subject to tight US economic sanctions, Wayne Smith has come forward to speak about those sanctions.  While he does not support the Cuban regime or its ideology in any way (neither do I), he believes that the embargo is strongly counter-productive, as it ends up helping Castro in his goal of resisting foreign influence and trends towards change.  This is an argument most scholars agree with, and is surely not new.  Yet, in this book Wayne Smith has been able to put forward the argument in a very particular light, from the point of view of someone who actually represented the embargo-enforcing nation for several years, and then had a sharp change in opinion.  The book is extremely well written.  As an academic study it is highly rigorous and extremely subjective: the author criticizes diverging views, but does not attack them just out of differences, and he manages to substantiate and argue his own views extremely well.  The book is concise and clear, simple to read and even enjoyable.  It is an absolute must for anyone approaching the delicate issue of Cuban - US relations in the current period.	2001-01-11
US	46267911	R1C6VPQYH2YX7W	8420428906	964950251	El Anfitrion (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	En los a&ntilde;os 70, entre el muro de Berl&iacute;n y Pinochet en Chile	S&oacute;lo quiero dar unas palabras de grande aprecio para este trabajo fant&aacute;stico de Jorge Edwards, gran escritor qui&eacute;n considero el m&aacute;s grande escritor chileno en vida, y a qui&eacute;n tengo el placer de conocer personalmente. Esta novela, muy f&aacute;cil de leer, con prosa excelente y ritmo de gran suspance, nos trae de vuelta a la tensi&oacute;n de la guerra fr&iacute;a, entre la Alemania de H&ouml;necker y el Chile de Pinochet. Para m&iacute; que en esa &eacute;poca ni hab&iacute;a nacido es un cuento memorable. Se lo aconsejo a todos !	2001-01-04
US	46267911	R3JNOXXVV24AX3	0060187344	350370805	The Collected Speeches of Margaret Thatcher	Books	4	3	5	N	N	not boring at all - good material, excellently written !	It is rare for books of 'collected speeches' or 'collected writings' not to be boring.  But this book isn't.  Perhaps because most if not all the speeches are thrilling and interesting, perhaps because they are excellently edited and written, perhaps because of their layout...  All these things enabled the Rt. Hon. Lady Margaret The Baroness Thatcher to compile a truly fascinating collection of Her speeches during, before, and after Her years at Downing Street.  For those interested in Thatcherism and British politics in general, this book will be an immensely valuable source of material, filled with easy-to-find data, information, and The Baroness Thatcher's views, on a variety of topics and issues, from Europe to the Falklands War, from international politics to tarde unions and taxing...  For those of you who share the views and like the ways of The Baroness Thatcher, the book will be even more wonderful, as you'll be able to figure Her speak and debate, as if She were there, as you leaf through this excellent collection of Her speeches.  For all others, it will still be excellent reading, pleasant and memorable.	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R32SAY3GPEKQTJ	0864424833	865462255	Lonely Planet Bhutan (1st ed)	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Again, Lonely Planet got there first - excellent outcome !	I have no bounds whatsoever to the Lonely Planet publishing house, other than a deep emotional affection towards their guidebooks. Yet, as a world traveler, I cannot but admire their comprehensive coverage of virtually every corner of the world. Almost every place you could dream of visiting is covered in one or more of their guidebooks. And as one would expect... they also made it to this tiny Himalayan kingdom, where less than 4'000 tourists visit each year. The guidebook is great and contains all you need - plenty of information, data, tips, advice, as well as very well written (actually fascinating !) sections on the local history, culture, religion, architecture, etc. At first impact, the guidebook may prove a little disappointing to you, as it explains that most travelers can only go to Bhutan on a guided tour. But this is not quite what it sounds: a guided tour will be tailored just for you - with only 4'000 tourists a year you won't mind being 'guided'. Since you are likely to be in Bhutan with your own guide, this book may not be an essential tool for travel survival, but it surely is a wonderful tool that will make your stay more enjoyable and fascinating. It will enable you to tell your guide what you want to see, to make your itinerary, etc. It will enable you to choose your preferred hotels or restaurants (to be agreed with your tour operator in Bhutan), and even decide where to do your shopping (the choice in Thimphu consists in two or three superb local markets !). But the most valuable sections are probably those on the local culture, an unspoiled culture where the people practice their faith through millenary religious traditions. The guidebook will tell you things you will want to know about the people, their monasteries, their life ! If you go and don't have it with you, you may regret it. ...	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R2WX3E7NWABRU8	0785924655	38280062	Chroniques de la Ville de Pierre	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An author who deserves much greater recognition	This is the first novel I read by this great Albanian author.  In fact it is the first Albanian book I ever read, back in 1991, when I first visited Albania.  Through the pages of this book, its fine prose, its vivid accounts, transpire the feelings of the author regarding his alienation from his motherland, and the concern for the latter's suffering.  This is a masterpiece of contemporary fiction writing, by an author who would have had the chance of much greater recognition, had history gone differently in the troubled yet so beautiful Balkan nation.  If you are on to read a novel with a different spirit, by all means don't miss out on this book.	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R7YW16C81DLEF	0312233213	366570937	The Political Economy of Globalization	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another top hit by this renowned Oxford academic	Once more, Ngaire Woods has been able to collect top-quality essays by world-known colleagues, editing them with superb mustery, to put them in this book, a masterpiece within the subject of international relations.  The book explores a number of issues within the vast field of globalization.  The chapters do this from the point of view of the process' political economy, but also from a theoretical point of view.  The authors' views come across in the chapters, but with superb substantiation for these views, and carefully considering others without always recurring to counter-factual arguments.  All the chapters are easy-to-read, not heavy reading at all, written in a vivid style and captivating.  All in all, a must for those studying the subject, and great reading.	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R3VNHPQ9IDWN0F	0864426739	346803788	Lonely Planet Central Asia (2nd Edition)	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Truly a travel survival tool in this magnificent region	The first edition of Lonely Planet's Central Asia guide was not up to their usual standard.  Its data and advice was incomplete and even wrong, but more than anything, it was out-of-date beforen it was published: things had changed a great deal in Central Asia, between 1991 when the countries became independent, and 1996 when the guide was published.  But finally, this second recent edition of the book fully compensates for those lacks.  Truly up-to-date, it offers all the advice, tips and information that travellers expect to get from Lonely Planet.  And in this region, you'll need it !  Even if you speak Russian like myself, this is not an easy region to travel around.  The people are nice and hospitable, the places are marvellous, but the first impact can be very negative and gloomy.  It can be hard or impossible to get around - visas and other bureaucratic problems, flights and trains which may or may not run, hotels which may or may not exist...  You won't know what to do or where to go, and once you do you may realize you should have done otherwise.  With this guide, you won't be lost.  It will truly be your companion during the whole journey, whether or not you are familiar with the region.  And it will also provide excellent and very plesant reading with its sections on culture, history, politics, etc.  Last but not least, this edition contains two new sections on Afghanistan and on China's Xinjiang province.  Afghanistan will be hard to visit so far (but not impossible - ask me !), yet the information is invaluable and highly interesting.  Xinjiang is a destination which, thanks to the information contained in this guidebook (and ONLY thanks to that information, which you won't find elsewhere !), you will be able to combine with your trip to the five former Soviet nations of Central Asia.  Buy it now, and you will be on your way even sooner than you plan.	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R3F468I0HEZ6HZ	0897297792	148878085	Alpha 66: Y Su Historica Tarea (Coleccion Cuba y Sus Jueces) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excelente, muy bien escrito - y muy bien hecho !	Este libro es una parte de la historia de Cuba, la historia para la liberaci&oacute;n de la isla caribe&ntilde;a de la dictadura castrista.  Es la historia de los tantos mujeres y hombres que desde el esilio, desde haca ya cuarenta a&ntilde;os, luchan por la liberaci&oacute;n y la democracia de su tierra natal.  El libro nos ofrece portanto la historia de Alpha 66, gran organizaci&oacute;n luchadora dirigida por el incansable Andr&eacute;s Nazario Sargeant, la cual contribuy&oacute; a las tentativas de derrumbar el liderazgo castrista.  Eso lamentablemente nunca dio el resultado espero, sin embargo Alpha 66, sus mujers y hombres, su historia, siempre seguir&aacute; siendo parte central de esta dura etapa de la historia de Cuba.  Resulta portanto indispensable la existencia de este libro, el cual contiene excelente material de referencia, discursos, textos, y muchas fotograf&iacute;as, los cuales todos siempre ser&aacute;n tambi&eacute;n parte de la historia.  Muy bien escrito, muy bien compilado, muy bien publicado por el querido Juan Manuel Salv&aacute;t, este es un libro que todo cubano, y todo qui&eacute;n se sienta cercano a la lucha anticastrista, deber&iacute;a tener.	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R3VXJSTF2U0J3G	0812932323	156077656	East and West: China, Power, and the Future of Asia	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A great fascinating book, which will go down in history	Chris Patten has seen and lived things which few other Westerners lived.  As the last Governor of Her Britannic Majesty in the former British colony, Chris Patten has not just lived history, but made it.  This book therefore comes as an indispensable tool for understanding the political, social and economic change of Hong Kong, China and Asia in the late twentieth century.  It is extremely well-written, very long yet concise and pleasant to read, and filled with truly interesting and relevant information - for the expert and the casual reader alike.  A wonderful reading for almost everyone.	2000-12-31
US	46267911	R3KW9HBX8QSS6R	0140264035	376605514	Letters from Burma	Books	5	87	90	N	N	Much more than just a book !	This is not just a book.  Along with Aung San Suu Kyi's two other major books (&quot;Freedom from Fear&quot; and &quot;Voice of Hope&quot;), this book is destined to be at the heart of the struggle - and eventually the victory - for democracy in Burma.  Among the three, this is the one I found most wonderful.  Vivid, direct, it makes the reader feel as if she/he is listening to Suu Kyi, with her wonderful Asian voice and Oxford accent.  Suu Kyi talks about Burma, about her people, about herself.  She tells of the tragedies of her people, in the most natural and serene way, as if she were telling of everyday life - because indeed, this is the Burmese everyday life.  She does not inflate things, she does not push for her views, yet she reaches the reader's heart immediately - at least she did with me !  She simply expresses views and feelings along with plenty of thrilling facts and anecdotes.  I can't imagine of any reader who won't love this book and won't feel inspired by this account from Burma's heroine.  After reading this and the other books, I felt so close to Burma's struggle that I absoliutely had to go there and meet Suu in person.  So I did, I took off for Burma and managed to meet her.  I had met many world personalities before, but this was truly a unique event in my life.  The pages of the book kept coming back to my mind, as I could finally see the source of all that strength and hope, the incarnation of Burma's struggle.  In the end I was deported from Burma for having made contact with her.  Now these books are my inspiration to keep fighting on for democracy in Burma in all ways I can.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R9VLSR0MG49YX	0897297962	759411711	Mi infancia en Cuba: lo visto y lo vivido por una niña cubana de doce años	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An incredible witness, by a 14-year-old girl	Cosette Alves was one among 13 millions Cubans, slaves under Fidel Castro's evil regime.  She has seen it all: the schools (in fact concentration and labour camps), the policy of indoctrination, the lack of any freedom of expression...  She went through brainwashing and her life was not easy, but she made it out and told all she had to tell.  An amazing account of how this young yet extremely mature girl saw Cuba and her repressive regime, how she lived it in her everyday life.  The book is thrilling, exciting, explosive !	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R2DAHPOZUF8LXO	0822321238	850108562	The Dictator Next Door: The Good Neighbor Policy and the Trujillo Regime in the Dominican Republic, 1930-1945 (American Encounters/Global Interactions)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Thrilling views on a crucial issue, but poorly substantiated	This book approaches a topic which deserves serious attention by scholars of international relations - much more than is happening.  It approaches this topic from an interesting and rather revisionist point of view, offering the author's views and some interpretations.  Yet, the study is not so subjective, and not at all substantiated by facts.  All in all interesting reading, new views to talk and argue about, but nothing really new or inspiring.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R5IJA3CULUVO8	0140253173	66324477	Freedom from Fear and Other Writings: Revised Edition	Books	5	40	41	N	N	An incarnation of Burma's struggle and hope	Once more, Nobel Peace prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi presents us with a thrilling book, of which she is the author, but also being the incarnation of Burma's struggle for democracy.  This book is (to use a rather 'heretic' term) a 'bible' of Burma's struggle for freedom, and is destined to go down among the books who made the country's and the region's history.  You will read it in two or three hours without putting it down.  This one, among her three major books, is particularly well-written, edited by her late husband Dr Michael Aris (Peace be Upon Him).  Suu Kyi's account is fervid, direct, impartial.  She expresses her views with submission, total lack of any aggression or resentment, peace of mind...  She manages, through her writings, not just to tell of her country's bloodshed and terror regime, but also to convey a marvellous great feeling of peace and hope, in fact, freedom from fear !  She talks of the country and her people, and also of herself, explaining how she approached - emotionally and psychologically - the struggle during almost a decade of home arrest or controlled movements.  She provides a recipe for all those who, with her courage, would like to join the battle for world justice.  Truly a wonderful book, by one of the world's most wonderful persons, whom I met in Rangoon in 1998, and being deported from the country as a result.  May G-d bless her, her country, and her struggle.  Meanwhile, you might find in this book some inspiration and strength - to fight for similar causes, or just to live your everyday life.  Wonderful !	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R10EQ02LFQLB6O	1864501081	177993792	Lonely Planet Mozambique	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Truly a vital tool for visitors to this revitalized nation !	Mozambique has only recently re-opened to tourism, after years of war and bloodshed.  Fortunately the hard times are now over, and the country is once again a thriving, wonderful African nation.  I loved it all - the people, the food, the music...  With this Lonely Planet guide, I was really able to get the most out of my stay.  It contains plenty of advice on visiting places, hotels, restaurants, etc.  And also great advice on how to save money - indeed, Mozambique can be very expensive !  A country and a book I won't forget.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	RBEVZKDT4J159	0679432965	621445218	My American Journey: An Autobiography	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Rather boring... many opportunities lost !	Unless you are in love with Colin Powell or his career, this book can be awfully boring.  A lot of exciting issues arise, as Powell tells of his journey from nowhere, from the poor Bronx, to one of America's top positions.  But the account is not condensed enough.  It lacks fervour, it is not well written.  Yes, indeed the author's 'charisma' transpires through his words - and that is it, for those who, like me, are simply unable to feel his charisma !  Colin Powell's American Journey must have surely been more exciting than his relationships with his mother as a teenager, or getting drunk when he was serving in Germany.  The Cold War was happening, then the Gulf War !  He must surely have lived these, but does not seem to have captured the atmosphere of those things - which, as a military, we should not expect him to do.  All in all, it may be a good book for those fascinated by Mr Powell, fascinated by his career, but it's surely a very boring version of an &quot;American journey&quot;.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R1P7Q6832O2TR1	0932813496	679760244	Ancient Micronesia & the Lost City of Nan Madol: Including Palau, Yap, Kosrae, Chuuk & the Marianas (Lost Cities of the Pacific)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Rigorous or not, this book is great reading !	Indeed, as other reviewers have also observed, some of the contents of this book come from uncertain sources.  Some of its parts are more serious, some less so.  But all in all, this book does provide a great insight into the culture and life of ancient Micronesia - and it's one of very few books that accomplish this.  It is written in a vivid style, easy to read, serving also as a guidebook to some extent for those visiting the region.  For armchair travellers, real travellers, scholars of Micronesia, and others, this is a book I recommend !  Just take it with some caution if you are looking for academic rigour.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R12PXHCLSL4R09	0295978244	31893729	Over the Lip of the World: Among the Storytellers of Madagascar (Samuel and Althea Stroum Books)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A personal account, but interesting and well-written	Yes, I fully agree with the previous reviewer from Louisiana.  This is not a book for those who want to get to know Madagascar and Malagasy culture or history.  At the most, in that direction, it provides some 'atmosphere' of Africa for those who have never been there.  The book is indeed a personal account of the reader's feelings, as she rediscovered herself during her trip to that wonderful Indian Ocean island.  Yet, this is a good subject, and the book is well-written, filled with thrill.  I liked it.  As long as it is presented as what it is and not something else, I recommend it to those interested in the former.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R1TAXB8IM4CH8V	1864500549	958651247	Lonely Planet Moscow (Moscow, 1st Ed)	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Truly a kit for travel survival !	Moscow is a wonderful city, and Russians are very hospitable people.  But, when it boils down to getting around Moscow and trying to enjoy the city's life, Moscow is not at all an easy city !  In fact it is one of the most difficult cities I know.  Even for those like myself who speak Russian, it is not easy to get around by public transport, to find taxi drivers who won't cheat or even rob you, and to figure out what to do at night.  Several years ago things used to be cheap, now they are expensive, and costs are another thing to watch out for - Moscow is probably the most expensive European city for tourists, almost au par with Tokyo !  All in all, Moscow is a huge unpredictable city, wonderful but dangerous and expensive.  This great concise guide by Lonely Planet will truly provide some well-thought and well-researched advice on do's and dont's, some general tips as well as specific information on places to stay and eat, and a lot more.  The maps are also great.  By all means a great guide, so don't go to Moscow without it !	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R1FJGRAZZU9STP	0520203364	289000821	Carnal Isræl: Reading Sex in Talmudic Culture	Books	5	7	13	N	N	A taboo subject approached openly	This books approaches in a very open way the issue of sex in the Talmud.  Not an easy thing to do...  Yet it manages to do so well, without excessively offending one view or another.  Through its approach, it probably expores one of the earliest expressions of feminism in Judaism.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R2P5JV568VX9U2	0415095417	363072394	Russian Politics and Society	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent reading !  More than just a study !	It is rare to find academic books which comply with academic rigour, filled with information, data and opinions, and yet which are enjoyable to read.  But this book is an exception, like most writings by Richard Sakwa.  By inserting some curious historical facts into the studies, and even anecdotes, and by utilizing very refined and enriched vocabulary, the author makes the reading most enjoyable and fascinating, making it a pleasure to read the book - even for those who are just forced to study it out of their tutors' advice, like myself at University !  Wondeful reading, whether or not you are a Russia expert or just interested.  The style somewhat resembles that of T&iacute;bor Sz&aacute;muely, also another great writer in this field.	2000-12-30
US	46267911	R3EYL7SC5QO2PX	088133748X	168176893	Dancing Skeletons: Life and Death in West Africa	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Too subjective, aiming to shock, and little more	The author approaches an interesting subject, but the book contains fatal flaws.  It is far too subjective, filled with the author's own disputable views.  It also aims at shocking and surprising the reader, rather than informing about the subject.  All in all, it is a book I really did not enjoy.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R2GJA9YYBW29U6	189297505X	125107124	Chile Guide (Open Road Travel Guides)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	No more than an agglomeration of easily obtainable data	It would appear that little has gone into this guidebook.  The average Spanish-speaking tourist would be able to assemble all the information it contains, by simply going through each tourist information centre.  The guide is good and sometimes reads well, but it's not that useful.  Just an extra piece of luggage.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	RJFHM7XA4TRI9	0393016706	500071378	The Last Album: Eyes from the Ashes of Auschwitz-Birkenau	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Shocking and touching !	Having had a chance to read some of the book before it is out to the general public, one can already convey the feelings of shock that it conveys.  As do many books on the Shoah, this book brings back to life the atrocities of the past.  It makes the suffering live again, but making us stronger in the end.  It is surely destined to be another hit among Shoah books.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R1549GXHFY12J0	0864427034	482835345	Lonely Planet Myanmar Burma	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great guide, but be careful...	Nothing special may need to be said about this guidebook, which meets the expected Lonely Planet standard: it's excellent.  But one word of warning does need to be added regarding its advice: whilts in Burma, do NOT attempt to go and visit the home of Nobel peace prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, or the premises of her party (the NLD, National League of Democracy).  This will result in you being on a blacklist, and possibly being deported - as happened to myself !  So, be careful !	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R2XYNDXO1XVYIR	0864426437	258273644	Lonely Planet Buenos Aires (2nd ed)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A very good city guide	Lonely Planet is usually relatively weak in city guides, while they are much stronger in country and regional guidebooks.  But this guide to Buenos Aires is surely an exception.  It is an indispensable tool for all visitors, useful to the budget traveller and the business person alike, filled with tips, information and data.  The only bad point is perhaps that, the way things are quickly changing in Argentina, its advice won't always be up-to-date.  And - one should stress - Buenos Aires is not just a paradise, as this book may let one think.  Yet, overall, a very good book worth taking with you.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R22TIAF2UROW9G	0198295669	693327129	Inequality, Globalization, and World Politics	Books	5	0	5	N	N	Another success  by this renowned Oxford academic	Once again the world's academic community is faced with a new, exciting and challenging study, in this book edited by the world-known Oxford academic Ngaire Woods (along with lesser known colleagues), with contributions from some of the world's leading names in this field.  The editors' and the author's views come across vividly in the chapters, yet subjectively and impartially.  The style is fervid, the prose is amene, and the book is overall enjoyable, also readable by the average cultured person and not just the expert.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R1H4EG6Y38R0EU	0864424337	878965208	Lonely Planet Santiago De Chile	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A great guide to a great city, yet to be discovered...	Having lived in many Latin American cities, such as Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Rio de Janeiro, and also Santiago, I never quite understood why Santiago never ranked along its neighbour major cities in terms of tourism.  Indeed, Santiago is a wonderful city all to be discovered.  Her nightlife is at least up to the standard of Buenos Aires - and much cheaper !  At least as happening as Rio de Janeiro - and much safer !  The food is fabulous, the people are wonderful, the women are gorgeous.  The only black spot on Santiago may be its high level of pollution.  But apart from that, I love it !  Finally, here is a guide that contains it all.  Advice for the budget traveller as well as more researched data on fine restaurants.  Plenty of tips and data.  By all means, take this to Santiago with you.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R1CT97155IPTVR	0864425678	23099781	Lonely Planet Tokyo	Books	4	2	3	N	N	You'll be lost without it	Tokyo is not an 'easy' Asian city like Bangkok, Jakarta or Singapore.  In Tokyo you can be truly lost, unless you are with locals.  Despite my experience as a continuous traveller, I have been literally lost in Tokyo many times - entering pharmacies which I thought were restaurants, looking for inexisting cash machines, wandering around the underground without realizing how many networks there are...  This book may not be great, in fact it does have some lacks.  Yet, by all means, it is a great tool to feel more comfortable in this Asian capitaly, and also to enjoy it.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R1UNRJGI0M4QKI	0582264758	759027488	Sundiata: An Epic of Old Mali , Longman African Writers Series	Books	5	10	16	N	N	Rare book: having found it is already a great accomplishment	It is amazing how the author re-discovered such a far-away subject, revitalizing it and bringing it back to our days and our society, in a way that will be fascinating and enjoyable for the average reader.  Had it not been for the book, who would ever hope to find such fascinating epic in the tradition of old Mali ?  The author did a great job in finding this, and putting it down on paper for posterity.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R1Q0OXMPN8HN8K	0812694163	749399931	Raskolnikov's Rebirth: Psychology and the Understanding of Good and Evil	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A great way to approach a great subject	The author has done an excellent job, in addressing the subject of psychology and good and evil, by employing the well-known case of Dostoijevskij's Raskholnikov.  This makes the book not only thoughtful and useful, but also thrilling, as it takes us back to Dostoijevskij's marvellous novel, exploring the patterns of good and evil in Raskholnikov's life.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	RL9IHD2MKBLLU	0864424337	878965208	Lonely Planet Santiago De Chile	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great guide to a great city, yet to be discovered...	Having lived in many Latin American cities, such as Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Rio de Janeiro, and also Santiago, I never quite understood why Santiago never ranked along its neighbour major cities in terms of tourism.  Indeed, Santiago is a wonderful city all to be discovered.  Her nightlife is at least up to the standard of Buenos Aires - and much cheaper !  At least as happening as Rio de Janeiro - and much safer !  The food is fabulous, the people are wonderful, the women are gorgeous.  The only black spot on Santiago may be its high level of pollution.  But apart from that, I love it !  Finally, here is a guide that contains it all.  Advice for the budget traveller as well as more researched data on fine restaurants.  Plenty of tips and data.  By all means, take this to Santiago with you.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	R3M34TW7TBNTDI	0233988785	492301697	Moses of Oxford: A Jewish Vision of a University and Its Life (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A unique view of a unique university, by a unique rabbi !	Having spent nearly ten years as the director of the Oxford University L'Chaim Society, the dynamic Shmuel Boteach, a hasidic rabbi, has seen it all !  In his weekly essays which are contained in this heavy two-volumes book, he has addressed all aspects of University life, as well as other topics of relevance to students - from study to sex, from life to Israeli politics, from the Shoah to death... and more.  He has seen it all through the unique eyes of a hasidic rabbi, in the world's most unique university.	2000-12-29
US	46267911	RZXZCGY6JKKCU	1864500514	408462721	Lonely Planet - Healthy Travel - Asia & India	Books	3	19	28	N	N	Nice for the armchair traveller, but nothing more	The region of Asia and India is so large, it will be impossible - even for a great published like Lonely Planet - to put it all in one book.  All the advice you need, all the information you want, all the tips...  It just cannot be done.  This guide will prove interesting and even fascinating reading for the armchair traveller, or for those wanting an overview before they plan to visit the region.  But it's not the kind of guidebook you will want to take with you.  It's not a 'travel survival kit' as it claims.	2000-12-28
US	46267911	R1W2CML10KDXMU	0864425147	676837302	Lonely Planet Venezuela (2nd ed)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Not up to the expected standard, and out-of-date !	Venezuela is quickly changing.  Prices one day may double the next day.  Politics and society are in fervid change.  All in all, Lonely Planet has not managed to produce a guide up to the standard of other Lonely Planet guides.  Having said that, I do not know of any better guides on Venezuela, and this is still a book worth taking with you.  Though you will have to take all its advice and contents with some care, not for granted.	2000-12-28
US	46267911	R1N2F0UK8ZXL3M	0876683391	576015881	The Wolf Shall Lie With the Lamb: The Messiah in Hasidic Thought	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A wonderful journey into Hasidism	This book provides, at the same time, some in-depth reflections into Hasidism, as well as an introduction to Hasidic thought on the Messiah.  In other words, it can be easily read and entertaining both for those with a deep knowledge of Hasidism (who will love Shmuley Boteach's views on the Messiah's coming), as well as those who know little about Hasidism (who will thus be able to find out more).  The book is thrilling and filled with suspence, as well as data, information, and of course the author's views, as he ably attacks others and defends his own.  Another great hit by this popular hasidic rabbi !	2000-12-28
US	46267911	R2DF6SG8IGO6DS	086442535X	977835928	Lonely Planet Pakistan	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A real companion throughout Pakistan	Perhaps just below the usual Lonely Planet standard, this guidebook surely is a wonderful companion for your journey through Pakistan, filled with interesting as well as entertaining data and information, as well as tips for the traveller.  There are some minor lacks, such as bad coverage of the battered Kashmir region, and perhaps too much focus on the usual tourist sites.  Yet, all in all, the best guidebook on the country I ever found.	2000-12-28
US	46267911	R8VHAG3W7PKPU	0761800042	488288231	Zen Buddhism and Hasidism: A Comparative Study	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating -  academic and easy-to-read at the same time	It is not easy for an academic study, especially for one on such a specialized topic which few people know about, to be entertaining at the same time, and easy-to-read for the average cultured person.  Yet, this study does manage to do this.  Even for those of us who have only basic knowledge of Hasidism, Zen Buddhism and their histories, this book provides a fascinating journey into these two wonderful religions, on their similarities and differences.  Truly a wonderful study and a wonderful book to read.	2000-12-28
US	46267911	RC4EF5F29RCJ1	0028618912	824075000	Frommer's South Pacific (6th Ed)	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Interesting but way behind other guides...	This guide is interesting, and indeed it offers insights on some aspects of travel in the region which other guides do not address.  But it surely does not match the standard of Lonely Planet and similar guides.  The advice is not so up-to-date as it claims, and as much as it can be funny and anecdotal, its advice is not always relevant.  Maybe a good purchase for the armchair traveller, but not for whom is really travelling to this marvellous region.	2000-12-28
US	46267911	R1U1VQ5OU2HPB2	0864427506	870594627	Lonely Planet Cuba	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good but not enough	This time, Lonely Planet has published something below their usual standard.  The guide is good, interesting, and has some useful information.  But there are also lots of information and data it does not contain - partly because Cuba is so unique and hard to know, partly because everything changes so quickly in that wonderful island.  Definitely have a look at it, but this guide will never replace the personal advice with, no doubt, you will receive from new friends and acquaintances once you are in Cuba.	2000-12-27
US	46267911	R3GPH7WGYU2TI1	0864427107	514322266	Lonely Planet Peru	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another great hit by Lonely Planet	This very recent guide published by Lonely Planet in year 2000 is an indisensable and wonderful tool to take to Peru with you.  As always, LP has explored the country, giving you advice on places to stay - from top 5-star hotels to low-budget accommodation - as well as restaurants, transport, etc.  There is little or nothing which you won't find in this book, because this guide has it all...  Including indispensable advice on local customs, how to deal with people, what to buy, etc, as well as historical, social and political overviews, all up-to-date !  A small piece of luggage, but well worth the weight and the price.	2000-12-27
US	46267911	R1WVTL1X1YCY7K	0198741960	370231500	Explaining International Relations since 1945 (Oxford World's Classics (Paperback))	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An absolute must for any student of international politics	Short yet comprehensive, very filled but perfectly readable, ambitious yet realistic.  Both useful and enjoyable.  Good for any student of International Relations at any level, but also for the average cultured person.  The book aims not just at telling the history of international relations since 1945, but also at explaining them.  In fact, it probably does both things, and in an excellent way !  It provides different and conflicting interpretations, offering the authors' views but without dismissing others.  All in all, an excellent reading.	2000-12-27
US	46267911	R52TE61FR9WGR	0864424183	90969324	Lonely Planet Central America on a Shoestring	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great companion for a quick journey through Central America	If you wish to travel through Central America in a rush, this is the best book for you to take.  As always, Lonely Planet is unbeatable.  On this very region, it is only second to the other Lonely Planet guides on specific countries: Yucat&aacute;n and Belize, Guatemala, etc.  If you need to see it all in one go, and/or don't want to spend too much money or take too much weight, this is the book to take !	2000-12-27
US	46267911	R3G2XFFTGJ2TX1	0864425619	825909431	Lonely Planet Brazil (4th ed)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An indispensable tool	As always, Lonely Planet provides thorough advice on the country, on do's and dont's.  Don't go to Brazil without it !  This guide is particularly admirable for covering such a vast territory in a single book, and for offering, on top of usual information for visitors, a great deal of historical, social and political data which is interesting and easy-to-read for anyone.  Indeed, at university I remember some people studied Latin American politics just by reading the politics section at the beginning of these LP guides.	2000-12-27
US	46267911	R3COPPMAGOVZDS	0864424663	615937318	Lonely Planet Philippines (6th ed)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good guide, but out-of-date	As always, Lonely Planet provides excellent and thorough travel information and travel tips.  But all such information is extremely time-sensitive.  With this guide published in 1997, which contains advice dating back to 1996 or so, we are far out of date !  Advice is great and complete, but much of it is out-dated.  The Philippines have changed a lot in the last four years.  Prices quoted in the guide make no sense any more.  Historical and political information also need a great deal of revision.  All in all, on this occasion you may be better off getting one of the other guides (until - of course - LP publish a newer edition of this one).	2000-12-27
US	46267911	R9D4Y3H2X0OLG	0864423969	994636746	Lonely Planet Bolivia: A Travel Survival Kit (3rd ed)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Lonely Planet will be with you throughout Bolivia	As always, this is a piece of lullage well worth its price and its weight.  It contains unparalleled advice on how to get around in this wonderful land, from the heights bordering Peru to the low lands of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz.  The advice is clear, well-writte, useful, and entertaining at the same time.  Its only problem is that it dates back to 1996, and lots of things have changed since then.	2000-12-27
US	46267911	RK5RJ8SJH149B	0871563908	631582259	Adventuring in the Pacific: The Islands of Polynesia, Melanesia, and Micronesia	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Interesting and even relevant - if you have the money !	No doubt interesting reading.  Whether it's relevant...  Well, yes, this could be great advice for those adventuring in the Pacific, but only with huge amounts of money which few of us have.  Unless you have your own yacht(s) etc, you may be better off with one of the more 'conventional' travel guides.	2000-12-26
US	46267911	R1VDF1DCLUQB9Y	1858284686	324186878	The Rough Guide to West Africa, 3rd	Books	3	11	20	N	N	Interesting but not so relevant	Yes, this is an interesting guide.  If you are either an adventurer and/or an armchair traveller, by all means try it out !  Yet, this is not the kind of book it clams to be, namely a travel guide.  Few people would find it relevant to their travel plans while in Africa.  If you want advice from Lonely Planet, who published this book, then get their other book &quot;Lonely Planet West Africa&quot;, much more thorough and relevant for most travellers.	2000-12-26
US	46267911	R1F2Q9VV34UZXW	0864425686	472008639	Lonely Planet Tonga (3rd ed)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great guide, as always	As usual, Lonely Planet provides all possible advice for anyone visiting Tonga.  This guide meets the Lonele Planet standard.  For those who have used or read other LP guides in the past, nothing more needs to be added...  Don't go to Tonga without it !	2000-12-26
US	46267911	R30EHEB4DDADAF	0864424817	875138116	Lonely Planet Africa: On a Shoestring (Africa on a Shoestring, 8th ed)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Truly an indispensable tool for all Africa visitors	Africa is large, and it's hard or impossible to concentrate so much information and advice into one book.  Yet, Lonely Planet - as always - managed to do this with great muster.  Unless you have time and money to buy the many LP guides to single regions and countries of Africa, this is the book you want before you even plan of visiting the black continent !	2000-12-25
US	46267911	R90LOVN0IN7LT	0887381324	839895112	Politics and Petroleum in Ecuador	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Coming back to our mind 13 years later...	Now in year 2000, as we enter a new century, we experienced renewed political instability and serious threats, having their origin in the market for petroleum in northern South America.  Venezuela's President Hugo Ch&aacute;vez might be the threat of the decade.  So here it is, I go back to read books on this subject, and I find this one particularly useful.  A thorough study, on a subject which is unfortunately so topical nowadays.	2000-12-23
US	46267911	R3UBC8Q2YRZVSX	8420428906	964950251	El Anfitrion (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	En los años 70, entre el muro de Berlín y Pinochet en Chile	Slo quiero dar unas palabras de grande aprecio para este trabajo fantstico de Jorge Edwards, gran escritor quin considero el ms grande escritor chileno en vida, y a quin tengo el placer de conocer personalmente.  Esta novela, muy fcil de leer, con prosa excelente y ritmo de gran suspance, nos trae de vuelta a la tensin de la guerra fra, entre la Alemania de Hnecker y el Chile de Pinochet.  Para m que en esa poca ni haba nacido es un cuento memorable.  Se lo aconsejo a todos !	2000-12-23
US	46267911	R2YSG7PXX8WDZR	0385494661	449209866	Kosher Sex: A Recipe for Passion and Intimacy	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Wonderful journey into Judaism	This book by Shmuley Boteach, probably one of the world's best known Hasidic rabbis, is fascinating, entertaining and educating at the same time - also for those who, like myself, are not Jewish.  It is very easily readable for anyone, filled with rythm at all times.  For those of you who have seen the author speaking or debating (indeed, he has won several prizes as a wonderful debater and preacher), just think: as you read the book, you can virtually figure him talking and speaking, shouting and questioning, attacking and defending views...  You will read it within 3 or 4 hours without putting it down !	2000-12-23
