US	46290693	R2Z1FNZWZIV2IR	0689853637	476730591	Winter's Tale	Books	5	109	110	N	N	Increidble!!!!!!!!1	The creativity that went into this work is undeniable...Sabuda's illustration and pop-ups are not only intricate, but dazzling. A perfect gift-giving book as we approach the holiday season. <br />This work, inspired by Sabuda's journeys through the snowy fields of Michigan as a child is awe-inspiring, and a delight for adults as well as children. Each turn of the page will dazzle you, but the highlight is a surprise pull that comes at the end of the book, and is truly a \\"how did he do that\\" moment. Beautiful nature scenes, incredible snowscapes, and simple yet elegant text.  <br />This is worth buying two of...one to immediately enjoy, and one to tuck away as a gift to a future generation. AWESOME stuff.	2005-10-06
US	46290693	R2EZ775NWDZAAP	0446577847	807219595	Your Best Life Now Journal: A Guide to Reaching Your Full Potential	Books	4	55	58	N	N	Practical Guide to Keeping on the Path	I am a huge fan of \\"Your Best Life Now\\", and find Joel Osteen's words and vision to be clear, practical and definitely true to the Spirit. But with all books of this nature, its tough to develop a personal action plan from sections of the book.<br /><br />This guidebook breaks down, in a concise weekly format, the 7 steps Pastor Osteen reccomends to reach your best life. Simple to follow, easy to read, and includes great words of inspiration.<br /><br />If you want to go from merely reading to action, this inexpensive, yet very insightful tool is a great investment.	2005-04-12
US	46290693	RTBT9ZXN6DUFP	1595550003	274798904	King Of Cons: Exposing The Dirty Rotten Secrets Of The Washington Elite And Hollywood Celebrities	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Dishy, Dirty..and great fun	Its always fun to read a beach book in December. Tonken's \\"King of Cons\\" is loaded with name-dropping, name-calling and page after page of dirty secrets of top political and entertainment personalities. <br /> <br />Under the guise of charity, Tonken made (and blew) millions setting up fundraisers and arranging for celebrity appearances at events. But, despite his wheeling-dealing, you can;t despise the guy because he is playing with and catering to some of the biggest names...Clinton (Bill and Hill), Cher, J-Lo,... and the \\"Stars\\" come off as vilier as Tonken. <br /> <br />Great fun, and a good gift for anyone who likes to read up on the side of Hollywood and Washington that isn't spin or publicist-created.	2004-12-20
US	46290693	R2QHSLRNLXENPU	0972018417	33260681	Eating for Life: Your Guide to Great Health, Fat Loss and Increased Energy	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Dining with "The Guru"	Mr. Body For Life finally gets down to putting together the next phase in his \\"correct the way America lives\\" series - and once again, he hits the target with practical, \\"slow fix\\" methods to achieving nutritional balance and increased energy.<br />It's little suprise that someone most known for getting millions to follow a very practical fitness program wouldn't deviate far from that model in composing a guide to proper eating. Phillips emphasizes the importance of frequent, smaller meals, which has been the call of the \\"fit set\\" for years now. And he has no love for \\"diet of the week\\" programs (you know what he is talking about), calling most diets on the market today dangerous, and contrary to healthy nutritious eating. Nutrition, after all is about eating, not starving.<br />After deconstructing most popular beliefs about eating and dieting, Bill goes on to provide a very insightful guide to shopping for, PLANNING (and don't mistake this, as Eating For Life stresses over and over again the value of planning out meals, and calls this the one factor that will make or break any plan to stay on a nutritious eating path) and preparing nutritious, well rounded meals. If you are allready on a healthy eating path, you'll quickly recognize the meals and ingredients Bill reccomends, but there are some nice recipes in this book, and enough variety to keep the meals interesting.<br />There's no Million Dollar contests associated with this project, but there are interactive media supports (an Eating For Live website has been established, and Bill has been actively promoting the program through Muscle Media), and as in past Phillips projects, the sense that you have the support of the author, and thousands of others as you work your way through the materials.<br />This is certainly going to be another Phillips best selling project - Body FOr Life demonstrated how huge a market there is for practical advice in the fitness market, and Bill knows how to sell his audience - under-deliver and over-perform. <br />Coule this book with \\"Body For Lifew\\", and Shawn Phillip's \\"Ab-Solution\\" and you have a great holiday gift for someone looking to get on track in personal fitness in the New Year.	2003-11-25
US	46290693	R261O5S2RSAN42	1586215647	908757531	David Sedaris Live at Carnegie Hall	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Laugh-out-loudable!	They aren't kidding when they say pull over while listening to this disc in your car!<br />David live is even more fun than David in print - he has a delivery style that is perfectly suited to his material, and has a way with a stutter, a pause and an emphasis that highlights his humorous material. This guy is a natural!<br />Primarily a look at family interactions (the bit with his sister Amy, which opens this reading, works on many levels - the interplay of siblings, the breaches of privacy, and that all too volatile mix of love and bickering), David knows how to play his subjects to the hilt, without forgetting that these are people worth caring about. Another tale involving sister Amy's pet parrot (who is a verbal copy of its owner) is both absurb and heart-warming, especially when the parrot goes on the attack.<br />The funniest tale (involving a device for bladder weary truckers) is gutter humor at its best. Raunchy to the extreme, this piece might be unlistenable if someone besides David delivered it. Instead, he fills the tale with a sense of awe and wonder, and his delight in the device is every infomercial watcher's sense of satisfaction when learning they haven't been ripped off this time.<br />Truly hysterical work from one of America's funniest writers.	2003-11-18
US	46290693	R3666946VIJP6L	1579547699	611816116	Men's Health: The Book of Muscle : The World's Most Authoritative Guide to Building Your Body	Books	5	156	166	N	N	Excellent for any Level Ironhead	Finally, Men's Fitness has gotten it right - a book that does not promise immediate results...but instead one that helps you formulate a plan, that is equal part guide to the weightroom, solid nutritional advice, and key principals for involving the mind in your workout. This is without a doubt their best book yet on the value (and IMPORTANCE) of personal fitness.<br />Ian King may not be the best known name in the world of fitness, but among weightlifters, he is known for hard core, no-nonsense weight training, with functionality stressed over mere muscle mass. Along with Men's Health regular Lou Schuler, they have compiled the best muscle guide to come out of Rodale Press - and one of the best guides I have ever read.<br />Along with showcasing the various muscle groups, and giving well explained details of their importance, the book goes on to spotlight various exercises for each group. What is nice about the exercise pages is that they show great variation in order to allow for full definition of the particular muscle, and also give great explanation and illustration for the exercise, allowing the reader the chance to really learn more about proper form. It's great to read a book like that that uses pictures to explain and educate, rather than to have an excuse to photograph chiseled bodies in sweaty conditions.<br />This book has everything - whether you are a newcomer, or have been in the weightroom for years, you are bound to learn some new exercises, or some outstanding twists on some old favorites. And the sample programs written by King are well reasoned, and offer a creative mix of hypertrophic and endurance building routines. And they allow for customization to meet specific body part needs.<br />Great book guys - this has me thinking about subscribing to Men's Health again (if only they would stop running the cheesy &quot;pump up your sex life&quot; articles).	2003-10-03
US	46290693	R3N5341WCB514K	0385500696	545684646	The Fortress of Solitude: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Lethem Is An Incredible Wordsmith.	This book is a swift, entertaining read that draws you in to a culture that Lethem describes to a tee (Brooklyn from the 70's forward). <BR>Dylan and Mingus, the two central characters of &quot;Fortress&quot; (any question that music plays a major role in this book)are the conduits for a study of the politics of gentrification, the art of hip-hop and the deep values of friendship. And anyone who grew up in the era of the late 70's will spend the first half of this book reliving all the joys, and all the troubles, that went along with the aftermath of the radical racial politics of the 60's, when the two cultures were both never so closer (by way of efforts at harmonious integration) and never so apart (the battle of punk vs. rap music, and abstract art vs. grafitti).<BR>Needless to say, the bond of the two boys is reignited by events that form the 2nd half of the book - where lives have changed dramatically, yet the love they have for each other is even more important. Lethem injects an additional art form into the mix in the second half (comic superheros) that would have destroyed an effort by a lesser artist - but not only does Lethem pull it off, he vaults into a class of young American writers (think Michael Chabon, who oddly and fittingly enough has penned a blurb here) that know how to take a plot deivce and bend it to meet their needs. And he does so brilliantly.<BR>Lethem wrote &quot;Motherless Brooklyn&quot; a few years ago, and caught my attention with his clever wordplay, his knowledge of the importance of various musical genres and his ability to draw characters who earn, rather than beg for your attention. He has fulfilled that early promise in an incredible way with &quot;Fortress&quot;.	2003-09-29
US	46290693	R3MLX17FS5S03F	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Certainly not &quot;Wednesdays With Morrie&quot;	I'm almost embarassed by how much I liked this book. And I'll be the first one to admit that it is not for everyone. <BR>Albom has followed up the classic &quot;Tuesday's With Morrie&quot; with a parable about faith, and the impact we have on other's lives. It's part &quot;It's A Wonderful Life&quot; part Greek myth, and part Don Miguel Rios.<BR>A very short story to begin with, Albom's use of language is so crafty that you don't realize how quickly the story of Eddie's final moments and encounters goes by...until you realize that you want more. And if you are moved by this book, you'll be thinking of your own &quot;5 People&quot; for many days after completion.<BR>To say much more would give away the joy of finding out what is so special about each of our own &quot;5&quot;. Suffice it to say that if spiritual based, new-age leaning, life affirming literature is your cup of tea, you're going to love this story.	2003-09-28
US	46290693	RB25L1U49M9J8	0060184701	683960669	Journal of the Dead: A Story of Friendship and Murder in the New Mexico Desert	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Bizarre Tale Told Well	Could you kill your best friend if he were dying in the dessert? The moral dilemma posed by this question became a real life choice for Raffi Kodikian in July of 1999, and the aftermath of his decision is the basis for this excellent tale.<BR>A few years ago, the murder of David Coughlin by his best friend, Raffi Kodikian during a brief hiking trip through the Carlsbad Caverns made headlines and raised eyebrows. Jason Kersten has made the tale vivdly compelling and oddly sympathetic to all parties in this recounting of the tragic events.<BR>Kodikian allegedly killed his best friend &quot;to ease his misery under the roiling sun&quot; - the two had roamed the Cavern trails for three days in searing heat, and with no water. What was originally planned as an overnight camping expedition became a three day journey, plagued by vultures, hallucinations and a sense of desperation on both mens part - even though they were within a few hundred yards of a ranger's station.<BR>The ensuing criminal investigation, and arrest of Kodikian (he eventually pled guilt to second-degree murder) ellicit great sympathy for Kodikian, even though the author suggests there may have been more of a motive than was originally presented in the press. Yet the book shows that the dilemma faced by Kodikian impacted every aspect of the invesatigation, as well as confounding the investigating and legal parties involved. The real joy of this book is reading the mental wrestling engaged in by almost everyone involved, from the prosecutors, to the families, to Kodikian's own attorney, who admits the matter befuddles him to this date.<BR>This page is a suprising page-turner - the writing style is very free flowing, and the characters are extremely well presented.	2003-09-08
US	46290693	R3DITQ8A3N0Q52	0872183718	425143786	The Wedge: How to Stop Selling and Start Winning	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Fresh Ideas on Sales	After reading The Wedge, and applying its principles to my sales presentations, I landed a rather large account that I know a competitor was also avidly pursuing. That alone makes the investment in this book worthwhile. <BR>The Wedge focuses on taking business from your competition, by positioning yourself in a manner that distinguishes your business from your competitior. It is one of the first sales books that I ever read that focuses almost exclusively on the concept of taking business away from your competitors, as opposed to developing sales from independent leads. Given that almost every marketplace is static, with only so many entities available to buy your (or your competition's) product, thinking about and successfully executing methods that get your product before buyers who work with, or may be tempted by a competing product, not only makes sense, but is very wise sales strategy. And I can say - IT WORKS!	2003-09-04
US	46290693	RVZSJMJ4JEBML	0385502648	704634049	What Becomes of the Brokenhearted: A Memoir	Books	4	27	27	N	N	A Great Triumph!	E. Lynn Harris is a great fiction writer, which sometimes makes the transition to fact difficult. But his life story, which represents triumph of the spirit and determination to overcome obstacles is a true winner.<BR>The book opens in the early 1990's, prior to Harris's success as an author, and uses an attempted suicide as a starting point for this biography. It's a chilling opening, but it sets the tone for many of the harsh realities presented by Harris.<BR>An early childhood filled with abuse, teenage years spent questioning sexuality, and lifelong battles with depression certainly aren't the stuff of happy memories, yet Harris raises his many issues with clarity and purpose.<BR>The two sections of Harris's life that make for the most gripping reading are his college experiences and his battles with depression. The college years are both funny and heartbreaking, and Harris is at his best when presenting this type of material. His entry and rise up the leadership rung of his college fraternity make for the best reading, if only because they are cast against a backdrop of his emerging sexuality (and the challenges that raises as a Greek), and his role as the first male cheerleader at the University of Alabama (which gives Harris an opportunity to tell some great stories). His battles with depression are significant as he comes to grasp with the fact that his depression is chemical based, and not the result of (as he believed) his issues with his sexuality. This portion of the book really hits the reader hard, and his overall success in treatment truly warms the heart.<BR>Anyone familiar with Harris's successes as an author know how the story ends - he has become incredibly successful, and happy with who he is, which is the ultimate triumph of this book. Fans of his fiction will enjoy getting to know the real E. Lynn Harris - and fans of autobiographies should also enjoy this gritty yet warm story.	2003-07-08
US	46290693	R2NRUB56EOHTF8	1401300340	625512614	Hug Your Customers: The Proven Way to Personalize Sales and Achieve Astounding Results	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hooray For Customer Service!	In an era of cookie cutter department stores, and speciality shops that require sales staff to complete &quot;Attitude 101&quot;, it is incredibly refreshing to learn the story of Jack Mitchell, and his vastly successful enterprise Mitchells/Richards, which is the subject of &quot;Hug Your Customers&quot;.<BR>Mitchell, the second generation to run the family clothier, stresses time and time again in this history/marketing/advice tome that the key to retailing success is going the extra mile to please a customer, thereby developing loyalty (as well as increased sales).<BR>Mitchell is not only a shrewd business, but also a great storyteller, and has mastered the art of remembering his customers - the stories he tells in this book about exceeding customer expectations through fairly simple means (creating customer profiles, involving family in business...) are lessons that anyone in business has heard ten times over, and has probably discarded for the latest marketing trend. Mitchell's simple storytelling style works great when discussing the importance of old fashioned customer service principles (selling merchandise displayed on mannequins, charting birthdays, phone calls to customers to remind them of special events...) - his buisness philosophy makes great (common) sense.<BR>Mitchell's ideas of service translate extremely well into any sales environment, and this book is a great resource (and reminder) for anyone in sales, marketing, or public relations work. He is great at capturing the larger picture of the value of relationships in the sales enviroment - as well as valuing the sales staff.<BR>In an era where quality customer service seems to be a forgotten skill, its great to read of someone who has had great success because he practices the very simple rules of successful sales - know your customer - greet them and treat them with respect - go tohe extra mile to satisfy their needs. Unfortunately, we have come to expect less of salespeople these days because such simple courtesies are rarely extended in today's retailing marketplace. I found a number of strategies laid out by Mitchell to be great starting points for customer interaction in my own work, and that is the best reccomendation a reader can give a book of this type.	2003-06-23
US	46290693	R2VGW4V2K786KA	0871138700	3379369	The Final Confession of Mabel Stark	Books	4	29	29	N	N	A Romp, A Lark, A Hoot	Robert Hough may be a new voice in fiction, but his storytelling talents are like those of a veteran. <BR>&quot;The Final Confession Of Mabel Stark&quot; tells the tale of a rebel, who finds both her calling, and her salvation in the unorthodoz world of tiger training. Stark was a real-life entertainer, who was a noted act in the Ringing Bros. circus, reaching her peak of popularity in the 20's and early 30's - but the book is an imagined biography, giving the author license to fashion a life as large and colorful as Mabel apparently was.<BR>Told in a breezy style, with great humor and very talented wordplay, the author takes us from Mabel's &quot;traditional&quot; life (nurse, housewife) through mental problems, abusive marriages and dance girl days, until she finds both her calling (as a cat trainer) and the love of her life (a lipstick wearing man named Art Rooney, who is a wonderful character, deserving of his own book). Hough gives Mabel a literary voice that begins as sad, shifting to (extremely) wise-cracking, and finally all-knowing. Her adventures with the circus and her many cats (the best parts of the book involve Mabel's interactions with her many felines over the years, and this interaction propels the story and brings about the shifts in Mabel that prove to be her ultimate triumph), are both hysterical and thought-provoking - much like something Tom Robbins would write.<BR>This book is an unexpected pleasure - I picked it up because of the classic circus design on the cover, because I had never heard of the wirter, or book before (it is a first novel by Hough). I'm glad to welcome him as a new talent, and hope that he has more of this wonderful type of storytwlling within himself.	2003-06-12
US	46290693	R2I123031A6W4F	1592400043	18697041	Patti Labelle's Lite Cuisine: Over 100 Dishes with To-Die-For Taste Made with To-Die-For Recipes	Books	5	63	64	N	N	Patti Cooks! (but we always knew that)	Patti Labelle is legendary for her cooking stories from on the road - for years, she had a rider in her contract that a full kitchen be available at her shows for her to prepare post-concert meals.<BR>Patti has taking her love (and considerable knowledge) of food, and put this in a book that also contains family recollections, words of encouragement, and smart living advice. It's a great book to give as a gift (especially to someone who loves to cook, but needs to watch their diet), and a whole lot of fun to read, and prepare her meal suggestions.<BR>This book focuses on low-fat, low-sodium and low-carb meals, but does not sacrifice taste (nor tasty ingedients) in favor of diet. There are some rather indulgent recipes (the Chocolate Pecan Pie is AWESOME), but they are prepared smart.<BR>Patti's stories that accompany many of the recipes are always enjoyable (is there a more down to earth singing star than this fine lasy?), but also poignant - her discussions of her mother's death by diabetis, and her talk of dealing with having the disease herself make you want to eat smarter.<BR>Buy 2 copies of this book - one for a friend who needs to be cooking smarter (we all have one), and one for yourself. It's a great mix of food and wisdom as only Patti could deliver.	2003-06-11
US	46290693	R2T6D89WBZ4ZX8	0312272057	433455404	Dry: A Memoir	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Sobering Look At Sobriety	Augusten Burroughs showed how funny dysfunction could be in the excellent biography \\"Running With Scissors\\". Anyone who read (and enjoyed) \\"Running\\" can't be suprised that the next step for Burroughs would be rehab, which is the core of his new book \\"Dry\\".<BR>The cast surrounding Burroughs in this novel comes with its own set of baggage, which gives him new avenues to explore, new failures to ridicule and new situations to extract both humor and pathos. Again, Burroughs makes laughing at his own missteps central to the book's theme, allthough a running second story involving a best friend who is dying of AIDS really turns the reader against Burroughs (until the necessary near-book's end epiphany, which always seems to be a common theme in alcohol-recovery stories). <BR>Burroughs makes a funny, and tragic drunk. His confusion over dates and times, his lying and deceiving friends and co-workers lead to some laugh-out-loud tales. And the long overdue intervention will make a great movie scene someday. But this book hits its stride with Burroughs exiting rehab, and trying to cope in the real world without a drink. Here his yearning for understanding of his own condition, set against a number of incidents (his friend's eventual death, scripting a beer advertising campaign) lead to humor, sadness and understanding, and show us the heart and soul that we suspect is there, but are rarely given a chance to see until the end of the story.<BR>Anyone who has experience with sobriety, or with twelve-step programs will especially enjoy Burrough's experiences in rehab and meetings, but there may be a few too many in-jokes for those not familiar with a sober lifestyle.	2003-05-20
US	46290693	R337CGGZA1GHEJ	0743227123	91077146	The Fabulist	Books	3	11	21	N	N	Imagine - A Lying Reporter!!!	ODD CONVERGENCE NOTE - I read this book at the very same time as the Jayson Blair/NY Times scandal was breaking...an eerie coincidence along the sames lines as \\"China Syndrome/Three Mile Island\\".<br />Stephen Glass had a brilliant opportunity to capitalize on self-induced scandal in writing \\"The Fabulist\\". Having been fired from The New Republic for fabricating stories, Glass turned the tables and has written the fictional \\"Fabulist\\", about a reporter who fabricates stories. Talk about knowing that of which you write.<BR>The problem with the book is, unfortunately that Glass is way too close to his source material. Price's story, in the hands of a good, yet independent writer could have been a blockbuster - deceipt over the machinery of a media powerhouse, the tumbling of career dreams and promises, and eventual (hopeful) redemption. Glass, telling his own story, has neither the independent view, or to be honest the literary skills to make this story as compelling as it might have been.<BR>Glass is at his best when looking at the reasons behind his perpetration of media fraud - desire for attention and need to excel being at the root. Once his charecter (appropriately enough called Stephen Glass) finds that his \\"fiction\\" is earning him merit in the world of reporting, he becomes an insatiable beast - producing story after story that earns him notice, yet takes even more deisre to tell the truth away.<BR>By the time Glass's fraud is exposed, the reader has little sympathy left for Glass. He invents excuses for the character's actions that become annoying (actually, when the writer drifts from Glass the reporter to Glass the son/brother/lover, the story grows more and more annoying). <BR>While the premise of the book is fascinating, and the final section (Denouement, which follows Downfall, Debacle, Disappearance and Desperation) is well written, this book is primarily a series of unfulfilled promises.	2003-05-13
US	46290693	R1EC818AZPWBJN	0393048896	130257888	Art Held Hostage: The Battle over the Barnes Collection	Books	4	42	47	N	N	A Fascinating Read about An Amazing Collection	Anyone familiar with the Barnes Museum knows the inherent irony of the collection - some of the greatest works of art housed in what amounts to a converted residence, with no logic to the pattern of display other than a sheer \\"wow\\" factor over seeing Cezannes, Matisses and other masters shown matter-of-factly. This priceless assemblege, and the battles that have been waged over its ownership and rights of management make for one terrificly enjoyable read.<BR>Outside of the art world, few people even knew of the Barnes's collection until the latter part of last century, when battles, both in court and in the news blew its cover. Struggling financially, and with management consisting of (overwhelmingly) less than capable minds, the foundation which owns and manages the collection approached bankruptcy and battles began over a touring show of the pieces. The very ugly underbelly of this battle made headline news for months, and spilled over into relations with neighbors of the museum, Philadelphia area politicians, art students and lovers, and the wishes of a very private man who appreciated art, but underappreciated the legacy he bequeathed a small minoirty college in Chester County, Pennsylvania.<BR>John Anderson does a great job profiling the players in the battle (his take on Richard Glanton, a lawyer with political aspirations who was a key player in the battle) is dead on. Often times, the characters in this true story seem larger than the paintings and legacy they are battling over - Anderson gives the various egos at work here more than enough room, which makes the book both entertaining, and troubling (particularly when the reader considers that these people are battling over one of a kind masterpieces).<BR>Its hard to imagine an art collection, a minority college, a strong willed educator and a power hungry lawyer, in a buccolic rural setting could make for such a great stroy - its a tribute to Anderson's writing skills that he captures the intensity of the parties, and their absolute believe in their position in the many legal battles that accompained the Barnes collection in such a breathtaking passion.<BR>The collection is back in court again these days, and the emerging details (undisclosed audits, suburban vs. city politicians...) make clear that sequel material is being developed to this day - I hope Anderson is sitting in the courtroom and editing his notes nightly.	2003-05-12
US	46290693	R3N25F396CBYIS	0553803328	866877384	Villa Incognito	Books	4	52	55	N	N	5 for Wordplay, 4 for Plot, 3 for Resolution	Tom Robbins is a great American treasure. His novels have entertained (and confounded) his ardent fan base for nearly 30 years, and his style of writing is as original as it gets. <BR>\\"Villa Incognito\\", his 8th (and, along with the classic \\"Still Life\\", one of his shortest) novels opens in typical Robbins fashion - parallel stories seperated by generations, farcical characters and an alluring female whom you somehow know is going to tie the entire story together. The action in \\"VI\\" is primarily set in Asia (which gives Robbins a chance to focus on herion as the drug of reference in this novel), where 3 Vietnam (thought to be) MIA's have established their own Walden. Meanwhile, the possible offspring of a Tanuki (don't ask, just trust me that only Robbins could make such a mythical character work SO WELL) and her circus comrades worms her way into the story, creating the mischief that Robbins works so well with his female creations (think Amanda from \\"Another Roadside Attraction\\", or the exotic dancer from \\"Skinny Legs and All\\" ). <BR>As always, Robbins words simply sparkle. His ability to fashion similes remains unchallenged in modern writing. And the \\"modern time\\" sections of the story allow Tom (and his fans) the pleasure of Bush-bashing, 9/11 ruminating, and general \\"religion-government-organized society is failing us\\" rambling.<BR>Unfortunately, the story runs into serious trouble after about 150 pages. You see where he wants to go, but lately Robbins has had a bad habit of letting his strong talents get in the way of a solid finish. It's not as bad as \\"Fierce Invalids\\" (which crumbled under its own weight), but then again, at only 230 or so pages, there isn't as much room to fail here. <BR>One really has small reason to complain whenever there is some fresh TR on the market - no other wirter makes a reader simply giggle quite like Tom. And he isn't afraid to poke fun at sacred icons. This book reinforces everything I love about Robbin's writings - and reminds me why critics seem to dislike him so much.	2003-04-29
US	46290693	RC37JK3IPZSRJ	0060527978	146072060	Warrior of the Light: A Manual	Books	5	209	216	N	N	A Perfect Companion To The Alchemist	I loved &quot;The Alchemist&quot;. The idea of pursuit, and ultimate achievement told in fable manner generated both optimism and hope for me. ANd the theme of the story &quot;When You Know What You Want, The Whole World Conspires With You To Achieve It&quot; is one of life's most beuatiful lessons.<BR>&quot;Warrior of the Light&quot; expands on the themes Coehlo set forth in &quot;The Alchemist&quot;, providing everyday lessons for reaching the enlightened status of The Warrior. It's a convenient to carry pocket sized manual, and is great to pick up for a moment's inspiration in the pursuit of dreams. The style of the manual is more of a meditation than The Alchemist, and the book is broken down into short paragraph form, allowing the reader to take a lesson, think over its implications and incorporate the action into daily living. Among the many lessons covered in &quot;Warrior&quot; are the value of failure (a key to all of Coehlo's writings), respect for the universal elements, living through your dreams, and acceptance of nature.<BR>I keep two copies of &quot;Warrior&quot; handy - one on my desk at work, and one on my nightstand at home. It is a great book to simply open, absorb and meditate on. And the lessons of the Warrior make for great living on a daily basis.	2003-03-31
US	46290693	ROHZ6KAHZNG3Q	0760312443	415836648	Hummer H2 (ColorTech)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable Read	When the latest &quot;What's Hot&quot; list gets published, there is no doubt that the H2 will occupy a top slot. This brief, but fun book gives a  nice insight into the development of the H2, and outlines (for the first time I've ever read), the brilliant deal that brought GM and Humvee together to create and market the lastest designer wheels.<BR>The GM/AM General (AM is the firm that produced the original Humvee) deal, which combined the branding and economic power of GM with the uniqueness and techincal genius of the Humvee team allowed both parties to get exactly what they wanted, and brought the H2 to the general public far quicker than either one on their own could have. The development and launching of the H2 should be required reading for both engineering and marketing students.<BR>The story falls a bit as it tries to categorize the H2 driver into one of two classes, and makes a few too many generalizations as to market appeal.<BR>There are some great photos, and some interesting development stories about future Hummer/GM vehicles (2 more are scheduled to hit the market by 2010)	2003-03-10
US	46290693	RAJL7QA7YZMXL	0670031895	434179945	I Should Be Extremely Happy in Your Company: A Novel of Lewis and Clark (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Brilliant concept, Wonderful Execution	THIS BOOK IS A SHEER JOY!<BR>The adventures of William Clark and Merriweather Lewis have long been ample fodder for historical prose. Their expedition is probably the most memorable story of &quot;See America First&quot; type travel, and their triumph in exploring an unknown America has been well documented since the Jefferson era. But never has the story been so personal, nor as involving, as Brian Hall's take on their trek.<BR>&quot;I Should Be...&quot; gets its title from Lewis's actual invitation to Clark to join the Corps of Discovery in exploring an uncharted Western America. The novel imagines the dialogue between the men, along with their native guide Sacagawea and Sacagewea's husband Toussaint Charbonneau, and uses the words of the foursome to propel the story from Washington DC to St. Louis, and then through the great Northwest. It removes the tale from the traditional dry narrative type of historical novel, and gives the characters rich, imagined lives that make the expedition almost personal to the reader.<BR>All books of this type rise and fall on the strength of the cast, and Hall has populated his players with the necessary hopes, despairs and neuroses that would go hand in hand with creating a legendary tale. Lewis's grandeur in his mission and Clark's seeming envy at playing #2 in what was described to him as a mission led by equals are among the many plot devices used by Hall to make allready known charecters take on human form. A hysterical and well imagined portion of the book describing the naming of rivers after Lewis and Clark (where Clark gets the short end of the stick) is only one example of how well this story plays out.<BR>Since the book is told in dialogue form, the chapters were Sacagawea describes the journey are difficult (Hall uses a device that blends English and Shoshone that is slightly confusing) but essential to the plot. This is a minor gripe for a book that is revolutionary in its retelling of history.<BR>While everyone is familiar with how the story plays out and ends, there is a coda to the novel that describes Lewis and Clark's lives following the expedition that was new to me. Lewis's post-expedition live was tragic, while Clark became a mainstay of St. Louis society. Taking the book through their post-expedition lives gives Hall a great opportunity to expand on the price of fame and the fall of legends. He hits the mark with eloquence and sincerity.<BR>I had never read anything by Hall prior to this book, so I don't know if the richness of this story could have been foreseen, or if he just got lucky. I will be looking forward to reading some of his other works now, for his talent in bringing character and emotion to one of history's greatest duo  was incredibly impressive.	2003-01-26
US	46290693	R2DWT7LT1Z4L09	0671797484	917361006	Arnold: The Education of a Bodybuilder	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Worth It For The Mental Focus Tips	Sorry, but I was never one to buy into the &quot;myth&quot; of Ar-NOLD. His physique was too exagerated, and his image too he-man for my tastes. But friend after friend kept reccomending this book to me. After finishing it, I understand why.<BR>&quot;The Education&quot; is really two books, and a self-help guide, all wrapped up in a couple of hundred easy to read pages. The book begins with Arnold's growing up in Austria, and discovery of the weight room, and follows his progression from small bodybuilding shows in Europe through his immigration to America, and his ascension to the top of the world of muscle. It was in these pages that I found the real value of this book, because Arnold talks about common sense approaches to involving the mind in every single workout, from motivation and visualization techniques, through mental imagery and strict concentration. Having lifted a few pounds in my day, I was greatly impressed by Arnold's discussion of how important the mind has always been to his training, and how mental discipline in the gym has given him the fortitude to become a success in America. While his physique still doesn't rank among my favorites, I developed a sense of respect for his training methods after reading this book.<BR>Part two, which includes a number of &quot;split&quot; variations for ironheads, is a little passe in this day of ever-evolving weight lifting strategies, and fails to spend enough time stressing (or even teaching) excellent form. There are many other (and better) books to use as a resource for this - though form should always be honed with a certified trainer, not studied from a book.<BR>After reading this, I'm tempted to study more about Arnold, and look forward to reading &quot;The Encyclopedia Of bodybuilding&quot;, another one of his publications. But I won't be rushing out to rent Terminator 2 - I'm still not that sold on him.	2003-01-14
US	46290693	R1X9NJ8AQPUU6P	0826214266	443381151	Guillaume: A Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A tragic life, a great story	Robert Guillaume always made me laugh, so I was eager to learn more about him when I picked up this book. Suprisingly, &quot;Benson&quot; is about as far from Robert's reality as a character could be.<br />Born in poverty to an alcohol-addicted prostitute, Guillaume certainly didn't have a charmed start. Love and encouragement from a grandmother who showered him with love gave him a chance, and natural intelligence got him to Hollywood.<br />Guillaume is clearly a haunted soul, and I hope this book assisted him in expunging some rather obvious demons, which he deals with along the way. Repeating the family cycle, he fathers, and then abandons a series of wives, women, and children, though he never seems sure why he repeats the pattern. A chance audition landed him the role of his lifetime, as Benson, first of the dearly missed &quot;Soap&quot;, and then the rather limp spinoff &quot;Benson&quot;. Success in Hollywood gives him the stability to at last enter a strong relationship, rebuild past bridges, and overcome  a near debilitating stroke while performing on &quot;Sports Night&quot;, another classic show. The chapters dealing with the stroke, and his recovery (it's great to read how &quot;Sports Night&quot; was reconfigured to work his disability into the script) are particularly touching, and give Guillaume the opportunity to deal not only with his illness, but with his perceived failings as an individual. It makes for some very strong, and very inspiring reading.<br />Guillaume isn't likely, by his own admission, to win any &quot;Father Of the Year&quot; awards, and doesn't (fully) apologize for a somewhat soiled past. He does revel in his successes as an individual by the later years of his life, and makes up for many of his self-created messes by the end of the story. It's overall a very insightful look at both a performer and a man, and well worth reading	2003-01-14
US	46290693	R3J017N7AV5949	0679754814	333355971	The Complete Book of Butt and Legs	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Keys for Killer Quads	The Brungardt series of \\"Complete\\" Exercises finally gets around to covering lower body. It's nice to see a reference book that focuses on the most essential piece of a well-planned workout.<BR>Legs (including Hamstrings, quads, and calves) are the thrust of this guide, and Brungardt certainly knows how to put together an excellent leg program, whether you are a novice or a pro. The Brungardt strategy is a sound 1-2-3 elevated program, guiding the reader from basic leg workouts up through some tough variations on the master of all weightlifting moves, the squat. The book takes a lot of time explaining the value of proper form in leg routines, which is essential for anyone looking to maintain a healthy back. Brungardt also spends a good deal of time explaining the importance of diet and cardio exercise to develope and tone some awesome legs.<BR>The section on glute building is rather basic, but fits well with the material as most leg exercises involve the glutes, when done properly. Some individual focus on hyperextensions, among other exercises, give the reader some good tools if they want to add more of a glute building routine to their program.<BR>I have found all of the Brungardts books to be a valuable guide for enforcing proper form, and getting some solid motivational advice (they always stress the importance of bringing the nind into the exercise, which is overlooked in most of today's exercise manuals). And it is nice to see legs get a book all their own - if you are like me, and know how valuable a good leg routine is to your workout, you'll appreciate the advice dispensed in this book. Of course, most gym rats won't be interested in a book that ignores the \\"pecs and guns\\" mentality that is so prevalent today in the gym. That's a shame, because this book is a great reminder of how lower body affects, and helps build a solid upper body as well	2003-01-13
US	46290693	R1IHZ6LRIJYY4U	0618173870	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	2	12	19	N	N	Mildly Humorous, Vastly Overrated	I'm sorry, I just didn't get it.<BR>This book was sold hard, and reviewed very well, and being a fan of modern literature I bought into the hype.<BR>The &quot;parallel writing&quot; gimmicks are cute for about the first 50 pages.<BR>The fractured use of the English language grows weary after about 100 pages.<BR>The ending is about as unfulfilling as any book which I have read in the last ten years.<BR>Maybe you need to relate to this story on a different level (as a foreigner, as a traveler having a unique experience with a guide, as a relative desperate for family tree information) in order to enjoy &quot;Everything Is Illuminated&quot;. I came into the story as neither.<BR>I sold this book as soon as I finished it, and used the money to buy &quot;Prague&quot;.	2003-01-07
US	46290693	RHT9O0KBXZ878	0375500626	918586268	Motown: Music, Money, Sex, and Power	Books	4	34	36	N	N	Meticulously Researched, but more bitter than necessary	Motown Records is either a) a hallowed sanctuary of soul music best left to be adored from afar, or b) an empire built on dirty dealing and abuse (both emotional and monetary) best exposed as an example of exploitation. Or maybe it is both. Gerald Posner has a hard time making that decision, despite a well researched and historically well documented survey of Berry Gordy (and family's) legendary contribution to the music business.<BR>Posner has crafted a study of Motown that presents its founders, and stars as less-than-perfect (though most often well-likable) pioneers in business and entertainment, working together, though often butting heads with each other, in defining a company built on a legendary sound. Everyone is familiar with most of the players - The Gordy Family (this book delves into the family more so than most other Motown studies, and makes clear that Berry was the head, though not the sole talent of the family), Marvin Gaye (who is painted as a head case through much of the book), Diana Ross (Posner adds some new &quot;legends&quot; to this diva's conduct file, none of them pretty or flattering), Stevie Wonder (both respected and severely exploited, given his youth), Smokey robinson (probably the smartest businessman in the Motown stable), and others. Posner shoots down the legendary &quot;mob-connection&quot; tale, but fills his book with court records, verified statements from insiders, and previously published facts to present a company where competition between artists fueled the hit pipeline, but with severe cost to artists (Florence Ballard's story is still painful to read) and creativity. <BR>This book is a great, enjoyable read in many parts, but it fails to capture any of the joy of Motown. You are left feeling sorry for many of the artists you have come to love over the years. For this reason, I'm glad I saw &quot;Standing In The Shadows Of Motown&quot; before reading &quot;Motown: Money, Power...&quot;, for that movie is a celebration of the most important element of the Motown legacy - some of the best music ever recorded.	2002-12-24
US	46290693	R3QKBT7ZN5YQY8	0805800662	629265361	Children Communicating: The First 5 Years (Routledge Communication Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Articulate and Insightful Overview of Adolescent-Speak	Dr. Wendy Samter has published a truly insightful paean to the intricacies and bafflements inherent in the communication skills of adolescents. <BR>Compended following years of clinical research (meticulously authenticated), Children Communicating represents far more than an arriviste's take on youth verbal and non-verbal communication patterns. Broken down by age groupings as well as gender related categories, Children Communicating should be required reading for educators, child care porfessionals, and others engaged in professions where insight into communication skills is essential. <BR>My only complaint is Dr. Samter's failure to include \\"Good Dog, Carl\\" in her listing of reccomended children's literature used to generate discussion with talk-averse preschoolers. Otherwise the list is well thought out.	2002-11-14
US	46290693	R1WTZH85PKF42U	0375411992	838568330	Blackwood Farm (The Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	A new &quot;classic character&quot; by Anne Rice	Blackwood Farm is a fast and furious read through typical Anne Rice territory. The new twist is the creation of a great new bloodhunter, whi accompanied by a &quot;friend&quot; from his childhood, provide a modern twist to the Lestat legends.<BR>Quinn Blackwood is new to the vampire game when this story opens, and his horror and pleasure of the first year of this life makes for great reading. But BLackwood is accompained by a doppleganger from his youth, named Goblin, who fuels Quinn's passion for blood, while at the same time promoting anguish over the lifestyle.<BR>Blackwood's confusion prompts him to seel out the infamous Lestat, and drives this novel over various glamourous and dark settings. Of course, the story is at its best in some of the creepier settings in New Orleans, where Quinn confronts other bloodhunters, witches and characters which only Rice can convincingly create.<BR>The story moves forward very quickly, with a great mix of horror, humor and style. It's not likely to win new fans for Rice, but if you like her style, you'll enjoy Quinn, and this book.	2002-11-04
US	46290693	R1ZBRTZL7H9IGP	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Turow's Best since Presumed Innocent	Scott Turow is a much better \\"legal fiction\\" author than John Grisham - his storylines are plausible, and his use of the law propels a story, rather than bog it down. \\"Reversible Errors\\" takes a death row case to the microscope with both thrilling and disturbing results.<BR>\\"Reversible Errors\\" revolves primarily around 2 stories, told at the same time - events surrounding a suspects criminal conviction, and efforts to prevent his execution ten years later. A confession at the heart of the conviction is brought under  the microscope as the story unfolds, thus raising an examination of the earlier trial, and the impending execution. Turow populates the story with some well drawn characters, and the parallel storyline gives a great opportunity to understand how these people have evolved over the ten years, both in respect to the initial slaying, and with each other. Particularly sympathetic is the original trial judge, who has herself run afoul of the law subsequent to the initial trial. <BR>This book moves very fast, and is entertaining throughout. The ending is both plausible and satisfying, and leaves you with very strong feelings towards the characters. I found myself thinking about this book for days after I had finished it, and you'll likely feel the same way.	2002-11-04
US	46290693	R2WQK729MCUQSC	0821228196	137659260	100 Years of Harley Davidson	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Great Stories...Incredible Photos	Harley-Davidson motorcycles hardly seem, at first thought, the appropriate topic for a glossy coffee-table type book. Having carefully cultivated a rebel image, Harley has for decades revelled in such perceptions, while customarily watching monied professionals drive off the lot on a Softtail. It's the ultimate in \\"irony advertising\\".<BR>But the Harley story is also an American story, one of tales from the road across the USA. The company, celebrating its 100th year, is one of the few motoring ventures that maintains an image of quality vastly superior to Japanese knockoffs, primarily because of its storied history and presentation in culture for the last 100 years.<BR>The story of the Harley Davidson corporate mentality, its financial devastation and recovery, and its appeal to an American society that loves its image takes up a good deal of space in this book, and makes for fascinating reading. In fact, the story alone would be worth a somewhat reduced price of admission (this book is expensive, after all), but the photography makes this a big keeper.<BR>Double page after double page of legendary Harley models, dating back to the 1900's, capture the imagination, and the beauty of design in an incredible light. Photos from across the country call out for road trips. The photos capture much more than the HOG they portray - they are an invitation to hop on for a ride through American history.<BR>This book is an excellent Christmas gift for anyone who owns, or always wanted to own their own Harley.	2002-10-17
US	46290693	R1UAZW52SUXG0A	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	5	93	99	N	N	If you loved the show, you'll love the book	This book feels like a reunion of old friends, telling their stories at a dinner party that you are fortunate ewnough to overhear. <BR>There is so much history in the years of SNL that there is an anecdote for every fan, but this book recognizes Loren Michaels as being the true genius behind the creation and development of the show. He's not universally loved by the cast (but also not nearly as despised as Chevy Chase, who seems to beeveryone's favorite whipping boy), but his genius is acknowledged by one and all.<BR>A lot of favorite skits and characters are discussed, as well as some legendary battles with censors, advertisers and network executives. The mix of radical comedy with revenue concious TV executives makes for fascinating reading.<BR>The chapters dealing with the deaths of cast members and behind the scene staff members are incredibly poignant, especially Belushi's and Chris Farley's, bit of whom were known to be dancing with trouble. <BR>This book also goes a long way to humanizing Chris Rock, who emerges as one of the most thoughtful and career minded members of all SNL casts. His intelligence shines through in his tales of making it by way of the show. <BR>There is a great story on almost every page of this book, and having grown up with this show, it made the memories all the more pleasant.<BR>This is a great Christmas present for any 30-50 year old who has spent their Saturday night in front of a TV.	2002-09-26
US	46290693	R22SALNRIEP9EP	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you loved the show, you'll love the book	This book feels like a reunion of old friends, telling their stories at a dinner party that you are fortunate enough to overhear. <BR>There is so much history in the years of SNL that there is an anecdote for every fan, but this book recognizes Loren Michaels as being the true genius behind the creation and development of the show. He's not universally loved by the cast (but also not nearly as despised as Chevy Chase, who seems to beeveryone's favorite whipping boy), but his genius is acknowledged by one and all.<BR>A lot of favorite skits and characters are discussed, as well as some legendary battles with censors, advertisers and network executives. The mix of radical comedy with revenue concious TV executives makes for fascinating reading.<BR>The chapters dealing with the deaths of cast members and behind the scene staff members are incredibly poignant, especially Belushi's and Chris Farley's, bit of whom were known to be dancing with trouble. <BR>This book also goes a long way to humanizing Chris Rock, who emerges as one of the most thoughtful and career minded members of all SNL casts. His intelligence shines through in his tales of making it by way of the show. <BR>There is a great story on almost every page of this book, and having grown up with this show, it made the memories all the more pleasant.<BR>This is a great Christmas present for any 30-50 year old who has spent their Saturday night in front of a TV.	2002-09-26
US	46290693	R11GPSEBMLXW91	0786808772	163865641	Summerland	Books	5	21	23	N	N	More Magic by Michael	It was always apparent that Michael Chabon had a fantasy novel  in him. From the vivid imagery of the Cloud Factory in \\"The Mysteries of Pittsburgh\\" through the fact/fiction world of Kavalier and Clay, Chabon's ability to create worlds with words has been unparralled in so called \\"modern fiction\\". What's suprising is the ease with which he leaps from serious writing to whimsical storytelling, without missing a beat.<BR>\\"Summerland\\" was rumored to be a book for youths, but the crisp language and artful plotline are hallmark Chabon. Set in parallel worlds of Little League baseball, the story speaks to the kid in all of us that doesn't have all the talent, but finds in the end that faith can put tickmarks on the scorecard. Ethan Feld, the hero of \\"Summerland\\" is clearly a younger version of Art from \\"Mysteries\\", playing a part he feels wholly unsuited for, yet Chabon doesn't allow him to fail. One of my favorite things about Chabon's writing is his method of creating this type of character, and then nurturing him through rough waters. The other role players in this story include a legendary baseball bat (\\"Splinter\\"), ferishers, a werefox (a play on Chabon's Werewolves in Their youth?)and other fantasy sorts that are richly drawn and  highly stylized. Ethan's friend, Jennifer T. Rideout is also a great character, with a knowledge of baseball lore that accompanies a golden throwing arm, and she is probably Chabon's best female creation to date (sorry Phlox), owing to her youth and love of baseball.<BR>By the time you reach the \\"Home\\" section of this 500 page novel, you are reminded why, if you are a fan of his, you love Chabon's writing. His stories always close neatly, and leave you wondering just what happens to his cast on page 501. He's truly one of our greatest writers, and \\"Summerland\\" is a worthy successor to his achievements to date.	2002-09-21
US	46290693	RATLDVS230011	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Lolita meets Merchant/Ivory - Wow, what a story!	I can't say enough positive things about the pleasure of reading &quot;The Crimson Petal and the White&quot;. Faber has created a character that ranks with the best prostitutes in fiction, and the other characters populating his novel allow for the type of plot twists that make a novel engrossing, and in the end memorable.<BR>The central plot of &quot;Crimson Petal&quot; involves the efforts of a young hooker (Sugar) to escape a horrendous teen life, and then find her way in a more successful metropolitan society. Her benefactor (or more appropiately , &quot;Sugar&quot; daddy) Rackham, has his own baggage (a mentally disturbed wife, an ill child and a very troubled brother), and his bringing Sugar into the mix both complicates and liberates his life. This isn't a happy ending story, however, because no character deserves (or even desires) trust. This is revealed by the various novels being written by each of the characters as the story develops - making this a series of novels, unfolding in a novel. In that sense, it reminded me of &quot;The French Lieutenant's Woman&quot;, but &quot;Crimson&quot; is much more of a page turner.<BR>After 800 pages, I wanted more. Faber's use of language, while sometimes extremely graphic, is incredibly attractive. While the people populating his story certainly aren't lovable, they are fascinating. And this is a story unlike anything you have ever read before. <BR>There will be a lot of mentioning of Faber's name at the various book awards this year. His storytelling skills are that good.	2002-09-11
US	46290693	R3J7XHB54XWZ8A	0684857634	742421958	Will You Miss Me When I'm Gone?: The Carter Family and Their Legacy in American Music	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A view from the top of &quot;Mountain Music&quot;	The singing Carter family have influenced American music for over 70 years, and this biography seeks to give them their due as one of the premier families of American musical heritage. While a little too soap-opry in parts, Mark Zwoniter does an impressive job tracing the Carter's early musical history, and spins some compelling tales of the original Carters (husband and wife AP and Sara, and sister-in-law Maybelle). <BR>The book traces the Carter's over-300 recorded performances and legendary radio shows (a highlight to listeners of the Depression Era), but sometimes sacrifices musical legacy for back stories involving pregnancies, affairs and name dropping (particularly as the family grows, and ascends to their rightful place as stars on the country music scene). This problem is particularly noticable in discussions of June Carter Cash, whose story would make a phenomenal movie, but overshadows the simple pleasures of the Carters' music itself.<BR>&quot;Oh Brother Where Art Thou&quot;, and the continued importance of the Carter classic &quot;Will The Circle Be Unbroken&quot; ensure that this legendary family remains important in music history today, and should provide a solid fan base for reading this book. It's a very interesting (and easy) read, with some great stories about a musical family on the road in pursuit of the American dream.	2002-08-13
US	46290693	R1QN7QFQGVUZNN	1931046352	230283185	Your Body Revival: Weight Loss Straight Talk	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Solid Advice from a &quot;Master&quot;	Dave Draper knows fitness. With a resume that transcends mere &quot;bodybuilding&quot;, and a style that is both colorful and vivid, he imparts that knowledge in a way that is inspiring, and clearly calculated to help others succeed.<BR>&quot;Your Body Revival&quot; is quite a different book than Dave's &quot;Brother Iron, Sister Steel&quot; (one of the best books ever written for the iron crowd. &quot;Body Revival&quot; is more of a call to action, primarily for the overweight, but written to motivation even hard-core gym rats.<BR>Dave takes on the &quot;fad diet&quot; pushers, and debunks a lot of the falsehoods that are out there regarding weight loss. His approach is more geared towards those wishing to make life-long positive changes, and he is very clear nutritionally of the way to proceed to lose weight and improve your body. There is a lot of information on fats, protein, and the importance of a healthy balance of foods.<BR>Of course this is a Dave Draper book, so you know part of the program is going to involve weightlifting. Dave is an absolute believer in the value of resistance training in combatting the fat epidemic, and he offers a number of insights on training as a key to developing a healthier you. <BR>Where this book excels is in the motivation/positive thinking area. Draper's writing style feels like a conversation, and his accent on the importance of mental attitude, goal setting and improved self-esteem is all-important for the development and maintenance of a successful program. He even provides a web address to readers to link up and track the success of their program, and provides regular updates to this book, and the tools he uses as part of the program (all for no charge).<BR>Some of the material was a little too basic for my tastes, but I always enjoy the motivation supplied by Dave's writings. This is an excellent starting point for anyone interested in pursuing a new fitness/nutrition program, and are unsure which of thew 32,086 (or is that 87) books or programs to try.	2002-07-15
US	46290693	R2GGKW8N8PZY4I	0399148582	193057565	You Cannot Be Serious	Books	3	2	4	N	N	MacEnroe's story would make a great book...	...too bad this isn't the one.<BR>Tennis's most legendary bad boy, and television's finest commentator (sorry Bud Collins), McEnroe knows tennis. That's clear from early in the book. Unfortunately, Johnny Mac doesn't really have a handle on his precise role in the annals of tennis history.<BR>McEnroe played against some of the true legends of the game (Borg and Conners, primarily), and he shows near reverence when discussing them, and some of their matches. It's somewhat odd to read this, because McEnroe was never one to show respect on the court itself. But allow some other genuine masters of the game to be the topic of conversation, and Johnny Mac slips into his enfant terrible persona, primarily when discussing Ivan Lendl and Boris Becker. <BR>His personal relationships take the same tone as his professional ones, and its clear from his wirting and memories that once you get on MacEnroe's bad side, you're there to stay. He is absolutely (and somewhat over-harshly) disparaging of Tatum O'Neal, the mother of two of his children. I had just finished this book when Tatum made the \\"revelation\\" that Mac was a steroid user (unaccounted for in this biography, which leads me to question some of the veracity of Mac's other accounts), and JM criticized Tatum for making such revelations that would be to the detriment of their children. MacEnroe must have dozed through some of his own writing, for his early family life with Tatum was no \\"Father Knows Best\\" episode.<BR>There is a lot of trash talk in this book (he obviously does not care for the Williams sisters - again this could be personal, as he had challenged them to play a charity match). Mac Enroe should have been above all that. Having made the transition from the courts to the business and entertainment world, you would think this guy could tell hard stories without lowering himself to a juvenile level. He doesn't quite find that balance.<BR>Some great pages of tennis history are here. So is some purging of personal demons. But ultimately, and unfortunately, I think far less of MacEnroe having read this book.	2002-06-28
US	46290693	R3VJJ0JG028MZP	0972018409	71128727	ABSolution: The Practical Solution for Building Your Best Abs	Books	4	43	46	N	N	More than an Ab -solution	Shawn Phillips knows how to market an ab book - pull up your shirt, expose your stomach, and watch the dollars. Fortunately there is a good deal of &quot;mind&quot; working with the muscle in Shawn's program, and some solid explanation of exercises, food and other tangibles necessarily part of the ab-mix.<br />Shawn's got an incredible stomach, and it takes a lot more than crunches to develop this type of build. Fortunately, he is generous (far more generous than a lot of authors) in explaining how to achieve something vaguely resembling his core (I say vaguely - unless you are going to retire, hire a personal chef, and devote yourself to fitness 24/7, noone is going to be mistaking you for the author in the next few years).<br />The abdominal exercises in the book are very well detailed and explained, and the building of a program is rather methodically presented. Shawn targets each section (upper, lower, obliques, and back) with sharp focus on detail, and provides enough variations on core exercises to keep the program interesting and challenging. I also like the fact that there is a recognition that crunches alone are not getting you the &quot;look&quot;, and there is some focus in this book on other weightlifting programs that compliment the development of an admirable core section (can you say Squats?).<br />Nutritional information is also presented in a thorough manner, though I have better nutritional guidelines (see my other reviews if you want some good ones). Remember, body fat percentage is also key to ab development, and repeated core exercising won't get you the look if your body fat is over 10-12 percent.<br />My attitude on books like &quot;Absolution&quot; is, if I learn a new component of exercise, or eating, or mental assistance in my program that I use for more than 2 weeks, then the book has served its purpose. I moderated my core training program with some of Shawn's exercises, and I'm pleased with the burn, and look I've gotten from them. That makes this book worthy of a reccomendation.is book worthy of a reccomendation.	2002-06-25
US	46290693	R387PSG66N1GMY	0375507876	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	5	123	138	N	N	...or, The Mysteries of Budapest	I hadn't heard of Arthur Phillips before I began reading Prague, but by page 6, I felt I had read 50 other books by him. Alienated youth, joined by a sense of ennui in a habitat not their own...sound familiar? Then, by page 20 I realized that this was, indeed, something remarkably fresh. And incredibly well written.<BR>Don't open this story looking for a party in Prague itself, for the city merely plays Emerald City to Budapest's Oz. The 5 main characters of Phillips books are forever looking toward Prague while chasing money, love, and in one interesting case family through Budapest in the early 1990's. There isn't a whole lot at first to like about Emily, Scott, his brother John, Mark and Charles - but as their adventures roll along the pages, it is humor that makes these characters endearing.<BR>Phillips use of the English language is awe-inspiring. It's clear that he recognizes the kudos showered upon Michael Chabon for taking time to perfect language and idioms in his storytelling. I kept thinking of Chabon's &quot;The Mysteries Of Pittsburgh&quot; while reading this book, and if you are a fan, you will greatly enjoy Phillip's storytelling skills.<BR>I've read this type story so many times over the years (Bright Lights, Big City, Less Than Zero, The Secret History are less worthy members of this literary club). When I finished Prague, I felt like I truly cared about not only the outcome, but the characters themselves. That's difficult to pull off in a novel about self-absorbed, capital-hungry Gen X'ers, but Phillips does a great job in achieving this.	2002-06-18
US	46290693	RUVPMKT7PNU4X	0767908309	28613101	Comic Wars: How Two Tycoons Battled Over the Marvel Comics Empire--And Both Lost	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Adventures of Greedman and Bankruptcyboy	The struggles of Marvel Comics, both historically and financially are given the &quot;epic&quot; treatment in this throughly enjoyable book. Dan Raviv has taken a corporate story of greed and powerlust and created a hot pageturner, where supervillians come straight from the pages of the Wall Street Journal. The battle for control of Marvel, fought in backrooms and ultimately decided in Bankrputcy Court has a cast of characters that are riveting (Carl Ichan, Ron  Perelman), primarily in the fact that they feel compelled to destroy an American cultural phenomenon for the sake of personal gain.<BR>As you read this book, you are amazed by the arrogance and ignorance of most of the major players. Marvel remains loaded with franchise players, and the potential for (financial) exploitation of its cast of comic superheroes (X-men, Spiderman...) seems obvious to everyone but the money men and the lawyers (the true evildoers in this story). <BR>This is a great summertime read for both MBAs and comic fans. <BR>The only shortcoming that I can point out is a lack of a rich development of the history of comic books - it would have placed this courtroom battle with the significance it deserves. Allthough the book itself is fiction, I strongly reccomend Michael Chabon's &quot;Adventures of Kavalier and Clay&quot; as a companion read to this book, for Chabon delivers incredible insight into the comic book industry's origins and struggles.	2002-06-12
US	46290693	R1ODOJM5QO84KQ	0312282966	307181696	The Equation: A 5-Step Program for Lifelong Fitness	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Smart Eating (Not DIETING!)	Anyone who expends more than a brain cell planning a &quot;smart&quot; meal is labelled a dieter in our society. It's a poor use of the term, and this is one of the first books I have ever read that puts that simple knowledge to practical use. For this is not about &quot;dieting&quot;, but rather an easy to learn method for making smart choices in the nutrition category.<BR>Dan Isaacson smartly emphasizes the importance of CHANGE, as opposed to elimination in &quot;The Equation&quot;. Eating, he recognizes, is as much a habit as a necessity, and working through the habit mentality to develop more healthy practices is the goal of his program. Stressing the appropriateness of burning off the calories consumed through exercise is also part of Isaacson's &quot;equation&quot; (as is consumption of large amounts of water), so this plan is more program than simply a diet plan.<BR>There are a few factors that take this book a level above most eating plans. One is Isaacson's style of writing, which I found very uplifting and empowering. You feel he genuinely wants you to succeed.  Second, Isaacson's methods and lessons on the &quot;change&quot; topic are applicable to any area of life, not simply eating. There are some very intelligent tips for making positive change sprinkled throughout this book.<BR>This is NOT a lose 10-in-10 program, so if you are looking for a fast fix, it's best to avoid this book (it's also best to avoid lose 10-in-10 programs, but you allready know that). If you are looking for a smart method to improve eating patterns, and coonsequently improve esteem and lifestyle, this book is a wise first step.	2002-05-09
US	46290693	RQTSDOOUWC598	1579542298	516963410	The Men's Health Hard Body Plan : The Ultimate 12-Week Program for Burning Fat and Building Muscle	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Good program, GREAT technique illustration	First of all, a word for beginners - this book, NOR any other book, is going to give you a &quot;Hard Body&quot; in 12 weeks. It will give you the foundation.<BR>The Hard Body Plan comes straight from the pages of Men's Health, so if you are a subcriber/regular reader, you're not going to find a whole lot new (in terms of programs) by purchasing this book. Likewise, if you have experience in the gym (lifting for an extended period), the programs set forth in this book won't be particularly challenging (I was a little disappointed that all of the Hard Body Plan programs were 3 day/week, since I work out 4 days - I had to do some rearranging and adding in order to create a 12 week program out of this book).<BR>Having said all that, I keep this book near the top of my weightlifting reference pile. I have found it very valuable for studying proper form and technique, and for learning some variations on lifts that I regularly perform. The written description of exercises contained in this book were very well thought out, and provide an excellent means to review proper form. And the more time I spend working out, and the more I see examples of horrible form by others in the gym, I am very glad that I have a trainer, and resources such as this book, to remind me the value of &quot;perfect form/perfect execution&quot; with each and every lift. That is the single most important step to significant strength and mass gain, and it is point emphasized over and over again in the &quot;Hard Body Plan&quot;.<br />There is diet information in this book as well. It is a nice, though rather general introduction to proper nutrition, but shouldn't be relied on as your only source. <BR>If you buy this book for guidance, you may find that you outgrow it rather quickly. If you buy it as a reference, you will appreciate the investment.	2002-04-23
US	46290693	R2H5WIWQV4RRYN	1579543081	317510338	Essential Arms: An Intense 6-Week Program	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Good (not great) program for bis and tris	Ahh, the appeal of the monster bicep. Guys want them, girls want the guys that want them. And all you have to do is EVERYTHING to get them.<BR>This book crushes the &quot;spot training&quot; myth (despite it's alluring title) and, quite properly follows the rationale that big arms require a lot more work than curls, curls, curls. Brungardt's program incorporates a lot of &quot;core&quot; (abdominal, low back)and leg training for larger arms, which while absolutely correct, will probably scare off the uninitiated. <BR>&quot;Essential Arms&quot; is, in its basic form, a 6 week quad/bi/tri/ab program, requiring 2 days in the gym. Hopefully, serious readers will use the other gym days to work chest, back and shoulders. Otherwise, you'll be able to spot the &quot;Essential Arms&quot; guy across the gym - he'll be the disporportionate one.<BR>Use this book as a tool for a full workout program, or look at one or two exercises to incorporate into your regular workout, and it has value. Overall, however, most of these exercises are included in other sources (primarily &quot;Men's Health Hard Body Plan&quot;, who are also the publishers of this book), and a book that includes entire program structures, including cardio and diet makes a more sensible purchase.	2002-04-12
US	46290693	RT2U20LFY9VMK	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	5	10	16	N	N	The most enjoyable read I've ever experienced	I know it wasn't Michael Chabon's intention to seduce only me when he penned &quot;The Mysteries of Pittsburgh&quot; - but this book taught me the sheer bliss of falling in love with an author.<BR>It is hard to say what makes TMOP such a wonderful work - the stylized use of prose, the interplay of angst and exhileration, the inception, and then (supposed) resolution  of internal conflicts, or characters who lives play out like a croquet match set to vintage Motown music.<BR>The easy way to explain what this book is about is to call it &quot;Catcherintherye-esque&quot;, which is insulting to both Chabon and Salinger. Sure it is a coming-of-age story, albeit one with gangsters and fops, &lt;0-type partying, cycles and smokestacks. Then you get to Chapter 2 and become really confused. But confusion is okay, because this classic bildungsroman has, at its true core, a lot of love and concern for Art (the central character), Arthur and Phlox (rivals who would be friends at a party other than this one), and the other wonderfully drawn people that populate the book.<BR>I re-read this book every 6 months and it never fails to leave me blissful (which is surprising, because much of the story is a downer). <BR>Michael's other books (Kavalier and Klay, Wonder Boys) are also marvels, but &quot;Pittsburgh&quot; is the one that repeatedly stirs me. While I realize it means a hit to his wallet, I hope this book never makes it to celluloid. This book is so appealing to the imaginiation that any vision but the reader's own would do disservice to Art's (or is it really Michael Chabon's) world.	2002-04-10
US	46290693	R38C28DZPPALI6	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This time, you can Believe The Hype!	This is a book I was convinced I would enjoy when I heard about it's publication, yet feared over the past few weeks. Press send-offs like that enjoyed by Mr. Fox in the last few weeks tend to diminish the enjoyment of any memoir, and Michael has been all over the press like cheap cologne lately. Having said that, it took me a day and a half to read \\"Lucky Man\\", and I was sad that it ended so quickly. Rarely have such tragic circumstances (Parkinson's, alcoholism...) be portrayed with such an \\"I can take it all on\\" attitude. The side characters (Tracey Pollen, preious castmates...) are skillfully described.  And you just know by the end of the book that there lies a BIG 2nd (or 3rd or 4th) act in Michael's immediate future.<BR>You'll probably trip over a lot of people reading this on the beach this summer. That's all good, for there is a lot of \\"uplift\\" in this story. Bravo, MJF, for sharing with the rest of us.	2002-04-08
US	46290693	R2RMQMNFM5SKVZ	1892959046	773350279	Alcoholics Anonymous: Reproduction of the First Printing of the First Edition	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Essential Reading for those on &quot;the path&quot;	For over 60 years, AA's &quot;Big Book&quot; has brought comfort and hope to millions looking for a way through the fire of alcoholic addiction. The reprint of the &quot;First Edition&quot; (the book is now in it's Fourth) allows a look at the origin of the program, as well as an opportunity to assess the changes that have occurred in the last 60 years. <BR>The first 164 pages remain unchanged, as well as the inclusion of certain stories (Dr. Bob's Nightmare, among others). The first edition contains stories of &quot;lower bottom&quot; drunks than the more recent editions, but also makes clear that the foundation of the program, primarily untweaked since the founding, represents a true course of recovery for the interested.<BR>No matter which edition of the book you own, reading the 1st edition gives a great perspective, from both a historical and a spiritual angle, of what arose from that first meeting of Bill W. and Dr. Bob.	2002-04-08
US	46290693	R9YIM7C9VNTPQ	1580174434	100829079	The Qigong Year	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Solid Intro to QiGong	Check out the fittest people in any gym, and you will usually note that flexibility is a key component of their program. Check any truly spiritually centered person, and notice the glow of serenity than surrounds them. Combine both, and you understand why Western thinking is scurrying to latch onto QiGong.<BR>Combining gentle, flexible movement with breathing and visual meditation, Qi Gong is difficult to learn by book alone. Having said that, I found &quot;The QiGong Year&quot; to be the most helpful of texts in introducing this method of movement which promotes positive qi (energy), healing, and a healthy mind. Mr, Bruney breaks his introduction to the phases of QiGong down on a month-by-month basis, and writes in easy to follow prose, focusing on the Ba Duan Jin (8 Fine exercises). Some poems, meditations and Taoist traditions help explain the value of the program. And the illustrations,paper and colors used in publishing this book were very carefully chosen to maintain harmony with the theme of the writing, something rarely promoted in Western literature.<BR>Obviously, the best way to learn QiGong is through work with an expert. Barring that, The qiGong Year makes for a very acceptable substitute.	2002-04-05
US	46290693	RK6KBEQAWBWEY	0823084302	107893211	The Soulful Divas: Personal Portraits of over a Dozen Divine Divas, from Nina Simone, Aretha Franklin, & Diana Ross to Patti Labelle, Whitney Houston, & Janet Jackson	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Entertaining, but unsatisfying look at some of soul's greats	I wanted to love this book...after all, the music world is filled with legendary anecdotes of some of the women profiled by Mr. Nathans (Diana's attitudes, Chaka's seductive powers, Natalie's substance abuse history), and together these women could make a CD that you'd drop in the player on Sunday, and still be singing along with come payday.<BR>Unfortunately, the profiles are more cotton candy than ham hocks. Most of these ladies would deserve (and have allready written, or have had written about them) entire tomes which still leave out juicy details. The section on Phyliss Hyman, a masterful, yet tragic soulstress, leaves the reader starved for more of a history. The Patti LaBelle pages ignore key sections of her (and her bandmates) historic segue from a &quot;girl group&quot; to the infamous glitter sisters known as LaBelle. <BR>There are some excellent photos in this book, and some interesting stories about the profiled women, but most of the details have been previously discussed by the singers themselves.	2002-04-04
US	46290693	R2M0NY167XYFSU	0736037535	858519006	Mind and Muscle	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Training the brain as well as the body	Looking for an &quot;edge&quot; in the gym (or in life, because the lessons of Mind and Muscle translate very well outside of the weightroom? This book offers some very helpful practices for involving the mind in your workouts.<BR>Mr. Whitmarsh's book centers on the idea that tremendous gains in size and durability can be made through an active mind-muscle connection. Through the use of various assessment exercises, the program is designed to teach you training strengths and weaknesses, and how to use mental tools to increase your effectiveness in goal setting and strength gains.<BR>If you spend any time in a weight room, its clear that most people go about their lifting as a passive participant, especially from a mental standpoint. While involving mental tools is a slow learning process (as Whitmarsh admits), when incorporated into your program, the benefits are substantial. Using some of his methods, I've increased my bench presses over 20 pounds in the last month. I also have an increased desire to excel.<BR>My trainer is big on the idea that &quot;Intensity + Intelligence = Results&quot;. If your program requires a mental boost, or if you fail to recognize the importance of the thought process in your lifting regime, I encourage you to pick up this book.	2002-04-02
US	46290693	R2ICUDUKABGHIM	0399527192	315782930	Prime	Books	5	45	47	N	N	&quot;Realistic&quot; fitness with solid advice	How refreshing to read a fitness book that doesn't pander to the &quot;chiseled chic&quot; set, or promise 20 inch biceps in 20 hours.<br />Paris's &quot;PRIME&quot; is exactly what it bills itself as: a realistic approach to fitness (physically, mentally and nutritionally) for the 40 year old man. The book copiously details goal setting as a necessary step prior to commencing a well thought out fitness program. Bob also details three variations of fitness programs for the beginner or more advanced individual, and allows room for variations for those of us with more than a passing familiarity with the weight room. The nutrition section is incredibly detailed, and is a very valuable resource for people interested in sensible balanced eating as opposed to &quot;diet-of-the week&quot; trends which seem to dominate best sellers lists.<br />The book contains very nice photographs which, suprisingly, illustrate practical, attainable results, as compared to the oiled, steroid-inflated image most publishers try to sell us on.<br />I threw away a pack of Marlboros after reading page 40 of this book.<br />This, like any other fitness guide, isn't going to supply &quot;instant motivation&quot; for those who can't see their way into the gym. For those of us who have made workouts an important (and neccesary) part of our lifestyle, however, Bob Paris has supplied us with a genuine gem - solid advice, practical exercise, smart nutrition, and direct motivation. This is a 5 star thank you to him.	2002-01-07
