US	46315868	R28LN9W4JK50TD	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Easy reading that says a lot about the human experience	It took me about 60 pages to get into this book, but at that point, this book really took hold of me.  The book's strength is that the characters and the writing is pretty straightforward and accessible, yet says more about the human experience than most other books aspiring to be deep and profound literature. <br /> <br />Hornby has a great knack for finding the details that make us unique and human and there's a lot of great dialog between the characters.  It's a lot about relationships, and the connections between people that make life meaningful.  But done in such a breezy manner through accessible characters we can all relate to.  I can't overstate how rare and impressive this is.  The characters could easily come across as literary constructs, or the dialog become heavy handed.  But Hornby gives this a light touch, creating very real characters in a very real story, expressing very real ideas.	2005-10-05
US	46315868	R1KE7V2REBAVXG	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Breezy, beach read...not like the movie	I'll start by saying I saw the movie, which I enjoyed immensely, about 18 months before I read this book.  The movie was an entertaining cat and mouse game between a con man and an FBI agent.  This is basically Frank Abagnale, the con man, telling us all how he did it. <br /> <br />Abagnale is clearly a very talented and smart individual, and yes, you start to root for him, even though he's doing things that are wrong and harmful.  It's entertaining to read, and Abagnale's \\"accomplishments\\" during his fraudulent crime spree are quite impressive. <br /> <br />Still, I was a little disappointed with Abagnale's self examination, which was rather perfunctory, and the descriptions of all the frauds start to get a little numbing after a while.  I bought this book for some light reading after reading a couple of particularly difficult and dense books.  It's certainly entertaining, but some readers will be left yearning for a little more analysis into the author's character and actions.	2005-09-24
US	46315868	R2TOHCZ0V2FYLL	0380722178	372607266	Nobody Nowhere: the Extraordinary Autobiography of an Autistic	Books	4	4	4	N	N	At times very moving...other times a jumbled mess...oddly inspirational	I find it nearly impossible to give a star number rating to this book.  It contains some highly moving sections, and provides a startling view of an autistic mind.  A lot of the book is also a disorganized, barely comprehensible mess. I suppose this provides insight into Ms. Williams mind, but there are no chapters, just a string of short passages, providing fantastic images and experiences with confusing and non-existent narration.  For example, I never figured out why Ms. Williams left Australia for the UK, but there must have been a reason.  It took a while to realize she was living in Australia in the first place.  So much happens, yet so much is left unsaid.  It provides insight into what the author must have been going through, but it is disorienting, and ultimately, makes the book a difficult read.    I found it worth slogging through.  The book sometimes attains a poetic quality at times.  Ms. Williams had a very difficult childhood and life, and at times, I found myself cringing at what must have been a hellish existence.  I had never read about the subject of love from an autistic point of view, and the \\"romance\\" with someone similarly afflicted as Ms. Williams.  I never realized how harrowing the emotion must be to an autistic person, and the fact the brief, difficult interlude was stated so matter of factly made it even more arresting.    Having read the Grandin autobiography, \\"Emergence, Labeled Autistic\\", it's hard not to compare the two.  I enjoyed that book, but Grandin wrote in clinical, tedious detail.  Williams takes a much more artistic, free wheeling style showing that the autistic mind is difficult to characterize.  Nobody Nowhere starts with a disturbing poem with style and emotion that is simply beyond what I expect Ms. Grandin could possibly muster.    Another difference between the two books is that Grandin grew up in a loving household, and was fortunate to have family and teachers who were way ahead of their time to provide her the best education and direction available.  Ms. Williams grew up in a dysfunctional family and had no such advantages, yet still was able to overcome much of her autism.  Of course, one of the frustrations of reading the book is that it is hard to get any real idea how she accomplished this.  Like so much of the narration, things just happen.  Still, as the father of an autistic child, this is very inspirational that the affliction can be overcome, even in the worst of circumstances.      It's not an easy read, but worth the difficult journey and barely comprehensible sections.  I would not recommend this as someones first exposure to autism, but for someone familiar with the affliction, I consider it required reading.	2005-09-05
US	46315868	R37OHH5OT543JF	0060731427	743679167	How Soccer Explains the World	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Doesn't live up to premise of title...still a good read	I suppose a book titled \\"10 Essays of the Political, Social, and Economic Underpinnings of Soccer\\" won't sell as many books, but in this case, would be more accurate.  Maybe \\"How the World Explains Soccer\\" would be the better way to go.  I had high expectations when I bought this, and while it's a good read, it was hard not to be disappointed with the book not really delivering on the title.   <br /> <br />That said, some of the chapters were compelling.  The first chapter demonstrating how Red Star Brigade was instrumental in Serbian nationalism in the 90's was rather chilling.  The chapter on Celtic-Chelsea rivalry and Nigerians playing in the Ukraine were also most interesting to me.  As a soccer fan that catches the occasional MLS match on US television, follows the US national team, and watches several World Cup matches every four years, I found the essays broadened my appreciation for the sport.  More dedicated fans of the beautiful game will probably find some of the essays less informative, since a few seemed more like good reporting and really didn't have anything really profound to say, despite Foer trying mightily to do so.  <br /> <br />	2005-07-28
US	46315868	R1FH3HC2LYO844	0618562095	941261274	The Perfect Mile: Three Athletes, One Goal, and Less Than Four Minutes to Achieve It	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Well researched book about three great athletes and a single goal	This is an impressive book, and the most impressive is the level of detail Bascomb performed in researching events that occurred half a century ago.  Bascomb really presents an accurate, \\"fly-on-the-wall\\" experience of Roger Bannister, Wes Santee, and John Landy pursuit of being the first to break the 4-minute mile barrier.  Bascomb presents such a human and complex portrayal of each individual that I found myself despairing that only one of them could do it.    In fact, a case could be made that although Bannister was the first, it was more a matter of circumstance than superior talent.   Landy had the disadvantage of being from Australia, where facilities and competitive opportunities were quite limited.  His training performances were demonstratively superior to Bannister.  And Santee, representing the University of Kansas, had obligations to his team, and racing multiple races most weekends, had few opportunities to focus on a single mile race fully rested.  Bannister had his medical studies taking much of his time, but could focus on breaking the four-minute mile in his training, and his initial 4-minute mile triumph could be more accurately described as a time trial than a race.  But his victory in the Commonwealth Games over John Landy vindicated him as the greatest miler of his time.    One thing is clear is while these were extraordinary athletes, these were hardly the good old days of amateur competition.  Most athletes lived in near poverty while meet organizers made good money promoting their competitions.  Bannister had to return a trophy for a smaller replica, lest he lose his amateur status.  Wes Santee had the audacity to suggest he earn his free market value in a sport where sports promoters and the media were earning money on his performances, and was eventually banned by the petty and vindictive AAU.    This book is especially recommended for runners and track athletes, who will identify more closely with Bannister, Landy, and Santee.   As a runner, that's what hooked me onto this book.  But I think anyone will get a lot out this story of three great athletes overcoming barriers, striving to be the best miler in the world.	2005-07-14
US	46315868	R2QF2E46THFP3C	0446695564	718882852	Skinny Dip	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Funny, engaging page turner	I've read two books by Hiassen, his first (Tourist Season, highly recommended) and his last novel to date, Skinny Dip.  I certainly can't say there has been much evolution in his writing, but that is a good thing, in that both books are off-beat love stories to the Florida Everglades in the form of page turning crime stories with strange villains and quirky, yet loveable \\"good guys\\". <br /> <br />Where Hiassen really succeeds is that he gives his strange cast of characters real emotions.  They react to the plot developments like a real person might.  Unlike, lesser authors where odd characters and situations come across as contrived literary constructs, the story seems real and the characters are those we can identify with.  Sure, it's far-fetched this story could actually happen in real life, but the story never gets bogged down in absurdities.  For that reason, it seems almost real and I think that's why the humor works so well.  Hiassen seems to find a way to make the material fresh, even if it's a basically a story I've already read before by him.  <br /> <br />So if you're a Hiassen fan, you'll probably enjoy this, and if you haven't read him, this is as good as any place to start.	2005-07-01
US	46315868	R2FM0UOAAE9WO6	0060005696	267833178	The Paradox of Choice: Why More Is Less	Books	5	2	3	N	N	How Choice Underlies So Much Of Our Lives	This could have easily been a fairly dry, quasi-academic tome on the psychology of decision making, but what makes this book great is that Swartz demonstrates the relevance of the psychology of decision making to so many aspects of our lives.  His general argument is that more choice is not necessarily good, and in fact, often makes our lives worse, rather than better. <br /> <br />Swartz divides decision makers into two general groups, satisficers and maximizers.  Satisficers consider options until they find that meets and minimum criteria, and then select that option.  Maximizers our constantly looking for the best selection, and are only satisfied with the best option.  As more options become available, clearly maximizers need to work harder to exhaust all possibilities, and in fact, they really can't.  We all have some \\"maximer\\" in us, but Swartz cites studies that indicate the most dedicated maximizers suffer from borderline depression. <br /> <br />Swartz also demonstrates that as more choice becomes available, people are generally less happy, not more.  More choice can lead to higher expectations, which may not be met.  More choice leads to a higher probability that one may long for a different choice, another road not taken.  Swartz cites a number of studies along the way, many of them with counter-intuitive results.  It is well researched from Swartz's experience, but I should stress it is pretty lively, easy to read book. <br /> <br />The finding here have relevance to public policy, sales and marketing, and the age old \\"finding happiness in ones life\\".  Swartz concludes the book but showing ways we can deal with the increasing number of choices in our life to get more satisfaction.	2005-06-20
US	46315868	R1BG0MDLNZYKS2	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Geisha Fairytale	This book took hold of me at once and never let me go.  It's the story of Sayuri, a girl from a poor fishing town sold by her desperate father who ends up one of the most prominent geishas of Japan before, during, and after World War II.  The story is told as the recounting of Sayuri's memoirs by a New York University history professor. <br /> <br />Sayuri's world is a world where young children are bought and sold, a woman's virginity is auctioned off to the highest bidder, and people's lives go unacknowledged lest the illegimate birth cause \\"complications\\".  Sayuri simply must agree to what her elders and rich benefactors decide.   <br /> <br />Therefore, to have any \\"choice\\" in this world, a geisha must resort to subtle manipulation and hidden agendas and that is the strength of the story.  Sayuri learns these ropes from her geisha mentor Mameha, herself a prominent geisha, before plotting a course for her own life.  Sure, Sayuri is a little vain and cunning, but those are indeed important qualities for a great geisha to have. <br /> <br />The story is a little neat and convenient, but this book is more about the world of geishas and how one geisha skillfully copes with this world.  And Golden expertly draws the reader into this world.	2005-06-07
US	46315868	R1VA03KYE9TPO0	0743243803	273355303	The Partly Cloudy Patriot	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great spokeswoman for nerds and leftist patriots	I whipped through this collection of essays in about three days with little effort.  Sarah Vowell is a completely unapologetic nerd and left wing patriot, and writes on subjects as diverse as Al Gore, Tom Landry, a lunchroom 700 feet below sea level at Carlsbad Caverns, Pop-A-Shot Basketball, Tom Cruise, and Gettysberg.    While some of the essays are more personal diversions, such as the one describing her life as a twin, a common theme through the book is her love of the USA and her desire to learn as much as this country as possible.  I had to admire the fact that even though George W. Bush is the brunt of jokes throughout this book, she describes how proud she was to sing The National Anthem at George W. Bush's first inauguration, while other dissenters remained silent.    Vowell always seems to have a unique insight on something, and provides commentary on details few ever really notice. It isn't really deep analysis, but entertaining and insightful.  However, if Al Gore had taken Ms. Vowell's advice, it's a good chance he would have become The President, in my opinion.    For nerdy, left-wing patriots such as myself, give it an extra 1/2 star.	2005-05-01
US	46315868	R2L3PWIP17N9DR	1400034639	467724921	War Is a Force that Gives Us Meaning	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Provocative and disturbing	Chris Hedges spent over a decade as a journalist covering wars in Europe, Asia, and Latin America and shares his experiences in this book.  I felt Hedges has little original to say about war in general.  What is extraordinary is the way he says it.    Each chapter is sort of a riff on a various theme of war.  Hedges presents the theme, provides some examples from his experience, discusses the theme some more, and provides more examples in a more rapid fire manner that start to deviate from the theme.  Each chapter is like hearing a jazz band get lost in a frenzy of improvisation.    Hedges acknowledges his near addiction to war.  He clearly depicts war's ugliness in graphic detail.  But I would hesitate to call this an anti-war book.  Hedges certainly considers war a bad thing, but describes war as satisfying human needs such as a sense of purpose, a primal life and death struggle, and thrill seeking behavior.  Reading through this book, it felt like reading the confessions of a heroine addict, and in the last chapter, Hedges indeed compares his involvement as a war journalist to heroine addiction.    I found it increasingly difficult to get each chapter as each grisly and inhumane detail was piled onto the next. Hedges realism about the human forces that drive wars is most disturbing when he makes it apparent that the depravity of war is really in us all.	2005-04-23
US	46315868	R18NBISXW1PZV1	0143034685	740535212	Overcoming Autism: Finding the Answers, Strategies, and Hope That Can Transform a	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Best practical book on autism I've found so far	As the father on an autistic child, I've bought a few books that claimed to be practical guides for parents, but unfortunately, come across as dry academic tomes about setting up an entire special needs curriculum.  I've also attended a seminar on applied behavioral analysis (ABA) which came across as turning my son into a \\"trained monkey\\", rather really overcoming the problem.  And thoughtful friends and family members have provided me with inspirational stories about maniacally devoted parents of \\"cured\\" autistic children, who have way more intensity and resources that I could hope to commit to the problem, and therefore, leave me with feelings of hopelessness rather than inspiration.    So it was with great relief and comfort reading Overcoming Autism, which takes a sensible ABA approach to overcoming autism, and provides a number of practical remedies to many common difficulties parents face with autistic children.  The book is well organized, and Dr. Koegel is highly experienced and respected in the field of autistic child development.  A strength of the book is that many helpful case studies are provided about particular problems autistic children have.  And the solution is always sensible, and something the parents can easily implement.  LaZebnick's personal account with her own son, who was effectively overcome most of his autism, really fleshed out the book and provided a well needed emotional voice throughout all the factual information.    The book is definitely written from a woman's perspective, and a few times, I was almost asking myself \\"Where's the father\\" while reading.  I would have like more of a father's perspective or discussion of the father's role, but that is a minor quibble.  I expect to be consulting this book often as I raise my son.	2005-04-10
US	46315868	R1XKIRT1IBAFF5	0380715430	101867755	The Mother Tongue - English And How It Got That Way	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Entertaining, even if not totally accurate	Tackling the entire English language in a 250 page book is a pretty ambitious task, but then of course, Bryson was just warming up before taking on the history of everything.  And since Bryson is not a professional linguist, you have to wonder if he's really up to it.  And as previous reviewers have pointed up, the book has inaccuracies.    I didn't care.  It's certainly entertaining to read and informative.  Bryson's got most of it right, and he presents an interesting story of how the English language got to where is it today.  Some of it is fascinating.    Bryson comes across as a dinner guest who knows a somewhat less than he thinks he knows, but is clever and witty enough that no one really cares.  It's fun, interesting and informative enough to hear him talk, so I can forgive him if he gets it wrong sometimes.  I'm not a linguist, and you probably aren't one either.	2005-03-19
US	46315868	R1FJAHDCGECB4F	0446671827	438049408	Emergence: Labeled Autistic	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Amazing person and story...if not well written	Temple Grandin has become an inspiration to the autistic community, as someone who has become highly successful both despite and because of her autism.  As someone raising an autistic child, this seemed to be a good book to read to help my son reach his full potential. <br /> <br />While it is certainly inspirational that someone with autism wrote this book, I'm afraid the prose is quite wooden and plodding, and the 150 page book seems a lot longer than that.  Too often, long journal entries and letters are used in place of narrative, and not always to good effect.  I suppose this isn't going to make me popular here, but this book can be tedious to read at times. <br /> <br />But it's worth the effort.  Ms. Grandin provides insights into the autistic mind unfortunately very few can possibly provide, and it has helped me to understand what my son must be going through.  A lot of facts and theories of autistic behavior are woven into the story to make it informative enough.  Few autobiographies are published about average people, but certainly Temple Grandin is an extraordinary and inspirational figure, and simply reading about her life, however weakly it's presented, is rewarding.  Clearly Ms. Grandin benefited from a determined mother and instructors and many health care professionals that were well ahead of their time in understanding her condition, and probably that is the most important message one gets from this book.    <br /> <br />For anyone who knows someone with autism, I'd give it five stars.  For someone with a more passing interest in the subject, the rating sinks to three stars.	2005-03-03
US	46315868	RJ294426TO5OW	0743236017	422115356	Sex, Drugs, and Cocoa Puffs: A Low Culture Manifesto	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Often brilliant, funny, and never dull	This book of various essays on pop culture is nearly priceless.  Klosterman finds so much relevance in so many throw away items in items in pop culture at times its astonishing.  And hilarious.  I never thought Saved By the Bell or MTV's Real World could inspire even an interesting paragraph, but Klosterman finds a way to show the significance of these items at the same time conceding their banality in two excellent essays.  It's very impressive. <br /> <br />The essay on breakfast cereal was completely mindless, and completely laugh out loud funny, especially the descriptions of the socialogy and psychology of various cartoon characters in breakfast cereal ads. <br /> <br />Klosterman will take positions you'd never think he'd defend, like describing the brilliance of Billy Joel.  I can barely tolerate this artist, but Klosterman has made me reconsider him, and frankly, he was about the last person I'd expect to do this.  Nor does he take himself too seriously, as he describes his attendance at a Pop Music Conference for academics and music critics, which he totally skewers, even though he readily admits the conference is made for people like him. <br /> <br />And sprinkled through the book are some very insightful comments and insights about the human experience.  And Klosterman clearly exposes his personal weaknesses throughout. <br /> <br />Is it perfect?  No.  There are moments where Klosterman comes across like somebody drunk or stoned at a party who thinks he knows it all, and clearly doesn't.  Not all of the essays are great.  A comparison between Marilyn Monroe and Pamela Anderson as the representative sexpots of their generation isn't anywhere near as profound as Klosterman thinks it is, and is about twice as long as it should be.  And the chapter slamming soccer is a pointless, claiming that his experience as a youth baseball coach made him realize how soccer has failed in America.  Uh-huh. <br /> <br />Let me digress that in the United States, many go toendless lengths to say why soccer in un-American, or fails to capture are collective interest, or will fail as a sport, when the fact of the matter is, the just don't get it.  In other countries, people will freely admite they \\"don't get\\" baseball or American football, but Americans feel we need to go to endless lengths to avoid saying \\"I don't get soccer\\".  You might say Klosterman inspired me to write this commentary on his commentary.   <br /> <br />But ANYWAY, read this book, laugh a lot, look at the world a different way, and enjoy a few nuggets of wisdom.	2005-02-15
US	46315868	RGA12QFP6DJMA	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Entertaining, yet deep	Wow, never has a book spoken to me so much about the male perspective in relationships.   <br /> <br />The books opens with the main character, Rob a small record store owner, presenting a list of his top five memorable split-ups, which does not include being recently dumped by his girlfriend Laura for a dullard guy who lives above his apartment.  But we all can tell  this dumping really belongs at the top of his list.  And this is part of the beauty of the story.  The characters often do not state their feelings and intentions, but we can all see through them as the characters dance through the relationships they crave, but fear will lead to more pain.   <br /> <br />Another strength of the book is the humanity of the characters.  They certainly have their flaws, and do not make the best judgements at times.   Rob concedes how self-centered and insensitive he can be at times, and some of his conduct with Laura was absolutely disgraceful.    But he clearly has a compassionate side.  We find ourselves cheering for Rob, flawed as he is, as struggles to get Laura back, and find himself.    <br /> <br />While this sounds like a deep, psychological study, it's actually a hoot to read.  The understated British humor really works well with this material, and there's a great ensemble of supporting characters.  The dialog is wonderful, and it seems like light reading, but this most definitely is not. <br /> <br />As we all go through these experiences in our lives more than we care to admit, the book really spoke to me and men will likely identify with this more than women.  But it really speaks to a part of the human condition that everyone can identify with, in a highly entertaining way.	2005-02-12
US	46315868	RZ632XCXB20IZ	0060509570	950565118	The Unknown Darkness: Profiling the Predators Among Us	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Interesting enough insights, a bit tedious to read	I've read just about everything by John Douglas and other books on profiling, and am a bit of a Court TV junkie.  This book provides new information and insights into criminal profiling and certain cases than previously available, and for that reason, I'd recommend it for a true crime fan.  It provides new information on the Paul Bernardo / Karla Homolka husband and wife serial rape \\"team\\", the Buddhist Temple Massacre near Phoenix, and the Waco tragedy.  The fact that McCary presents fairly convincing evidence that Karla Homolka was hardly the \\"battered wife\\" she's usually presented to be in this highly documented case was the most startling to me.    The problem is the writing is tedious to read at several points, and the chapter on the Waco stand-off seems to go on forever.  The book could have used some more work by the editor, as some paragraphs don't really fit together and some of the narrative goes along in a herky jerky fashion.  For this reason, I would not recommend this book for someone with just a passing interest in the subject.	2005-01-02
US	46315868	R1KLD2X1RK8SZ4	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Why Kansas Matters	As with many of my liberal brethren, the results of the 2004 U.S. Presidential Election have caused me to reflect on why the left is increasingly considered \\"out of touch\\" with mainstream America, as typified by the \\"Red States\\".  Thomas Frank, who has lived in Kansas much of his life as a journalist, wrote a book explaining this phenomenon a few months before this election was held.  While I can't say it is an excellent book, Frank does indeed provide enough insights and understanding that I certainly recommend it. <br /> <br />Frank demonstrates that although the right supports economic policies that do not support middle and low-income farmers and the working class in Kansas, nevertheless, these same people enthusiastically support the conservative candidates. Frank explains this paradox by the fact that social issues drive the political agenda in Kansas more than economic issues, and the poor and middle class in Kansas tend to be socially conservative.   The right has shrewdly exploited this fact, and has smartly organized the low and middle class.  The left on the other hand, is viewed as either intellectual elitists, that don't really have a clue what is going on in Kansas, or vapid movie stars, which embrace an empty liberalism.  Interestingly enough, Frank claims the biggest political tensions are not between the left and right in Kansas, but between Moderate and Conservative Republicans. <br /> <br />Frank clearly understands his home state and the various political characters and movements within it, and interviews many of the important political and social leaders.  I found most of his conclusions to be pretty much on target.  The book is well researched. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, parts of the book come across as long-winded left-wing rants and most of the humor falls flat.  Sections of the book are tedious and repetitive to read.  Frank has plenty the say about how the right took over Kansas, but very little to say how the left actually lost it.  If weren't for the Epilogue, which ties everything together at the end and finally concedes the failures of the left in Kansas, the book would rate only 3 stars from me. <br /> <br />Frank successfully demonstrates the great relevance that this often poorly undersood state has to US politics, and for that, I am grateful.	2005-01-02
US	46315868	R1DI7XT5SYX5Q3	157322930X	389877689	High Maintenance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good story of finding one's self, not to mention a good loft	Jennifer Belle writes an engaging story of finding ones self, a soulmate, and a good loft in Manhattan, not necessarily in that order.      Liv Kellerman leaves her no good husband to a barely functional apartment, and after an odd job as an assistant for an eccentric blind judge, becomes a real estate agent.   As Liv starts putting her life back together, we meet an odd assortment of clients, boyfriends, co-workers, and off beat people in her neighborhood.    The strength of the book is the Kellerman character.  She is strong, yet can be vulnerable.  Savvy, yet prone to surprising lapses in judgement.  She keenly understands the character of various living spaces in New York, and makes numerous clever observations throughout the book.    While looking for the perfect loft in Manhattan is not something I've ever experienced and probably never will, the book is really about finding one's place in life, which is something we can all relate to.	2004-11-01
US	46315868	R1L9HCXBC8TS9O	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	3	16	24	N	N	Great writing, never comes together as a story	This is an unforgettable book, and that's why I found it somewhat disapointing.  It's the story of Victor Mancini, a sex-addict developing a con scheme to pretend to choke in restaurants to pay for the medical care of his dying mother, and the author certainly pushes the envelope hard.  Victor had a wild childhood which consisted of his mother escaping from prison or metal institutions to teach him important life lessons while engaging in reckless activities such as stealing school buses.  Palahniuk creates a number of memorable scenes, especially those when he visits his dying mother.  A few chapters about Victor's sexual exploits come across as Penthouse letters taken to the highest possible art form.  There are numerous witty and scathing observations throughout the book.    The problem I found is that it never came together as a story.  The characters are effectively without much further dimension than their various dysfunction's.  Various scenes barely connect.  It becomes hard to care about these characters with a plot that barely hangs together, and the slightly gimmicky ending has a muddled payoff.  So as with Victor's countless sexual encounters, something is missing which prevents satisfaction at the climax.	2004-10-11
US	46315868	R2YO7AIMBFCUBU	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Skillfully weaves history and nature around a dramatic event	These types of books are much more difficult to write that they look.  Winchester documents the eruption of Krakatoa, and weaves it into the history, politics, and economics of Indonesia, and in fact the rest of the world.  He also places the eruption in the context of the ebb and flow of geology and biology. I found his effort, for the most part, successful. <br /> <br />These books can be incredibly dense and difficult to read, but I was surprised how effortless much of this book is to read.  Winchester does wander into trivia and unnecessary detail, and at times, is a little frustrating.  A short chapter is devoted to a nervous elephant, apparently spooked by the geological activity proceeding the eruption, which I could have done without.  But for the most part, Winchester's attention to detail, extensive research, and enthusiasm makes this book work well for the most part. <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-10-03
US	46315868	R3S5CDICWAA1TQ	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good story, uniquely told...helped me with my son	When a dog is found dead with a gardening tool stuck in its side, a dogged investigation by the novel's hero, John Boone, into who is responsible for this deed, leads to unexpected revelations.  John is an autistic 15 year old who lives with his father, and the story is told from his point of view.  John has extraordinary abilities, but certain things that seem obvious to the reader John has trouble comprehending.  And while some previous readers have been underwhelmed by the story and the ending, I feel they miss the point that the greatness of this novel is not the story, but the way it is told.  No, John is not a scintillating conversationalist, but you had to admire his determination to find out the culprit of this deed, and delve into his dysfunctional family's secrets  <br /> <br />Not only does it work as a story, but provides a lot of insights into the autistic mind.  Haddon has worked with autistic individuals, and weaves the unique perspectives of an autistic teenager into the story.  My son has been diagnosed with autism 6 months ago, I've done some reading and research into how he behaves, but this book fleshed out my understanding of some details of his behavior.  Previous reviewers have questioned the accuracy of the portrayal of an autistic teenager in this book, and my son is certainly different, but personally, I found useful information here.	2004-09-12
US	46315868	R30Q5Q0S6XE337	0915297051	338426948	Runners and Other Dreamers	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good running writing from the early to mid 80's era...	This book is a series of various essays written by John L. Parker from the late 70's to the mid-80's.  Most of the essays are about running, races, and various track athletes from that period, but the last few essays are about fishing and hunting, as near as I could tell, and I found them forgettable. <br /> <br />The strength of the writing comes from the fact that Parker was a talented running himself in the early 70's, and clearly understands the subject matter intimately.  That he also knows personally many of the subjects of his essays adds to the depth and insights to his work here.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the most provocative essay is the dismissive epitaph of Jim Fixx, the famous author of running books, who lacks any real credibility in Parker's eyes.  While I found what Parker wrote to be dead on target, he is also guilty of being very disrespectful, written so soon after Fixx's death.  One thing you can say about Parker is that he is not afraid of controversy. <br /> <br />As a long time runner who trained and competed in this era, this book brought back a lot of good memories.  I would recommend non-runners read a few essays from this book to understand the strange tribe of runners, and would up my recommendation to four stars for any serious runner. <br />	2004-08-30
US	46315868	REFY4Z0GJKRPT	1580050972	165135774	No Touch Monkey!: And Other Travel Lessons Learned Too Late (Adventura Books Series)	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Ayun is whiney, self-absorbed.....and rocks!	I find it interesting reading reviews of this book, which are either of the &quot;Ayun Rocks&quot; variety, or &quot;What a ugly, self-absorbed American&quot; variety. I don't think I'd want Ayun as a traveling companion, but I did enjoy her adventures, and while there are no deep insights into the travel experience, society, bringing the world together, or other high-minded ideals, there are a lot of small, unique insights sprinkled through the book if one cares to look hard enough. It's not for the squeamish. I did not find the passages on bowel movements, lack of hygiene, scoring dope, and other moments best not recounted at the family dinner table excessive, and Halliday certainly didn't set out to write another travelogue anyway. Watch Travel Channel if that isn't your cup of tea. <br />  <br /> A wouldn't call it rip-roaring hilarious, but there are a lot of laughs, and it's written breezily enough that it's a good way to while away the afternoon. If they would let me give it 3 1/2 stars, that's what I'd give this book, so I'll round up to 4 stars. <br />	2004-08-01
US	46315868	RUGGGFI5O9D94	155832125X	152571860	Paul Kirk's Championship Barbecue Sauces: 175 Make-Your-Own Sauces, Marinades, Dry Rubs, Wet Rubs, Mops and Salsas (Non)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Learn from a master	You can buy lots of books on how to cook barbeque, but very few from accomplished masters such as Paul Kirk.  Only two things surpass his ego in this book:  His willingness to share some great recipes and insights, and his recipes themselves.<br />Pretty much every sauce, marinade, and relish I tried from this book turned out great.  It's no surprise to me that Paul Kirk is so accomplished with several bold and unique recipes.  Don't miss the orange-chile marinade, which he used to win a barbeque contest in Ireland. <br />I should mention that the book has a strong Kansas City-style slant to the barbeque, although Paul Kirk does make an effort to include different regional styles. <br />In addition to the recipes, Kirk provides &quot;Master Classes&quot; on barbeque sauces, rubs, and marinades.  I took this opportunity to develop my special secret rub with secret spices reflecting my partly Greek heritage.  Following Kirk's &quot;Master Class&quot; on rubs, I concocted a rub that I hoped would create gold in my Weber kettle.  Have I developed a killer rub to take the barbeque contest circuit by storm?  Well, probably not, but it was fun giving it a whirl, and if I say so myself, the results were pretty good.  <br />But if you ask me, most of the fun of barbequing is coming up with secret recipes, and putting your own stamp on things, and Paul Kirk has got me going.	2004-07-20
US	46315868	R33DXBBZ7IL8M4	0743235916	247955082	Call of the Mall: The Geography of Shopping by the Author of Why We Buy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun Read About Geography of Malls	This book is full of interesting stories, information, and ideas written in a breezy manner that made it easy for me to read it in a few settings.  Underhill has all sorts of ideas, thoughts, and criticisms about malls all over the world, which he is all too happy to share.  Perhaps the most interesting idea he puts forwards is that malls are mostly a creation of real estate developers, who have little understanding of effective retailing.  Of course, Underhill also delights in taking professional retailers to task with his various observations.<br />Anyone looking for a scientific, rigorous description of effective retailing in a mall is going to be disappointed.  That's probably for Underhill's clients.  Some chapters never seem to provide any facts or conclude anything, and come across as more random observations on a theme.  These instances seem more like an opportunity for the author to simply ramble on than really add something to the book.  (I suspect Paco Underhill really likes to hear himself talk!) <br />But this was largely fun to read, and so full of surprising facts and ideas such that I cannot help seeing the modern mall with new eyes.	2004-06-02
US	46315868	RV2BJZBWQ68X	0156005492	198406169	Under the Black Flag: The Romance and the Reality of Life Among the Pirates (Harvest Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Aarrr!  Good tale of pirates, if a little disorganized	Whenever historical figures such as pirates are so common in popular culture, I often wonder how accurate the representation is.  This book engagingly answers these questions. Not surprisingly, there is some truth to the modern image of a pirate.   For example, they often dressed with scarfs, lots of guns, and even kept parrots as pets.  On the other hand, they were largely brutal criminals, not jovial, romantic figures usually portrayed in stories.  <br />With such a fragmentary history, the big challenge is to present a coherent picture of pirate history.  Cordingly doesn't always pull this off.  I found the book disorganized in places, and some of the chapters have fairly loose threads holding the material together.  A lot of the excursions into analyzing popular culture are not particularly insightful, and interfere with the strength of the book, telling the story of pirates.<br />Overall, a fun and interesting read on a criminal class that is well recognized, if not well known.	2004-05-31
US	46315868	R141SGKHULBUH7	0807847909	823519390	Mama Dip's Kitchen	Books	4	76	80	N	N	A Good Base for Southern Soul Cooking	This book starts out with a delightful autobiographical story of Mildred Council and her life of cooking for her large family, and later opening a restaurant.  She talks about using local, seasonal ingredients.  Unlike most foodies, this knowledge was necessary for survival of her poor sharecropper family.  I found this short story worth the price of the book alone.<br />A transplanted Midwesterner in California, I bough this book to expand my cooking skills to include southern cooking / soul food.  The recipes are all pretty simple, suspiciously simple suggesting a few trade secrets have been left out.  Ms. Council admits as much, encouraging the reader to experiment and play around with her recipes.  That's nice, and I respect Mama Dip's need to hold family/trade secrets, but I would have preferred more insight into how to experiment, to guide the reader.  (A good example is Paul Kirk's Championship BBQ Sauces, where the secrets are not revealed, but plenty of insight is given for the reader to develop their own secret sauce.)  Thankfully, there are cooking tips here and there, often given out in a folksy manner.  Certainly one of the best things about this book is that with so many simple recipes, everyone will benefit from it.<br />Some of the recipes were surprisingly good in their simplicity.  The Creole Shrimp, Fried Okra, and Fried Catfish turned out great.  (Per Mama Dip's encouragement, I added a couple of my own ingredients to the mix.)  The Baked Beans had a muddy taste, without much character to it.  A couple others turned out a little bland.  I have some philosophical differences with Mama Dip's Pecan Pie recipe.  For the record, I think it needs brown sugar and perhaps some other ingredients for a richer, deeper flavor.  Using light Karo syrup, butter, sugar, eggs, and pecans, and nothing else, I think Mama Dip's pecan pie tastes too light.  (Of course, nobody is asking me to make my Pecan Pie on the Today Show as Ms Dip has, but that's what I think.)<br />The fact that this book has resonated so well with Southern reviewers certainly means a lot, but I can't give a book five stars that seems to give out a number of incomplete recipes, and gives the reader little insight on how to round them out.  And not everything turned out great.  But don't get me wrong, I loved reading this book, and it's been a good tool to expand my cooking skills to include Southern Cooking/Soul Food.	2004-05-16
US	46315868	RJ5VRXUG5O6U2	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A great story	Every so often, you read a book that provides insights on a number of subjects while telling a great story.  This is one of those books.<br />It's a story of a 16-year-old boy, nicknamed Pi, in India who works at his father's zoo in India.  In a restless search of meaning and understanding which so many of us go through at that age, he becomes a Christian, Muslim, and Hindu nearly simultaneously.  The zoo moves to Canada and all the animals and his family are take a cargo ship to their new destination.  When the ship sinks in the middle of the Pacific, Pi's family is lost and he's adrift in a lifeboat with a wounded zebra, orangutan, hyena, and a tiger named Richard Parker.  In a few days, it's just Pi and Richard Parker drifting aimlessly in the Pacific.  <br />The story touches on spirituality, animal husbandry, survival instincts, religion, tiger training, and the logistics of staying alive in a lifeboat.  It is also very compelling story of a young man struggling to co-exist with a dangerous animal in a confined space, and the unspoken relationship that develops.  <br />I think you will find this one of the most unique, memorable stories you've ever read.	2004-04-23
US	46315868	R3LA2TH17G7MJI	0028631528	994081622	Fish: The Complete Guide to Buying and Cooking	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good reference book for fish and seafood	I was trying to expand my cooking skills and replacing beef, chicken, and pork in my diet with fish and seafood when I picked this book up.  It really helped on both counts.  Bittman provides a great deal of insights and helpful information into buying fish and seafood, and made the seafood counter at the store a lot less intimidating.  The recipes are not intended to create ohhs and ahhs.  They are simple, yet flavorful dishes that can be whipped up in 30 minutes, in most cases.  These are the kind of recipes where I can pick something up on the way home from work, and put together something tasty for the family in short order.<br />Because most of the recipes are fairly simple, I would encourage readers to use the book as a base to expand ones cooking horizons with respect to fish.  The recipes I tried were good, but needed a little extra to round out the flavor or give them some oomph.  Unfortunately, tilapia is largely ignored by Bittman, and it would have been nice to get some recipes for this fish, which is readily available in California.  Still, this book is a great addition to my cooking library.	2004-04-01
US	46315868	R1ICF9ILBE3FYJ	0465014909	962096979	The Culture of Fear: Why Americans Are Afraid of the Wrong Things	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good critique of mainstream media	In The Culture of Fear, Glassner largely takes the media to task for reporting on the sensational and shocking, but irrelevant, rather than the real mundane issues.  Media reports of airplane crashes, random child abductions, and road rage incidents grab our attention and cause us distress, but Glassner argues the real risks we face are often boring, routine issues that don't grab our attention.  In addition, we tend to direct our national concerns, and resources, towards perceived threats that rarely occur, while letting our guard down to what should really concern us.  This can lead to the real problems of society to needlessly persist.<br />The book is exhaustively researched, using numerous citations from mainstream media and tremendous number of academic studies.  Glassner is clearly knowledgeable with the issues of drug use, crime, airplane safety and other issues he discusses.  His opinions and analysis are based on his training as a sociologist and the University of Southern California, and I appreciate the academic treatment of issues often handled with those with a clear political, social, or economic agenda.  Glassner certainly favors gun control, but he's more concerned with the media creating a healthy National debate on the issue, rather than pushing his personal agenda.<br />Glassner more reports on the phenomena and gives few reasons for it, beyond the obvious.  Everyone pretty much understands editors put shocking, yet rare incidents on the front page to sell newspapers.  Near the end of the book, Glassner recalls a conversation with a reporter that newspaper editors are personally concerned with air safety, so articles on air safety tend to dominate the news.  While this is anecdotal, more details on the decision making process within the media would be very welcome. Little is said why the public accepts the media distortions claimed to exist.<br />This aside, a good analysis on the media distorts many of our perceptions and understandings.	2004-03-28
US	46315868	R2NUQYNCPLMOL0	1578518520	621368309	The Innovator's Solution: Creating and Sustaining Successful Growth	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A critical tool to understand and succeed with innovation	I rate business books on how well they help me understand the business and industry I work in, and at that score, I found The Innovator's Solution to be an extremely valuable book.  It builds upon Clayton Christensen's previous book, The Innovator's Dilemma, which showed the paradox that well managed companies that listen to customers, and target the most attractive markets are often blind sided by disruptive change.  <br />While The Innovator's Dilemma described the phenomena, The Innovator's Solution is the business playbook to capitalize on it.  The authors categorize business innovations into two types:  Sustaining innovations target demanding, high-end customers with better performance than previously available, and disruptive innovations that introduce a product or service to new or less demanding customers, usually by providing a new level of convenience, or similar performance at a lower price.<br />Christensen and Raynor argue that both innovations are important to companies, although disruptive innovations are the ones that have the greater potential for growth.  Unfortunately, disruptive innovations are difficult to identify, and as the authors demonstrate, often are not properly confronted and dealt with by managers.  This book shows how businesses can identify the nature of innovations, and how best to allocate resources and plan strategically depending on whether an innovation is sustaining or disruptive.<br />The authors draw on a large body of case histories and business theory to present a compelling case.  It differs from most business books by establishing a model, and then testing the predictions and limits of the model.  For that reason alone, it is more valuable than the typical management book, which simply documents what was successful elsewhere, without a real analysis as to the reasons and limitations of this success.<br />I work in sales and marketing for a niche optical test and measurement company and this book allowed me to identify thesustaining and disruptive innovations occurring in this industry.  The Innovator's Solution will help me to make my company more successful, and I expect it will have the same effect for you.	2004-02-09
US	46315868	RBLAPCJ56Z465	0446343455	293791358	Tourist Season	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Highly Entertaining	I won't reveal much of the plot here, as there are some twists and turns, some more predictable than others. The story is about a group of terrorists who try to make Florida unappealing to tourists and retirees so they leave in droves.  And they attempt to achieve this goal by having a few dead bodies turn up.<br />I found this to be a very entertaining book, with interesting characters, and a plot that moves briskly along through a number of twists and turns.  The leader of the terrorist group is more interesting than the hero.  I found his heart in the right place, even though his methods had a lot to be desired.  He is smart and cunning, yet unbalanced enough to keep you constantly cringing that something really bad is about to happen.  <br />The villain steals the show, but the other characters are interesting enough to flesh out the story.  This was my first book by Hiaasen, who was highly recommended by friends, and it certainly will not be my last.	2004-02-08
US	46315868	R3VWL4K9BBGYQM	0671785877	989874157	California Dreaming : A Smooth-Running, Low Mileage, Best-Priced American Adventure	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fun, Addictive Story About California Through Scottish Eyes	It's a tale of the author's travels from Scotland to the Silicon Valley.  Originally, Donegan came to the Bay Area was to work at a friend's business, but after finding that opportunity to be less than desirable, he supported himself and his girlfriend in one of the most American of occupations, a used car salesman.  What really makes the story unique is that this story of chasing the American dream is retold through the perspective of a Scot, and a pretty clever and witty one at that.<br />I actually have more in common with the author than most, as I too came to the Silicon Valley to start a sales career about a month after Donegan came.  I came from the Midwestern United States, which isn't a whole lot like California either, so I could relate.  <br />While I had a special pleasure of knowing the euphoric Silicon Valley circa 2000 and the various places Donegan refers too, everyone is going to have blast reading this book.  The author begins to wrestle with his conscience, as he slowly becomes the sleazy salesman he once despised.  The fact that he becomes more successful as he gets sleazier becomes troubling.  But this is likely to be the most fun you've ever had watching a man struggle with an ethical dilemma.	2004-01-20
US	46315868	R5MPP84C0VM4S	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Richly detailed novel...far more than a love story	While there's been a lot of excitement about this book generated by the recent movie release, this was a highly critically acclaimed by book from Frazier, his first book, when published in 1997.  For those of you who missed all the movie promotion, it's a story set in the American Civil War about a Confederate soldier, Inman, who after being wounded in battle, literally gets up and walks away from the Army hospital and goes back to Cold Mountain.  Cold Mountain is one of the tallest mountains in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Western North Carolina, a fairly remote area in the south.  His destination is Ada, a woman he had a brief courtship with prior to the war.  After Inman went off to fight, Ada's preacher father died, and Ada is left to take care of the farm.  Ada came to Cold Mountain from Charleston, where she was a socialite of some note, and is ill equipped to run the farm, which has fallen into complete neglect.  A neighbor sends a young woman named Ruby to help run Ada's farm.  Ruby was almost completely neglected from birth by her father whom she lived with, and so has developed exceptional survival skills that Ada completely lacks.  The book alternates between Inman's slow, treacherous journey home, and Ada and Ruby working together to revive the farm.<br />While the love story between Inman and Ada is central to the book, those expecting a passionate love story suggested in the movie promotion are going to be dissappointed.  (I haven't seen the movie.)  Instead, Frazier writes a richly detailed story of three people dealing with major hardships, mostly brought about by the Civil War.<br />The detail Frazier brings to story is exceptional.  We appreciate all the skills and knowledge required just to survive off the land in that time and place.  The various characters and pitfalls Inman encounters on his way home are memorable, and the reader understands the enormity of his task.  The story is a lot about relationships, and is more than just a love story between Inman and Ada.  We see Ada and Ruby, people with completely different pasts, learn and appreciate each other as they live and work together and also see Ruby partially reconcile with her negligent father.   <br />Previous reviewers in this forum have criticized the ending, but I thought it fit perfectly with the rest of the book.<br />The high level of detail Frazier brings to the book almost brings the story to a halt at some places, and for that reason, it was not always an easy read.  But it is a rich chronicle of three people in a small corner of the United States in an extraordinary time.	2004-01-15
US	46315868	R1U71HU5FPFLYM	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Smart, funny critique of right wing media	This is a well-researched humorous, yet fairly direct and scathing rebuttal to the right wing media.  Franken convincingly shows what many liberals suspected all along:  The \\"liberal\\" media has many strong conservative factions, passing themselves off as either moderate or impartial.  Franken never hesitates to expose distortions, information taken out of context, and poor research, which Franken more bluntly characterizes as lies.<br />Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilly, Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, and Fox News are targets for this expose', and Franken humorously, yet carefully documents why he claims they lie.  Alan Colmes, the left-wing foil to Sean Hannity is even skewered for being too meek and timid.  The book is laugh out loud funny in many places, but the material is complex enough to be mind expanding at the same time.<br />It also makes a convincing case that the Clinton administration was far more effective and understanding in dealing with terrorists, while the Busch administration was dismantling the United States defenses against terrorism, until September 11th forced the Busch administration to backtrack.  This was a surprising revelation to me, adding additional depth to Franken's critique of the right in general<br />It loses a star for being about 100 pages too long.  You should not feel bad about skipping a few of the chapters I didn't find to be funny or added little to the book.<br />This is one of those books where one's opinion of it says more about the person giving the opinion than the book itself.  So it should come as no surprise that I'm an unapologetic liberal.  Liberals will love this book.   Conservatives will probably hate it, but it should make them feel uncomfortable.	2003-12-20
US	46315868	R2UNV6ULCYBGRO	1585743283	269948014	Running with The Buffaloes: A Season Inside with Mark Wetmore, Adam Goucher, and the University of Colorado Men's Cross-Country Team	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic running book....insights on several levels	This is perhaps the best running book I've ever read.  It is certainly on a par with Sir Roger Bannister's classic \\"The Four Minute Mile\\".  It chronicles the 1998 Colorado Buffalo Cross-Country Team from early in training camp to the National Championships.  This team included, Adam Goucher, one of the favorites for the individual championship.  Halfway through the season, an unforeseeable tragedy strikes the team, and they must pull together to keep their goals alive.  Mark Wetmore, a highly regarded coach, uses unique methods to train his team both physically and emotionally. <br />This book succeeds on so many levels.  We see the different relationships between team members, and how they contribute to the overall goal.  We understand what it takes for a top athlete like Adam Goucher to reach one of the highest peaks in his sport.  We are taken inside the mind of Mark Wetmore to understand the basis of his training plans and how to deal with the emotional ups and downs of his athletes, not to mention the tragedy that threatens the team's season.  Rarely, if ever, does a running book take on so many topics successfully and provide so many great insights.<br />This book could have easily degenerated into a \\"bus schedule\\" of race results, training times, and workouts, but Lear had full access to the entire team, and certainly the reader becomes an insider as well.  Unlike other \\"writers turned runners\\", Lear is a good writer.  My only small criticism is that more biographical backgrounds on the athlete would help.  We have short histories on Adam Goucher and Oscar Ponce, which are quite interesting, but certainly other athletes had interesting lives that we would like to hear about.<br />But this is a small quibble.  Anyone who ran on a cross-country team is going to love this book.  And non-runners are going to develop a great appreciation for what they may perceive as a strange tribe.	2003-12-08
US	46315868	R16XGK1E1CIUY8	0609609971	983331172	Tyler Florence's Real Kitchen:  An Indispensable Guide for Anybody Who Likes to Cook	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Greatly improved my cooking	I've taken up cooking as a hobby for about 1  years now, and judge a cookbook on how well it improves my overall cooking ability.  Based on that score, this is easily one of the best cookbooks I have in my small cooking library of about 15 books.   This book even improved my preparation of seemingly mundane items such a scrambled eggs and green beans.<br />I like the fact that Florence presents a number of traditional recipes that are flavorful, without hitting you over the head with a bunch of spices, and reasonably sophisticated, without requiring long hours in the kitchen.  That can be a fine line, and this book walks it well.  And like his FoodNetwork show, Food 911, he presents techniques with the recipes, which can make quite a difference.  Fans of his Food 911 show will recognize some of the recipes.<br />Specifically, the scone recipe produced some of the best scones I've ever had, and I had no prior experience with baking scones.  I didn't follow Tyler's advice very carefully on the Stir Fried Beef and Green Beans dish, a screwed up the steps to fry tangerines and beef.  It still tasted pretty good!    The New York Cheesecake was addictive, and the simple green bean side dish with walnuts, shallots, and lemon juice was very easy to make, yet had an excellent and unique flavor.  Other main courses in this book turned out excellent and are going to be served in my house for years to come.  I'm eager to try many of the others I haven't gotten to yet.<br />I would caution that the one downside to the book is that a few times, I found the preparation time for a step in the recipe would take a significantly different time than what the recipe called for.  For example, Tyler suggested wilting the spinach for the pan-fried tofu for thirty seconds.  In practice, this took 2-3 minutes.  I had a similar experience with another reviewer with the baked salmon.  (I just left it in the oven longer.)  The picture in the book with the scones recipe caused me a double take, before I realized they probably used a stock photo, instead of one of the actual recipe.  For these reasons, I recommend any cook using the recipes here to be careful, because it does throw a few small curves at you.  For complete beginners, I would not recommend it for this reason.<br />Forgive the clich, but if I could only have one cookbook, this would be it.  It really improved my performance in the kitchen and presents a great range of recipes.	2003-12-02
US	46315868	R34NM7P0PRI3T6	0875964575	305162897	Pre: The Story of America's Greatest Running Legend, Steve Prefontaine	Books	2	5	6	N	N	The Athlete is Compelling, The Writing Isn't	The fact that so many people love this book, and yet the writing is so ordinary must mean something.  Prefontaine was such a compelling, complex, and inspirational figure, that even the weakest effort to chronicle his life would be loved.  It isn't going to make me very popular here when I say this is a pretty weak effort.<br />The biography is mostly a series of facts about races, competitors, and results from high school to his last race.  His origins in Coos Bay, OR, or anything in his life outside of running are barely touched upon.  In the hands of a better writer, we would more about his life before his running career, which would flesh out the steady drumbeat of race results.  A few sentences throughout the text are poorly written.<br />Prefontaine was a very complex character, but here, all we learn that he was a mentally tough runner who won a bunch of races, and little else.  There are people who knew Prefontaine at the height of his running career, who claim that he was hardly a modest individual and could be unpleasent. Alcohol problems have been rumored enough that they can't be ignored.  It is possible alcohol contributed to his death.  How did this typical brash, cocky, talented kid rise to become the legendary, charismatic runner we know today, separating himself from a number brash, cocky, talented American distance runners of his era? Prefontaine's life raised all sorts of interesting questions, but Jordan's too busy sifting through the press clippings to consider any of them.<br />It would complicate the \\"mentally tough, inspiring runner dies tragically at his peak\\" story, but should result in a far more unique biography.   Jordan either purposely ignores the additional details, or simply wasn't aware of them.  Either way, Jordan has no excuse for such a bland and simpleminded portrayal.<br />Runners will find this book inspiring because of who Prefontaine was, but non-runners will wonder what all the fuss is about.  And those who know about Pre outside of this book will be dissappointed at how poorly Jordan describes an intensely compelling and complex person.	2003-11-24
US	46315868	R393Z4KLRUTOEY	0060084499	566814798	The Thrill of the Grill: Techniques, Recipes, & Down-Home Barbecue	Books	3	16	19	N	N	A Mixed Bag	Afraid I'm in the minority here.  While I use this book and am glad to have it, I've had mixed results from the recipes.  In some cases, it seems the flavor combinations were chosen more for experimental reasons or to make a culinary statement, rather than because they taste good.  Taste is always a matter of opinion, but I found that many of the recipes here are simply not for everyone.  And it should be noted that a lot of the recipes have little to do with grilling or barbeque, as the book is a bit unfocused.<br />On the plus side, the text is more enjoyable to read than most cook books, with all sorts of interesting insights and recollections on most recipes.  The southern, folksy demeanor of Schlesinger really makes this fun to read.  <br />But cookbooks are usually bought for the recipes, and there are problems.  The West Indies chicken calls for way too much rub, and I simply found it to be \\"an acquired taste\\".  I simply didn't have the courage to try the Jerk Seasoning, which was basically a Scotch Bonnet chile paste with a whisper of other ingredients.  Surprisingly, neither cloves nor allspice was one of them.  I suppose one shouldn't criticize before trying it, but it's hard to imagine anyone other than the most bound determined fire-eater choking that one down.  Does anyone really have time to simmer the tomatoes for 4 hours for the All-American Barbeque sauce, when so many other great sauces can be made in far less time and with less effort?  Personally, I found some of the fruit and spice combinations to simply not work.<br />This is not to say that good recipes cannot be found.  Some of the simple ones work well, such as the grilled bananas or the Greek-inspired lamb marinade.  The Tidewater Coleslaw has become a fixture whenever I host a cook-out, but I do jazz it up with a tablespoon of yellow mustard.   It certainly rounds out my cooking library and I expect to find some more good recipes here. But for my taste, there are too many clunker recipes for me to provide a ringing endorsement.	2003-11-11
US	46315868	RG79OL4O74CTC	0872236250	830181093	Marty Liquori's Guide for the elite runner	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Motivational Tool	Marty Liquori was one of the best American runners of the 70's, perhaps the golden age of distance running in the United States.  This book represents an attitude from that time, which was less focused on \\"rest days\\" and biochemical mumbo jumbo, and more on hard training and leaving it all on the track.  <br />Thus, as a training guide, it certainly comes across as dated, without the latest techniques, which is not necessarily a bad thing.  There isn't much here that can't be found elsewhere,either by Liquori's contemporaries, or by more recent authors.  <br />But evaluating this as a training guide is missing the point.  It is chock full of motivating statements and war stories that make you want to lace on your track spikes and do a hard set of intervals.  Far beyond a set of workouts and techniques, Liquori shows what it takes more in attitude and approach to the sport.  I especially recommend this for the budding distance runner, who will find it more for valuable for the insights and motivation required to become a great runner, than the training advice.	2003-11-06
US	46315868	R35BOJPIY36YQ5	0465016146	406165084	The Mystery Of Capital Why Capitalism Succeeds In The West And Fails Everywhere Else	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An Unsexy, Yet Compelling Solution	So often we hear the solution to poverty and inequality in the developing world can be solved by fancy trade agreements, or glitzy technical solutions such as providing high speed internet connections.  Then Hernando De Soto comes along with the most unsexy solution imaginable: reform the system of property rights.<br />You (or at least I) would not expect a argument on local codes and regulations on property rights with respect to economic development to be easy reading, and I wouldn't recommend taking this to the beach.  But it is surprisingly easy to read and De Soto provides a delicate and readable touch.  De Soto gains a lot of credibility because he clearly has gotten his hands dirty in the very countries and issues he writes about.<br />To summarize his findings, in the developing world, property and business ownership is difficult for the middle and lower classes to achieve, and they live outside the &quot;bell jar&quot; of the privileged in the developing world, who do not face these difficulties.  Failure to achieve legal property rights and ownership, these classes are greatly restricted in acquiring capital to improve their properties or grow their business.  <br />This is not to say the poor and middle class are lawless in these countries.  On the contrary, De Soto demonstrates that informal and customary systems of property rights exist outside the legal framework of the country.  In fact, such conditions existed in the United States and Europe, and over time, laws in these countries were adapted to reflect and integrate these extralegal agreements.  De Soto argues that this must also take place in the developing world for capitalism to truly thrive.<br />So it is not oppressive &quot;First World&quot; countries exploiting the &quot;Third World&quot;, nor the lack of free market principles, that is holding the developing world back.  De Soto is arguing for a strong central government to serve the will of all the people, if these countries are to be successful.<br />This unique, but very compelling argument by a top notch economist and good writer is highly recommended and really essential reading for anyone interested in economic development.	2003-11-04
US	46315868	REKU47LPXIA38	0060012781	86601151	A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Better than Kitchen Confidential	I enjoyed this much better than Kitchen Confidential, because this book is about more the food, and less about Bourdain.  And when the author writes about himself, he really touches more upon the human experience that everyone can relate to rather than the &quot;kitchen locker room&quot; stories that started getting tiresome in Kitchen Confidential.  As the author searches for &quot;the perfect meal&quot; and goes to great lengths to find it, we begin to understand how food relates to people live not only in the places he travels to, but all over the world.  A major sub-plot is Bourdain's self-parady as a culinary celebrity as the Food Network films him on his travels which became the Cook's Tour series still shown on the Food Network.<br />The book starts with Tony and his brother returning to France, and the memories they had growing up, many involving food.  Rarely are the words &quot;touching&quot; and &quot;Tony Bourdain&quot; used in the same sentence, but the passage where Tony Bourdain talks about his deceased father is indeed touching.<br />From here, we learn of Bourdain's love of Vietnam, harrowing adventures in Cambodia, a trip to St. Petersberg, Russia through a haze of vodka, eating deadly fish in Japan, and other journeys.  There seems to be no place on earth the author won't go, and nothing too bizarre to ingest at least once.<br />The chapter on San Francisco was a riot, with a long rant against vegetarians that was entertaining because of its great energy and because it held a few nuggets of truth beneath the bluster.  Anyone who watches the Cook's Tour episodes on the Food Network will appreciate the &quot;behind the scenes&quot; commentary, which usually involve Bourdain confessing he was drunk or stoned when various segments were shot.  <br />Of course, the quest for the perfect meal is pointless, as Bourdain concedes at the end of the book.  We also find out that trying exotic dishes isn't necessarily what it's cracked to be.  Cobra bile tastesexactly as appetizing as it sounds.  <br />Books like this are about the quest and the truths found along the way, not the final destination itself.  This is a great ride.	2003-10-10
US	46315868	RH92XUWCR1W12	0060958316	956707371	Hawk: Occupation: Skateboarder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thumbs up from a non-skateboarder	I've never ridden a skateboard, and would probably fall on my face if I tried.  I'm not exactly sure why I bought this book in the first place, but I'm glad I did.<br />Tony Hawk is certainly an inspiring individual, and the fact he trudged through the world of skateboarding through times of high and low popularity before retiring from competition at the top of his game.  As an amateur athlete (running), I could identify from the joy of his craft, even while toiling in obscurity and near poverty.  The special bond between Tony Hawk and his father fleshes out the story.  Most of the war stories are fun to read.<br />The writing isn't great, but good enough.  Those not familiar with the skateboard lingo are going to find parts of the story written in a seemingly different language at times.  Those flaws aside, a reasonably well told story about a talented human, struggling to reach the top of his craft which anyone can appreciate.	2003-10-07
US	46315868	RZXM6HTVIN4MI	1582341036	489874479	Gone Bamboo	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Colorful characters make it good mob story	Bordain is always appealing to carnal delights in one way or another.  This is not some mind expanding book, so those seeking great truths or want noble characters ought to look elsewhere.  While I found the plot of the story to be nothing very special, the unique characters are what make the story memorable.<br />The main characters, Henry and Frances, a couple that live in St. Martin, spend most of the time getting drunk, smoking dope, passing out, hanging around the beach, and fornicating in unusual places.  When Henry isn't engaging in these activities with Frances, he's a hit man.  Hardly the usual sympathetic characters one usually roots for, but in the world created in this book, that's exactly what I found myself doing.<br />I think Bordain uses a skillful touch.  Any book with heavy set, cross-dressing mob boss could easily drown in the absurdity of such a character, but it doesn't here.  The envelope is pushed, but the characters never seem to go over the top.  Other characters are more convential, but I still found them unique.  And we understand the motivations of each character without going into deep, heavy handed explanations into human experience.<br />This isn't compelling, page turning stuff, but has a breezy pace like a pleasant day at the beach.  Before I knew it, I'd knocked off 80-100 pages at a sitting.<br />For those not particularly into mob stories, smart-aleck story telling, or characters with loose morals, try something else.  For the rest of us, time well spent.	2003-10-06
US	46315868	R33M29JJU04SOU	0393051242	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Thought provoking book, more an IMF critism	While this book is certainly about globalization, it is more a critique of the IMF, and to a lesser extent, the US Treasury department.  The World Bank, where the author was employed as Chief Economist, is treated rather neutral here.<br />What I appreciated was analysis of complex issues by a well meaning and Nobel Prize winning economist.  Too often, we hear from strident anti-globalists on the far left, or free-market ideologues on the right who generate plenty of heat, but seldom much light on the issues.  Stiglitz sees globalism as an unstoppable economic force that can act toward the benefit of everyone with the best policies in place.  The policies of the IMF are sharply criticized here and Stiglitz argues made various economic problems worse.<br />The East Asia financial crisis, the creating of free markets in Russia, recent events in Argentina, and other international economic events are covered here.  Stiglitz deconstructs the IMF policies in each case, and proposes what he feels is a better way to proceed.  Too generalize the arguments put forth; the IMF is too focused on the concerns of the investment community and economic indicators, such as inflation, that do not necessarily indicate national prosperity.  Stiglitz argues for a better understanding of the local economies in policy decisions, and more concerns about reducing poverty and general welfare.<br />I have to agree with some of the other reviewers that writing is not the author's strong suit.  However, the author's commitment, knowledge, experience, and generally clear explanations over come this.  Such reasonable and knowledgeable commentary is too rare in this debate, which makes this contribution very welcome.	2003-09-19
US	46315868	R2MHY8EBMAHEO3	0070633428	384666872	The Digital Economy: Promise and Peril In The Age of Networked Intelligence	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Almost unreadable...a quaint artifact from an earlier time	There were many annoying things about this book.  Perhaps most annoying is that he never really talks about economies, and just blathers about gee-whiz technology in a rapid fire manner.  He doesn't really penetrate much into the technology, nor bothers to say how it is really going to affect economies.  The book is full of pre-9/11, pre-internet bubble euphoria, and never spends any time fully exploring its interesting premise. <br />Certain the internet and communication technologies will effect the economy, and anyone trying to get any real insight here, beyond that it will make the world a better place and lots of people are going to make more money (stated over and over again), will be greatly let down.<br />The effects of technology on economies is better described elsewhere, such as &quot;The Innovator's Dilemma&quot; and other books that understand both economics and the relevant technology, something a &quot;visionary&quot; such as Tapscott has no time for.<br />Beyond providing insight into internet/technology mania of the mid to late 90's, I see no reason to invest time to read this book.	2003-09-15
US	46315868	R25WJWENTXVNWG	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Kitchen Locker Room Stories	Tony Bourdain is certainly entertaining.  I happen to enjoy smart-... New Yorker commentary and those who do will like this book too.  It basically traces his career as a chef, sprinkling in his insights and warnings on the restaurant industry.  Some of its fascinating, most of its interesting, and some of it comes across as a bit self serving.<br />It is hard to believe that food was ever served in some of these kitchens with all the alleged fighting, drinking, drug use, and fornication.  At times, this comes across as one big locker room story, that one believes at age 12, but by age 16, one immediately knows is embellished, if not totally made up.  The book runs out of steam towards the end, and a few chapters come across as filler.<br />Still, it is entertaining enough to recommend.  However, if you have to read one Bourdain book on food, read \\"A Cook's Tour\\".  It's more about the food, and less about Bourdain.	2003-09-12
US	46315868	R2OKQVV4LS5NCR	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Will leave you as energized as the characters	A fast moving book and perhaps the most amazing thing is that the main characters stay wide awake for nearly 48 hours after being woken up in the middle of the night and zipping all over Paris and London. If you are not familiar with the history of the Grail Legend, (which I wasn't) I think you will find this one of the most fascinating parts of the story. The amount of research required to write this must have been considerable.<br />A previous and certainly perceptive reviewer could see the plot twists a few pages in advance, and I too sensed something was coming in a couple places, but most twists and turns were genuine surprises. Fans of this prose who like more human insight will feel a little let down, as the characters have some depth, but are more there to advance the plot than anything else.<br />I've read better popular non-fiction, but only rarely.	2003-09-11
US	46315868	R1OCRJJQ33YFNS	0767903277	863762746	The Informant: A True Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Would be great fiction...and it's true!	The story starts out as a somewhat interesting investigation of Archer Daniels Midland price fixing, and then delves into the fascinating web of deceipt, back stabbing, and a bizarre plot to become CEO of ADM by Mark Whitacre, a wunderkind ADM executive, and FBI informant in the price fixing investigation.<br />Eichenwald give little hints along the way that there's more than meets the eye, and by the end of the book, reveals the extent of the plot at ADM and by Whitacre that has to be read to be believed.  The fairly arcane and complicated scheming throughout the book comes across fairly transparent, where a lesser writer would tend to make it fairly dense reading.	2003-09-11
US	46315868	R3E8LA3F9RJ9D6	0380717638	172404459	Muscle: Confessions of an Unlikely Bodybuilder	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mostly a fun romp through the world of bodybuilding	This is a pretty entertaining read about a skinny, bookish, 20-something who transforms himself into a body builder.  This autobiographical story takes place over the course of about a year as Fussell describes the transformation he makes and journeys from New York to Southern California in his quest to become a great body builder. The insights and largely self-depreciating comments on this transmation make it unique. Along the way, we meet all sorts of colorful characters, who will go to tremendous lengths for the slightest improvement in their physiques.  Fussell realizes he is becoming one of them, and it is this final realization that leads to the book's conclusion.<br />Fussell says a lot about the bodybuilding industry and about weight lifting, but it really its a book about people chaisng bodybuilding dream, and why they do it.<br />What prevents me from giving it 5 stars is that Fussell seems to omit certain details and one suspects at times he is either embellishing the details, or isn't totally forthcoming with what actually happens.  A romance with a female body builder starts, somewhat awkwardly, and then is quickly forgotten.  If it really was so insignificant, you wonder why it was brought up in the first place.<br />But there is certainly enough insight into what drives people to develop their bodies beyond all reason and enough entertainment value in the storytelling to make it a good read.	2003-09-08
US	46315868	R1EO0BCTWYXJYI	0684830442	810767823	Management of the Absurd	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Insights into business paradoxes	I'm not a manager, and have never been a manager, but this book has been critical to my development as a worker bee.  <br />I bought it going through a lot of turmoil in the workplace and it really gave me insights to see how the dynamics between people operate.  The book shows the logic of such paradox's such as &quot;The opposite of a profound truth is also true&quot; and &quot;Big changes are easier to make the small ones&quot;.<br />Each paradox is described in bite sized chapters of 2-5 pages long.  I often pull this out of my bookcase, read two of three random chapters to relax from various stresses.<br />The best thing about this book is that it is not prescriptive.  In fact, it tends to show the fallacy of common business prescriptions.  By sharing his insights, Farson allows the reader to better understand various business, and for the matter, personal dynamics and respond constructively to them.	2003-09-06
US	46315868	R2KH3HKYCMW3V4	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nothing less than a life changing book	I think the power of a book like this is measured on how it affects its readers.  On that score, Fast Food Nation is one of the most powerful books on its genre in our times.  I personally know two people who read this book and became vegatarians.  Granted, they didn't eat a lot of meat to begin with, but this pushed them over to the veggie side.<br />Myself, I was good for 3-4 burgers a month.  In the six months since I read this, I've had maybe two.<br />I can't imagine anyone reading this and not being affected in some way.<br />This type of literature can often degenerate into empty polemic, but that's not the case here.  Enough data and undesputable facts are provided, yet plenty of the human side of the issues are there as well.  The critique of the fast food industry is so broad that one simply doesn't need to be an animal rights activist (I'm not) or a food purist (I'm not that either) or a health fanatic (not me either) to be affected.  Schlosser presents his case on economic, social, and urban landscape grounds as well.  (That's basically where he got me.)  And the chapter on the slaughter house is going to cause the hard core carnivore to cringe.<br />Read it, and tell a friend to read it too.	2003-09-03
US	46315868	R1Q295WNI0L8Z2	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting read, with historical context	I tried reading this book tens years ago, and found the first chapter &quot;boring&quot; and put it down.  Now, trying again to read what many claim is a classic of literature, I'm glad I gave it a second try.<br />Describing the book is a little like describing a Seinfeld episode. A bunch of guys drive around, drink a lot, chase women, listen to jazz, and basically ignore what most people do in life to learn what life is all about.  But the restlessness of Dean Moriarity to find himself, and his long lost father, and the writer protagonist Sal to discover what exactly he sees in Dean is what drew me in.  You can't help but feel the joy of discovery the characters go through. Interestingly enought, there are are enough hints from Kerouac to suggest that just maybe, all the &quot;revelations&quot; aren't as cracked up as they seem to be.<br />It is interesting to view this is a historical context.  In the 50's, the free wheeling life styles would have been shocking. In the 60's no doubt people would read this and say &quot;Right on, man!&quot;.  Today, Dean Moriarity comes across as genuine, if misguided.  We're not so outraged at what he does, so much as the irresponsibility of it, which many of the book's characters seem to get by the end.  Even Sal realizes this by the end of the book.  <br />Many people call this a great book about finding yourself, but I don't think it is that.  It is more about two characters trying to find truths on the open road, who are not entirely successful.  In addition to that, the book genuinely changed more than one generation.  For that reason alone, I recommend reading it.	2003-09-01
US	46315868	R2X5RPTFEW4S7D	0761120149	684134465	How to Grill: The Complete Illustrated Book of Barbecue Techniques, A Barbecue Bible! Cookbook	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great source to learn techniques	I have ignored a lot of the recipies in this book, although some of them are excellent.  But the techniques are really what this book is all about.  Great starting point to go beyond the hamburgers/hot dogs/steak routine of grilling.  Those who have a lot of grilling/bbq experience are probably not going to get as much out of it.  You can simply take the technique, apply a different sauce, marinade, or seasoning to it, and still come up with something pretty good.<br />Also, while most of the recipies are excellent, some could use a little help.  I substituted ground allspice in the pork chop brine for allspice berries, and get a much more flavorfull result.  There's too much salt in some of them for my taste, but then, that's just me.  The Asian ribs are outstanding.<br />Has really jump-started my quest to be a &quot;grill master&quot;.	2003-08-29
US	46315868	RBL46XCTHXQDG	0761119795	971144526	Barbecue! Bible Sauces, Rubs, and Marinades, Bastes, Butters, and Glazes	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good starting point.....	I have used some of the sauces verbatum and have tinkered with others.  The results have been uniformly excellent.  It's a good starting point to develelop your own grilling recipies and techniques.  The strength of the book is that it gets you thinking about how to create sauces and creating your own sauces is part of what grilling/barbeque is all about.  I expect to go back to this book again and again.	2003-08-29
US	46315868	RDRVWC6T80J9M	0060517123	895611005	Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Really changed my life about  technical sales	There are some rare books that create revelations, and in my professional career, this is one of them.  Now it is obvious why I often failed to connect with &quot;Pragmatists&quot; and other customers, who didn't seem to get it like the other &quot;Visionaries&quot; and &quot;Technofiles&quot; I had little trouble selling to.<br />I was the one who didn't get it!<br />In addition, marketing and sales books can be such dull tomes, but Moore's professional experience and accesible manner makes for an interesting read.  His &quot;lingo&quot; has been picked up but many professionals, to the point where you need to read Moore just to be up to date.  But the good news is, you will be much more effective in technical sales and marketing after reading this book.	2003-08-29
US	46315868	R9O2KE63YN9IK	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Too clever for its own good	I'll start with a warning.  I'm not a big literary person, so maybe I'm just not sophisticated enough for this book.<br />It's certainly not like anything I've read before, but the message seems buried in absurd characters, weird plot developments, and constant references to pop culture.  You think it must be deep and meaningful, because it's hard to understand what the point of everything is.  But you have to wonder if the ideas could be expressed in a more straightforward, accessible way that would be more powerful than this story, which many times gets a bit muddled with its absurdities.<br />That said, I did find myself reading chapter after chapter, unable to put the book down, more out of curiosity as to what would happen next, more than anything else.<br />It's sort of like the bus ride I took from Houston to Columbus, OH.  Interesting experience to do once, but not a second time.	2003-08-29
US	46315868	R30827NE5EGW8Z	0273622846	823191184	Mobius on Emerging Markets (2nd Edition) (Financial Times Series)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Deadly dull, with little insights	I guess I'm in the minority here.  I was extremely dissapointed with this book.  The writing is plodding, and I kept waiting for some good war stories, insights, or ideas and never got them.<br />Sure, there are words on the page, so he must be saying something.  It wasn't anything particularly new, original or really useful.  Or memorable for that matter.  He does include some personal stories, but they elicit a shoulder shrugging, &quot;So what?&quot;.<br />Invest your money elsewhere.	2003-08-29
US	46315868	R2PAR39J6W0QXI	0140152741	435955476	Mao II: A Novel	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Liked it better than White Noise, but not that much	I can tell my friends I've read DeLillo, both White Noise and Mao II.  I liked this a little more than White Noise, but since I wasn't too crazy about White Noise, that isn't saying too much.<br />The characters seem more real than those in White Noise, the plot seems more believeable, and the motivations make more sense.  Maybe DeLillo will write a completely transparent book, and I'll love it!<br />I first read this ten years ago, and could barely choke it down.  Perhaps becoming more sophisticated, I read it a few months ago, and even enjoyed it at times.<br />My preference is if a writer has something to say, it shouldn't be buried in situations, metaphors, and characters that simply don't occur in real life, and seem like oh so clever gimmicks.  So obviously, DeLillo is not going to end up one of my favorite writers.	2003-08-29
