US	46396923	R13MNT5552I1YX	0745313477	600176134	The Cancer Stage of Capitalism	Books	5	15	15	N	N	How they ignore the global illness harbingers ...	John McMurtry, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada, does not hesitate to compare the capitalism with a cancerous ulcer. The greed conducts the processes of the capital accumulations -- and will not lead to sensible, ethically acceptable investments, but causes a dying of the planet like a tumor can start the fall of a human body. There are to show a lot of short-sightedness -- from the seabed up to the ozone layer, from weapons trade to waste of fuel and medicine by few ruthless nations. To ignore these matters is similar, indeed, like ignoring growing tumors and hoping with optimism, that there never will be any need of consulting a doctor. More and more money for useless investors is demanded by capital owners, unfortunately, a mentality of \\"predation\\" would not come into disrepute at all. However, this is the effort which makes McMurtry to himself with his publications: understanding the global markets and resources as an ethical task. So McMurtry interprets some famines caused by U.S. economy sanctions -- in Cuba, Somalia, Iraq or North Korea. A hoarding of resources (to be called almost lecherously) by only few privileged ones infuriates in principle the Canadian philosopher. He stands up vehemently for an ethic, which does not consider only humane justice, but also a sudden close-out sale of our planet. In an earlier age religious authorities denied that the earth revolves around the sun, nowadays management groups steered by lobbyists deny that an economic egoism is a depressing illness. Economy policy as in a egocentric, blind rage could tip over sometime and come fast to a precipice unpleasantly. Dying by the way is not painless. The global illness harbingers are homelessness, poverty, crime, terrorism, refugee misery (from Mexico to Morocco). The morphine of not to mention it -- is like ignoring hospital, if it is needed.	2005-10-12
US	46396923	R1JMY2PZ3F0K50	0140439218	10902392	The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism: and Other Writings (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	2	12	N	N	the fear of being not preferred later on ...	Max Weber (1864-1920) had noticed that Protestants appeared excessively under the numbers of people who economically were successful. The Catholicism seemed to make it easier (due to an integrated sin pardon mechanics) to enjoy life in between times. The Mediterranean countries have saved this as a differentiable lifestyle till nowadays, but particular the Nordic, by the majority Protestant countries put the human beings into a hermetic box of duty fulfillment and responsibility. The suicide installment is also higher in these areas: Unfortunately, Luther's theological revolution was not namely a liberation, no reduction of control but its millionfold multiplication: In the end everyone became the merciless inspector of himself. The reformation has increased the pressure extremely. Now mixed religious aims and working actions were bound each other with the visibility of financial success. Other religions, the Buddhism, the Islam etc., seem strikingly less in conformity with the capitalism in this regard. On the contrary: Being obstinate or disinterested seem to be transported rather. The Calvinistic capitalism on the other hand produces (besides all superficial correctness) a subtle social coldness, a fight of everybody against everybody, which promotes the assumption, that there is not enough space in the paradisiacal sky for everyone at all. Therefore the fear of being not preferred later on by the dear God starts a hitting and fighting between the human beings vehemently. Being religious in this manner has not contributed to humanness, but, instead, made some steps backward globally, regarding the great individual sovereignty, which the renaissance man already had achieved. Face of the fact, that (at the moment) a second theocracy seems to spread himself apparently in the USA -- at least in the opinion of the ones who sit at the decisive Washington coordinating points -- in the face of such developments among the conservative Christians of the USA, which surpass many a nastiness of the frowned Machiavellism or the elite oriented Darwinism, yes even the racism -- in view of such developments it seems recommended to examine the rational analyses of Max Weber again ...many a nastiness of the frowned Machiavellism or the elite oriented Darwinism, yes even the racism -- in view of such developments it seems recommended to examine the rational analyses of Max Weber again ...  <br />	2005-10-09
US	46396923	R2EVM2FN5ZH3SL	0060935936	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	2	3	48	N	N	right-wing science, I prefer Howard Zinn ...	John McWhorter, Linguistikprofessor an der Universit&auml;t von Kalifornien, Berkeley, ist ein Rechts-Konservativer, welcher in der Verkleidung des Gutmeinenden der schwarzen Bev&ouml;lkerung vorwirft, sie verschulde ihr Elend selbst, weil sie sich in Selbstmitleid (victimology), Parallel-Kultur (separatism) und Anti-Intellektualismus (anti-intellectualism) fl&uuml;chte. Anti-Intellektualismus gibt es bei Wei&szlig;en auch. Was so richtige Rednecks, Sixpacks, Landeier (Hillbillies) von sich geben, ist, obwohl unter wei&szlig;er Hautfarbe vorgetragen, auch nicht immer berauschend. Es gibt \\"geh&auml;utete\\" Schwarze wie diesen Professor McWhorter, der daraus, dass schwarze Studenten ihn mit Herr Professor, Wei&szlig;e ihn mit \\"DU\\" anreden, schlussfolgert, dass Schwarze von Bildungsferne angekr&auml;nkelt seien. Auch die alte Vererbungstheorie wagt er aus der Schublade zu kramen. Zu den \\"geh&auml;uteten\\" Schwarzen muss man wahrscheinlich auch Condoleezza Rice oder Colin Powell z&auml;hlen (der US-b&uuml;rgerrechtsbewegte Howard Zinn sortiert sie jedenfalls ungeschminkt ein als \\"Service-Personal der Reichen und M&auml;chtigen\\"). \\"Geh&auml;utete\\" Schwarze lassen sich vielleicht vorwerfen, dass Selbstmitleid, Parallel-Kultur (das frevelhafte, ungebildete H&ouml;ren nicht-klassischer Musik!) und Antiintellektualismus ihr Elend verschuldet, welches unter anderem darin sichtbar werde, dass Schwarze den Hauptprozentsatz der Insassen von Strafanstalten stellen. Andere Faktoren (Polizei mit Ku-Klux-Klan-Mentalit&auml;t) geraten nicht in McWhorters Visier. Seine statistischen Daten sind flachsinnig ausgewertet. Er sieht einen Zusammenhang zwischen niedrigem Einkommen und Schul-Misserfolg. Es gibt aber schwarze Lastwagenfahrer mit hohem Einkommen und Gattinnen von Latein-Lehrern, die nicht arbeiten (niedriges Familien-Einkommen) - trotzdem d&uuml;rfte der Schulerfolg der Kinder anders sein, als das niedrige Einkommen vermuten l&auml;sst. Man muss wohl oder &uuml;bel doch multi-faktoriell arbeiten. F&uuml;r einen Talkshow-Gast, der wei&szlig;e Vorurteile best&auml;tigen m&ouml;chte, reicht McWhorters Argumentationsstil aus, ernsthaftere Denker d&uuml;rften wohl von einem Schauder vor dieser Art Wissenschaftlichkeit erfasst werden.horters Argumentationsstil aus, ernsthaftere Denker drften wohl von einem Schauder vor dieser Art Wissenschaftlichkeit erfasst werden.  <br />	2005-10-08
US	46396923	R1PG4YQ9IKS6PG	0393301583	574429846	Civilization and Its Discontents (The Standard Edition)  (Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud)	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Freud as a philosopher ...	With his culture theoretical documents Freud had essentially share at the development of the philosophical self-determination of mankind. After the Christian conception of the world had shattered, and human beings lost their feeling of being in security, after philosophers like Kierkegaard told, that only the fight for a pure individuality (and no common religious feelings) would be a help in the future, after Immanuel Kant had recognized the one-sidedness nature of academic scientifical points of view - a Nietzsche became famous, hammering out, that the power of will and lust (like Dionysos) should be focused - since the contrary, the Apollonian world of law and order had surpressed too much of important emotional horizons. Freud delivered more details of this conflict between sex and aggression and - on the other hand - sublimation, the capability to listen to the routes of correctness: a \\"super-ego\\" (like an inner police, living in every human being) is fighting against an ego, wishing childishly to love or to fight, often in the wrong moment and at the very wrong place. While an Arthur Schopenhauer still constituted the will as driving force of the world, but assigned only a role of an onlooker to the intellect, Freud drilled in greater detail: The destruction strength of human beings, their desire to meet death, their lust of aggression is the core of all driving inner-forces (Freud's opinion). This driving energy arduously sublimes in good behaviour, but then often dumps in self aggression or in an outside aggression. It is Freud's contribution to have made us examine an anthropological basic constant: the perpetually endangering human aggression instinct. Freud is therefore completely congruent with Schopenhauer, concerning the pessimistic prevailing mood. So he does not share the naivet&eacute; and enthusiasm of the at that time current \\"life philosophy\\" or the optimism of the existentialism starting with Henri Bergson's \\"elan vital\\": It is not very astonishing: Sigmund Freud was powerlessly hemmed in between two World Wars. He suffered (emigrating to London) under the Nazi-oppression. Long before any Islamic fundamentalism ruled the daily news, he clearly analyzed how much efforts we need, to calm down the global attacks of a so-called \\"death instinct\\". Therefore his culture theoretical documents perhaps are still much more meaningfully than the gloomy approaching area of his sick individual person stories...gmund Freud was powerlessly hemmed in between two World Wars. He suffered (emigrating to London) under the Nazi-oppression. Long before any Islamic fundamentalism ruled the daily news, he clearly analyzed how much efforts we need, to calm down the global attacks of a so-called \\"death instinct\\". Therefore his culture theoretical documents perhaps are still much more meaningfully than the gloomy approaching area of his sick individual person stories...	2005-10-04
US	46396923	R36AV113X4A4NO	1931788480	288508265	Candida Höfer: Architecture Of Absence	Books	5	3	7	N	N	a calmed, laconic, maybe social phobia- attitude ...	A quiet humor wanders like a ghost through the laconic photos of Candida H&ouml;fer -- no people can be seen but via the devices of the rooms, libraries, hotels, halls, museums, canteens -- one can suspect still the existence of human beings indirectly. With a similar humor understanding the physicist Georg Christoph Lichtenberg once wrote: \\"If the posterity of the year 35.000 (or another planet's class of sensible nature) would find a lady suit completely undone and if they wanted to determine the figure of the ladies who would have been covered with that, -- what figure would come out?\\" The aesthetic experiments of the German Photographer Candida H&ouml;fer activate such associations. One of her book publications is entitled \\"Room Monuments\\" (of course without any human being). Before the beginning of her studies (learning from the renowned professors Bernd and Hilla Becher in Duesseldorf, Germany) Candida H&ouml;fer had taken photographs of Turkish fellow citizens in business, tea-rooms and parks. The people then disappeared from her photos. Was this the bad influence of her studies with the married couple Bernd and Hilla Becher, who had photographed only the industry architecture of the German Ruhr district maniacally (stubbornly ignoring all that connections between Nazi-politicians and steel-industry, around Hitler and Krupp, Goebbels and Thyssen) ? Or is there hiding a shock, Candida H&ouml;fer experienced, as the role of her father, Werner H&ouml;fer, a famous TV-talkmaster in the 1960's, was criticized by investigating journalists, checking his own role in the Nazi-era? Did this chase the daughter in a kind of social phobia? Although there is a coffee-table book of Candida H&ouml;fer with live (locked in zoo animals) she mostly prefered to make pictures of prepared, dead animal bodies in museum collections. Is such a misanthropic distance necessary to create a counterbalance against traumata, suffered by the modern mass culture? Writers like Canetti (Austria) or Saul Bellow (USA) reacted with comparable feelings -- or philosophers like Arthur Schopenhauer (Germany) or Ortega y Gasset (Spain). Perhaps there is a third evident explanation of Candida H&ouml;fer's decision how to work (besides the Becher-studies and the father trauma): the minimalist aesthetics theory of the Bauhaus tradition; quiet, empty rooms help to fulfill a meditative, calmed, laconic life-style attitude -- a task to which the painting of Piet Mondrian or Josef Albers also felt obliged -- why not photography as well?d with comparable feelings -- or philosophers like Arthur Schopenhauer (Germany) or Ortega y Gasset (Spain). Perhaps there is a third evident explanation of Candida Hfer's decision how to work (besides the Becher-studies and the father trauma): the minimalist aesthetics theory of the Bauhaus tradition; quiet, empty rooms help to fulfill a meditative, calmed, laconic life-style attitude -- a task to which the painting of Piet Mondrian or Josef Albers also felt obliged -- why not photography as well?  <br />	2005-10-03
US	46396923	RDAAM94CDGLZA	0810956101	769734755	Edouard Boubat: The Monograph	Books	5	7	7	N	N	far away from all modern disturbances ...	I discovered a book with photos of Edouard Boubat in 1973 for the first time, and I have ferreted about everywhere since then to get more insights into his opinion of photography. I did not discover only French, Belgian, Dutch web pages but also Spanish, Italian, German -- even Chinese or such from Iran. I am happy now to hold in my hand comfortably collected 300 photographs of Edouard Boubat (thanks to the work of his son Bernard), which before were accessible only sprinkled. Next to the portraits of Lella (his Muse) I found a lot of other pictures, which have influenced me up to the own lifestyle: The Breton fisherman with his cats at the simple at noon meal (1961, Saint Quai-Portrieux), the farmer's woman with the goose in her arms, which she wants to sell on the market, Belgian nuns 1954, the seagulls of the Seine-bridges, which rush surprisingly into the observer's direction like jet fighters, a modern hang-glider flying from the dunes down to the sea, that Hindu family being like from the last century at Poona, India, the female nude with the big sunflower in front of the face in a romantic spring in Sweden (1967), the proud colored fisherman in Ghana, shouldered a freshly caught tunafish (1960), the little girl with the home-made dress from autumn leaves (1947), Baby suckling mothers in Bethlehem (1957), the \\"Lost Generation\\" at a Hyde park music festival 1970, those timelessly beautiful unknown lady, ironing her laundry, 1974 in Paris, men at a billiard table, workers in Brazil or China, children, catching snowflakes with the mouth, the poodle, reading a newspaper in a Parisian caf&eacute; 1953, and that cat, commercialized often as a poster, in front of the sheet of music ... Hardly an artistic Odyssey is known to me, as productive as this one, moreover so poetically, away from all the modern disturbances, representing an interruption of feeling, showing the rites, the sadnesses, the dignified moments of life...	2005-10-03
US	46396923	R1SFWITW5T4ZAU	0465046754	692787574	The Republican War on Science	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Insolent fight against scientific conceptions of the world	The Bush administration (enslaved to on the one hand religious lobbies, on the other hand commercial interests) improves their insolent fight against a scientific conception of the world spectacularly. Darwin's evolution theory as a component of the biology lesson in schools is fought by creationism or the slogan of an \\"intelligent designer\\" (God?), obedient, at this point unruly teachers are threatened with dismissal. The scientific fight for a reduction of the global warming is represented crazily as an allegedly jealous attack on the energy consumption standard of the American population. Like the tobacco industry suffocated the warning cries against smoking, so the oil industry lets slip the warning on resource wasting. The industry interested in armed forces orders undermines pacifist efforts, embryonic stem cell research is blocked for religious reasons. The attack on the scientific critical conception of the world of renowned research institutes by the present right-wing conservative Republicans around the Pseudo evangelist George W. Bush is perhaps worse than sporadic threats by Islamistic terrorists: because a systematic attack on the human reason stabilizes himself in Washington, continuously more and more effectively. Scientific progress, won within the last 400 years, seems to dissolve into air in view of the right-wing conservative Christian fundamentalist banding together. An air though, in which Air Force bombers are still be able to fly fantastically. The author of the book, Chris Mooney, who writes for the respected science magazine SEED, has summarized in a really good way, what, at present, unfortunately in Europe increasingly is contaminating politics production processes, too...	2005-10-01
US	46396923	RSW9JS1X0OPKF	039332091X	863225801	The Erik Erikson Reader	Books	5	20	31	N	N	integrated historical, psychological and political theories	Erik Erikson (1902-1994), famous German-American psychotherapist, was born in Frankfurt, his biological father was a Dane remained unnamed, his mother, Karla Abrahamsen, was a young Jewish woman, who married three years after Erik's birth Dr. Theodor Homberger.<br /><br />During the Nazi period the family emigrated to the USA, where Erik indicated the surname \\"Erikson\\" (chosen freely) for the immigration authority. Because his parents at first hid the biological identity from young Erik, at first he had felt as Erik Abrahamsen-Homberger; the modification into the well sounding \\"Erik Erikson\\" was (of course) connected with the search for his biological (unsolved, Danish) \\"Roots\\".<br /><br />His books about \\"identity crisis\\", \\"life circles\\", about \\"Childhood and Society\\" and so on: practice an analysis of both common and personal interest. His own curriculum vitae is an example of developing an identity as well as the subjects he tried to describe (Luther, Hitler, Gandhi ...);<br /><br />Not only, that in his childhood (in Nuernberg) his Jewish identity was hidden completely (favored by a fair-haired outside) in the Nazi Germany; at first it was his aim in his student time of becoming an artist. He slept under bridges, walking through Europe. Later he always tended more towards the psychological knowledge area, could be trained to a Montessori teacher, influenced by his friend Peter Blos, then (in Vienna) he managed to get a psychoanalysis by the famous daughter of Sigmund Freud, Anna; after that (emigrated to the USA) he started with ethnological researches at the Dakota Indians: so his own identity changed gradually in the course of his life.<br /><br />The geographical changes surely also caused a personality alteration: In Vienna he became acquainted with his later wife Joan Serson, a Canadian dance teacher; avoiding the Nazis, the family went to Copenhagen (searching for roots), then to Boston. He finally took lectureships for the University of Harvard, then Yale, then Berkeley.<br /><br />In the fifties he developed disgust of the McCarthy era and let rest his teaching for several years.<br /><br />His remark \\"Identity is the intersection point between what a person wants to be and what the world allows to be\\" is more than only illustrated by the changeable outside worlds in Erikson's biography.<br /><br />It is worthwhile to look at his additional publications (after his major work \\"Identity and the Life Cycle\\"), too:<br /><br />he analyses Hitler, Gorki and the conditions of life of the Sioux Indian tribe \\"Oglala Dakota\\" ( in \\"Childhood and Society\\"). For his book \\"Gandhis truth\\" he got the Pulitzer Price.<br /><br />Focusing the interdependence of individual growth and historical change (Young Man Luther, A Study in Psychoanalysis and History) he was the important founder of multiple-method-search-procedures for integrated historical, psychological, social and political theories.<br /><br />The question of the development of identity therefore is Erikson's main topic, which is experienced at his own body<br /><br />- essentially for everyone, who likes to analyse biographies ...<br />In the fifties he developed disgust of the McCarthy era and let rest his teaching for several years.  <br />His remark \\"Identity is the intersection point between what a person wants to be and what the world allows to be\\" is more than only illustrated by the changeable outside worlds in Erikson's biography.  <br />It is worthwhile to look at his additional publications (after his major work \\"Identity and the Life Cycle\\"), too:  <br />he analyses Hitler, Gorki and the conditions of life of the Sioux Indian tribe \\"Oglala Dakota\\" ( in \\"Childhood and Society\\"). For his book \\"Gandhis truth\\" he got the Pulitzer Price.  <br />Focusing the interdependence of individual growth and historical change (Young Man Luther, A Study in Psychoanalysis and History) he was the important founder of multiple-method-search-procedures for integrated historical, psychological, social and political theories.  <br />The question of the development of identity therefore is Erikson's main topic, which is experienced at his own body  <br />- essentially for everyone, who likes to analyse biographies ...	2005-09-30
US	46396923	R3I9DHLRAYKFTD	0820431044	178480923	The Temptations of Emile Cioran (American University Studies)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	slyly cynical aphorisms ...	\\"The principal defect of philosophy lies in the fact that academic philosophy is too bearable...\\" wrote Cioran (too bitterly for the general main stream); born 1911 in Romania, died 1995 in Paris: these two basic data of the CIORAN-curriculum vitae already are marking the subtle personal traumata: being divided by two very different cultural identities. Still loving Romania but emigrated and living safely in France, however not willing to integrate with French society he remained stateless not accepting any national identity. Obstinate he refused to receive the highest literary awards of his host country. Lost in exile - this was the everlasting frame of his mind. In an enthusiastic manner in his early years he engaged himself politically defending his Romania. Later on he was ashamed of such affectations and classified such poses as delirium, \\"kitsch\\", scrupulousness. High-skeptically he wrote, referring to the possibility of finding the real truth: \\"After all I know, that all these ideas and dogmatic thoughts are wrong and absurd. At last only human beings remain. And they are what they are. I am cured of the illness, to follow any ideology.\\" Cioran liked characters as Nietzsche, Beethoven, Luther, Rousseau: He adored their individual strength to resist against the surrounding societies - he loved the stubbornness of these famous thinkers - though sometimes obstinacy seemed to be a subject for psychiatrists. During all his life in exile the backbone of his Romanian identity was broken and Cioran did not allow himself to use Romanian language any more (remember Elias Canetti and his metaphor of the \\"robbed tongue\\" and the phenomenon of hating fragments of the own identity and history). Cioran was attracted by the chronic despair of Soeren Kierkegaard and the nihilism of Friedrich Nietzsche. His university diploma he wrote about the thesis of the \\"Elan Vital\\" in the writings of the French existence-philosopher Henri Bergson. \\"Elan Vital\\" for Cioran indeed did not mean cheerfulness - but alike an Arthur Schopenhauer or an Ambrose Bierce, filled with a badly mixture of too much brain and bile, he enjoyed to produce cool, relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...an cheerfulness - but alike an Arthur Schopenhauer or an Ambrose Bierce, filled with a badly mixture of too much brain and bile, he enjoyed to produce cool, relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...  <br />	2005-09-29
US	46396923	R2OLJXVNDKZZ1F	0865165483	642339260	Shock-Headed Peter: In Latin-English-German (Multilingual Edition)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Hidden hints for adult readers ...	\\"And at table Mother's glare / silently at all did stare\\" (in Fidgety Philip): Nowadays, to the moral toughening up, adults follow up TV-series like \\"Desperate Housewives\\", but for a first instruction of little children one could hand the \\"Shock-Headed Peter\\". We learn at the figure of TV-star \\"Susan\\" (played by Teri Hatcher) in \\"Desperate Housewives\\", that it takes trouble if one sets a house on fire, - or, if one does not look, where one steps, he will stumble. The little children (which do not need sex appeal to be able to concentrate on a topic) will learn with clear drawings of the \\"Shock-Headed Peter\\", that a house will burn down if one swirled here with open fire (Harriet and the matches). Looking to the marvelous clouds above, Johnny Head-in-Air fells down into a brook, where the fishes are waiting. While the scenes of the TV series \\"Desperate Housewives\\", which are rearranged around the overtaxed mother Lynette Scavo (played by Felicity Huffman), are dedicated to all the hard-working mothers, the \\"Shock-Headed Peter\\" grasps the core of the evil directly at the collar: the children. Augustus, who wouldn't eat his soup? He starves to death. Basta! If nowadays children go outside, for example at a hurricane of the strength of 5, they are swirled up (like \\"Flying Robert\\") as if they would intend to land on the moon. In short: there is nothing more educationally sensible, than giving children an entrance to the portal of life using the book with that tousled-hair Peter on the cover ...	2005-09-24
US	46396923	R3ADAY6785KX26	0486284697	198671428	Struwwelpeter in English Translation (Dover Children's Classics)	Books	5	2	9	N	N	Desperate Children: burning, stumbling, learning ...	\\"And at table Mother's glare / silently at all did stare\\" (in Fidgety Philip): Nowadays, to the moral toughening up, adults follow up TV-series like \\"Desperate Housewives\\", but for a first instruction of little children one could hand the \\"Shock-Headed Peter\\". We learn at the figure of TV-star \\"Susan\\" (played by Teri Hatcher) in \\"Desperate Housewives\\", that it takes trouble if one sets a house on fire, - or, if one does not look, where one steps, he will stumble. The little children (which do not need sex appeal to be able to concentrate on a topic) will learn with clear drawings of the \\"Shock-Headed Peter\\", that a house will burn down if one swirled here with open fire (Harriet and the matches). Looking to the marvelous clouds above, Hans fells down into a brook, where the fishes are waiting. While the scenes of the TV series \\"Desperate Housewives\\", which are rearranged around the overtaxed mother Lynette Scavo (played by Felicity Huffman), are dedicated to all the hard-working mothers, the \\"Shock-Headed Peter\\" grasps the core of the evil directly at the collar: the children. Augustus, who wouldn't eat his soup? He starves to death. Basta! If nowadays children go outside, for example at a hurricane of the strength of 5, they are swirled up as if they would intend to land on the moon. In short: there is nothing more educationally sensible, than giving children an entrance to the portal of life using the book with that tousled-hair Peter on the cover ...	2005-09-23
US	46396923	R1X6TM41QT5LLI	0060188707	655554658	Don Quixote	Books	5	1	5	N	N	On the importance of DOUBT ...	1575 Cervantes embarked for the umpteenth time (the Spanish king fought with his ships against Arabian kings) in the Mediterranean area, but this time he was captured by a Turkish ship and was brought as a prisoner of war to Algiers, where Cervantes spent five years in dungeon custody. In his novel we can find a fragment, where the hero Don Quijote frees a procession of galley prisoners. This chapter for example had been written with the author's knowledge of his own real time of captivity. For five months Spain's enemies put Cervantes in iron chains to break his will. But Cervantes managed a strike of twenty-five thousand prisoners of war. So Spain's enemies felt glad, when the king of Spain paid a large sum of gold, to set him free. Back in Spain Cervantes wrote his story about Don Quijote and his servant Sancho Panza, the master of doubts. And mainly this is a book about the importance of DOUBT. Cervantes knew: it could be dangerous, to fight as a hero without any doubts - that is his everlasting message. He was the forerunner of all people, who are warning, that individuals, communities or systems sometimes live a complete lie - and therefore will meet their catastrophe in their very end. But Cervantes is giving this message with humor - compare, on the other hand, the serious atmosphere of the elder parts of the bible! The ironic Odyssey of Miguel de Cervantes therefore belongs in the row of the most important cultural products in the story of Old Europe...	2005-09-20
US	46396923	R1HP6MIZ6KTJJM	1586482661	686435029	After The Wall	Books	5	7	18	N	N	A point of view ...	When I was born in 1945, my mother, a German armed forces helper on the way from Prague (deep South) up to an isle named \\"Ruegen\\" (in the very North), in the middle of her long journey through a breaking down Germany: she came down with me and, after one day in hospital, she stuffed me away into a children's home (in a town called \\"Wuppertal\\", West-Germany) - and left me to my fate. So she robbed me (among others) the experience of a childhood in the GDR, German Democratic Republic, \\"Wuppertal\\" should be \\"West-Germany\\" (American sector), the isle of Ruegen became Russian sector, behind the \\"Iron Curtain\\". So I did not learn anything about \\"Young Pioneer meetings\\", socialism, communism, STASI (the secret police) or summer camps of young \\"Pioneers\\". In the Western hemisphere I grew up, drinking Pepsi Coke, receiving American Care packages, later on: listened to the Beatles, noticed the students movement in 1968, had no Ulbrich or Honecker, but chancellor Willy Brandt and Helmut Kohl. But I tried to find out the place, where the woman could live, who had born me in that dark year 1945. After 40 years of persistent search, 1985, before the Berlin Wall fell (1989), I found out: She was living behind the \\"Iron Curtain\\" on the isle of Ruegen. And I started to look at this lost childhood, which I did not enjoy: She showed me her photo album: summer beach near \\"Kap Arkona\\" at the north-point of the isle, snowy winters on Hiddensee, flight ducks, cranes - but on the other hand coal heaps on washed-out sidewalks. Color films (Orwo), books, Trabi substitute parts: only hard to get. Nevertheless, I wanted to make up for my life in the GDR - in 1990 when the Berlin Wall was fallen: A schools inspector on the island pointed into a corridor, filled with former Stasi employees (security police) and informed me in this manner in an almost dumb \\"cadre conversation\\", he unfortunately (thanks to the \\"reunification\\" of East and West-Germany) would have to hide many people in the teaching profession now (in hastiest kind). I should return please to West-Germany, where I just had come from. The direction of my journey seemed to be absolutely atypically, out of character, and not recommendable. No \\"Ossi\\" (vs. \\"Wessi\\") - no job. As a result my mother, noticing, that all her dreams collapsed, joined an acute epidemic disease at that time: She committed a so-called balance sheets suicide. I was deprived of the chance to become a \\"zone child\\" a second time. Did I miss really much? Because the book of Jana Hensel has stimulated me to these thoughts - maybe her sometimes nostalgic \\"Ossi\\" writings (of course very different to my \\"Wessi\\"-point of view) are not as superficial, simple, banal, as I thought in the first moment? Compare her point of view ...profession now (in hastiest kind). I should return please to West-Germany, where I just had come from. The direction of my journey seemed to be absolutely atypically, out of character, and not recommendable. No \\"Ossi\\" (vs. \\"Wessi\\") - no job. As a result my mother, noticing, that all her dreams collapsed, joined an acute epidemic disease at that time: She committed a so-called balance sheets suicide. I was deprived of the chance to become a \\"zone child\\" a second time. Did I miss really much? Because the book of Jana Hensel has stimulated me to these thoughts - maybe her sometimes nostalgic \\"Ossi\\" writings (of course very different to my \\"Wessi\\"-point of view) are not as superficial, simple, banal, as I thought in the first moment? Compare her point of view ...	2005-09-15
US	46396923	R6UMQDGIPTLFC	0679445560	621445218	My American Journey: An Autobiography	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A man with a talent for self-criticism ...	Colin Powell admits now that his appearance in the security council of the UN in February 2003 was a blot in his career . He has the admirable strength now to be ashamed of it. The consequence: Today, because so the grounds for the Iraq war were lied all of them, the American soldiers immediately should be fetched back home. At the moment, one could anyway use them in the region around New Orleans very well. In addition Colin Powell should get an office in the FEMA (in opinion of some politicians as quickly as possible), - the rescue of the New Orleans-region then would for certain take sensible forms faster. One can recognize very well, why many observers believe, that Colin Powell is capable of so much sense of realism, planning talent and courage of self-criticism, if one attentively reads his autobiographical notes . At his judgements of the Serbia or Iraq war one discovers that he let himself drag only reluctantly into these hornet nests. The worry about the life of the soldiers entrusted to his care had to argue very often limiting him and to ask whether America's interests really would be under debate. However, Powell did not manage to keep the army out of everything. Although he grew up in the Bronx, although he was not overwhelmed by bad experiences in Vietnam, although he made his career up to Washington, although he is gifted with an extraordinary strength of personality : He has not managed despite all self-confidence to bend the war desire of the present Washington administration. Perhaps everything would have gone off much worse without his expertise yet! Instead of pressing him to the side, one should finally notice with deep respect this excellent leader personality. The reader of his book is perhaps once less taken in by people bedeviled only by lust for power, cliques with friends and vanity in the eyes ...	2005-09-10
US	46396923	RBA9V7O27A9QM	0679445560	621445218	My American Journey: An Autobiography	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A man with a talent for self-criticism ...	Colin Powell admits now that his appearance in the security council of the UN in February 2003 was a blot in his career . He has the admirable strength now to be ashamed of it. The consequence: Today, because so the grounds for the Iraq war were lied all of them, the American soldiers immediately should be fetched back home. At the moment, one could anyway use them in the region around New Orleans very well. In addition Colin Powell should get an office in the FEMA (in opinion of some politicians as quickly as possible), - the rescue of the New Orleans-region then would for certain take sensible forms faster. One can recognize very well, why many observers believe, that Colin Powell is capable of so much sense of realism, planning talent and courage of self-criticism, if one attentively reads his autobiographical notes . At his judgements of the Serbia or Iraq war one discovers that he let himself drag only reluctantly into these hornet nests. The worry about the life of the soldiers entrusted to his care had to argue very often limiting him and to ask whether America's interests really would be under debate. However, Powell did not manage to keep the army out of everything. Although he grew up in the Bronx, although he was not overwhelmed by bad experiences in Vietnam, although he made his career up to Washington, although he is gifted with an extraordinary strength of personality : He has not managed despite all self-confidence to bend the war desire of the present Washington administration. Perhaps everything would have gone off much worse without his expertise yet! Instead of pressing him to the side, one should finally notice with deep respect this excellent leader personality. The reader of his book is perhaps once less taken in by people bedeviled only by lust for power, cliques with friends and vanity in the eyes ...	2005-09-10
US	46396923	R3AH8AXOPH070Y	0766021157	667365493	Mahalia Jackson: The Voice of Gospel and Civil Rights (African-American Biographies)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Leaving New Orleans - to come back one day ...	Everything had started very Spartan for Mahalia Jackson (1911-1972), in New Orleans: She had to scavenge coal from the railroad tracks or collect wood from the river bank after the early death of her mother for the family of her strict aunt Duke. New Orleans had many shade sides for Mahalia: She hated the rigorous racial segregation. And she hated \\"Mardi Gras\\": Using carnival rites, hiding their identities behind their masks criminals killed. (The son of her aunt died at such a \\"Mardi Gras\\" event.) She therefore used the chance 1927, aged 16, and accompanied another sister (Hannah) of her deceased mother to Chicago. Somebody named Louis Armstrong had made up his mind similarly at that time. She got in the north of the USA the opportunity to join a quartet - soon after her voice had jealously been classified as too striking in the church choir. At first she had a hard row to hoe with a minister, who did not like her hand clapping and did not tolerate her rhythmical body movements. He furiously recommended her the return to the south. She stayed in Chicago, succeeded with her style, but it still should last long until she could drive a lavender-colored Cadillac, could buy a seven-room house in a white neighborhood, guarded by police. At least she had success. She celebrated her annual appearances in the New York Carnegie Hall or in radio shows, was praised by Martin Luther King or sang for president Eisenhower (in the 1950s) or for the inaugural at of John F. Kennedy (in the 1960s). She sang for the civil rights March on Washington or met Indira Gandhi. When she appeared (for a recording session) on the occasion of a symposium of music professors in Lenox, Massachusetts, she afterwards was assigned to sleep in a converted stable. When she woke up in her horse stall early in the morning, she heard tape recordings of her own voice floating out of the splendid villa windows. She felt very angry. She would never forget this situation. And she never has forgotten her very beginning: In New Orleans she had heard the voice of Enrico Caruso out of the windows of white neighborhoods. And she listened to the voice of Bessie Smith, coming out of the windows in black neighborhoods. A mixture of it became her own unmistakable style. Moreover, her musical heart had been set on fire at the funeral rites in New Orleans - particularly at the happier pieces following the respective burial. The blues made her too sad, she said. She disapproved by the way, that the honor of a traditional, street party like New Orleans funeral never was granted to a woman. Therefore she wrote the song \\"Jesus met the woman at the well\\". In January 1972 Mahalia was treated to a traditional New Orleans funeral. She liked bands, playing slow dirges, following a coffin drawn by white horses...beginning: In New Orleans she had heard the voice of Enrico Caruso out of the windows of white neighborhoods. And she listened to the voice of Bessie Smith, coming out of the windows in black neighborhoods. A mixture of it became her own unmistakable style. Moreover, her musical heart had been set on fire at the funeral rites in New Orleans - particularly at the happier pieces following the respective burial. The blues made her too sad, she said. She disapproved by the way, that the honor of a traditional, street party like New Orleans funeral never was granted to a woman. Therefore she wrote the song \\"Jesus met the woman at the well\\". In January 1972 Mahalia was treated to a traditional New Orleans funeral. She liked bands, playing slow dirges, following a coffin drawn by white horses...	2005-09-09
US	46396923	R29DNFJEPEQYA1	0195175832	618869877	The Resilient City: How Modern Cities Recover from Disaster	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Pompeii and Chernobyl, Banda Aceh or New Orleans ...	Pompeii or Chernobyl, Hiroshima or Dresden, Banda Aceh or New Orleans: Some towns did not come onto the legs after a catastrophe, others rose again. Bombarded or struck by earthquakes, contaminated by radiation or flooded: The inhabitants of every town want the resurrection of her identification object - provided that it is only appropriately feasible. The big fire in Chicago is examined in the book or the earthquake in San Francisco. One looks at the reconstruction of Warsaw and also Berlin after the second World War. Perhaps it makes sense to give up a town like New Orleans, three meters under the sea-level, as a housing area definitely. On the other hand, a tendency of all residents of maltreated towns is to be felt globally, which speaks about to rebuild their symbol object as unchanged as possible. Maybe it is better to manage some variations, considering the presumable future of a city during an alternated reconstruction. Towns are works of art, culture products, how to save their threatened identity? This book will remain currently a long time ...	2005-09-09
US	46396923	R188LVP9Z2XPO6	0766021157	667365493	Mahalia Jackson: The Voice of Gospel and Civil Rights (African-American Biographies)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Leaving New Orleans - to come back one day ...	Everything had started very Spartan for Mahalia Jackson (1911-1972), in New Orleans: She had to scavenge coal from the railroad tracks or collect wood from the river bank after the early death of her mother for the family of her strict aunt Duke. New Orleans had many shade sides for Mahalia: She hated the rigorous racial segregation. And she hated &quot;Mardi Gras&quot;: Using carnival rites, hiding their identities behind their masks criminals killed. (The son of her aunt died at such a &quot;Mardi Gras&quot; event.) She therefore used the chance 1927, aged 16, and accompanied another sister (Hannah) of her deceased mother to Chicago. Somebody named Louis Armstrong had made up his mind similarly at that time. She got in the north of the USA the opportunity to join a quartet - soon after her voice had jealously been classified as too striking in the church choir. At first she had a hard row to hoe with a minister, who did not like her hand clapping and did not tolerate her rhythmical body movements. He furiously recommended her the return to the south. She stayed in Chicago, succeeded with her style, but it still should last long until she could drive a lavender-colored Cadillac, could buy a seven-room house in a white neighborhood, guarded by police. At least she had success. She celebrated her annual appearances in the New York Carnegie Hall or in radio shows, was praised by Martin Luther King or sang for president Eisenhower (in the 1950s) or for the inaugural at of John F. Kennedy (in the 1960s). She sang for the civil rights March on Washington or met Indira Gandhi. When she appeared (for a recording session) on the occasion of a symposium of music professors in Lenox, Massachusetts, she afterwards was assigned to sleep in a converted stable. When she woke up in her horse stall early in the morning, she heard tape recordings of her own voice floating out of the splendid villa windows. She felt very angry. She would never forget this situation. And she never hasforgotten her very beginning: In New Orleans she had heard the voice of Enrico Caruso out of the windows of white neighborhoods. And she listened to the voice of Bessie Smith, coming out of the windows in black neighborhoods. A mixture of it became her own unmistakable style. Moreover, her musical heart had been set on fire at the funeral rites in New Orleans - particularly at the happier pieces following the respective burial. The blues made her too sad, she said. She disapproved by the way, that the honor of a traditional, street party like New Orleans funeral never was granted to a woman. Therefore she wrote the song &quot;Jesus met the woman at the well&quot;. In January 1972 Mahalia was treated to a traditional New Orleans funeral. She liked bands, playing slow dirges, following a coffin drawn by white horses...	2005-09-09
US	46396923	R3H9WTYQ9O6ALS	0195175832	618869877	The Resilient City: How Modern Cities Recover from Disaster	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Pompeii and Chernobyl, Banda Aceh or New Orleans ...	Pompeii or Chernobyl, Hiroshima or Dresden, Banda Aceh or New Orleans: Some towns did not come onto the legs after a catastrophe, others rose again. Bombarded or struck by earthquakes, contaminated by radiation or flooded: The inhabitants of every town want the resurrection of her identification object - provided that it is only appropriately feasible. The big fire in Chicago is examined in the book or the earthquake in San Francisco. One looks at the reconstruction of Warsaw and also Berlin after the second World War. Perhaps it makes sense to give up a town like New Orleans, three meters under the sea-level, as a housing area definitely. On the other hand, a tendency of all residents of maltreated towns is to be felt globally, which speaks about to rebuild their symbol object as unchanged as possible. Maybe it is better to manage some variations, considering the presumable future of a city during an alternated reconstruction. Towns are works of art, culture products, how to save their threatened identity? This book will remain currently a long time ...	2005-09-09
US	46396923	RPMMGUGE52D40	0879306394	370636413	Roy Buchanan: American Axe	Books	5	1	2	N	N	We still can listen to his unforgettable music ...	1988 Roy Buchanan decided, to hang up himself with his own T-shirt in a police cell in Fairfax, Virginia, aged 49. In the year 1971 a TV documentation had been sent titled \\"The Best Unknown Guitarist In The World\\". Nothing had (and has) changed since then. Buchanan worked as a studio musician for Elvis Presley, Chet Atkins, Ricky Nelson, Emmylou Harris, Stefan Grossman, Tom Paxton. He even got offers by the Rolling Stones [to replace Brian Jones] or by John Lennon [to play his part in the Plastic Ono Band]. Buchanan played the electrical melody guitar like a devil, chased so many notes in second fractions through the amplifier, that one could not count or write down these notes any more. On the other hand he mastered the art, to slow down melody-lines so much at certain points, that one forgets the melody never more: alike Mark Knopfler or Santana, Eric Clapton or Mark perfectly are practicing this way. I will never forget his version of \\"After Hours\\". I recorded this pretty piece of music with my tape recorder [turned old now] from the radio in 1959. Roy Buchanan (1939-1988) learned to play the Hillbilly Steel Guitar at the age of nine years, experienced public worships of blacks and whites in the South of the USA. His father was a preacher in the \\"Pentecostal Church Of God\\" and he liked to say, that his mother sang better than Billie Holiday. So Blind Boy Fuller or Elvis Presley, Delta Blues or Rockabilly lay in his cradle. He played the guitar lick of \\"Susie Q\\" nearly every evening, tantalized by the wish, to arouse the attention of the young ladies. 1963 Roy Buchanan married his girl-friend Judy and lived in the area around Washington. He had to get through his little family occasionally by working as a hairdresser. After a Rolling Stone interview in 1971 finally he became more publicly known. He played in a sold out Carnegie Hall, his first LP appeared and that mentioned television program was broadcast with the title \\"The Best Unknown Guitarist In The World\\". He played together with other \\"claptonesque\\" guitarists, came into the charts in Great Britain with a CC-Rider version, appeared in Japan and Amsterdam - and then (just back in the USA) hung himself in that prison: The backside of his great musical brilliance was an emotional instability. Though his curriculum vitae ended so sadly, he indirectly remained unchanged for us with his most creative and joyful minutes of his life - because we still can listen to his unforgettable music ...He played together with other \\"claptonesque\\" guitarists, came into the charts in Great Britain with a CC-Rider version, appeared in Japan and Amsterdam - and then (just back in the USA) hung himself in that prison: The backside of his great musical brilliance was an emotional instability. Though his curriculum vitae ended so sadly, he indirectly remained unchanged for us with his most creative and joyful minutes of his life - because we still can listen to his unforgettable music ...  <br />	2005-09-08
US	46396923	R1OK3OK5B9FKCI	0879306394	370636413	Roy Buchanan: American Axe	Books	5	7	9	N	N	We still can listen to his unforgettable music ...	1988 Roy Buchanan decided, to hang up himself with his own T-shirt in a police cell in Fairfax, Virginia, aged 49. In the year 1971 a TV documentation had been sent titled &quot;The Best Unknown Guitarist In The World&quot;. Nothing had (and has) changed since then. Buchanan worked as a studio musician for Elvis Presley, Chet Atkins, Ricky Nelson, Emmylou Harris, Stefan Grossman, Tom Paxton. He even got offers by the Rolling Stones [to replace Brian Jones] or by John Lennon [to play his part in the Plastic Ono Band]. Buchanan played the electrical melody guitar like a devil, chased so many notes in second fractions through the amplifier, that one could not count or write down these notes any more. On the other hand he mastered the art, to slow down melody-lines so much at certain points, that one forgets the melody never more: alike Mark Knopfler or Santana, Eric Clapton or Mark perfectly are practicing this way. I will never forget his version of &quot;After Hours&quot;. I recorded this pretty piece of music with my tape recorder [turned old now] from the radio in 1959. Roy Buchanan (1939-1988) learned to play the Hillbilly Steel Guitar at the age of nine years, experienced public worships of blacks and whites in the South of the USA. His father was a preacher in the &quot;Pentecostal Church Of God&quot; and he liked to say, that his mother sang better than Billie Holiday. So Blind Boy Fuller or Elvis Presley, Delta Blues or Rockabilly lay in his cradle. He played the guitar lick of &quot;Susie Q&quot; nearly every evening, tantalized by the wish, to arouse the attention of the young ladies. 1963 Roy Buchanan married his girl-friend Judy and lived in the area around Washington. He had to get through his little family occasionally by working as a hairdresser. After a Rolling Stone interview in 1971 finally he became more publicly known. He played in a sold out Carnegie Hall, his first LP appeared and that mentioned television program was broadcast with the title &quot;The Best Unknown Guitarist In The World&quot;. He played together with other &quot;claptonesque&quot; guitarists, came into the charts in Great Britain with a CC-Rider version, appeared in Japan and Amsterdam - and then (just back in the USA) hung himself in that prison: The backside of his great musical brilliance was an emotional instability. Though his curriculum vitae ended so sadly, he indirectly remained unchanged for us with his most creative and joyful minutes of his life - because we still can listen to his unforgettable music ...	2005-09-08
US	46396923	R1PCET0HAWJ7UB	0743450817	697500184	Broken Music	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Written with literary qualities ...	\\"My live seems plaited by many ropes, like a musical improvisation, composed with the different voices of a J.S. Bach fugue. The \\"Basso Continuo\\" is my development as musician, the melody lines flying high above are my human relationships ... \\" Sting writes in the middle of his thick, idyllic autobiography. The development of his music levels: As a little child he sat under the piano of his mother. She introduced into the horizon of the British family Little Richard (Tutti Frutti) and Jerry Lee Lewis's with his \\"Great ball of fire\\". To identify the bass-lines, he slowed down the speeds of his Venyl-records. He lovingly describes the atmosphere in his hometown small music shop: \\"as Aladdin's magic cave\\". His first concert-impressions (Beatles, Jimi Hendrix etc.), his gigs in jazz and pop are mentioned and his work as a bass player in an orchestra-sink at Christmas musical performances. His relationships: At first we find the well comprehensible experiences in the dancing halls of the 60s (written with humour), then the adventures while seeking a woman for the whole life (written with blood), then we find the pondering over the complicated relation to his (divorced) parents (written with tears), but especially interesting for me, written with cynicism: the precision with which he represents the details of the subtle hostilities in that school staff, he was forced to work with as a young teacher, before he ventured the great jump in a pure musician career: \\"I felt like a fish in the aquarium, but one in the false cymbal. There is a intricately maintained truce, a hostility, only badly hidden by a false, polite tone. Did the headmistress smuggled me into the staff as a collaborator? I remained in guard, but one day the swindle would be exposed ... \\" These lines may serve as a piece of evidence for my classifying, that Sting has literary qualities, coming up to the talent of novelists like John Updike for example ... A book, creating a pleasant emotional effect in every reader with his altogether peaceful, here and there viciously detailed, but mostly positive atmosphere: highly recommendable!reader with his altogether peaceful, here and there viciously detailed, but mostly positive atmosphere: highly recommendable! <br /> <br />	2005-09-07
US	46396923	R18FZDGFTAASP4	0192801996	877822233	Kant: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	1	8	N	N	We still need the spirit of Immanuel Kant !	&quot;It is the greatest incumbency of a philosopher and becomes most seldom found anyway to be consistently ...&quot; Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) wrote. If one connects this with his remark: &quot;A religion, which makes humans dark, is wrong...&quot; - then  one has to brood, how consistent people have to behave versus a gloomy religion opinion. Since &quot;September Eleven&quot; one asks not only how to react versus the Islamistic fundamentalism, but also how to act against obstinately Christian crusade reflexes. Kant behaved with pleasure quite rationally to the at that time usual religiousness: But it almost was not possible to show more than quiet irony alike: &quot;Metaphysics is a dark ocean without shores or lighthouse, strewn with many a philosophic wreck.&quot; Kant trusted in the strength of the law, trusted in the conscience, inherent to every human being. Pertinaciously he stuck to this believe - and expressed thereby a careful protest against the claim to power of the princely potentates and religion representatives. So he became a quiet advocate of the French idea of revolution while he declined any brute force at the same time. While insistently preaching the necessity of using rational intelligence, he became the indirect creator of the UN, the personification of that hope, that the community of nations should be able to come to in agreement to inform each other in such a way, that to harm each other can not be the interest of one's own mutually. Though Kant did not have the experiences of two World Wars, showing the effect of modern technology, destroying masses, he already wrote: &quot;Anger is a shock that activates all ones strength to resist evil.&quot; We, at least, should have this anger. Into the today's meet his aphorism is encouraging: &quot;If a man makes himself a worm, he must not complain when he is trodden on.&quot; Despite UNO or international Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands, reason still has not been able to gain acceptance continuously reliably opposite a national horizon limitedness, though. Last Kant-quotation, spoken in direction to the first world, considering the troubles of the &quot;third world&quot;:  &quot;Mankind could perhaps become richer by growing poorer and win by losing...&quot; How is it about wasting resources? So, I think, we still need the spirit of Immanuel KANT!	2005-09-07
US	46396923	R37WGKVO8S2RX2	0385338651	697500184	Broken Music: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Written with literary qualities ...	&quot;My live seems plaited by many ropes, like a musical improvisation, composed with the different voices of a J.S. Bach fugue. The &quot;Basso Continuo&quot; is my development as musician, the melody lines flying high above are my human relationships ... &quot; Sting writes in the middle of his thick, idyllic autobiography. The development of his music levels: As a little child he sat under the piano of his mother. She introduced into the horizon of the British family Little Richard (Tutti Frutti) and Jerry Lee Lewis's with his &quot;Great ball of fire&quot;. To identify the bass-lines, he slowed down the speeds of his Venyl-records. He lovingly describes the atmosphere in his hometown small music shop: &quot;as Aladdin's magic cave&quot;. His first concert-impressions (Beatles, Jimi Hendrix etc.), his gigs in jazz and pop are mentioned and his work as a bass player in an orchestra-sink at Christmas musical performances. His relationships: At first we find the well comprehensible experiences in the dancing halls of the 60s (written with humour), then the adventures while seeking a woman for the whole life (written with blood), then we find the pondering over the complicated relation to his (divorced) parents (written with tears), but especially interesting for me, written with cynicism: the precision with which he represents the details of the subtle hostilities in that school staff, he was forced to work with as a young teacher, before he ventured the great jump in a pure musician career: &quot;I felt like a fish in the aquarium, but one in the false cymbal. There is a intricately maintained truce, a hostility, only badly hidden by a false, polite tone. Did the headmistress smuggled me into the staff as a collaborator? I remained in guard, but one day the swindle would be exposed ... &quot; These lines may serve as a piece of evidence for my classifying, that Sting has literary qualities, coming up to the talent of novelists like John Updike for example ... A book, creating a pleasant emotional effect in every reader with his altogether peaceful, here and there viciously detailed, but mostly positive atmosphere: highly recommendable!ok, creating a pleasant emotional effect in every reader with his altogether peaceful, here and there viciously detailed, but mostly positive atmosphere: highly recommendable!	2005-09-07
US	46396923	R14EU3LZMN8IY5	0192801996	877822233	Kant: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	0	4	N	N	We still need the spirit of Immanuel Kant !	\\"It is the greatest incumbency of a philosopher and becomes most seldom found anyway to be consistently ...\\" Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) wrote. If one connects this with his remark: \\"A religion, which makes humans dark, is wrong...\\" - then  one has to brood, how consistent people have to behave versus a gloomy religion opinion. Since \\"September Eleven\\" one asks not only how to react versus the Islamistic fundamentalism, but also how to act against obstinately Christian crusade reflexes. Kant behaved with pleasure quite rationally to the at that time usual religiousness: But it almost was not possible to show more than quiet irony alike: \\"Metaphysics is a dark ocean without shores or lighthouse, strewn with many a philosophic wreck.\\" Kant trusted in the strength of the law, trusted in the conscience, inherent to every human being. Pertinaciously he stuck to this believe - and expressed thereby a careful protest against the claim to power of the princely potentates and religion representatives. So he became a quiet advocate of the French idea of revolution while he declined any brute force at the same time. While insistently preaching the necessity of using rational intelligence, he became the indirect creator of the UN, the personification of that hope, that the community of nations should be able to come to in agreement to inform each other in such a way, that to harm each other can not be the interest of one's own mutually. Though Kant did not have the experiences of two World Wars, showing the effect of modern technology, destroying masses, he already wrote: \\"Anger is a shock that activates all one's strength to resist evil.\\" We, at least, should have this anger. Into the today's meet his aphorism is encouraging: \\"If a man makes himself a worm, he must not complain when he is trodden on.\\" Despite UNO or international Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands, reason still has not been able to gain acceptance continuously reliably opposite a national horizon limitedness, though. Last Kant-quotation, spoken in direction to the first world, considering the troubles of the \\"third world\\":  \\"Mankind could perhaps become richer by growing poorer and win by losing...\\" How is it about wasting resources? So, I think, we still need the spirit of Immanuel KANT!ness, though. Last Kant-quotation, spoken in direction to the first world, considering the troubles of the \\"third world\\":  \\"Mankind could perhaps become richer by growing poorer and win by losing...\\" How is it about wasting resources? So, I think, we still need the spirit of Immanuel KANT!	2005-09-07
US	46396923	R7DTAV89W4V2E	0393322238	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The wish of Roman Polanski ...	When Roman Polanski published his Mcbeth film, everyone wrote, the sombre of this film is due to the just suffered experience of the Manson massacre. That will probably be correct. He went through thus something. Not only that his highly pregnant woman was murdered and, besides, some of his friends: The gossip press in Hollywood at first assumed  that the Polanski-scene necessarily had caused such an outrage, considering their drug abuse and their sexual liberality. Short-said: The victims are responsible themselves in this murder scenery. Thankfully Polanski points in his autobiography \\"ROMAN\\" to the author Vincent Bugliosi, who has investigated the things criminological correctly. Polanski complains very much, that the absolutely disoriented speculations of the press - Newsweek, Times, Life magazine - would never have experienced a regret, a reply, a taking back. He wishes heart-felt, that many people make themselves with the book of Vincent Bugliosi, finally, a correct conception of the Manson \\"Family\\" - the word \\"Family\\" Polanski (very much justified in this case) sets always in quotation marks...	2005-09-04
US	46396923	R3ARBOUB2KDL41	0140443290	167149132	A Nietzsche Reader (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	19	N	N	What does not kill me will make me stronger ...	As long as one is still young, one tries to philosophize. One guesses the delirium which philosophy has produced, one dreams of copying it and of carrying it further. The youth likes itself in the trick of the heights; with a thinker youth loves the tightrope walker; in Nietzsche they loved his poses, his mystic clownery; really a summit fun fair ... \\" wrote Emile Cioran.<br /><br />But nowadays with Nietzsche one has his problems. Maximum embarrassingly had been how Nazi-leaders misinterpreted and misused Nietzsche for their race theories, veiled by Richard Wagner's melodramatic style.<br /><br />If one takes his gossip of the \\"Superhuman\\" [&Uuml;bermensch], nevertheless, as the psychoanalytic classified attempt, to know himself as gotten sick in need of care (fallen ill with Syphilis) between sister and mother, rescueless wedged, and therefore, as a counterbalance, get lost in the daydream to be a new Dionysos or a Greek God (at first mockingly, then in the final stage schizophrenic megalomaniac), - then his efforts seem to be \\"human, all too-human\\".<br /><br />\\"What does not kill me, will make me stronger ... \\" he tried to persuade himself euphorically, in fear to have a lack of courage. The treating physicians probably did not tell him (regarding the prudishness of that time) the shocking truth of the irreparable gravity of his illness.<br /><br />\\"Philosophy is a kind of revenge versus reality ... \\" he wrote full energy, high-spirited. One dreams to have a power, which one does not possess in the reality. Nietzsche's writings are a sort of compensation of a frustrated human being, writings like a battle-cry, tattooed deep in the soul, hoping to get managed a departure into success.<br /><br />The only germ of a flaming up love relationship - namely to Lou Salome (later companion of Rainer Maria Rilke and at the same time famous first female psychoanalyst in the circle of Freud) - this only germ, rich in chances of an erotic self-realization, was trampled down by the heavy envy and jealousy of his frigates-like sister and his mother.<br /><br />Aged twenty, however, he had used a experimental way, practicing his sort of sexuality, which seemed at first sight easy and more cheap, in the final effect has been full of pain: \\"There are two things, a genuine man wants: danger and play. Therefore, he wants the woman, as the most dangerous toy ... \\" he noted in juvenile carelessness. He himself reported to the doctors in Leipzig and Jena, who  should treat him against his Syphilis infection, that he had practiced brothel visits 1865 in Cologne and 1866 in Leipzig.<br /><br />Indeed, he struck already in 1865 in Trieste by the fact that he, weeping, embraced a horse (hit by a coachman) and then broke down. The actually heavy outbreak of the illness is dated by doctors on 1888. Nietzsche's note \\"The degree and kind of a person's sexuality reaches up into the topmost summit of his spirit ... \\" oscillates on this background ambiguously of course with a maybe unintentional double-sense. Certain is, that only the final phase of his writing (ecce homo) is to be considered as intellectually clouded.<br /><br />Yet we have the duty to weigh with necessary care the writings before 1888. But even as a heavy nursing-destitute he still produced some special diamonds of written language: \\"If you look for a long time into an abyss, the abyss afterwards also looks into you inside ... \\"; \\"He who has a goal to live for, is able to endure almost everything ... \\" or: \\"There are servile souls, which propel the appreciation for given benefactions so far, that they strangle themselves with the snare of gratitude ... \\" That means evidently, that he only rather sullenly will have submitted himself under the over-protection, coming from his sister and mother. Nevertheless, no superhuman-power could help him to escape their claws.<br /><br />On the other hand, maybe just by the distance to an everyday life Nietzsche was able to focus the society in such acool manner - and to daydream completely undisturbed a total free self-reliant human being. This ideal type is a little bit shaped like Nietzsche himself: The \\"Superhuman\\" is a strong-minded and unbound philosopher, but sometimes the cautious and shy  philologist Nietzsche is shining through.<br /><br />On the one we remember the popular Nietzsche-slogan \\"God is dead\\", then, on the other hand, we feel, that his origin from a priest's family has not passed - and we even suppose, that the negative posture towards the religion and the minister's family, are finally only the two sides of the one and same coin.<br /><br />Though - the religious criticism of Nietzsche is not to understand only psychologically as an opposition against his family background (11 forefathers on the paternal side were ministers): To see denominations critically has been the  intellectual behaviour of that time. Nature science, Kant, Descartes: they shocked the church authorities of that days.<br /><br />Nietzsche's mocking remark \\"Madness of single persons is something rare, but the madness of groups, parties, crowds seems to be the rule ... \\" qualifies his personal fate (syphilis) nearly not as bad as the (\\"healthy\\") foolishness of the masses - especially, if one considers, what the German history planned to bring up ...<br /><br />And because he wrote (and his power-mad sister Elisabeth F&ouml;rster-Nietzsche has forgotten to censure and to extinguish that during the posthumous publication of his writings:) \\"He who thinks a lot, is not suitable for a party man; too soon he thinks through the party throughout ... \\" - because he wrote this, it is not to be accepted seriously, that he could have live in harmony with a National Socialist party.<br /><br />Also he brought on paper: \\"I mistrust all dogmatics and systematic and avoid to contact them. The will to a system is a lack of righteousness.\\" And, elsewhere: \\"Convictions are more dangerous enemies of the truth than lies.\\" Or (without ever having heard an O-tone of Goebbels or Hitler, Nietzsche formulated timeless brilliantly): \\"With a very loud voice in the neck one is nearly unable to think fine things.\\"<br /><br />\\"The most valuable examinations are found latest, but the most valuable examinations are the methods \\" - Nietzsche wrote. Indeed: if one did not take Zarathustra's words as instructions for war lords or other dubious idols, but, in the contrary, classifies this work as a brilliant, highly ironical effort to use language creatively, Nietzsche's books would have a fair chance to survive. Maybe his ability to describe psychological subjects will live longer than some of his philosophical disputes. The collection of R.J. Hollingdale (he died 2001) is a very good chance, to proof Nietzsche's message ...the society in such a cool manner - and to daydream completely undisturbed a total free self-reliant human being. This ideal type is a little bit shaped like Nietzsche himself: The \\"Superhuman\\" is a strong-minded and unbound philosopher, but sometimes the cautious and shy  philologist Nietzsche is shining through.  <br /> <br />On the one we remember the popular Nietzsche-slogan \\"God is dead\\", then, on the other hand, we feel, that his origin from a priest's family has not passed - and we even suppose, that the negative posture towards the religion and the minister's family, are finally only the two sides of the one and same coin.  <br /> <br />Though - the religious criticism of Nietzsche is not to understand only psychologically as an opposition against his family background (11 forefathers on the paternal side were ministers): To see denominations critically has been the  intellectual behaviour of that time. Nature science, Kant, Descartes: they shocked the church authorities of that days.  <br /> <br />Nietzsche's mocking remark \\"Madness of single persons is something rare, but the madness of groups, parties, crowds seems to be the rule ... \\" qualifies his personal fate (syphilis) nearly not as bad as the (\\"healthy\\") foolishness of the masses - especially, if one considers, what the German history planned to bring up ...  <br /> <br />And because he wrote (and his power-mad sister Elisabeth Frster-Nietzsche has forgotten to censure and to extinguish that during the posthumous publication of his writings:) \\"He who thinks a lot, is not suitable for a party man; too soon he thinks through the party throughout ... \\" - because he wrote this, it is not to be accepted seriously, that he could have live in harmony with a National Socialist party.  <br /> <br />Also he brought on paper: \\"I mistrust all dogmatics and systematic and avoid to contact them. The will to a system is a lack of righteousness.\\" And, elsewhere: \\"Convictions are more dangerous enemies of the truththan lies.\\" Or (without ever having heard an O-tone of Goebbels or Hitler, Nietzsche formulated timeless brilliantly): \\"With a very loud voice in the neck one is nearly unable to think fine things.\\"   <br /> <br />\\"The most valuable examinations are found latest, but the most valuable examinations are the methods \\" - Nietzsche wrote. Indeed: if one did not take Zarathustra's words as instructions for war lords or other dubious idols, but, in the contrary, classifies this work as a brilliant, highly ironical effort to use language creatively, Nietzsche's books would have a fair chance to survive. Maybe his ability to describe psychological subjects will live longer than some of his philosophical disputes. The collection of R.J. Hollingdale (he died 2001) is a very good chance, to proof Nietzsche's message ... <br /> <br />	2005-09-03
US	46396923	R16716M7GQMBVR	0262521997	954417085	The Principle of Hope, Vol. 1 (Studies in Contemporary German Social Thought)	Books	5	26	49	N	N	written 1938-1947 in the "Public Library", Manhattan ...	Ernst Bloch (1885-1977) was a professor for philosophy at the University of Leipzig from 1949-1956. But September 20, 1961, Associated Press reported: \\"The internationally admitted philosopher professor Ernst Bloch did not return from a visit in the Federal Republic (BRD, West-Germany) to the Soviet Zone (GDR, East-Germany).\\" One of his reasons: The building of the wall between the two German states August 13, 1961.<br /><br />In his suit-case Bloch did not have no more possession than a crime-book of Agatha Christie. A typical nonchalant gesture of the philosopher of hope and progress. He wrote to the GDR-administration: \\"I am no longer determined to offer my work and myself to unworthy conditions.\\"<br /><br />His peerless magnus opus, \\"The Principle of Hope\\", he wrote in the years 1938-1947 in the \\"Public Library\\" in Manhattan at the 42nd street - after he had been driven out of Germany by the Nazis, who burned books and terrorized jews and socialists. His wife Karola earned the money, working as an architect in New York.<br /><br />Back in Germany (1949) he at first helped to evolve Marxian thinking. But it did not last long, then he wrote: \\"Now chess must be finally played - instead of Bingo.\\" \\"Nowadays one can select between dull or wrong. With a wrong shoe however no one is able to walk far. A cloudy glass also makes anything cloudy, which is poured in...\\" With such aphorisms Ernst Bloch very soon became a mentor in the epicenter of the 1968 student movement in Tuebingen, a famous university in West-Germany.<br /><br />Bloch often tried to convince via small anecdotes, for example the description, how Stephenson, the inventor of the steam engine, managed not to lose HOPE: \\"In vain he followed the first boiler on wheels running behind. The steam machine more and more rapidly approached a curve. The mother of all railway engines drove straightforward and exploded at the wall of a house. Stephenson now everything had understood completely. He built a new machine, equipped with a steering-wheel, using an iron-track.\\"<br /><br />Like the art of engineering philosophy should never forget, that to proceed is an important component. This still has been the reasonable message of Bloch's philosophy - though, in the meantime, some states (i.e. hammers and sickles) have had to change their doctrines fundamental ...new machine, equipped with a steering-wheel, using an iron-track.\\"  <br /> <br />Like the art of engineering philosophy should never forget, that to proceed is an important component. This still has been the reasonable message of Bloch's philosophy - though, in the meantime, some states (i.e. hammers and sickles) have had to change their doctrines fundamental ...  <br />	2005-09-02
US	46396923	R6IWB3Q78BWPI	0521002931	801991666	Spinoza: A Life	Books	5	7	9	N	N	By the name of Spinoza !	Baruch de Spinoza (1632-1677), an early figure of European Enlightenment like a Netherlands Descartes or Giordano Bruno, - he fought with his publications for the inauguration of modern times, influenced by sober reason - but still caught in the historical context of a society, which was ruled by the dictatorial interests of confessions and government cabals. <br />During Spinoza's lifetime (only 45 years) Amsterdam probably has been Europe's most alive, free and multi-cultural large city - the true mother of Nieuw Amsterdam = New York. As freely however, that anyone could philosophize, whatever he liked to sermonize - no, that wasnt possible staying completely unpunished.<br />Many of the perforce secret supporters of Spinoza (publishers, booksellers, authors) landed in the prison or in banishing. Most glaringly is the story of the brothers Johan and Cornelis de Witt, who had protected Spinoza, providing him with food, money and legal support:  A furious mob of Monarchists and Calvinists in 1672 got them out of prison and carried out a lynching court in the style of that time: they mangled the bodies and pulled out the hearts, showing them full of triumph to the audience - many of the members of the aristocracy, sitting in carriages. A very anarchistic version of almost forgotten Inca- and Aztec-rites. Only with strive Spinoza's friends could prevent him from posting a placard near the site of the massacre, reading ULTIMI BARBARORUM (You are the greatest of all barbarians). <br />Spinoza's family, Jewish, harassed by the Inquisition, had escaped Spain like thousand others to find refuge in the Netherlands, which showed more toleration. Spinoza's first thinking results, which regarded the Bible as an historical writing collection of different humans (thus by no means written by God), led him to be excommunicated from the Dutch community of Portuguese Jews. The autocratic Sephardim rabbinical leadership wrote 1656 in beautiful calligraphic letters: \\"As to the judgement of the angels and statement of the holy we banish, curse, bewitch and condemn Baruch de Spinoza. Beware of operating with him verbally or in writing, beware of proving him the smallest favor, beware of reading his books...\\"<br />The remainder of his life (like an early forerunner of the famous Anne Frank, who was hidden by Amsterdam citizens from Nazi pursuance) Spinoza hid mostly in small grave chambers of rooms and he lost all the wealth of his family business. Secretly he was supported by friends. Additional he earned money by lens grinding (but the sharpening of glass caused an early death: the inhaled dust destroyed his lungs). Convinced of the correctness of his thinking he as long as possible continued writing, persistently and annoyingly - however anonymous. <br />He did not want to die in public at stake like his forerunner Giordano Bruno in Rome 1600. Spinoza was fascinated by the hypothesis of a Pantheism, first developed by the efforts of Giordano Bruno. In his \\"Treatise on the Emendation of the Intellect\\" he defined God as ruled by the same causes like nature (\\"deus, siva natura\\"). At that time neither the Jews  nor the Christians had been ready to accept such dogmatic changes or at least to tolerate such opinions (which of course weakened the religious authorities). <br />A large city is - today like at that time - characterized by the fact, that trends in different parts of the society are not simultaneous. The aristocratic, bourgeois, working class or religious circles always have different speeds. The intellectual circles, sympathizing with Spinoza, seemed to live already in the 18th century. <br />Because Spinoza, inspired by Hobbes, also risked to formulate basics of a democratic society, he came immediately into conflict with the Netherlands Orangists, who controlled the state. The mob, brought to a level of puppets as well by the princes as by the clerical - the mob was not enlightenmentable by the shy and sensitive considerations of a cautiously hidden publisher. <br />We would have to thank Spinoza (if it would be possible) for his persistance, which helped to develop modern constitutions of states and stabilized the opinion, that a religion must not be monopolized, but, in the contrary, has to follow individual interpretations as well. With regard to September Eleven and the US-reaction against fundamentalist assaults we faster could decide, how to response. I think: not using military, but using reason: no religion should lead us to a Crusade or a \\"Reverse Crusade\\" anymore. Monopolizing trends of denominations should be stopped. By the name of Spinoza!	2005-09-01
US	46396923	R155D2V5NAM8PJ	0521002931	801991666	Spinoza: A Life	Books	5	3	5	N	N	By the name of Spinoza !	Baruch de Spinoza (1632-1677), an early figure of European Enlightenment like a Netherlands Descartes or Giordano Bruno, - he fought with his publications for the inauguration of modern times, influenced by sober reason - but still caught in the historical context of a society, which was ruled by the dictatorial interests of confessions and government cabals.<br /><br />During Spinoza's lifetime (only 45 years) Amsterdam probably has been Europe's most alive, free and multi-cultural large city - the true mother of Nieuw Amsterdam = New York. As freely however, that anyone could philosophize, whatever he liked to sermonize - no, that wasn't possible staying completely unpunished.<br /><br />Many of the perforce secret supporters of Spinoza (publishers, booksellers, authors) landed in the prison or in banishing. Most glaringly is the story of the brothers Johan and Cornelis de Witt, who had protected Spinoza, providing him with food, money and legal support:  A furious mob of Monarchists and Calvinists in 1672 got them out of prison and carried out a lynching court in the style of that time: they mangled the bodies and pulled out the hearts, showing them full of triumph to the audience - many of the members of the aristocracy, sitting in carriages. A very anarchistic version of almost forgotten Inca- and Aztec-rites. Only with strive Spinoza's friends could prevent him from posting a placard near the site of the massacre, reading ULTIMI BARBARORUM (You are the greatest of all barbarians).<br /><br />Spinoza's family, Jewish, harassed by the Inquisition, had escaped Spain like thousand others to find refuge in the Netherlands, which showed more toleration. Spinoza's first thinking results, which regarded the Bible as an historical writing collection of different humans (thus by no means written by God), led him to be excommunicated from the Dutch community of Portuguese Jews. The autocratic Sephardim rabbinical leadership wrote 1656 in beautiful calligraphic letters: \\"As to the judgement of the angels and statement of the holy we banish, curse, bewitch and condemn Baruch de Spinoza. Beware of operating with him verbally or in writing, beware of proving him the smallest favor, beware of reading his books...\\"<br /><br />The remainder of his life (like an early forerunner of the famous Anne Frank, who was hidden by Amsterdam citizens from Nazi pursuance) Spinoza hid mostly in small grave chambers of rooms and he lost all the wealth of his family business. Secretly he was supported by friends. Additional he earned money by lens grinding (but the sharpening of glass caused an early death: the inhaled dust destroyed his lungs). Convinced of the correctness of his thinking he as long as possible continued writing, persistently and annoyingly - however anonymous.<br /><br />He did not want to die in public at stake like his forerunner Giordano Bruno in Rome 1600. Spinoza was fascinated by the hypothesis of a Pantheism, first developed by the efforts of Giordano Bruno. In his \\"Treatise on the Emendation of the Intellect\\" he defined God as ruled by the same causes like nature (\\"deus, siva natura\\"). At that time neither the Jews  nor the Christians had been ready to accept such dogmatic changes or at least to tolerate such opinions (which of course weakened the religious authorities).<br /><br />A large city is - today like at that time - characterized by the fact, that trends in different parts of the society are not simultaneous. The aristocratic, bourgeois, working class or religious circles always have different speeds. The intellectual circles, sympathizing with Spinoza, seemed to live already in the 18th century.<br /><br />Because Spinoza, inspired by Hobbes, also risked to formulate basics of a democratic society, he came immediately into conflict with the Netherlands Orangists, who controlled the state. The mob, brought to a level of puppets as well by the princes as by the clerical - the mob was not enlightenmentable by the shy and sensitive considerations of a cautiously hidden publisher.<br /><br />We would have to thank Spinoza (if it would be possible) for his persistance, which helped to develop modern constitutions of states and stabilized the opinion, that a religion must not be monopolized, but, in the contrary, has to follow individual interpretations as well. With regard to September Eleven and the US-reaction against fundamentalist assaults we faster could decide, how to response. I think: not using military, but using reason: no religion should lead us to a Crusade or a \\"Reverse Crusade\\" anymore. Monopolizing trends of denominations should be stopped. By the name of Spinoza!table by the shy and sensitive considerations of a cautiously hidden publisher.  <br /> <br />We would have to thank Spinoza (if it would be possible) for his persistance, which helped to develop modern constitutions of states and stabilized the opinion, that a religion must not be monopolized, but, in the contrary, has to follow individual interpretations as well. With regard to September Eleven and the US-reaction against fundamentalist assaults we faster could decide, how to response. I think: not using military, but using reason: no religion should lead us to a Crusade or a \\"Reverse Crusade\\" anymore. Monopolizing trends of denominations should be stopped. By the name of Spinoza! <br /> <br />	2005-09-01
US	46396923	RVTOICZJ9AYBB	1400040213	803195242	The Complete Works (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	33	42	N	N	Retired, seeking distance to a world of bloody fights ...	&quot;My library is in the third story of a tower; on the first is my chapel, on the second a bedroom with ante-chambers, where I often lie to be alone; and above it there is a great wardrobe. Adjoining my library is a very neat little room, in which a fire can be laid in winter, and which is pleasantly lighted by a window...&quot; Michel de Montaigne (1533 - 1592) wrote in the chapter &quot;On Three Kinds of Relationships&quot;. Montaigne liked being retired, seeking distance to a world of bloody fights between religious groups. Did these things develop, 400 years later? Montaigne tried to escape dogmatic thoughts finding a new way of writing and hammering out thoughts via his typical relaxed method of writing. Living 200 years earlier than the other genius of essay, the poor Soeren Kierkegaard, Montaigne was not as filled up with anxiety as the Danish philosopher - he instead managed to stay calm with a solid resource of optimism, though things outside his favorite tower often run very worse. His courageous goal was the overcoming of the stereotyped medieval conception of the world, in which humans usually had been overwhelmed by church- or government-authorities like puppets on a string. Montaigne established the departure to individual noticing, founded an anthropocentric view of world. This probably had something fresh to his contemporary readers. Montaignes program was to dip down in ones own mind: &quot;Everyone, who is listening to his inner landscape of thoughts, is able to discover his identity, so that he is able to repel everything, which does not fit this.&quot; About his style of writing essayist Elias Canetti noticed: &quot;Montaigne is most beautiful, because he does not hurry.&quot; Aged 17 Michel de Montaigne had ridden to Paris, to complete his humanistic education. There he had attached important relations, had operated with prostitutes notoriously and had squandered one the family wealth, until the father pulled the emergency brake and called him back to Bordeaux, where he had to begin a boring job at the local court (if we can trust the speculations of the French biographer Lacouture). Historically more secured is Montaigne's political identity: the France of his time had torn up, the faith splitting escalated in the &quot;St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre&quot; in Paris on 24 August 1572, bloody amuck in many other French cities followed, also in Montaigne's Bordeaux. He had been the mayor, and particularly in the second term of office 1583-85, he skillfully succeeded to calm down the parties (Catholics tried to slaughter the Protestant Huguenots). His &quot;ideology-free&quot; position had been developed in expanded studies of the classical philosophers - and in a thereupon diametrically opposite literary attempt to justify an own individual kind of thinking and writing: precisely analyzing human conditions (using oneself as the only field, we can explore without too much strange mistakes) without being paralyzed by social regulations of how to search and communicate. &quot;I do not proclaim doctrines of faith, but not obligatory opinions, which you can classify as a gesture alike children, trying to show their experiments: they only want to learn, not to instruct or indoctrinate.&quot; The skeptical, further-asking, essentially open dialogue of Montaigne influenced such thinkers as Diderot, Lichtenberg or Nietzsche. His writing method encouraged philosophy, psychology - and hundreds of essayists. Indeed we hope, that Montaigne's voice will never get lost ...	2005-08-28
US	46396923	R3DMRP65U3PL4Y	1400040213	803195242	The Complete Works (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Retired, seeking distance to a world of bloody fights ...	\\"My library is in the third story of a tower; on the first is my chapel, on the second a bedroom with ante-chambers, where I often lie to be alone; and above it there is a great wardrobe. Adjoining my library is a very neat little room, in which a fire can be laid in winter, and which is pleasantly lighted by a window...\\" Michel de Montaigne (1533 - 1592) wrote in the chapter \\"On Three Kinds of Relationships\\". Montaigne liked being retired, seeking distance to a world of bloody fights between religious groups. Did these things develop, 400 years later? Montaigne tried to escape dogmatic thoughts finding a new way of writing and hammering out thoughts via his typical relaxed method of writing. Living 200 years earlier than the other genius of essay, the poor Soeren Kierkegaard, Montaigne was not as filled up with anxiety as the Danish philosopher - he instead managed to stay calm with a solid resource of optimism, though things outside his favorite tower often run very worse. His courageous goal was the overcoming of the stereotyped medieval conception of the world, in which humans usually had been overwhelmed by church- or government-authorities like puppets on a string. Montaigne established the departure to individual noticing, founded an anthropocentric view of world. This probably had something fresh to his contemporary readers. Montaignes program was to dip down in ones own mind: \\"Everyone, who is listening to his inner landscape of thoughts, is able to discover his identity, so that he is able to repel everything, which does not fit this.\\" About his style of writing essayist Elias Canetti noticed: \\"Montaigne is most beautiful, because he does not hurry.\\" Aged 17 Michel de Montaigne had ridden to Paris, to complete his humanistic education. There he had attached important relations, had operated with prostitutes notoriously and had squandered one the family wealth, until the father pulled the emergency brake and called him back to Bordeaux, where he had to begin a boring job at the local court (if we can trust the speculations of the French biographer Lacouture). Historically more secured is Montaigne's political identity: the France of his time had torn up, the faith splitting escalated in the \\"St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre\\" in Paris on 24 August 1572, bloody amuck in many other French cities followed, also in Montaigne's Bordeaux. He had been the mayor, and particularly in the second term of office 1583-85, he skillfully succeeded to calm down the parties (Catholics tried to slaughter the Protestant Huguenots). His \\"ideology-free\\" position had been developed in expanded studies of the classical philosophers - and in a thereupon diametrically opposite literary attempt to justify an own individual kind of thinking and writing: precisely analyzing human conditions (using oneself as the only field, we can explore without too much strange mistakes) without being paralyzed by social regulations of how to search and communicate. \\"I do not proclaim doctrines of faith, but not obligatory opinions, which you can classify as a gesture alike children, trying to show their experiments: they only want to learn, not to instruct or indoctrinate.\\" The skeptical, further-asking, essentially open dialogue of Montaigne influenced such thinkers as Diderot, Lichtenberg or Nietzsche. His writing method encouraged philosophy, psychology - and hundreds of essayists. Indeed we hope, that Montaigne's voice will never get lost ...n a boring job at the local court (if we can trust the speculations of the French biographer Lacouture). Historically more secured is Montaigne's political identity: the France of his time had torn up, the faith splitting escalated in the \\"St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre\\" in Paris on 24 August 1572, bloody amuck in many other French cities followed, also in Montaigne's Bordeaux. He had been the mayor, and particularly in the second term of office 1583-85, he skillfully succeeded to calm down the parties (Catholics tried to slaughter the Protestant Huguenots). His \\"ideology-free\\" position had been developed in expanded studies of the classical philosophers - and in a thereupon diametrically opposite literary attempt to justify an own individual kind of thinking and writing: precisely analyzing human conditions (using oneself as the only field, we can explore without too much strange mistakes) without being paralyzed by social regulations of how to search and communicate. \\"I do not proclaim doctrines of faith, but not obligatory opinions, which you can classify as a gesture alike children, trying to show their experiments: they only want to learn, not to instruct or indoctrinate.\\" The skeptical, further-asking, essentially open dialogue of Montaigne influenced such thinkers as Diderot, Lichtenberg or Nietzsche. His writing method encouraged philosophy, psychology - and hundreds of essayists. Indeed we hope, that Montaigne's voice will never get lost ...	2005-08-28
US	46396923	R388FJ7MXU5EZQ	0804704864	309636005	The Complete Essays of Montaigne	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Wanting to show us his experiments, not indoctrinating ...	&quot;My library is in the third story of a tower; on the first is my chapel, on the second a bedroom with ante-chambers, where I often lie to be alone; and above it there is a great wardrobe. Adjoining my library is a very neat little room, in which a fire can be laid in winter, and which is pleasantly lighted by a window...&quot; Michel de Montaigne (1533 - 1592) wrote in the chapter &quot;On Three Kinds of Relationships&quot;.<br />Montaigne liked being retired, seeking distance to a world of bloody fights between religious groups. Did these things develop, 400 years later? Montaigne tried to escape dogmatic thoughts finding a new way of hammering out thoughts via his typical relaxed method of writing. Living 200 years earlier than the other genius of essay, the poor Soeren Kierkegaard, Montaigne was not as filled up with anxiety as the Danish philosopher - he instead managed to stay calm with a solid resource of optimism, though things outside his favorite tower often run very worse.<br />His courageous goal was the overcoming of the stereotyped medieval conception of the world, in which humans usually had been overwhelmed by church- or government-authorities like puppets on a string. Montaigne established the departure to individual noticing, founded an anthropocentric view of world. This probably had something fresh to his contemporary readers.<br />Montaignes program was to dip down in ones own mind: &quot;Everyone, who is listening to his inner landscape of thoughts, is able to discover his identity, so that he is able to repel everything, which does not fit this.&quot; About his style of writing essayist Elias Canetti noticed: &quot;Montaigne is most beautiful, because he does not hurry.&quot;<br />Aged 17 Michel de Montaigne had ridden to Paris, to complete his humanistic education. There he had attached important relations, had operated with prostitutes notoriously and had squandered the family wealth, until the father pulled the emergency brake and called him back to Bordeaux, where he had to begin a boring job at the local court (if we can trust the speculations of the French biographer Lacouture).<br />Historically more secured is Montaigne's political identity: the France of his time had torn up, the faith splitting escalated in the &quot;St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre&quot; in Paris on 24 August 1572, bloody amuck in many other French cities followed, also in Montaigne's Bordeaux. He had been the mayor, and particularly in the second term of office 1583-85, he skillfully succeeded to calm down the parties (Catholics tried to slaughter the Protestant Huguenots).<br />His &quot;ideology-free&quot; position had been developed in expanded studies of the classical philosophers - and in a thereupon diametrically opposite literary attempt to justify an own individual kind of thinking and writing: precisely analyzing human conditions (using oneself as the only field, one can explore without too much strange mistakes) without being paralyzed by social regulations of how to search and communicate.<br />&quot;I do not proclaim doctrines of faith, but not obligatory opinions, which one can classify as a gesture alike done by children, trying to show their experiments: they only want to learn, not to instruct or indoctrinate.&quot;<br />The skeptical, further-asking, essentially open dialogue of Montaigne influenced such thinkers as Diderot, Lichtenberg or Nietzsche. His writing method encouraged philosophy, psychology - and hundreds of essayists. Indeed we hope, that Montaigne's voice will never get lost ...d him back to Bordeaux, where he had to begin a boring job at the local court (if we can trust the speculations of the French biographer Lacouture).<br />Historically more secured is Montaigne's political identity: the France of his time had torn up, the faith splitting escalated in the &quot;St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre&quot; in Paris on 24 August 1572, bloody amuck in many other French cities followed, also in Montaigne's Bordeaux. He had been the mayor, and particularly in the second term of office 1583-85, he skillfully succeeded to calm down the parties (Catholics tried to slaughter the Protestant Huguenots).<br />His &quot;ideology-free&quot; position had been developed in expanded studies of the classical philosophers - and in a thereupon diametrically opposite literary attempt to justify an own individual kind of thinking and writing: precisely analyzing human conditions (using oneself as the only field, one can explore without too much strange mistakes) without being paralyzed by social regulations of how to search and communicate.<br />&quot;I do not proclaim doctrines of faith, but not obligatory opinions, which one can classify as a gesture alike done by children, trying to show their experiments: they only want to learn, not to instruct or indoctrinate.&quot;<br />The skeptical, further-asking, essentially open dialogue of Montaigne influenced such thinkers as Diderot, Lichtenberg or Nietzsche. His writing method encouraged philosophy, psychology - and hundreds of essayists. Indeed we hope, that Montaigne's voice will never get lost ...	2005-08-28
US	46396923	R12WK7ZTEERSI7	0486417670	755011729	Time and Free Will: An Essay on the Immediate Data of Consciousness	Books	5	9	21	N	N	Never isolate present and past ...	Aged 80, already ill, Henri Bergson (1859-1941) went downstairs to the street (in his slippers and a sleep skirt) to underwrite a Nazi-registration-form, that he was one of the so called unworthy living creatures, a Jew, having no rights, being discharged, honourless, defenseless, unprotected. When in the \\"Etat Francais\\" also a Jew statute had been announced, the French government had offered an exception treatment to Bergson, that famous citizen of Jewish birth. However professor Bergson refused receiving such a gift from such hand. 1920, on the occasion of the establishment of the United Nations, Henri Bergson had been a first president of the commission for mental co-operation (when times were to be called still worthy to human beings). 1927 he had received the Nobelprize of literature regarding to his main-publication \\"Creative Evolution\\". At the end of his life the public ethic level had been fallen down immeasurably deep. Commissions for \\"mental co-operation\\" (1920) evidently had disappeared and instead had been replaced by tanks, execution committees, gasification camps and other genocide methods. The esteem of an human being you cannot measure exactly via empiric sciences (i.e. Nazi biological race sciences). An anthropology of such a bedeviled horizon of course fails his subject. The risk of every empiric, specialized science (i.e. psychology, social and political sciences) is to underestimate human beings via shortened views, operating with the handicap of false subtle ideologies, conceptions, definitions - and the practice to analyze only a small section of time. To seize the \\"life melody\\" of a human being, it is not sufficient to emerge ridiculously only one or two notes. The entire \\"SPAN\\", if possible from the birth to the end of a biography, - only such a span (the complete melody, not a single note) is able to illuminate the secret of a human personality to a sympathizing viewer. Only via this method you can discover the dynamics, movements, changing spirals, the will to carry through, the persistent believe at the own worth of a person - even if the social associates have lost such a horizon long time ago. Bergson's father had been a music teacher and a composer - considering this fact, the idea of talking metaphorically about \\"single notes\\" and a complete \\"life-melody\\" touches the heart. The upcoming of the psychoanalytic theory of Sigmund Freud surely inspired Bergson - and though there are some mad, too punctual views in this Vienna theories: this specialized science delivered a plenty of hypotheses better than the usual biological ones. Otherwise Bergson inspired a lot of novelists: Marcel Proust or James Joyce, Sartre (his writings about Flaubert) or Nikos Kazantzakis' movie \\"Alexis Sorbas\\" (featuring Anthony Quinn as the pure embodiment of \\"elan vital\\"). Erik H. Erikson with his innovative book \\"Identity and life cycle\\" also is one of the innumerable researchers, who developed knowledge into this advanced direction: the concept of duration, of showing a complete life-melody. A quotation out of a lecture held 1911 by Bergson at the university of Oxford: \\"Via philosophy we can get accustomed, never to isolate the present from the past. Via philosophy all things gain a depth of field, something like a fourth dimension, which permits to associate the earlier perceptions with the present.\\" In the title of Bergson's book \\"Creative Evolution\\" the nature of this unusual human is as crystallizing as in that delivered gesture, underwriting the Nazi-registration-form, just as the inhumanity of German occupiers required. Surely none of them understood the nonchalant irony of this doing (in the spirit of a mind, which never loses a sort of a \\"BIRDS VIEW\\"). I like to compare this scene with a fragment of Emile Cioran, another French author; he wrote: \\"Did you see, how the birds, at first hunting in the roads, suddenly did ascend high above the roofs: to regard Paris in a distance?\\" This is a remarkable metaphor: visually strong - alike the \\"LIFE-MELODY\\", giving a hint to the long time memory of ears ...ly strong - alike the \\"LIFE-MELODY\\", giving a hint to the long time memory of ears ...	2005-08-25
US	46396923	R2RWIV83WDYAVZ	2070743829	141732386	Cioran, l'hérétique (French Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...	\\"The principal defect of philosophy lies in the fact that academic philosophy is too bearable...\\" wrote Cioran (too bitterly for the general main stream); born 1911 in Romania, died 1995 in Paris: these two basic data of the CIORAN-curriculum vitae already are marking the subtle personal traumata: being divided by two very different cultural identities. Still loving Romania but emigrated and living safely in France, however not willing to integrate with French society he remained stateless not accepting any national identity. Obstinate he refused to receive the highest literary awards of his host country. Lost in exile - this was the everlasting frame of his mind. In an enthusiastic manner in his early years he engaged himself politically defending his Romania. Later on he was ashamed of such affectations and classified such poses as delirium, \\"kitsch\\", scrupulousness. High-skeptically he wrote, referring to the possibility of finding the real truth: \\"After all I know, that all these ideas and dogmatic thoughts are wrong and absurd. At last only human beings remain. And they are what they are. I am cured of the illness, to follow any ideology.\\" Cioran liked characters as Nietzsche, Beethoven, Luther, Rousseau: He adored their individual strength to resist against the surrounding societies - he loved the stubbornness of these famous thinkers - though sometimes obstinacy seemed to be a subject for psychiatrists. During all his life in exile the backbone of his Romanian identity was broken and Cioran did not allow himself to use Romanian language any more (remember Elias Canetti and his metaphor of the \\"robbed tongue\\" and the phenomenon of hating fragments of the own identity and history). Cioran was attracted by the chronic despair of Soeren Kierkegaard and the nihilism of Friedrich Nietzsche. His university diploma he wrote about the thesis of the \\"Elan Vital\\" in the writings of the French existence-philosopher Henri Bergson. \\"Elan Vital\\" for Cioran indeed did not mean cheerfulness - but alike an Arthur Schopenhauer or an Ambrose Bierce, filled with a badly mixture of too much brain and bile, he enjoyed to produce cool, relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...an cheerfulness - but alike an Arthur Schopenhauer or an Ambrose Bierce, filled with a badly mixture of too much brain and bile, he enjoyed to produce cool, relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...	2005-08-22
US	46396923	R3GI0G3CEWVN6Y	1559704616	542287822	Anathemas and Admirations	Books	5	6	9	N	N	relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...	\\"The principal defect of philosophy lies in the fact that academic philosophy is too bearable...\\" wrote Cioran (too bitterly for the general main stream); born 1911 in Romania, died 1995 in Paris: these two basic data of the CIORAN-curriculum vitae already are marking the subtle personal traumata: being divided by two very different cultural identities. Still loving Romania but emigrated and living safely in France, however not willing to integrate with French society he remained stateless not accepting any national identity. Obstinate he refused to receive the highest literary awards of his host country. Lost in exile - this was the everlasting frame of his mind. In an enthusiastic manner in his early years he engaged himself politically defending his Romania. Later on he was ashamed of such affectations and classified such poses as delirium, \\"kitsch\\", scrupulousness. High-skeptically he wrote, referring to the possibility of finding the real truth: \\"After all I know, that all these ideas and dogmatic thoughts are wrong and absurd. At last only human beings remain. And they are what they are. I am cured of the illness, to follow any ideology.\\" Cioran liked characters as Nietzsche, Beethoven, Luther, Rousseau: He adored their individual strength to resist against the surrounding societies - he loved the stubbornness of these famous thinkers - though sometimes obstinacy seemed to be a subject for psychiatrists. During all his life in exile the backbone of his Romanian identity was broken and Cioran did not allow himself to use Romanian language any more (remember Elias Canetti and his metaphor of the \\"robbed tongue\\" and the phenomenon of hating fragments of the own identity and history). Cioran was attracted by the chronic despair of Soeren Kierkegaard and the nihilism of Friedrich Nietzsche. His university diploma he wrote about the thesis of the \\"Elan Vital\\" in the writings of the French existence-philosopher Henri Bergson. \\"Elan Vital\\" for Cioran indeed did not mean cheerfulness - but alike an Arthur Schopenhauer or an Ambrose Bierce, filled with a badly mixture of too much brain and bile, he enjoyed to produce cool, relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...an cheerfulness - but alike an Arthur Schopenhauer or an Ambrose Bierce, filled with a badly mixture of too much brain and bile, he enjoyed to produce cool, relaxed and slyly cynical aphorisms ...  <br />	2005-08-22
US	46396923	RGY18LROM9KWZ	0940322501	81797492	The Waste Books (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	20	29	N	N	A philosopher with esprit ...	&quot;The American who first discovered Columbus made a bad discovery.&quot; This is a cynic notation considering the fate of the Red Indians. &quot;A handful of soldiers is always better than a mouthful of arguments...&quot; sounds like George W. Bush - but is written down by Professor (not Condoleezza Rice), by Professor Georg Christoph Lichtenberg, 1742-1799. He has been a philosopher, but his writing-style was more comfortable to any reader, than the work of the other German genius of that time: Immanuel Kant (1724-1804). Lichtenberg loved the ideas of the French Enlightenment and he tried to explain the ideas of empiric science with humor. He was critical against Christian dogmatics. He once shortly noted: &quot;An Amen face.&quot; Or longer: &quot;Nothing offers me such clear proof of how things stand in the world of learning than the circumstance that Spinoza was for so long regarded as an evil, worthless person and his opinions as dangerous.&quot; Lichtenberg has been a philosopher - but writing with esprit. If you can tolerate his bile, buy his book: &quot;Who has two pairs of trousers turn one of them into cash and purchase this book.&quot; But bear in mind: &quot;A book is a mirror: if an ape looks into it, - an apostle is unlikely to look out!&quot;	2005-08-20
US	46396923	R1XROPFEF4PPS6	0940322501	81797492	The Waste Books (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	5	11	N	N	A philosopher with esprit ...	\\"The American who first discovered Columbus made a bad discovery.\\" This is a cynic notation considering the fate of the Red Indians. \\"A handful of soldiers is always better than a mouthful of arguments...\\" sounds like George W. Bush - but is written down by Professor (not Condoleezza Rice), by Professor Georg Christoph Lichtenberg, 1742-1799. He has been a philosopher, but his writing-style was more comfortable to any reader, than the work of the other German genius of that time: Immanuel Kant (1724-1804). Lichtenberg loved the ideas of the French Enlightenment and he tried to explain the ideas of empiric science with humor. He was critical against Christian dogmatics. He once shortly noted: \\"An Amen face.\\" Or longer: \\"Nothing offers me such clear proof of how things stand in the world of learning than the circumstance that Spinoza was for so long regarded as an evil, worthless person and his opinions as dangerous.\\" Lichtenberg has been a philosopher - but writing with esprit. If you can tolerate his bile, buy his book: \\"Who has two pairs of trousers turn one of them into cash and purchase this book.\\" But bear in mind: \\"A book is a mirror: if an ape looks into it, - an apostle is unlikely to look out!\\"	2005-08-20
US	46396923	R2DVKQTI6YRLTF	0140442278	708519048	Essays and Aphorisms (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	with persistance and arrogance, brain and bile ...	Schopenhauer's father committed suicide. Son Arthur had been very devoted to his father Heinrich Floris. The high-sensitive son could not deal with the fact, that his mother Johanna had preferred to talk with Goethe in her Weimar Literary Salon instead of helping her husband, getting more and more depressed as a salesman in Hamburg. A typical, later on dialogue between mother (at that time a famous novelist) and son, fresh university lecturer: \\"One still will read my writings, at a time, when your books are out of stock and only one copy can be found in a lumber-room.\\" Mother thereupon sneering: \\"The whole, complete edition of your writings, my son, still will be waiting to get an order to be shipped...\\" (the reviewer fears that his own frizztext-book might have to suffer the same fate). \\"The World as Will\\", as too much inconsiderate will-to-live - in such a way Schopenhauer (February 22, 1788 - September 21, 1860) experienced the whole human being. With persistance and arrogance, with brain and bile, suffering and bitterly, but with sensitivity and empathy as well he wrote - trying not to get overwhelmed by disgust. He had a deep neurotic aversion against women (surely involved by his mother). Once he pushed in anger his charwoman down the stairs backwards. But this female individual offered resistance very intellectually: She successful called a judge and Schopenhauer was sentenced, to pay a pension to her - all her life long. But exactly this evil bile encouraged him, on the other hand, to fight against mother Johanna and Goethe, against Hegel and diverse money-lenders. However just opposite to his choleric, hot-tempered way of life, his philosophical theory proclaimed to be calm as a Buddha. He adored Eastern Vedic (Buddhist) Scriptures. He adored enjoying art as a way out of the more mediocre and less passionate masses. The summary of his philosophy finally is the reference to the noblesse to demand nothing; this German philosopher's hope is, that \\"willing\\" might be silenced. 150 years and some wars later we all should agree. \\"To be vulgar is nothing else than giving the leading role in our consciousness to the will and not to the cognition.\\" This tiny book is still able to help today's readers to climb not a meditative, but a thoughtful level. And still it is not out of stock in the most nations ...ht be silenced. 150 years and some wars later we all should agree. \\"To be vulgar is nothing else than giving the leading role in our consciousness to the will and not to the cognition.\\" This tiny book is still able to help today's readers to climb not a meditative, but a thoughtful level. And still it is not out of stock in the most nations ...	2005-08-19
US	46396923	RCILYR8CW2LJX	0300102429	187832994	Karl Jaspers: A Biography--Navigations in Truth	Books	5	8	11	N	N	how to live in dignity ...	Already as a child, German philosopher Karl Jaspers (1883-1969) suffered under bronchiktasis and an accompanying heart insufficiency, which was classified as incurable and life-shortening. the fear to die early pushed him to live concentrated and not to waste any time. Being exhausted very soon, throughout his life he was forced to work lying horizontal on a divan. His daily creative working periods (of reading and writing) had been very short, so he was obliged to budget his targets carefully. \\"A man will be, what he will be, via the things, he has chosen for his own affair...\\" was the way, he programmed himself. \\"The minimum of being self-determinate is associated with the joy to work. without that, everyone will get paralyzed. Therefore to save the joy of working is the main problem in the technical world. Assigned work mostly is a work, which separates being a human and being a worker. But the duties of a physician, teacher, minister etc. cannot not be technically rationalized, because they depend on vital existence ...\\" Jaspers noted in his tiny but important book \\"The Mental Situation Of Our Age\\". Beginning as psychiatrist (among other things with the fundamental work \\"PSYCHOLOGY of the WORLD VIEWS\\") he extended his horizon of views to a stable existence-philosophical theory, which at first united him with the academic colleague Martin Heidegger, then however, ethical standardizes taking seriously, had to lead him away from this Nazi-collaborator. Jaspers wrote after the end of WWII to the American Military Government in Germany: \\"Heidegger's kind of thinking appears to me unfreely, dictatorial, without any sense for communication. Nowadays it would (practiced at universities) have a fatal effect ...\\". Added to the lifelong illness of Jaspers was the threat by the Third Reich. Jaspers' woman was Jewess. The married couple during the Nazi-era always carried in their pockets cyanide-capsules, to be faster, if Gestapo would try to arrest them. \\"No longer able tocontinue the fight, suicide becomes more and more fascinating. It seems to be the last moral effort of autonomous humans. To end voluntary is like coming home to oneself... \\" Jaspers wrote in those dark days. \\"The rule of the apparatus favors humans, who live contemplativelessly without any leisure , bedeviled sleeplessly by their wishes of climbing up the social ladders. It is required to be skilful, slippery, oily. You have to become beloved, you must ingratiate on everyone with a clever fuss of persuading and captivating, you have to become zealous, indispensable, you have to be silent, insidious, you have to present a modest gesture, you have to work only to please your chief, you never are allowed to show any independence against a superior ...\\". Jaspers analyzed the Hitler-Germany and Martin Heidegger, the post war German society and \\"The Question of German Guilt\\" - but in the center he defined how to live with dignity - in any time...	2005-08-18
US	46396923	R2IJGFLJQDN6IZ	0300102429	187832994	Karl Jaspers: A Biography--Navigations in Truth	Books	5	2	4	N	N	how to live in dignity ...	Already as a child, German philosopher Karl Jaspers (1883-1969) suffered under bronchiktasis and an accompanying heart insufficiency, which was classified as incurable and life-shortening. the fear to die early pushed him to live concentrated and not to waste any time. Being exhausted very soon, throughout his life he was forced to work lying horizontal on a divan. His daily creative working periods (of reading and writing) had been very short, so he was obliged to budget his targets carefully. \\"A man will be, what he will be, via the things, he has chosen for his own affair...\\" was the way, he programmed himself. \\"The minimum of being self-determinate is associated with the joy to work. without that, everyone will get paralyzed. Therefore to save the joy of working is the main problem in the technical world. Assigned work mostly is a work, which separates being a human and being a worker. But the duties of a physician, teacher, minister etc. cannot not be technically rationalized, because they depend on vital existence ...\\" Jaspers noted in his tiny but important book \\"The Mental Situation Of Our Age\\". Beginning as psychiatrist (among other things with the fundamental work \\"Psychology of the World Views\\") he extended his horizon of views to a stable existence-philosophical theory, which at first united him with the academic colleague Martin Heidegger, then however, ethical standardizes taking seriously, had to lead him away from this Nazi-collaborator. Jaspers wrote after the end of WWII to the American Military Government in Germany: \\"Heidegger's kind of thinking appears to me unfreely, dictatorial, without any sense for communication. Nowadays it would (practiced at universities) have a fatal effect ...\\". Added to the lifelong illness of Jaspers was the threat by the Third Reich. Jaspers' woman was Jewess. The married couple during the Nazi-era always carried in their pockets cyanide-capsules, to be faster, if Gestapo would try to arrest them. \\"No longer able to continue the fight, suicide becomes more and more fascinating. It seems to be the last moral effort of autonomous humans. To end voluntary is like coming home to oneself... \\" Jaspers wrote in those dark days. \\"The rule of the apparatus favors humans, who live contemplativelessly without any leisure , bedeviled sleeplessly by their wishes of climbing up the social ladders. It is required to be skilful, slippery, oily. You have to become beloved, you must ingratiate on everyone with a clever fuss of persuading and captivating, you have to become zealous, indispensable, you have to be silent, insidious, you have to present a modest gesture, you have to work only to please your chief, you never are allowed to show any independence against a superior ...\\". Jaspers analyzed the Hitler-Germany and Martin Heidegger, the post war German society and \\"The Question of German Guilt\\" - but in the center he defined how to live with dignity - in any time...continue the fight, suicide becomes more and more fascinating. It seems to be the last moral effort of autonomous humans. To end voluntary is like coming home to oneself... \\" Jaspers wrote in those dark days. \\"The rule of the apparatus favors humans, who live contemplativelessly without any leisure , bedeviled sleeplessly by their wishes of climbing up the social ladders. It is required to be skilful, slippery, oily. You have to become beloved, you must ingratiate on everyone with a clever fuss of persuading and captivating, you have to become zealous, indispensable, you have to be silent, insidious, you have to present a modest gesture, you have to work only to please your chief, you never are allowed to show any independence against a superior ...\\". Jaspers analyzed the Hitler-Germany and Martin Heidegger, the post war German society and \\"The Question of German Guilt\\" - but in the center he defined how to live with dignity - in any time...	2005-08-18
US	46396923	R18QJ5QZTVDU4R	0971345961	8314239	Epicurus: His Continuing Influence and Contemporary Relevance	Books	5	14	27	N	N	you will not get seven virgins after your death ...	It is the shabby trade of the denominations and religion bureaucracies, that they (with infiltrated awe for God and the beyond) again and again try to stir up and bedevil naiv humans: Epicurus (341 - 270 BC) wanted to cut those puppet works. In the today's fundamentalist meets (\\"in the sky\\", the Taliban suicide assassins are instructed (swindled), \\"you will get seven virgins for reward\\") religious stir-up-neighborhoods and other morasses know how to produce foolish terrorists. The scholars barely can be waiting to enter the promised life after death. \\"The Clash Of The Civilizations\\" (Samuel P. Huntington) since September 11 made a worse climax, 2300 years after Epicurus - and this completely uninfluenced by any realizations of Greek philosophy. One could generally doubt, if philosophy is able at all, to clear up brains. Fortunately in parts of Western cultures and counter-cultures however fragments of Epicureanism, Skepticism and Stoicism are still living on. Epicurus (with honorable persistence) tried to weaken the fear of Gods and their punishment-actions and the awe concerning the certain coming death (all animals fate) - and on the other hand he recommended to keep a distance to the political scene (which too often is involved into corruption or riot, filled with hollow slogans or hate-sermons). He prefered not to work on public places but only in his lovely garden, talking to a handful of well-known friends. This conception requires to proof not only the habits of a sensible life-style but more deeper the patterns of personal identity and the consciousness of using time. \\"A free live is not able to acquire much money , because this is not easy to get without being serviceable to the rich or the mediocre people ...\\" Epicurus wrote - and he is not frightened at the opulence deficit. \\"The voice of our bodies: do not be hungry, thirsty, cold!\\" Indeed, some non-European, i.e. African nations are demonstrating persistently to the rest of the world, how to overcome with low costs - without loosing dignity. Today, an Epicurean is thought of as a exhausted wine-sipping decadent, practicing unalloyed hedonism and wild orgies, sex and drugs and rock and roll. This is completely wrong. Pleasure is defined by Epicurus as the avoidance of pain and passion, of mania and addiction, is defined as a stabilization of emotions. Epicurus preached as a goal of our mortal life to minimize our excitements and anxieties, dependencies and crazes. Not an everlasting carnival was intended, but calmness as a lifestyle. Of course not a cramped indigence and having of no wants combined with self-punishment and nunful, self-indebted hate-the-own-body-attitude. Few philosophers have been more maligned and underappreciated. Epicurus still delivers important annotations. A last one: \\"You must comprehend the fact, that a long and a short statement are able to reach the same aim.\\" I hope so.th low costs - without loosing dignity. Today, an Epicurean is thought of as a exhausted wine-sipping decadent, practicing unalloyed hedonism and wild orgies, sex and drugs and rock and roll. This is completely wrong. Pleasure is defined by Epicurus as the avoidance of pain and passion, of mania and addiction, is defined as a stabilization of emotions. Epicurus preached as a goal of our mortal life to minimize our excitements and anxieties, dependencies and crazes. Not an everlasting carnival was intended, but calmness as a lifestyle. Of course not a cramped indigence and having of no wants combined with self-punishment and nunful, self-indebted hate-the-own-body-attitude. Few philosophers have been more maligned and underappreciated. Epicurus still delivers important annotations. A last one: \\"You must comprehend the fact, that a long and a short statement are able to reach the same aim.\\" I hope so.	2005-08-17
US	46396923	R1NFX8U8Q2296K	0688026214	525450437	Roman	Books	5	13	16	N	N	a sinner and a genius ...	Roman Polanski, born on august 18, 1933, has written a fascinating autobiography. He is a sinner and a genius, a chaotic man and a passionate, he is a machismo and a vulnerable human being, he overcame the WWII, the Polish ghettos and the Holocaust as a resilient child and he lost his wife Sharon Tate and an unborn child in 1969 by the Manson Group massacre, and on the other hand he overcame (as an adult) a special pattern of machismo-self-destruction (with 13 year old girl accusing him of sexual contact). He had lived a lousy life in Nazi-surpressed Polish ghettos and he had lived with too much pride and arrogance in Hollywood, he was arrested in the United States and nevertheless now he releases movies in Paris (presently married with French actress Emmanuelle Seigner). He is a gifted filmmaker and indeed: a writer, better than any crime-author I know; his book, published in 1984, is not a larmoyant, self-pitiful autobiography alike 1001 others - it is an absorbing story about a personality-mixture-hybrid of a Robin Hood mixed with Mac Beth, an Idi Amin mixed with a Mother Theresa, it is the story of \\"Roman\\" P., who started his life 1933 in Paris as \\"Raymond\\" P.; the first sentence of his autobiography: \\"For as far back as I can remember, the line between fantasy and reality has been hopelessly blurred.\\" That became his helping trick to survive some struggles and tragedies, downfalls and comebacks ...	2005-08-16
US	46396923	R2PQJKLJ5E0JT8	0789302403	822254830	Timeless New York: A Literary and Photographic Tribute	Books	4	0	0	N	N	we don't need houses to present a spirit ...	Brooklyn Bridge on a snowy winter morning or a winter evening in Greenwich Village, where two lovers, standing with their cold feet in the snow, are kissing (a variant of the famous picture titled THE KISS by french photographer Robert Doisneau): Paul Coughlin, living in New York, gave a subtle tribute to his hometown. Published 1998, of course you find \\"these monolithic towers, completed in 1977 (architecture Minoru Yamasaki) at an cost of 700 million dollars... In 1974 French acrobat Philippe Petit performed a tightrope walk between the tops of the two towers...\\" We know, that is history, at least since 9/11/2001. The sepia-toned photographs of the book remember, that something will overcome: the quiet neighborhoods and parks, granting time to rest and have a small talk, the busy streets filled with people representing the whole world, using 80 languages and more. Of course we don't need houses to present a spirit; this tiny book will do the same ...	2005-08-14
US	46396923	R3R9VVZ26E9AVK	0060933887	334558087	The Pope and the Heretic: The True Story of Giordano Bruno, the Man Who Dared to Defy the Roman Inquisition	Books	4	5	9	N	N	religion and burning people ...	It is strange, that religion and burning in the history of mankind frequently lie together so near: momentarily the assassination attempts of Islamic fundamentalists in New York, London, Madrid and elsewhere, or (on the other hand) the million humans, who became victims of the Inquisition of the catholic church in the Middle Ages. Giordano Bruno has been one of the most famous mourners. Because he questioned the Ptolomaei conception of the world of an earth, around which everything circles, and because he tried to replace the earth-centric-theory by an analysis, which postulated a lot of moving solar systems (plausibly spoken from today's view), in which there is no hierarchical order, - therefore he had to accept more and more furious attempts against his person, which wanted to force his obedience. Apparently unteachable he classified the subject not as passive nullity directed of God, but as active, self-constructing substance. The theories of the Vatican of the case of sin and of the predetermination of the fate Giordano Bruno rejected as life-strange. &quot;The general opinion is not always the perfect truth...&quot; Giordano Bruno today is still quoted. Such remarks produced expensive, bitter consequences: On 17 February 1600 he publicly was burned on the Campo di Fiori in Rome after eight years torture and dungeon detention. Hundreds of years the burning of disbelieving people seemed to be the major task of the Christian denomination. However today the Pope-administration gradually makes some steps backwards, remorseful: On February 18, in the year 2000, cardinal Angelo Sodano, the undersecretary of state of the Vatican, expressed the &quot;deep regret&quot; of the catholic church (according to ZENITH NEWS AGENCY with regard to the death sentence against Giordano Bruno) in a letter to the participants of a congress in Napoli, which took place for the memory of this Italian philosopher in the local theological faculty 2000. It was a &quot;terrible death&quot;, &quot;a sad episode in newer Christian history&quot;. Respect considering the dignity and the conscience of humans, who look persistently for the truth: this is a level, in the present not yet all countries, confessions or population circles succeed to manage. The book of the British science journalist Michael White (&quot;Science editor of British GQ Magazine&quot;) was criticized by some reviewers, because it has been written in a teenager-language, less scientific, more thrilling like an adventure-story. But on the other hand it is an easily reading, you can practice before you will fall asleep. Short before snoring you can brood about the fact, that religion (connected with the aim to burn people of &quot;wrong&quot; confession) did not yet disappear as a pattern of acting among the earth inhabitants 400 years later...&quot;a sad episode in newer Christian history&quot;. Respect considering the dignity and the conscience of humans, who look persistently for the truth: this is a level, in the present not yet all countries, confessions or population circles succeed to manage. The book of the British science journalist Michael White (&quot;Science editor of British GQ Magazine&quot;) was criticized by some reviewers, because it has been written in a teenager-language, less scientific, more thrilling like an adventure-story. But on the other hand it is an easily reading, you can practice before you will fall asleep. Short before snoring you can brood about the fact, that religion (connected with the aim to burn people of &quot;wrong&quot; confession) did not yet disappear as a pattern of acting among the earth inhabitants 400 years later...	2005-08-13
US	46396923	R2KCGX0RWKF4MN	0860917045	163867352	Minima Moralia: Reflections From Damaged Life	Books	5	23	25	N	N	enter an inspiring galaxy of ideas ...	Adorno, at first grown up upper-class-protected, became acquainted with the horror only outside the family (his mother was a classical musician). Outside: on the school-yards, pursued and pushed by his peer group, because he always was teacher's darling. Outside: being a Jew walking on Nazi-streets of a pre-Hitler Germany with subtle racial discrimination. They soon would build Auschwitz. The same pattern, which at first as the contempt of mediocre school-gangs came into much too close contact to Adorno, secondly reached more painful intensity in the shape of the ideological constructions and daily realities of the National Socialism in the Third Reich. Though no one had a presentiment of the coming Holocaust, Adorno told, that the exploding of inhumanity did not astound him, after all that he had to suffer in the years before. Adorno fled to the U.S. for political reasons and because his father had Jewish roots. He worked in New York in the \\"Institute for Social Research\\". After exile (in the 1950s) Adorno returned to Frankfurt. He soon became a hero of the student revolts of 1968, but unfortunately students prefered a style of discussion and acting (Adorno's lectures were disrupted by bare breast girls), - a style of discussion and acting, which the (latent conservative) upper-class child Theodor Wiesengrund Adorno (called \\"Teddy\\" by the students) disliked in the beginning, in the middle and at the end of his life. His literary and philosophical masterpiece MINIMA MORALIA however is a testament of a razor-sharp philosophical mind, using an &eacute;litist, brilliantly aphoristic language. He continually followed the principle, that the only method to write nowadays is an essayistic, non-systematic, code word analyzing method, considering the fact, that big mega-philosophies (fascism, marxism ...) always tumble down after a while or seep silently, trickle away by the working process of dialectic thinkers. Since the attack against the World Trade Center in New York the understanding grows, that living in bondage with a false philosophy or a fundamentalist religion or an impudence nation (sometimes difficult to decide) nearly inevitably leads into a catastrophe. It is a maybe confusing but easily remembered coincidence, that Adorno's birthday is on a \\"September Eleven\\" (9/11/1903), duplicating the hint at the warning that ideological instigation gives rise to an escalation of terrible disasters. Like a Noam Chomsky or a grandchild of Nietzsche, Marx and Kierkegaard this German philosopher, co-founder of the so-called \\"Frankfurter Schule\\", provides with ample food for thought with his dense, challenging prose. But on the other hand he very lowly uses language as a poet, describing daily life and it's false consciousness: leading the view to Proust or Sigmund Freud, to \\"Golden Gate\\" or \\"Tough Babies\\", to cats or mammoths, to marriage and divorce, to \\"L 'inutile beaut&eacute;\\" or \\"Wishful Thinking\\", to \\"Il servo padrone\\" and \\"They, the people\\": if you decide to read Adorno, you will forget the present world of violence and you will enter an inspiring galaxy of ideas. The modesty of Adorno's working method, trying to convince linguistically only by small artful steps, this could be a comfort-rich meditation assistance for those, who live in rough political and urban scenes ...rstanding grows, that living in bondage with a false philosophy or a fundamentalist religion or an impudence nation (sometimes difficult to decide) nearly inevitably leads into a catastrophe. It is a maybe confusing but easily remembered coincidence, that Adorno's birthday is on a \\"September Eleven\\" (9/11/1903), duplicating the hint at the warning that ideological instigation gives rise to an escalation of terrible disasters. Like a Noam Chomsky or a grandchild of Nietzsche, Marx and Kierkegaard this German philosopher, co-founder of the so-called \\"Frankfurter Schule\\", provides with ample food for thought with his dense, challenging prose. But on the other hand he very lowly uses language as a poet, describing daily life and it's false consciousness: leading the view to Proust or Sigmund Freud, to \\"Golden Gate\\" or \\"Tough Babies\\", to cats or mammoths, to marriage and divorce, to \\"L 'inutile beaut\\" or \\"Wishful Thinking\\", to \\"Il servo padrone\\" and \\"They, the people\\": if you decide to read Adorno, you will forget the present world of violence and you will enter an inspiring galaxy of ideas. The modesty of Adorno's working method, trying to convince linguistically only by small artful steps, this could be a comfort-rich meditation assistance for those, who live in rough political and urban scenes ...	2005-08-08
US	46396923	R2T8FJF0N26XVA	069109165X	396640457	Søren Kierkegaard: A Biography	Books	5	2	11	N	N	excellent starter of a modern way of feeling ...	The father of existentialism, S&ouml;ren Kierkegaard, had demanded (for his part back-reminding of Socrates), to try it nevertheless once with irony. Kierkegaard experimented to realize a clearly more individual life concept than it came (at that time) into the horizon of the orthodox piety or devotion to the state or the usual marriage loyalty. He used philosophical statements, long literature tours and risky own-life entanglements to develop his thoughts. ANTI-CLERICAL: It has been told, that Kierkegaard admired a Danish clergyman, who shouted to his (a little bit too much affected)  congregation: \\"do not cry, dear children, - it could be lied everything!\\" Another anti-clerical statement of S.K.: \\"You cannot live on nothing, it is often told, particularly of ministers and precisely the clergymen succeed this feat:  not at all there is any Christianity - and they live nevertheless on it.\\" This is Kierkegaard's typical method of irony, a method of producing distance against the usual social milieu. IRONY: \\"The Concept of Irony, with Continual Reference to Socrates\\" was the title of Kierkegaard's dissertation (1841), no, it had not this title, but: \\"Om Begrebet Ironi med Stadigt Hensyn til Socrates...\\"  DECONSTRUCTION: The XV. and last thesis read: \\"ut a dubitatione philosophia, sic ab ironia vita digna, quae humana vocetur, incipit.\\"  \\"Just like philosophy begins with the doubt, equally live (an existence, you can call dignified) begins with the irony.\\" French philosophers like Jacques Derrida and other deconstructionists have claimed Kierkegaard as their hero. DOGMATISM: Formal, turgid style was an atrocity for Kierkegaard, neither it was placed in a sermon by Christian dogmatics nor in state philosophy - as declaimed by the German Georg W.F. Hegel. Kierkegaard, listening in Berlin to his philosophy, hated to be a \\"Hegelian fool.\\" He wrote: \\"A passionate, tumultuous time will drag down everything. However a reflecting time will transform the expression of force into a dialectic feat: let exist everything, but cunningly deprive everything of its significance.\\" Only in 20th century developed the large systems, Marxism, Fascism, which suppressed the individual and made personal statements suspicious. Kierkegaard a hundred years before brought the idea into the daily consciousness of humans, that the individual has the right to be a censorship instance against church, state, ordered political correctness. DON JUAN: This sort of extreme individualism hindered Kierkegaard's sexuality. He feared to make solid obligations with his fianc&eacute;e Regine Olsen. Instead he liked to read the story of Don Juan - and wrote the famous \\"Either-Or\\". Did Kierkegaard visit prostitutes? Biographer Joakim Garff, associate professor at the S&ouml;ren Kierkegaard Research Center at the University of Copenhagen, - he has no chance than to speculate. SIN and ANXIETY: Kierkegaard's father had been an orthodox Christian dogmatist. Apparently too often he made sermons about sin to his son. In \\"The Concept of Anxiety\\" Kierkegaard accepts anxiety (later Heidegger's ANGST in \\"Being and Time\\") as a creative, liberty starting element in every human beings existence. No independence without the deep anxiety, to make all things wrong. The fear of getting punished is the basis of the free will and the power to make decisions nevertheless. Not only modern psychologists have to tell that, giving depressed searchers the strength to go on, in philosophy Nietzsche, struggling against Hegel alike Kierkegaard, had to reach the same level as the Danish thinker. Nietzsche wrote \\"Genealogy of Morals\\", leaving the secure ground of Christianity as well. LITERATURE: \\"Equal a princess in a \\"1001 night\\"-story I saved live by narrating, i.e. by producing dazzling literary work. Tremendous heavy melancholy, inside suffer, everything I could master - if I was allowed to produce. Ill treatment, abuse, which would have made another unproductive - these things made me only more productively...\\" K. noted, who experienced himself maybe more as poet than as philosopher. JOURNALISM: His horror of the compelling journalism, which multiplied the consent of all meaning, - this fright brought him to write: \\"The multitude of crowd is the untruth.\\" \\"To draw the attention to the category of the individual, that is the main achievement and significance of my lifelong work. I recognized it as my task to make attentive on it.\\" Kierkegaard was encouraged enough, to throw himself back to a most subjective, occasionally despairing lonely sort of giving one's opinion, naturally not accompanied by much external applause. In the contrary: He had some disastrous sparring with his critics, especially with the journalists and cartoonists working for the Copenhagen newspaper \\"The Corsair.\\" How to make irony on this topic? Kierkegaard wrote: \\"As perhaps some thing was lost, because an assisting world was missing, then on the other hand some thing was spoiled, because the whole world was allowed to help.\\" MONEY: Kierkegaard died aged 42, exactly in the same moment, as the money which he inherited from his father was used up. His courageous irony died in the nervous run of his relatively short life, defeated by an unfortunately much bigger, always persistent anxiety. He certainly was not a man of action like Hemingway. But he was a moving and thought provoking writer, an excellent starter of a modern way of feeling, reacting and ideological whistleblowing ...noted, who experienced himself maybe more as poet than as philosopher. JOURNALISM: His horror of the compelling journalism, which multiplied the consent of all meaning, - this fright brought him to write: \\"The multitude of crowd is the untruth.\\" \\"To draw the attention to the category of the individual, that is the main achievement and significance of my lifelong work. I recognized it as my task to make attentive on it.\\" Kierkegaard was encouraged enough, to throw himself back to a most subjective, occasionally despairing lonely sort of giving one's opinion, naturally not accompanied by much external applause. In the contrary: He had some disastrous sparring with his critics, especially with the journalists and cartoonists working for the Copenhagen newspaper \\"The Corsair.\\" How to make irony on this topic? Kierkegaard wrote: \\"As perhaps some thing was lost, because an assisting world was missing, then on the other hand some thing was spoiled, because the whole world was allowed to help.\\" MONEY: Kierkegaard died aged 42, exactly in the same moment, as the money which he inherited from his father was used up. His courageous irony died in the nervous run of his relatively short life, defeated by an unfortunately much bigger, always persistent anxiety. He certainly was not a man of action like Hemingway. But he was a moving and thought provoking writer, an excellent starter of a modern way of feeling, reacting and ideological whistleblowing ... <br /> <br />	2005-08-01
US	46396923	R1W4K0DCO14VID	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Watch the movie / DVD !!!	Annie Proulx, she has a very much endowed vein for fine-intimately spoken humor. Her novel SHIPPING NEWS won the Pulitzer Prize. The Swedish director Lasse Hallstr&ouml;m (&quot;The Cider House Rules&quot;, &quot;What's eating Gilbert Grape&quot; and &quot;Chocolat&quot;) brought it full of genius to screen. It is a MUST to see the scene, where the ancestors of Quoyle (Kevin Spacey) are pulling by rope their house across the ice. The pictures shot on location (Killick-Claw, a Newfoundland harbor town) are simply wonderful. But at first you have to endure the coming in-chapter: a bad life in New York, where Quoyle is overwhelmed by hussy type Petal (Cate Blanchett), a wild, hot-blooded woman, wearing a ton of make-up and short rubber mini-skirts, always looking for excitement with good time guys and honky-tonks, by whom Quoyle has a child, Bunny. Petal soon dies in a car crash with one of her boyfriends, short after Bunny was sold by her to a black-market child adoption ring for six thousand dollars. Moreover Quoyle's parents commit suicide. In this terrible situation (daughter Bunny is found by police) Aunt Agnes Hamm (Judi Dench) appears and Quoyle is convinced by her to move to their ancestral home on the Newfoundland coast. Quoyle takes a job as a reporter for the local newspaper The Gammy Bird and starts to rebuild his life, though the weight of an awful past bears down. Encouraged by the publisher Jack Buggit (Scott Glenn) and by Wavey Prowse (Julianne Moore), the owner of a day care center, Quoyle has to change his loser-life fighting against his demons and the demons of his ancestors. Also Aunt Angie or the &quot;widow&quot; Wavey have their nightmares, but together they get all problems under control. For example the mobbing of an oil-tanker-adoring journalist (Pete Postlethwaite) or getting overboard without a life-belt or losing the house tethered on a storm-wracked cliff during a heavy, cathartic storm. (And at the side there is a romance between Quoyle's daughter Bunny and Moore's son, who suffered brain damage during birth.) Spacey and Moore are wonderful as they, at her lowest point, try to overcome their damaged hearts and love once more. So they all recover from the terrors of their past lives, especially Quoyle's transformation from passive victim into a whole human being is heart-felt. It is good to see films like that, just a shame there is not more.hter Bunny and Moore's son, who suffered brain damage during birth.) Spacey and Moore are wonderful as they, at her lowest point, try to overcome their damaged hearts and love once more. So they all recover from the terrors of their past lives, especially Quoyle's transformation from passive victim into a whole human being is heart-felt. It is good to see films like that, just a shame there is not more.	2005-07-29
US	46396923	R8YMTS661CY36	0275962172	561219116	Wernher von Braun: The Man Who Sold the Moon	Books	5	5	11	N	N	a drive to achieve goals at almost any price	Wernher von Braun (March 23 1912 - June 16 1977) is a two-sided problem for any writer. First, we know, he developed as a NASA-genius the Redstone rocket that placed Alan Shepard in suborbital flight in May 1961. Then he produced the great Saturn rockets that so successfully launched the U.S. manned flights to the Moon. But on the other hand over 5,000 of his V-2s were fired on Britain (V-2 for \\"Vergeltungswaffe 2\\", meaning \\"retaliation weapon 2\\"; a name invented by Josef Goebbels). These Nazi-rockets killed 2,724 people and badly injured 6,000. Moreover he was a major in the Nazi SS and one of Hitler's elite. Von Braun supervised the rocket's construction at the Nazis' Mittelwerk factory, which used slave labor from the nearby Dora concentration camp. In a letter to Mittelwerk's production manager, von Braun tells how he himself went to the notorious Buchenwald camp to arrange for the transport of more prisoners to Mittelwerk. At least 700 of them later died there. Survivors of the \\"hell of DORA\\" reported of burning corpse mountains, torture and for deterrence hanged prisoners at cranes. Dutch Sources report of 20.000 dead ones. Many slaves were murdered to eliminate any oral historical record of this new strange technology and the Nazi cruelties. Therefore von Braun also was a war criminal, and there must be a discussion of his culpability. The book of Dennis Piskiewicz tries to satisfy both sides of view. Not as satirical as the songwriter and verse-maker Tom Lehrer rhymed 1965 for a BBC television show: \\"'Once the rockets go up, who cares where they come down? / That's not my department', says Wernher von Braun\\". Maybe there are character-similarities (and friendly helping connections) between von Braun and Hitler's architect and Minister of Armaments Albert Speer. Fragment of those ingenious conqueror characters (compare with the Howard Hughes Story THE AVIATOR) often are human abysses like success greed, triumphing and all controlling volitions (Von Braun adored Nietzsche), a drive to achieve goals at almost any price, pathological jealous (remember Eisenhower's personal dislike of the German rocket team). On the other hand: 118 German rocket scientists were brought from Hitler's Third Reich together with von Braun to the USA as part of a military operation called Project Paperclip (helping sift through the Pennemuende documents). Later on von Braun became the director of the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, in Huntsville. He developed the Redstone (used for the Persian Gulf War), Jupiter-C (first satellite, Explorer), Juno and Pershing missiles; he received a mandate to build the giant Saturn V launch vehicle, the superbooster that would propel Americans 1969 to the Moon: Armstrong, Aldrin, Collins. The above mentioned Tom Lehrer criticized: \\"What is it that will make it possible to spend twenty billion dollars of your money to put some clown on the moon?\\" Von Braun diabolically used his rhetorical abilities to set the US senate in fear of the Soviet Union; that blowed up the financing of his rocket-budgets and the Cold War hysteria as well. Once von Braun answered (with regard to the Nazi-system): it has been important, how the golden cow would be milked most successfully. Now, he didn't change his behaviour-patterns in the USA. Very ironically WvB commented: \\"There is just one thing I can promise you about the outer-space program - your tax-dollar will go further.\\" Therefore it is not astonishing, that the last line of Piskiewicz's book is: \\"Sadly, because of his complicity with the Nazi cause, he also sold his soul to reach that goal.\\" The rocket programs (in Germany and the United States as well) ate up scare resources that could have been better invested in other types of social responsibility and political care.ed Nietzsche), a drive to achieve goals at almost any price, pathological jealous (remember Eisenhower's personal dislike of the German rocket team). On the other hand: 118 German rocket scientists were brought from Hitler's Third Reich together with von Braun to the USA as part of a military operation called Project Paperclip (helping sift through the Pennemuende documents). Later on von Braun became the director of the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, in Huntsville. He developed the Redstone (used for the Persian Gulf War), Jupiter-C (first satellite, Explorer), Juno and Pershing missiles; he received a mandate to build the giant Saturn V launch vehicle, the superbooster that would propel Americans 1969 to the Moon: Armstrong, Aldrin, Collins. The above mentioned Tom Lehrer criticized: \\"What is it that will make it possible to spend twenty billion dollars of your money to put some clown on the moon?\\" Von Braun diabolically used his rhetorical abilities to set the US senate in fear of the Soviet Union; that blowed up the financing of his rocket-budgets and the Cold War hysteria as well. Once von Braun answered (with regard to the Nazi-system): it has been important, how the golden cow would be milked most successfully. Now, he didn't change his behaviour-patterns in the USA. Very ironically WvB commented: \\"There is just one thing I can promise you about the outer-space program - your tax-dollar will go further.\\" Therefore it is not astonishing, that the last line of Piskiewicz's book is: \\"Sadly, because of his complicity with the Nazi cause, he also sold his soul to reach that goal.\\" The rocket programs (in Germany and the United States as well) ate up scare resources that could have been better invested in other types of social responsibility and political care.	2005-07-28
US	46396923	R3OXOLUZ3OB2U8	0275962172	561219116	Wernher von Braun: The Man Who Sold the Moon	Books	5	8	14	N	N	a drive to achieve goals at almost any price	Wernher von Braun (March 23 1912 - June 16 1977) is a two-sided problem for any writer. First, we know, he developed as a NASA-genius the Redstone rocket that placed Alan Shepard in suborbital flight in May 1961. Then he produced the great Saturn rockets that so successfully launched the U.S. manned flights to the Moon. But on the other hand over 5,000 of his V-2s were fired on Britain (V-2 for \\"Vergeltungswaffe 2\\", meaning \\"retaliation weapon 2\\"; a name invented by Josef Goebbels). These Nazi-rockets killed 2,724 people and badly injured 6,000. Moreover he was a major in the Nazi SS and one of Hitler's elite. Von Braun supervised the rocket's construction at the Nazis' Mittelwerk factory, which used slave labor from the nearby Dora concentration camp. In a letter to Mittelwerk's production manager, von Braun tells how he himself went to the notorious Buchenwald camp to arrange for the transport of more prisoners to Mittelwerk. At least 700 of them later died there. Survivors of the \\"hell of DORA\\" reported of burning corpse mountains, torture and for deterrence hanged prisoners at cranes. Dutch Sources report of 20.000 dead ones. Many slaves were murdered to eliminate any oral historical record of this new strange technology and the Nazi cruelties. Therefore von Braun also was a war criminal, and there must be a discussion of his culpability. The book of Dennis Piskiewicz tries to satisfy both sides of view. Not as satirical as the songwriter and verse-maker Tom Lehrer rhymed 1965 for a BBC television show: \\"'Once the rockets go up, who cares where they come down? / That's not my department', says Wernher von Braun\\". Maybe there are character-similarities (and friendly helping connections) between von Braun and Hitler's architect and Minister of Armaments Albert Speer. Fragment of those ingenious conqueror characters (compare with the Howard Hughes Story THE AVIATOR) often are human abysses like success greed, triumphing and all controlling volitions (Von Braun adored Nietzsche), a drive to achieve goals at almost any price, pathological jealous (remember Eisenhower's personal dislike of the German rocket team). On the other hand: 118 German rocket scientists were brought from Hitler's Third Reich together with von Braun to the USA as part of a military operation called Project Paperclip (helping sift through the Pennemuende documents). Later on von Braun became the director of the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, in Huntsville. He developed the Redstone (used for the Persian Gulf War), Jupiter-C (first satellite, Explorer), Juno and Pershing missiles; he received a mandate to build the giant Saturn V launch vehicle, the superbooster that would propel Americans 1969 to the Moon: Armstrong, Aldrin, Collins. The above mentioned Tom Lehrer criticized: \\"What is it that will make it possible to spend twenty billion dollars of your money to put some clown on the moon?\\" Von Braun diabolically used his rhetorical abilities to set the US senate in fear of the Soviet Union; that blowed up the financing of his rocket-budgets and the Cold War hysteria as well. Once von Braun answered (with regard to the Nazi-system): it has been important, how the golden cow would be milked most successfully. Now, he didn't change his behaviour-patterns in the USA. Very ironically WvB commented: \\"There is just one thing I can promise you about the outer-space program - your tax-dollar will go further.\\" Therefore it is not astonishing, that the last line of Piskiewiczs book is: \\"Sadly, because of his complicity with the Nazi cause, he also sold his soul to reach that goal.\\" The rocket programs (in Germany and the United States as well) ate up scare resources that could have been better invested in other types of social responsibility and political care.	2005-07-28
US	46396923	RWJZKQS813MRU	1580930433	374334539	I.N.R.I.	Books	5	6	6	N	N	with a sort of esprit ...	Like Renaissance artists who transposed the Jesus-story to Florence, the famous French Photographer Bettina Rheims (* December 18, 1952, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, descendant of Amschel Moses Rothschild) and Serge Bramly (* January 31, 1949, Tunisia, now french philosopher and scientist of art history) tried to ignore the visual traditions, largely that of the Renaissance, willing to create a new modern iconography by turning the subject to photography. A little bit irritating, because the project is fluctuating between serious art and stylistic kitsch, influenced by quotations of art-history and, on the other hand, influenced by modern advertising camerawork. Illustrating the 'Xmas-scene in the stable to Bethlehem they try an optical translation into our present: Jesus is born in the location of an automobile repair workshop illuminated by the pair of headlights of a small transporter van. Instead of a donkey a cat watches the birth, mother Maria sits easily dressed not on straw but on a cement bag, in place of shepherds some garage-mechanics hurried in, who present daisy-flowers to Mary, taking care not to stamp into the puddles of oil on the floor. Of course it is an impressive, strange attack on our figurative conception traditions, which can be forgotten not easily. We see the naked-dancing Salome with the bloody head of the Johannes on the tray; we see Mary Magdalene with legs spread, breasts exposed and stiletto heels; we see locations in the Hospital Cochin, others on the isle Mallorca - and after all (or at first?) we are shocked by Jesus hanging on the cross as a naked young woman, clad only in a loincloth - seen on the book cover; but if you are looking inside, you will notice, that the woman is crucified on the left cross of three, the middle-cross is empty, on the right side you will notice a man. But please consider: Jesus' crucifixion is a symbol for every human being, women inclusive. Nevertheless it provoked just enough outrage in Europe. However I think this project shows an acceptable way of searching for a new kind of modern iconography. Between all infuriated sacrilege-sensitive souls of the political correctness-wing you can find some amusing stories of art-reception: The models, actors and musicians, posing for the great last evening diner-scene - they a few weeks later established a music group with the name \\"12 Apostles\\". Bettina Rheims and Serge Bramly linked gravity and irony, majesty and triviality - maybe this is the sort of esprit, which can only prosper in France ...hink this project shows an acceptable way of searching for a new kind of modern iconography. Between all infuriated sacrilege-sensitive souls of the political correctness-wing you can find some amusing stories of art-reception: The models, actors and musicians, posing for the great last evening diner-scene - they a few weeks later established a music group with the name \\"12 Apostles\\". Bettina Rheims and Serge Bramly linked gravity and irony, majesty and triviality - maybe this is the sort of esprit, which can only prosper in France ...	2005-07-27
US	46396923	R2OP1COXSXD92P	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	5	3	5	N	N	dominated by a military perspective ...	The analysis, published 1993 by Huntington, has refocused attention after the 9/11 Islamic terrorist attacks - and there seems to be no end: Madrid (3/11/04), bombings in Istanbul (11/20/03) and now in London (7/7/05) or the ritual assassination of Dutch filmmaker and writer Theo van Gogh in Amsterdam (11/2/04). And therefore there is no end of tv-discussions how to react. The foreign policy aide to the US State Department speaks of so-called &quot;fault-line-wars&quot;, which exist between the cultures (religions) and will give endlessly smoldering. As examples the hunter Huntington specifies among other things the Gulf War and Afghanistan. The hotspots today are on the fault lines between the religions in Chechnya, the Middle East, Tibet, Sri Lanka, and Bosnia. In Yugoslavia the Serbs where supported by Russian diplomatics while Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Iran and Libya provided arms to the Bosnians. Yugoslavia is an example of what happens to a country where religious factors become the means for identifying oneself. And it could develope worse: Koran-Sura 9, verse 5: &quot;Fight and slay the pagans wherever you find them. And seize them, beleaguer them and lie in wait for them, in every stratagem [of war].&quot; Islam teaches that Muslims must not befriend Jews and Christians. Surat Al-Maidah 5:51 says, &quot;O ye who believe, take not the Jews or the Christians for your friends and protectors. They are but friends and protectors to each other.&quot; In the chapter about how to stop those &quot;break-line-wars&quot; Huntington writes: &quot;The force along cultural break lines may stop for a while completely, but it rarely ends really.&quot; &quot;These problems become still more complicated, if the cultures involved do not have a core state.&quot; Hierarchy-creditor finishing sentence of this important chapter: &quot;A break line war cooks from down highly, a break line peace seeps from above down&quot;. We hope, Huntington will know with security, who at the end is &quot;above&quot;. Another unsentimental, very tough-minded Huntington analysis: &quot;The conflict can disappear fast and brutally, as a group extinguishes the other one.&quot; The fact that cultural difference could brought to coexistence, into an equilibrium, supported by a progressive deliberated secularization of all denominations (accompanied by a sober transformation of all too denomination-linked educating systems) - such trains of thought we unfortunately miss in this provoking sermon, mainly dominated by a military perspective...&quot;above&quot;. Another unsentimental, very tough-minded Huntington analysis: &quot;The conflict can disappear fast and brutally, as a group extinguishes the other one.&quot; The fact that cultural difference could brought to coexistence, into an equilibrium, supported by a progressive deliberated secularization of all denominations (accompanied by a sober transformation of all too denomination-linked educating systems) - such trains of thought we unfortunately miss in this provoking sermon, mainly dominated by a military perspective...	2005-07-26
US	46396923	RT6XP068NR31E	014044517X	919994894	Conversations of Socrates (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	20	N	N	Against the government-clique of President Perikles ...	Perikles pushed Athens into risky power politics, those led into the Peloponnesi war (431-404 before Chr.). The second woman of Perikles, Aspasia, participated in the philosophical discussions of Socrates and became highly estimated by him. She was accused like Sokrates of being not as religious as they should be. Of course the boring-questioner Socrates became a feedback not only ironically (e.g. by the comedy poet Aristophanes) but also others with heavy rage: started by the government clique around President Perikles. To awaken the people from their sleep of propaganda-smeared opinions, - this had to provoke counter actions. In his defense speech at court Socrates didn't own much time. The limit was set by a pot of water, having a whole. The moment, all the water had run out, that was the very moment he had to stop his speech. The jury of 500 Athenians didn't like to listen at all - and they were happy, to bring that thing quickly to an end. The three prosecutors of Socrates by the way had been lynched a few weeks later. Probably the thoughts become accepted to which Socrates had wanted to inflame: \\"... perhaps you might possibly be offended, like the sleeping who are awakened, striking me, you might easily kill, then the rest of your lives you might continue sleeping...\\" - Socrates maintained his integrity as hero until the end. His radical critique of the Athenians fundamental values is the starting point of western philosophy, of the modern debate over civil disobedience (compare Henry David Thoreau, Martin Luther King Jr., Jane Fonda and so on...). Today it's still amusing to follow the way, how the master shredded the weaknesses in faulty arguments. Socrates had tried to make publicly, what later should be named as \\"try-and-error procedures of thinking\\". And he didn't allow the mighty ones to intimidate him. There are cultural fluctuations with regard to the allowance to think opposite. Jesus or Spartacus (or the American Socrates-scientist Vlastos, notified by the FBI and threatened with deportation to Canada because he didn't agree to the VietNam-war), Angela Davis, Sinead o'Connor or Michael Moore - they had their special versions of trouble. Today we don't need a death-sentence, there are smaller and more effective tricks, to produce a YES to nearly everything. So we still need such a hero of dissidence like Socrates - or should we stop thinking self-confidently? Nearly 500 years before Christ this Socrates gave an unforgettable sign of a solid character. He didn't beg the judge committee, to stop the death penalty, he didn't agree to accept exile - in the contrary he made a request for the highest honor in Athens at that time: the daily free meal-supply in the city hall. He was an ironic man and he knew, this request had been a little too much for the nervous jury ...by the FBI and threatened with deportation to Canada because he didn't agree to the VietNam-war), Angela Davis, Sinead o'Connor or Michael Moore - they had their special versions of trouble. Today we don't need a death-sentence, there are smaller and more effective tricks, to produce a YES to nearly everything. So we still need such a hero of dissidence like Socrates - or should we stop thinking self-confidently? Nearly 500 years before Christ this Socrates gave an unforgettable sign of a solid character. He didn't beg the judge committee, to stop the death penalty, he didn't agree to accept exile - in the contrary he made a request for the highest honor in Athens at that time: the daily free meal-supply in the city hall. He was an ironic man and he knew, this request had been a little too much for the nervous jury ...	2005-07-25
US	46396923	R210Y9CJD96QS6	014044517X	919994894	Conversations of Socrates (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	24	N	N	Against the government-clique of President Perikles ...	Perikles pushed Athens into risky power politics, those led into the Peloponnesi war (431-404 before Chr.). The second woman of Perikles, Aspasia, participated in the philosophical discussions of Socrates and became highly estimated by him. She was accused like Sokrates of being not as religious as they should be. Of course the boring-questioner Socrates became a feedback not only ironically (e.g. by the comedy poet Aristophanes) but also others with heavy rage: started by the government clique around President Perikles. To awaken the people from their sleep of propaganda-smeared opinions, - this had to provoke counter actions. In his defense speech at court Socrates didnt own much time. The limit was set by a pot of water, having a whole. The moment, all the water had run out, that was the very moment he had to stop his speech. The jury of 500 Athenians didnt like to listen at all - and they were happy, to bring that thing quickly to an end. The three prosecutors of Socrates by the way had been lynched a few weeks later. Probably the thoughts become accepted to which Socrates had wanted to inflame: &quot;... perhaps you might possibly be offended, like the sleeping who are awakened, striking me, you might easily kill, then the rest of your lives you might continue sleeping...&quot; - Socrates maintained his integrity as hero until the end. His radical critique of the Athenians fundamental values is the starting point of western philosophy, of the modern debate over civil disobedience (compare Henry David Thoreau, Martin Luther King Jr., Jane Fonda and so on...). Today its still amusing to follow the way, how the master shredded the weaknesses in faulty arguments. Socrates had tried to make publicly, what later should be named as &quot;try-and-error procedures of thinking&quot;. And he didnt allow the mighty ones to intimidate him. There are cultural fluctuations with regard to the allowance to think opposite. Jesus or Spartacus (or the American Socrates-scientist Vlastos, notified by the FBI and threatened with deportation to Canada because he didnt agree to the VietNam-war), Angela Davis, Sinead oConnor or Michael Moore - they had their special versions of trouble. Today we dont need a death-sentence, there are smaller and more effective tricks, to produce a YES to nearly everything. So we still need such a hero of dissidence like Socrates - or should we stop thinking self-confidently? Nearly 500 years before Christ this Socrates gave an unforgettable sign of a solid character. He didnt beg the judge committee, to stop the death penalty, he didnt agree to accept exile - in the contrary he made a request for the highest honor in Athens at that time: the daily free meal-supply in the city hall. He was an ironic man and he knew, this request had been a little too much for the nervous jury ...	2005-07-25
US	46396923	R1UQXDSEO3FH5Z	0486275639	397623101	Civil Disobedience and Other Essays (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The Persistance Of The Philosophers ...	\\"Because they could not seize my thoughts, they decided, to punish my body...\\": this sentence was the first,which remaind in my memory, consolidated in my soul, reason enough, to explore more about this Henry David Thoreau (12.7.1817-2.5.1862). He moved in the same circles of society-critical network as Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), in the middle of the 19th century at the American east coast. Thoreau's \\"On the Duty of Civil Disobedience\\" has left behind world-wide effects: Gandhi carried it during his frequent prison stays in his pocket (later India attained home rule and racial integration), Hermann Hesse (Siddharta) was influenced, the resistance against Hitler-Germany used it for backbone-stabilization, Martin Luther King Jr. or Joan Baez were inspired by him, Bertrand Russell, Nelson Mandela or the philosopher Herbert Marcuse (19.7.1898-29.7.1979) took possession of Thoreau's patterns of thinking. Thoreau was ever convinced that he was not on earth to please anybody, but rather to be authentically. Of course Thoreau's rugged individualism is not the very first in the history of philosophy. Forerunner structures can be found in the \\"Antigone\\" of Sophokles (translated in earlier years by Thoreau himself) or in the thoughts of Confucius (well known to Thoreau) or in the essay of Boetie, a friend of the french philosopher Montaigne: Boetie wrote about \\"discours sur la servitude volontaire\\". As a guidance to nowadays political actions Thoreau's spectrum of opinions probably is no longer suitable. One should reflect on the more and more complicated administrative systems, the clever governments and political leaders, their artfulness of subterfuge, their underhand stratagems, the many snares layed out by laws and remissions, injunctions and decrees; don't forget the sometimes dull executive. They made themselves fitter than ever to overcome all sorts of social resistance. Instead of paying a poll tax Thoreau once upon a time spent a night in jail. Inspired from this classic treatise on passive, nonviolent resistance you may decide to make a sit-down-strike against crusaders and reverse-crusaders or an action, refusing to pay money for the electricity, because you like to restrain the atomic age: be sure: you will not change the direction of the politicians passing by. They will think you are a little bit farcical. To retreat obstinately into the wood living in a block hut alike Thoreau: I don't advise this method to the broad of the population in the present days, at least take a look at the medical supply situation thus worsened. Linguistically however could start a new era of Thoreau's effectiveness, if there were increasingly sensitive readers. A futile hope? Think about the sentence \\"I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn.\\" What sort of consequences and changing the rules of behaviour are TODAY necessary to realize such a direction of sef-reliance? Let's finish with another quotation of a sentence, which this extraordinary American philosopher wrote - and I never can forget these words like the one in the beginning of my review. He noted in his laconic style: \\"The lawyer's truth is consequence.\\" Means: Without action following a decision, supporting something is useless. It inspired me to write a book concerning \\"The Persistance of the Philosophers\\" - and to take a daily walk down by the riverside ...is classic treatise on passive, nonviolent resistance you may decide to make a sit-down-strike against crusaders and reverse-crusaders or an action, refusing to pay money for the electricity, because you like to restrain the atomic age: be sure: you will not change the direction of the politicians passing by. They will think you are a little bit farcical. To retreat obstinately into the wood living in a block hut alike Thoreau: I don't advise this method to the broad of the population in the present days, at least take a look at the medical supply situation thus worsened. Linguistically however could start a new era of Thoreau's effectiveness, if there were increasingly sensitive readers. A futile hope? Think about the sentence \\"I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn.\\" What sort of consequences and changing the rules of behaviour are TODAY necessary to realize such a direction of sef-reliance? Let's finish with another quotation of a sentence, which this extraordinary American philosopher wrote - and I never can forget these words like the one in the beginning of my review. He noted in his laconic style: \\"The lawyer's truth is consequence.\\" Means: Without action following a decision, supporting something is useless. It inspired me to write a book concerning \\"The Persistance of the Philosophers\\" - and to take a daily walk down by the riverside ...	2005-07-23
US	46396923	R2AM27SDKTF17Y	0847825043	620431349	The Rage and the Pride	Books	5	29	35	N	N	we should start a dialogue with the imams ...	Oriana Fallaci treats Islamic Fundamentalism as equivalent to Mussolini's Facism or Hitler's Nazi-Ideology. She thinks, that Osama bin Laden started a sort of Islamofascism, a \\"Reverse Crusade\\". We all know the Bamiyan Buddhas (the ones the Taliban dynamited) and the September 11's apocalypse, we know the attacks in Madrid, Istanbul and now in London. Journalist Fallaci wrote in her book: \\"So listen to me, you followers of a God who preaches an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. I was born in the war. I grew up in the war. About war I know a lot and believe me: I have more balls than your kamikazes who find the courage to die only when dying means killing thousands of people. Babies included. War you wanted, war you want? Good.\\" Maybe this old lady (75) too vigorously defends Western culture. On the other hand maybe it is correct, when she blames Europe's blindness, deafness, masochism, conformism considering the growing numbers of culturally non-integrated Muslim minorities. The global violent actions of the Jihad and a lack of civil debate-response remains a constant reality, isn't it? Various imams of Europe (many of whom have been implicated or jailed for terrorist activities) celebrated 9-11 and pushed in their mosques the tenets of a religious death following the words of the Koran and the wishes of \\"Allah\\". We immediately should start a discussion with this \\"religious\\" scene. We shoud require a statement of the imams with regard to the suicide-bombers. Muslims in Madrid, Istanbul, London and elsewhere in Europe should say a clear and public NO or YES. And maybe, before we start a discussion with those \\"religious\\" people, we at first should read Oriana Fallaci's book ...	2005-07-21
US	46396923	R2D8HER9TF6L7X	084782599X	620431349	The Rage and the Pride: International English Edition	Books	5	20	22	N	N	about  crusaders and reverse-crusaders ...	Oriana Fallaci treats Islamic Fundamentalism as equivalent to Mussolinis Facism or Hitlers Nazi-Ideology. She thinks, that Osama bin Laden started a sort of Islamofascism, a \\"Reverse Crusade\\". We all know the Bamiyan Buddhas (the ones the Taliban dynamited) and the September 11's apocalypse, we know the attacks in Madrid, Istanbul and now in London. Journalist Fallaci wrote in her book: \\"So listen to me, you followers of a God who preaches an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. I was born in the war. I grew up in the war. About war I know a lot and believe me: I have more balls than your kamikazes who find the courage to die only when dying means killing thousands of people. Babies included. War you wanted, war you want? Good.\\" Maybe this old lady (75) too vigorously defends Western culture. On the other hand maybe it is correct, when she blames Europes blindness, deafness, masochism, conformism considering the growing numbers of culturally non-integrated Muslim minorities. The global violent actions of the Jihad and a lack of civil debate-response remains a constant reality, isnt it? Various imams of Europe (many of whom have been implicated or jailed for terrorist activities) celebrated 9-11 and pushed in their mosques the tenets of a religious death following the words of the Koran and the wishes of \\"Allah\\". We immediately should start a discussion with this \\"religious\\" scene. We shoud require a statement of the imams with regard to the suicide-bombers. Muslims in Madrid, Istanbul, London and elsewhere in Europe should say a clear and public NO or YES. And maybe, before we start a discussion with those \\"religious\\" people, we at first should read Oriana Fallacis book ...	2005-07-21
US	46396923	R2YSAIH0NATQ8Y	084782599X	620431349	The Rage and the Pride: International English Edition	Books	5	3	5	N	N	we should start a dialogue with the imams ...	Oriana Fallaci treats Islamic Fundamentalism as equivalent to Mussolini's Facism or Hitler's Nazi-Ideology. She thinks, that Osama bin Laden started a sort of Islamofascism, a \\"Reverse Crusade\\". We all know the Bamiyan Buddhas (the ones the Taliban dynamited) and the September 11's apocalypse, we know the attacks in Madrid, Istanbul and now in London. Journalist Fallaci wrote in her book: \\"So listen to me, you followers of a God who preaches an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. I was born in the war. I grew up in the war. About war I know a lot and believe me: I have more balls than your kamikazes who find the courage to die only when dying means killing thousands of people. Babies included. War you wanted, war you want? Good.\\" Maybe this old lady (75) too vigorously defends Western culture. On the other hand maybe it is correct, when she blames Europe's blindness, deafness, masochism, conformism considering the growing numbers of culturally non-integrated Muslim minorities. The global violent actions of the Jihad and a lack of civil debate-response remains a constant reality, isn't it? Various imams of Europe (many of whom have been implicated or jailed for terrorist activities) celebrated 9-11 and pushed in their mosques the tenets of a religious death following the words of the Koran and the wishes of \\"Allah\\". We immediately should start a discussion with this \\"religious\\" scene. We shoud require a statement of the imams with regard to the suicide-bombers. Muslims in Madrid, Istanbul, London and elsewhere in Europe should say a clear and public NO or YES. And maybe, before we start a discussion with those \\"religious\\" people, we at first should read Oriana Fallaci's book ...	2005-07-21
US	46396923	R2X9PB862K7LZK	0671047426	254872191	Spanking Watson (Kinky Friedman Novels (Paperback))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Embedded a piece of Idi Amin and  of Mother Theresa	Richard Samet \\"Kinky\\" FRIEDMAN, writing books diabolically titled alike \\"How To Lose Friends And Irritate People\\", \\"Elvis, Jesus and Coca-Cola\\", \\"Reflections on Country Singers, Presidents, and Other Troublemakers\\" or \\"How I Was Born in a Manager, Died in the Saddle, and Came Back as a Horny Toad\\" (or creating songs together with his \\"Texas Jewboys\\" titled \\"They Ain't Making Jews Like Jesus Anymore\\") - he is a satirist, checking out, if his readers do have the aristocratic nobility to waste their time; so his stories ain't really important, they are making jokes for example about the crime-genre. The score is by Friedman's style of lightness. The German writer and composer E. T. A. Hoffmann jumpes into my head with his phantastic \\"The Life and Opinions of the Tomcat Murr\\" (satirical resemblance to 'The Life and Opinions of Tristam Shandy', Laurence Sterne): while reading Kinky Friedman's dialogues with his nonchalance cat. Alike the german romantic E.T.A. Hoffmann Friedman uses in \\"Spanking Watson\\" a cat view to create a distance to the things. Of course Friedman, who is able to treat ironically President Bill Clinton (presenting him Cuban Cigars) or President George W. (talk shopping with him on the White-House-balcony about football-stars), also is able to make jokes about italian mafia killers, lesbian dancers and day-dreaming detectives without any real work. He *manages to blend, with overpowering skill and boldness, fantasy, wittiness, irony, sharp political criticism and lyricism, giving to the cultivated reader an endless cornucopia of sophisticated, intelligent gladness* a customer wrote in his review - about E.T.A. Hoffmann. It could be said about Kinky Friedman too. My favorite sentence in this Friedman-book: \\"In everyone of us there is embedded a piece of Idi Amin and a piece of Mother Theresa as well. We should be grateful, that they never have had children together.\\"	2005-07-11
US	46396923	R13PVVELOFHXEP	0875969232	871887849	Zen Cat	Books	5	6	6	N	N	to support the effort to stay calm	There are quotations of wise words of the Dalai Lama and Buddha, of American authors like H.L. Mencken or Henry David Thoreau, but also of European writers like Montaigne, Voltaire, Sartre (France) or Goethe, Wittgenstein (Germany), of Italo Calvino, Leonardo da Vinci, Cesare Pavese (Italy). You can see in this tiny book CATS: resting in paper-bags, or others, making stripes on their fur coat, standing behind window shades. In the introduction the publishing author Judith Adler (a New York \\"communicator, marketing muse, business intuitive, and soul coach, she helps individuals and companies realize their dreams by creating success from the only place that lasts: the INSIDE OUT\\") - Judith Adler for example describes, how her cat followed \\"the graceful dance of light upon the walls\\" of her bedroom. This was a help to the author, finding her \\"own inner feline\\", that field of emotional resources, which is able to make a correspondence to the typical feline, ZEN-alike capability being \\"focused, present, sitting stiller than a statue, meditating\\". If \\"we act with cats, these qualities are reflected back in us\\". It is not needful, to search poetical-pious metaphorical words, like a friend of the author did, saying: \\"Cats are bridges between heaven and earth, ... furry little ambassadors from beyond.\\" Those people, who don't believe in such things, may prefer to formulate with a certain sense of humor, talking about \\"CAT-ALYSTS\\": A cat is a cat-alyzer making transpositions of far-east wisdom. On one of these pages you can find a prayer-like T.S. Eliot-quotation: \\"Teach us to care and not to care. Teach us to sit still.\\" It has been no problem to the trustworthy-stylish black-and-white-photographer Paul Coughlin (who also published - among other books - \\"Timeless New York: A Literary and Photographic Tribute\\") - no problem to combine these aphorisms with congenial pictures: One cat, sitting near Washington Square (the publishers are making thankful acknowledgments to the Washington Square Animal Hospital doctors Ann Lucas and Dr. Kristin Kuscher and so on) - one cat is sitting on the entrance-stair of a café. Next to it Judith Adler wrote: \\"Cats don't belong to people. They belong to places.\\" Well, the place of this book is immutable on my writing-desk - in order to support my daily effort to stay calm, collected and composed.	2005-07-06
US	46396923	R2EE5M1IO2TGNJ	1557045399	239252886	Condi: The Condoleezza Rice Story	Books	5	0	12	N	N	about a lifelong fight against oppression ...	Alike a \\"TERMINATRIX\\" Condoleezza \\"Condi\\" Rice seems to manage her jobs, being the most martial of all war princesses, always controled and perfectly looking, coolly and compromiseless heading for preventive wars...\\" - Antonia Felix tries to explain the character and the life-lines from roots (from house-slaves to \\"evangelists of education\\", Condis favorite gospel: \\"I need Thee every day\\" ) up to the present (in the year 2002: President Bush's national security advisor), describing the most prominent woman in global policy today. Superbrain or \\"puppet on a string\\" [of the Bush-Clan] or a further example of \\"sex sells\\"? Condi \\"surprises and offends some who assume that talented black women must all be political liberals. Rice isn't, and she has good reasons...\\" one reviewer wrote: Indeed, born in segregated Birmingham, Rice maybe is suffering under a sort of \\"Post Traumatic Stress Disorder\\", cannot forget the experience of the force against black ones in her childhood [1963, when white rassists placed a bomb in a black church], and therefore she strives particularly strongly for a \\"reversal of a faint experience\\": very bad conditions for the current interest members of the \\"Axe Of Evil\\" - Iraq, Iran, North Korea - isnt it? Condoleezza (versus the meaning of her name \\"con dolcezza\\"  play \\"with sweetness\\") usually isnt prim at all: to spy out (by hidden phone-hearing) the UN coworkers: that she describes with constant smile in her face only as a \\"dirty trick\\"; building up hectic reasons for a war against Saddam Hussein: dont mention it; counterarguments dont make her stumble. Antonia Felix, looking back in Condis lifeline, writes in a thrilling manner about the racial discrimination in the USA, about the university career of Condoleezaa [aged 26 professor at the Stanford University], about her ascent to the personal coach of the white-house-chief - so that every reader of this book, beside a necessary frowning, is able to reconstruct sections of the motives of Rices political acting. So this book is very suitable to check up one of the most important wire-pullers in the enduring clash of civilizations, a story about that way, a female black person has chosen, to fight effectively against oppression ...	2005-07-04
US	46396923	RHPYGBX8Q17D5	1557045399	239252886	Condi: The Condoleezza Rice Story	Books	5	0	7	N	N	livelong fighting against oppression ...	Alike a \\"TERMINATRIX\\" Condoleezza \\"Condi\\" Rice seems to manage her jobs, being the most martial of all war princesses, always controled and perfectly looking, coolly and compromiseless heading for preventive wars...\\" - Antonia Felix tries to explain the character and the life-lines from roots (from house-slaves to \\"evangelists of education\\", Condi's favorite gospel: \\"I need Thee every day\\" ) up to the present (in the year 2002: President Bush's national security advisor), describing the most prominent woman in global policy today. Superbrain or \\"puppet on a string\\" [of the Bush-Clan] or a further example of \\"sex sells\\"? Condi \\"surprises and offends some who assume that talented black women must all be political liberals. Rice isn't, and she has good reasons...\\" one reviewer wrote: Indeed, born in segregated Birmingham, Rice maybe is suffering under a sort of \\"Post Traumatic Stress Disorder\\", cannot forget the experience of the force against black ones in her childhood [1963, when white rassists placed a bomb in a black church], and therefore she strives particularly strongly for a \\"reversal of a faint experience\\": very bad conditions for the current interest members of the \\"Axe Of Evil\\" - Iraq, Iran, North Korea - isn't it? Condoleezza (versus the meaning of her name \\"con dolcezza\\" - play \\"with sweetness\\") usually isn't prim at all: to spy out (by hidden phone-hearing) the UN coworkers: that she describes with constant smile in her face only as a \\"dirty trick\\"; building up hectic reasons for a war against Saddam Hussein: don't mention it; counterarguments don't make her stumble. Antonia Felix, looking back in Condi's lifeline, writes in a thrilling manner about the racial discrimination in the USA, about the university career of Condoleezaa [aged 26 professor at the Stanford University], about her ascent to the personal coach of the white-house-chief - so that every reader of this book, beside a necessary frowning, is able to reconstruct sections of the motives of Rices political acting. So this book is very suitable to check up one of the most important wire-pullers in the enduring clash of civilizations, a story about that way, a female black person has chosen, to fight effectively against oppression ...ices political acting. So this book is very suitable to check up one of the most important wire-pullers in the enduring clash of civilizations, a story about that way, a female black person has chosen, to fight effectively against oppression ...  <br />	2005-07-04
US	46396923	R30GX1XJN4NEEV	0007182805	301596016	Cathedral Cats	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Surman opens our heart not only for cats	The British journalist Richard Surman has worked 27 years long as a professional photographer world-wide for advertising clients and airlines - now he retreated to Spain with his South American wife to rest - however he is still nostalgic remembering back to his ancient Old England lifestyle-roots, its old-venerable church walls, canons, organists - and their cats. So he not only lists some of the most beautiful cathedrals in the U.K., but also adds the life-history of the cats living there beneath people working behind old church-walls. &quot;Cats don't belong to people, they belong to places ...&quot; once Wright Morris said - Richard Surman now delivers the photographies desrcibing this axiom. For example the story of the cat TOMKINS, who is designated after a composer: when cats-&quot;owner&quot; Peter Nardone, organist and Director of Music at Chelmsford Cathedral begins to mistreat the organ practising J.S. Bach, &quot;Tomkins makes his way hastily upstairs to the guest bedroom, clambers onto the bed and sticks his head under a pillow.&quot; But Tomkins on the other hand takes pains to be helpful: &quot;He always calls when the newspapers come through the letter box - though this may have more to do with his habit of sleeping on the doormat than a deliberate policy of helpfulness.&quot; A second example for the authors humoristic writing-style: Olsen, the cat of the Bishop of Chester, the Rt Rev. Dr Peter Foster, and his Danish wife Elizabeth, - Olsen &quot;was tempted to dismiss the religious life. He turned instead to the lure of nights in the city,...&quot; ignored &quot;warnings about 'drunks, vagabonds, ladies of the night and the worst elements of society&quot;. Olson every night &quot;found the ideal surroundings for his inscrutable and laid-back style&quot;: the nearby Alexander's Jazz Theatre. Richard Surman opens our heart not only for cats, but also for the cosy country and church-lives - not poisened by big-urban-areas hectic, brings us near to a perception of a world, in which the time seems to stopp. This tiny book inexpensive and affectionately replaces an England vacation, if the purse is empty...erception of a world, in which the time seems to stopp. This tiny book inexpensive and affectionately replaces an England vacation, if the purse is empty...	2005-06-30
US	46396923	R3DXF1AIBF25SX	0875969232	871887849	Zen Cat	Books	5	3	4	N	N	calm, collected and composed ...	There are quotations of wise words of the Dalai Lama and Buddha, of american authors like H.L. Mencken or Henry David Thoreau, but also of european writers like Montaigne, Voltaire, Sartre (France) or Goethe, Wittgenstein (Germany), of Italo Calvino, Leonardo da Vinci, Cesare Pavese (Italy). You can see in this tiny book CATS: resting in paper-bags, or others, making stripes on their fur coat, standing behind window shades. In the introduction the publishing author Judith Adler (a New York \\"communicator, marketing muse, business intuitive, and soul coach, she helps individuals and companies realize their dreams by creating success from the only place that lasts: the INSIDE OUT\\") - Judith Adler for example describes, how her cat followed \\"the graceful dance of light upon the walls\\" of her bedroom. This was a help to the author, finding her \\"own inner feline\\", that field of emotional ressources, which is able to make a correspondance to the typical feline, ZEN-alike capability being \\"focused, present, sitting stiller than a statue, meditating\\". If \\"we act with cats, these qualities are reflected back in us\\". It is not needful, to search poetical-pious metaphorical words, like a friend of the author did, saying: \\"Cats are bridges between heaven and earth, ... furry little ambassadors from beyond.\\" Those people, who don't believe in such things, may prefer to formulate with a certain sense of humour, talking about \\"CAT-ALYSTS\\": A cat is a cat-alyzer making transpositions of far-east wisdom. On one of these pages you can find a prayer-like T.S. Eliot-quotation: \\"Teach us to care and not to care. Teach us to sit still.\\" It has been no problem to the trustworthy-stylish black-and-white-photographer Paul Coughlin (who also published - among other books - \\"Timeless New York: A Literary and Photographic Tribute\\") - no problem to combine these aphorisms with congenial pictures: One cat, sitting near Washington Square (the publishers are making thankful acknowledgments to the Washington Square Animal Hospital doctors Ann Lucas and Dr. Kristin Kuscher and so on) - one cat is sitting on the entrance-stair of a caf&eacute;. Next to it Judith Adler wrote: \\"Cats don't belong to people. They belong to places.\\" Well, the place of this book is immutable on my writing-desk - in order to support my daily effort to stay calm, collected and composedashington Square Animal Hospital doctors Ann Lucas and Dr. Kristin Kuscher and so on) - one cat is sitting on the entrance-stair of a caf. Next to it Judith Adler wrote: \\"Cats don't belong to people. They belong to places.\\" Well, the place of this book is immutable on my writing-desk - in order to support my daily effort to stay calm, collected and composed	2005-06-21
US	46396923	R1IS0502X9A9WW	1584793856	40311451	ABC Cat	Books	5	2	2	N	N	cover of black velvet - as cats prefer ...	Lorenz Kienzle, though living in Berlin, germany, was presented by galleries in united kingdom, italy, france and so on - and he is proud to be presented by the US-publishers Stewart, Tabori &amp; Chang in New York, Manhattan, 115 West 18th Street: and they have done their work very well: The cover of this little precious book is made of black velvet, so cats really will start to love this book too, taking place on the cover for a dream-time. CAT-ABC: the letter &quot;S&quot; for example shows &quot;STRETCH&quot; - the authors tomcat named &quot;KATER&quot; is doing his very best to reach the level of aerobic heroes like Jane Fonda. Letter &quot;R&quot;: ROUND - a sleeping-body-hieroglyph showing a circle-form (making a mimikry-correspondance to a coffee-pot); letter &quot;L&quot; - LENGTH: extreme-show: cat KATER is demonstrating, that he is able to make himself as long as a hare - in order to cover the length of his favorite sofa, so that no one else can take a seat. Letter &quot;E&quot;: EDGE: cats talent, to let the chin hang over the edge while resting on tables, chairs, cupboards, refrigerators or bookshelfs. Letter &quot;Q&quot; . QUADRUPED: showing footprints in the snow. Letter &quot;C&quot; - CUDDLE: evidence, that human and animal beings are able to make a sculpture of togetherness while sleeping in the same bed. Letter &quot;H&quot; - HIDE AND SEEK - I think this is a manner of playing we can find in the whole world - not only between (human) childs and their parents, between cats and dogs, birds and horses - its a gift to see the same thing taking place between animals and the extraordinary beings, that climbed some levels higher on the evolution-ledder - HIDE and SEEK - its a way, to remember the roots of all living. Letter &quot;J&quot; - JUMP - shifting the reader of the book in astonishment and leading him to the opinion, that some cats are jumping more risky than parachutists. Very often books about cats are awful kitch, indeed, portraying animals dressed as humans, posing for bad jokes, they cant identify. But this ABC of cats seems to be composed in memory of the grandfather of animal behavior-science Konrad Lorenz: The photographer Lorenz Kienzle now created a well done picture-collection of animal-observation. If cats could write a customer-review, they would scratch on the paper: &quot;Yeah, thats it!&quot;	2005-06-09
US	46396923	R2ZGTOPTU7G172	1584793856	40311451	ABC Cat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	with a book cover of black velvet - as cats prefer ...	Lorenz Kienzle, though living in Berlin, germany, was presented by galleries in united kingdom, italy, france and so on - and he is proud to be presented by the US-publishers Stewart, Tabori & Chang in New York, Manhattan, 115 West 18th Street: and they have done their work very well: The cover of this little precious book is made of black velvet, so cats really will start to love this book too, taking place on the cover for a dream-time. CAT-ABC: the letter \\"S\\" for example shows \\"STRETCH\\" - the authors tomcat named \\"KATER\\" is doing his very best to reach the level of aerobic heroes like jane fonda. Letter \\"R\\": ROUND - a sleeping-body-hieroglyph showing a circle-form (making a mimikry-correspondance to a coffee-pot); letter \\"L\\" - LENGTH: extreme-show: cat KATER is demonstrating, that he is able to make himself as long as a hare - in order to cover the length of his favorite sofa, so that no one else can take a seat. Letter \\"E\\": EDGE: cats talent, to let the chin hang over the edge while resting on tables, chairs, cupboards, refrigerators or bookshelfs. Letter \\"Q\\" . QUADRUPED: showing footprints in the snow. Letter \\"C\\" - CUDDLE: evidence, that human and animal beings are able to make a sculpture of togetherness while sleeping in the same bed. Letter \\"H\\" - HIDE AND SEEK - I think this is a manner of playing we can find in the whole world - not only between (human) childs and their parents, between cats and dogs, birds and horses - it's a gift to see the same thing taking place between animals and the extraordinary beings, that climbed some levels higher on the evolution-ledder - HIDE and SEEK - it's a way, to remember the roots of all living. Letter \\"J\\" - JUMP - shifting the reader of the book in astonishment and leading him to the opinion, that some cats are jumping more risky than parachutists. Very often books about cats are awful kitch, indeed, portraying animals dressed as humans, posing for bad jokes, they can't identify. But this ABC of cats seems to be composed in memory of the grandfather of animal behavior-science Konrad Lorenz: The photographer Lorenz Kienzle now created a well done picture-collection of animal-observation. If cats could write a customer-review, they would scratch on the paper: \\"yeah, that's it!\\"d in memory of the grandfather of animal behavior-science Konrad Lorenz: The photographer Lorenz Kienzle now created a well done picture-collection of animal-observation. If cats could write a customer-review, they would scratch on the paper: \\"yeah, that's it!\\"	2005-06-08
