US	46391573	R19KAF6R16ZD3G	0452282950	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	I LIKE STORIES ABOUT THE RUSSIAN MOB AND DOGS	Doyle is a black dog our protagonist Monty (Montgomery) Brogan found by the side of the road and took in. Beat up and scarred, Doyle is the opposite of pretty boy Monty, a young New York drug dealer, for whom women and money have come easily - so far. But now he has been ratted out and must do seven years, with no time for good behavior, at Otisville. So he and his two buds from high school, Jakob and Slattery, and his Puerto Rican girffriend Naturelle - and Doyle - have one last night on the town before Monty takes that bus trip to federal prison at the 25th hour. Providing the background menace is the Russian mob, headed by Uncle Blue, who are part of the illicit drug trade. Mr. Benioff explores lives of Slattery and Jakob, especially nerdy teacher Jakob, and the relationship between Naturelle and Monty. There are lessons to be learned in this first novel, including The Road Not Taken and the risks of being a criminal. This is noir genre, so don't look for a rosy ending. But I thought the ending was satisfying and real. It didn't keep me up all night turning pages with an electric page-turner but overall it is a well-written, literate crime novel about life among twenty-somethings in New York, albeit one who is a drug dealer. I like stories about the Russian mob and dogs. Buy this one.	2005-10-06
US	46391573	R2BVQVHXF855C1	0910923221	540630759	Orlok	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	THE STORY OF THE GREATEST GENERAL WHO LIVED	I have mixed feelings about ORLOK by Don Dandrea. ORLOK is a saga of the life of perhaps the greatest general who ever lived, Subotai, the Mongol. Orlok is a word that means the eagle and was the title given to a leader of armies. Subotai fought under Ghenghis Khan and it is said won more than fifty battles. ORLOK is a sweeping adventure story with the search for the love of Subotai's life, lost to him in youth, as the central theme. As such, it is compelling. Still, if the prose, especially the love scenes, is not purple, then it can be violet. One hopes for better writing than the mechanical narrative we are given. And the battle scenes, the chief work of this military commander who is the main character of the novel, are brief. On the other hand, after reading ORLOK, I felt like I knew first hand what it is like to live on the steppes as a nomad. His research is first rate. For example, Mr. Dandrea delves into Indian mysticism deeply, perhaps too much so, for the narrative stalls for many pages while we are instructed in religion. All in all, I have to recommend this novel as a companion to Cecelia Holland's UNTIL THE SUN FALLS about the same subject. Read both and you will enjoy Ms. Holland's more skillful story-telling and appreciate Mr. Dandrea's more detailed scene-setting.	2005-09-23
US	46391573	R1K72URCVE87QL	0670034487	984212428	Nelson's Trafalgar: The Battle That Changed the World	Books	4	13	14	N	N	REALISM FOR SEA DOGS	NELSON'S TRAFALGAR is a meticulously researched and detailed account of the last great sea battle between wooden sail ships. Mr. Adkins provides the political landscape leading up to the battle and then takes the reader through a blow-by-blow narrative of the conflict. Fortunately, many letters and reports survive describing the battle by eye witnesses and Mr. Adkins quotes extensively from them. The depictions of battle at sea in NELSON'S TRAFALGAR is not for the weak-at-heart and should dispell any notions of glorious swashbuckling, propagated by Hollywood and some works of fiction, in all but the most jaded romantic. In truth, fights between wooden ships of this era was like two large rafts with cannon firing at each other point blank. This is because the wooden hulls did little if anything to stop a cannon ball. Actually, it was even worse because the hulls would splinter when a ball passed through, turning into deadly scrapnel. The book is heavily footnoted, the notes placed at the back of the book out of the way of the narrative. There are several maps showing the position of the ships at different stages of the battle and charts of the area where the battle was fought plus a number of illustrations. A list of all the ships, their captains and the number of cannons is given. One learns much about the state of medicine in 1805 as well as how muskets and cannon were fired and about life aboard ship. It is interesting to note that roads in England at that time were mostly in a sorry state between towns, making me feel better about \\"primitive\\" 1800 America. NELSON'S TRAFALGAR contains a lot of information much suited to the naval history buff. While Mr. Adkins tries to expand the scope of the book perhaps to interest the general history reader, I think this one would be enjoyed mostly by sea dogs. It also would be an invaluable reference to anyone writing a realistic work of fiction about the wooden sail ship era.	2005-09-18
US	46391573	RA38QD7SOI8E6	0060554363	154594563	The Killings of Stanley Ketchel: A Novel	Books	3	5	8	N	Y	NOT A KNOCKOUT	This effort by the talented Mr. Blake is like watered-down tea: it's weak but it's still tea and even diluted Blake is still Blake. The author seems to have lost his trademark brutal yet almost poetical prose and has turned out a book that reads like juvenile fiction, if you take out all the sex and violence. While the romantic scenes do serve to portray Ketchel's fondness for women which ultimately did him in and the scenes of violence show the reader how tough he was in and out of the ring, they seem weakly and flatly written and repetitious. However, Mr. Blake does not pull any punches for the fight scenes: the boxing matches are quite well-penned. And a big plus is that THE KILLINGS OF STANLEY KETCHEL gives the reader a painless course in early pugilistic history. I had never heard of Stanley Ketchel before and, after reading this novel, I wonder why. Searching the internet for information about him, I learned that Stanley Ketchel may have been the best middleweight of all time. A computer simulation of a bout between him and Sugar Ray Robinson had Ketchel losing a decision and he was never knocked down by Sugar Ray. Furthermore, Ketchel fought the famous Jack Johnson, the huge heavyweight champion, and knocked him down for an eight count before foolishly dropping his guard and being knocked out by Johnson. Keep in mind that Johnson outweighed Ketchel by forty pounds in that fight and towered over him like a man over a boy. For fight fans and James Carlos Blake fans, you may want to read this book. But this is not Mr. Blake's best effort and I would steer first-time Blake readers to RED GRASS RIVER or IN THE ROGUE BLOOD or even A WORLD OF THIEVES. This one's not a knockout.	2005-08-10
US	46391573	R31EGVTUE4GAZJ	0297846094	81592584	Blenheim: Battle for Europe	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	AN EXCELLENT ACCOUNT OF AN IMPORTANT BATTLE	Based on diaries and letters of the participants and other sources, Charles Spencer gives a very readable, informative account, not only of the Battle of Blenheim, but of a whole period of history. BLENHEIM, BATTLE FOR EUROPE, is the story of how two friends and military geniuses, the Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene of Savoy spoiled the Sun King's splendor. Louis XIV's army, considered invincible for forty years, was crushed at Blenheim, a small Bavarian village on the Danube, signaling that the Sun King would not conquer the Continent. Mr Spencer describes not only the everyday lot of the common soldier: his arms, medical treatment and food, but he also delves into the personalities of the major participants involved, from the Sun King to the field generals to Sarah, Marlborough's wife. This is popular history at its best, although the term \\"popular history\\" somehow seems dismissive; would it be that all history was written as well and as entertainingly. The book comes with color reproductions of portraits, three maps, including two battle maps showing positions and movements of troops, and order of battle and unit strength tables, useful for those who might like to recreate the battle as a simulation. He also describes the battlefield terrain quite well and the morale and quality of certain troops. Valuable as a reference, once read for pleasure, I recommend BLENHEIM highly.	2005-07-24
US	46391573	R32G0X3FZ6SH64	0933944225	920625531	Value Handicapping: The Art of Making Your Own Line and Identifying Overlays	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A GREAT VALUE FOR THE HORSE PLAYER	Mark Cramer's VALUE HANDICAPPING is a good value for horse racing handicappers. It is perhaps the only in-depth book on how to set an odds line. With an odds line, the horse player can  make decisions about which horse to bet on based on value. Mr. Cramer explains it better than I can in this small space but value essentially is when a horse goes off at odds greater than the horse's true chances of winning. In other words, if a handicapper thinks a horse would win a given race 33 out of 100 times then he feels the true odds for that runner is 2-1 or 1 out of 3 times the horse will win. If before the race the toteboard says that same horse will pay at 7-2, then you have value. The horse may lose but, if your handicapping is good, he will win enough times to show a profit. VALUE HANDICAPPING is not only about making an odds line. It is also a primer on handicapping because handicapping in an integral part of setting an odds line. The approach is a two-step process where first contenders are placed in a hierarchical order (done through handicapping) and then odds are assigned to each contender. Mr. Cramer, in a lucid writing style, takes the reader through various handicapping scenarios from \\"the low-priced overlay\\" to \\"contentious races\\" to \\"action stakes\\" to \\"the legitimate favorite race\\" and others, using actual races as examples and explaining how he handicapped each one. VALUE HANDICAPPING is a must-have book for every horse player's library for making an odds line and for keen handicapping insights.	2005-05-30
US	46391573	R24EUONQD4IZ3X	0786707763	348392434	Robbers	Books	4	3	8	N	Y	AN ANGRY MR. COOK WRITES A FINE FIRST NOVEL	Mr. Cook waits until about halfway into ROBBERS, his first novel, before he starts with the political messages. It's rather a dirty trick, hooking you with rollicking good storytelling before laying on you a bunch of liberal, anti-American pap. I didn't want to pay $14 (for the paperback) to be lectured by this ex-journalist and ex-trade union, ex-civil rights activist. But, to be a fair reviewer, I have to tell you that Mr. Cook is a good writer who reminds me of James Carlos Blake and Elmore Leonard. ROBBERS is a well-paced tale about two ex-cons who go on a murder spree, the Texas Ranger who hunts them down, and the women in their lives. The characters are well-drawn and the dialogue is authentic. Mr. Cook must have taken notes in his college biology and botany classes because he knows his nature: scene after scene in ROBBERS is colored with vivid descriptions of Texas woods, flatlands and beaches. You just have to get past the liberal propaganda in the second half of the book which adds little or nothing to the plot or the motivation of the characters. Turned around, one might cynically say that ROBBERS is Mr. Cook's vehicle to present his vision of an ugly, polluted, racist United States where lumber and oil companies rape the environment. Mr. Cook obviously doesn't like America and is angry about a whole lot. I guess his liberal journalist and union friends will like the preaching. I didn't.	2005-04-26
US	46391573	R1Q0M19AJDN77R	1860198295	527443373	Masters of Battle	Books	4	10	10	N	N	BEST-EVER WARRIORS	In MASTERS OF BATTLE, Mr. Wilcox selects six warrior classes as the \\"best ever\\". Sort of like naming the top ten baseball players of all time. His picks are: the Vikings, the longbowmen of England, the riflemen of the American Revolution, the Zulus, U-boat captains in WWI and Panzer commanders in WWII. He leaves out Roman legions, the Mongols and German biplane aces of WWI. I am not sure I would have included the Zulus as the British troops they slaughtered at Isandlwana were just as brave and more disciplined and outnumbered 20 to 1 but then this is a subjective exercise like all such lists. The reader of this review can quickly see how entertaining this book is if only in debating the author's choices and omissions. But Mr. Wilcox goes further than that. His research is deep and concise. He provides the background history for each warrior class and describes the key battle or battles which illustrate the reasons for his selection. He could have provided a few more maps but there are photos and illustrations in a centerpiece. The writing is lively and aimed at the general reader. All in all, MASTERS OF BATTLE is a good addition to the military history buff's library shelves.	2005-04-06
US	46391573	R1VZBH16RV33DR	0312327269	272148556	Blitz: A Novel (Inspector Brant Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	LIKEABLE BOOZING BOBBIES	Blitz is the name of a sadistic killer who begins bumping off London bobbies. Tell the truth, I loved BLITZ. I loved the main cop characters, Detective Sergeant Brant and Chief Inspector Roberts, and hope they show up in another book. This is an alcohol-saturated book: it seems all the characters are up till 3 am boozing and look like hell the next day at work. What fun! Wouldn't we all like to be like that, throwing our health to the wind, devil-may-care like. No, probably not. But it is somehow liberating to live vicariously through such tough, hard-as-nails characters. In our overly PC age, when smoking a cigarette is a fineable offense in many places, it does the soul good to see people being free to make mistakes even if only between the covers of a novel. Living badly should be a choice, not a crime, in a free society. Brant and Roberts live badly and are tough, funny and likeable. Ken Bruen has written a series of novels with Jack Taylor as the protagonist which I haven't yet read but have received good reviews. BLITZ is my first Ken Bruen book. Tell you what, mate, it won't be my last.	2005-02-08
US	46391573	R3GIYRLOQ3WOKX	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A FIERCE AND DISCIPLINED MAN	Every American (well almost every American) knows who George Washington was. But what do you really know about our first President? He is more an icon and a saint than a real person in the minds of most of us. So, along comes HIS EXCELLENCY GEORGE WASHINGTON by pulitzer prize-winning Joseph Ellis to inform us about the man. Or about the man's career. This brief biography (275 pages not counting notes) is not a military history or a study of the times or even a personal account of George Washington. Rather it is more the story of his purpose-driven life in the real world. Did you know, for example, that George Washington was a very asute businessman and died one of the richest men in America? He was able to defer gratification for greater rewards in all aspects of his life - love, war, politics, business - and, as such, is perhaps our greatest example of the benefits of such practice, not only to him but to his newly born nation. Mr. Ellis gives us a very readable and entertaining biography. He dedicates HIS EXCELLENCY to W.W. Abbot, his former professor at William and Mary, who was the founding editor of the modern edition of THE PAPERS OF GEORGE WASHINGTON on which Mr. Ellis drew much of the basis for this biography. Washington was a strong man. Gilbert Stuart's portrait on the dust jacket reflects what the artist saw in Washington: \\"Had he been born in the forests, he would have been the fiercest man among the savage tribes.\\"	2005-02-05
US	46391573	R165UW9SN2VA7W	0850524695	345914331	The Charge: The Real Reason Why the Light Brigade Was Lost	Books	4	2	2	N	N	HISTORICAL DETECTIVE WORK	Mark Adkin's THE CHARGE is a relatively recent book (1996) and seeks to explain why the Crimean War blunder was made that led to perhaps the most famous cavalry charge in history, immortalized by Tennyson's poem. Besides standard time-space analysis and you-were-there personal accounts, Mr. Adkin introduces the element of topography and what can be seen from where which influenced decision-making at the moment. This is the sort of historical detective work that should be applauded and I liken it to plotting the location of shell casings found at the Custer battlefield site to infer cavalry troop movements. I used THE CHARGE as a reference to develop a computer game and found it invaluable. It has order of battle for the armies involved and maps that locate units at certain times. I recommend this book for any student of military history interested in finding out why decisions were made as well as an excellent account of the battle.	2005-01-21
US	46391573	R189TP5WPGSZH8	0399151737	119889143	The Watchmen	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	LIKE HIS ASSASSIN, MR ALTMAN IS A MASTER	How many countless thrillers have been written about Nazi villans and how few about Communist evildoers? Which shows the leftist slant of our literatti. To my knowledge THE WATCHMEN is the first novel about Al Qaeda so I was eager to read it. Despite a slow start, THE WATCHMEN did not disappoint. The writing is taut, spare, gritty and tough, the mood shadowy. Mr. Altman tries his best to give a human face to the Al Qaeda characters yet he remains on the American side of the fence. \\"Men sleep peacefully in their beds at night because rough men stand ready to do violence on their behalf.\\" George Orwell, had he written that today, could have been talking about the the interrogators or watchmen who are necessary to gain information in the fight against radical Islam which would destroy the West. Some of the philosophical conflict in THE WATCHMEN concerns appropriate or ethical interrogation techniques. But mostly THE WATCHMEN is a straight line thriller about an assassin hired to kill an Al Qaeda prisoner kept in a safehouse in the cold and wet American Northwest, a safehouse that is more fortress than house. And the assassin is no ordinary assassin but a master of the dark art, skilled at stealth and the blade. If you're a guy you'll love the action and no-nonsense plot. There is little romance or love interest here to soften the story for the ladies but the characters have dimension within their job descriptions at least. The fast-moving plot doesn't allow much tarrying to flesh out full lives but THE WATCHMEN is thriller genre, after all. Like his assassin, Mr. Altman is a master, so hang on for a good ride.	2004-12-18
US	46391573	RIJ6DH81RPQOZ	038551123X	999297410	Darkly Dreaming Dexter: A Novel	Books	3	2	6	N	N	CLEVER PREMISE BUT LIGHT FARE	The idea of DARKLY DREAMING DEXTER was so clever that I decided to get the book: serial killer story turned on its head. The protagonist is a serial killer who is the good guy. Dexter, a forensic blood spatter expert, only kills those who need killing such as other serial killers. Sort of like a Zorro or Robin Hood of psychopaths. However clever the premise, I couldn't slog through the execution of it. I found the writing uninspired and a little juvenile even comic book-like. Perhaps the latter impression is because I sense that this is supposed to be a witty novel or a novel with comedic elements -- but I never got the Joke. And maybe that is the fatal blow for me: the writing never takes itself seriously even though the subjects are monsters with no feelings. I will acknowledge that sustaining a witty book about such dark creatures without it becoming a parody of itself is a big order and here the writing teeters and falls to the side of not being serious enough and so for me the book doesn't work. We could mention that the characters in DARKLY DREAMING DEXTER tend to be cardboardish and the dialogue wooden but the body is already cold on this first attempt of Jeff Lindsay. The crime scene reveals to this maybe too serious detective rather light fare; buy it for the novelty but don't expect much.	2004-11-07
US	46391573	R2X2V9P0V3D07B	0060529148	356154174	Give Me a Break: How I Exposed Hucksters, Cheats, and Scam Artists and Became the Scourge of the Liberal Media...	Books	5	2	8	N	N	EXPOSING ILLOGIC AND STUPIDITY	Back when I was still watching network programs I recall first seeing John Stossel on 20/20. His logic and reasoning was so clear and direct and refreshing that I even taped one of his segments to show friends. But he is on TV too infrequently so it was with excitement that I purchased his book, GIVE ME A BREAK, HOW I ETC. And I wasn't disappointed. His book is less about his personal life than about a career of exposing illogic and stupidity to the light of day, usually of a liberal nature. Working in the liberal environment of television, this required no small amount of courage and perserverence on Mr. Stossel's part. His pin pricks deflate many liberal balloons. For example, he explains how labor laws protect union jobs at the expense of the taxpayer and by denying opportunity to deserving nonunion workers. Another example: government handouts to American Indians gave them no incentive to work and better themselves with the result that they are poor, unemployed and with the least life expectancy. Another: \\"greed, when exercised in the private sector, is useful\\". High salaries paid to corporate bosses reflect their worth in terms of their ability to make money for stockholders. And on and on...GIVE ME A BREAK is a primer on using commonsense in the world and John Stossel is the Ben Franklin of our age. This is a book to give friends or children or yourself to clear the cobwebs from your head generated by fuzzy (liberal) thinking. The truth in this book is what you wish your parents had taught you and what should be taught in every public school in America. Keep GIVE ME A BREAK by your bedside and read a \\"verse\\" before going to sleep each night. You'll think better for it.	2004-11-05
US	46391573	R182YU2BTWEI1A	0060083956	843453239	Mr. Paradise	Books	3	0	0	N	N	NOT PARADISE BUT GOOD ENOUGH FOR ELMORE LEONARD FANS	Elmore Leonard returns to Detroit for the setting of MR PARADISE after a number of books set in Florida. I don't know about you but I like Florida for the setting of crime novels. Something about the tropical decadence of Florida: Miami, the Everglades, bikini-clad girls on white beaches, neon, plastic pink flamingos, palm trees, colorful shirts and sunglasses. But in MR PARADISE we are not back in paradise but in Michigan where an old rich geezer named Mr Padadise changes his mind about giving his house upon his death to a servant of many years. Which is a mistake because the servant gets pissed off and takes matters into his own hands. Other characters include two beautiful girls, roommates, one a call girl and the other a model, a savvy detective who finds himself involved with a female witness, two less than brilliant hit men and a corrupt lawyer. The writing is vintage Leonard who, along with hip, snappy prose, has an unerring ear for street dialogue. However, the plot and characterizations of MR PARADISE seem a little thin; I am left not caring too much about what happens to anyone in the novel. Still, the arrival of a new Elmore Leonard crime novel is usually a cause for celebration for his dedicated fans and this is no exception. Count me among his fans.	2004-11-04
US	46391573	R138YZUJOSZE55	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	FINELY- WRITTEN AND WELL-RESEARCHED WW I NAVAL HISTORY	Robert Massie won the Pulitzer Prize for Biography (PETER THE GREAT: HIS LIFE AND WORLD) so there are some credentials here. He also wrote DREADNOUGHT and the curious reader may wonder what is in this book and not in DREADNOUGHT and vice-versa because much of this book is about dreadnoughts, the \\"castles of steel\\" of the title. In CASTLES OF STEEL, Mr. Massie takes us through the naval history of WW I from the hunt for the German warship Goeben in the Mediterranean to the climatic (and anticlimatic) battle of Jutland to the defeat of the U-boats. It is quite a story and covers the political events in as much detail as the naval actions. It is fascinating to learn how the Allies did finally defeat the U-boats and exactly what caused America to enter the war. The battle of Dogger Bank is  described as is the Gallipoli Campaign and Room 40. The personalities and lives of the major players are related including love affairs and rivalries. President Woodrow Wilson's role in trying to broker a peace before finally throwing in the towel is recounted. With 880 some pages there is plenty of detail and you can image the research that went into writing CASTLES OF STEEL. Mr. Massie certainly knows his ships and his writing is entertaining. The only complaint I have is Mr. Massie's irritating habit of revealing the outcome of a battle before the battle is over. Spoils the suspense a bit. Still, this is a finely-written and well-researched general history about a nearly forgotten but massive conflict.	2004-11-01
US	46391573	R1BBYVEDUFAPHL	1400054184	925221592	How to Talk to a Liberal (If You Must): The World According to Ann Coulter	Books	4	11	23	N	N	ENTERTAINING AND MUSCULAR PROSE	When I write a review I try to tell the reader what he or she can expect from the book based on my personal perspective. So, I must say that HOW TO TALK TO A LIBERAL (IF YOU MUST) is not a primer on how to debate a liberal. (Actually, I think that would make a good book idea.) Instead, Ann Coulter's fourth book is primarily a collection of her columns. The book does include an 18-page introduction to the columns titled \\"How To Talk To A Liberal\\". The introduction provides nine \\"rules\\" which apply more to a talk show \\"expert\\" talking to liberals or to conservative political wonks than it does to us ordinary folk talking to friends or relatives or some stranger at a party who may be spouting some liberal nonesense. But a collection of Ms. Coulter's columns is be a good thing for many who don't see them in their local newspapers. She suggests that her columns can be used to talk to liberals by example. That well may be but I think something more general would be more useful as, for example, my own rule: if a liberal claims something outrageous, ask her or him to give an example. They usually can't. Another rule: don't let them change subjects. They will when they realize they are losing the argument. A third rule: don't let them get away with calling you a name. They like to use ad hominum attacks rather than logical thinking. If you boil Ms. Coulter's columns down to their essential conservative ideas and commit them to memory, they may be useful when refuting liberal ideas, claims or accusations. But I just enjoy reading her columns for their literary value. Her writing reminds me of George MacDonald Fraser's Flashman series: she uses humor and a brisk intelligence with an entertaining and muscular prose to expose liberals much like Mr. Fraser exposes the idiotic buffoonery of certain nineteeth century personalities. Perhaps some would say she writes with a combination of satire and in-your-face political commentary.	2004-10-15
US	46391573	RI7EOJYSSXUHP	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	2	15	19	N	N	BIAS LIKE FLAK OVER TOKYO	I got FLYBOYS in a moment of weakness from a telesales guy calling for a book club. Ordinarily, I wouldn't have bought the book as it didn't sound that interesting but since I now had it, I decided to go ahead and read it. FLYBOYS is a mix of narrative and anecdotal history of WW II in the Pacific. I don't like this approach to my history; I prefer straight narrative. If I want anecdotal, I'll read a novel. So right off I wasn't very happy. But then I got into the author's bias against the United States and my opinion of this book fell even more. To be fair, parts of the book are interesting, especially how General Curtis LeMay figured out how to conduct successful B-29 air raids over Japan. FLYBOYS is basically the story of how the air arm of the US won the Pacific war. But even the narrative history is watered down because of all the anecdotal stuff. The bias is not that author James Bradley is wrong in pointing out that Americans have been guilty of imperialism in its past and committed atrocities in WW II. Bradley's bias is in equating the THIRTY MILLION Chinese killed by the Imperial Japanese Army to 250,000 Phillipinos killed by the \\"imperial\\" United States Army during the US conquest of the Phillipines. He doesn't point out that the US gave the Phillipines its independence and that the Japanese, had they won WW II, would still be in China and maybe 100 million chinese would be dead. It is this kind of imbalance in presenting information that makes me feel he is trying to mislead the reader. Yes, we took the Southwestern US from Mexico but WE DIDN'T TAKE ALL OF MEXICO; Japan wanted all of China, Korea and Indonesia. It's just not equivalent and Bradley thinks it is. If you like anecdotal stories and some interesting details about the Pacific war then you might find FLYBOYS to be your bombing run. But beware of the bias that will come up at you like flak over Tokyo.	2004-10-13
US	46391573	R2SXEQ0PYHG5R5	0938289985	105796517	The Waterloo Campaign: June 1815 (Great Campaigns)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	VALUABLE RESOURCE OF AN IMPORTANT CAMPAIGN	THE WATERLOO CAMPAIGN begins with Napoleon's return from exile in February 1815 to his defeat and final exile to St. Helena in August. The Waterloo campaign consisted of three major battles: Ligny, Quatre Bras and Waterloo. Mr. Nofi covers all three battles. He uses 16 maps to show troop positions at different times of the battles. His detailed narrative follows movements and combats of units on both sides, noting numbers of men and guns involved. What makes this book especially valuable is the complete order of battle provided in the appendices. Mr. Nofi also provides sidebar discussions of Napoleonic topics such as Musketry, The Horse at War, and Artillery of the Waterloo Campaign, and personalities such as Sir Thomas Picton, William, Prince of Orange and Michel Ney. This book had complete information for me to develop computer wargames based on the battles of Quatre Bras and Waterloo. In summary, THE WATERLOO CAMPAIGN is an excellent military history of an important campaign not only for the general reader but also for the serious student of history.	2004-09-24
US	46391573	R3I0JPROCQBP93	0156006847	297422625	The Fencing Master: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	To Me	Want to read a pot boiler mystery-thriller and not feel guilty? Want to get your daily dose of literary culture while also enjoying some decent escapism? Want to read a literate historical novel? If the answer is yes to the above, then sign up for fencing lessons from Spanish writer Arturo Perez-Reverte and get a copy of THE FENCING MASTER. First of all, cudos to Margaret Full Costa, the translator. Despite a rare blip like the use of a word like \\"nab\\" for \\"caught\\" which comes off as too hip for the material, she does a beautiful job of translating this novel from the Spanish into English. Or I think she does -- I don't really know since I haven't read the original Spanish. In any event, the English version is beautifully written. Set against the backdrop of a revolution in Spain in 1868, the character of the title, Don Jaime, is an almost 60-year old fencing master who makes his living teaching fencing in an age when pistols have made the blade obsolete. His family motto being \\"To Me\\" (meaning bring it on), Don Jaime has killed men in duels but now mostly teaches the youth of the rich who view fencing as a mere \\"sport\\". One day he meets a mysterious and beautiful younger lady who happens to be an expert with the foil. She wants to learn a special (and very lethal) fencing move Don Jaime has invented. And so the mystery begins. The novel evokes the time and place of 19th century Madrid in political turmoil. The everyday life of Don Jaime is presented convincingly as he teaches fencing in his modest quarters and meets with his discussion group in a cafe. The fencing bouts are well done and give this erudite novel a delightful swashbuckling contrast. I recommend a bout with this book but beware an attack in quarte that may well keep you up until the wee hours finishing the last 50 pages.	2004-09-20
US	46391573	R23073DZQDCEK2	0385720386	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise to Western Power	Books	4	5	9	N	Y	CAPITALISM RULES BECAUSE IT PRODUCES BETTER KILLERS	Put two armies on a field, one an army from a free culture and the other from an enslaved culture and the free culture army will win or, in the case of Cannae, recover and win. This is the thesis advanced by Victor Davis Hanson in CARNAGE AND CULTURE. Mr. Hanson uses nine battles to illustrate his ideas: Salamis, Gaugamela, Cannae, Poitiers, Tenochtitlan, Lepanto, Rorke's Drift, Midway and Tet. In each case, he shows the efficiency of warrior-killers produced by more capitalistic, freer cultures, prizing indivilual freedoms and individual initiative. For example, during the Tet offensive some 40,000 Viet Cong and North Vietnamese soldiers were killed but only 1000 to 2000 Americans. This efficiency is the result of a citizenship of free men fighting for their freedom, of economically freer cultures able to produce better weapons, of the western idea of decisive battle where the enemy is brought to battle and annihilated, of individuals not afraid to improvise and take initiative, of a culture where free inquiry, rational thinking and science are traditions. In a phrase, it is the result of Western culture. Mr Hanson does not say that the Other warrior is not brave or not intelligent or that he is inferior in any way. Sometimes their generals were even brilliant as was Hannibal at Cannae. And sometimes Western forces are led by fools and isolated and wiped out as the British were at Isandlwanda by the Zulus. But he is saying that the Other culture, which is often despotic, irrational, not capitalistic, and which discourages science and penalizes initiative, explains why they eventually lose to the West. This argument is very convincing. My only complaint is that Mr. Hanson makes this argument over and over and about a third of this 506-page book could have been edited out. Nevertheless, the descriptions of the battles are very well done and fascinating. CARNAGE AND CULTURE is a great book for the general history buff and for anyone interested in how culture affects the outcome of wars. Most of all, the reader will gain a perhaps previously unrealized appreciation for our western traditions of capitalism and democracy and individual freedoms: they have saved the West from conquest by producing better killers. Otherwise, we might all be speaking Arabic and praying to Allah today.he outcome of wars. Most of all, the reader will gain a perhaps previously unrealized appreciation for our western traditions of capitalism and democracy and individual freedoms: they have saved the West from conquest by producing better killers. Otherwise, we might all be speaking Arabic and praying to Allah today.	2004-08-04
US	46391573	R2QANBVQTZD6I0	1582344582	189606253	Every Time I Talk to Liston: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	GET IN THE RING WITH THIS ONE	Sports novels have been a favorite genre of mine since I was a boy. Whether baseball, poker or golf, the subject sport itself has a built-in dramatic framework of conflict. And so, I was eager to read Brian DeVito's debut novel about boxing. Mr.DeVito knows his boxing - he was a Golden Gloves heavyweight champ - and it shows in EVERY TIME I TALK TO LISTON. Full of pugilistic craft and insights, ETITTL should be required reading for any young man who wants to enter the sport. DeVito is also a sure-footed writer who can change scenes faster than a Sonny Liston jab, which keeps the story moving forward. The author, who is white, manages to convincingly portray black characters. There are a number of well-etched fight scenes for the ring-side boxing fan and interesting bits of Sonny Liston lore for the history-of-boxing fan. I never thought of Sonny Liston in a very favorable light before I read this book, but now I see him much more sympathetically. If you like sports novels, put on your gloves and get in the ring with this one.	2004-07-12
US	46391573	R3LK1VZY2T2RT1	0679421750	622570340	The Paperboy	Books	4	3	5	N	N	KEEPS YOUR ATTENTION	Florida seems a popular setting for novels these days. And so THE PAPERBOY is set in northern Florida. A sheriff has been killed and a swamp redneck put on death row for the murder. Some &quot;paperboys&quot; for the Miami Times investigate the conviction. What unravels as a result of the ensuing Pulitzer Prize winning story by investigative repoters Ward James and Yardley Acheman is more than a death sentence repreive and effects all involved. Lives change and relationships change. Therein lies the tale. Suffice it to say that crusading liberal journalism can be both questionable in practice and have unintended negative consequences. This is an absorbing, beautifully written novel that keeps your attention from page one. Part newspaper story, part family story, part murder mystery it falls into a category all its own. Pete Dexter employs a spare, realistic style that takes its energy from the dark side of human nature. THE PAPERBOY may be more life as it really is than life as we wish it to be but then maybe that is one definition of good literature. Recommended highly. Four and a half bylines out of five.	2004-07-04
US	46391573	R343U5ZABZCL5M	1565123565	80321865	Brave Enemies: A Novel of the American Revolution (Shannon Ravenel Books)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	GRITTY, REALISTIC, POWERFUL	Comparisons to COLD MOUNTAIN are in order. BRAVE ENEMIES, too, is a love story set during the brutality and misfortune of a civil war. Here it is the American Revolutionary War with patriots and loyalists hanging each other and burning down each other's homes as well as the militia and redcoats doing battle. But while CM is burdened and slowed by literary pretensions, BRAVE ENEMIES is a fast-moving and entertaining tale, without heavy-handed symbolism or repeated flashbacks, of sixteen year old Josie Summers and John Trethman, a young itinerant Methodist minister, who fall in love and then are separated by the war. Being a history buff, I liked the realistic feel of the novel. The descriptions of the time and place, the clothes, food, weapons, homes, all seemed well-researched. And the battle of Cowpens was presented brilliantly. I feel like I was there. My only complaint is that the description of John's religious services went on too long in a couple places but that is a minor quibble. This is a gritty, realistic book, well-written, full of action and with a couple powerful sex scenes from the woman's point of view. Robert Morgan scores a double with BRAVE ENEMIES in that this is a novel I think both men and women will enjoy. Five cannonballs out of five.	2004-06-27
US	46391573	R2LGFZENDLKRDO	192963112X	882956299	The Battle of the Casbah: Terrorism and Counter-terrorism in Algeria, 1955-1957	Books	4	9	26	N	Y	Model For The Current Struggle Against Muslim Radicals	This could have been a stunning book, written by a major player in the Battle of Algiers. Instead, it is a poorly written memoir with little literary value. Perhaps the translator is at fault or the author, Paul Aussaressess, is just a hack writer. But the writing is choppy, desultory, in a word, bad. Having said all that, I must say The Battle of the Casbah is an object lesson for the fight against modern Muslim terrorists. Why? BECAUSE THE FRENCH WON THE BATTLE OF ALGIERS! This books shows how they won that battle. To a world fifty years removed from that conflict the idea of torture and summary executions and forgetting civil rights may seem harsh. But when confronted with stone cold killer terrorists who blow up restaurants and kill women and children the remedy MUST be extra-legal or civilization is the loser. I recommend this book to anyone involved on the front lines against those Mulim extremists who seek the deaths of Christians and the fall of the West. There is only one way we can win this war and the model is right here: The Battle of the Casbah.	2004-05-22
US	46391573	R3C2T821EMQXHE	0446613444	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	NOIR AND DULL	The second harry Bosch novel, THE BLACK ICE, disappoints. Primarily because the character of Harry Bosch steps into the background. By that I mean the reader learns little new about loner, rebel cop Harry Bosch. That plus there is little action or conflict and thus little narrative tension. And the setting for the novel which is mainly in border Mexico is painted dull and drab and gray. Yawn. And I am a Harry Bosch fan. I plan on continuing in the Bosch series because I like the character and have hopes the author will do better. THE BLACK ICE does have a good bull fight scene and the mystery was logically, plausibly plotted. And one still gets the feeling we have a real working cop here in Harry Bosch. Not some fake fictional cop but the real thing. It is definitely noir but dull. Do better Connelly.	2004-05-08
US	46391573	R22IKC7L5VSLMH	0312275390	679535408	The Last King: Rome's Greatest Enemy	Books	3	27	32	N	N	A GOOD HISTORY LESSON BUT NOT A GOOD NOVEL	I hadn't heard of King Mithradates the Great of Pontus so, from an educational standpoint, THE LAST KING was worth reading. Mithradates suffered some of the worst luck imaginable in that three of Rome's greatest generals commanded armies against him. Still, with determination and intelligence, he managed to be quite a thorn in Rome's side for many years. This is basically the story Mr. Ford tells. As history, this is an easy lesson to absorb but as fiction it is not up to the caliber of good historical fiction because, mainly, the characters and dialogue are comic bookish. Despite King Mithradates's son being the protagonist and the story viewpoint being from the Pontusian side, I still rooted for stodgy, efficient Rome. In other words, Mr. Ford gave me little reason to care for those people. But the story moves fairly quickly and several of the the battle scenes are very well written. Three Roman legions out of five.	2004-04-27
US	46391573	R3T21PNF9TIKEV	0385505914	870481550	Train: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	QUIRKY, GOTHIC, GOOD	&quot;...this was not an ordinary citizen of Beverly Hills...He probably never threatened anyone in his life. He would skip that step.&quot;<br />That brief passage from TRAIN describes Miller Packard, a detective, who befriends a young black caddy named Lionel Walk, nicknamed &quot;Train&quot;, and serves as an example of Pete Dexter's raw, spare writing.<br />Set in pre-integration California, TRAIN examines the societal relationship between the races that existed then, using a noir style as the vehicle. Given that background, TRAIN in particular is a love story and the story of a friendship between Train and Packard. Golf is also featured prominently in the novel and Mr. Dexter knows his golf, using terms and insights into the game that give this almost a sports novel feel.<br />At times violent and at times quirky, almost gothic, TRAIN also explores the human psyche with a sharp understanding of people and their motives, both base and higher.<br />If you enjoy excellent writing, a fast-paced story, penetrating character analysis, realistic action and high-stakes golf, be sure to catch this five-star train for a good read.	2004-04-19
US	46391573	RLZBIHU31QPPF	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	2	9	12	N	N	INSTRUCTIVE BUT BORING	Robert Harris' novel, POMPEII, is an instructive book. The reader learns about the Roman aqueduct system and about erupting volcanos. She also learns about the effects of the exploding volcano on the town of Pompeii and the people in it. The reader is also learns how people lived in 79 AD, what they wore, what they ate, their customs and religious observations. It's all very instructive and....(yawn)....very boring.<br />Unfortunately, the novel framework around all this research is weak and falls apart long before Vesuvious blows its top.<br />Perhaps the worst transgressions in POMPEII are the cartoonish characters, cardboard thin and sterotypical. Hate that, don't you?<br />There is the evil contractor, the learned philospoher, the upright, honest hero, the innocent maiden in distress.<br />Give me a break!<br />There is very little action in the book except running around trying to find the leak in the aqueduct or dodging falling rock fropm the eruption. The best action takes place when a hapless slave was fed to a nasty eel as punishment for killing some fish.<br />There aren't even any (...) scenes in libidinous ancient Rome!<br />I think this was a good idea and there is a good novel in in all this somewhere. Robert Harris just didn't manage to find it this time.<br />But I learned a lot and there is something to be said for that: two volcanos out of five.	2004-04-08
US	46391573	R85G1TVYYX0G1	0688072526	868609917	Duel of Eagles: The Mexican and U.S. Fight for the Alamo	Books	4	6	12	N	N	BIASED BUT BRILLIANT	To be precise, DUEL OF EAGLES is the story of the Texas War of Independence not just the fight for the Alamo. While Jeff Long styles his book as the \\"Mexican and US fight\\", the US government stayed at arms length the whole time. Texas independence from Mexico was won by immigrants into Texas and Texas colonists and not US troops. Jeff Long examines the motives of major players on both sides of this conflict from Santa Anna to Sam Houston as well as the economic and historical background of the time. He portrays the Texas side as greedy speculators and land-grabbers, con artists and frauds. The Mexican side gets off better in his view, being more civilized and the largely innocent victims of the struggle. This reader could not help but see a bias against the Anglo-Saxon side on the part of Mr. Long. While I don't doubt his conclusions are true that many Texians, among them Texas historic icons, were crooks, cheats, murderers and losers, his occasionally non-nuetral language betrays his agenda. The last chapter is almost fully devoted to the depradations of the victorious Texians against Mexicans living in Texas and the beginnings of a violent racism against the Mexican race by the Anglos. This all may unfortunately be true but seems beyond the bounds of a military history and occurs after the war ended. But this gratuitous rambling helps to cement Mr. Long's indictment of the Anglos. This is my only complaint. Otherwise, DUEL OF EAGLES is chock full of information with lots of backend notes and brilliantly tells the story of a fascinating chapter of US history.	2004-03-25
US	46391573	R1L18U4F4Y6D2L	0060512474	692396631	A World of Thieves: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	NOT BLAKE'S BEST BUT STILL GOOD ENOUGH	It is cliche but A WORLD OF THIEVES is not James Carlos Blake's best work. The writing style seems flat or maybe controlled, not full of the vibrancy and literary energy of RED GRASS RIVER or IN ROGUE BLOOD. My best guess is that Mr. Blake decided to write a more subdued tale, a little quieter, more subtle than the others and it came out less passionate. A WORLD didn't win any book awards where both RED GRASS and IN ROGUE did, a fact which helps makes my point. But all this is only comparing Blake to Blake and Blake is the best. A WORLD OF THIEVES is still full of action and adventure and it brings to life the 1920's in Texas and Louisiana. You have roadsters and oil wells and speakeasys and boom towns and New Orleans and West Texas. The action includes fisticuffs (our hero is a champion boxer), prison escapes, gun battles and holdups. A particularly sinister villain adds menace to the tale. And there is a love story and a boy-coming-of-age story here as well. Plenty for the Blake fan. Not his best but still pretty good. I give it three and a half shotgun shells out of five.	2004-02-22
US	46391573	R34BRBDCL257JU	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	2	1	2	N	N	A Waste of Time	Now a major motion picture, as they say, Timeline is about time travel, archaeology and the Hundred Years War. It is also about an evil corporation (again!) trying to profit from off-the-wall science a la Jurassic Park. Being interested in the Middle Ages, I decided to suspend disbelief about the time travel gimmick and see what happened: I put myself in the author's hands. Sure enough, the first chapters involving the archaeology dig in France and the strange accidents and the first time travel scenes were pretty fun. But then the novel went downhill. Having arrived in 1357, I soon wanted to go back to the present and read Barbara Tuchman's A Distant Mirror instead of Michael Crichton's cartoonish world peopled with cardboard stereotypes. Mr Crichton doesn't really have the bent for an historical novelist but he tries to be one for much of the book. If you like medieval history you may find this book only worth checking out of the library; the many historical references in the back of Timeline will send you in the right direction. Otherwise, don't waste your time on this disappointing novel. Two time capsules out of five.	2004-01-19
US	46391573	RRZ23GDXZUOPI	0060084022	788000175	The Big Bounce	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Smooth Vintage Leonard	I picked up a paperback of THE BIG BOUNCE somewhere and was thrilled because I thought it was a new Elmore Leonard. It wasn't until I was halfway through the book that I discovered it was written in 1969, almost 35 years ago. That is how well this book has held up: it reads like a fresh story. And smooth. That is the word that comes to mind: the writing in THE BIG BOUNCE is smooth. It flows and moves along easily. Maybe the best writing I've read of Elmore Leonard's works and I've read many. It's a subdued, subtle story with a great fight scene and a tense house B&amp;E scene. It features Jack Ryan, maybe a little slow en la cabeza but who can swing a bat (or a tree limb) and knows a 100 ways to break into a house, and Nancy as the ambitious rich guy's GF who is more than a little psychotic. Rather than a roller coaster ride of plot twists, this novel is like like a fine vintage wine to be savored and enjoyed on the veranda with a good cigar. Get this book and light one up.	2003-12-31
US	46391573	RK5WT75VPI84T	0595175821	833496406	The Firedrake	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Symbolic Comet	This is Cecelia Holland's first novel, maybe her best, and the first book of hers that I read, and it made me an instant fan of Ms Holland. It is now a classic of historical fiction. Her prose is economical, which may be almost unique among historical fiction writers who tend to be windy. This spare writing style lets the reader's imagination engage more fully. She has a knack for making horses seem incredibly true in her books, possibly from having been raised on a ranch or farm, this being a good artifice for making her fiction seem more real in eras when horses were commonplace in people's lives. One reviewer complained of a lack of conflict in THE FIREDRAKE. One wonders what type of conflict they want. Surely the Norman invasion of England was more than a dart-throwing contest at your corner pub. Our protagonist in THE FIREDRAKE, the knight-mercenary Laeghaire, alone in a world of chaos and anarchy in a time when most such men were bound to a leige lord seems another major issue of conflict: one man against the world. Don't we all feel like that sometimes? Of course, William the Bastard seeks to make Laeghaire his own man, another point of contention. I see Laeghaire as the Modern Man born in the wrong century. Myself, I rooted for Harold Godwinson and his grim shield wall on Senlac Ridge in the climatic battle scene of the book, but then I've always tended to support an honorable underdog. The firedrake was a comet and THE FIREDRAKE is a symbolic comet, announcing Ms Holland's arrival as argueably our foremost writer of historical fiction.	2003-12-31
US	46391573	R2A9Q6AA3B9XIK	0141000023	284000734	The Gates of the Alamo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Make A Movie Of This One!	Here we have 500+ pages of great entertainment. I'm not an expert on fiction but the label \\"epic\\" might fit THE GATES OF THE ALAMO as our botanist protagonist finds himself in Texas and Mexico and the Yucatan, on the Gulf Coast and, finally, at the Alamo in an historic battle. The book's prose uses the third person so viewpoints from all sides are given, including such historic icons as Santa Anna and James Bowie. Reading the last few pages, I had to wipe away the tears and I'm not someone who blubbers like that so easily. The author doesn't romanticize life in early-1800's Texas so we read about how hard life was then. The pages describing the long march made by the Mexican army from Mexico into Texas during winter is particularly disturbing. I remember only one or maybe two sex scenes in 500 pages so I don't understand the problem there. The Alamo fight is given plenty of attention and is thrilling and tragic with some interesting new ideas about how the battle took place. While my interest in botany is near zero and I sometimes found the native plant information to be a little much, on reflection it gave me a deeper feeling for what Texas was like by being exposed to the botanical dimension of the area. Plus this was at a time when amateur science was getting very popular and so it fits the times and the character. I'd like to see a movie made of this novel. I give it 5 and a half native fauna out of 5.	2003-12-29
US	46391573	R1LB4F3BPSX2KC	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Dark And Gloomy Tale Of Civil War South	It took me several attempts before I could finally get into this novel because it starts out so slowly. The story of a deserter who struggles to return home to his sweetheart, waiting for him back at Cold Mountain and who is going through her own trials,  is dark and gloomy; there is little joy in this tale. On the plus side, Charles Frazier, the author, has a real affinity for Civil War era rural South and uses language well to give the reader the feel of what life was like then. However, while undoubtedly there was much hardship, somehow COLD MOUNTAIN seems an unbalanced representation, both historically and emotionally, of those times. The writing style tends to call attention to itself and there is the annoying absence of quotes for dialogue, but altogether I have to admit I found the writing powerful and sometimes quite beautiful. This is a literate novel and a flaw is that it is too obviously intended to be literate. It seems to have sold well but it is not written as a popular novel; it reads more like something we were assigned to read in sophomore English Lit. If Frazier would try writing for the general reader and not try so hard to impress his university friends, he could write a hell of a good novel. Meanwhile, for a great book on the Civil War, one that is very readable and entertains the reader as well as being good literature, try KILLER ANGELS by Michael Shaara.	2003-12-27
US	46391573	R2NS9XRF6NDGJH	0380977516	414693760	Under the Skin: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Elmore Leonard With Teeth	This novel by James Carlos Blake reminds me of Elmore Leonard but tougher, maybe a little darker. Set in Texas and Mexico, it is a crime novel with the flavor of a later-day western. Since Pancho Villa appears briefly in the story it can be considered an historical western, but why quibble? On the back of the hardback, there is a quote from The Washingston Post about another of Mr. Blake's books but speaking of his work in general. \\"He knows in his bones,\\" the Post reviewer declares of Mr. Blake, \\"that violence is at the heart of American history.\\" Huh? Did this reviewer skip World History 101? The bloody tapestry of European history, woven with pogroms, inquisitions, psychotic rulers, incessant religious wars and ethnic cleansing, makes American history look like a Manhattan cocktail party.  What we are talking about here is conflict. A novel without conflict is hardly a novel at all. Conflict resolution is at the heart of any story. Mr. Blake has chosen the crime genre for his current subject and the resolution of conflict among gangsters is -- yep, you guessed it --often violent. If you like Elmore Leonard, you will enjoy \\"Under The Skin\\".	2003-07-13
US	46391573	R35R52NTYWUHJB	0805062882	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943 (The Liberation Trilogy, Vol. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Little Known Story Reads Like A Novel	This is literate, entertaining history. The untried, unbloodied American army staggers onto the shores of Africa in 1942 and through comic misadventure, astonishing incompetence and tragic misfortune in the end learns from its mistakes and becomes a fighting force able to defeat the enemy. Atkinson has obviously had access to the letters, diaries and papers of the principal actors in this drama, allowing him to convey the feelings and thoughts of men like Patton and Ike. However, unlike Stephen Amnbrose's &quot;D-Day&quot;, where eye-witness accounts dominated and fragmented that book, Atkinson seems to realize that the narrative is the main thing and, as such, he uses personal accounts to add to but not disrupt the flow of the story. &quot;An Army At Dawn&quot; reads like a novel and Atkinson writes with a novelist's flair. This is a little-told or little-known story; much is known about the American army in Europe in WWII but my guess is that not as much has been written about the Ameican experince in Africa. There might be a reason why: it wasn't pretty at first. A nation might need a few decades to be able to absorb that the Conquerors weren't always supermen, that at times they were badly organized, that at times they shamefully ran, that at times they were soundly beaten and that at times they took heavy casualties. Yet, they eventually rose to the challenge and the army at dawn provided the experience and backbone for the invasion of Europe. Highly recommended.	2003-07-03
US	46391573	R3NW3M7921P2RX	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	1	11	25	N	Y	Over Rated Hodgepodge	I'm sorry, you Ambrose worshippers, but this book positively stinks. I know I will be hunted down and stoned for my dissenting view but I call it the way I see it. This book is barely more than a collection of accounts from indviduals thrown together between two covers. It even has the feel of being hastily thrown together to meet a deadline. At first, that sounds good: eye-witness stories to the famous D-Day battle. What could be better than that? But I found it hard to get an impression of what was happening over all. One is not able to see the forest because of the trees. The individual stories jump from one place and time to another, seemingly without design. Ambrose himself provides little narrative binding to the stew. Each of the individual stories are told in their own words so there is no single narrative style from them and Ambrose has zero writing style so the book lacks not only a narrative thread and but a narrative style as well. In other words, it is not a good story. Ambrose does provide a reference to other historians of the battle and to those who enjoy reading accounts from people who were actually there. He displays the hard work and research required to dig up all those accounts. But he is not a good writer and there is no comprehensive picture of what happened that day but instead a hodgepodge of hundreds of different accounts. It's up to the reader to pull it all together. To better understand what happened that day and for a more literate and entertaining writing style I recommend trying other writers on the sunject.	2003-04-04
US	46391573	R1UG1OTC77NBWR	0316155039	498818576	The Black Echo	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fine Start To the Harry Bosch Series	This is the first Harry Bosch novel. Bosch, formerly a Nam tunnel rat, is now a detective with the LAPD. The story concerns the death of one of Bosch's fellow tunnel rats in Vietnam. Bosch is basically a loner who lives on a Hollywood hillside over looking the city lights. A beer-drinking chain smoker, he follows his own moral compass and resists pressure to conform to department standards for a LAPD detective, taking minimum guff from everyone while staying in bounds of the rules. One of the main delights of the book is trying to figure out what makes Bosch tick. He behaves like most men secretly believe they could behave: like a real man. There is not a lot of action in this book but the narrative is tightly written and the dialogue sounds true to the ear. The author also has a fine way with setting a scene. All in all, a fine start and I can't wait to start my second Harry Bosch story and learn moe about this dude Bosch.	2003-04-04
US	46391573	R10HVFXV68IUTT	0345421515	440240275	The Real James Herriot: A Memoir of My Father	Books	4	43	49	N	Y	Make it Four And A Half Bright Stars For James Herriot	It was with shock and sadness that I learned a couple yers ago that James Herriot (actually Alf Wight) had died in 1995. While I never quite managed to appreciate his veterinary stories, I was totally charmed by the TV series and had somehow just assumed he would live forever. Well, in a way, he does in the TV series and, of course, in his popular books. And now, he lives in his son Jim's fine memoir of his father. I was curious about the man behind the books and the TV series and &quot;The Real James Herrit&quot; answered many of my questions. It is a warm book that will choke you up in places. I wish there was more insight into making the TV series but that is not really a flaw as apparently that did not involve James Herriot that much. Here you will find the real James, Seigfried, Tristan and wife Joan. It's quite a story and well worth it for the Herriot fan and any one interested in knowing about a brilliant, hard-working, lovely man.	2002-12-02
US	46391573	R33E1KRHAZRBX7	0140153195	396357930	Justine (Alexandria Quartet)	Books	1	29	64	N	N	Pretentious Eyewash	This is truly a dreadful, dreadful novel. I am aghast (but not really surprised) that some critics actually think this is one of the great books of the last century. That is a joke. This may be fare for an English grad working on his Ph.D. in \\"Obscure Writing in Literature\\" but I think the average reader of novels won't waste her time on this pretentious eyewash. In the first 30 pages of \\"Justine\\" the only action that occurs is that the characters share a tin of olives in a bookstore. So forget your plot. Poetic descriptions of Alexandria fly at the reader like snowflakes in a blizzard, one after another, each flowery and beautiful, but not building on a whole, so that the reader is overwhelmed and left with no strong feeling for the city, only vague notions. What is the benefit of that? It is the job of the writer to convey impressions, not befuddle the reader. I think Durrell is a lazy writer, billiant possibly but undisciplined. The narrator of the story (if you can call this a story) similarly drones on and on with recollections of other characters from his past but in fragments, jumping from one to another character, so that, again, no tangible or even interesting impression of a subject can be built by the reader. Reading \\"Justine\\" is like eating cotton candy: all sweet and pretty pink and airy nothingness. This is considered great writing by critics, to slog through literary muck. If you want to impress your literary buddies at the next soiree, buy and read \\"Justine\\" and then, sipping your chardonnay and nibbling on you brie, you can offer, \\"I'm reading The Alexandria Quartet. Lovely writing, don't you think?\\" But, if you want a readable, entertaining, unpretentious novel, look elsewhere.	2002-11-08
US	46391573	R1EDBF76C11PBY	0140249001	372534986	Therapy	Books	3	12	28	N	Y	A Wry Look At A Midlife Crisis	August 25th. Picked up this novel about a fiftyish writer (male) of a popular British sitcom going through a midlife crisis because I can identify a bit with someone that age, because I am curious about what being a sitcom writer is all about, and because I am keen to compare midlife crises. And because I've been to London where much of this book is set and liked the city.<br />August 28th. Hmmm, Lodge's book is described as a comedy (syn. &quot;laughable&quot;), but I haven't had even a chuckle yet. I'd rather describe his writing here as wry. Better look that up in the dictionary. Let's see, &quot;wry: cleverly and often ironically or grimly humerous&quot;. Yes, that fits.<br />September 3. Refreshing to see a writer knock socialist icons like the incompetent and inadequate British Health Care System and punitively high income taxes. The use of Brit terms like &quot;boot&quot; for trunk and &quot;fry-ups&quot; for fried food and &quot;fancy&quot; for &quot;want&quot; is fun for readers who are also amateur students of language.<br />September 5. This novel could be subtitled, &quot;Or My Obsession With Kieregaard and Existentialism&quot;. The reader gets as a side benefit a bio of the sad philosopher and a brief overview of existentialism, much of which is superfluous to the story.<br />September10. On the whole, I recommend &quot;Therapy&quot;. The main character is likeable and the story unfolds with attention-holding twists and turns after a slow start.	2002-10-31
US	46391573	R27LRNADD30Z3P	0380792427	942681115	Red Grass River: A Legend	Books	4	11	11	N	N	non-stop action in prohibition-era florida	You could say I've been lost in the Florida everglades for the past few years but it's always a pleasure to discover a new author that one enjoys reading, even belatedly, and James Carlos Blake is such an author for me. His novel, Red Grass River, comes at you like a runaway freight train with non-stop action. There are fist-fights, knifings, stompings, gun battles, stalkings, bank robberies, truck robberies, smuggling and even some steamy sex for good measure. The shotgun and the BAR seem favorite weapons in Blakes's prohibition-era Florida. We watch the tenacious Ashley gang thrive and survive as bootleggers, bank robbers and rum runners. They are as good with the ladies as well as their fists and, as such, incur the emnity of the Bakers, a family of tough lawmen, in a decade-long feud. The reader is soaked in the atmosphere of Florida from 1911 to 1924. You can hear the mosquitoes buzzing in your ears, feel the sweat pouring off your skin, see the gators waiting in the swamp grass. People refer to Blake as as writer of historical fiction and certainly Red Grass River makes another time and place come alive. Girls, this is a great guy book and would make the kind of gift the manly man or would-be manly man in your life will appreciate. I give this one four gators out of five.	2002-09-20
US	46391573	R1L1364IZ8WGB0	1568581661	330011189	The Wild Numbers: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Well-Written Insight Into A Seldomly Explored World	Isaac Swift is a mediocre mathematics professor who hasn't come up with significant research since his thesis years ago. In the publish or perish world of academia, he increasingly feels pressure to produce. Desperate, he attempts to solve the famous Wild Number Theorem, a feat that would bring him fame and glory. Schogt offers the reader insight into the seldomly explored world and mind of a math professor but, don't worry, you need not know number theory to enjoy this well-written novel. We are with Isaac through his unexciting and lonely social life (his wife has left him), his interactions with students and rival professors, and his titanic struggle to solve the Wild Number problem. In the end, Isaac's problems do get solved in an unexpected and satisfying way. This is an excellent novel; the prose is accessible and the story moves forward quickly. Having an MS in Mathematics myself, I enjoyed the references to number theory that Schogt, himself mathematically trained, cleverly uses to make the non-existent Wild Number Theorem almost seem like a real problem in mathematics. I wanted to get out my pencil and, like Isaac, plunge into solving this problem! Still, all readers, including the math-challenged, will enjoy this universal human story. I give this novel four theorem proofs out of five.	2002-09-18
