US	46462096	R23ATCQW7J3P99	1574888498	892390637	Imperial Hubris: Why the West is Losing the War on Terror	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Cutting through the Bull****.	This book is blunt, no doubt about it. The author states firmly and passionately that the US is losing the war against Militant Islam. He does not mince words, he's not politically correct and I have a sinking feeling that he is correct.  <br />A war against 'terror' and 'terrorists' implies a few crackpots huddled around in a cave haphazardly throwing bombs into crowds on occasion. This is the exact opposite of what the US is facing now. Bin Laden and Al Queda has developed a worldwide organization with very specific goals and very specific plans on how to achieve those goals. There is nothing mad or insane about these people and a surprising (to US eyes) number of muslims consider them as Islamist heroes, not evil villians. The Islamists are winning the 'hearts and minds' of the people, not the US. <br />The author's knowledge  of Islam and the Arab world is complete, he's been there and he knows what he's talking about. Again he is very blunt in his criticisms of US policy but he is not partisan - he savages both democrats and republicans, Presidents Bush and Clinton equally, for their, in his view, inept and naive treatment of both Bin Laden and the rise of Militant Islam.  <br />His main point is simple and straightforward - The US has no clue about Arab Culture, Arab Religion or Arab History, and simply does not understand the motivation of the Jihadists or even the concept of Jihad itself. The Islamists are on a holy crusade, not the US, they're expelling the infidels from their holy lands and Allah and the Koran are on their side, not the US. Thats the war the Islamists insurgents (not terrorists) are fighting and the US is losing. The Islamists see this war as the worldwide revolt against 500 years of Western domination, the US see a single 'event' with a few mad criminals to punish for a dastardly act. Bin Laden uses the Koran itself to justify his acts while the US uses non-existent WMDs to justify the invasion of Iraq.    <br />Read this book - really. And then hope that those in the White House and the Congress are reading this book. Because there will soon be another 'event' and then another. <br /> <br />	2005-08-12
US	46462096	R1VNQFE7TSBUG7	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	2	43	69	N	N	What cultural mirrors are..a minor point	Mr Goldberg has some good points, that's obvious. American 'culture' (I mean societal/moral values) does seem to be in a state of turmoil. Is American culture getting coarser? In some ways, I'd have to say yes. But are Ludacris or Enimem or Barbra(?) to blame? I don't think so.  <br /> Simply 'Hollywood' only sells what America will buy. Mel Gibson and Michael Moore both exist because America is willing to buy what they sell. Same for Enya, Pat Robertson, Al Franken and Bernard Goldberg.  <br /> America wants reality shows so 'Hollywood' gives them reality shows. Nobody, last time I checked, is forced to watch 'Survivor' at gunpoint or 'Sex and the City' or 'Hee-Haw'. Those shows are on television becasue many people watch them. Was it a triumph for America when 'Xena' went off the air? <br />'Hollywood' simply reflects America changing tastes not the other way around. 'Hollywood' does not give America 'moral values' it caters to what America is willing to buy. <br />To point a finger and say '*****' is solely to blame for America's (supposed)societal/moral decline is simplistic at best and morally wrong at worse. Societal mores naturally evolve with time. Just ask those who espoused Prohibition in the 20's or bemoaned Elvis in the 50's. Birth control, inter-racial marriage and the mini skirt (women voting?) all were touted as signs of Americas' moral decline yet Americas still here. <br /> So are these hundred truly screwing up America? No, they just reflect America as it truly is; a multicultural and dynamic society. A littler rougher, a little bluer then some would like. But still America.   <br />	2005-07-15
US	46462096	R3NL9UA4FQ9PUR	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Philosophy of Living	How would you live today if you knew, for a cold absolute fact, that you and everyone else was going to die tomorrow? No escape, no chance for escape, what would you do? <br /> 'Not with a bang, but with a whimper'. The genius of this book, to me, is the description of the small events that make this book such a classic. The pogo stick, the bench for the lawn, the drinking of 6,000 bottles of excellent Port all open a door to these characters' souls,the reasons for continuing to live when there simply is no future to live for. The cross section of humanity in this book face the end, their end, with a majesty and a grace that is both inspiring and humbling as a triumph of the human spirit in the face of overwhelming annihilation.    <br /> The book was written in the 50's and it has dated a little bit. But in so many ways, its appeal is timeless. Anyone can visualize the absolute horrors (and the folly of 'winning') of a thermonuclear war with the contemplation of the simple act of injecting a radiation sick infant child with poison, especially your own. Kindness is two little pills in a red box. Everybody dies, but the manner of their dying is theirs' to decide. This book is simply a classic. <br />	2005-07-08
US	46462096	R36214068DMLEI	0670032735	748219420	The Book on Bush: How George W. (Mis)leads America	Books	5	14	22	N	N	Chilling..thought provoking and very scary	If you want to understand the mindset of George Bush, read this book. If you want to understand the U.S. invasion of Iraq, read this book. If you want to understand the foreign policies of this administration, read this book. If you want to truly understand the benefits of the 'Tax Cuts' read this book. If you want to understand the environmental and societal policies of this administration, read this book. Because its all here in black and white. <br /> <br />And if you love 'America' or the basic values that 'America' once stood for, read this book. Because We as Americans has been blind deaf and dumb too long.	2005-05-18
US	46462096	R21CXXC84F2SOZ	0140067132	201003879	Zuleika Dobson: or An Oxford Love Story	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Willing Suspension of Sanity	A gay exercise in the writing of the most purple of prose? A parable of great cosmic truths and little human lies? Or a satire that would gladden the cold heart of Jonathan Swift? Beats the dickens out of me..<br /><br />\\"The Great Max\\" has written one 'snorter' of a novel here. The entire premise is absurd, the characters totally ridiculous and the outcome is totally mad. Yet I was swept up in the whole crazy affair of Zulieka coming to Judas. Every mad action is made both insane and somehow totally believable in the whirlpool that is her beauty. And so hangs the story...<br /><br />Is this book \\"great\\" literature? That I can't answer. But boy it sure was a heck of alot of fun to read!	2005-03-18
US	46462096	R1IHUFDXI5O1DU	0062513133	498146104	Paris Was a Woman: Portraits from the Left Bank	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An all too brief glimpse of Genius	There was a greatness there in these women, in that time. They loved Paris and France and the freedom and the people they met there. They came alive living and loving in a city that seemed to inspire them to certain greatness. Poets, writers, artists their talents ran the gamut of art.    For some, their fame was brief  - Bryher, H.D. even Djuna Barnes are mere footnotes now if they noted at all. Others, Natalie Barney, Dolly Wilde are notorious for Who they were ..not What they actually did.     Janet Flanner and Mina Loy are names that some might dimly recall. And there is Gertrude Stein and Alice Toklas, who came to personify 'the special relationship' that bound them so tightly together.   The specialness of this book is the use of so much 'private' writing - what they wrote and thought of each other in their own words. The writing is brilliant introspective provocative and sometimes banal. Gertrude wanted to be published, Thelma loved Djuna years after their breakup and Janet managed to stay friends with everyone. There are many photos as well, lavishly illustrated is not an understatement here.   If there is a quibble, a minor one, the book is all too short, I wished it had been longer. Shari Benstock's \\"Women of the Left Bank' is a more in-depth look at the same women and time, tho with a stronger emphasis on the sexual nature of the relationships. But this is a well written and very readable book.   Update. I have now seen the movie 'Paris was a Woman' I would recommend both as companion pieces.But I would read the book before I saw the movie.	2005-02-07
US	46462096	R380VSJ1GQAWJ1	0044400675	873162710	Geniuses Together: American Writers in Paris in the 1920's	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A folksy social history...very readable	This is not a dry 'History' book chocked full of facts and dates and footnotes, it is a very readable and enjoyable book about certain people (American Literati) at a certain place (Paris and surrounding area) at a certain time (1920's).    They came to Europe in search of the illusive 'something' (Fame, Fortune, Notoriety)  or maybe just to get away from the perceived 'sameness' of America. They found all that plus alcohol, sex, and each other.    For the period they gamboled and drank and had sex and fought ..and occasionally wrote. Out of all this interaction there were some of the great books of American Literature written. Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Stein, the books 'The Sun Also Rises', 'The Great Gatsby' and the blazing meteor that was Joyce and his 'Ulysses'. Paris was a seemingly endless party (or Moveable Feast)and then it was over.   But there were lesser (or less well known) talents that somehow made that time 'The time'. Loy, Beach, Barnes, McAlmon, Boyle are fascinating in their own regard. All of them contributed to the atmosphere and all were genuises in their own way.   Carpenter has managed a light, gossipy book that is an easy read and very entertaining along the way. Yes, there are some factual errors, some little quibs of unsupported rumor here and there. But the people come to so much 'life' on these pages! If you're interested in the time and place, you will understand these people so much better at the end of the book.	2005-01-27
US	46462096	R1BCP638T96IDS	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Living in Nightmare	One strives to find any small glint of light, one shred of humanity in all great tragedies but in this book there are none.<br /><br /> Brutalized, dehumanized, stripped of everything but the very breath of life itself, survival is made meaningless. There are horrors too horrific to comprehend, son killing father, brother killing brother, all for a scrap of bread.<br /><br /> There is no honor here, no pride, no dignity, no religion nothing but the eternal degradation of the damned in the darkness of the 'night'. Because in the end, even faith is lost.<br /><br /> This is a powerful book, there is rancor and ruin and mindless violence on every page. This is not a book to be taken lightly, nor one to be forgotten	2005-01-10
US	46462096	R1H1IV420VRC4O	0465001769	492085239	What Liberal Media?: The Truth About Bias and the News	Books	5	7	23	N	N	Then and Now...reporting evolving into propaganda	As someone who remembers 'Huntley and Brinkley' and Walter Cronkite and others of that generation, it is almost overwhelming to turn on \\"TV NEWS\\" any station, any announcer and see what drivel we're being fed today. <br /> \\"Liberal Media\\" or \\"East Coast Thinking\\" are mantras that are repeated over and over, an unrelenting and overpowering dirge that has somehow swallowed the real world and regurgitated a quasi reality where Liberals,Homosexuals, Socialists and Atheists all are actively plotting to destroy the \\"American way of life\\". <br /> So now the Neocons have basically won. For thirty years they have plotted and planned behind the scenes while loudly proclaiming any questioning of their agenda(s) as 'Ungodly' and \\"Unpatriotic\\" ...From 'Fox' to 'Heritage' to 'Right to Life' they spend and deny, smear and despise,all the time wrapping themselves sanctimoniously in god and country to hide their dirty little tricks...'vast right wing conspiracy' doesn't seem so wrong a description this very minute does it? <br /> Mr Alterman covers our sad recent history from the balanced objective reporting of yesteryear (at least it seems that way now)to the present quagmire of posturing talk heads feeding a steady diet of shrill meaningless rhetoric that blames instead of explains, that demonizes 'them'- anybody not on their side with many a sneer and snide comment.  <br /> Is the book objective? Or can any book be truly considered as objective in these polarized times? Or do we, as a nation,  even want 'objectivity' in News anymore? Can a rational dialogue even exist when rationality itself is scorned? Is it truly a debate if there is only one side aired? Are we better as a nation or as a people when 'moral values' become the 'moral value'. <br /> This book made me think, made me ponder, and finally made me afraid. Because the trend is both obvious and frightening. There are agendas out there, dark and deep, and they are at work. And the few opposing (or even questioning) voices are rapidly being drowned out.  <br /> We, the United States, the land of the free now have 'camps' euphemistically called 'detention' - think 'concentration' and Gizmo rhymes so easily with Gulag. And there is no questioning no probing nobody asking Why? or How come?. We are now engaged in a \\"Premptive\\" war with Iraq with reasons just as valid and true as Hitler's reasons for the \\"Premptive\\" invasion of Poland in 1939. 'WMDs', 'ties with terrorists' a steady drumbeat of lies discarded as threadbare mirages and Nobody asks 'WHY?'   Read this book, but don't plan on sleeping well afterwards.                 <br />	2004-11-10
US	46462096	R316UB2QR5AVA3	0805070044	340213782	The Sorrows of Empire: Militarism, Secrecy, and the End of the Republic	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Handwriting on the wall....	This book, in many ways, was an unwelcome but eye opening slap in the face. Just weigh these facts for a minute, the second largest military budget in the world, Russia's, is 14 % ...FOURTEEN PERCENT.. of the U.S military budget. The U S military budget is equal to the next 28 ...TWENTY EIGHT countries. And those figures do no include Intelligence budgets or in fact the ongoing cost of Iraqi wars at all. <br /> U S bases abroad, it easier to list the countries that do not have a U S 'Military Presence' than the ever lengthening list that are strong armed into providing them. Think Japan, Okinawa, South Korea, Germany etc., they simply don't want us there. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, the bases there are virtual fortresses to protect the U S soldiers from the population they are theoretically there to \\"protect\\". <br /> This book pulls no punches, the U S is generally perceived abroad now as an economic and military bully, an Imperialistic Power that no longer obeys any rules of international or national law in the pursuit of its own agendas. To quote Pogo, \\"We have met the enemy and he is us.\\" <br /> There is a conscious parallel drawn to the decline of the Roman Republic and the founding of the Roman Empire. History does have a way of repeating itself. <br /> It is very disquieting what a slippery slope we now find ourselves on, the irony of the subjugation of the basic civil liberties at home - the Patriot Act makes a travesty of the Bill of Rights, to bring \\"Democracy\\" to the people of Iraq and Afghanistan.  <br /> While the still ongoing 'hunt' for Osama Bin Laden has managed to create a network of bases that also just happens to encircle most of the world's proven oil supplies seems almost cynical beyond comprehension.  <br /> Chalmers Johnson clearly fears the power of the Military Industrial complex that, in his opinion, permeates the very fabric of the American government. Both this book and his earlier one 'Blowback' takes a harsh view of the unholy partnership (revolving door, basically) between the military and the industries that support and supply them - Dick Cheney is just the most notable (or the most flagrant). <br /> So the fact that this book is a bitter pill to swallow for most readers is not surprising. That we have seemingly sown the seeds of our own distruction leaves a sour tang when the book is finished. Hubris is not pretty.                  <br />    <br />	2004-10-14
US	46462096	R2776F6JPSOQ7E	140135212X	666411206	Attack Poodles and Other Media Mutants: The Looting of the News In a Time of Terror	Books	5	18	24	N	N	getting the right slant on the news......	First this book is extremely well written and very readable. It is, in fact, a very funny look at an extremely serious topic i.e. how the media (especially the cable news)is increasingly slanting the reported news towards a rightist political bias.   The reader is given a brief (tho funny) thumbnail bio of the 'noted' newsreaders (one can't in any honesty call them reporters anymore) Coulter, Miller, O'Reilly and assorted ilk with illustrations on their varied 'newspeak' - any concept of 'Fair and Balanced' is readily proven to both intellectually dishonest and morally corrupt.    CNN, MNBC etc do not fare too much better, these networks attempt to match the style (and success) of FOX have resulted in a pandering to the right that neither serves their purpose or the public.    Hard objective reporting still exists but is almost buried by jabbering commentators who ponificate at length with neither intelligence or principle. The 'Attack Poodles' are strident in their general loathing of the very concept of free speech ...of the basic right to disagree with an agenda that is publically ordained by God.    'Unholy' 'Unpatriotic' and 'Liberal' are used interchangeably and indiscriminately, smear tactics are the norm, there is not any attempt at a rational public discourse, there are only ranting diatribes against those who dare disagree with the neocon idea de jour. Propaganda has replaced serious reporting. The demogogue doesn't have to be either consistent or correct, only shrill and loud.    This book does remind me of a good quote (paraphrased) from 'The American President' \\"An 'attack poodle' has no real interest in solving your problem, he just tells you to be afraid of it and who to blame for it.\\"	2004-10-12
US	46462096	R2AY73AG646VOK	1582431108	695538249	Here But Not Here: My Life with William Shawn and The New Yorker	Books	4	11	13	N	N	negation as the other woman...	Lillian Ross was a talented even gifted writer. She comes across in this book as a intelligent charming and caring person. Yet the thrust of this book is a self conscious and self serving apologia for her life long 'relationship' with William Shawn.     Bluntly put, she was his mistress -'the other woman' (just as an aside, why do you never hear of 'the other man'?). Mr Shawn, in a controlling and manipulative way, suborned her life in a way that is both appalling and pathetic. And as much as she rationalized it - and she spends many many pages doing just that, she seemed (on some level) to be aware of the basic inequality of their 'special' relationship.    So, about the book? Mr Shawn comes across as a whining self centered egotist who somehow manages to always get his way. Ms. Ross' cavalier dismissal of his shabby treatment of his wife and children borders on the obscene. Who was Mr. Shawn? Brilliant, yes without a doubt. A gifted editor, the New Yorker magazine owes much to his dedication. But does a true genuis require such slavish devotion to his ever whim?     There are some insightful moments in the book, Ernest Hemingway, Charlie Chaplin, John Huston (and others) were personal friends, the writers and editors - the behind the scenes folks that really made the New Yorker great - are covered in a slanted and biased sort of way - somehow one doubts that Mr Shawn singled handedly made them all as good as they were. And his 'enabling' talents surely came at a terrible cost, at least for Lillian Ross.      Bottom line, this is a good book on some levels but one that I had some personal difficulty with. \\"Being a good little woman for her (married) man\\" doesn't appeal to me as a life choice regardless of the glowing personalities involved. In the end I felt no empathy for her, she was just a pathetic woman trying to justify her own self negation.	2004-09-20
US	46462096	R2ZDY48MFV5KMT	0394704150	597233313	The Banquet Years: The Origins of the Avant-Garde in France - 1885 to World War I	Books	4	16	18	N	N	The Life of the Absurd...	Around the turn of the last century there was an unsettled fringe to \\"Art\\". There was the mainstream - formal just-so predictable and safe. The framework and structure of being an artist was beginning to fray however - the idea that \\"Art\\" should continue to evolve into something else to grow beyond the rigid box that artists and society were so comfortable with. <br /> <br /> It is hard to put into words exactly what these four artists attempted to do to their perspective fields, painting, music and writing - they strove to both make \\"Art\\" plastic (malleable) and new - to create \\"Art\\" beyond \\"Art\\" as it were. Even the knowledgeable at the time struggled to define as they themselves exactly what they were doing... <br /> <br /> But from primitivism in art to ubu to monotonal music to surrealism to painted neckties, these artists redefined the role of artist to their art. It would be easier to say that Satie or especially Jarry were art themselves their very state of being being \\"Art\\". Art as life or life as art or a witch's brew of the two blurred the line between being and performance (Truman Capote, Andy Warhol would have fit right into these guys as well as Timothy Leary and his LSD visionaries). <br /> <br /> Cubism and Dadaism - modern art as we understand it today - owes a great debt to these men. Destitute, literally either one step from starvation or madness (or both), their vision of their \\"Art\\" and their willingness to bear the cost of bring that \\"Art\\" out (there were riots at performances of Satie and Jarry, Apollinaire was jailed and Rousseau was delittled)paved the way for Picasso and Dali. <br /> <br /> This book is not a particularly easy read, it wanders between the dryness of a college textbook and an almost lyrical prose at times. And the author seems to expect some knowledge of art and the period from the beginning, a little more background would have been helpful. But I learned a lot for the effort so I would recommend the book to the interestedstudent of the period.	2004-09-15
US	46462096	R3PEVK6EETW8G	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	3	0	1	N	N	odd...disjointed...transitional?	Writing a series like this must be incredibly difficult for any writer, continuity (and growth) are critical in making the characters believable to me, plus making me care what happens in the books time after time. This series has been great truly -good reads all but this one, oh my.   This book has such a total and complete departure both in style and substance than any of the the previous books, it is understandable that some reviewers have questioned even the authorship of this one. To me, this does not read like a 'Cornwell' book and definitely not a Scarpetta novel.   Characters are different - I'm sorry, Lucy and Marino would simply not do that to Kay, no way!!!, situations are different (and unexplainably so) and third person - whats that all about? Characters either disappear without a trace (Tuen?) drop from the sky (Rocco) or there's that miraculous second coming (Benton -think bobby ewing in the shower)   Whatever explanations there are leave more more questions then answers and don't even mention the climax - we get it secondhand.   But...and there is a but...there are some of the old Cornwell flashes here..The Bev/Jay dialogues are great (but this Jay compared to the suave ladies man in \\"Black Notice\\"?) And the almost (hinted at-maybe) 'thing' between Nic and Lucy was vintage but short. But these pearls are few and far between.    To sum up, if you're going to read the series, you're going to have to read this one. Its enjoyable enough in spots. And maybe the next one will be better.	2004-09-13
US	46462096	R2IFRARWMRYB16	0865715106	500916232	Powerdown: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World	Books	5	108	124	N	N	A dismal science	This is a followup to the earlier book, 'The Partys Over'. The basic thrust of this book is simple 'We are going to run out of power soon, very soon so what are we going to do?'  <br /> <br />The basic facts of overpopulation, energy and resource depletion basic planet abuse and mismanagement are laid out in some detail tho there are many references back to 'The Partys over'. Although there can be arguments made about exactly when the lights are going to go out, there can be very little doubt that the lights are going to go out. Alternate fuels like methane or tar sands - even hydrogen are shown to be simply not practical or plentiful enough. <br /> <br />The possible scenarios for afterwards that are  spelt out are not very attractive. From 'Ignorance is bliss' to 'The Power grab', there is going to be widespread misery for most as the world civilization teeters and then collapses.  <br /> <br />But there is an air of inevitability that permeates this book. The author tries to be upbeat \\"Yes we can change the world\\" but all evidence seems to point to the contrary - that the world is blind and deaf and oblivious- that those leaders who should be preparing us for the coming diasaster are both uncaring and greedy.  <br /> <br />Toynbee's theory about the rise and fall of past civilizations was challenge and response. Civilizations reach a point where due to varying factors the threat from outside is simply greater then the inner ability to respond - so the civilization collapses. From the Romans to the Mayas to the present day, the theory holds true. <br /> <br />Bush's \\"Pax Americana\\" - the power grab for control of the oil of the mideast is just a salvo in the the opening scene of our final act. Dwindling resources - energy food water fought over by an unmanageable population paint a bleak future. Our end is already whimpering the bang is in the foreseeable future.	2004-08-31
US	46462096	R14QYK60CQ6E59	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	38	84	N	N	tripe of the lowest degree	Was/is John Kerry a hero? An objective look, which this 'book' is MOST DEFINITELY NOT, would have to be \\"YES\\". He rescued a man under fire putting himself in harms way for another...the very definition of bravery and he was rewarded a bronze star for that action.  <br /> <br /> Democrat or Republican regardless, he was in Vietnam doing his duty for his country. Others........didn't <br /> <br />That this type of political slime, there's no other word for it, should have ANY credibility with any reasonable voter speaks volumes about the present sorry state of the American republic and public. <br /> <br />	2004-08-26
US	46462096	R1MSSB1JSADUBM	0865714827	597041364	The Party's Over: Oil, War and the Fate of Industrial Societies	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Cassandra...or Chicken Little	'The end of the world as we know it'...who do you believe? Facts and data are always open to both interpretation as well as manipulation and projections are, at best, educated guesses. But this much is certain, the oil supply is definitely finite, the main point of expert argument is 'when' not 'if'. And we (The Industrial Civilization) seem to not only not have a rational plan to deal with that, we seem unaware that there even is a looming problem. <br />  <br /> This book paints a very bleak future for us, the author makes no attempt to sugarcoat data and facts that are disturbing to say the least. And we are not talking about some nebulous time in the distant future, this dismal future starts next year (or even now, anybody bought gas lately?) <br />  <br /> At the end of the book, the author offers suggestions on how we might better cope with the beginning of the energy collapse, mind you, not avert it, its far too late for that. But his options do far too little (backyard gardens and carless days?) or expect far too much (Global birth control?)for a world that seems oblivious to its peril. <br />  <br /> 'The end of the world as we know it' in our lifetime? or our childrens? The more I read about this, the more impotency I feel about it. &quot;Doom and gloom&quot; I noticed other reviewers saying, &quot;Flawed analysis&quot; and &quot;slanted research&quot; --- words of denial that are shouted over the disquieting din of the growing storm. <br />  <br /> I am reminded of the words of John Wyndham - 'I would find myself a tidy little hill...and fortify it.'	2004-07-22
US	46462096	R2CZOFFIY32TZR	0140178422	49597786	Djuna: The Life and Work of Djuna Barnes	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Powerful book and very disturbing	Biographies are sometimes the powerful of all writing to me. The best ones are the books that open a person's life, that reveal without judgement how the person became what they were. <BR> <BR> Djuna Barnes's early life was horrific almost beyond understanding. Rape(?),incest(?), paternal abandonment and grinding poverty -she was the financial supporter of her extended family while she was still in her late teens. Yet it is a mark of her genius that she was able to overcome all the odds and become a true modern author.<br /> All of her best works were autobiograpical and all dealt with the critical tragedies of her life. 'Ryder' was an attempt to deal with her father - incest or rape,'Nightwood' to deal with her failed relationship with Thelma Wood, and finally 'Antiphon' to deal with her entire disfunctional family. The wellspring of her most bitter invective was her own life.<br /> This biography is good, thorough and complete. Djuna suffered pain and repaid that pain over and over again. Her venom, her rage, the sheer angst she had flows like blood on every page. But in spite of all that, her artistry was able to give her pain a rich voice and this book captures her spirit as well as her wraith. <br /> But in some ways, this book is almost like watching a car wreck...there is a human impulse to look away not see such suffering. I was both repelled by and drawn into the recounting of such public agony by such a private person. Djuna Barnes's writing is not meant for everyone, and this biography isn't either.	2004-07-12
US	46462096	RN4XKVCFPVGNF	1589801253	636625273	Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Interesting theory...really	This book was extremely well researched. Mr Busby seems to have found every significant newspaper article printed at the time concerning the mysterious 'airship'. Based on that evidence and some great (and rational) speculative theories about flight paths, Mr Busby presents a plausible explanation for the wave of sightings in Texas in 1897. <br /> To further support his theory, he also adds biographical information about the possible pilots of these airships. In the end he makes a neat case giving answers to the basic questions of who, what, when, and where.<br /> As someone who tries to approach these types of mysteries with an open mind, Mr Busby seems, to me, has presented a rational theory that is supported by a believable mass of evidence.<br /> Frankly his theory makes sense to me, the technologies and people were totally capable of what he says they did. According to Occam's razor, the simplest explanation is usually correct. Mr Busby has, at least to me, presented the simplest theory.	2004-07-12
US	46462096	RPI9CGJJJ8IJ	0465043097	98651750	The Hidden Hitler	Books	3	16	27	N	N	Possible but no real factual evidence..	Hitler is a true historic enigma. His was such a contradictory life that biographers can easily read just about anything into it. He was somehow both monstrous and banal at the same time but was he a homosexual?<br />Machtan seems to think that he was. But what constitutes proof of such a claim? Hitler was a historical figure, much has been written about him even during his life. There is a wealth of documentation for just about every facet of his personality, his day to day existence as both a private and very public figure.<br /> So where's the proof? Machlan offers very little hard factual evidence that can be independently verified. Most of his proof are 'edited' interpretations of memoirs that are ambiguous at best. There just is no 'smoking gun' presented here just the same kind of innuendo that hints at everything and proves nothing.<br />Was Hitler a raging heterosexual then? No. He seems, to me, to have been more asexual then anything else. There was some sort of emotional 'relationship' between him and his niece.. was it a sexual one as well? Eva Braun ..kept carefully hidden from the German public.. was considered his sexual mistress by most of his closest companions...was that all just a cover? There is much more verifiable proof that his sexual drive was both heterosexual (and low). <br />So the thesis of this book? \\"Unproven\\" but probably not true is the best I can do. There are just too many blanks and too few hard facts given here to prove it.	2004-07-08
US	46462096	R20N584GDZ6SJI	0465087728	759846824	Truly Wilde: The Unsettling Story Of Dolly Wilde, Oscar's Unusual Niece	Books	5	6	8	N	N	meaning without words...a wisp of a shadow	How do you relate the life of someone who never stepped forward from the shadows of her disgraced uncle, Oscar Wilde? Someone who sparkled like a thousand shards of a broken mirror on a sunlit day? <BR> Dolly was a wisp of a shadow, mesmerizing, bewitching permanently etching herself into onto one's memory with her mere presence. Those who knew her well, Janet Flanner, Natalie Barney, Honey Harris - true wordsmiths all- struggled to explain her enigmatic aura. Captivating, enchanting  - adjectives repeated over and over in a vain attempt to eplain her effect on all she met. <BR> Her magic was her brilliant conversation, her charming turn of phrase, the impermanence of flowing dialogue that she wouldn't or couldn't commit to paper. She lived and died in 'The Moment' nothing else mattered. Her flame burned bright and then was gone - a willing(?) or fated victim to excesses she could not (and would not) control and the ravages of a body aged long before its time. Suicide? accident? Murder? The myth and truth of 'Wilde' consumed her all the same.<BR> This biography isn't linear because Dolly didn't live her life linearly. Her life was moments of sight and sound and fury that the author captures completely. <BR> How do you truly explain the unexplainable? This book is at it's best a series of half glimpses, whispered hints, or even dim reflections in mirrors (Dolly hated mirrors)of someone so busy 'living in the moment' that after that glorious moment she was gone with only the faint trace of pleasure and grace. <BR> And somehow all that works and works well, this book recreates her life so much more then a dry recording of droning facts could ever capture of such a glorious spirit. No such dullness For Dolly Wilde! I highly recommend this book.	2004-07-01
US	46462096	RGMTMPQI47JY2	0060124776	614427135	The Disappearance of Flight 19	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The harsh light of reality	Flight 19 is in someways the 'Holy Grail' of Bermuda triangle buffs. 5 planes led by a experienced aviator disappear on a 'routine' flight in perfect weather. The first search plane also disappears in broad daylight. Mysterious and garbled radio transmissions that hint at well at anything the writer wants them to hint at. Books have been churned out reguritating theories from UFOs to Atlantis.<br />Kusche simply does what a 'real' investigator should do. He does not simply recycle others' research, he goes to the source...the military records of the flight, the subsequent investigation and interviews with the surviving families. Like an onion, he peels backs the legends, the half truths, the out and out fabrications to review the knowable facts.<br />He makes a strong case for what logically seems to have happened. A lost training flight in bad weather running out of gas in the dark. Ongoing confusion about exactly where they were and freakishly bad radio conditions both played a part. The rescue flight that was seen to explode in midair. A military review that skirted the issue of blame to alleviate the suffering of the victims' surviving families (especially the Taylors, the leader's mother).Clearly this was a personal tragedy but a great 'Mystery' sorry no.<br />Kusche, to me, does not fall into the 'debunker' class, those who automatically reject anything that smacks of the bizarre. He does good research and states the knowable facts.	2004-06-30
US	46462096	R37HVWMQDHRVJW	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A long view and a very short step	I tend to lend weight to 'insider' viewpoint. To wit, Clarke has been dealing with Terrorism for the last four(4) Presidents. He was there almost from the beginning, from Reagan and Beirut to the present. So he clearly has the exposure and the expertise to write knowingly of what the US did right and wrong. <BR>Does Clarke have an agenda, an axe to grind? He clearly respected Clinton for his grasp of the issue and his willingness to move the fight against Bin Laden and Al Qaeda to the forefront. But he just as clearly notes that Clinton, due to his own missteps, did not have the presidental clout to force the reluctant pentagon, congress, and a largely unaware American people to take the necessary steps. Clarke is scathing in his criticism of the CIA's actions or lack of action almost through the period.<BR>Bush? In all the books I've read about the administration as well as this one, there is an almost overwhelming conclusion that IRAQ was in the crosshairs from the first day of the administration even before 9/11. Terrorism and Bin Laden/Al Qaeda were both discounted and ignored. Clarke makes a strong case that the administration was simply not interested or concerned about even the possibility of an attack within the US itself. There were obvious hints threads that 'something' was in the works. But if it couldn't be tied to, or blamed on, Iraq, it was simply not acted on.<BR>After 9/11, the day after, Iraq was again the topic of possible counterattack, and without any clear links to Al Qaeda. Clarke does not mince words here, the President and his closest cabal wanted Saddam connected to 9/11 somehow. Aghanistan and the Talibans' clear links to Al Qaeda could not be ignored after all Bin Laden was there so the first strikes would be there (almost not Rumsfield wanted to bomb Iraq immediately). But the decisions that would lead to the Iraqi war had already been made.<BR>Clarke makes and writes a clear case and backs it up with verifiable facts. And the book ties in with both 'Plan of Attack' and 'Pretext for War' (both excellent reads by the way)Is he clearly biased? Yes Clarke thinks that Bush's administration has taken the wrong steps to combat terrorism.  Face it, Clarke says, Bin Laden and Al Qaeda are still functioning, their threat is real (and growing). The US occupation of Iraq has not hindered that threat in any way. It probably has made it worse.	2004-06-29
US	46462096	R23UXMR7ACOKNX	1400041996	315702599	The Iraq War	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Nice read....for what it is	Will Durant ended his history with 'The Age of Napoleon' because the correct treatment and understanding of historical events requires perspective. Simply put recent events are too clouded with emotions and opinions and rarely are all the verifiable facts known (or knowable)for objective analysis.<BR>Keegan is an excellent military historian in my opinion. His book about WW1 is both gripping and well written. He has also written several books about the philosophy of war which I also recommend. I like his writing style, concise crisp there is alway a nice flow to the words, enjoyable and engrossing.<BR>So, this book? Keegan does a good though brief review of basic 20th century Iraqi history and the rise of Saddam into power. The Iraqi-Iran War, the first gulf war(Kuwaiti-Iraqi war) are all covered and set the table for the present fighting. 9/11, WMDS and Saddam himself are all weighed objectively and the intense attempts by the US/GB to involve the UN make for good reading (French and German leaders' feelings about the US are both disturbing and disquieting)<BR>The fighting (or lack of) by the the inital US/GB military units is both well written and informative (Keegan flat knows his military and his review of both the strengths and weakness of the US/GB forces during the brief period of the war itself is very good). But the book basically ends with the taking of Bagdad. The capture of Saddam and the death of his sons are included in the pictures but is not really covered in the text.<BR>I think it was noted in another review that the war did not really start till 90-100 days after the fall of Bagdad. I'm not sure that I would go that far. I think that the fall of Bagdad was the end of phase one, the overt military phase. The Iraqi military was conscripted, woefully armed and poorly led. Overwhelmed outgunned the army simply 'melted away'. But the Irregulars (technicals) fought to the death. And still are. <BR>So Phase two, the civilian insurgency is both ongoing and not covered by this book ---though hinted at in the conclusion section. <BR>So if you want to read about the general buildup and initial phase of this war, Keegan is good.	2004-06-29
US	46462096	R20MQWDKK90WSR	0385506724	283863984	A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq, and the Abuse of America's Intelligence Agencies	Books	5	20	25	N	N	Slippery slope and a long fall	To do this book justice I think it is necessary to break it down into two parts: the events leading up to 9/11 and then the U.S./Iraqi War part 2.<br />  9/11 is an event that will echo on in the American Pysche for a long time. How did this happen? Here? Where were the guardians?<BR>This book reveals how the U.S. Intelligence agencies, shorthanded, underfunded and poorly led, were as busy fighting each other, withholding critical information (FBI-CIA), and pouring money to dubious 'resistance fighters' while Bin Laden methodically planned and executed the strike at the heart of America. There were clues there, names repeated, mentions of hijacking that could (I will not say should)have signalled what was going to happen if (IF) the various services would have just exchanged what information they had.<BR>  Jealously compartmentized and territorial, the FAA, NORAD, Air Force, Air National Guard could not respond, communicate, much less prevent the airplanes strikes. (It is bitterly ironic to me that after I had finished reading the book, I was watching members of the 9/11 commission state that we are not in much better shape now.)For historical perspective, read Gordon Prange's &quot;At Dawn We Slept&quot; - History has a cruel way of repeating itself for those who forget it.<br />The U.S./Iraqi War is not a clear step from 9/11. There is very little evidence (frankly none) that Saddam and Bin Laden worked together in any meaningful way. Aghanistan and the Taliban make sense, they were harboring Bin Laden and would not give him up. There was schools, residences, training camps, We knew where they were. If nothing else, the invasion at least disrupted the organization and possibly either delayed or prevented other strikes. <BR> But Iraq? There is some evidence that Saddam attempted to assassinate the elder Bush and family but even that is one sourced. What is certain that Bush came into office with the idea that it was time to deal with Iraq, and 9/11 gave him the political capital to do so. There is very little evidence that the WMDs touted by the administration even existed by 2003. The administration saw what it wanted to see and heard what it wanted to hear from the agencies. That there were agendas at work is blatantly obvious.<BR>Some reviews had stated that this book is 'Anti-Semitic', I just don't see that. Its fairly clear that Bush is very Pro-Israeli, that there are those in the administration that are even more so and that the American Intelligence agencies were accepting 'evidence' on Iraqi matters from the Israelis at face value. What is repeated over and over, is that Arabs in general feel that America is responsible for the actions of Israel. The pictures of &quot;crusading&quot; Americans in the holy places in Muslim Iraq spurs the homegrown resistance that seems to grow daily - hearts and minds indeed.  <BR>Bob Woodward's book &quot;Plan of Attack&quot; covers much of the same ground as this book, it is very well written and was in fact written with the approval and active participation of the White House. And I must admit both books support the other. Whatever the reader's biases are, WE are THERE now, and it is very important to understand the full truth of how we got there.	2004-06-22
US	46462096	R399UDXQF79L1F	B0000C8WFP	42081972	God's Funeral: The Decline of Faith in Western Civilization	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Confusion...denial...and inner turmoil	What was the response of Victorian intelligensa and society to a daunting realization that the axiomatic belief in the absolute truth of &quot;God&quot; and the bible was no longer believable? That the highly touted advances in the Sciences, the Industrial revolution, and Darwinism made &quot;God&quot; both irrelevant and unnecessary. The very concept of &quot;God&quot; so tied to the the civilization around it (think about the Romans and Greeks)that being 'Agnostic', the word was invented then, was perceived as both a threat to the established churches as well as to the very fabric of society itself. Faith and Knowledge were in direct conflict, each attempting to deny the other. What was a thinking person to do? This book recounts the struggles of noted men (Thomas Hardy, John Ruskin to name a few)to accept, reject or reconcile themselves to the very notion of 'godlessness' - some did, some didn't. I found this book very readable although a bit 'British' in both tone and viewpoint. Social histories of any religion tend to be criticized by true believers and this book is no exception. But this sober recounting of the debate(What is God, exactly?)is a crucial point and pivotal to the understanding of the social upheavals that followed.	2004-06-15
US	46462096	RLUY3MRVLI6Z1	0292790406	345823983	Women of the Left Bank, Paris 1900-1940	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Staggering good...	Not really a biography, tho it is very biographic. Not really a study of Feminism, tho most of the women were early pioneers. Not really a study of Lesbians, tho most of the women were, at least, bisexual. What this book does, and it does it extremely well, is illustrate how these women struggled to 'define' themselves, as artists, as authors, as sexual beings, as individuals at a time when women were generally perceived as little better then simple minded children factories. From Gertrude Stein to Djuna Barnes to Natalie Barney (Rene Vivian...'a life spent looking for death')such different people but sharing a common thread of struggle (and cost). I've read a lot about this period and these women, and no book has given me a better understanding of them and emotional empathy with them, then this book.	2004-06-03
US	46462096	R1KBYNEFZ6N8WU	0700612130	711507139	Decent Interval: An Insider's Account of Saigon's Indecent End Told by the CIA's Chief Strategy Analyst in Vietnam	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Intelligence....and intelligent use	History has a way of repeating itself. 'Intelligence is as only good as the analyst.' This book about events almost thirty years past is so totally relevant today. 'Facts and beliefs are not the same thing.' Agents in the field were getting and giving good information but it was ignored berated dismissed almost out of hand to the very end. Why? Simply 'the Powers that Be' did not like the truth and did not want the truth. They did not want it to be that way (Saigon falling) so the middle bureaucrats gave them what they wanted to hear, not what they needed to hear. And Saigon fell.<BR> To draw parallels to 'intelligence' failures about 'WMDs', Iraqi-Osama ties, the very phrase 'welcome with rose petals' or Tennant's 'slam dunk' phrase is both disturbing and disheartening. This book tells it as it was (and is) 'Intelligence' can be used and misused.	2004-06-01
US	46462096	R27YRADVMPVYFI	0805055762	962995770	Resource Wars: The New Landscape of Global Conflict With a New Introduction by the Author	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Chilling glimpse of near future	Out of oil by 2050, or 2040 , or 2080 and shortages long before then. Potable water.. scarce now and getting scarcer (one of the roots of the 67 Arab-Israeli War was water rights). The facts roll over the reader, dispassionate and almost mindnumbing in detail. Population growing far beyond any capacity to maintain (The population of Ethiopia in 1950 was 18 million, the projected population in 2050 will be 212 million!)Civil wars, wars by proxy, the depletion and devastation of irreplacable old growth forests, rainforests, whole fragile ecosystems gone in a decade. And these are facts....facts no reputable scientist will argue other then exactly WHEN the resources will be finally depleted. The feeling I got at the end of the book was that we are all 'fiddling' as our world starts to burn.	2004-06-01
US	46462096	R3OKQZQ08FPGRR	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	5	15	25	N	N	Information...and disinformation	What is the NSA? and what does it do? This book is an effort to describe and explain the history of an agency that most Americans have never heard of until recently. The Reader is given much information about its role in the past and present. But in the shadowy land that the NSA seems to occupy, such 'information' is not necessarily the same as fact or truth or even recorded non-events. <BR> Diversions, double agents, disinformation and outright deception are what the NSA does on a daily basis and one has to wonder just how much of the  information 'released' or 'leaked' about this agency is close to what it appears to be. And that is of of itself is very troubling because if there is ANY agency in the United States that has the alleged ability (or at least the potential) to be &quot;Big Brother&quot;, the NSA is the one. The ability to intercept ,monitor, and manipulate just about every type of modern communication is staggering in its implications.<BR> In the post 9/11 world of 'The Patriot Act' (face it, a loyal citizen can now get a reward for 'turning in' a neighbor for undefined 'suspicious acts'), The NSA's seeming ability to 'monitor' everyone as spelled out in this book is very alarming. The spying capability is there and use (or misuse)should be a concern of everyone.	2004-06-01
US	46462096	RKC9FJ78PK20	1879483912	221162653	The Beast of Bray Road: Tailing Wisconsin's Werewolf	Books	3	13	33	N	N	Much ado about very little	This is the type of book that irks me. Nifty name lurid cover that promises a whole lot more then it delivers. If you read the book, objectively, and strip away all the filler (most of the book is not about 'the beast') there is very little actual meat here. A bare handful of  brief sightings of something that the people themselves tended to describe as a 'big dog'. And even those are usually second or third hand accounts of events that happened years ago. So much for 'the beast'. <BR>We then get a blow by blow account of 'almost' movies offers, dealing with the hyper TV shows (Sightings, In Search of etc) and considerable quoting from books by Brad Stieger and Loren Coleman.(Mr Coleman is a noted and respected researcher in the  Cryptozoology field,by the way)<BR>Having said all that, Ms. Godfrey writes well, in a light and breezy way. The book is an easy read, a couple of hours at the most. Its just an average book for the general 'scary' reader.	2004-05-25
US	46462096	R9BYDHZOD06L5	0156709902	160576996	Paris Was Yesterday, 1925-1939	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	A Wordsmith's diary	There are rare pleasures in reading, one of which is stumbling onto a 'new' author. Ms Flanner could craft a detailed word picture almost with a single stroke of her pen. She wrote what she saw, actors, authors, lives and deaths of Knowns and Unknowns. She was there at the events, both great and small in a Paris she knew well and obviously loved. She is able to give the period between the wars a flavor and texture that makes it live and breathe. In some ways it is a gossipy diary, in others a police blotter, a literal whos-who of the literary scene of the time. Entries vary from a few pithy lines to several pages, ranging from light and humorous to somber and serious. And all extremely well written.	2004-05-24
US	46462096	R3QM2EP3JMTZAU	0393302318	645301774	Sylvia Beach and the Lost Generation: A History of Literary Paris in the Twenties and Thirties	Books	5	39	39	N	N	keen and insightful....	This is one of the best books that I've ever read about the 'lost generation' of Americans literary refugees in Paris. The writing is excellent, the research exhaustive and thorough with unparalleled access to Ms. Beach's 'surpressed' portions of her autobiography &quot;Shakespeare and Company&quot;. It is readily apparent from this book that without Ms. Beach and her unflinching support, there would have been no &quot;Ulysses&quot; (and maybe no James Joyce). But there was so many other authors she supported and nurtured as well, as the quote from Ernest Hemingway cited above illustrates as well. This book is almost a 'must read' for those persons interested in American literature of the mid 20th century.	2004-05-17
US	46462096	RWBGFGPL2T5SM	1573228737	595147475	Affinity	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great...for any other author	This is a tough review. I have read both of Ms. Waters other books, 'Fingersmith' which is fantastic and 'Tipping the Velvet' which is very good. 'Affinity' is her middle book the second one. And its good well written etc but there's the rub for me, the style is there but not the substance. Maybe its the style of writing, diary entries back and forth or something, the book just does not seem to flow as well as the others to me. Ms. Waters' books are very character driven and I just did not 'connect' to either of the characters in this one. As always the surroundings and feel of the period are there but in this book that almost overwhelms the characters themselves.   But again this is a good book. Its a good read..an afternoon into the evening type thats hard to put down. Four stars, to me, mean a better then average read and this book clearly is that. Its just not as great as her other two books in my opinion.	2004-05-14
US	46462096	R15ZEG4HYUDBPX	074325547X	828250107	Plan of Attack	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An clear unbiased report ...almost unbelievable!!!!	This book falls into the 'must read' column. Well written with almost unlimited access to all the major players (with direct quotes!) this book lays out an objective and even handed account of the planning of the Iraqi war. I must admit that I was surprised that Woodward was given so much insider info from the Bush Adminstration and that so many of the normally secretive leaders (Rumsfield, Cheney in particular) were willing to openly say what roles they played. I am sure that both the Bush fans and foes will find plenty of ammo to feed their particular bends. But Woodward has written good current history here, the facts are laid out clearly and objectively, there is no attempt to slant the hot button 'events' (WMD, Powell, UN etc) one way or another. And it is fascinating to glimpse how crucial decisions are weighed and finally made in the Bush White House.	2004-05-13
US	46462096	R8JNBVP746Q2B	0060548452	744319406	Among the Bohemians: Experiments in Living 1900-1939	Books	5	15	17	N	N	passionate..insane...wild and free	There is a madness that lives in all artists, I think, and the 'Bohemians' were all driven to 'BE' artists sometimes beyond their talents, abilities and mental health. Starvingly poor reveling in their personal and sexual abandon, they attempted to smash through the rigid artificiality of the classed society. Free will, Free art, Free love everything was going to be different. (In someways they remind me of the free love 'hippie' movements of the 60's). This book does a very competent job of capturing the elan, their wild joys and deep sorrows, the very 'living' that would lead some many of them to early deaths. Most of them are almost forgotten now strange relics of a seemingly far distant social past. This book brings them and their frantic movement to chaotic life	2004-05-13
US	46462096	R13Z44V4M1RQPJ	1565123816	306258106	All-Night Party: The Women of Bohemian Greenwich Village and Harlem, 1913-1930	Books	4	11	14	N	N	More of an Introduction	Well written and very easy to read, this book is a very good introduction to the pioneers of 'feminism' (I dread using that word, a better phrase would be women who chose to define themselves, who chose to live their lives the way they wanted to). But in some ways the author's reach exceeded her grasp, the reader is given only fragments, brief snapshots of wildly different women that are only tenuously connected by their sex. Mina Loy and Bessie Smith were as radically different from each other as they were from most woman of their times, they didn't so much live in their times as they rose above it. The author just doesn't give enough depth or insight into their lives that I can see any connection. <BR> Again this is a very readable book and there are golden tidbits here..Jane Heap is a revelation and the treatment of her life and relationship is excellent. I guess you can't really hold against the author if at the end you say to yourself \\"I wish there had been more!\\"	2004-05-04
US	46462096	R3NNW3S5WF7CVM	0743469755	469188117	Bigfoot!: The True Story of Apes in America	Books	5	50	59	N	N	Hominds and logic...the rational view	'Bigfoot', the very word brings forward an image of a hundred grainy snapshots of men bumbling around in monkey suits, blatantly faked footprints and a thousand lurid stories ususally found in 'the Enquirer'. So any reputable scientist generally can dismiss the whole thing as summer sunshine. I was a skeptic myself before I read this book. But the vexing problem is there has been credible sights of 'something' in the woods that are none of the above things. Credible people seeing incredible things. So what is this all about?<BR> 'Hominds' have been sighted repeatedly in every state in the US and the provinces of Canada. There are the ubiquitous footprints, snapshots, movie film, (...)matter, nests as well as the numerous visual sightings. There have also, unfortunately, been enough fakes scams fabrications and hoaxes to frustrate even the most objectively minded reader.<BR> Loren Coleman is a noted investigator and cyptobiologist. He objectively reviews the truly mysterious cases (there are more then the average reader might think) as well as the 'tainted' cases and even the (...)evidence. There is a logical breakdown and classification of the different 'groups'(species) of the hominds with examples of sightings. This book is well researched yet very readable for the layman.<BR> I will freely admit that I don't quite know what to think of \\"Bigfoot\\" but this book has convinced me that there is a distinct possibility that such a creature or creatures could still exist. Mr Coleman argues a good case here and I would recommend this book to the objective reader.	2004-05-04
US	46462096	R3CY70NXVSOY7S	0767903706	943462858	Everybody Was So Young: Gerald and Sara Murphy: A Lost Generation Love Story	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Making social history breathe	Few books deserve to be 'raved' about but mark this one as a definite 5 stars. Brilliantly researched and detailed, the author made these people 'real' to me, I felt I knew them. The Murphys, so very different yet so very much alike were 'The hostesses with the mostest' to all the upcoming glitterati of the 20's furnishing both emotional and monetary support at crucial times to Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Cole Porter (and others) with a grace and charm that is as impressive now as it was then. It would have been so easy for Vaill just to cover that but she gives the lives behind the facade, the odd and distant relationships with both sets of parents and family, the heartbreak and sorrow of loss of their two sons that seemed to end all the lightness in theie lives. They and the world they had created were never the same after, as both they and their friends even at the time recognized. Its sometimes so easy to forget that the 20's were a brief flickering of a frantic time between a war and a depression. The Murphys lived before and after but somehow they both defined and were defined by that period. This book lets you know them for all they were.	2004-04-29
US	46462096	RE4Y1D0P5YV5S	0385145594	896830751	Infamy: Pearl Harbor and Its Aftermath	Books	1	24	55	N	N	Biased reporting ....the decline of a once good author	John Toland was an excellent writer. 'The last Hundred days' 'But Not In Shame' are both excellent books and are highly recommended. 'The Rising Sun' is good, very good in spots but the author was already losing his objectivity, clearly and sometimes blatantly. Toland was 'spinning' the story i.e trying to protray the Japanese as good intended ( the war was anti-communist not really imperialistic, yeah, right)culturally indoctrinated 'wrongheaded'( beheading POW's fits into Shinto, how exactly?). Even then He was trying to shift blame over unto the Americans as if the 'poor' Japanese had been duped by the manipulative Americans into war. But this book is almost a farce, come on, Roosevelt would let 'His' beloved navy get massacred so the American Public would permit us to go to war to save Europe? Sure there were hints clues signs there that the 20-20 vision of hindsight of history allow us to say that they could or should have been picked up on. Read Gordon Prange exhaustive series of books on Pearl Harbor for the real truth about the attack. Or read John Costello's book 'The Pacific War' for a very objective and much shorter recount of 'they knew what when' game that Toland weaves out of discredited and, in some cases, imaginary bits of psuedo facts. A good summation from that book is &quot;The Japanese didn't want war, they just wanted Asia. And they were willing to go to war to get it.&quot; Toland has clearly lost his ability to to distinguish betweens facts and 'belief as fact'.	2004-04-28
US	46462096	R24IIMDNKF1JPQ	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	5	4	6	N	N	An outsider on the inside?	O'Neill's experiences with W.'s white house make for very interesting reading. It is the comparison of his own personal dealings with the other white house staffs and organizations that make this book so very important. O'Neill is, after all, a life long Republican. And my impression of O'Neill is that he has no 'hidden agenda' or 'grudge' about the present administration; it's almost as much as what he does not say as what he actually does. The pervasive feeling that I get from my reading of this book  is the almost total 'disconnect' that Bush has from any outside source of opinion or information. He has a few, in fact very few, people that are his seemingly only source of information from 'the real world'and these few also serve as his conduit to the 'outside' world of congress, public opinion or any source of differing or dissenting information. Bush comes across as both ill-informed and unwilling or unable to become intelligently informed about crucial decisions. Often making decisons by 'his gut'or 'his faith', temperamentally and personally Bush had nothing in common with the logic driven arguments and findings of O'Neill. There is a sense that O'Neill slowly realized that he, and others, were just 'moderate' window dressing for an ultra conservative agenda driven administration.<BR>I got the impression that O'Neill felt he tried to serve his country first, to do his best for the world and that his actions ran afoul of the administration's and he was 'fired'. O'Neill seems caught between being bemused and bewildered in his recount of his days within the administration but there is not as much hostility in this book as a strong sense of rational dismay. I guess the best way to sum this book up is that of a career professional's reaction to working with and for a bumbling and headstrong amateur.	2004-04-27
US	46462096	R2DW2JICC6LDZM	0810925915	241336356	Kiki's Paris: Artists and Lovers 1900-1930	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A good social history	This book gives both an excellent pictorial and verbal description of the evolution of the artistic life in bohemian Paris in the early twentieth century. Well researched and written, it brings the ongoing revolution in art (what defines art?) as well as society (the role of classes, women, etc) into both clear focus and understanding. The pictures are both numerous and superb and gives the book a real 'you are there' sense as well. The wealth of detail is sometimes almost overwhelming in fact. An very readable and enjoyable book!!	2004-04-20
US	46462096	RI0ZBQ4QYQEXJ	0500275092	749785553	The Lives of Lee Miller	Books	4	33	33	N	N	a friendly bio	First I want to state that this is a very fine biography, the author (Miller's son) does an admirable job of showing the many different sides and personalities of a multi-gifted woman whose life spanned the tumultuous revolution of women's roles in society. But Lee Miller led a very complicated and somewhat contradictory life and the author manages (artifully, I admit)to avoid probing too deeply into the dark corners that would truly flesh out her life. There are crucial points in the book where a gentle fog of vagueness creeps in where an objective biographer would have strove for clarity, i.e. what exactly was the nature of her relationship with her father? He clearly had a huge role in her life and career (he began photographing her nude at a very early age)but the treatment of their relationship is ginger to say the very least. But issues outside the family are well covered, inside not so much. So to sum up, a good general bio but it is neither too critical nor too in depth on certain issues.	2004-03-30
US	46462096	R3N269AK0EB7ZX	1578590701	271647361	Unexplained!: Strange Sightings, Incredible Occurrences & Puzzling Physical Phenomena	Books	5	21	22	N	N	clear concise and objective book	I've been a Jerome Clark fan for years..He always presents a clear concise and objective view of whatever subject he tackles.Mr. Clark presents both sides fairly and attempts to provide a balanced report without the hysterical fanaticism of the &quot;believers&quot; or the rabid negativism of the skeptics. He (and his old partner Loren Coleman) are good examples of the old school reporters who understand the difference between fact and opinion. Mr. Clark is one of the few authors in this area that does not seem to have a pet theory about the mysterious phenomena. This book lists many famous cases with proof both for and against the &quot;experts&quot; explanations. Well researched and written, this book is a must read for any serious (or just curious) reader of unexplained phenomena. You can trust Jerome Clark to always lay out a well researched and balanced view. I do.	2002-01-11
US	46462096	R3KB56X3Y1C32D	0810939762	131267082	James McNeill Whistler	Books	5	15	19	N	N	The artist as the perfectionist	This book does an excellent job of exploring the many contradictions of the life and career of an artist who was both his own biggest fan/promoter and his own harshest critic. The book presents the many talents (artist,etcher,interior designer to name a few) and his many flaws (vain, arrogant, bitter and self serving attitude) while still showing the human side of the artist . The illustrations are complete and a glorious showing of both his popular works as well as his less known pieces. The triad of this book, &quot;Diabolical Designs&quot; and &quot;Beyond the Myth&quot; reveal an artist who deserves much more critical and popular attention.	2001-03-13
