US	46590065	R2KKE4ORGD8HOV	0385333641	580864553	From Here to Eternity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gritty... engrossing tale of life in the Army	WOW!  I loved this book.  I had seen the movie years ago, and thought it was a good story, but I was not ready for the book to be so well written.. and so intense.  This is a story that truly peels back the surface and shows what it's like to be a soldier.<br /><br />Jones holds nothing back as he describes each character in blunt detail.  He weaves the plot around these archetypes without arriving at a nice, clean ending.  No, instead he preserves the consistancy of stubborness of his characters right to the bitter end.  Even if you are not a fan of war books, get this one.  It is gritty.	2004-12-10
US	46590065	R1BDBAOXG7MZ0S	0060005726	767737564	Play Poker Like the Pros	Books	5	2	7	N	N	A fantastic book for hold'em...	Phil Hellmuth has quite a reputation in the world of professional poker players.  His multiple WSOP and other tournament championships in addition to his 'lively' personality at the tables makes him an exraordinary character.  So, I was anxious to get this book when I heard it was out.<br />WOW!  What a mind for poker this guy has (especally texas hold em).  I have read a few books now on probablities and statistics.  They were all good for helping me choose which hands to play... which is very important, but its really only half the game.<br />Hellmuth filled in the second half with this book by teaching my how to bet.  I play a much more aggressive (and profitable) game now that I have both read and taken some time to think about the information in this book.  If you are serious about improving your game, read this one a few times, and take some time to think about the lessons therein.  You will benefit no little.	2003-12-04
US	46590065	R1ZVZWFOM1EF3I	1880685086	825219304	Hold 'Em Poker	Books	5	9	9	N	N	my game got better	Until recently I was a devout 7 card stud player, but now that I have been playing and learning texas hold em.. I am hooked.<br />Sklansky, the author of this great book, once worked as an actuary.  Basically, it was his job to figure out all of the probabilities for insurance companies and limit their risk.  That's almost exactly what he does for the serious hold em player with this book.  He teaches you how to limit your risk and play the best hands time and time again.  Anybody can sit down and play a few hours and get lucky...  But, it takes a diciplined skill set and a solid knowledge of probabilities to win consistantly.  Sklansky tells you how.<br />Until I read this book, I was up and down a lot.  Now, I am playing a much more stable game.  My losses are smaller and my wins are a little bigger.<br />Read this book to get a good solid foundation for hold em poker and then go out there and bust up some fish at the tables :^)	2003-12-02
US	46590065	R1HWYYYGGJBZ1V	0393308626	639608055	The Far Side of the World (Vol. Book 10)  (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	smart and funny adventure on the high seas	Having seen the recent movie preview for &quot;Master and Commander&quot;, I was intrigued to learn more about this story and its author.  Turns out, he has written a whole 'sea chest' of these adventue at sea titles...  and this one is a fantastic read!<br />Closely following history, and using as much detail as possible to keep the reader informed without distracting from the plot, the author both educates and entertains the reader with his detailed knowledge of early 19th century sea life aboard a British war ship.  The plot for this title is simple.  A British naval ship, with the heroic Commander Jack Aubrey, is sent to puruse and capture a pesky American ship that on a mission to disrupt Btritish whaling operations in the south Pacific.<br />I liked the book for many reasons.  First, I love reading history, and historical ficiton.  I love reading about people who had the courage to climb aboard a small wooden ship and sail to the other side of the world knowing that half the crew would probably not survive or return home...  It's the modern equivilent of half a dozen guys jumping inside a rocket and launching themselves to the planet Mars, but without GPS navigation, computers and all of the other technical gadgets that we rely on today.  They went to unknown and dangerous places as if it was routine.  I love these guys...  and i loved this book.	2003-11-02
US	46590065	R10LFF69YEGANF	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	1	1	N	N	smart, deep and surprising book	This book is one of the most interesting I have read in a long time.  The premise made me stop what I was doing and buy it on the spot.<br />A man and a tiger are stranded together on a lifeboat.  How do they survive?<br />I won't present the reader with plot details or a synopsis of the story here. Many other reviewers have already done a fine job of that.  I will say that after having finished this book in a very short time, it was impossible to put down, I can report that it was everything I wanted it to be and more.  The writing is smart, deep and even surprising at times...<br /><br />Get this book and read it.  as the author says in the beginning... it's a story that will make you believe in God.<br />I already believe in God, but now I believe in a new author as well.  Can't wait until I read his next book.	2003-06-03
US	46590065	R2U7Z01LXQHOOF	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Hey!  I'm on Atkins too!	After witnessing family, friends and co-workers lose weight by &quot;doing Atkins&quot;, I decided to get the book and give it a try.  I am not a big meat eater by nature.  For a time, I was even a vegatarian, but nonetheless, I am willing to try anything new to see how it effects me.<br />After reading and following the advice in the book for about 10 days now, I can report that I have lost only a few pounds so far (I only need to lose about 15).  Mostly, I notice that my clothes fit better, I have more energy and I never experience those &quot;blood sugar ups and downs&quot; that I used to have everyday..<br />If you are overweight or just curious about alternative nutritional methods, goive this one a try.  The book is easy to read.  I learned a lot about how the digestive system works and how blood sugar is regulated in the body.  In my opinion, it was worth the price just for that understanding alone.	2003-05-07
US	46590065	R7B09R5XO9ORK	0684803305	874197393	A Bridge Too Far: The Classic History of the Greatest Battle of World War II	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Engrossing and well written!	I enjoyed this book a great deal.  It details the events surrounding Operation Market Garden, a fierce Western Theatre WWII battle.<br />It was a daring plan and not without great risk.  The idea: to drop a huge number of British &amp; American paratroopers and supplies throughout Holland along the river to capture and secure bridges for the remaining ground forces waiting in France to eventually cross over into Germany.  Ultimately, numerous casualities were to be had on both sides.  There were some surpirses (as many in Holland thought that the German army had been whipped and the war was going to come to a quick finish).  Allied forces were surprised as well when the scattered German army regrouped to meet them at the border to prevent them from conquering their Fatherland.<br />If you like war stories you will find this book to be well written and completely engrossing.  Mr Ryan was one of the inspirations behind those great WWII books written by Steven Ambrose.  If you like his work you should read this book as well.  I give it a solid four stars.	2003-04-11
US	46590065	R1DOKE2LUZNHC2	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The misadventures of a real genius	I saw Frank Abagnale at a conference in 1997.  After listening to him speak for three hours to a group of Accountants, I knew just about every way a person could fake a check... and get away with it.<br />He began by explaining that there is no real punishment for money crimes, most get off with light sentances in minimum security prisons or no sentances at all. And it is so EASY to fake a check.  I was most impressed by his confident attitude and matter of fact approach.  He has spent a lifetime in the study of check fraud (and other frauds) and has come full circle.  The purpose of his life now: to teach others how to protect themselves from getting conned.<br />I love this guy...  and I loved his book!  It's a real roller coaster ride that takes you through his life as a young man... where he basically just made up whatever life he wanted to live.  Not only did he have courage beyond the extraordinary, but he had exceptional luck in many cases.  A deadly combination to those in his path.<br />I think what I liked most about this story is the fact that in spite of his breaking the law... there is a great lesson in it.  You can accomplish anything you want in life if you have high confidence and a strong character (and a little luck).<br />Get this book and read it.  You will not be disappointed. (note: it is quite different from the movie and in my opinion, much better.)	2003-04-11
US	46590065	R3PNMQSB3LYNMR	1560252758	985681969	The Gangs of New York: An Informal History of the Underworld	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Full of Surprises...	This book surprised me from the very beginning when I discovered it was written in the 1920s...  (For some reason, I thought it was written a few years ago)<br />Having LOVED the recent movie by Martin Scorcese... I thought this book would unfold as a historical drama/love story surrounded by all of those strange but endearing underworld characters.<br />As I read on, I found many of the same characters, but they were now in an entirely different story.  This book is nothing like the movie... although, honestly, I was not disappointed in it at all.<br />I enjoy reading about historical events that are not really taught in school.  The detailed descriptions of the draft riots were interesting and horrifying at the same time.  With half a dozen 'negros' being lynched every day for a week... (and many people think that racism only existed in the south during the Civil War)  How many people know that Union forces fired Artillery into crowds.  Artillery.  Cannons...  Lincoln is a popular president today, but can you imagine Bill Clinton authorizing the US Army to fire a howitzer into the crowd during the LA riots...?<br />Anyway, I liked this book very much and I would recommend it to anyone who reads and enjoys American history.  New York is an old city with many stories... this is one of them.	2003-02-08
US	46590065	R29LL9MZ6D3ZYU	0375504532	667795105	Norman Rockwell: A Life	Books	3	8	10	N	N	a story about pure determinitaion and persistance	This book gets a solid three stars for its interesting subject matter and honest approach in storytellng.<br />Norman Rockwell, unlike his 'perfect' scenes of life in America, did not live a perfect life.  His story is filled whith many of the challenges and obstacles that all of us face in our everyday lives...  Perhaps that's why his work comes across with such clarity and truthfulness.<br />Starting out as an ad illustrator at a young age, he moved up in status over the years until his work was considerd not only the best in modern commercial illustration but some even began calling it &quot;Fine Art&quot;.  How did he accomplish such a feat?  Hard work.  Everyday in the studio he would put in 10-12 hours... working hard to get the next five projects done because ten more are waiting and they are 6-12 months overdue.  (Norman was a workaholic who had a hard time saying no to requests.)<br />If you like his artwork, or if you want to read a story about pure determinitaion and persistance (...of Cal Ripkin caliber), scan your eyes across a few hundred pages of this one.  It was certainly worth the time I spent reading it.	2003-01-29
US	46590065	R24NORFL1CZ9IC	0684848015	340472252	Citizen Soldiers: The U. S. Army from the Normandy Beaches to the Bulge to the Surrender of Germany	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A story of those who gave their lives for freedom...	I was awestruck by the recent miniseries \\"Band of Brothers\\" based on Easy Company of the 101st Airborne as they fought their way through France and into Germany to end WWII.  So, I picked up this book to read more about the brave soldiers that fought to liberate Europe.<br />I LOVED this book.  It is filled with story after story as told to the author by the men and women who were actually there fighting from D-Day plus one to the surrender of the German Army almost a year later.  Most people don't realize the American and British were taking incredible risks to land at Normandy and attack a German Army that had better tanks, better artillery and better airplanes... and the Germans knew the landscape inside out and were usualy dug in for the fight.  But, the US Army had something the German Army didn't have, \\"citizen\\" soldiers.<br />The German army was made up of extremely well-trained men, but they were not fighting for a cause so much as the allied forces were.  In addition, as the author details in his book, the US Army was made up of soldiers who took individual initiative to get things done, even if it meant breaking the rules some of the time.  The US Army won against the odds because they wrere willing to do \\"whatever it took to get the job done\\".<br />You have probably seen \\"Saving Private Ryan\\" and maybe \\"Band of Brothers\\".  Get this book and learn more about the citizen soldiers who fought and died to make the western world a free place to live.  This book made me feel sad at the tragic loss of so many people in that generation, but proud to be an American who believes all people are meant to be free.	2002-12-06
US	46590065	RTOUVI8Z0T2XI	0670030260	118805264	Secret Knowledge: Rediscovering the Lost Techniques of the Old Masters	Books	4	26	33	N	N	See the Old Masters through a New Lens	For centuries, it seems that art history has taught us that the &quot;Old Masters&quot; had special divine powers and were given gifts from God to create such works of genius.  It would also seem that most serious art critics, art teachers and artists alike agree that these old works of art are like miracles and the creators are to be worshipped.<br />David Hockney has wriiten a book that shines a new light on the Old Masters and their more scientific techniques, while not taking away any of their abilities as artists.<br />Secret Knowledge is a book detailing his theory that around 1430, some artists began using optics to project their subject onto the canvas, thus maing it easier to create stunning realism.  Some people would hear this idea and say &quot;Oh, he is saying that they were not geniuses... that they were cheating!&quot;<br />Not so.<br />While making a rather persuasive argument through words and pictures that lenses and mirrors were almost certainly used, he maintains throughout the book that it still takes a talented artist to create a masterpiece.  The optical devices did not replace the artist, they only enhanced his ability to create more stunning realism.<br />I found his arguments interesting and enlightening...  and if you are a student of art, or have any interest in the history of fine arts, I think you would enjoy this Book for its ideas and its many beautiful reproductions of artwork.  Get this one today and See the &quot;Old Masters&quot; through a &quot;new lens&quot;.	2002-10-18
US	46590065	RSJMLGAEQ8R9F	0345339711	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	great modern mythology!	I found this book to be a great companion on my recent business travels.  Having enjoyed the movie version of part one with its abrupt ending... I picked up this book to ease my curious mind.<br />I have been warned by some that Tolkien's writing is long and boring, but I did not find it to be that way at all.  The book is much more detailed than I anticipated and sometimes the story goes off on tangents, but I always found them interesting.<br />Mostly, I like this book, and the entire three part story, becuase it is filled with so many mythological symbols and lessons.  I am a huge fan of Joseph Campbell and his writings on &quot;The Power of Myth&quot;.  This story is such a fine example of modern myth written to not only tell a interesting story, but to continue the tradition of teaching life's lessons and secrets through mythological stories.<br />I would highly recommend this book and the other two in the series, as well.	2002-10-15
US	46590065	RKTN46T66TNJS	0060934913	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	4	5	6	N	N	beneath the surface of fine dining	As with many things, there is what we see on the surface, and there is what lies underneath.  Here is a book that is sharply written about what happens behind the scenes in a typical restaurant.  If you are faint of heart, you will probably want to skip this one.  However, I _love_ eating out at restaurants and thanks to this book I now have an even deeper appreciation for what goes on there.<br />The author pulls no punches.  Detailed and graphic are his descriptions of the many perils of chopping, slicing and the occasional finger tip lost.  In addition, the frightening description of a experienced chef's hands... covered in burns, scars and callouses from a lifetime of grabbing hot things and slicing a centimeter in the wrong direction... and the author's desire to have hands &quot;like that one day&quot;.<br />A most enjoyable part of the book is the detailing of his first encounter in a high-energy, upscale restaurant kitchen and the pressures that go along with working in this military-like atmosphere.  Do your job quickly and without error or the drill seargent (executive chef) will be all over you in his loudest and meanest tribute to &quot;Full Metal Jacket&quot;.  Get this one and read it for laughs and the occasional jaw drop.  I did and don't regret it one bit.	2002-10-15
US	46590065	RZVKFU85GAQE	0345339738	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An exciting conclusion to the classic trilogy	After finishing the second book in The Lord of the Rings trilogy, The Two Towers, I rushed out and got this one immediately.  I couldn't wait to see what would happen next.<br />Although, I enjoyed the second book a little more than this one, this is still an exciting conclusion to the series and is a must read.  I especially liked the part with Gollum and the two hobbits traveling together.  While they are tempted several times to kill Gollum for his wickedness, something prevents them and in the end it saves everything.<br />I thought this was an interesting message.  While I am firm believer in free-will... sometimes you just don't know what fate has in store for you.  This book is a great story about believing in your mission in life and having faith that if you press on fate will come to your aid, even if it's in an unexpected way.<br />I wish there were more writers out there who would take on such stories and handle them as masterfully as Tolkien has done.	2002-10-15
US	46590065	R196EIAZYKKM27	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	2	11	24	N	N	There�s sumthin' funny in the cow sandwich!	Hamburgers come from chopped up cows.  Chicken sandwiches are made out of chopped up chickens.  French fries are, you guessed it, chopped up potatoes fried in lots of grease.<br />I have discovered these and many more startling facts in Eric Schlosser`s book \\"Fast Food Nation\\".<br />It seems to me that the author spares no expense in his detailed expose' on the shocking details that lurk behind the iron cutrtain of the corporate fast food industry.  This book describes in great detail how he travels the country talking to different people to learn their industry secrets.  With his journey now concluded, he has decided to share this remarkable story.<br />The core message:  Eating fast food is bad for you.<br />I know now that in addition to it being a bad idea to consume fast food, it is also not very good to work for a company associated with the fast food industry.  Workers in meat packing plants have gross jobs.  They get blood on their clothes and sometimes cut themselves by accident.<br />I get the feeling by reading this book that, perhaps, I am supposed to find this hard to believe.  So... maybe I'm a little ahead of the pack, but for many years I have (honestly) suspected that a slaughterhouse is not a nice place to spend the afternoon.  In fact, I have witnessed firsthand that at a rapid pace they chop up nice animals there (with no regard for them whatsoever).  Eventually, they slice and dice them into little single serving pieces.  These pieces are fried up with cheese added (perhaps special sauce) and consumed by the millions daily.  There must be a huge demand for it.<br />Maybe I am a genius then to have already discovered that eating fried red meat, fried chicken or fried potatoes everyday can be bad for your health.  Seriously, I can see what the author is trying to say in this book.  But, for the most part, he tells the \\"obvious\\" truths.<br />If you eat a lot of burgers and fries, and you're feeling sick and overweight and don't know why... go ahead and read this book.  Otherwise, you might flip through it to read the gross parts just for fun...  it has the most disgusting descriptions of slaughterhouse realties since Sinclair's \\"The Jungle\\"...  favorites like: A lake of cow you-know-what, rivers of blood flowing down the drain and a heap of cow guts to be found in many nooks and the occasional cranny.<br />I give this book two stars.  One for being written with acceptable grammer, and one for being sometimes gross, which amused me no little.ahead and read this book.  Otherwise, you might flip through it to read the gross parts just for fun...  it has the most disgusting descriptions of slaughterhouse realties since Sinclair's \\"The Jungle\\"...  favorites like: A lake of cow you-know-what, rivers of blood flowing down the drain and a heap of cow guts to be found in many nooks and the occasional cranny.<br />I give this book two stars.  One for being written with acceptable grammer, and one for being sometimes gross, which amused me no little.	2002-09-20
US	46590065	R1NUGVY3WPIMM	0761536418	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at  Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	5	47	78	N	N	A different look at our 'greatest' president	The latest polls place Abe Lincoln at the top of the list of \\"Greatest Presidents\\".  Indeed, few of our nation's past leaders are as reveared (and practically worshipped) as much as Honest Abe is today.<br />This book takes a different look at his presidency and offers some challenging new ideas for \\"Lincoln Lovers\\".  Indeed, anyone who has read some decent civil war history outside of a high school or college textbooks will know that the civil war was about much more than the just the one issue of slavery and abolition.  Like many wars throughout history, they are usually about money and power.<br />You will find within its pages a clear and concise arguement against the more popular view of Abe Lincoln.  Thomas J. Dilorenzo describes a very clear picture of what the Lincoln presidency was REALLY about...<br />raising import tariffs in the south to get more money...<br />ignoring the constitution whenever it didn't suit his agenda...<br />using \\"dictator-like\\" tactics to increase his power...<br />and ultimately increasing the power of the federal gvt. itself.<br /><br />I always enjoy a book that has the guts to argue against the popular myths that we are usually taught in school in place of any real history.  Get this book and see Honest Abe from a different point of view.	2002-09-16
US	46590065	R1V90OTEFWRI0T	0785274308	425047162	Failing Forward: Turning Mistakes Into Stepping Stones for Success	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Failures are an _essential_ part of the learning process	It seems that many people live their lives as if there were a loaded .44 magnum pointed at their head.. if they make one little mistake 'Dirty Harry' is right there to pull the trigger.  Indeed, we are taught in school to get 'perfect' grades... and receive punishment for making mistakes.<br />The message of Failing Forward is that this disease of perfectionism keeps us all from living our lives to the fullest and prevents us from finding happiness and realising our potential.<br />This book contains many theories about how failure is _not_ automatically bad.  The author leads each chapter with a specfic idea on failing and then follows up with real-life examples of people who have failed many times in their life, but ultimately became very successful. (e.g. R.H. Macy (dept. store king), John James Audobon (nature lover and artist), Truett Cathy (founder, Chick-Fil-A))  Indeed, these people and hundreds of others like them all experienced failure in thier lifetimes, but they did not let that get in their way.  Further, they used their &quot;setbacks&quot; as both education and inspiration to propell them to new heights.<br />Nothing extraordinary happens to anyone who sits and waits for it to come to him.  One must be willing and ready to get up and start making mistakes.  The sooner the better because the more mistakes you make, the smarter you become.  The more setbacks you encounter, the stronger you become.  The more failures you endure, the better you become at taking on life's challenges and ultimately winning in the end.<br />If you are feeling like a &quot;Failure&quot; for any reason, large or small... get this book and read it today. You will be surprised at how empowered it will make you feel.	2002-08-29
US	46590065	R27CW2E7KSC4FR	0312242840	901384112	The Acorn Principle: Know Yourself, Grow Yourself	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Know thyself is the message	Jim Cathcart has written a great book detailing what it takes to discover and develop your hidden potential.  He states that every person has a certain kind of unlocked talent (like the acorn) inside of them...  a certain genius, and to be happy and successful all you have to do is discover and develop it.  &quot;The oak sleeps within you&quot;<br />This book guides you through some detailed questions and exercises to help you in finding your &quot;highest and best use&quot;.  I took the time to actually write down answers to the questions he puts forth in my journal.  It was interesting and well worth the time spent.<br />I must confess... I have read many self-help books of this type over the past five years.  I cannot say that I was blown away by the originalty of this book.  However, had this been the first book of its type that I ever picked up, it would have easily ranked near the top of my list.  His ideas are clear and concise, but mainly focused at the 'beginner' so to speak.<br />So, if you are unhappy in your current situation, job, life... try to look inside and see what is going on in there.  What lies dormant within you is just waiting to grow into something big.  Jim Cathcart's book can certainly help!	2002-08-23
US	46590065	R2CEX4RCC1L803	0425081028	993297538	Zig Ziglar's Secrets of Closing the Sale: For Anyone Who Must Get Others to Say Yes!	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Wisdom and Guidance from the MASTER!	Zig IS THE MAN!<br />Most people in the world experience what is known as NSR...  that is Natural Sales Resistance.  That is not to say that people dislike sales...  but most people dislike and DISTRUST salespeople.  A few bad apples can spoil the bunch.  For many years, I too was to be included in this catagory of sales reistance...  until I discovered Zig Ziglar.<br />Here Zig presents the reasons why if one is to be successful in sales one must have integrity.  One must believe in the product they are selling and _truly_ believe that it will benefit their prospect.<br />Anyone can be a high-pressure slaestype and force people to buy with gimmicks and tricks... but those people are amateurs.  Zig teaches the foundation for building a sales career based on honesty and a genuine desire to help other people.<br />The entire book can be summed up in this quote...  &quot;You can have anything you want in life if you will help enough other people get what they want.&quot;<br />I love this book.  If you are a seasoned sales professional or just starting out in this exciting field, get this book and read it.  It will guide you in the right direction!	2002-05-30
US	46590065	R3K92OZ9C9GNCN	0449214923	649075594	Think and Grow Rich	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Secrets are Found Within...	Is it true that by simply changing your thoughts you can completely change what you have in life?  How could it be that simple?  It is, but first you have to believe.<br />Most people want to see something happen, then believe in it.  To be succesful you have to do the opposite.  Believe in it first, then you will see it.  That's is one of the key messages in this book written almost 70 years ago....  It reads like it was written yesterday<br />The title says it all.  &quot;Think and Grow Rich&quot;, but it is NOT just a book about making money.  I am certain many people from all walks of life could benefit from this work, regardless of their opinion of money and riches.  The message is clear: You may have whatever you want in life... if you can discover the secret within its pages.<br />I first read this book when I was a teenager.  I am not sure it made much of an impression on me.  I picked it up recently and I can't believe how much it has changed.  Of course, that's nonsense.  The book is the same, only my mind is now ready to see what the secret is...<br />Get this book and see if you can unlock the Secret to finding 'riches' for yourself.	2002-05-30
US	46590065	R16MZNIQ1CWMC8	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	5	2	2	N	N	it's the 'riche' that counts...	Being a fan of Clint Eastwood, I saw the movie when it came out and liked it very much.  I finally got around to reading the book and was VERY much surprised.  It's almost a completely different story, and ten times better than the movie...  The characters are so rich and interesting and they are described with such honesty.<br />I had the opportunity to visit Savannah a few weeks ago and was immediately taken by its charm.  It's like a clean New Orleans.  So, reading the book makes me want to move there and be friends with all of these eccentric southern people...  The old money and the nouveau riche. like Jim Williams said, &quot;it's the riche that counts&quot;<br />So, I would recommend this book to anyone who loves the south as much as I do, (and to any yankee who might have a morbid curiousity concerning what all that fuss was about back in 1861).  Understanding the south and southerners is not a feat easily accomplished.  However, this book is testament to that even a New Yorker  :^) can warm up to the old south given the right circumstances.	2001-11-21
US	46590065	R1FRTVKU2ZNT9P	0060194626	275282410	The Last Dive: A Father and Son's Fatal Descent into the Ocean's Depths	Books	4	3	3	N	N	the greatest risk takers don't always survive...	More like two brothers than father and son, Chris and Chrissy Rouse met their fate while exploring a newly discovered German U-boat in deep water off the coast of New Jersey.  Far from the normal safe depth of 130 ft for recreational divers, this german wreck split in two on the ocean floor (200+ feet below the surface) lured father and son to explore its deep interior in search of a log book that would reveal its secrets.<br />They had been this deep before, and on normal compressed air instead of safer mixed gas. But carelessness and lack of focus will catch up to any diver no matter how much experience they may have. This book tells the story of such carelessness.  Even the author himself, a veteran diver suffered from the bends when he had to abort his decompression stops from making a simple mistake while diving another deep water wreck, the famous Andrea Doria.<br />I really enjoyed this book.  Having recently gained my first scuba certification, I am just beginning to explore the underwater world.  When I can't be in the water, I can still be learning and gaining precious knowledge that may one day save my life or the life of a fellow diver.<br />I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in scuba, or to anyone who likes to read stories about those who take risks doing what they love.  The greatest risk takers don't always survive, but it's better to lose your life doing what you love then to never have really lived at all.	2001-08-01
US	46590065	R3NHHBZR7BTA4E	047140733X	911902765	Goldfinder: The True Story of $100 Million In Lost Russian Gold -- and One Man's Lifelong Quest to Recover It	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A tale of one seriously determined man	I love stories about determination.  This book stands out as one of the best I have read in a long time.  The author has led a life of salvage diving mostly off the coast of England, but ultimately he went after the mother lode in the deepest, coldest darkest waters of his time.  The HMS Edinburgh in the North Atlantic.<br />He begins his book with scary tales of his first endeavours.  Himself and a few buddies with almost no training or education in scuba taking on early salvage operations in leaky Royal Navy surplus wet suits pulling up various non-ferrous metals from forgotten wrecks and taking them to the local scrap dealer for whatever they can get.<br />Fast forward through many adventures and misadventures in salvage diving and finally the story of how a determined man pulled literally tons of gold buillion of out a ship that was in water too deep for anyone to even think of diving it at the time.  More than that, the gold was stored next to room on the ship that was full of live forty year old live bombs.<br />I loved this book and recommened it to divers and non-divers alike.	2001-07-17
US	46590065	RPIOSSWAQ2RN8	1878348299	114918311	Diving Guide to Underwater Florida (10th Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Most Comprehensive Guide!!	A most comprehensive guide to dive sites in the state of Florida from Pensacola to Key West and all points in between, including many great spring dives in and around my neck of the woods, Central Florida.<br />The book breaks down the entire state into regions and lists the best dives in each region: Reefs, Wrecks, Springs and Caves from 20fsw to technical dives in the 200fsw range.  All the necessary details are there for each dive location.  You can plan a multiple day, multiple dive trip with this in depth volume and never leave the easy chair.  Of course, it is always smart to check local conditions to see what going on in any area before you go flying into the water.<br />If you're a diver living in Florida, you must get this book.  I know in a few short years my copy will be sufficiently salt sprayed, tattered and worn.	2001-07-17
US	46590065	R1S9BP6ICD0C1W	1565923251	51644288	Webmaster in a Nutshell (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid	As with all o'reilly books I have read, or browsed through, this one gets right to the point.<br />&quot;Webmaster in a nutshell&quot; is a great overview of the basic tools used in building and maintaining a web site.  However, this is not a book for the right-brain-left-wing web artists out there.  There's no design tips, no pictures and best of all they have left out the obligatory four page 'History of the Internet&quot;  that seems to accompany any and all books of this type.  I think one guy wrote that a few years ago and they just xerox it into each book.<br />Overall, I would rate this book as not too deep, not too shallow, but JUST RIGHT.  I loved this book and I recommened it to anyone from beginner to advanced.  Bottom Line: It's a great reference book and a whole lot more.	2001-06-22
US	46590065	RJT8L6R8ZRWV	0446678333	443699856	Rich Dad Advisor's Series®: SalesDogs: You Do Not Have to Be an Attack Dog to Be Successful in Sales (Rich Dad's Advisors)	Books	5	28	35	N	N	To sell, must you bark or bite...?	This is a wonderful new book written as part of the new Rich Dad's Advisors series.  Robert Kiyosaki has asked some of his closest friends to write books on their areas of expertise.  Blair Singer stepped forward to contribute his take on salsemenship.<br />'Sales Dogs' is pretty straightfoward.  It's a series of comparisons between different types of sales people and different breeds of dogs.<br />Have you ever seen the movie 'Glengary Glen Ross'??  I kept thinking of those characters as I read this book.  There's the fierce Pit Bull (Alec Baldwin) who moves in quickly for the kill.  There's the old fashioned, loveable Bassett Hound (Jack Lemmon)... who gently walks up to you and nudges your leg and then there's the ultra smooth talking, highly polished french poodle (Al Pachino).<br />I loved this book.  It makes some really great comparisions between man's best friend.. and man's (occasional) worst enemy.  If you are in the pursuit of financial literacy, I highly recommend this one, with any or all of the other 'rich dad' books.	2001-06-13
US	46590065	R1OKFDQ42UJ8WT	0374185522	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great book on understanding the &quot;New Global Economy&quot;!	I read this book on the recommendation of Robert Kiyosaki.  In one of his books, he mentions the concept of the &quot;Electronic Herd&quot; (borrowed from &quot;The Lexus and the Olive tree&quot;) and how much power they have...  How they can move billions of dollars out of a country and into another with the click of a mouse.  Interesting reading.<br />So, what is this book all about?  Its about the old economy versus the new economy... but on a Global scale.  Much like the works of R. Buckminster Fuller, Thomas Friedman has a comprensive view, a global view of economics...  after travelling all over the world for the past 20 years as a Foreign Affairs Columnist for the New York Times.<br />I love this book.  It's not what I expected at all.  I figured it would be filled with stories about how greedy, selfish and uncaring Americans are when people are starving in third world nations.  But the author surprised me.  Instead of taking that old tired course, he offers fresh insights and ideas on what is happening to different economies all over the world when they are faced with electronic commerce and exchange.<br />He presents much anecdotal evidence that if you are the leader of a third world nation, you can move ahead and build a bustling economy if you understand exactly what is happening and are willing to throw out old ideas (i.e. communism, facism, dictatorships).<br />Capitalism is not perfect, but right now it is the best system mankind has yet invented... but don't take my word for it, read the five hundred examples in this book of how (blended properly with the internet technologies) it is improving the standard of living all over the world.<br />The world is getting smaller, but that is not necessarily a bad thing.	2001-05-13
US	46590065	R6ZAHNARI0F3C	0141000198	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Not what I expected... but v.g.	I read this book with great reluctancy.  A friend of mine recommened it strongly..  but I had to ask myself: Who the heck is Bridget Jones?  and why would I care about reading her diary? One day I picked it up to see what all the fuss was about and after two pages I couldn't stop laughing.<br />Bridget Jones sees life from such an interesting point of view...  she is crazed, loony and neurotic, yet at the same time she is like many of us.  She makes promises to herself to bettter her life, but usually gets distracted by someone or something else along the way.<br />Like John Lennon said &quot;Life is what happens to you while you are making other plans&quot;.<br />She is trying her very best to get what she wants, but usually the outcome is well handled by fate instead.  Finally, in the end, she ends up getting most of what she wants.<br />Highly recommened if you need a good laugh at the misfortunes and misadventures of life.<br />must write book review on second book now and try to be brilliant yet humble in a serious, pseudo-journalistic tone...	2001-04-26
US	46590065	R3L5FT9MGBJYH6	0738203793	426491512	Buckminster Fuller's Universe: His Life and Work	Books	5	32	36	N	N	New ideas on every page...	I love to read books that I don't completely understand the first time through.  This is certainly one of those books.<br />Part biography, part scientific dissertation, the author enlightens us on the wonderful and extraordinary life of R. Buckminster Fuller, a true renaissance man.<br />Many people have never even heard of Buckminster Fuller... but his ideas, inventions and philosophy have touched the lives of everyone on here on 'Spaceship Earth' as he liked to call it.<br />Just take a trip down to Epcot in Orlando, FL and see a geodesic sphere in real life, one that engineers and construction types said would not stand... its been standing there for almost 20 years now.  Or, look down the street to the Contemporary Resort at the Magic Kingdom.  Built entirely with modular construction and finished in record time.. a la &quot;Bucky&quot; Fuller.<br />Certainly this man was a great innovator... but what I was most impressed with was his 'comprensivist' point of view.  He always strove to see the big picture of what is happening on Earth as well as the entire Universe around us.<br />Get this book if you want to open you mind to new ideas and paradigms.  It has changed the way I look at many different things now.	2001-04-24
US	46590065	R3P81IXN0XZZWH	0345351819	421831527	1: The Book of Tofu: Protein Source of the Future--Now!	Books	4	30	36	N	N	Tofu... just what the heck is it?	Well, I have decided to return to vegetarianism...  if that's the proper term.  I gave up meat once before in college and enjoyed the many benefits of doing so.  However, with a busy schedule and little time for eleborate meal planning, I always had difficulty finding the right things to eat.  I have decided this time to better educate myself on what my choices are. I read this book because I had looked over a few vegetarian cookbooks and they are filled with recipes containing tofu.  I kept asking myself... Just what the heck is it??<br />Well, EVERYTHING you ever wanted to know about tofu is to be found in this volume, including the reasons why tofu is a better choice not only for your health, but for the sake of world resources as the population of our planet increases.<br />I am not an environmentalist, not even close.  If people want to eat animals, I don't mind.  So, I do not generally agree with those who say that eating meat is &quot;wrong&quot;... But, I do have a genuine respect for any argument that champions efficiency over waste.  After reading this book, I was surprised at how much grain it takes (in pounds) to produce just one ounce of red meat...  which tastes mighty fine, but is not exactly the perfect source of protein and really shouldn't be eaten on a daily basis. (Texans forgive me.)<br />So, all in all I recommened this book if you are thinking changing your lifestyle, or perhaps pondering the possibility of cutting back on your intake of saturated fat etc...<br />Ben Franklin was a vegetarian...  If he could do it 200 years ago, then we cetainly have no excuse.	2001-03-28
US	46590065	RRH4X6B2GEZ83	1566631580	886650964	The Disney Version: The Life, Times, Art and Commerce of Walt Disney	Books	1	12	24	N	N	a negative bio of a very positive man	Walt Disney died in 1966, only a few months after being disgnosed with cancer.  In 1968, Richard Schickel rushed his book &quot;The Disney Version&quot; to the press as as some kind of &quot;revealing&quot; obituary that would supposedly enlighten us all on the myth and legend of this 'terrible' man.  The overall tone of the book was that now he would tell everyone the &quot;truth&quot; about what a fraud Disney was.  In reality, the book is full of opinions and assumptions and untruths.<br />He claims in the beginning of the book that, when asked, Walt couldn't even write his name in the style of his famous trademark signature.  Mr. Schickel claims that Walt hired a special &quot;signature man&quot; to sign things for him, because in reality he had no talent and ability to do anything on his own... not even write his own name.<br />I had to ask myself... even if he couldn't write his famous signature, does it even matter in comparision to his incredible lifetime achievements?  It seems the author could have strayed away from such petty things, but as I continued to read I found that sadly, the pettyness only worsened.  I suppose if you HATE Walt Disney, you'll find something slightly entertaining in this tabloid style of writing, but even considering that... the writing is not really that intelligent or interesting at all.	2001-03-01
US	46590065	RUG91TMDX049H	0812885147	185675822	Disney's World: A Biography	Books	4	4	6	N	N	an unofficial (and pretty good) bio of Walt Disney	Leonard Mosely has written an interesting book. It tells the story of Walt's life, uncensored, so to speak. Mr. Mosely is a British man who seems to have a decent respect for Walt, and his work is not quite as biased as some others might be. His work, although greatly researched, is not officially endorsed or sponsored by the Walt Disney Copmpany.  (Although, he was allowed to do research in the vaults of the Disney archives, which is pretty rare for an unendorsed book).  In addition, he interviewed most remaining relatives, friends and the Disney's archivists.<br />The book is well-written, and only occasionally does the author stray from the story and interject his personal opinion in place of something interesting about Walt.<br />As with all of the Disney biographies I have read, it always ends just as it is getting to the best part, when Walt was locked up in his &quot;Secret&quot; office planning EPCOT, the city of the future.  Anyway, I liked the book and recommend it to others.  If you are either a fan of Disney or are just interested in the life story of an truly extraordinary man, get this book and read it.	2001-02-28
US	46590065	RBP03Q648I5EC	0345354079	461106299	Storming the Magic Kingdom	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Exciting tale of the transfer of power at Disney in the 80's	Here is a book that describes the corporate aspects of the Walt Disney Company, focusing on the changes that took place in the mid 1980's when the company was on the verge of being taken over by mega rich businessmen and split into 500 small companies.  Ultimately, the company was preserved as one and Michael Eisner took over as CEO.<br />When it comes to Disney, I am not normally interested in the details of big business and high finance, but I found this book quite interesting.  It's hard to believe a company that &quot;all began with a mouse&quot; has grown into such a massive empire of million and sometimes billion dollar deals.<br />I wish someone would write a comprehensive book on the deals that Roy and Walt Disney had to pull off in the early years. Although, less money was involved back then, I am sure their deals were no less heroic or risky.<br />If you like Disney, it's worth a read.  If you're a student or professional of finance, there is much to be learned therein.	2001-02-28
US	46590065	RDO08XKH2DM52	078686348X	757743533	Remembering Walt: Favorite Memories of Walt Disney	Books	5	15	15	N	N	They called him Uncle Walt for a reason	I have read many books on Walt Disney.  He is a personal hero of mine.  Usually, a Walt Disney book will be all positive or all negative.  This book is a bit different.  It consists almost entirely of anecdotes told by those who knew Walt both as a friend and a leader, both good and bad.<br />I feel like I know Walt a lot better after having this book.  From the early days of animation to the creation of Disneyland and Walt Disney World... friends, co-workers, and family members describe this complicated man from every possible perspective.<br />Walt was not a saint or an angel.  Nor was he the devil that some recent biographers have tried to make him out to be.  He was a human being... a complicated human being.  He was a visionary, at least 50 years ahead of his time.  Mostly, he was a miraculous, paternal figure in the lives of everyone close to him and a magical, whimsical personality to almost everyone else in the world.  They called him Uncle Walt for a reason.<br />This incredible collection of photos and stories will be treasured by those who love Walt and should be enjoyed even by those with an occasional curiosity in the man who created an empire based on a mouse.	2001-02-24
US	46590065	R1YLY7J3ZR07SP	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	22	52	N	N	There's poo-poo in the cow sandwich!	Hamburgers come from cows.  Chicken sandwiches are made out of chickens.  French fries are potatoes fried in grease.  These and many more startling facts are uncovered in Eric Schlosser 's &quot;Fast Food Nation&quot;...  If you eat a lot of burgers and fries, and you're feeling sick and overweight and don't know why... read this book.  Otherwise, you might flip through it to read the gross parts just for fun..	2001-02-18
US	46590065	R1KNILUMVYI4YT	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The struggle to find a home...	What happens when two very different people are displaced from their homes due to unfair circumstances?  Naturally, they seek to replace what they have lost.<br />&quot;House of Sand and Fog&quot; tells this particular story with such audacity that I could hardly put it down for a second until I had read the very last page.  Dubus is such a surprisingly rich storyteller.  He alternates between the thoughts of two main characters and is unfailing in this convincing prose as he describes their dangerous paths always converging towards one another with increasing speed and intensity.<br />One house, two different owners.  Col. Behrani was a wealthy, well-respected man in his homeland of Iran before he was forced to flee in the middle of the night due an uprising of the government in his country.  He comes to America to find a new a new home, both literally and figuratively.  He buys a house at auction because someone did not pay their taxes, not surprising this new immigrant.  He looks around and sees that most Americans are ridiculous people.  They have so much opportunity, yet all they do is complain.  They take their freedoms for granted.<br />Kathy Nicolo is one of these Americans.  She has kicked out of  her home due to a government paperwork error...  they say she didn't pay her taxes.  She finds herself in a fog, searching for the way home.  Chain-smoking her way through life's events, oblivious to what is happening around her, she moves from one confrontation to the next in a downward sprial that she feels will only be remedied by returning to her home.  Yet, for all of her faults, she is still endearing.  Kathy lacks maliciousness.  She even has a strange remorse for the wife of the married police officer she is cheating with.<br />Where does a story like this go?  Back and forth for pages and pages.  One minute I was on his side and the next I hated him and wanted her to succeed.<br />How does it all end?  Well, I'm not going to ruin it for you.  Get a copy and find out for yourself.  You will be surprised.  The ending is nothing even CLOSE to predictable!py and find out for yourself.  You will be surprised.  The ending is nothing even CLOSE to predictable!	2001-02-08
US	46590065	R16UXJ0PPJW9NV	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Part rocket science, part James Bond...	I read this book in one sitting.  I picked it up because I like spy stories and I am fascinted with stories of amnesia.  Being an avid follower of the space program, I was even more taken by the fact that it dealt with the lauch of America's first satellite, the explorer.  This book seemed to have been written just for my taste.<br />I enjoyed it quite a bit, even though the plot was a little thin and the characters a bit simpler than I would expect from people in the world of espionage, but this IS a novel set in postwar idyllic America.<br />This book would probably make a good movie with Keanu Reeves and Charlize Theron and a hot soundtrack featuring the Foo Fighters and Shaggy.  I recommend it as a well written, straightforward, interesting spy novel.  Part rocket science, part James Bond...  a good solid four star book.	2001-01-27
US	46590065	R2XM6UWP1LLLMB	0786884592	544357348	Life Strategies: Doing What Works, Doing What Matters	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Empower yourself to better your life... read this book!	I am not usually in tune with the mainstream. I could not tell you very much about who is popular right now.... or if my style of dress is in or out.  So, it is somewhat unusual that I would be aware of the fact that Oprah Winfrey has given Dr. Phil an entire day on her show (tuesday)...  and as a result the &quot;Dr. Phil craze&quot; seems to have swept the nation.<br />Who is the Dr. Phil??  Well, in the Texas trend of the times, what with &quot;Geroge W&quot; being president now and the &quot;Texas Seven&quot; on the lamb (not anymore, of course)... Phil McGraw is a straght talking Texan with a Ph.D. in common sense.<br />His message: Don't like something about your life?  Then change it.  Create a strategy.  Do what works.<br />I like this guy.  He offers nothing but straight practical advice with a constant reminder that self-reliance is the only way.<br />Want to keep blaming others for all of your problems in life?  Fine.  Forget about this book.  But if you want to make a change, check this one out.  There is much to learn.	2001-01-25
US	46590065	R36WY0A0KV2HRX	067977548X	523607559	Faster: The Acceleration of Just About Everything	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Hurry up and read this book!	&quot;Faster&quot; is a book about the modern culture of speeding up to save milliseconds.  James Gleick finds so many interesting aspects of this &quot;age of acceleration&quot; that we are now living in...  further, he wastes no time in describing the many facets of this new lifestyle and the possible ramifications of what he calls &quot;hurry sickness&quot;.<br />Why are we in such a rush?? Are we really saving time? And just what do we DO with those few seconds we seem to save by multitasking even the smallest of our daily activities?<br />&quot;Faster&quot; answers many of those questions and it also looks into other scientific aspects of time and how we perceive it.  I highly recommend this book for those who feel rushed in their lives but don't know why.  I also recommend it for anyone interested in the science of time and time travel.  James Gleick is a genius.  He has an incredible way of provoking the reader to look closer into something and see what is really happening there.<br />Hurry up and read this book, you'll be amazed at what you'll learn.	2001-01-23
US	46590065	R32B8LK95XZ7S4	0671015206	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A story of the REAL Millionaires in America	This is the ultimate textbook on getting rich slow but sure!<br />The authors have spent many years doing research on millionaires throughout the country and in this book they present some very surprising results.  Whatever you might think about the 'average' millionaire in the U.S. you are probably wrong.  I certainly was.<br />When the word millionaire comes to mind, most people see visions of suntanned people driving fast sprots cars, flying in their private jet to exotic locals...  living in a enormous mansion with three pools and a garage for the dog...  The hollywood version of wealth.  Well, this book dispells all of those crazy ideas and replaces them with pure research and reality.  Most millionaires in America achieved their extreme wealth by having their own businesses (plumber, scrap metal, auctioneer are a few very typical examples) and just living a basic, frugal life.<br />Get rich slow...?  but how can you argue with it when it works!  If you want to throw the dice and try to get rich overnight, go ahead.  but If you want a guide book on how to REALLY get rich this is the one to read.<br />Even if you aren't in the pursuit of money, I recommend this book for all of the eye popping stories that will blow away many preconceived notions that you may have.	2001-01-20
US	46590065	R1XPPXAN4RL4VY	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Civil War &quot;Rages&quot; On...	The bloody battles of the civil war ended in April of 1865... but the Civil War still &quot;rages on&quot; in various forms all over the south to this very day.  Find that hard to believe..?  Well, you won't after you read this incredible book.  The author takes us on a journey into the world of the Civil War aficionado.<br />From the description of the grease stained wool uniform he puts on so that he can sleep in an open field in freezing weather with other Civil War reinactors.. to the strange, but real life characters he encounters along the way as he travels throughout the many towns and battlefields of the South... this book kept me turning the pages and laughing out loud at one misadventure after another.  The author goes in search of what little --might-- be left of the confederacy in the modern era and finds out it is alive and well in many interesting... disturbing, but mostly harmless forms.  This is a instant classic for Civil War buffs and regular folk as well.<br />For Americans, no matter what side your ancestors were fighting on... read this book!  You'll learn a few things and probably be surprised a few times as well.	2000-12-30
US	46590065	R3J10H1I59LJI7	0345427505	221309303	Gone for Soldiers: A Novel of the Mexican War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Before the Civil War...	...the legendary characters of North and South fought alongside one another on the battlefields in Mexico.  Robert E. Lee, Winfield Scott, U.S. Grant... all fighting on the same side, but this time on foreign ground.<br />As the book begins, Winfield Scott is a old soldier in command of the U.S. forces in Mexico.  He doesn't get the respect he deserves as the president and other politicians back in Washington are too busy playing their political games to understand or really care what is happening on the battlefield...  But Scott pays them no attention, he is an individual who goes against the grain to accomplish his objectives.  He understands the &quot;true&quot; nature of some of his officers (who are only there to look good and win medals).  But Scott proves to us he is a great leader of men when he recognizes and rewards the nature of his best men who do their duty and find new ways to accomplish their goals.<br />Early in the book we are introduced to one of these great men, a military engineer named Robert E. Lee.<br />Throughout the book, Lee and Scott work together in spite of all the noise and nonesense to achieve victory after victory on the battlefield. Even U.S. Grant makes an appearance at the final battle for Mexico City showing his trademark ingenuity as he fires a cannon from atop a church steeple surprising the enemy.<br />For Civil War buffs, I would highly recommened this book. I have read many a tome on lee and grant, gettysburg, bull run... and loved them all, but there are few stories, good stories about what these great men did before the Civil War and how they gained their much needed experience to prepare them for the great battles they fought against one another.<br />This is a good solid four star book.  I need to read it again.	2000-12-25
US	46590065	R27C067BI8C2V	0446677477	250671212	Rich Dad's Cashflow Quadrant: Rich Dad's Guide to Financial Freedom	Books	5	21	23	N	N	I didn't own a business, I owned a job�	The second in a three book series dedicated to challenging the reader to think and rethink about what money is and how it works.  The Cashflow Quadrant describes the four basic ways to acquire money and then it divides them into four quadrants to illustrate the principles of wealth and how to obtain it under each quadrant.  You can be an employee, self-employed, business owner, or investor.  Which one would you like to do?  Like the tone of his previous work, &quot;Rich Dad, Poor Dad&quot;, Dr. Kiyosaki does not force a single ideology upon the reader.  Instead, he invites the reader to examine all four options and then choose whatever they think is the best one.<br />I have been an employee most of my life, with occasional excursions into self-employment.  Each time, I worked very hard on my businesses, but I never got rich like I thought I would.  Since then I have learned that I needed to change one of my old-fashioned ideas.  I didn't own a business, I owned a job.  And the minute I stopped working... the business stopped working too.  For me, that was one of the most important lessons in the book.  People who are self-employed are out there working themselves to death trying to find financial freedom and they are missing one very important point.  To get rich you should own a business that can run with or without you having to be there.  I love this guy.<br />Want to be an investor???  Well, you can do that too, but you need to know what it really means first.  Get out there and read this book!  You'll kick yourself for not having done so sooner.  And you will, hopefully, change some bad financial habits into good ones.	2000-12-20
US	46590065	R1ZHDRPQGKO8AO	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	5	47	48	N	N	What kind of money problems do you want to have�?	Too little or too much?  Believe it or not, they can both be a serious problem.<br />This is just one of the many challenging concepts in Dr. Kiyosaki's first of a three book series about taking good lessons from the rich and giving them to the poor (i.e. yourself).<br />Why take advice from him?  Well, he has a lot of money.  And this book tells you the incredible story of the many lessons he had to learn from his best friend's 'rich' dad and his own 'poor' dad&quot; in order to change his belief system and ultimately become a 'rich' thinker.<br />Is this a get rich quick book..?  Nope.  Not even close.  I would describe it as a &quot;get rich by changing your ideas&quot; book.  And after reading it you will almost certainly have to go back and rethink everything you have ever been taught about money.  CAUTION READERS!!  There are some serious paradigm shifts ahead.  That's what I love most about this book.  Dr. Kiyosaki challenges the reader to redefine the foundations of personal finance.  (Is your house an asset or liability?  If you said it's an asset, you need to read this book to find out why you are wrong.)  I think what is also quite appealing about this book is that the author doesn't force his belief system upon the gentle reader... nor does he try to talk down to the reader or shame him for being so darn ignorant sometimes.  He simply says:  Here are the facts.  Here are the choices.  What do you want to do?<br />On a more personal note... most of my adult life I have been flat broke (or deep in debt)... and it wasn't until I read this book that I really understood why.  I had all the wrong ideas about what money is... and what it isn't.  Robert Kiyosaki completely changed my ideas about money.  I like that.  And I like this book.  Are you already a multi-millionaire?  Fine.  Forget about this book.  Otherwise, Buy it, Read it and then decide what kind of money problems you want to have, too little... or too much!	2000-12-20
US	46590065	R1BZHSUKLR11ZS	0446677469	275029842	Rich Dad's Guide to Investing: What the Rich Invest in, That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The next step in pursuing financial literacy	The third in a three book series with a common sense message. Want to get rich?  Then listen to people who actually have money.<br />Although, anyone could benefit from reading this book, Dr. Kiyosaki's guide is really meant for the serious investor.  He begins by defining what an investor really is and how he came to terms with some new ideas at a young age.  His best friend's 'rich' dad makes another appearance in this great book offering the reader even more sound advice on what it takes to become wealthy.  The message is one that may be hard for some to swallow, but the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.  Not because one is better or smarter than the other, but because they have different ideas about what money is... and about what it means to be an investor.  Write down your personal definition of 'investor' before you read this book, then go back and check it after you finish.  You will probably have a nice laugh at yourself over most of what you wrote down.  And that's what this book (and the other two) are all about...  Challenging your belief system and stretching out your brain to accept new ideas about money and wealth and freedom. If you have read the first two books, you still have much to learn.  Get this one and continue your quest for financial literacy.	2000-12-20
US	46590065	RAY1FGONDS1GN	0525934189	604964480	Atlas Shrugged: 35th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	21	30	N	N	A great love story that says &quot;what if...?&quot;	Well, I am one of those people who have to say... &quot;This book changed my life!&quot;  I actually came across it by accident a few years after some friends had told me about it.  Most of them would go on and on about how great it was and how I needed to read it.  Usually, I am turned off by that kind of talk.  If something is that popular, then I am 9 times out of 10 going to be bored to death with it.  I listened very nicely as they went on and on and a few months later forgot all about it.<br />So, fast forward a few years and one night I see a tattered, much read copy of Atlas Shrugged sitting on a shelf looking lonely.  I pick it up and after reading the first three pages... I knew it was going to change my life.  I read it practically non-stop over the next few weeks...  staying up all night and neglecting all sorts of things so I could just &quot;get through the next chapter&quot;.<br />You see, I had always believed that a person could be selfish and not hurt anyone around them.  In fact, I had always thought in a secret part of my mind that it was possible to behave in a self-interested way and actually help those around you.  I had carried this around with me for years always wondering what was wrong with me until I read Atlas Shrugged and learned that I was not so alone in my beliefs and perhaps I was not entirely wrong.<br />It opened my mind to so many new ideas and helped my to see all of my old ideas and beliefs more clearly.<br />I guess the most common criticism is that the book is not realistic.  I would agree, but I don't think it was intended to be realistic.  I think it was written as a model... an example of &quot;what if&quot; under many different scenarios.  Ayn Rand had a very well thought out philosophy.  She wanted to deliver her beliefs to the masses.  So, she made a choice...  Either pump out another boring college style philosophy book in the manner of Kant of Marx god forbid some long-winded economist...  and sell a few dozen copies to fill the libraries and dollar book bins, or write a passionate love story and try to weave objectivism throughout it pages.  It is melodramatic and sometimes downright ridiculous, but it is that way for a reason...  to make a point.  It is written in that extreme manner to set an example.  Black versus white.  She is trying to make it easy to understand by filtering everything down to a fundamental level.<br />Does she leave out certain things...?  Yes.  Psychology, for one.  But she never claims to have been a psychologist.<br />She leaves out other things too, but this book was not meant to be an accurate description of the world that exists around us.  It is meant to teach a lesson of what would happen if...  If the motor of the world were stopped.  It is meant to remind us that we take many things in our lives for granted... technology, advances in medicine and nutrition.  We live lives that are free and easy compared to our relatives only a century ago, yet how many of us stop and thank Henry Ford, or Dale Carnegie, or J.P. Morgan.  Few.  We instead find all of the faults that they had and write books and demonize them for having too much money or too much power or whatever.  I ask the reader... What if there were no cars, or no oil or no banking system...?  What would our lives be like today?  What if there were no Bill Gates?  You would not be reading these words.  The internet, computers...  would not exist exactly as they do today.  Love them or hate them, the &quot;prime movers&quot; of the world have done much good and we live easier lives because they keep the motor running.  Always running.to fill the libraries and dollar book bins, or write a passionate love story and try to weave objectivism throughout it pages.  It is melodramatic and sometimes downright ridiculous, but it is that way for a reason...  to make a point.  It is written in that extreme manner to set an example.  Black versus white.  She is trying to make it easy to understand by filtering everything down to a fundamental level.<br />Does she leave out certain things...?  Yes.  Psychology, for one.  But she never claims to have been a psychologist.<br />She leaves out other things too, but this book was not meant to be an accurate description of the world that exists around us.  It is meant to teach a lesson of what would happen if...  If the motor of the world were stopped.  It is meant to remind us that we take many things in our lives for granted... technology, advances in medicine and nutrition.  We live lives that are free and easy compared to our relatives only a century ago, yet how many of us stop and thank Henry Ford, or Dale Carnegie, or J.P. Morgan.  Few.  We instead find all of the faults that they had and write books and demonize them for having too much money or too much power or whatever.  I ask the reader... What if there were no cars, or no oil or no banking system...?  What would our lives be like today?  What if there were no Bill Gates?  You would not be reading these words.  The internet, computers...  would not exist exactly as they do today.  Love them or hate them, the &quot;prime movers&quot; of the world have done much good and we live easier lives because they keep the motor running.  Always running.	2000-12-14
US	46590065	R2D2D2X95HSXQS	0684829215	15928712	The Homebrewers' Recipe Guide: More than 175 original beer recipes including magnificent pale ales, ambers, stouts, lagers, and seasonal brews, plus tips from the master brewers	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Get this book, it's worth twice the asking price.	Anyone can put together a list of recipes for all the classicstyles of beer, throw a cover on it and hawk it for ... ... or put up a web site and collect a thousand different ways to combine malt and hops...  recipes are easy to come by.  But this book is more than just a collection of formulas.<br />I give it a wholehearted five stars because the authors fill the pages with their passion for brewing great beer.  The pages are a combination of anecodtes, brew tips and best of all quotations from all the greats of literature... Shakespeare to Orwell, they all had something to say about beer.  I never tire of flipping through the pages when I am getting ready to make the next batch, and laughing at the wit and wisdom found within.  I'll say it again.  Get this book, it's worth twice the asking price.	2000-12-14
US	46590065	RDO1QG48WE792	0380763664	462213885	The New Complete Joy of Home Brewing	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Get this book and start brewing!	I got this book as part of a homebrewing kit a year ago.  It is probably the best beginners book out there for brewing beer at home.  From the step by step instructions for making your very first brew to the many recipes for different beer styles and even a chapter on growing your own hops.  This is the A-Z homebrew bible.<br />The theme: &quot;Relax, Don't Worry, Have a Hombrew!&quot;<br />...and that is the essence of this book.  The experienced brewer knows that homebrewing involves strict attention to detail, especially in the area of sanitation, and it can be easy to forget as you go through the process again and again that the _real_ purpose of brewing is to have fun.  It's a scientific process, but the bottom line is to enjoy the experience from beginning to end and that is what this book is all about.<br />For those who have always wanted to try homebrewing, but thought it would be too difficult or too expensive or too whatever... Get this book and start brewing.  You'll be glad you did!	2000-12-14
US	46590065	R1ZVASYBDZDL3B	0882669052	960300912	Dave Miller's Homebrewing Guide: Everything You Need to Know to Make Great-Tasting Beer	Books	3	17	19	N	N	Very informative, but not always easy to read.	I liked this book very much and learned a lot from it, but I think it could use some editing and revision.  The book seems to hop from one thing to the next with no clear structure and even repeats itself a few times.  It also lacks all of the great illustrations that good brew books are usually filled with.  Granted, this is not really a beginners brew book, but nonetheless, I wish it had been edited more clearly.  However, I will not criticize the information that dave offers the homebrewer.  He is certainly an expert and gives the reader much detail in each aspect of brewing.  This is a great book for the partial mash or extract brewer out there who wants to move into all grain brewing...  or if you're the kind of guy that needs to add another brew book to your shelves, go ahead and get this one.  You'll learn a thing or two no matter how long you've been brewing.	2000-12-14
US	46590065	R14JSMVVXRKYTD	034540727X	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A brilliant work, the best civil war novel I have ever read.	Even if you are not a Civil War buff, forget about it! This book will touch your heart and sometimes amaze you.  Friends and collegues fighting against one another, killing one another as they stand behind their strongest convinctions.  The author reveals this story primarily from the point of view of the officers on both sides as they ponder the circumstances and consider what they must sacrifice in order to win. The story is the battle of Gettysburg, three bloody days in July 1863 told through the eyes and hearts of the men who stood across the battlefield from one another and witnessed the bloodiest battle in American History.  (More American's died on the fields of Gettysburg in three days than during the entire Vietnam war)  For me, it's a difficult thing to consider Americans killing Americans for what they believe in.  Of course, in the modern era Americans are still shooting at each other, but usually it's of a criminal nature.  Back then, it was to defend values and character.  This book opens up a world that has been long forgotten.  It is a brilliant work that has given me a fine appreciation of what it means to die for what you believe in.  Even if you hate the civil war, you should give this book a try.  It is enjoyable on many levels.	2000-12-13
US	46590065	R3HC1RK980PE68	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	6	8	N	N	She writes with a style that is utterly unique...	E.Anne Proulx (no, I don't know how to pronounce it) has written a fine story, even interesting at times, but it is her style that makes this a great book. The Story is set in the modern era in New York and mostly Newfoundland and revolves around a hard luck character named Quoyle which is a word meaning &quot;coil of rope&quot;.  There are a lot of nautical terms used in this book, and they almost always are entirely appropriate and interesting.  Anyway, Quoyle is a sad character who was neglected as a child, abused by his peers and rejected by his wife. He finally leaves his old life to start anew. More tragedy results, but he is a survivor.  In the end, he reaches a point where one might almost think he has made a success of himself. This novel was fun to read, full of surprises and provided lots of interesting, nasty little characters... that are written with honesty and frankness.  I learned a lot about life in a nautical community and how strange and pathetic it can be.	2000-12-13
US	46590065	RG13CFR0D2ZAE	0812567102	12564777	The Age of Innocence (Tor Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A sublime love story, but don't expect a smootchy ending	The story is set in the 1870's in Manhattan.  Newland Archer is young, wealthy, good-looking and ranks quite high in society.  He is to be married to his &quot;perfect&quot; society counterpart May Welland.  Right before their engagement Newland is introduced to May's cousin the Countess Olenska who has just returned from a disappointing marriage in Europe.  She has a somewhat scandalous past (at least as far as society is considered) and Newland is  attracted to her almost immediately.  What develops is a tragic yet beautiful conflict within Newland that strains him to the utmost limit of his character.  He puruses the Countess while making wedding plans with May.  I won't ruin it for you by telling you who he gets in the end, but don't expect a flowery, kissy, smootchy ending. Instead,  Edith Wharton goes to great lengths to describe the reality behind the facade of this society and she does so with astonishing clarity and frankness.  This is one of my all time favorite books and will be for some time to come I can be sure. Every time I read it I see the story unfold on a whole new level. SIDE NOTE: See the movie!  Usually, any movie version will pale in comparsion, especially in comparision to the book, but this is an exceptional exception! Martin Scorcese unfolds the tale with incredible attention to detail and provides the moviegoer with a unique experience... A movie that actually is as good (if not better) than the book.  BTW, Edith Wharton was the first woman to win the Pulitzer Prize for letters. She did so with this book in 1921.	2000-12-13
US	46590065	R12A18T5CXQIGY	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The life story of a woman... enjoyed by a man	I have no intention of being sexist when I say this, but this is a woman's book.  Simply put, it tells the complete life story of a woman entirely from a woman's point of view.  However basic I have made it sound, I do want to impress upon you that I was taken by its style nonetheless.  It changes and matures with the main character until in the end as Daisy is growing senile, the writing becomes obscure.  Her death is told in an 'obituary' format of sorts.  I loved this idea.  Even though I am not a woman, it helped me get into the character's head and 'live' her life just as she experienced it.  Good writing.  Worth a Pulitzer prize..?  What else was written that year?  I'll have to check.	2000-12-13
US	46590065	R2T6DQO3SB4X8G	0060956690	141256646	So Big (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	67	74	N	N	Single motherhood at the turn of the last century	An interesting story of a woman's life and her struggle to raise her only son and teach him what is valuable in life.  The Story is set in the late 1800 and early 1900's in rural and urban Chicago.  The author called it &quot;a book about cabbages...&quot; but really, it's a story about Selina DeJong, orphaned as a young, wealthy child, who struggles to make a life for herself and her only child Dirk whom she has nicknamed &quot;sobig&quot;.  She marries a dolt for a husband and begins to work on a farm.  Her husband is a small man with a small brain and is afraid of his own shadow which limits and frustrates Selina and keeps her from accomplishing anything for many years.  Fortunately, her husband suffers an accidental death and she is fianlly able to make some necessary improvements which allow her son (who otherwise would have been a cabbage farmer his whole life) to attend college in the city.  He succeeds in college, but when he gets out he sacrifices his dream profession(architecture) to make a lot of money doing something boring in finance, and in doing so, he misses the point his mother tried to teach him about success.  (i.e. that money doesn't equal it.)  This is a really good book with a wonderful and inspiring ending.  If the whole book had been as good as the last couple chapters, I would have given it five stars easily.  Although &quot;So Big&quot; isn't a famous book, Edna Ferber made it big with most of her others... You may have heard of a couple of them... &quot;Giant&quot; from which the Rock Hudson, James Dean film was made, and &quot;Showboat&quot;, which was made into a sprawling musical. (My head aches just to think about it).	2000-12-13
US	46590065	R1KXVNTG7T7C4W	0679781277	682628461	Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer	Books	4	6	6	N	N	What it means to be a visionary...	A delightful novel about a visionary set in a time when capitalism was at its best. The Story is set in the late nineteenth century in New York City, Martin Dressler is the son of a humble, hard-working cigar shop owner.  He assists his father in the daily routine until he is offered a job in a local hotel as a bellboy.  Over the years, he advances until he saves enough money to open a restaurant.  It is successful and he continues to open more and more with the same formula.  Eventually, he returns to his former workplace which has fallen into decay and is about to go bankrupt.  He buys it and returns it to its former glory... and this is where the novel gets interesting...  Martin has a vision of building a new kind of  hotel that is completely unlike any other.... And this is where the novel comes alive.  It concludes, some would say, tragically, but that depends largely on your view of what the definition of success is... or isn't. I loved this book for two reasons.  First, it is just plain good writing.  Second, it tells the story of the American Dream, but more than that... of what it is to be an American Dreamer.  It captures the essence of what it means to live with a vision that nobody else can understand and how a visionary will do anything necessary to realize their vision.  My kind of stuff.	2000-12-13
US	46590065	R1WKLELQO01KPL	0684818981	378927219	To Have and Have Not	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A man can be destroyed, but not defeated...	Hemingway once said &quot;A man can be destroyed, but not defeated... a man can be defeated, but not destroyed&quot;<br />To Have and Have not is primarily a story about the destruction of a man... one of the 'have nots' (the conchs) of Key West.  The central character, Harry Morgan, constantly struggles throughout the book defying the law, even killing those who stand in his way just trying to make a living.  Hemingway peels back the skin of this entire society and shows the reader what lies beneath. This is the classic Hemingway tale of the central character encountering malevolent circumstances and fighting them one by one to the bitter end.  I love this book!  I wish the movie version had actually been about this book, instead of what it turned out to be.  A &quot;Howard Hawks&quot; film with an &quot;Ernest Hemingway&quot; title.<br />Maybe the critics don't consider this to be his finest novel... but I've read most of his work now and I think its the best one in the bunch.	2000-12-13
US	46590065	R10IQXN9ALCUJB	0684801450	673130510	Death in the Afternoon	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A death will occur this afternoon, will it be man or animal?	Even Hemingway was wary of bullfighting when was first introduced to it by Gertrude Stein in the early part of the 20th century.  He tells of his suspicion in the first pages of this book and invites the reader to join him in his exploration of this old Spanish tradition.  I have enver been to a bullfight, but after reading Death in the afternoon, I am curious to see at least one now and feel that I will have a better than average understanding of what is happening in the ring.  While it may be somewhat outdated, as the book describes many of the matadors that existed at the time of writing... there is enough real description of the ceremony and the outcome of many matches that it makes no difference.<br />The theme is interesting and as with most hemingway books is found in a title with more than one meaning.<br />A&quot; death will occur this afternoon, will it be man or animal?&quot;<br />That is the question to be answered with each and every bullfight.  That is the reason millions of people attend every year.  That is the reason Hemingway became and aficianado of the sport.  Read this book and fund out what bullfighting is really all about.  No sugar coating here.	2000-12-12
US	46590065	R3B1FS9Z8PYX0K	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The ulimate &quot;anti-compromise&quot; novel	&quot;Man's ego is the fountainhead of all progress&quot;...  the quote from which the title comes from.  The Fountainhead is such an incredible example of what man (and woman) should strive to become.  It is the ultimate &quot;anti-compromise&quot; novel ever written.  The theme is simple.  All of human progress is the result of someone using their abilities to go against the established way of doing things and create something new and better for all to enjoy.  The book is not meant to be an accurate description of life as we know it, but rather an example of the type of people that create the future and those who act to stop progress.  As with all of Rand's work, this book is a series of &quot;what if&quot; scenarios that play out in a melodramatic manner to make a point about both sides of human nature.  I have read it four times now and everytime I open its pages, I am inspired to become the best person that I can be.  I recommened it to anyone who wants to better themselves.<br />For those who claim the book is not realistic or not truthful... There is a famous saying that all truths go through three stages, first they are scoffed at, second they are violently rejected and third they are accepted as if they has always been true.  (Copernicus and his heliocentric model experienced these stages in attempting to change the status quo...)  Ayn Rand's work is experiencing stage two right now, but in time i think it will be understood and not seem so threatening as it does to some today.	2000-12-12
