US	46631066	R1MMLJ593QTE31	0743457811	475431656	Pretty Woman	Books	4	1	4	N	N	I was thoroughly enjoying this...	But in order to review and critique it one has to be able to discuss the ending and it is not fair to potential readers of the book.  One other reviewer already gave a big part away about the ending, and I hate when that happens!<br /><br />Suffice it to say it is a very fun read - I thought it was pretty entertaining up until the watermelon fight, which seemed a bit silly and unrealistic, and by the way, how can so many people hate watermelon?!  I don't even know one person who doesn't like it, especially dieters.  Everyone knows melons are a big help in a weight loss diet.  They fill you up not out.  I can see where some readers would take issue with the authors calling a size 14 and 16 \\"fat\\" - but I think it is amazing that readers can get so bent out of shape by that and take it so personally - remember it is a FICTION NOVEL - written for entertainment - 9 rolls of blubber on ones body does describe adequately an incentive to lose weight.<br /><br />I loved the characters, all of them, even the leechy husband she booted out on the night she won the lottery, his character was one you loved to hate.  Everyone of us needs someone like Luna Mae to keep us in line, she was hysterical.  I agree that it would have made a better story to develop some of the other characters, such as Curly, Luna Mae's colorful boyfriend who only shows up late in the book. Us readers wanted to know him better, but the dog, and the senior citizens helping out with the \\"weeds\\" business all added fun to the story. I enjoyed cheering Rosie on towards her goals. Don't let the negative comments here keep you from reading this delightful story by an author who knows what women like.	2005-08-12
US	46631066	R39C1Q7FYSJ9K1	0451210557	468712802	No Second Chance	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Page Turner, but implausible ending	I am on a marathon of Coben's book - I like the ride, his books are hard to put down, they get you caught up quickly.  I think this one and Just One Look have one thing in common.  They have a lot of bad things happening, including the violence, for not \\"enough of a believable reason\\" if you may.  In other words, the means doesn't justify the end.  But that is fiction, and he is good at it.  You don't know this until the end however, and getting there is mesmerizing, so if you like the ride, then this is for you. There's lots going on and it is not boring.<br /><br />I will still keep reading him.  I have liked Tell No One so far the best.	2005-07-12
US	46631066	R1RI6MI4932OOU	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Better than "The Innocent" - Tell No One - by Harlan Coben	Dr. David Beck will never forget the night his wife was killed and he was left for dead.  Still grieving for her 8 years later, he receives an email that could only come from her - secret code words only they knew, then an email with a web-cam picture of her, asking him to meet her and \\"tell no one.\\"  Is this for real?  Is his grief making him crazy?  Is she still alive?  He must find out - at any cost, and so begins the ride.  It picks up speed after a few chapters, a thriller you will find hard to put down!<br /><br />My first Coben book was his newest The Innocent, which I enjoyed very much and went looking for others by him.  If this is any example of his talent I will be reading more by him.  Highly recommended for suspense and fast-paced reading.	2005-06-04
US	46631066	R29L62DS54TXAJ	1400061601	903036312	The Year of Pleasures: A Novel	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Elizabeth Berg - a weaver of words!	Opening a book by Elizabeth Berg is like unwrapping a piece of chocolate and wondering what the filling will taste like - always a treat for me!  I know there will be unexpected morsels to savor - she is so delightful at putting those words together.  There are always a few tears, but many chuckles too.  She writes \\"like women think\\" sometimes in more than one direction at at time.<br /><br />This one tackles \\"grieving and moving on\\" as the main character Betta, is forced to face widow-hood when she is not at all ready, even 'though she knew it was coming.  She is in her mid-fifties, with no children (not by choice but by fate). She and her husband had planned to move to a small town somewhere when he retired, but once he learned he had terminal cancer he makes her promise to go ahead with their plans on her own and open that little shop she always talked about.  We the readers share her struggle to uproot herself, settle in a new place, make new friends (and  search for old ones) and start her dream business - a delightful shop just for women called \\"WHAT A WOMEN WANTS.\\" One can just visualize it. I'd love to go there myself, browse, buy, eat and drink there. It sounded just like the place we women would all love to visit frequently.<br /><br />I personally enjoyed accompanying her in her discovery of self, 'though at times she made me want to shake her! We all grieve in different ways.<br /><br />My favorite character was the Brazilian guy, Jovani, with his broken English, and how he treated Betta with respect, patience and affection.  His backward sentences and definite foreign accent was so real, if you have ever heard people speak like this you will know what I mean. He gave me many smiles throughout the book, especially when he created the sign for Betta's new business, that was a riot.<br /><br />It was a short book, just over 200 pages and ends much too soon.  I wanted more.	2005-05-26
US	46631066	R282N9PPEMX98U	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great Book - but read it fast!	Best enjoyed if read in a couple of days.  Don't start it if you will have a lot of interruptions.  The long cast of characters, plot twists and sub-plots make it necessary for the reader to follow closely to enjoy the journey.<br /><br />The prologue draws the reader in quickly, introducing us to the main character, Matt Hunter - a decent upstanding college student with a bright future ahead of him.  One fateful night changes all that.  He and his best buddy attend a college party where a senseless incident incites a drunken brawl and Matt finds himself in the midst of it coming to the defense of his buddy, and in the process causing the accidental death of another student.  Just like that, his future is forever altered as he is convicted of manslaughter and sent to prison.  Fast forward to the present - 9 years later he is out of prison, happily married and buying his first home when a strange cell phone message alters his life once again, and so the ride begins.<br /><br />If you like fast paced thrillers, you won't be disappointed in The Innocent.  I read it in two days and agree with a couple of other reviewers that the plot is rather \\"convoluted\\" - there is a lot going on here, but that is what makes it so interesting.  This is my first Coben book and I have already ordered more.  I like his style of writing.  He doesn't need the \\"F\\" word in every sentence to make his point, or long, drawn out details.  It's just a great fiction novel, my favorite kind.<br /><br />Unlike a couple of other reviewers, I even liked the ending.  Coben ties up all the loose ends and leaves the reader with a satisfactory conclusion to it all.  I hate to be left wondering about some things.  I want a real ending to a novel!<br /><br />Buy it, you will like it!	2005-05-16
US	46631066	R28OYB0CJHVV7G	1400061598	575215393	The Art of Mending	Books	3	6	6	N	N	If You Haven't Read Her Before....	Don't start Elizabeth Berg with this one... she has done much better.  The writing keeps you interested, but this one needed more character development.  We know that Caroline feels she has been picked on all her life and yet her siblings thought of her as a whiner and didn't remember Caroline being treated particularly bad.  The reader is always wondering what is really true, Caroline's recollections, or her siblings. We needed to know more about the mother, why (or if) she treated Caroline so mean, and what made her tick.<br />At one point the mother begins to give us some insight about herself, and starts to explain to her daughters how she felt after losing a child before Caroline was born, which may have affected her treatment of Caroline, but the story line doesn't continue this to a satisfactory conclusion.<br /><br />Berg is usually so good about getting the reader connected that we feel disappointed to be left out. The ending was strange  and apparently other of her diligent readers agree.  I think she is an exceptional writer, and for that reason can't give her less than a 3 star on anything - which isn't bad.  I hope she reads reviews and listens to her fans.  I will still be looking forward to reading her next book.	2005-04-25
US	46631066	RE3RFWFIL50S1	0778321460	152269557	The Bay at Midnight	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Diane Doesn't Disappoint!	She is SUCH a good writer!  I can't wait to see what she is coming up with next.  Every book is different - and every one just has these unexpected twists and turns that keep you reading longer than you intended to.... like when you need sleep.<br /><br />The characters in this one are just wonderful.  My favorite was Maria - the grandmother, 'though most of the story is told by one of her daughters, Julie, a writer of mystery novels, who was 12 when her sister dies and feels responsible for her part in her sisters death.<br /><br />The story goes from present day back and forth to 1962 where Maria's loses her daughter Izzy in a tragedy at the age of 17 at Bay Head Shores, in New Jersey - the family summer site. The story revolves around two families that lived next door to each other and spent their summers together at the Bay.<br /><br />Now, over 40 years have passed and an apparent note left by a dying man (who was the victims boyfriend when she died) indicates that a man prosecuted for murdering Izzy may have been innocent and so the case is reopened, and so are all the memories and scars of that fateful night that the tragedy occured for everyone at the Bay, and how it affected all their lives.<br /><br />There are a few other stories going on here, be prepared to stay up late. Diane flawlessly crafts her characters so you won't easily forget them once you've finished this. I read this in two days, I wanted to savor it a bit longer, but just could not put it down, like many others of her novels.  Loved it and highly recommend it.	2005-04-25
US	46631066	R8P99FQSM4K3U	0743234707	647042226	Blood Memory: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Greg Iles always writes a good book	I've read them all - and this is no exception.  He usually gets a 4 or 5 star rating from me.  I think this particular book will appeal more to women than to men however. My husband (also the author's fan) gave it up after 15 chapters because it was too slow for him and because it was written from the perspective of an emotional female, which is not his reading preference.  Not just an emotional female, a pregnant, bipolar, alcoholic female.  She is Cat Ferry, a forensic odontologist, (specialist in teeth/bite-marks) brought in by the New Orleans Police Dept to help solve a crime.  A serial killer is targeting older men leaving bite-marks on various parts of their bodies.<br /><br />The novel, has two story lines, the solving of the crimes against these men, and the story of Cat Ferry, who is being chased by demons of her own.  She is having an affair with a married detective on the case, and having flashbacks of repressed memories.  It centers around sexual child abuse, so if this is a subject that you are up to the ying-yang about, as many people today are, then this may not be the book for you.  I thought it was researched well, written very well, and the characters crafted so well that the reader continues to think about them long after the novel is finished. I love his writing and he continues to be one of my favorites.<br /><br />Although it lacks the fast pace of some of his previous novels this does pick up in the second half and is brought to a satisfactory conclusion insofar as the main character's story is concerned which was the better part of the book.<br /><br />As far as the solving of the crime part of the story, it left some unanswered questions about the arrest and prosecution for the crime.  I find that to be quite popular with authors today where they leave a bit to the imagination at the end instead of tying up the loose ends.  You, dear reader, will have to read the book to find out what I mean.	2005-04-25
US	46631066	RLNSY6YJSIBM5	0743454545	573739483	Vanishing Acts (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A controversial modern-day topic.....	...is what Jodi does best.  This one gives the reader a lot to ponder about the pros and cons in our justice system, and what is really the right or the wrong thing to do.<br /><br />In this case, a father is prosecuted for the abduction of his own daughter, Delia, 28 years prior, of which she is unaware until the arrest.  She was only 4 years old at the time, a product of divorce.  He got them new identities, devoted his entire life to her care, never remarrying, a perfect father in every way, earning the respect of all who knew him and his own daughters unrequited devotion.  Now Delia learns that he has lied to her all her life, telling her that the mother she yearned for was dead.<br /><br />As an adult and a mother of a young girl herself, Delia experiences a gamut of emotions, and finds herself at the heart of a controversial trial in Arizona, where the abduction originally took place.  The reader is drawn into the emotions of this woman, as she finally comes face to face with her mother and the story of her early childhood, which has a few surprises of its own.<br /><br />The jail scenes, prison violence, and the recipe for methamphetamines will cause distaste in some readers, but that is to be expected.  The Hopi Indian culture and spiritual rituals caused a couple of yawns I noticed in the reviews, but I enjoyed the character of Ruthann, the Indian, and her creative \\"Barbie dolls\\" - she added some smiles to an otherwise serious story line.  Although this book lacks the riveting intensity of \\"My Sister's Keeper\\" it is still a good book.  My signed copy has its place on my bookshelf.  I definitely recommend it.	2005-04-16
US	46631066	R2SORR01DHSP86	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	Wonderfully written -  I didn't expect to like it so much.	I would not normally pick up this type of book, but it was our selection for book club, so I did.  It hooked me immediately and I had a hard time putting it down.  What sounded like a dreary subject (the plague) was so well written that I think it makes it on my \\"all time favorites\\" list.<br /><br />This is a fictionalized true story of the plague overtaking a small village in the 1600's.  It was brought in on a piece of cloth by a tailor in the town.  The townspeople, mostly the younger ones,  start dying a horrible death.  Most villagers evacuate, but a few diligent souls stay, quarantining themselves and rendering to the sick.<br /><br />It was interesting to read about what they had to use in the way of medicine back then, the herbs and poultices they made, and the botanical background of the plants available to them - the writing was so good as the reader gets educated about these things and it is never boring.  You are in awe of what these people had to go through at the time.<br /><br />The personal stories of the characters were also wonderfully crafted and the reader is drawn in very quickly. Sub-plots, drama and emotion prevail to a satisfying conclusion. We had a wonderful discussion about it in our Readers Group.  It prompted me to pick up her autobiography as well, which gives you an insight into the author's background, but it was not nearly as good a book as this novel and why that year was considered  a Year of Wonders.  Read it - you won't be sorry!	2005-04-09
US	46631066	R3O8MOVBF8MOX0	081297106X	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	2	10	25	N	N	Be Aware, Fiction Readers, this is NOT a Novel!	If you are a fan of quality fiction, where the author draws you in with prose, compelling plots and characters that have you feeling you know them, (and their joy or pain) then you probably won't like this book!  It is more like a text or reference book, than it is a story of women bonding, or women that you get to intricately know and care about.<br /><br />This writer sounds like what she is, a teacher, and that is how it is written. The lines and quotes from literature in relation to the plight of the women do parralel, and true, the book  makes some profound statements, and instills sympathy for the repressed women, but this is something we already know about, what with our own soldiers over there fighting to help them live better lives.<br /><br />I did not find this an enjoyable read and had trouble picking it up each time I had to, reading this for my Readers Group discussion.	2005-04-08
US	46631066	R1HVL9LFYKYPTF	1400063043	772777117	A Redbird Christmas: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This years best Christmas Novel (2004)	You must give this Christmas novel to those readers on your gift list!  Even the price and size is a perfect stocking stuffer.  A delightful, endearing story of life, love, and a Christmas miracle in a small Alabama town.  The recipes in the back are an added plus!<br /><br />Oswald T. Campbell, (named after a can of Campbell's tomato soup which was left with this infant at an orphanage's doorstep) is now a 52 yr old man with emphysema and may not live through another Christmas.  He is also a divorced, recovering alcoholic with not much to live for. Upon his doctors recommendation, he makes a move from cold Chicago to a warmer climate, a very small waterfront village called Lost River, Alabama.  A cast of wonderful characters, which include a crippled redbird named Jack, change his life forever.  Don't miss this heartwarming story, for people of all ages or faiths.  Thank you Fannie Flagg, keep 'em coming!  Merry Christmas, 2004!	2004-12-20
US	46631066	R1KXYXV6KXL7LL	0345467507	501733035	The Things We Do for Love	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Did not disappoint!	I have been reading quite a few of her books lately, and enjoyed this one as a fast engrossing read.  As usual Ms. Hannah lets you connect with her characters and you feel like you know them personally.  This Italian family with their cooking will get you hungry as well as involving you in their personal crises.  Enjoy!<br /><br />Also recommend for an unusual read - one of her older novels \\"Once in Every Life\\" about a reincarnation, that has humor and deep emotion as well. She has several good ones.	2004-09-12
US	46631066	R2F0VV7BXE1TIV	0743454529	354573823	My Sister's Keeper: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	One of the Best Books of the year!	Once you start this it will be hard to put down.  It grabs you right quick and doesn't let go.  The topic is timely, controversial, well researched and well written.  You will continue to think about the characters in this book long after the last page is read.<br /><br />It is about a family of five - a couple with 3 children, 2 teen girls and one boy.  One of the girls has a terminal illness and the book addresses how each person in the family is dealing with this crisis in their life, and how the choices that they individually make affect each other.<br /><br />Each chapter looks at one person's point of view.  The writing is emotional, yet humorous when it needs to be, and skillfully connects the reader with the characters in this controversial real-life subject.<br /><br />It sweeps you along to its shocking conclusion.  Don't miss this one!	2004-08-10
US	46631066	R39XAINC4SPJ59	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The writing was the best part of this book!	...and makes reading this worthwhile.  I got pulled into reading this book because a member of our book club just had to discuss it with someone.  Then the rest of our book club read it too and we had a great discussion..... the ending especially needs to be discussed, because you just don't see it coming.<br />The story line is odd, which is not bad, but unusual.  Young Pi (short for Patel) grew up alongside wild animals as his father was a zoo-keeper in India.  The first part of the book gives you a lot of detail about animals (zoology) and their natural characteristics and instincts, setting you up for the main part of the story.  You may be tempted to skim through this part, but you may miss out on some humor about Pi, his curiosity, beliefs, and the kind of young and likeable person he is.  You will find yourself chuckling out loud at times at some of his thoughts, and marvel at how he embraces religion and faith, whether it be through Hinduism, Christianity or Islam, makes no difference to him, he believes in God Almighty.<br />Pi is 16 yrs of age when he and his family set sail for Canada to begin a new life, taking along a few animals from his fathers zoo. Trouble at sea takes the lives of all on board but Pi and 4 animals, one a 460 pound Bengal tiger named Richard Parker.  After the demise of 3 animals, it is Pi and Richard Parker who must survive aboard a 26 foot raft for 227 days at sea.  This is the main part of the book, and it will amaze you at what man or animal can do to survive.<br />Yann Martel is a gifted storyteller.  His humor, sensitivity and originality shows through each chapter of this unusual book.  A great book club selection.	2004-07-05
US	46631066	RX8AB5NDWZ9QQ	0743454146	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	5	5	6	N	N	What else can you ask for in a book? This one has it all.	Suspense, action, politics, religion, philosophy, even a bit of romance.  Very well done, Greg.  A techno-thriller and page turner that grabs you right at the beginning.  It lags just one little bit in the first quarter of the book but then picks up speed and is a hard one to put down.  I am amazed at the authors versatility in his writing.  I have read every one of his books and they are all different, with one exception - they all keep you turning those pages.<br />The author makes a statement at the end of the book that may help the reader before he starts the book: \\"Writing about science and philosophy in a commercial novel is problematic.  Write about them at their natural level and you leave the masses behind.  Simplify too much, and you offend those individuals conversant in those subjects.  I trust you will enter this book as an exercise of the mind and not judge too harshly either way. If we have learned anything in the past ten thousand years, it is that nothing is certain.\\"<br />Greg Iles writes a riveting yet believable story about artificial intelligence and a Super Computer developed by the greatest minds in science, a team of nobel-prize winning scientists.  Known as &quot;Trinity&quot; the super computer is a merger of man (his mind) and machine, and what can be done with it.  The possibilities are fascinating and frightening.  Yet the story line explores religion, conscience, military strategies, philosophy and much more.- the reader is cognizant that this is a conceivable achievement in the light of today's advances in technology.<br />I can see why Dan Brown (author of DaVinci Code) liked this book.  It is written in the same fast-paced way and with a lot of factual research and information.  It takes you through some of our actual military bases and research sites, and references actual events that have happened in our history with nuclear development.  The novel takes the reader to Israel as well, where I found that part of the book fascinating as the main character searched for answers in the life of Jesus and His resurrection. I disagree with the reviewer, (\\"booklover 10) that didn't recommend this - it may be Iles best work to date.  It gives you a lot to think about, yet it entertains you - like I said at the start - what more can you ask for in a book?ing as the main character searched for answers in the life of Jesus and His resurrection. I disagree with the reviewer, (\\"booklover 10) that didn't recommend this - it may be Iles best work to date.  It gives you a lot to think about, yet it entertains you - like I said at the start - what more can you ask for in a book?	2004-07-03
US	46631066	R5JQ99M7U0UYN	0743224639	286181559	Goodbye, Earl: A Bad Girl Creek Novel (Bad Girl Creek Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A good series comes to an end....	The first of this trilogy by Jo-Ann Mapson was &quot;Bad Girl Creek&quot;, which, in my opinion, is the best of the 3 books. I hated for it to end. It grabbed your attention right away and held it.  The reader eagerly anticipated book 2 - &quot;Along Came Mary&quot;, while 'though entertaining, just didn't have the same punch as the first one.  Other members of my book club agreed, as we read it together.  This third and last book starts in Alaska, where a former &quot;bad girl&quot; Beryl has to deal with her relationship with Earl and his disappearance.  The first 50 pages are slow, but it gets better after that.  The most delightful part of the book was the budding little &quot;Sally&quot; the child that was born to Phoebe in the 2nd book. Her fiesty-ness is fun to read about, as is Phoebe's role as her invalid mother.  The relationship that Phoebe develops with Andrew went along interestingly enough, but the reader wants to know him better, we wanted more .... more dialogue, more depth.<br />Beryl's detachment from the girls at Bad Girl Creek is frustrating for the reader that found her so bonded to them in the other books. We got more insight into Beryl's background in this book.<br />I love JoAnn Mapson's writing, especially &quot;Bad Girl Creek&quot; and &quot;The Wilder Sisters&quot;.  I hope she gives us more of her books in the future, but I expected a little more out of this one.	2004-03-02
US	46631066	RLHOQWAEHOA4	0553802240	670999630	The Secret Hour	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A very good book by Luanne	Different from her other works.  I almost couldn't believe it was her writing this suspense.  It reminded me somewhat of Greg Iles &quot;The Quiet Game&quot;, also a story of a widower father who is an attorney and getting involved in a case in his home town that affects him personally.<br />In this story, the attorney, John O'Rourke, is a widower with 2 kids, a teen son and a daughter.  He is trying his best to raise them in his home town where everyone knows them, but is making enemies by taking on a horrible case.  He is representing an admitted serial killer of young women and the town hates him for it. Along comes a lovely woman who believes this serial killer may be the cause for her sisters disappearance 6 months prior in this area. John is torn between wanting to help the woman, whom he is attracted to, and doing his best for his client. The story takes many twists and turns and is written very well.  You feel connected to these characters and think about them even when you are not reading... that's the sign of a well written novel.<br />Luanne writes in the same New England setting that she has used in her other books. Her characters, even the pets, have captivating personalities, and the discriptive locale always makes you want to go there.  Another great book by Ms. Rice... do some more like this, Luanne.	2003-07-17
US	46631066	R28SSJ3THI2RGK	0375430881	939348220	Nights in Rodanthe (Random House Large Print)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Loved this!	Another touching story from the Master of Love and Tragedy.<br /><br />As the story begins, Adrienne Willis is 60, the divorced mother of three grown children. To help her troubled daughter cope with the untimely recent death of her husband, Adrienne decides to tell her grown daughter an intimate story of her own love affair, which took place 15 years before.<br /><br />The story of this love affair begins many years after Adrienne is left by her own husband (her daughters father) for a younger woman.  Even 'though many years have gone by, Adrienne still lacks confidence and is introverted and unhappy. Her depression about this encouraged her to get away for a weekend to \\"house-sit\\" for a close friend of hers who owns a Bed and Breakfast in Rodanthe, North Carolina and needed someone to \\"mind the store\\" while she is away.  Rodanthe is a small coastal town where she feels she can seek a bit of respite from her problems while she minds the Inn. The only guest scheduled to arrive this stormy weekend is Paul Flanner, a doctor who has sold his thriving medical practice and come to Rodanthe to deal with a former patients spouse, who blames him for his wifes death. As Paul arrives, a big storm is right behind him, and expected to get fierce over the weekend, so the two of them work together to ready the old house and in the process get acquainted.<br />With just the two of them together during the stormy weekend, Adrienne surprises herself and finds it easy to open up to Paul, and he with her. They both feel a connection from the onset. Two wounded people turn to each other for comfort and in one weekend, set in motion feelings that will resonate throughout the rest of their lives.<br /><br />Despite their short courtship, the two find themselves falling passionately in love and vow to spend their lives together. Before that can happen, Paul needs to make amends with the son he has long neglected and so embarks on an ill-fated trip to Ecuador, which leads to unexpected and untimely events that alter Adrienne's life permanently.  A very moving tale of love and tragedy, in the all encompassing Sparks style.<br /><br />A fast engrossing read, it is a small book, so in two sittings I was done, and I would have liked more.r Adrienne's life permanently.  A very moving tale of love and tragedy, in the all encompassing Sparks style.     A fast engrossing read, it is a small book, so in two sittings I was done, and I would have liked more.	2003-07-17
US	46631066	R1NYKNL8XMHXAM	0821770209	116375560	About Face	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not her best, but  Michael fans will like it.	The story grabs your attention right away, which is good. I don't think anything by Fern Michaels is bad - many others have been better, however.<br /><br />The main character, Casey, is a young woman released from a mental institution after 10 years who cannot remember what happened to send her there.  She goes back to her home town to find out. With the help of the local doctor, Blake, who becomes her love interest as well, they start unraveling the horrible story of what took place in her young life. There are a lot of twists and turns here as well as shady characters to keep the reader interested.  The novel could have been absolutely captivating if it had been written just a little differently. The light-hearted bantering (dialogue) between 2 main characters took away from the seriousness of the situation. It didn't seem appropriate at times it was inserted in the story line.<br /><br />It is a disturbing story, how she was repeatedly raped as a child by a stepbrother, neglected by her mother, and the dark images that haunt her but that she can't identify.  She has been drugged heavily for the past 10 years in the institution, and she is afraid to take any medication, but agrees to regression therapy as a last resort to try to remember what supposedly drove her mad.<br /><br />It's hard not to care about Michael's characters.  The \\"Mommy, Dearest\\" of the main character was a little hard to believe, yet was lots of fun to hate. It's also a fast read and keeps you turning those pages, perfect for a day at the beach or at the airport.<br /><br />One thing that did surprise me about this Fern Michaels is that in the beginning of the book Casey has a daydream of home and family, complete with dog (Fern Michaels' novels aren't complete without a dog) but in the end one isn't mentioned.  A golden retriever sitting next to the bassinet of the newborn would have been more like the Michaels we know and love!	2003-06-30
US	46631066	R3TV8SOXUGETBK	0375422412	120680919	Three Junes	Books	2	14	21	N	N	Not bad for a first effort - but Award material????	This debut novel is divided into 3 parts:<br />June 1989 The Collies, Part 1<br />June 1995 Upright, Part 2<br />June 1999 Boys, Part 3<br /><br />The titles of the above mentioned parts are strange.  Only Part I was understandable to me. The others - I can't even imagine why.<br /><br />Part 1 introduces us to Paul, on a voyage to get over losing his wife Maureen, a kennel owner.  Neither of these people or the company Paul kept on his trip was extremely interesting or likeable.  Anyone who can drown puppies is not on my likeable list.  This part was the hardest to get through because it doesn't grab your interest right away. I probably wouldn't have finished the entire thing it if it wasn't our book clubs selection of the month.<br /><br />Part 2 introduces us to Paul's sons - Fenno, the homosexual, and his 2 twin brothers, David and Dennis.  Mal, Fenno's gay friend, dying of Aids, was witty and a bit interesting at times. The writing flits back and forth from past to present. One needs to pay attention to whether it is now or then, it is not always evident and often abrupt. One wonders if it's worthwhile sorting it all out.  One also wonders throughout this whole section whether Fenno agrees to donate sperm to impregnate his sister-in-law, but it is never clear until the last section.<br /><br />Part 3 - introduces us to yet another new character, Fern, pregnant by an absent lover, living with Tony, Fenno's former gay lover, with whom she had a brief affair, but who is not the father of her baby. This novel is supposed to be about a family in today's times, here and abroad, with a strong Scottish influence. I hoped for more. The only part that evoked any emotion from me is the part where they were burying the Mother and having to leave her casketed body out in the cold until the snow melted so ground could be broken for the coffin. At that, I could only feel emotion by imagining my own mother, not the one in the book.  The reader can't feel much emotion for mom, Maureen.  She loved her dogs more than her own family and the author didn't give us much from her perspective, as she was dead through most of the book.  The ending was just that, it stops, and thank heavens for that.  I was relieved to get it over with.  I can't imagine what qualified it for this prestigious award.wn family and the author didn't give us much from her perspective, as she was dead through most of the book.  The ending was just that, it stops, and thank heavens for that.  I was relieved to get it over with.  I can't imagine what qualified it for this prestigious award.	2003-06-19
US	46631066	R2ZGZIYI8BF9ZZ	0375502238	955709915	Blessings	Books	2	5	13	N	N	What Can I Say?  Read on....	Blessings is the name of an estate named after a prominent family and Lydia Blessings is the owner and last namesake in line. She is now an 80-year old woman living alone on the property with caretakers.  Much of the book is about her memories and some of them very frivolous and not relevant to the story line.<br />The author sometimes confuses the reader as she jumps from past to present so rapidly that you have to follow closely to know what she is thinking about, and then find you don't really care anyway, it doesn't matter to the story.  I had to skim over a lot of it because the author gave me more than I cared to know about the main character, but not enough about the other characters.<br /><br />It is about an infant girl abandoned on the Blessings estate, in the garage, by a teen couple unable to care for a newborn.  The infant is discovered by the estate's caretaker, Skip, who falls in love with the baby and decides to keep her.  That part of it was interesting, but I was left wanting to know more about Skip the man, other than that he had rowdy friends.  I also wanted to know more about the infants real parents and their backgrounds.  She just skims over that part and goes on AND ON about the old lady.  Admittedly, the reader gets to like Lydia Blessings a little better as the story goes on and she conspires to help Skip care for the baby girl.<br />I was anxious to get through it for book club, but my copy went into the Goodwill bag when I was done.	2003-06-11
US	46631066	R2P522Y2VV82PJ	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Blew Me Away!	Oh my gosh!  The incredibly talented Mr. Iles has us believing the unbelievable. I can see why author Stephen King praised this book, although it is not written in the King style. It is a supernatural thriller, unlike anything I have ever read, but this exceptional storyteller has us believing that it could happen, and makes the incredible seem logical.<br />Iles takes us back once again to wonderful Natchez, Mississippi, (his actual home town) for the locale of this novel.  The main character is John Waters, a likeable, decent man, 41 years old with a young daughter and a wife who loves him, but is unable to make love with him after 2 traumatic miscarriages.  Along comes Eve Sumner, lady realtor, to tempt him - in the process of luring him in she shocks him by telling him things only a former lover would know - Mallory Candler, with whom he had an obsessive love affair, culminating in her trying to kill him,  before she herself was murdered by a rapist 10 years prior.  How can Eve Sumner possibly know these personal things about his relationship with Mallory of long ago?  She is 10 years younger than Mallory would have been if she lived.<br />John spends 2 weeks out of his life seeing Eve Sumner nights as he sneaks out of his house instead of sleeping, returning before morning, then his life starts to fall apart, and he wonders if he is losing his mind, and if his past will doom his future.<br /><br />The plot twists and turns of this book keep shocking the reader.  Our sympathies go out to this likeable main character because we can't imagine how we would react in a situation such as he is in - it's just overwhelming - you root for him to fight back!<br /> Stephen King said something on the jacket about being hooked after the 7th chapter - it keeps your interest from the beginning, but he's right, after the 7th chapter, look out, and by the 11th chapter, I recommend you not pick it up at bed-time or you will \\"Sleep No More.\\"<br /> I agree with one other reader, however, who found that it ended abruptly, and left us wondering about a couple things... but I will leave that to you to determine for yourself... Thank you, Greg for a gripping novel - can't wait to see what's next!however, who found that it ended abruptly, and left us wondering about a couple things... but I will leave that to you to determine for yourself... Thank you, Greg for a gripping novel - can't wait to see what's next!	2002-11-20
US	46631066	R18BOUQW0DCKSZ	0451180410	215863794	Mortal Fear	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Whew!  Get ready for a ride!	Harper Cole trades commodities over the Internet from his isolated Mississippi farmhouse.  He is also an accomplished guitarist, singer-composer, and married to a successful doctor.  Nights he spends on his computer, as a systems operator for an internet sex site that guarantees its affluent clients total anonymity.  Harper stumbles across some facts that indicate a stranger has infiltrated the security system and is  killing off women subscribers to the site.  When he reports this to the authorities, Harper and his long-time friend and associate, Miles Turner are the prime suspects.<br />In order to prove their innocence they come up with an ingenious plan to lure the killer out into the open, but not without great personal risk to Harper and his loved ones. He has sexual secrets of his own and this puts Harper in a situation of inner conflict that reels the reader in.  All the characters in this story line are great and believable.<br />The novel builds to a fast pace, but will appeal more to a computer literate reader, as the trap to catch the killer is \\"tech\\" oriented.  The computer dialogue is intense and the killer absolutely scary in his intelligence, strength and manipulative abilities.<br /> It has a little bit of everything - mystery, sex, humor, romance and suspense, but also goriness. The squeamish reader may cringe at the descriptive crime scenes, but it is definitely well written and may very well give a reader second thoughts about entering a chat room. An intense, good book.	2002-11-19
US	46631066	RCRKH8TORLF29	0451206525	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow! What a riveting story!	As a successful, professional photographer, Jordan Glass is recognized in her field, as her famous father once was. He has been missing, presumed dead in Cambodia for over 30 years. She has always missed him and never given up on the fact that he may still be alive, but has kept an emotional distance from any man she could love and possibly lose again. At 40 years of age she remains single.<br /><br />While in Hong Kong on a business trip she browses an art gallery and is puzzled by the gasps of onlookers as they look at her and back at a painting of a woman in \\"repose.\\" As she approaches the painting the reason for the stares are obvious - the woman in the painting looks exactly like her. Is she asleep or dead? She looks dead, and it disturbs her a great deal, as her twin sister has been missing for over a year. Could she have been killed and posed for the painter? Thus begins a story with so many twists and turns that you have to keep reading it. It is very well done.<br />This is story of crime, passion, love, hope, rejection, it is many things, and the characters draw the reader in with their complexities. It takes place in New Orleans, but jumps to other parts of the world occasionally. There is no shortage of action once it gets moving. It involves the FBI, the NOPD, swat teams, and the reader gets well acquainted with them too.<br />I have not read a book of this caliber for some time. The last half of the book was especially hard to put down, and kept me up many nights past my bedtime. It is my 2nd Greg Iles book, and I'm anxious to start my 3rd one, \\"Sleep No More.\\" I may not, (sleep, that is) once I start it.<br /> If you are the type that has to be jump-started into a novel on the first page or two, be patient with \\"Dead Sleep\\" - it will be worth the wait and doesn't take that long. It is a good book for either a man or a woman. Give it as a gift to an avid reader, you won't be sorry, and neither will they!	2002-11-05
US	46631066	RD26TX4N3UT8J	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	This whole story happens in "24 hours"	I read the hardback \\"24 Hours\\" not \\"Trapped\\" as someone else indicated below.  It was the first of his books that I have read, but I understand that Dead Sleep (which I will read next) was even better.  This is a story of a kidnapping, the 5th of its kind for the kidnappers, none of the previous kidnappings having been reported, all \\"successful\\" as planned, and all are children of Doctors.  The kidnapper uses his real name, lets the victims see his face, and his motto is \\"the kid always makes it,\\" although the story leads the reader to wonder if the current kidnapping has the same rules as the previous kidnappings, as there seems to be a real personal agenda in this one. I thought it was well done and it kept my interest, as we get to see what really motivates the main kidnapper, Joe Hickey, how he manipulates his accomplices in the crime, his wife and semi-retarded cousin, and why he commits these crimes. He never asks for exorbitant amounts of money, only what he knows the victim (Doctor) can afford and come up with in 24 hours. I disagree that it was boring, and although some of it was predictable, I still recommend it as a good book to read.	2002-10-29
US	46631066	R3PJA445NULF9F	037543075X	717558254	The Rescue (Random House Large Print)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	I devoured this book!	What an emotional experience it was.  Maybe I was more involved in it than most because my husband has devoted his life to saving lives as a fire-fighter, but if you plan to read this book, which I hope you do, get ready for an emotional roller-coaster.  The characters were wonderful, the writing wonderful, as usual, Mr. Sparks is a master at writing about love, life and death.<br />  This novel grabs your attention immediately, as a young mother has an auto accident in the middle of a bad storm. She is knocked unconscious temporarily, and when she wakes up and turns around to check on her only passenger, her 4 yr. old son in the back youth car-seat, he is gone, the door open on his side.  A volunteer fireman comes to her rescue and the story takes off from there as the search begins for Kyle, the young boy with learning disabilities, who can hardly talk, understand or be understood, making the search more intense for all involved.  Tyler McAden is the fireman/rescuer of this woman, who puts himself in harm's way to rescue others and takes chances with his own life that even most firemen would not take.  He is good at what he does, but the reader doesn't know what motivates and drives him until the end, and it is sooo moving, your heart just chokes up on you.  The whole book has a lot of action, tender moments between its characters and is now my all-time favorite by Nicholas Sparks.  I read the library's copy then went out and bought my own (yes, from Amazon) for my own library.  Loved it!!	2002-10-17
US	46631066	R904AYLOHOKTK	0553583980	330622208	True Blue	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Luanne doesn't dissapoint!	Zeb Mayhew and Rumer Larkin, the two main characters are childhood friends, next door neighbors and eventually sweethearts.  He is a star-gazer, she an animal and nature lover.  He grows up to be astronaut and she a veterinarian.  He marries her sister Elizabeth, breaks Rumers heart in the process, has a son, divorces, then comes back  to Hubbard's Point (Connecticut) and tries to win Rumer back again and make peace with his own heart.  Along the tumultuous way, we get familiar with the whole family, and township of Hubbard's Point, and to read about other characters from some of Ms. Rice's other books, which we feel we already know.  I love how she does this, as we get so connected with her characters that it is nice to pick up a new book and get an update and what happened to so-and-so from a previous novel.  Every time I read one of Luanne's books about Hubbards Point I want to go there and see for myself what it looks like, even though her discriptions are wonderful.  I love her characters and few authors can rival this author's ability to portray the complex situations and emotions that bind family members as well as Ms. Rice can. This is a beautiful story of love, loss and reconciliation without the explicit sex that other authors rely on to sell their books.  I look forward to each of her books and definitely recommend this one.	2002-10-11
US	46631066	R4M28BR6JJN2F	0399147926	289151149	Smoke In Mirrors	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Disappointing!	I've read several of her books lately and liked most of them.  This one was just not as interesting.  I didn't like the story line.  The gothic atmosphere of the library and the information about mirrors didn't hold my attention.  As far as the characters went, there wasn't enough meat here. I couldn't feel connected to them. She is a witty writer and I loved the Eclipse Bay series, but this one didn't cut it for me.	2002-09-22
US	46631066	R36ZWS6VAAXHQI	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	4	41	45	N	N	A Good Read!	A reporter, Jack McEvoy, looks into the death of his twin brother, a homicide detective who is found dead in his vehicle, an apparent suicide. Doubting the facts, he investigates the circumstances of his brother's death and uncovers cases of assumed suicides of other officers, with one commonality, a suicide note that apparently is a line from a poem. This opens an official investigation for a serial killer dubbed \\"The Poet.\\"<br /><br />This book may not grab you right off the bat, but after you get into it, you keep turning those pages longer than you intended to. If you like details of crime investigations you will like this book. The main character, Jack, is not a super-hero, but a believable and likeable good guy, who's persistence and determination one has to admire.<br /><br />The pedophile personality in the book is very disturbing, and the murders descriptive, so it is not for the squeamish reader. I liked the fact that the book keeps you wondering as to who the real cop-killer is. The only disappointment was in the killers motivation - when the real killer is revealed, it is unclear what caused the individual to go wrong and created such an evil, warped personality. Recommend it for lovers of suspense and crime-solving - Intense, fast reading!	2002-09-12
US	46631066	R22W20W2VQ7YBC	037540872X	721431789	A Walk to Remember (Random House Large Print (Cloth/Paper))	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Should be in everyone's  collection of fiction.	I read the library's version - then went out and bought this for my own library.  I even bought a copy for my grandson, a teen, for his book report this year.  It is a clean book with a lot of good messages about life, love and death.  Vintage Sparks. It's in a class by itself. Don't judge the book by the movie, which I felt was an injustice to the writing of the book.<br /><br />The story is told by a 57 yr old man about the year he was a senior in high school in 1958, and about his little town in North Carolina where he grew up.  Nicholas Sparks is hilarious in his dialogue of the kids and how they tease, sit around the cemetery and tell jokes, etc.  You will laugh along with them, but it has a lot of insight as you see the main character, Landon, grow from a boy into a man as he befriends the preachers daughter, who his buddies all make fun of.  He feels sorry for her at first, then comes to care for her a great deal.  I can see my grandson in this role, as he has a big heart and always sees the goodness in someone, even if others don't.  It is a very fast read and one to discuss with your kids when you are done with it...lessons learned about friendships and loyalties, written in an interesting and insightful Sparks way.	2002-09-06
US	46631066	R11OKJ1I3DZ0TP	0446527785	916864624	A Bend in the Road	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A fast entertaining read...	If you have read Sparks other books you may expect more, but I wasn't disappointed. It kept my interest, which is what you look for in a fast beach read. I loved The Rescue, and The Notebook with its sequel, The Wedding.  I think they were better than this one, but this is good. It has a good plot, with believable characters.  I liked the way it was written with the \\"guilty\\" driver telling his part of the story.<br /><br />The main character's wife is killed by a hit and run driver after they have an argument, and he is left with his guilt, a son to take care of and the guilty driver to find, as he is the town cop. Sparks is a master at stories of love and tragedy, and he always engages the reader with his characters. He manages to do it all without a lot of explicit sex and foul language either.  Take this along on a flight or a day at the beach.  Thumbs up!	2002-09-06
US	46631066	RZ0ZWKGLLV30C	038073320X	199143484	The Gazebo: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A moving story,  fast and easy to read.	This is similar to the movie \\"Same Time Next Year\\" but without the comedy of the movie. I understand this was Emily Grayson's debut novel released in 2000, but I just got it given to me and was delighted that I enjoyed it so much and look forward to reading what she comes up with next.<br /><br />Martin and Claire first meet as teenagers at their hometown's focal point, the gazebo, in 1949 and fall in love.  Although they are from opposite ends of the social spectrum, their desire to spend their lives together inspires them to leave Longmont Falls and pursue their own lives, in spite of their families objections - he to become a chef, instead of running his fathers successful business, and she to sculpt and study the arts in Europe.  The reader gets drawn into their love story and becomes frustrated that they never get to marry.<br /><br />Just before their planned wedding in England, Claire is called home to care for her dying mother, intending to return to Martin and her planned future, but it just never happens. One thing after another prevent them from marrying until they inevitably marry other people and begin their lives apart from each other, yet meeting once a year at the gazebo of their hometown on May 27th, the day they first met.  A lot happens to both of these people and their families, which keep the reader hooked, and the ending is the best part. If you liked The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks, you'll like this.  A well-written book, and a good choice for a short vacation or long weekend, as you'll read it fast and enjoy every minute.	2002-04-03
US	46631066	R68D3REW64DEP	0553802186	333134566	Safe Harbor	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good Enough Reading, but not her best (still I'm a Rice fan)	This story is of two generations of sisters, Dana and Lily, and Lily's daughters, Quinn and Allie.  Dana Underhill, the main character, is a well-known artist, known for her ability to capture on canvas, her most passionate love, the sea.  Living and painting in France when a tragedy takes the life of her beloved sister, Dana comes home to Hubbards Point, Connecticut, where she and her sister, Lily first learned to sail and fell in love with the sea.  Now her life is about to change entirely as she is thrust with the responsibility of raising her two nieces who are struggling to accept the death of their parents, in what may or may not be an accident on a sailboat.  A former student, Sam Trevor who fell in love with Dana when she taught him to sail at the age of 8, has never forgotten her, re-enters her life as an adult only to find his feelings for her are strong and he wants to be at her side to help her through this awful time in her life.  The relationship between them is interesting enough, but not the heart-stopping emotional kind that brings tears to your eyes. As usual Ms. Rice does a great job of portraying the young people in this story, their frustrations, anxieties and all the emotions involved in losing their parents, and acceptance in what life hands them.  I think this book lacks some of the passion that her other novels have had.  It was one I found I could set down for a day or two and get back to it, as opposed to not being able to put it down and reading far into the night.  I am a Luanne Rice fan.  I especially liked Cloud Nine and Follow the Stars Home.	2002-04-03
US	46631066	RVT25C3SXMSRQ	0553801198	77681626	Dream Country	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Grabs your attention on the first page!	This is the story of Daisy and James Tucker, whose 3 year old son disappears from their Wyoming cattle ranch, seemingly from right under James nose.  The loss of their son tears them apart, and Daisy can't bear to stay in Wyoming, taking her son's twin sister Sage and going to live in Connecticut where she raises her and supports them by making jewelry.  James could not leave the ranch in hopes that one day he would find his missing son, Jake.  There are a lot of powerful emotions here from every angle.  Luanne Rice is very good at involving the reader, and very good at describing the emotions of teenagers, as well as parents and lovers.<br />Thirteen years later, Jake's twin sister, Sage is 16 and finds herself pregnant, wanting her baby, but afraid to disappoint her mother. She leaves her a note as the book opens, and takes off on a difficult trek from Connecticut to Wyoming through bad weather and much soul-searching in hopes of re-uniting with her father, and learning about her past.  Even `though the story as it reaches its climax, seems a bit far-fetched, the dialogue and exquisite descriptions along the way make it completely enthralling to the reader. The descriptive scenery of the Wyoming landscape and the spiritual pull of Native American influence make it different from the usual. I enjoyed it, and love Luanne Rice's writing. It keeps you interested and turning those pages.	2002-04-02
US	46631066	R35FWNQDBESA7K	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Starts OK but gets better and better!	This was written before The Hostage, which I read first, my first time reading Mr. Crais.  I loved The Hostage, it was so fast paced,  so I thought I would read some of his other novels.  This started off slower than Hostage, not grabbing you quickly, but the more you get into it the better it gets.  The characters are believable. Readers cannot help but feel empathy with the main character, Carol Starkey, detective and bomb expert, who lost her life briefly but was revived after a terrible blast which also took the life of her lover.  This story begins 3 years after that fact. She is still having trouble dealing with it, still undergoing therapy, and surviving on gin, cigarettes and Tagamet.  Yet, her mind is sharp and her experience invaluable in seeking the answers to what happened and who is responsible when another of her close associates is killed in yet another blast. Her involvement with agent Jack Pell, in trying to solve the case and catch Mr. Red, the presumed bad guy, draws them closer together, which creates havoc for each of them emotionally, as they each have baggage to deal with and dont know how to do so.  The plot twists are page-turners and keeps the reader involved and on the edge of your seat after the first few chapters. I had trouble putting this book down for the last third of it. The internet dialogue between Carol and Mr. Red, is riveting, and the climax very intense. I do recommend this book if you are a fan of crime drama and suspense.	2002-03-22
US	46631066	R21AMPN5SXLEWV	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A very good book!	This is my second book by Ms. Picoult, the first being Salem Falls.  I liked this one better.  It grabs your attention immediately and keeps it there through the duration.  It takes place in Amish Country, Lancaster, Pennsylvania.  As it opens, young unmarried Katy makes her way during the night to the family's barn on their dairy farm to give birth.  It is a traumatic event for her, as she has not accepted the pregnancy and is praying to God to deliver her from this unfortunate event.  She falls asleep right after the delivery and when she awakens the child is gone and she thinks God answered her prayers and goes back to bed.  When the child is found dead, Katy is arrested for its murder and here is where the story really begins.  It takes you back through previous events and introduces the reader to all the characters, beginning with Katy's Amish family.  I personally did not know much about the Amish but have a new respect for them after reading this.  All of the characters were believable and I found the attorney who defended her (a distant female cousin) enjoyable and admirable.  I highly recommend this book, and will read more by Jodi.	2002-03-19
US	46631066	R2Y6C8H2CV0JKO	0743418700	768832350	Salem Falls	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Two and a half stars for this one, not her best	This is readable, likeable, but not great. This is the story of Jack St. Bride, a former teacher who although innocent, was convicted of the statutory rape of a student, after being convinced by his attorney to plea-bargain.  He spent 8 months in jail and moves to Salem Falls to make a new start.  He goes to work in a diner, working for a woman named Addie, who was also raped as a teen, got pregnant and lost her daughter at a young age and is still grieving.  I found it unrealistic that everyone that knows Addie accepts as \\"normal\\" that Addie talks to her deceased daughter, and of her daughter, as if she is still alive, even setting a place for her every day in the diner. A predictable romance develops between Jack and Addie.<br /><br />A sub-plot about teens involved in witchcraft wasn't my cup of tea either, but teen readers will like it. Ms. Picoult strings her words together well and has some very good novels out there, but if you haven't read her before don't start with this one. \\"Plain Truth\\" and \\"My Sister's Keeper\\" are a couple of her best.	2002-03-19
US	46631066	R16NRW0KVW9SDJ	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intense!  This crime novel is hard to put down....	Set in suburban Southern Calif. Jeff Talley is Chief of Police, former LAPD SWAT negotiator, trying to forget ghosts of the past.  He is forced back into action as a situation develops in his normally quiet high-class little town outside of L.A.  Three small time punks rob a mini-mart, the owner ends up dead, and the robbers take off, to be left stranded by a disabled vehicle. They take cover in a large home in an affluent neighborhood, where they take a family hostage, a father and his two children.  They pick the wrong house to take refuge in. As the story unfolds we see that others are interested in what could be found in that house and what lengths they will go to,  to protect their secrets from surfacing.  This is my first time to read Robert Crais.  I think he is very good.  Reminds me of James Patterson in that his chapters are short and intense. His characters are totally believable.  He keeps the reader involved, with Talley, the punks and the hostages. Something keeps happening in each chapter to make you want to turn the next page.  I read it in two sittings, and will definitely be looking at his previous novels.	2002-03-01
US	46631066	R2IWIZL1IQQV07	0670821314	477370178	Crazy in Love	Books	2	18	20	N	N	This was written in 1988	I read this after reading some of her newest novels - which I have loved.  This one, however, is similar to a couple others of her older ones that lack substance. It is more difficult to connect with these characters, showing us that writers do indeed improve with experience, as we all do.<br /><br />The main character here is a woman named Georgie, who is \\"crazy in love' with her husband - to the point of obsession, and the poor guy, who is in love with her, can't seem to convince her that she doesn't have to be insecure about their relationship or be jealous... yet she hates to see him go to work each time he has to leave. She wants to follow him around, and does sometimes.<br /><br />Georgie was driving me up the wall, just reading about it, and I am a woman. She gets funding for a research project about Human Nature where she interviews people and tells their stories about events in their lives, but even that doesn't get the reader involved ... I didn't find it very enjoyable and had to skim through a lot of parts of this book to get it finished.<br />If you haven't read her before, start with \\"Follow the Stars Home,\\"<br />\\"Home Fires\\" or \\"Summer Light.\\"  She is a great writer, but don't start with this one.	2002-02-28
US	46631066	R1485ZBEDLHK8K	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	4 1/2 stars actually - a nice change for Patterson	As a longtime Patterson reader, I know he can write, but this style surprised me.  This is real different for him, as we are used to the fast crime dramas he puts out. It was still an enthralling and a fast read, and yes had those short chapters that tempt you to \\"read just one more.\\" it can easily be a weekend book.<br /><br />We discussed it in book club, mainly the ending, and we didn't all agree on whether we liked the ending or not. A well written romance, albeit sad in parts.  Read it and decide for yourself. I liked it and recommend it for romance lovers.	2002-02-25
US	46631066	R357O3YPCNKANA	0425097749	912724813	Angels All Over Town	Books	1	15	16	N	N	Don't start reading Rice with this one!	This is Ms. Rice's first novel written in 1985. Meet Una Caven, by day a successful soap opera actress, by night, 80's woman ordinaire. This story introduces us to the Caven clan, primarily the story of 3 sisters.<br /><br />Una, evidently pronounced Oooh-nah, not You-nah, is the oldest of the 3 sisters, and the single one, who is searching for Mr. Right. Always inseparable, the sisters relationships change when the younger ones take on spouses, much to Una's dismay and frustration. Her quest for the right soul-mate takes the reader through a lot of mundane dialogue.<br /><br />Una's sexual escapades are described rather crudely, which I found surprising, after reading some of Ms. Rice's most recent novels. Obviously, Luanne Rice has much improved since this first novel of hers. Her recent novels have much more substance, and the love/sexual sequences are now written with emotional impact that enrapture and captivate the reader, unlike this first attempt.<br /><br />If you have not read her before, don't start with this one - try \\"Follow the Stars Home,\\" \\"Home Fires\\" or \\"Summer Light\\"... she is a great writer, one of my favorites.	2002-01-29
US	46631066	R3JGCLHKXD9GHF	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A good book to take on a vacation or trip.	This is a book within a book.  About an author<br />with a mission, and it is up to us to figure out what that<br />mission is exactly.  We get to read excerpts from a book<br />submitted by one of the characters in the story, to a publisher<br />with little information about himself.  She likes the manuscript<br />so much that she searches him out, and spends time with him<br />as he works on the book for her to publish.  There are subplots<br />in this book as well, romance, and puzzling circumstances<br />that make this unusual book more interesting.<br />  I enjoyed it, but it took some time to get into it. I found<br />myself skimming through the first part, but if you have the<br />patience it gets better as it goes along, and it is worth<br />finishing.  I have found other of Brown's books to grab your<br />attention immediately and keep you rivetted, but I wouldn't<br />put this one in that category.  I checked it out at the library<br />but would not need to own this one.	2002-01-28
US	46631066	R37RT777QXVE4F	0061092827	899591236	Shades of Grace	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Actually 4-1/2 stars!  One of Her Best!	Grace is 61 years old and at the onset of Alzheimer's.  She is an advice columnist (like Dear Abby) with a strong following and a succesful career.  Her daughter and grand-daughter live with her in a big house and start noticing a change in her which they find hard to accept.<br /><br />The novel takes us through what each family member goes through, in dealing with this illness. Grace, writing things down so she doesn't forget, and trying to keep others from noticing her diminishing capacity. The same for her daughter, who has to start writing the column for her and keeping her Mom from making public appearances so that she doesn't embarrass herself, and so that the media and her audience won't have to know what is happening to her. It was a very moving part of the book when she does make one public appearance and forgets words which make it noticeable to all that something is going on.<br /><br />The entire novel engages the reader emotionally, and gives us a personal insight into dealing with this problem. In true Delinsky fashion, you feel a connection with the characters in her story that you don't forget long after you finish the book. I bought copies for 2 loved ones that are in similar situations, and one for myself, to remind me of how the affected person is feeling, so I will know how to deal with it if I ever have to go through it. It is not a reference book, but there's plenty to learn here just the same. It is a wonderful story of family love, unity, support and strength, and for romance readers, there is some of that too.<br /><br />Barbara Delinsky knows how to tie it all together to make reading a wonderful experience. She is one of my favorite authors.  I look forward to each of her books.	2002-01-28
US	46631066	R1AMNTUIZZ5NSY	0446602159	725040051	Commitments	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Interesting Delinsky Read	Delinksy is always interesting.  I have read almost all her books.  In my opinion, this is not one of her best, but it is still a good book and will keep most readers interested throughout the duration. She gets better and better as time goes on.  Her later books are all wonderful. One can see how her writing has improved when comparing early books such as &quot;12 Across,&quot; &quot;Bronze Mystique&quot; and some of her early Harlequin stories to her later novels.  If you have not read her before, start with &quot;For My Daughters,&quot; &quot;Suddenly,&quot; Vineyard&quot; or &quot;Coast Road.&quot;  This is a good one to check out at the library, but not necessarily to spend money buying and keeping.	2002-01-27
US	46631066	R1FQOAJIQ70BLI	0783819358	336341129	Within Reach (G K Hall Large Print Book Series)	Books	5	52	52	N	N	One of her best!	I am a Delinsky fan, having read 17 of her books thus far.  I read at bedtime, and hated when my eyes forced me to sleep.  Still I read it in 3 nights and it was good all the way through. The main character, Danica, is a lonely, wealthy woman.  The daughter of a senator and wife of a self-absorbed businessman.  She buys a house in Kennebunkport, Maine,  in the hopes of having some time alone with her husband and improving their marriage... but he apparently isn't interested in the personal side of their marriage, and rarely goes there.  She meets a neighbor on the beach, a male author, and the story takes you through the cultivation of their friendship and how it affects both their lives.  The story and characters are believable, and make you feel like you personally know them -  The book has a little bit of everything... it isn't just a love story, it's about personal growth, loyalty, a little politics - how it probably really is for wives and family of politicians, the big-business world and more - it keeps you turning those pages. If you like to read about women growing strong and fighting for what really matters in life, you'll enjoy this.	2002-01-25
US	46631066	R3THF3TYCU2N7D	0385335377	224196833	Lone Eagle	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Steel not up to par on this one.	Although the story line is good, the writing is repetitive.  The reader is constantly reminded of what he/or she has already read.  It's also dragged out and is a long book as it is.  I have read a lot of her books through the years and this one disappoints. Each time this star-crossed couple gets a set back in this book, it starts over again... the best thing about it was the ending when it finally came - and that was anti-climatic.  One wonders if Steel actually did the writing.<br /><br />I have outgrown Ms. Steel, I do believe, as I have been reading a few authors lately that really grab your attention and don't let go, that is what I like. I would not recommend this to someone that wants more substance in their reading.	2002-01-12
US	46631066	RB7DR176YAT6T	0553568183	125075720	Blue Moon	Books	2	11	14	N	N	Disappointing!	I first read Luanne Rice's &quot;Home Fires&quot; and loved it so much I went looking for more, then read &quot;Follow the Stars Home&quot; which was also wonderful, and I started collecting her books.  This is the 3rd one I have read by her and was sooo disappointed that it did not compare with the other 2 mentioned here.  It is a lot of boring dialogue in the beginning, seeming to lead to nowhere in the first 100+ pages and you want to scream &quot;get going here with something&quot; - I am not giving up on her however, as her later books were better and this was only her 2nd book. Maybe she was experimenting or something. I am reading Summer Light next and keeping my fingers crossed!	2002-01-07
US	46631066	R1LDX3ZXKVJ4DS	0553573225	606701643	Home Fires	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	What a wonderful discovery - Luanne Rice!	This was my first book by her, but it won't be my last. Thank you Amazon, for recommending this author to me. She keeps you turning the pages. This story of a mom recovering from the loss of her only child and then slowly falling in love with the \\"wounded and scarred\\" firefighter who rescues her touched my heart. As the wife of a fire-fighter myself it has special meaning, but anyone would love this story. I can't wait to read another of her books. She doesn't drag things out, and go on frivolously as some women authors do, but gives you such an insight into the emotions and depths of her characters. I highly recommend this book. Since I finished this book I have read others by her and found that her early books \\"Angels All Over Town\\" and \\"Blue Moon\\" were not written as well as her newer books.  She is a greatly improved writer and has 2 new books coming out in 2002 - which I can't wait to read.  This one I actually went out and bought after reading it from the library. I originally read the hardcover, not the paperback as it says here.	2002-01-03
US	46631066	RZ7MXX541N796	0671036505	526930828	The Vineyard	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Keeper!	I loved this book.  I have read 16 Delinsky's in this one is in my top 3.  I had to go find a hard cover edition for my personal library.  It is a good choice to give to your Mother for a special gift.  My mother is in her late 70's and this book inspired me to request her keep a journal for her family - which she is, but instead of writing it, she is putting it on tape for us to write up. A must read for Delinsky's fans.  You will remember these characters for a long time after closing the book.	2001-11-30
US	46631066	R12TNM9HRATBBS	0684864320	690095340	Lake News	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Not one of her best	I have read 16 Delinsky books, and loved most of them, but this one was the slowest to get into. She is great describing the loons and the regional charm of the area, but it didn't move fast enough for me. It is one you can put down and pick up again later at your leisure. I did finish it, but it took some time.	2001-11-30
US	46631066	R7T3CHE6KAY6D	0061092800	790881407	For My Daughters	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Very moving!	A wonderful book! Delinsky grabs your interest immediately and keeps it going 'til the last page.  I recently started reading her when someone gave me her book &quot;Suddenly&quot; and read 8 more by her.  &quot;Coast Road&quot; and &quot;Three Wishes&quot; are also great.  This one is about a mother that didn't bond with her daughters while they were growing up, and why, and all the regrets on both sides, as they all reluctantly come together for Mom's 70th birthday. It's a great love story, but much more than that. Expect to shed a tear, and a few smiles.  A great book! One you will want to keep on your library shelf.	2001-03-20
