US	46704336	RUY6JON88HXAD	0316735736	563997838	All He Ever Wanted: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The obsession with love!	What a read this book will be for those who decide to pick it up.  Nicolas Van Tassel stumbles, in a tragic fire, upon a woman whom he finds himself completely consummed with.  Suddenly his entire purpose in life is to have her, marry her, and if possible, win her love back.<br />Is this possible?  Can someone fall in  love with you simply because you love them?  Can decidng to 'settle' on marrying someone really be a pay off in the end?  And what about women, not only of hte early 1900's , but of today also- who find themselves absolutely consumed in their family and home- what is their freedom in life? And finally, what is 'crossing the line', when you yearn for the one you love to be near you.....<br />These questions are all so complex, and this novel will push you to the end of exploring these questions.  A deeply moving yet very subtle novel.  Very light on dialogue, this story consists more of Van Tassel and his obsession filled thoughts, his needs and desires, and  how they rule his life.  I was a bit stunned on his final admission of freeedom from this obsession and the only way he reaches it.<BR>Not a fast paced novel, but defintely deep and emotional..... through VanTassel's point of view you only pity him and his warped view of love.   This is a book that will keep you thinking and discussing long into the night.....  a good book for people who love to read!	2004-02-19
US	46704336	R2X6P9GCFL0XWB	0446530743	928447794	Amanda Bright@home	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A light read, easy to enjoy	I loved Amanda from the first few pages.... I too, quit work to have my second child, and I can relate to the task of tripping over toys, trying to stay sane with friends, and not having a clue what to make for dinner.... again.  That being said, this book explores Amanda trying to figure out and cope wiht her decision to be a stay at home mom.<br />While it is certainly not the most well written book, I still enjoyed reading this. It was easy to read (good, when your dodging kids in the back round) and was nicely paced.. keeping your attention.  I thought the refernces to the Microsoft trials (disguised not so well as a company called &quot;megabyte&quot;) were almost funny, and the everyday hassle of life, love (or lack of it) and other mundane tasks of raising a family were easy to relate to.<br />Maybe you are a lot like Amanda, staying home to raise those kids in what little moment of time you do have.... maybe you know someone who could relate to Amanda, or maybe you are part of a book group that would find this an interesting topic to discuss... if that is the case this easy read will satisfy you....and maybe even surprisingly touch you in the end...	2004-01-29
US	46704336	R20EOTI4I9KYTT	0937611352	239822002	Heal Your Body	Books	5	54	62	N	N	Easy reference for our Emotional Links	As a massage therapist I deal with the physical body on a daily basis, and one thing is for sure... the link between our physical and emotional state of being is very powerful.<br />If you are interested in learning more about this, Heal Your Body is the perfect introduction to this concept.. you will be able to look up ailment from anorexia to and earache, then see what various research has shown to be a link to this.  Also included are affirmations which you can repeat to yourself when you feel the effects of the ailment, thus promoting a healthy thought pattern to replace the negative one.<br />This book is very simple, very straight forward, including a small introduction and testimonial by Hay which is also worth reading.  I have loved this book, referring to it often, and have clients reaching for it all the time.  A good addition to any holistic library.	2004-01-29
US	46704336	R3VWY119K2YTBO	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An intense and educational read!	Okay, so you may be thinking... how is this educational??? It is a thriller, murder mystery, not far off a Grisham or Clancy feel, but then it is packed with so much more!<br />When Robert Langdon gets a shocking call in the middle of the night he is tangled in the middle of a countdown to detsruction.  His knowledge of symbology and ancient brotherhoods and their connections pulls you into this mystery.  Through his conversation you too, will be informed, not only on religous symbols and rituals, but simply things like a 'thumbs up' sign, and it's origin of meaning.  <br />I was actually told to read this before Da Vinci code, becasue it gives you a good background on our main character and it is a premise to the later book.  I am reading DaVinci Code next, and very excited to.  While Langdon's antics do get a little &quot;james Bondish&quot; in the end, this book is still riveting and full of surprises.  It reads much like a movie script, is easy to follow, and loaded with extra goodies in references to 'Satanic Cult's' , the Vatican city and its strange quirks,plus more.  Lace all this into a fast paced day of a man (with a beautiful side kick) trying to save lives and you have yourself an EXCELENT weekend read.  DON'T MISS IT!  You will be glad you took the time to read this one.  <br />References to Bernini and his sculptures are so much a part of this story, by looking up statues and finding these works of art to study as you read will only enhance this great book.	2003-12-04
US	46704336	R2ZJEK2Y899QUO	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good, but falls just a bit flat.....	Having read 'Girl with a pearl earring' and loving it, I was excited to pick up a copy of Virgin Blue.  It wasn't really what I expected.  In spite of the classic cover, the main character, Ella, is a modern day woman who has traveled to France with her husband for his job.  While we read of frustrations with this situation, we never really see why.  She starts off fine with her husband, and the next thing you know they are having all sorts of problems and she is unsure of the marriage.  All the while she is 'researching' and having quite an easy time of it, her ancestry old.<br />Woven into this story is the ancesters she is trying to learn of, so you will flash quickly between past and present.  I have heard others say rhis was confusing, but I didn't find it confusing in this manner.  I actually enjoyed the story of the past (I feel this is where Chevelier's talent really lies)  more then the present one told in this novel.  There is a mystical link of haunting dreams between the two generations, and the end swirls to a strange, dark hault for the lives of the past.<br />One thing Chevelier does not do is give you all the details, sometimes you are left wondering exactly what happened.  That being said I still think it was somewhat of an interesting story, in spite of it not quite hitting the mark.  I think the potential is there for a thought provoking generational tale, but Chevelier doesn;t take you too deep in this one.<br />While I think some who have read 'Girl with a Pearl earring' will not think this was as well executed as the first novel, it is not a true dissappoinment.  Like I said, the story of the past teasches us again about history, during ancient holy wars as the Catholics were persecuted and driven from land to land.  If you are interested in this subject matter, or intrigued by religious tales (Ella's ancestor Isabella is somewhat obsessed by the virgin Mary) I think you will like this novel even more.<BR>It is worth reading if you are interested in this.	2003-11-13
US	46704336	R36J456PNXK6M3	0312280041	821860031	Grange House: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An eerie coming of age novel with fun plot surprises....	I picked up this novel to read during October, feeling in the mood for a little ghost tale.  I didn't expect the fun bit of romance, the touching family story line, and good plot developement.<br />While I was hoping for a good ghost story, this isn't exactly that.  It has 'ghosts' and other strange things which Maisie is 'gifted' enough to see, but it is not exactly scary.  If you know this going in to it, you will make a better choice.  Like I said earlier, it is touched with romance, eerie plot routes, sad deaths, and family issues as well, so it is much more then a simple 'spooky novel'.  <br />Sarah Blake studied victorian literature, and to me this is the strong point of the book.  Her writing is true to a style long forgotten, and she does it well.  She takes you to the grange house, to the graveyard and hillsides, and weaves her story in a beautiful way.  If you enjoy classic books this one is a modern version that will not let you down.  If you like those coming of age tales where a young woman looks for love but really finds herself, with a twist of a haunting tale, this will be a great journey for you.	2003-11-04
US	46704336	R1226BPO8E9HEO	0683306537	457988171	Basic Clinical Massage Therapy: Integrating Anatomy and Treatment (LWW Massage Therapy & Bodywork Series)	Books	5	47	48	N	N	A MUST if you enjoy massage	After graduating from school I thought,&quot;How many more books do I really need?&quot;  But I have no regrets buying this one- my therapist friends have borrowed it and realized they want it, as well.<br />Artists have actually painted the muscles, including origin and insertion, over the photograph of each models body.  Landmarks and hand positions are so easy to follow, and synergist muscles also noted for treatment purposes.  I use this a lot as I work on clients form my home, it is very informative and well formatted. Various strokes as well as pressure and trigger points are also noted.<BR>Not necesssarily for beginners, but perfect for expanding, or reviewing, what you already know. This book would also be very helpful in studying efforts for the NCBTMB national exams. I found it it perfect in review for my test.	2003-10-15
US	46704336	R1JSADU2LTHKI9	0060936436	101293764	The Piano Man's Daughter	Books	5	0	1	N	N	By all views, a good book	You may think this story is only about Lily and her strange way of life, but it is so much more.  It is also about her mother, her mother's empty life, although it would appear to be so full, her mother's loss of love, and other family wounds.  Then , also woven into the story is the life and beliefs of her son, Charlie, who narates the tale of the strange legacy this family carries.<br />At times there are sad situations, sometimes a moment of joy and happiness also seems sad, because you realize how fleeting that moment will be for the characters involved.  The madness of a woman so desperate to also be a mother and the way her needs all intertwine are very well written, and I think the author deserves huge kudos on this fact.  the plot is interesting, the details are well written, and the story is intriguing.  I love feeling like I am somewhere, for instance at a silent film, taking in the details Findley offers and so you also learn about a whole different time and way of life.<br />While some of the other reviews have criticised his over use of italics I found them so important to the book- for they usually revealed the true thoughts behind ones words and they showed how often we are not honest in what we say to what we are really thinking.  All in all there is a lot to be learned from this book, whether it is a sympathetic moment, a new understanding of a different time, or the need to take what good you can from life at all times (a lesson we always need to be reminded of) you will not put this book down without thinking and enjoying some new and interesting thoughts.  <br />Those fans of old time movies and the likes of Charlie Chaplan...etc. would probably enjoy many of the stories in the book even more, for these old time favorites may have been the only escape for some of the tragedy in these characters lives, and parts of the book revolves around them.  I think for people who enjoy reading an interesting tale, especially one that touches on the need to break free from generational issues, this book would be a good additon to your reading list.	2003-10-10
US	46704336	R17A22SQPD6F3J	0385337639	738011644	Crow Lake (Today Show Book Club #7)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A great story with a wonderful lesson	This a book well worth reading.  I picked this up for my road trip to Pheonix, and before I knew it I was toting it to the pool and keeping the light on to finish it.  I was engaged and interested in this beautiful story.<br />When you read this book you will follow the life of Kate, a professor/ researcher/ scientist who loves the small life of ponds and lakes, and when you step the steps of her life with her it is easy to see why her passion is so.  As an adult, Kate is preparing for her return to home for a nephews birthday party.  As she debates whether or not to invite her current lover, whom she loves but has managed to shut from her past, all of her life seems to flash before her.<br />I loved who the book gently took you from the present, with her sweetheart, to the past, with her painful experiences and hurtful memories.  You see how subtly we are truly made up of the moments from our past.  And as you may think this could be a heavy, gut wrenching trip, Lawson delivers the story with ease and honesty- and it won't leave you feeling depressed.  More you will walk away reflecting on the lives of Kate and her siblings, and then your own life, and just exactly how you look at those in it.<br />This is a book well worth reading, and while sometimes women's modern novels can be all to predictable, this novel isn't, and it continues to please right up to the end.	2003-08-07
US	46704336	R1P25C1C9XHGMR	0316781266	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Romantic, touching, heartbreaking &amp; unpredictable	I have read only 2 other of Anita Shreve's books, but after finishing this I will read everything she has written.  This book is  thrill, touching and beautiful.<br />As you begin the book we pick up with Linda, a middle aged woman with much of life needing to be lived... she encounters a lover form her past.... &quot;the one&quot; as some may say.  His name is Thomas, and I absolutely loved his character.  Cocky, yet vulnerable, handsome, yet unkept, and completely in love with her.<br />The book starts with this last &quot;meeting&quot; of the two, and then takes you back in time through there last meeting, then the last before that (which is actually the first meeting) it may sound confusing, but it is not at all.  It was difficult for me to put down, I agree the first portions of the book may be a tad slow, but it adds to the slow, needy feeling these two seem to have felt in between each of their stolen moments together.  <br />The best part of the book is the ending, which takes the puzzle you have been fitting together as you read, and not only finishes it, but creates the whole image of what you are reading into something entirely new.  I walked away from this book (okay, so I cried....) and had a lot to think about, plus an immediate list of friends to pass the book along to.  It is one worth reading and discussing and still discussing, so if book clubs or gatherings are your thing, you have to add this one to your list.  One note from one amazed reader to the other- make sure you finish the book in a soothing, quiet place (not with the kids climbing all over you)  you may have to re-read not only the ending, but other passages in order to soak it all in.  I did give this book 5 stars because for me it was everything I love in a book, beautifully written passages, heart felt observations, interesting characters, and a heart grasping plot.  <br />If you enjoy womens books in this style (such as Elizabeth Berg,and  Jaqulyn Mitchard are also so good at)this isnot one to miss, because while it is a lot like your favorite womens read, it is also so much more.	2003-06-30
US	46704336	R1HMBNLH4IUIB6	0971766711	412001018	A Thousand Country Roads: An Epilogue to The Bridges of Madison County	Books	3	11	12	N	N	An easy book to tie it all up....	I actually liked this book quite a bit.  Now I will say, when I read Bridges I was so overcome with emotion, it also was an easy read, but it really struck a chord (I find this true with my friends also)   I was thrilled to see the second book, and it has also hit paperback (a nice, inexpensive option) for you tote with you.<br />I loved that the book stayed true to the characters, just kind of taking you inside their lives and minds and souls a little bit more.  Kincaid, such a loner and wandereer... but a nice twist is thrown in to this book ( I am not giving it away) that helps you realize his tender side....   Francesca, always the loyal submissive housewife (except for her time with Robert)  shows us how these memories both sustained and haunted her after her goodbye to Robert.   It's an interesting peak into their lives after the fact.<br />You know from reading the first book, that these two do not ever come in contact again, but a for some reason a little part of me thought maybe this book would try to defy it in one small way.  I actually think I was hoping for it, but don't worry, Waller doesn't give in so easy.... he stays true to the plot, meanwhile giving you a satisfying look at the ends of these lives.<br />If you are looking for a light, easy read, with just enough emotion to touch you (though this is not the kind of book that will ROCK your world or anything) especially if you enjoyed the first book, don't pass this little one up.  Even if you haven't read the first one, I think you could still find this one enjoyable.  It is always interesting to be pushed into that thought of wondering..... what chances have we missed ??????	2003-06-10
US	46704336	R31CR8041OZV91	0743463544	630509155	The Man I Should Have Married	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Happy woman's genre......	Now I love 'chick' books.  You know, they make you cry, make you laugh, make you want to fall in love all over again and sometimes tell your mom you're sorry...... you know what I mean.  I thought this book looked fun, and I was right.  I snatched it up (have I menetioned I love this fun size of paper back and I thought the cover was cute?)  and rushed home to start it.  here are the things I loved about this book-<BR>It is not tough to keep up with the dialogue, characters, or plot.  That being said you may chalk it up for the perfect travel read, or pool side mind grabber.  It does deliver a little bit of action... you know, romantic style, so it has it's hot moments you enjoy, and it has quite a bit of fun humor, without trying too hard to be funny.  <br />Kennedy is likable, sometimes reminding you a little of yourself, sometimes reminding you what you wish you could be (just walk in and say &quot;hi&quot; to that old love just like it is the most casual thing in the world....)  As she is working thorugh divorce and the troubles it brings (single child rearing... house buying/ selling/ fixing up)  you will watch her grow.   There are fun twists, fun friends, and of course, the never ending mother issues.... but it's all fun while being just touching enough at the same time.<br />This is a fun, light, romantic book, and if you are looking for that this summer, or for your next road trip, pick this up.  It will let you enjoy your reading time and give that much needed escape from your own daily tasks!	2003-06-10
US	46704336	R1OMJTVGUU0G8X	0425152251	380749586	Sophie's World: A Novel about the History of Philosophy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Deep without being too Heavy..	My little brother, who loves reading philosophy and other deep subjects, passed this book my way.  I began it not knowing at all what to expect.  I was not prepared for the amazing journey I would go on with Sophie, as her life is affected by a corresponding &quot;philisophy teacher&quot; who askes her the questions of life and explains to her how philosophers of old responded to these questions.<br />You will read some great summaries of philiosophical beliefs as they were passed down from one society to the next.  As Sophie tries to sort what she agress with and disagrees with you will do the same.  I found myself having to take time to read this book, to think about the views, and re-read some of these summaries.  You will also be taught how philosophy evolved into science, and then eventually into religion.  All in all, the book is a true simple summary of the history of philosophy, with an underlying plot that will surprize you, and even have you scratching your head now and then trying to figure out exactly wht IS going on.<br />One nice thing about this book is that I believe it could be enjoyed by adults and teens alike.  I think for high school students of philosophy this book should be a must, because the discussions it will invoke will be amazing!<br />The material is deep, seeing how it is philosophy and mans questions of existence, but the book is a light read, and won't leave you to shaken, like some soul searching books might do.  it is a fun read, especially if you enjoy pondering philosophies of life.  Remember, it is more philosophy then story, and if that is what you are looking for, you will love this.<br />I noticed new editions of this book recently in reprint at the book store, and I was excited to see it making a come back.  You will be glad you read it !	2003-04-06
US	46704336	R2CN9HQ1FP5LCF	0345435028	580214343	What We Keep	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Touching, moving, surprising.....	I have read most of Berg's novels, and never sure why I hadn't picked up this one yet I snatched it up for a vacation read.  I was so happy (aside from not wanting to put it down and enjoy vacationing) with the results!<br />Berg takes you on a trip of a young girls life as she remembers it as a woman, going to visit her mother and sister.  Memories (written in present tense as she viewed it) teach you of love, family pain, parental approval, mother's depression, and so much more subtle and poignant lessons we so often over look and don't even realize we have learned them.  What is so liberating is that you believe you have the book figured out, and then Berg throws you just the slightest curve ball which breaks your heart and leaves you asking.....who have I judged unfairly in my life???<br />This is a book well worth buying, reading, sharing with your girlfriends and discussing with your book clubs.  Elizabeth Berg doesn't disappoint, but this book, for me, went above and beyond the mark.  I highly recommend if you enjoy 'women' reads and never tire of reading the simple, heartbreaking daily tests life throws our way that strike a deep chord every time.   It seems at one point I almost felt angry and disppointed with a character or two, to the point that I wondered if I should even finish the book....but I promise you, it all ties together in the end and you will walk away wiser for having read it.	2003-04-06
US	46704336	R17W6C1PQE7CB0	0939616017	354821102	Craniosacral Therapy	Books	5	154	159	N	N	A foundation for anyone doing Craniosacral therapy	As a student at a massage school which highly values craniosacral therapy I have been learning this therapy in class and recently attended the first course from Upledger Institute (CS1)   For anyone interested in taking CS courses from the institute this is required reading for the class (first 6 chapters).  After attending the class and using these techniques in clinic I am thrilled by this hands on, educational and technique perfecting book.<br />This is not meant for people just wondering what Craniosacral therapy is (try 'Inner Physician and You' or \\"Touchstone for Health\\" if you want an easy, interesting intro of case studies and experiences) but more for a therapist (liscensed or not, anyone who is actually interested in PERFORMING the work) to use as a text book.  It is absolutely written as such, but for someone like me who had learned it at school, and sometimes struggled with the theory and study and knowledge behind it. it is an amzing read.  You will learn hand positions, suture release techniques, 10 step protocol, direction of energy, and so much more.  If you think this may be a therapy you are adding to your practice then I recommend this book highly. It is  presented with the assumption of the reader fluent in anatomical terms and familiar with CS history.	2003-03-10
US	46704336	R2CJ5TE69KHNMW	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Lovely writing of heartful tales...	I just finished The Girl in Hyacinth Blue- and I loved the time I had reading this interesting, heartfelt, and nicely written little novel.  The type text was a very easy read size, so I just flew through the pages.  The story pulls you through, even causing you to hesitate and figure out how this amazing painting, at the point of near destruction in the first chapter, slowly traces it's roots right back into the home of Vermeer as he paints this amazing girl (his daughter) which was immortalized and fantasized through the inheritance of this picture.<br />I am no history or art buff, although I enjoy both, and so I can not support or destroy the history portrayed in this novel at all, but to me as I read, the validity didn't seem to matter.  As the painting is passed on in the amazingly tragic and amazingly simple lives of the book you see longing and wonder, dreams and realities, and the affect these dreams have on us and those around us.  The writing is beautiful and honest, yet simple and true.  <br />While I love giving 5 stars where deserved, I am picky on my personal likes in a book.  I do not like too many loose ends to wonder about later, but more- a book that ties things to together yet sticks to you anyway- this book will stick, but there are few little situations that aren't answered.  This very well may have been the intent of Vreeland, to keep your imagination churning, but for me it is not my favorite element of style, thus the lack of one star.  Overall, though, this is a great read and a great recommend- I have told many of my friends who enjoy reading- &quot;Don't pass this one up-&quot;<BR>It is definitely worth the read.	2002-12-06
US	46704336	RLVMKNX89V12D	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Beautiful and terrible wrapped into one....	The novel The Lovely Bones is crafty, well written, even funny at times, but don't be naive and dive in unknowingly.  While the story, told by the dead after being raped and murdered Susie, revolves around a mourning family and an odd serial killer you will have those un-nerving details unfold that will be a bit uncomfortable for some.  <br />I could not put this book down once I began it, and my husband had me read some of it to him, then we would discuss the strange things going on and the way things were coming together.  While it is described as a 'coming of age' novel, this is done by proxy through Susie's living sister.  I have to admit, parts of this book ripped my heart up, but that is what makes it so amazing.  You feel every emotion, fear, happiness, love, sympathy, anger- it is all there without feeling extremely HEAVY.  If you read a lot, and can handle a bit of gore, I suspect you will like this book, pass it on, and discuss it for many days to come.  The ending really ties things together, I think, in a nice, but not too perfect, way.  <br />If you are in a book club, and your members can handle a bit of darkness packed with awesome writing, do not pass this one up.  <BR>If you are a bit of a bibliophile (like me) and love to buy, read, collect and re-read books, this might be a fun one to add to your shelf.	2002-11-26
US	46704336	RUV7Z6AG2PQ97	074341134X	204129885	True to Form: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another hit for Berg....	I loved the first 2 books about Katie (Durable Goods and Joy School)and excited to see a third.  While I read all 3 I got the sweet feel of reading and life in my pre-teen years, but with an adult writing it there is also a mature hindsight feel and almost sympathy for the kids we all used to be.  I even think mom's could read this and pass it on to their daughters of this age, it would open amazing discussions (parental communication, friends and loyalty and of course, sex and it's consequences) and show choices and the path they take you on.  While I really believe the second of the trilogy (Joy School) was my own personal favorite, this book is still great.<br />Who else like Berg can write the quirky and touching observations that women and girls feel, our relationships and differences with the men in our lives, and our struggle in constantly figuring out who we are. One paticular line I loved is when Katie cries for all that is going on her life and notes- \\"sometimes the feelings inside are so overwhelming that  our body has to agree with tears..\\" boy, can I relate!  Anyway you will get many great lines like that throughout the entire book of katie and her friends (classic struggle between the popular, rude ones or good, geeky one) and her family (remembering her passed before mother and forging on with her difficult father) and terms she deals with in more issues.<br />One note- you can read this and very well enjoy it if you have not read the other 2 books.  If you are interested in the themes in this book, do not hesitate if yo haven't read the others, you will still get it and will notmiss out at all.  <br />That being said I give it 4 stars for great writing and observations, but due to a somewhat slow plot ( i'm not really sure it needs more, but yet I love a book with that added POW!) I am holding back on one star.<br />  If you've read and enjoyed Berg before- grab this one!	2002-11-26
US	46704336	R16VHPGSRAIXYO	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fresh idea with a guilty feel.....	What a great idea I think the authors had!  Rip the cover off the high class, fast paced, butt smoozing world of the rich.  I had to hold out reading this due to studies, but finally I had to get it!  I really ripped into this one quickly, loving the secrets \\"Nanny\\" (our girl's name) dishes on her former and previous employers.  (Forner's names are Mr. and Mrs. X, so it really feels top secret!)  But my pace did slow down as the repitition of craziness set in. I will need to be copmpletely honest here, though, and maybe my perspective as a mother (stay at home mom, aside from part time school) has tainted this novel for me, but what unfolded was utterly depressing !<br />Yes yes yes, I will not deny, there are hilarious moments and funny lines, but this really shocked me!  The way these people treat there nannies and the things they expect of them just absolutely blew me away!  So yes, while I was a bit disgusted (I will never look at those skinny, well polished, super rich moms the same) the book  still felt like a guilty pleasure.  A sneak peek in the lives of those who do not live like I do, a voyuer-istic feel of hmmmmm.....now I know!<br />Be prepared to read nothing but nannying in this book.  While the authors do give Nanny a life (a weak attempt at romance and school life, I thought) they do not expound as much as I would have liked on the areas other then nanny duties.  That much being said you are prepared to read what this book has in store for you.  A romp of a ride on cruelty to nannies which is saddening, but never the less, surprisingly fun.  I think this book will be refreshing due to the fact that it is indeed different then anything you have read by the way of \\"babysitting\\" !	2002-10-03
US	46704336	R2E6EH5TUA780Q	0781734541	569495355	Review for Therapeutic Massage and Bodywork Certification (LWW Massage Therapy & Bodywork Series)	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Perfect review packed with information	This book gets 5 stars due to the fact it gives you what it says-major review info for national certification.  Loaded with information page after page including diagrams, defintions, text and review questions.  <br />My instructors were a little surprised to find out the previous 'bible' of certification review \\"The Guide\\" is no longer published as it was.  This book takes it's place, with all the information the Guide had, updated and condenesd in an easy to take format (compared to many others, including The Guide's large print text and spiral bound text book).  This book is smaller, will fit in any bag you tote around so you can study any and all the time.  It has earned all the praises of my instructors and has become a major core to our massgae cirriculum.  If you want to study for the National exams, or if you are already liscensed and need a simple, highly informative reference book to add to your library this would be perfect...	2002-09-17
US	46704336	R1LZXASBN8EMNW	0875161804	818876295	Touch for Health: A Practical Guide to Natural Health Using Acupressure Touch and Massage	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	A must have for your Massage Colection	I am currently enrolled in massage school, and because I love books so much I am thrilled when a new required book is added to the list.  As we are learning accupressure in our school, this book is a major reference point, as it is for most schools, I believe.  Yet the instructions and explanations are precise enough that anyone could use this book if they are interested in this work.  With a back ground in energy work or cranialsacral this will expand your knowledge immensely.  <br />My one and only hang up; I don't really care for the pictures.  While they are fine pictures of procedure, they seem to be taken from an original idea that happened in the 70's or something, and I feel it detracts from the modern, educational feel of the book, but in no way does it compromise the information- which is vast!<br />Also included are great protocol tips, an extensive bibliography and suggested reading list and good anatomy diagrams.  Information is presented in a nice sized text, in easy column format with room for highlighting and notes, if needed. As far as information and diagrams go, this book has everything you need for accupressure!	2002-09-17
US	46704336	R1KOMR3VH0BZ3V	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Amazing Work for avid Readers	If you do a lot of reading, and get tired of the same simple story which is told in an obvious fasion, then this book will be a welcomed change for you.  The writing style feels so classic, descriptive, and subtle.  No line of any story in these pages will be forced to you, many things are left up to your mind and imagination to fill in.  It is a nice refreshing shift, while the story is lined with dark undertones of family pain and horrible war time experiences, the writing style is not depressing in spite if it's content.  Much of the story also revolves around a young girl, and the consequence of her decisions and actions on an entire family, yet it in no way is a book for women alone.  Due to the style, and changing views of situations, everyone will feel pulled into the scene, and understand the price people pay for dishonesty.<br />You will follow several stories, both on the home front and on the war front (strangely the first was actually more intense for me, but this is a debated matter)and every aspect is wriiten with skill and style.  The author throws in what I believe to be as a &quot;twist&quot; in the ending, which is entirely up to the reader to intrepret.  I found this also very refreshing.  While reading all this praise you may wonder why I give it 4 stars instead of 5, and that's a great question.  For me personally, moments in the book ran a tad slow, not terribly, but enough that I can't rate it perfect, and sometimes the story moved to quickly on facts and events that I wanted to linger on, so again this is just a personal opinion. <br /> If you love true &quot;English&quot; writing in classic, restrained style, or if you simply want a well written story that will be unlike most you have read lately, this book will be a nice choice.  If you have friends that read and like to discuss books with you I can guarentee you will pass it on to them.	2002-09-06
US	46704336	R15B0ALABD9SYQ	0515127221	241381231	Sullivan's Island (Lowcountry Tales)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A fun, life teaching, southern tale	I am an east coast girl all the way, so at first it took me a minute to shift gears for this Southern style book.  It is a fun, easy read that also will teach you about the southern hospitality.  A friend and I had a discussion about how well Frank did portraying this, and laughed at all the Gullah and geechee references.<br />If you also grew up with this, (plus a little bit of racial conflict that the south knows so well) you will really enjoy this book. It wasn't my style as far as pace and humor goes, so I am holding back a little on the star rating, but my mom read this book and she found it just hilarious.  There are many funny situations and shockingly real moments as our herione finds out about her husbands affair, throws him out, and builds her new life.<br />She is also raising a teenage girl, and much of the book is her memories of being raised by a stern but loving African American woman as her mom melts away in depression.  There are many interesting situations in this book, divorce, dating, family life, losing weight, finding jobs, racial cruelty, and more.  If these sound interesting, with a twist if wacky humor to keep the book from being to heavy, then you will absolutely love this book.	2002-08-25
US	46704336	R1RA3XXTSL4TQ	0671004131	150861299	Wild	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Perfect historical romance	Let's face it, when you pick up a historical romance you want to be swept away.  You want to read it while the world swirls around you and not have to think too much.  You want the sex to be hot and not too unbelievable or strangely described, and you want the characters to have actual chemistry.  You will get all of that here.<br />While I usually read more 'book club' type fiction I found I needed the carefree fun of a romance this summer.  I got exactly what I wanted when I read this!  The chemistry is wonderful, Teleri is interesting and unafraid, and Roger is the smitten, changed man that I will fall for every time.  One super positive note; I hate it when in typical romances as soon as the couple realizes they are in love some \\"conflict\\" has to tear them apart for at least 50-100 pages.  I am happy to report Jill chooses a different path in the book, and I feel it kept in line with the upbeat, fun, lilting pace of the rest of her book.<br />What a deal if you buy it used, but even if you love to crack open the spine of a brand new book, and slip away into good, sexy fun, you will enjoy this book. I give it 5 stars because for it's genre, this is a great read, touching and funny and just dabbled with the right sexiness.<br />I have more Jill Barnett books on my list!	2002-08-25
US	46704336	R2MJR5L5IKUZK8	0679730524	548887309	The Chinchilla Farm	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	A little slow for my taste	If you enjoy a slower read this book might be for you.  I read &quot;Red Waters&quot; and was fascinated, so I decided to give this a try.  For me it was not the same, as I enjoyed the other book very much.  <br />The subject deals with a woman who was Mormon, but her and husband are not practicing.  They fall away from religion and get a divorce, and she leaves to try and find herself as she roams over California and Mexico.  If this subject matter sounds interesting to you then you could very well enjoy it more then I did.  The pace was a bit slow and many situations void of the emotional thunder I usually enjoy in a book.  <br />However, not everyone likes what I do, so thus the suggestion of interest.  <br />If you are anxious to try this author, or interested in unorthodox Mormon fiction, then I suggest &quot;Red Water&quot; which Freeman takes an unapologetic and sacreligious look at polygomy, the churches early practice of plural marraige.	2002-08-25
US	46704336	RHB6R3K8IIUHD	0679437460	350305948	Ordinary Life: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great reading without the commitment....	What a fun time I had reading this book.  I actually pulled my husband in and read a story to him and he loved it.  If you have enjoyed Elizabeth Berg in the past don't pass this one up!  It is everything you love about her strectched into many characters, stories and settings.<br />I actually picked this up and dove in so fast I didn't realize it was short stories, thus I moved into the second chapter and was a little confused until I flipped back and read the cover.  Oops!  But I loved the fact that I could read one or more stories when I had time, then put it away for a bit.  I read it on vacation and that was perfect, because there was no remembering what happens from chapter to chapter.<br />Elizabeth Berg delivers in her true to women style with honesty and tenderness.  You will end up relating with someone definitely in this book because there is so much to see and read, but yet the underlying truth of human frailities lingers with each story you read.  Great for a book club to discuss and dissect!  If you have read &quot;Pull of the Moon&quot; by Berg then you will especially appreciate one story in here, a husbands response to a wife and her need for a sabatical from there marriage.  <br />I applaud Berg for her storytelling talent and real life pain and joy she flawlessly delivers time and time again.  If you like to be touched a bit, observe the joy in life and even sometimes be a bit cynical, then this book will be just your style.	2002-07-07
US	46704336	R1QO4FR9401BS3	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A tear jerker that have you hugging your kids....	I have never really been interested in James Patterson's other books.  I tend to enjoy chick books, packed with emotions and issues for women.  That being said I can tell you, this book does not disappoint.  I was drawn in, reading late into the hours of the night, and then running to kiss my kids as they slept and I tearfully finished the book.<br />You will watch as the lives of four people mix and mesh in an unusual way.  One woman, going through a rough time with her lover, reads the diary of another women, the former wife of this same lover as she writes it to their child.  Sound confusing?  It isn't at all, and Patterson is good at delivering the unexpected twist here and there to keep you wanting to turn the pages.<br />If you like books that are sad at times, but thrilling at others, this is the book for you.  If you need to read something to end your burnout on parenting and appreciate your family this will do the trick.  Read it with a box of tissues close by.. and enjoy the little moments within (&quot;....if I'd have known how great your father was going to be I would have run right into his arms...&quot;).  It is packed with this warm fuzzy stuff.  Enjoy!<BR>The only reason I gave it only 4 stars is because the writing isn't necessarily unuasual or WOW but still good enough that I can recommend this book highly.	2002-06-14
US	46704336	R3RND3YDWFFHWG	0743225325	715979019	Good Harbor: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Perfect for an easy yet touching read	While I did not like the Red Tent due to a personal conflict with subject matter, I adored Diamant's writing style.  I was excited to give her another try.  This was a complete opposite of Red Tent, in that I adored the story, but found the writing very mediocre.  It is not a bad read, in fact I enjoyed this story so much I read it quickly and intensely, but it is very light in lyrics and dialogue, much un-like her previous novel.<br />Joyce and Kathleen meet by chance and hit it off immeadiately.  You as a reader are so excited for their friendship and honesty in such matters as marriage, breast cancer, raising children and religion.  While the dialogue wasn't earth shattering, certain lines were poignant and honest and as a women reader I so appreciated that.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who would like a quick but good story, and if you know anyone or you yourself are dealing with breast cancer this book sheds a great light on the sympathy card that society often plays.  I gave it four stars just because it was a fun book, easy to follow, and nice story line.  If you enjoy women's lit much like Elizabeth Berg this is perfect for you.	2002-04-23
US	46704336	REHB2PJ3V1IT0	0345439104	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	So much more than you're everyday read....	While I am not usually one for a whole lot of sequential jumping Schwartz uses it in this novel to her advantage.  She grabs you at once with the lurking thought of Amanda's dear sister Ruth's death, and plays on it like a small background tune while the story unravels.  You read from different perspectives, through various present and past scenes, and you will literally picture the scene the author portrays for you. Family secrets, hushed affairs and lost siblings will twist and turn the plot at the perfect pace.<br />Please keep in mind as you buy this book, it is not a \\"happy ending\\" feel good kind of book. ...  But it is very provoking, deep, and even subtle in the story, giving your mind the chance to figure out and conclude and wonder about these amazing characters.  I think I even haven't  figured out all the details yet, but that's okay, this book isn't one you read and forget.<br />  It would be great for a book club, because discusions will follow with whomever you know who has read it.  While this book isn't exactly on my list of favorites,( I think because the overall tone is on the depressing side,) I have no trouble recommending it to someone who likes to read good writing that is different then the usual read.	2002-04-08
US	46704336	R2V56TVU5QIRLQ	0385265700	836824873	The Book of Ruth	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A beautiful and Haunting story	I have  only 2 criteria for what I think to be needs when I rate a book. 1- An interesting or very great plot  2- Written very well.   For me this book had both, more of the second, and just enough of the first.<br />Ruth is hard to figure out sometimes, she wants to be wild, seems to be low class, but in her own way has a touch of refinement.  While living with her mother, who prefers her brother, feelings of doubt and self hate are present.  As we follow her journey we read what is so beautifully written, at times I wanted to underline passages for later reference.  I was smitten with Jane Hamilton's writing style, almost poetic at moments. You will watch Ruth grow, fall in love with a strange, perverted man, and eventually become a mother herself.<br />One word of caution, a gruesome and shocking ending will grip you. For me, I literally had to set the book down for a while just to breathe. You will not forget this ending or book.  For the next few weeks I looked at my family in a different light of appreciation.  As you turn the last page you will find Ruth in a bizzare way living out a childhood dream mentioned earlier in the book.  I can't wait to read the latest by JAne Hamilton.  If you have enjoyed her writing, or if you like to savor beautifully writtten words and can stomach a tough and bloody ending, this book can not be missed.	2002-04-03
US	46704336	R2X73YYZKAKR3T	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Seriously Unforgettable....	This book is exactly as my title says....unforgettable.  Once you start this book you will probably not put it down much until you are finished.  The story moves well, with many strange twists and turns that you will not have predicted.  <br />Wally Lamb is not bad as he writes the tale from a woman's point of view (however we meet her her in her troubled youth and go from there)and goes through life trying to find herself.  I sort of wondered as I read it if Oprah picked it for the major weight issues and abusive remnants of this girl's life.  Oprah tends to go for that, and this is no exception.  You will read along through rape,masturbation, mean roomates, strange men and old ladies, even (for me the most distutbing) a lesbian scene depicted with an overweight dominating dorm keeper.  That said you are prepared with what thte book has to offer as it leads you to your somewhat triumphiant, in it's own way, ending.<br />I simply can not find the ability to give it a higher rating because the whole time I read it I felt dirty. I have had a hard time recommeniding it to others, but then again I read a very different variety of books then my friends around. I also was not exactly stupified by the writing. It was not bad by any means, but I just don't remember reading any of those 'grab you' phrases or sentences that seem to win me over to a book even if I don't like the story line.<br /> If you want to be sucked in to an amazing, although depressing, story at times, then this will not dissappoint you.   I also believe better informed is better prepared, and personally I wish I had been just a bit more informed of the subject matter within. But if you do choose to crack the pages of this book, especially if you are a Wally Lamb fan, be preapared to remember it for a while.	2002-04-03
US	46704336	R2Z4XV84FV74ZE	0345435168	878470234	Open House: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A true "women's" read	I love Elizabeth Berg, her quirky observations and unabashed honesty are refreshing.  I have read, at last count, 5 of her novels, enjoying all of them, but this is my favorite.<br />You will join in with our leading lady as she tries to cope with the new divorce of her husband, but is sure her loneliness will drive her back to him.  She decides for the benefit of money and company she will rent out a room or two in her home.  Berg paints fun, different characters which we learn from, love, and sometimes dread.  I think most touching to me were the small motherly observations of realizing her son is growing up all to quickly....<br />I will tell you this much about the ending; it is a nice \\"feel good\\" ending that satisfies if you have connected with the charaters in any way (which I did).  This is surprising if you are used to reading other Oprah picks-she usually draws toward gloom and doom, but this is not that. I found this to be a very easy read, flowing and light without being shallow.  I think it is a great \\"women's read\\" and would make an excellent book club choice.  I can not complain about any aspect of the book, and this is why I gave it 5 stars.	2002-03-26
US	46704336	R39AFZCZS1OXOO	0345438329	46292343	Big Stone Gap: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fun, family issues, read !	I too, would give this 4 1/2 stars if possible, be cause it was just this side of a perfect read.  I picked up this book without knowing anything about the story or the author, and sometimes that is the best way to go.  I was thrilled, and acutually read this one quickly.  It wasn't exactly an intense read, in fact much of the book is filled with many small town, small people, details, but that is what added to it's charm.<br />I found Ave Maria to be fun, kind, and honest, while maybe even a bit slow on catching up with true love.  As she finds out the truth about her family and gives in to the real self she is her life begins to unfold and bring her true joy.  A rounding, circle of life like ending always satisfies me, and you get that here as she sits back and learns to enjoy the life she has.  <br />I was also happy to see the Ballantine book circle questions and author interview at the end, because I read it with my book club.  I will add that everyone of us enjoyed the book.  It is a simple, beautiful novel.	2002-03-26
US	46704336	R2MUYZB6GKBTGM	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	3	3	4	N	N	For  a Bible believer, this is tough to swallow....	Now don't be offended by what I have to say.  I actually first will praise highly the style in which Anita Diamant uses to write.  It reads very lyrical, prose like,  Very flowing in verse and I thought, beautiful.  If this is simply what you want in a book then read this!  However.....<br />As a woman who believes in religion, reading the Bible while growing up and learning of the stories, this book was a bit too much.  I realize that Anita took much fictional freedom while painting the picture she is portraying, but for me many of the light handed comments and references to sexuality, including beastiality and masturbation, etc, were simply not the stories I wanted embedded upon my mind for these religious stories I loved as a child. (and still love)  Maybe that makes me idealistic, or even naive, but none the less it effects the enjoyment of this book.  Much time is given to the women and their menses (thus the name, the  \\"Red Tent\\" where they stay) and I will say in fairness, this is an iteresting read.<br />For those in my book club who were not, so to speak, Biblical fans, this book was very enjoyable.  For the rest of us it seemed to tread just a bit too much on what is possibly sacred, and very unknown ground. Of course there may be truth to some of what she chooses to portray, but it was a tainted subject for me.<br /> I feel I must add however, I am excited to read more by Anita Diamant, mostly with the faith that her writing style, given a different subject matter, for me would equal a perfect read.	2002-03-24
US	46704336	R36LDMXNSC0LIC	0425168700	890485903	Fortune's Daughter	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Needed just a bit of Pep.....	This happened to be my first Alice Hoffman novel read.<BR>I can agree with the other reviews which are tired of weak women in novels, because you surely get that here.  But you will also get the story of Rae (unmarried but still strangely loyal) and Lila (a strange depressed woman) and how there lives mix and mingle, because frankly I never saw any great relationships anywhere in this book.  <br />While the writing in and of itself was not bad at all, I got a little bored of the dream sequences we are given, most very meta-physical and &quot;witch&quot; like, to get to know what is going on for the characters instead of true life.  I also tired a bit of a strange conjured up 'spell child' which you never know if it is real or imagined by insanity. There is a lot of mystical magic woven into this story giving it a very surreal feel.<br /> This being said I am not turned completely off by Alice Hoffman, I am going to read another book before making my call, but unless you are paticularily interested in tea leaf reading or adoption issues, this may not the best book to begin your Alice Hoffman journey with, either.	2002-03-21
US	46704336	R3NNJC1V08I94M	1573459321	254853254	No Doubt About It	Books	5	26	30	N	N	For Sheri Dew fans, this is a must!	If you have seen Sheri Dew speak and enjoyed it at all, you will love this book.  Written exactly true to the form in which she speaks, this book is packed with scripture references, stories from her past and present, and comforting words and insights.<br />This book is written in a way that as you read it you seem to hear Sheri's voice saying the words.  It flows nicely from topic to topic as she touches on strengths of the LDS gospel and also challenges you to find your knowledge and testimony of these as well.<br />While I enjoy reading fiction, and not usually LDS fiction, I found this book refreshing and full of hope,without being to &quot;deep&quot; or intense, perfect for curling up with on a Sunday afternoon.  It would make an EXCELLENT mother's day gift because it is targeted toward a woman audience.  Sheri Dew is also sensitive to the women of the church and world who are not mother's, and as always she draws them into her fold as well.  I give this book 5 stars because if you are looking for true inspiration in Sheri Dew form, here it is, page after page.	2002-03-21
US	46704336	R19ELT38JCELH0	0385722109	660348741	Hotel World	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Dizzied with Amazement !	This book is a true ride that you will in no way soon forget.  As the first chapter, even the first page, unfolded I knew this would be something special. First experiencing the ghost world as felt by Sara you will be thrilled to feel the simple things around you, as a living being.<BR>Then you will fall into the other worlds of those around her, those there as she died, and others in their lives.  Sometimes this is a confusing ride, but it is so well written that you won't mind one bit. <BR> Jokes flow in and out of the story, puns and plays on words that will send you smiling in the midst of the tragedy also amaze.  I was simply stunned with how effortlessly Ali Smith seemed to do this, even tying things, in her own strange way, together in the end as you seem to witness the circle of life and it's seasons.<BR>  This is the book to buy if you want a new voice that sees things in a new way and writes them in a way entirely of her own.  The lack of quotations always takes a bit of adjusting, but for me the only distraction was Ali's unapologetic and excessive use of the notorious F-word.  I found it a bit bothersome and had it appeared a few less times (maybe one hundred or so) I could have probably enjoyed the book a bit more and given it the coveted 5 star rating.  Buy this one, you will pass it around for years to come (and definitely read it for inspiration before ever writing anything of your own)	2002-03-20
US	46704336	R1WGK3SIIGNLNV	0380784300	511580601	A Writer's Notebook: Unlocking the Writer Within You	Books	5	52	55	N	Y	Great Inspiration for All Ages	While this book is written for a Young Adult audience, I just love reading about writing (of course hoping to jump in someday and do it) and this is a very good book to get you going. <br /> Fletcher takes you step by step into the hows and whys of creating and keeping a Writers Notebook, and discusses the birth of great ideas from little notes on life.  He also touches on great tips like writing with honesty, including about things that hurt the most. <br /> While I believe this to be an inspiring book for all (I now have 2 notebooks for my writing observations) I see it as an impressive gift, along with a small nice notebook, of course, for that little someone in your life who  may have the gift to see, and write, life as it is to them.  If you enjoy the idea of writing your self, this is a great place to start.	2002-03-20
US	46704336	R2TTOW99TAEFNX	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	What is all the hype about???	I am really throwing myself out on a limb when I say I don't see what all the buzz is on this book.  EVERYONE has it on their lists, and I dove in full force.  I was a little disappointed; the book was a bit long and wordy, repeating many descriptions repeatedly, and my main reason for giving the book only 3 stars is because of a writing rule most know: the ending must stay true to the character, and in numerous cases this doesn't happen here. I won't give details in case of spoiling your fun, but a handicapped twist and controlling husband simple \\"moving on\\" will clue you inas to a few un characteristic \\"twists\\". This is well written most of the time, and if you are into learning about the congo and African Culture (which was fascinating) Kingsolver does a beautiful job of this, but overall I can not give it more stars due to the inconsistancies I saw.  I may also mention that in my book club, about 90% of us were disappointed with this novel.  I will say though, it is written better then many things you see on the best seller list, so if you need a change, this may suit you well.	2002-03-19
US	46704336	RA76KMVC38IV4	0590897985	603078590	The Music of Dolphins	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great insightful read	Not only did I love the name Mila, but I loved the girl, sometimes dolphin, Mila.You will slip into her life after she is rescued by the human race, so to speak.  I will agree with some that the concept is a bit 'out there' but because of the excelent writing style, which changes as the character grows more inteligent, the plot works.  Don't pick this book if you are looking for a sugar coated happy ending, because it isn't here (while the ending may be argued again and again as to it's happiness)  But you will see deep and sometimes hurting observations on human lifestyle and feel the loneliness that we all feel sometimes.  Parents buy this book for your young adults but READ IT first.  You will not be let down, and oppurtunities for many discussions will follow.  Also keep in mind a rich knowledge of dolphins and their lifestyle is very interestingly woven into this incredible story. Once again, Karen Hesse does not disappoint.	2002-03-18
US	46704336	R146MGGCLALKA2	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A light, super fun read !!	Rebecca is a woman after my own heart.  Never pass a SALE sign, always justify the purchase, and when all else fails SHOP SHOP SHOP.  When you pick up this book be prepared for the first 100 pages or so of detailed shopping.  For me it was fun, but my sister found this a bit annoying. Then the money making antics come in, sadly I believe many of us can relate to these hilarious get rich quick desperate measures. And I am happy to report our sweet rebecca learns and grows and comes out winning in many ways, with even a twist of romance thrown in to add to the fun.  I loved this book, and never regretted buying it, it is one I'll probably pull out most summers and enjoy again. Written in true English humor and form (much like Bridget Jones, but for me more enjoyable)this is a light read and a good time.  If you love shopping, shop this one right into your bag!	2002-03-18
US	46704336	R2NVRJPNAWD7FV	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Little Bit of story in a Whole Lot of Words	This plot is one I would normally go for; high school girl raped, town and family in denial, family falls apart.  Sounds good enough, but you are going to need a lot of time on your hands to get through that plot.  I trudged ( and even skimmed)parts of this book.  It started with a bang, I was in and feeling the charcters also, but it seems to plataue and even fall flat here and there.  I was disappointed especially to see the mother, who seems to really come across as a determined women, crumple and disolve under her husband's misery.  I kept waiting for something big to happen ~ revenge,  scorching pain, new found triumph ~ANYTHING and it just never did.  It is not a total disappointment, Joyce Carol Oates has talent, but I think this same story could be retold, minus 150 pages or so, and be much more enjoyable. If you are a fan of the author, or maybe have a special interest in the subject matter, this book will be more enjoyable.  For avid readers who like a well written story to fall into (like myself) it didn't quite hit the mark.	2002-03-18
US	46704336	R13K35GUHHNBGG	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A tragic Must read Page turner!	Please note right off; this book is not for the weak in heart.  It is not a skip in the woods happy go lucky book.  That being said I will say what it is-it is a triumph in writing. While the point of view shifts you will be intensely involved in what starts as a small dispute over a house, and spirals into a murderous tornado.  The backround on the characters is amazing- detailed, and very believable.  As I drove around town I believed I ran in to whom looked to be the characters in this book, it seemed so real. I was immeadiately sucked in and couldn't put it down.  I have shared this book with many friends and family as well, and while the story is dark, we all agree, it is an incredible ride.  I was shocked to find myself even shedding tears at the end---I am not even sure who I was shedding them for. After you read this book, you will know what I mean.	2002-03-18
US	46704336	R21KB5F9U4ZJPR	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	41	45	N	N	An inside peek into history and art	Griet was a subtle, quiet and sometimes submissive girl.  You will follow her as she tries to bring honor and money to her family.  While blessed with a strange beauty that men take to she still seems unaware of her power as a women, perhaps because the women she lives with as servant are so demanding and cruel.  This book is a very subtle read.  I read it with a book club and the different points we picked up on were amazing.  If you're looking for a book to discuss, this one will fit the bill.  Never offensive, always touching, sometimes even leaving you begging for soemthing more to happen between this girl and the people in her life, paticularily her master Vermeer, this is a great story.  Much detail is given to the paintings and the manner in which they were painted, so I recommend you read with a book on Vermeer close by. You will learn something about art, human nature, and even a bit on the historical class structure.	2002-03-18
US	46704336	RQZ097UVLHE5R	0786812095	382265458	A Time of Angels	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Open your mind and heart to the enemy....	With all of the recent events our country has been through I believe this book should be read in classrooms everywhere.  Taking place during WW2 you are drawn into the difficult, poor and often painful life of a young girl.  As she loses loved ones to the plague, she herself is spared and she believes she may have seen an angel.  Circumstances lead this young jewish girl to live with an old German man who the town shuns, but she learns to love.  I learned that every war has two sides, and tolerance is the key.  The young girl ends up happy in the end through small bits of fate in her favor, but I believe there were many different endings that would have worked for the girl - just like us.	2002-03-06
US	46704336	R1QWJ33FQX0PFA	0679886370	411811908	Stargirl	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quick and insightful read	When one of my best friends, a 4th grade teacher passed this my way she was very excited about it.  It can be tough to find decent books for these young~young adults.  You can buy this book with confidence that lessons will be learned about being yourself, following the \\"crowd\\", judging and loving others, and missing the chance of a lifetime.  That said you must know, the ending didn't satisfy my need to put the book down and I think I stared at the last page waiting for just one or two more paragraphs............they never came.	2002-03-04
US	46704336	RM1OOZP5J6Q2L	0671017330	744888434	Holding Out	Books	2	3	4	N	Y	A bit trashy for my effort	Now my review will really reflect my taste in books.  Jackie Collins, Olivia GOldsmith (etc) have never been my favorite reads.  While I can admit that they may be a fun guilty pleasure as you lay by the pool the time it takes to read for the minimal plot is not a fair trade.  Such style we read in Holding Out.  Before buying be prepared for some explicit scenes (not exactly romantic but definitely HOT) and for a main character who is so stuck on herself I was actually embarassed for her.  The dialog is a bit elementary and I felt idealistic to portray the cool,rich characters in a smooth way, but for me it didn't work. Maybe you might feel differently if you like a more &quot;light&quot; read, but this is not really book club material. I did get a laugh out of flipping to the Author photo in the back cover, who surprise surprise looks amazingly like the &quot;heroine&quot; of the book with their lives played out so much the same.	2002-03-04
US	46704336	R2P2D3HR7TILS8	0451196856	660269339	The Most Wanted	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Definitely worth your time and money!	If you are looking for a good book to curl up with, read on the road, or simply sweep you away this is it!  I really loved this one, have bought it a number times to share with friends.  I found it much more engrossing than Deep End of the Ocean, and while I liked that book also I cannot recommend it with the confidence I can this one.  You will get caught up in caring for a young girl, being swept away as she loses her virginity, watch her grow smarter and stronger, and cheer for her and her lawyer.  Very fun, perspective writing so you can get in the heads of different personalties and get a good perspective.  This is well worth it!	2002-03-04
US	46704336	R2RQGS7K8ALMI9	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Must for the girls in all of us	I have realized that many young adult fiction novels surpass most adult reads.  This is no exception  to that thought.  Once I shifted my mindset to the script like format this book is written in, I soared through it.  While our main gal here speaks almost nothing to a soul around her (it seems like no one even notices!) her perception is right on the money.  Sometimes funny, sometimes painful, always honest observations of High School life are noted in her perspective.  You are so happy for her strength in the end, you will want to shout!  I read this in one afternoon, gave it to my mom, then my sister who also ripped through it.  It is just that good.  But then again, I am a sensitive girl who delights in honest \\"chick books\\" which seem believable and uplifting.  This is one of those books.	2002-03-04
US	46704336	R37EK16SA0ILX7	0375420924	522247700	Red Water: A novel	Books	3	7	17	N	N	Interesting, but disappointing also	I am a practicing Mormon, and while many of my religious peers would never be caught reading this type of book, since most of the LDS beliefs she presents as she 'bashes' them, I couldn't wait to dive into it.  I was very disappointed in the fact that she gives so little information about the actual massacre, every thing she gives is so 'if-y' and, even if done fictitiously, I kept waiting to read more about the massacre, maybe from the women who dis-robed the bodies, or even more from the trial, anything to shed light on the subject to which I thought the book was about. Instead you will read much about (what the author portrays as) a sexually obsessed family and the need for their husband's approval.  It was interesting, although again I will say, not at all what I expected.  Let all readers beware it is a work of fiction, and in no way portrays Mormon doctrine as it is lived today.	2002-02-24
