US	46758986	R38OD0XAHQIXGE	1561631760	677772896	A Night in a Moorish Harem, Vol. 2	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Victorian Erotica in Graphic Novel Form	Illustrated by six different artists: three black and white illustrators who do okay, one crayon scrawl quality color chapter, one okay colored chapter, and one colored chapter that's cleanly drawn but seems amateurish (art school student - some skill but no flavor). George Herbert's book is an 1890s era (or so) Victorian Erotica peice; which means explicit sex was it's only real interest. The ladies recount their \\"first times\\" and \\"first loves\\" - and five are Eurpoean dolls. Indeed, it's a selection of women from around the world, not a moorish Harem in itself. And they come across as ordinary women with unusual tales to tell. My main interest was the quality of artwork, and the lower quality of some of it (the colored versions were even amateurish in places) left me wondering if the second edition would be decent - and is probably why I've never seen a repeat of the concept. Besides the limited scope of the subject matter. Rather than grossly graphic, the sex is often staid and somewhat more classically illustrated.	2003-03-22
US	46758986	R1EM8CMIWKXM76	1931514941	337782134	Love Hina, Vol. 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Quick comparison to the anime	Without a doubt someone will come along with a review comparing the anime and manga and trashing one or the other. I saw the anime first, happened onto the manga. I enjoy them both and am glad they are both available; they have the same characters and many of the same events, but things happen differently (or not at all) in one or the other. For me, that's a treat: there's nothing more futile than reading a book and seeing a movie that go hand in hand (why bother if they are the same?) - but by using different takes on the same general plot the two formats provide variety. I enjoy being able to get a double dose of a decent romatic comedy. As far as plots go, read the other reviews - they handled them well enough.<br />As someone who enjoys both reading manga and viewing anime, I can only say that the best thing for fans of the series is to invest in both. Of course, readers will prefer the manga, viewers the anime (and many people whichever one they are exposed to first), but there are those of us who prefer all we can get in both fields.	2003-01-27
US	46758986	R2FJLGZYOUW8T1	0786709219	928792441	The Mammoth Book of Illustrated Erotica (Mammoth Books)	Books	3	37	42	N	N	Erotica Notica: This is nude photography not erotica...	Erotica Notica<br />This is a wide selection of nude photography from a wide number of photographers. It's erotic only in the sense of naked women - a few photos have some sexual hints in a very PG-17 way, but otherwise the viewer has to be a pervert to think the majority are erotic (or be an immature heterosexual male who obsesses with  female nudity and looses control of their fantasies). <br />Subject matter depends on the photographers and is widely diverse:  the one most numerous theme is simply the naked woman facing the camera with nothing complex going on. Of the rest, some are of bondage, some body piercing, some non-nudes where the subject is naked skin of the back and buttocks (posture studies), some studies of the fall  of light across skin, and some are even clothed women. A few are costume shots. A few are explicit and one or two concentrates on female anatomy close-up. Unlike another collection I viewed, there's very little shock-jock ugly photo's. Given the number of photos, there is not a true majority of anything but naked women.<br /> Most models are professional female models - slender and attractive, with a few photos of less model-istic and more real women - who are still slender.  White women dominate; Negro and Oriental models are in the minority. A few ladies are older but none are really aged. <br />In other words, this is pretty much the same-ole style of \\"glamor\\" photography you'll find just about anywhere. The selection is diverse, as mentioned, but often lacks true imagination. While a lot of people will find things they like and things they find silly and stupid (half the photos were silly to me), it also manages to leave out a lot of what may interest others.<br />Indeed, a good deal of the shots are dull, dark, and sometimes smudgy. Artsy to the point of being ruined. And of course, only black and white or single-toned.<br />The current price makes it quiet a nice deal for anyone who likes nude photography. But, I myself was still left hungry for something pretty, creative and original -- thus it's also liable to be a waste of money for many people. The one thing I will repeat: this is erotica only in the sense of being pictures of naked women, not in the sense of being sexually explicit pictures of men and women - or even  women being sexually suggestive.	2002-11-08
US	46758986	R1L0UMOO2DZPE2	1569715718	990638620	Sergio Aragones' Groo: Library	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Tales of Groo the most devestating bumbler ever	Groo Library<br />Groo gets involved in his usual mayhem and manages to displace his swords several times - Ruferto exercises in a little hero worship and fantasy, and like a faithful dog that's smarter than his master he manages to haul Groo out of the pit's he digs for himself. Groo get's involved in a scheme to &quot;liberate&quot; the most valuable sapphire in the world; the Minstrel, Arcadio the warrior, Arba and Dakarba, sister Grooella, the Sage and more fools who've never learned to keep away from Groo get involved in machinations. Groo attempts more gainful employment and serving as a village protector he manages to bring the village to destitution. The very last page introduces none other than Chakal - the warrior gal Groo has heart-eyes for!<br />Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	RU58XERX39BRL	1569713855	115581189	Groo: Houndbook	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A man and his dog (who's smarter than he is)	Groo Houndbook<br />As should be obvious, this is where Groo the most feared barbarian in the world (feared by everyone who knows his name and face!) meets his trusty sidekick Ruferto, a dog smarter than he is. Fleeing a pampered life into the chaotic life that Groo brings about, Ruferto and his new companion encounter Pal and Drum, the schemers who cut an arms deal with Groo. Of course, they've never learned that the best deal to cut with Groo is to RUN FOR THE HILLS! Groo gets wealthy through no fault of his own and winds up penniless as usual.<br />Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R2383GLTUC1X87	1569716129	332996333	Sergio Aragones' Groo: Mightier than the Sword	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Beware of Groo!	Groo Mightier than The Sword<br />An Oriental king is dyeing on his bed and lamenting he has never seen the pleasure of Groo's destruction, so he sets his three sons out to fulfill that last dying wish with his empire as the reward. Detestation results as the events foment the birth of the newspaper and the lies which are printed as a result throw everything into chaos. Groo only has to slay a few armies instead of his regular diet of slaying everyone - the newspaper is so handy in creating chaos. For those who know him not, Groo is the most feared creature on earth: he's a devastating swordsman and as dumb as a rock, hence anyone who knows his name flees at the sight of him. Some short takes of Ruferto included in the end.  Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R2UOJPNPPH4I2P	1569714789	644165167	Sergio Aragones Groo: The Groo Kingdom	Books	4	4	4	N	N	4 stars is for Groo fans	Groo Kingdom<br />Here we meet sister Grooella and Granny Groo, the proof that Groo's nature is inherited and that the thing worse than a bone-head barbarian warrior whom any intelligent creature flees from is an fat, old gypsy lady who uses him in various scams. Groo falls into her schemes, and after several tart little bilking jobs, he get's married and botches another marriage scam. Fed up, Granny sells him to a slave trader - who would never have bought him if he'd known who he was buying. Which becomes apparent eventually. Groo then decides to get some new clothes and as everyone knows calamity results. Groo get's his bare pink bottom spanked which caused some censors fits! (Oh, the horror of Groo's pink bottom on display!)  Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R1XGB4O59V4QT2	1569714622	320412028	Groo: Jamboree	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Assorted Grooish mayhem	Groo Jamborie<br />Having no central theme, these are various Grooish stories showing Groo going about his daily life in search of gainful employment and food. And causing mayhem everywhere he goes. Ruferto is lost briefly but is recovered. And then Groo sets upon a quest to impress a would be employer by recovering a copy of the glass vase he smashed. Of course most of these people don't know he's Groo - otherwise they'd never get involved with one of the dumbest and most dangerous creatures on earth.<br />Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R2L930I3HNCAN5	1569717567	104222177	The Groo Maiden	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Love and Mayhem	Groo the Barbarian's lady love Chakaal features in these episodes where despite her attempts to travel to the furthest place on earth to get away from him he's tracked her down. Chakaal is in fine form, defeating raiding female warriors from the sea. Groo is also in fine form, spoiling half her plans and coming up with a plan to save a village that works except the village doesn't need saving when he springs it - too late! Together they free a village of the terror of a resident giant spider and investigate a dragon hatchery scam. Chakaal manages almost with sentimental regret to get away from him in the end - or does she?<br />Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R12DMCV5V7J7G2	1569714304	473076664	Groo: Inferno	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Groo causing devestation as usual	Groo Inferno<br />In this collection there's a magic amulet that grants every wish which falls into the hands of Groo the Barbarian - OH MY GOD! From there mayhem erupts as various parties strive to gain control of the amulet or at best get it out of Groo's hands into anyone else's hands (anyone would be better than Groo!). As the introductory episode shows - Groo is the worse thing on earth to get involved with, especially when you confuse him! Included are the sorceresses Abra and Kadabra - oh, I mean Arba and Dakarba- , the sage and his dog with no name, the Minstrel, Arcadio the best warrior on earth, and assorted fools who've never learned that the best way to get anything out of Groo is to RUN AS FAR AWAY FROM HIM AS YOU CAN!<br />Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R21TU4HPCJ341L	1569712948	12294875	Groo: Most Intelligent Man in the World	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Groo Intelligent? Somethings wrong here...	Groo the Most Intelligent Man on Earth<br />The wandering Minstrel encounters one of the most bizarre things in the world: a region of people who hail Groo as the most intelligent person they've ever met. Knowing they've never met Groo if they believe that, he get's himself thrown into jail for hearsay. Arba and Dakarba the sorceresses get involved to find the miracle of Groo's intelligence and the sage is enlisted and here comes the scheming duo Pal and Drumm. In the end Groo saves the day, or did he? Was he or was he not the most intelligent man ever? Included are a few short takes featuring Ruferto.<br />Note: the printing quality is generally okay to very good for the series, but this is generally a collection for Groo fans and comic book fans. The binding on some of my copies is broken (these are soft backs) and the print is now and then not the greatest. As a fan, I bought every collection I could, and enjoy them despite this! Not though for long-term pristine collectors though.	2002-11-02
US	46758986	R2NYXW387XFY59	1590230043	550497534	Fair-Skinned Beauty	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Sex book with too much in-your-face closeups	This was also used for Bombshell Boobies (only the stories differ): Okay, I thought this was going to be pretty artwork (books like that exist - though rarely - like Manara's Gullivera). Instead, it's a pretty hum-drum sex book using too many close ups and unimaginatively drawn characters (who are techincally drawn okay but look dull) and quiet gross \\"flying fluids\\" exageration. The stories are the same-ole repressed male fantasy stories you can hear anywhere - although not as original (forbidden fruit gets stale) as some grass-roots stories. Boring. If not stupid. Erotic only to the lame. I own quiet a bit of plain-jane non-erotic mainstream manga and I can only say that there are far better artists with talent both in drawing and layout out there. Indeed, Japanese manga artists are some of the best illustrators I've run across - but not all of them.	2002-10-31
US	46758986	RK22AKGJ6T93	1590230035	298850965	Bombshell Boobies	Books	2	8	14	N	N	A sex book and little else	Okay, I thought this was going to be pretty artwork (books like that exist - though rarely - like Manara's Gullivera). Instead, it's a pretty hum-drum sex book using too many close ups and unimaginatively drawn characters (who are techincally drawn okay but look dull) and quiet gross \\"flying fluids\\" exageration. The stories are the same-ole repressed male fantasy stories you can hear anywhere - although not as original (forbidden fruit gets stale) as some grass-roots stories. Boring. If not stupid. Erotic only to the lame. I own quiet a bit of plain-jane non-erotic mainstream manga and I can only say that there are far better artists with talent both in drawing and layout out there. Indeed, even as far as sex matters go, tamer series get it better. In hopes of swaying, swinging breasted ladies flirting and laughing, I was disappointed in basically raw pornography.	2002-10-31
US	46758986	R16NOFHI7NADW	388243662X	418050112	Paolo Roversi: Nudi	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Not for the main stream crowd	Some twenty to thrity pages of washed out frontal nude shots of women set against a stark white backdrop, this is not for someone wanting plain pretty pictures of Playboy variety. There's often little variety in the poses (standing front, side and sometimes back, leaning over a little) and no action - on the other hand I found that very aspect accented the minute differences in women. Indeed, just glancing through it it's easy to see how wide a variety of body shapes and faces are presented - at least in subtle differences. Overall, for people who like \\"experimental photography\\", who are explorers of the obscure, who are willing to spend money on the unusual and risk loss, not necessarily for main stream nudie picture fans. If he branched out into a wider somatotypology (all these gals are thin model types) I might buy another, but for me this fulfilled all the interest I have in this style. See the provided front picture for what you basically get throughout.	2002-10-31
US	46758986	RP0H25EIKDB7T	1892041618	710242529	Realities	Books	3	4	24	N	N	Not very classical photos	Quiet a wide range of faked up \\"hand painted\\" photos, with subject varying from fat to slim, tall to short, male and female. I found some to be gross, some stupid, others interesting, some sexual, some quaint, mostly nudes but not always  - but overall none struck me as simply good looking pictures. This book is for explorers of photography more than anything else. If the book cover is available - that's actually a bit more than what you get. I took someone's claim of \\"classic\\" photos and the lounging woman holding a skull (nude female Hamlet) to mean revamping the good-ole, graceful and refined (sometimes naughtily refined) nude classics like Venus emerging from the sea, various Greco-Roman statues, and flappers in breast revealing gowns - instead, most of these are just \\"experimental\\" photos which owe only a muddied color look to being classic. Maybe classics for the photographer - not really classic photos. I wish the author would go ahead and revamp the old classics, providing a modern \\"French postcard\\" series of photos. Oh well, you can only wish and hope that some day someone will...	2002-10-31
US	46758986	R12RP7XSXBLX1I	1561632570	194394513	Just Bloomed: The Art of Boris Lopez	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Nice bit of pretty girl art	Nice bit of pretty girl artwork of Playboy caliber, sometimes they aren't even naked. Includes water color (see the cover) and pencil sketches. Good artist. But overall not much more variety than most other sources: all white 18-25 year old young ladies. Nice enough for a nude art collection.	2002-09-30
US	46758986	R1OYYDI5J58B3G	1561631701	881368191	Gullivera	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Sexy fun romp	Nice sexy, fun, romp that hit the exact spot I hoped for: pretty modern girl with a few days to school to enjoy goes on a ride on an spooky old ship, goes through Gulliver's travels quick and sexy. She's naked a lot; other times she's got pretty duds on. her old English flag shorty-shirt outfit is yummy. Not for prudes who \\"...like naked women but this was just too much..\\"  and not for fetish freaks and porn dogs; she doesn't have sex and the juices don't flow. (Well, actually fluids flow, in a case of fire fighting...) Fun and sexy naked girl but not too wild or dark. Erotica notica.	2002-09-30
US	46758986	R241UBE7GGJLLE	1561632244	151407117	El Gaucho	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Oridnary colonial soldiers story	If you expect a book about sex and people, this ain't it. This is pretty much just a story about soldiers in the wooden ships and muskets age, with some women thrown in for bonadage slave sentiment, with a few sex scenes - those mostly sordid. The art is okay. See his other titles for truely sexy books - Gullevera is a quick, neat, sexy, fairly clean romp for adults who like naked women but also enjoy women who aren't always naked.	2002-09-30
US	46758986	R2W0REMCPHX6W2	0789306468	584834590	Beautiful: Nudes by Marc Baptiste	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Wow, some good pictures on non-white women	These are some pretty good pic's of non-white women. Some are cluttered by artsy special effects (blurred focus and extreme close ups for example - yuk), but most are plain, easy photos of black ladies. A good nude need only show a woman for her own beauty and need not get all sick-headed artsy and ruin itself with \\"effects\\"; these do the job quiet well. There's variety and as the others have said, these are REAL women - don't buy it expecting a barrage of bubble-breasted blond Playboy playmates with black shoepolish smeared on. Lots are aesthetically beautiful; others are beautiful because they are women and not afraid of it.	2002-09-30
US	46758986	R1EBHTVZ057OEO	3822855340	885567580	Erotica 20th Century I (TASCHEN Icons Series)	Books	2	7	24	N	N	Improved artwork over what 17th, 18th, 19th century offered	Artork improves compared to the 17th-18th and 19th century collections, but it is still often ugly. The gems are few - but those are delicious. I went looking for some of the best artists to see if they had non-erotic works and can't find them. These few were able to sketch/paint people who looked real and maintain an artistic style. One man could run his work in any modern gentlemans magazine and people would wonder who this fabulous new sexy author was, he's that high quality.<br />Mostly, though, these are repulsively ugly or amateurish works. Picasso's erotica is nothing but the doodles of a bored kid in math class who fills a page with scribblings about genitalia; if you are a Picasso fan, they are true to his norm - but people who judge by quality will laugh. Non-Picasso fans can only laugh at his disturbed works as silly.<br />Either the editor chose the wrong artists, or maybe most of the people dealing in erotica have a sick viewpoint of sex. The one constant them that comes across is that these people think sex is ugly. (Only one or two refute the idea with pretty artwork.)<br />Which is what a lot of these are; bad drawings by sick people or at least presenting sick ideas of sexuality.<br />I've seen a lot of non-erotic nudes and I think overall the reason erotica does has had a bad name in many circles is that it is so poorly done as to give it an ugly reputation. Playboy and more hardcore sources overshadow the overall gloomy, ugly, often silly quality of these works. Indeed, Playboy is mostly respected for beautiful presentations of women; few people would respect the low quality of the grungy works shown here. Except art scholars who have a fad for the stuff.<br />Mostly this is a collection of ugly pictures about sex.	2002-09-27
US	46758986	R1L2EKAFEA185F	3822855677	520977526	Pin Ups (TASCHEN Icons Series)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Boring overall	This is for the pin-up artist fan and for anyone curious about the ages of yore. These aren't nudes - they are pretty much just pin-up paintings or little silly skits of women in bikinis or underwear or props hiding the vitals, looking and acting sexy, but coming over more like a housewife who thinks it's all silly. A modern bikini magazine with the models flirting their heat is far more sexy ... Overall: black and white pictures, pin-up covers. ... <br />Actually I found it interesting that one lady hammered together a scooter out of office furniture casters and wood; and Betty Paige is in a silly skit riding a scooter that looks like the ancestor of today's hot new inline aluminum crazes. ...<br />Mediocre. For the fans of older artwork and tame pin-up photos, and for photo buffs who like looking back into the past to see just how much like today people were back then - some things considered.	2002-09-27
US	46758986	R25BBSEMCFACNF	3822855359	543397386	Erotica 17th-18th Century (TASCHEN Icons Series)	Books	1	10	56	N	N	Art has gone a long way	Yuk. This rating isn't the fault of editors or such, but the criticism of someone who was interested in whether people of yore generated high-quality nudes of ladies of their age (I'm male, nude males don't interest me). If they did, they didn't make a living doing erotica. I wasn't interested in the erotic side of this (if you've seen it in one collection, you'll see pretty much all that's offered in others - it's quiet repetitive and boring and so unimaginitive that you can pretty much guess what the next generation will do... A parade of genitals and often some sick-statement art saying bad things about sex.).<br />The single-star rating illustrates an art critics dissappointment in the quality of the artwork. Women were almost always drawn like men with breasts, all muscles and heavy bodied. Art style has advanced greatly - I've seen and am a fan of many modern artists who's sketchings and paintings break my heart in their ability to render people as real (some of the prettiest of which are of normal, non-glamor model people!) An art apologist will state \\"But people of that era often viewed fat women as the eye of beauty.\\" That isn't what is wrong here; I've seen heavy women portrayed in realistic artistry and they are pretty. What is wrong is that the painters and etchers managed to render butt-ugly women! Literally, the paintings and drawings are just childishly ugly.<br />As a passing art scholar I learned a lot in buying this; the artwork is true-to-norm for the age (art has always grown and improved over the years), and varied, and for fans of the age would be great. But the quality of it based on pure true-to-life norms and beauty which a normal person would base it one is: it stinks. Look at later series and you will see a slow progression in the quality of artwork to the point where modern artists could drawn naked women who looked like real naked women. Not galmor girls, just real naked women! Indeed, if you've never seen it, check out some good art instruction books who use real people for models - it's impressive how a person doesn't have to be a glamor girl to be attractive. If they are presented in a quality piece of art, at least.	2002-09-26
US	46758986	R2RJRYVGV8NVF	3822855367	406012687	Paris-Hollywood (TASCHEN Icons Series)	Books	3	2	11	N	N	Nude women, plain and acting glitzy	Nothing special: these are nude women, mostly plain women, some are even far beyond the aesthetic elegance of slender, trim, shapely glamor models to be well padded women. Dressed for glamor and strutting sexy, but still just ordinary women - some are pretty,mind you, but lots were not young hotties. Black and white photos. Mostly shot in cramped quarters. Some are actually more original than a lot I've seen but the norm is \\"Wow, look, I'm a woman.\\" showing it all. In the end: interest for people like artists looking for more variety than the before mentioned skinny-busty-young pretty dolls that are the norm. Most modern bikini shoots offer more sizzle and exhibit more raw sex. Keep in mind this fellow worked during an age when Playboy was often criticized as porn' and Playboy and most modern men's magazines are far more racy - and in color. Not bad, but not a gee-wiz wow-gotta-have-it book either. I found the censorship (earlier pics were air-brushed to remove \\"offending\\" material) interesting and I didn't recognize any of the gals, so I wasn't hooked on any glamorous babes. Nice, interesting for men who aren't prudes about female nudes and like women of all types. Mostly European white gals, at that, which means (sigh) little overall variety. Will interst scholars of nude photography and nude fans who like all decent nudes a lot more than any other clique.	2002-09-26
US	46758986	R3RCPP6MV2NP5S	0439317452	595089094	How To Draw Manga	Books	4	44	65	N	N	Decent enough beginner's guide to characters	This is a SCHOLASTIC version intended for young anime/manga aspirants. It does an okay job going through the basics of drawing characters, then adds a little about setting and a couple pages about art supplies. Looking at it in terms of it being aimed at young kids, it works pretty well: the author patiently goes through the steps of drawing heads, adding expressions, buidling bodies, but doesn't bog down in the true technical details which might swamp a novice or young reader (like tones, and advanced technique).<br />Her own illustrations are all done in colored pencil, which lacks the glossy completeness of paints. Keep in mind though that this is a kids book; thus they are more likely to have colored pencils or crayons to use. And they won't be so intimidated by all those pretty professionally done illustrations which so few people tend to point out are actually done by TEAMS of people: penciller, inker, colorist, etc. By sticking to pencils alone, she shows what a person on their own can do. And her pencils are pretty good as it is.<br />In the end, I own a number of how-to-draw books and for the price I'm definitely glad I added this one to the collection. Her discussion (breifly) of short little \\"chibi\\" characters alone added a new dimension to what I'd already known. The only reason I didn't rate it as five stars (*****) is I tend to be conservative; most of the time I blow over high rating reveiws because they are usually stuff and nonsense. Not to mention this isn't a perfect book for anyone, although I enjoyed it.	2002-08-15
US	46758986	R7N2KEY2O9W35	0441691900	393471004	The Purple Pterodactyls (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Tales of the Occult in modern Days	Fifteen tales of the \\"occult\\" (supernatural), this book differs from many similar plots in that the author treats the events as if they are everyday and as such not some great melodramatic event. The main character (Woodrow Wilson Newberry) is a happily married, rather every-day-banker type who gets into various little pickles due to odd things that happen to him. The setting is modern day, from the USA to France to the South Seas and back; de Camp writes many science fiction and fantasy books, but these tales are more of the haunted house spook type. Without the crashing lightning and eerie gloom that stereotypes the genre.<br />Through \\"Balsamo's Mirror\\" the narrator travels back to the romantic 18th century to find the romance lacking. \\"The Lamp\\" shows that a god that sank the continent of Atlantis isn't one to irritate while on a private little island. \\"Algy\\" is a home grown Loch Ness monster that falls prey to a strange incident. \\"The Menhir\\"s spirit can exact a revenge on true barbarians. \\"Darius\\" shows how a mean, crooked man might be better humored when reincarnated as a horse and broken to saddle, but still fail to win others over. \\"United Imp\\" is a tale of labor unions and how even the perfect non-union labor may not be perfect. \\"Tiki\\" is a south sea idol not to be defaced when a vat of huge dead spider crabs is around. \\"Far Babylon\\" witnesses the dream of a ghost for a ghost city. \\"Yellow Man\\" pits voodoo drums and black magic against a stubborn nature. \\"A Sending of Serpents\\" is the clash of cults, wherein revenge does not come in the form of death.  If you happen to be the leader of a biker gang called \\"The Huns\\", you may not really want to become leader of the Master race. In the title story \\"The Purple Pterodactyls\\" a Jinn in a ring can be worse when it succeeds for you. Here you find Wilson's spirit encapsulated: he keeps trying no matter what the odds to get what he wants. Even if his goal is more the idea than the thing. Pirates may bury somethingother than gold in a \\"Dead Man's Chest\\". Another idol, \\"The Figurine\\",  shows that a godlet can have a mind of it's own. And finally, \\"Priapus\\" is the age old tale of bad Latin turning a love rite into something else entirely.<br />de Camp writes in a staid fashion, eliminating gloomy drama for the realism of everyday commonness. His stories attempt to explore various facets of human nature (while not getting too lofty). His people rarely save the world from ultimate doom, and as such can be believable. In fact, you might feel more sympathy for the bad guys than the good guys because the bad guys are just human, after all.<br />  One thing I look for in a book is conversation, interaction between characters without a gross outlay of introverted mumbling. A book has to have by plenty of quote marks to attract me and de Camp's stories typically have these in plenty. If you like his other stories, try this collection.	2001-03-01
US	46758986	R3MLARNHFP0Y13	0441864953	636637717	The Virgin of Zesh and the Tower of Zanid	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Book 4 in Krishna	Two of the &quot;Z&quot; series of Krishna books rolled into one, the Virgin of Zesh and Tower of Zanid cover a period of time before the planet is opened up to outright human access. And one of the big problems with writing a review is that there is so much to Krishna that can be mentioned.<br />The Virgin of Zesh follows the exploits of Althea Kirwin, a nun of the Ecumenical Monotheist religion. Unfortunately she suffers from romantic entanglements: from a big Russsian brute who gets her drunk and married, to fleeing to safety into the Krishnan hinterlands where she meets a brute of a different nature who is far more savage but far more civilized. In between which are encounters with a back-to-nature cult (a must for semi-barbaric planets) and a power grabbing local with plans of conquest.<br />The Tower of Zanid introduces Anthony Fallon, an English adventurer who sets out to become ruler of a kingdom. Unfortunately the locals don't merely roll over and let him have his will, and to boot the local Earth delegates are in there in part to prevent just such shenanigans on the part of would be swashbucklers.<br />If you want to read a book set in a semi-barbaric era where people matter and the people of the book are real, not cookie-cuttter slot jobs, try Krishna. Krishna lacks automobiles and guns, yet remains civilized, with the natives as bright as any people you'd meet on the street (perhaps too bright in some ways).	2001-02-17
US	46758986	R3VDXMMDNASBNO	0345375513	812790902	The Venom Trees of Sunga	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Kukulcan Adventure	Kirk Salazar represents the typical de Camp approach to a book: rather than a big, brawny hero, Kirk is a scholar, short and intellectual, set apon the task of figuring out the way the branch climbing kusis manage to live amoung the venom trees in the island of Sunga on the Kukulcan planet. The venom trees having adopted a defense of spraying acid at dangers, including people.<br />An easy enough task except for the intervention of people, from a land developer who simply wants to cut the forest down for lumber to a quasi-preistess come to reside among a back-to nature cult in the same area. The local dinosauroid natives simply add flavor to the typical mix up of different people striving for different goals, none of which match.<br />Too bad so few books were written in the setting. It has the classical semi-barbaric atmosphere of old novels (steam engines, great lizards, jungle) with modern themes and prose the reader can relate to.	2001-02-17
US	46758986	R39HJWN0E7OWUH	0441342965	702996329	Hostage Of Zir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Krishna Revisted - Mayhem as a Tour Guide	One of the several and too few &quot;Z&quot; books set on the planet of Krishna, the Hostage of Zir introduces Fergus Reith, the &quot;hero&quot; as such of several subsequent Krishnan books, a stand-in Tour Guide for the Magic Carpet Travel Agency wrastled into leading a simple tour guide on the planet. The first tour group. Easy enough.<br />By the end of the book Reith is torn between completing the task and boiling the members of the group in hot oil, and that illustrates the travails these mild, ordinary people put him through with their zany and constant antics. From such simple feats as insulting locals and risking a lynch mob to such exotic fare as getting kidnapped in a power ploy, they provide non-stop hair pulling entertainment.<br />Not the least bit the local natives are slightly green skinned and have feathery tufts from their eyebrows. And prove to be quiet &quot;human&quot; despite those differences!	2001-02-17
US	46758986	RSPR3Y20RNIFG	0345293673	289564646	The Fallible Fiend (Novaria, Bk. 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Set in Novaria	de Camp uses his common fantasy setting of Novaria for this book, and throws a typical plot twist by having a demon as the central character. Mind you, a demon in this sense is simply a being from another dimension, and Zdim happens to be a mild mannered, scholarly sort of being who (for instance) tries to trade off on his boyhood freindship with the magistrate to avoid the summons to serve on the human plane in exchange for iron. Zdim just wants to stay home, bite his wife, raise rabbages and help hatch the kidlings.<br />But he is denied a wavier and whence the adventure begins.<br />de Camp's one central grace for me is he writes about people. His villians will look at you and say, &quot;Me, a villian? But you, dear sir, are far more a villian!&quot; And they mean it, spouting viewpoints which are (in the villian's sense) perfectly logical (if not exactly moral). Culture clash is often the center of his stories. Take a demon skilled in logic and reason and throw him in with barbaric humans and you wind up with non stop exasperation and amazement at the duplicity involved. As Zdim points out,  'feindishly clever' is quiet a strange racial tag for the incessantly cunning and devious humans to come up with!<br />&quot;I endeavor to give satisfaction,&quot; is perhaps the exasperated catch phrase of the de Camp books.	2001-02-17
US	46758986	R2ZSPEFYOO574L	0345307739	504980600	The Unbeheaded King	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Third in the Jorian Trilogy	Third and last book in the trilogy which was later published in one volume as the Reluctant King, this volume picks up after Jorian has escaped the seige of Iraz and represents the last attempt to rescue his lady love Estrildis from captivity. Xylar will exchange her gladly for his head; as ex-king he blocks them from gaining a new king becuase their political system requires the king's head be chopped off after five years and tossed into the crowd to see who catches it and becomes the lucky person for the next five year term.<br />Novaria, the setting of the trilogy and several other books, is explored more. And provides the mishaps that get in his way: a demon too busy to do his job right, lasso men from Xylar trying to pull him back, evading said men while trying to sneak back, and assorted other perils. In the end Jorian does discover true love. Albeit you'll never figure out how if you are used to reading save-the-princess-kill-the-monster romances.<br />One thing I like about de Camp's writing is that it's fairly well thought out and detailed. Novaria is a real world with it's own character. Jorian himself is a story teller and that in itself indicates the dedication to story telling de Camp possesses because, unlike some books, Jorian actually can mesmerize the audience with stories. Unique tales at that.	2001-02-17
US	46758986	R3KL47BQU66VAN	0671877461	510897089	The Reluctant King	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Trilogy Set In Novaria	The Reluctant King is a trilogy set in de Camps's fantasy milileu of Novaria, combining &quot;The Goblin Tower&quot; &quot;The Clocks of Iraz&quot;, and &quot;The Unbeheaded King.&quot; It follows the adventurs of Jorian, a fellow beset by the problem of really not being good at any one skill which he can make a living at. By accident he wanders into Xylar City proper and catches the head of the previous king (the Lot of Imbal by which the next reigning king is chosen). The books begin 5 years later when he escapes the end-of-rein beheading that would be used to choose the next king. His next task is to recover his love from the kingdom. Don't think you know the plot just by those words - de Camp doesn't write the same ole kill-the-monster-save-the-princess rag as most people do.<br />These three books revolve around Jorian's one gift, his ability to tell tales. Like the Arabian Nights series, he uses this ability to forestall doom multiple times but in different settings. And in the process wanders through a number of epics disecting various government forms, winding up with the concept that governments are based on people, and people tend to err. <br />Novaria is a dense setting: it's well set out. Several time's I've tried to work up a &quot;Land of Novaria&quot; compedium but while reading the various books I get stumped because every page contains a reference to something different. Which can make for heavy reading. But if you like realistics settings it can please you.<br />I myself wish there were three times as many books set in Novaria...	2001-02-17
US	46758986	R3T16DTL33ND9	0671720457	309887277	Incorporated Knight	Books	5	2	2	N	N	In search of an Honest Living	Set in a far corner of de Camp's Novaria world, The Incorporated Knight follows the attempts of Eudoric Dambertson to succeed in his world not by becoming a knight of reknown and fame, but by becoming a businessman of good stature, a goal looked down apon by his contemporary's, who believe the proper knight is a muscle-bound, sword swinging bone-head who's main aims in life are wenching and deeds of valor. His first attempt to win into a family with spurs and commercial bindings pits him to recover a few yards of dragon hide. Which he does, it's through a miss-chance involving gun powder and the law, which disagrees with poaching dragons out of season and throws him in the slammer. When he is freed, his intended lady love has run off with another and that's the flavor of the book.<br />Eudoric winds through twists and turns, a maze of dishonest honest people in his quest for financial success: he woos the daughter of a man best referred to as a murderous ******, avoids a &quot;virgin&quot; princess whom he saved in promise of wedlock only to have her husbands come back in stony form, outwits an ogre who in all honestly only eats those who are not of the correct religion, and manages to start a coach service despite the partners he teams up with. If you are looking for a book that isn't &quot;He kills the monster, marries the beautiful princess, and saves the world,&quot; here's one with characters you often just want to throttle or laugh at. de Campe's people are as ordinary as the person standing by you, and for that reason are often bizarre.	2001-02-16
US	46758986	R2VK0VKMJSO5AI	0671877666	252627357	The Ship Avenged (Hardcover) (Brainship)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Okay but not along the same lines as others	This is a good read, but not great. It's actually a divergence from the brainships theme, set in the same space (in fact brain-anything is hardly mentioned). Joat from the connected book is all grown up; she meets someone &quot;smarter&quot; than her and fall romatically for him (bip, boom, bang). Some friends get caught by the bad guys and one falls in love with the Kolnari. They meet some bad guys, some really dumb things happen. The plot wanders around; the book really doesn't end becuase the author likely had a sequal deal in mind. I mean, the Kolnari threat is trashed before the girl even meets them. Everyone in the book knows what's going on including most obviously the reader. Consider that as a female JOAT thinks of herself as &quot;Jack of All Trade&quot; and not &quot;Jill of All Trade&quot;. Of &quot;Jane&quot; or &quot;Judy&quot;. She even disses the idea. Unoriginal. Not too female. Male oriented.	2000-12-08
