US	46778870	R2015SQM110DFO	0811200124	359539404	Labyrinths: Selected Stories and Other Writings (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	How Does One Critique Perfection?	I believe it is in the introduction of Labyrinths where it is said that the reasons Borges never wrote a novel were because his short stories were so clear, so concise, that they needed no further elaboration and also that he possessed a sort of &quot;lofty laziness.&quot;  Every story he wrote is a masterpiece of precision and concision.  There are no words used in vain, no superfluous ramblings (as I perhaps am indulging in) no word lest it has a purpose.  And paradoxically, like a Borges story, within this laconic style, exists an infinite amount of richness and beauty.  Take, for example, &quot;The Library of Babel,&quot; with its honeycombs of rooms filled with books.  A few pages allows Borges to complete this idea.  But while the story may be short, its interpretations, its ideas, its consequences and beauties (like the Library itself) can never be exhausted.  One could perhaps say that this story reflects the fact that mans life is like a book of which he can only read up to a certain point.  One could perhaps say that the world, by the desire of human beings is a construct of words and language, not of protons and electrons.  One may also equally argue that this story illustrates how knowledge may never be completely destroyed since there always exists a &quot;book&quot; in the Library which mimics it.  Borges has been discussed and cited not only in classes on Literature but also in classes on aesthetics, metaphysics, epistemology, etc and rightly so.  And although his ideas may not be new (he, himself, believed that all stories are fundamentally the same) his passion and imagination are without peer.  One never gets the sense, in any of his writings, of reading a pedant who is hostile to any assault on his intelligence.  Rather, one sees him as a traveller, one with almost childlike curiosity and awe towards that which he sees, who  so greatly desires to experience the innocent beauty of engaging in new ideas.	2003-08-03
US	46778870	RQGWKU7Q1CSV7	0786703024	331431575	The Nightmare Factory	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Extraordinarily Impressive	Eerie.  That's the first word that pops to mind when thinking of Ligotti's style of writing.  Like a word association test; Ligotti . . . Eerie.  Ligotti has a unique style of writing.  Quite rare when so many writers are trying to write \\"like\\" someone else.  King, Campbell, Straub, Barker, the list of the imitated goes on.  It must be admitted, however; when one reads Ligotti, one can see the pastiche of different styles.  The influence of Lovecraft is particularly poignant.  Indeed, \\"The Last Feast of Harlequin,\\" is dedicated to Lovecraft.  What one has to realize is that this is not imitation but mastery.  Ligotti is not trying to write \\"like\\" someone else . . . He can write better.  After reading Ligotti, one might think that he studied under Lovecraft, mastered that style, then moved onto another until he had mastered all styles he felt he needed.  It is similar to how artists study under recognized masters then create their own works after finishing their apprenticeship.  Ligotti is an artist unto himself, but one can tell the \\"styles\\" under which he is versed; just as one can tell the \\"styles\\" under which Remembrandt was versed.<BR>Ligotti has a way of \\"bending\\" reality as, quite aptly, in a nightmare.  More akin to Kafka, these are psychological skews in perception.  But sometimes (and the scary part is that we never know whether or not the story we are reading falls into this particular \\"sometime\\") the horror is more than psychological, it is Lovecraftian.  The first story in the collection, \\"The Frolic,\\" is a good example of this.  [STOP reading here if you do not want to know what happened in the story.]  Is the prisonner simply an insane murderer or is he a being from a different plane of reality, a demon dimension bordering ours?  Either way you look at the story, psychological (the killer is a psychopath) or supernatural (the killer is a demon from another dimension) you are hit with horror.  The only difference is the difference between being hit witha 50 foot tidal wave or a 150 foot tidal wave.  [RECOMMENCE reading now.]  <BR>Ligotti is not a complex writer; he is a sophisticated writer.  A complex writer presents many parts, all of which may not go together.  A sophisticated writer presents many parts, ALL of which serve an important purpose, like a well played chess match (or the engine block of a 65 Mustang).  Ligotti has been indicted with being too ambiguous, too vague, in his writing.  But the beauty of Ligotti's writing is that it is open to multiple interpretations.  This is the reason for the confusion.  His writing is not ambiguous, it is multifaceted.  It is highly sophisticated with amazing prose, and I only hope that, unlike his Providence predecessor, Ligotti will not have to wait until after his death to receive the recognition he deserves as a truly original, truly eerie, voice in horror literature.	2003-07-07
US	46778870	R33VKRD86PU1EC	0380974444	372330424	Jack Faust	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Creative Reworking of the Faust Legend	While Swanwick may not ever achieve the status of a Thomas Mann, he has penned a quite creative reworking of the traditional Faustian myth.  Casting his vision on the template of science fiction, Swanwick adds interesting dimensions to the already complex Faustian characters.  Mephistopheles appears as an alien force; as arrogant and manipulative an extraterrestrial as he ever was a demon.  Margarete still appears as the innocent caught in the crossfire of evil and eviler.  Wagner, the fanatic sycophant, who never realizes that not only is he a pawn, but he's a pawn that neither side cares enough to either advance or gambit.  And Faust, the perpetual megalomaniac.  His desire to master thoughts ends up making thoughts his master.  He creates and creates but with no purpose except the creation, much like a pathogen.  Ultimately the purpose, as in the traditional legend, serves those who gave him the tools to create.<br />And in all this richness, Swanwick adds.  This is a message to the future, our future, which is nightmarishly similar to Faust's reality.  Ushering in an UltraIndustrial revolution, Faust overwhelms too many with too much and as Mehpistopheles knows, the gifts that mechanization brings to fruition are never used for benefit.  For example, one of the first films produced after the invention of film (in the book) is no less than a pornographic movie (the title being a colorful four letter word starting with \\"f\\").  And in this uncontrollable momentum, this Newtonian nightmare, no end is in sight.  Indeed, no end is possible.  Like a vehicle out of control people will die because of the chaos.  Mephistopheles is counting on the entire world to die.  And he is not disappointed.<br />Swanwicks reason for the reworking.  Knowledge doesn't make us more certain of a future.  It could very well be the opposite.  What makes us certain of a future is knowledge used properly.  Knowledge used without greed, without vanity; knowledge used with humanity, with compassion.  Creation for a higher purpose.  Faust was like a child who desired a toy and once that toy was possessed, only desired another which he did not have.  It is not how much one knows, but how one uses that knowledge which they already possess . . . to help others.  All this can be gathered from the classical workings of the myth.  What Swanwick adds is a slight, but significant twist.  In giving Jack Faust the knowledge to create scientific wonders without end, Mephistopheles knew that WE, as a people, would misuse them, regardless of if Faust misused them or not (he did).  And that is the beauty, that is the addition Swanwick gives us to the Faust legend.  We are all Faust.  We are all culpable.  Because we all had a hand in our own damnation.  And consequently, if we are all Faust, we can all stop this damanation.  We have a choice to stop the \\"death instinct\\", as Freud called it.  But guilty or innocent we will drag each other down or lift each other up.  It is, in the end, a simple matter of choice.on.  Creation for a higher purpose.  Faust was like a child who desired a toy and once that toy was possessed, only desired another which he did not have.  It is not how much one knows, but how one uses that knowledge which they already possess . . . to help others.  All this can be gathered from the classical workings of the myth.  What Swanwick adds is a slight, but significant twist.  In giving Jack Faust the knowledge to create scientific wonders without end, Mephistopheles knew that WE, as a people, would misuse them, regardless of if Faust misused them or not (he did).  And that is the beauty, that is the addition Swanwick gives us to the Faust legend.  We are all Faust.  We are all culpable.  Because we all had a hand in our own damnation.  And consequently, if we are all Faust, we can all stop this damanation.  We have a choice to stop the \\"death instinct\\", as Freud called it.  But guilty or innocent we will drag each other down or lift each other up.  It is, in the end, a simple matter of choice.	2003-07-07
US	46778870	R3TYI1VCJ5BD13	0679756817	361270714	Shella	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Love?	Ghost promises to kill Shella's father.  He tells her this.  It is so romantic you weep when you read it.  Vachss writes crisp.  So sharp it cuts your mind.  He creates characters with such depth they are bottomless.  They are bottomless because the depths of human depravity is bottomless.  You like Ghost by the end of the book.  Hell, you like him at the beginning.  To label him an antihero belittles his character, just as labeling him a murderer belittles his actions.  It would be accurate but not accurate.  He does kill.  A lot.  But there is no emotion in it.  He is like a weapon.  Neither truly good nor truly evil.  Simply there.  Waiting to have its sights locked and its trigger pulled.  But Ghost, John, whatever his name, doesn't need anyone to justify his actions.  He doesn't care about those things.  All he cares about is Shella.  He will go to hells without number to find her if necessary.  And it is necessary.  I don't know if one could call what he feels for Shella love.  I don't know what it is.  Love doesn't exist where he and Shella are.  It never did and never will.  But the closest word that describes it is love.  Does love exist in hell?  You'd have to ask Ghost.  Perhaps that is what Vachss wants to tell a story about.  Maybe he wants to show us what true love is like in true hell.	2002-12-28
US	46778870	R1WM20F3WF1H36	0674002903	944719563	This Craft of Verse (Charles Eliot Norton Lectures)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Master Borges	I don't believe that any one person in the history of letters has lived more fully in books, around books, with books, and through books than has Jorge Luis Borges.  Thus I give him the title of Master Borges.  It is a title I, myself, do not give him but one that he already bears simply by the person he is, was, and continues to be through his legacy.  I'm sure he would modestly disapprove.  But Kafka thought himself (at least on some level) a hack, so it would not surprise that one who has inspired me with such a sense of wonder in words, as has Borges, would think that he has not really done anything special at all.  And there is the rub.  Borges is telling his personal feelings about verse and prose (the same thing according to him) but never onces considers he is giving us the beauty of words merely by remembering them.  In his recollections and meditations lie a wisdom that is almost preternatural.  I give as example these few quotes:<br />\\"What is important, what is all-meaning is the fact that poetry should be living or dead, not that the style should be plain or elaborate.\\"<br />\\"There are, of course, verses that are beautiful and meaningless.  Yet they still have a meaning - not to the reason but to the imagination.\\"<br />\\"Remember that the Gnostics said the only way to be rid of a sin is to commit it, because afterwards you repent it.  In regard to literature, they were essentially right.  If I have attained the happiness of writing four of five tolerable pages, after writing fifteen intolerable volumes, I have come to that feat not only through many years but also through the method of trial and error.\\"<br />There are more pearls, many more, and it will take many rereadings to find them all, if such a thing is possible.  It makes one desperately wish that they could have had the opportunity to sit and hear the master speak.  If (no, when) you read this book, do so slowly.  And read as if you were hearing the man face to face.  Just as Borges heard Casinos-Assens, Fernandez, and his father speak to him when in search of knowledge and wisdom, I hear, at least I would like to think that I hear, Borges speak, for I have heard him speak from the living breathing pages of this book.  Read.  Please.  See if you can hear the music of his voice.	2002-08-20
US	46778870	R2UVLEI4H466P	0899684270	905217923	All Heads Turn When the Hunt Goes by	Books	4	18	19	N	N	As Gripping as a Noose Around the Neck	Farris' book of voodoo sorcery is an intricately weaved work of plot and subplot.  Ostensibly about the cursed lineage of the Bradwins, this book takes you from the plantations of Virginia to the countryside of England to the colonial age jungles of the heart of Africa (places Joe Conrad would not have even stepped foot in).  This range of settings, times, and characters, apparently disconnected yet insidiously linked by dark, ancient forces, gives this book an almost Lovecraftian feeling.  It is as if these forces can and are affecting each and every individual on this planet, yet we are naively and mercifully unaware of these unseen powers.  That is, until those powers wish to make themselves known.  This virtual omnipresence is illustrated in one scene where the character of Early Boy is talking to the self  confessed voodoo priest.  The old man tells Early Boy that voodoo is not primitive superstition or nonsensical sorcery but a sophisticated and very ancient religion predating and even the basis of modern religions.  He says that Moses himself learned magic from powerful voodoo masters in the African jungles and therefore pretty much all of Christianity and Judaism is based on voodoo.<BR>Instead of giving us a simple &quot;voodoo men raise demons and other boogeymen with curses&quot; type plot, which is straight out of a B movie, Farris structures the story so that it is believable, frightening, sophisticated, and chilling in its insinuations.  Nor is this the type of story that has a predictable plot.  You never guess the horror of the first few pages and you will never see the ending coming.  Farris also never fails to give us great action throughout the story.  A character jumping out of a window sending shards of glass flying is just the norm in this story.  And they do get cut.  &quot;What do you think this is, a western?&quot; as Early Boy says.  Farris not only gives us a masterfully woven plot, he also delievers great action, and a pretty good scary story.	2002-06-16
US	46778870	RCKZAGI70RVV8	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Great Idea, Bad Execution (No Pun Intended . . . Really)	Ellis had an excellent idea of how to satirize the Reagan era.  Unfortunately, the message got lost in all the blood.  This book made the Texas Chainsaw Massacre look like a daytime soap opera.  First let it be said that the movie carries the message, i.e. the satire, that Ellis was trying to convey far more masterfully than did the novel.  Watch the movie, skip the book, if you just want to enjoy the satire.  The message that I believe Ellis was trying to carry across is that the character of Bateman, despite being an evil soulless serial killer, is still the paragon of success using the standards of the Reagan era.  He's hitting that entire decades moral and philosophical framework with about four tons of plastique explosive when a simple pound would have done.  In other words, Ellis has missed that key attribute of any successful satirist . . . subtlety, or more accurately, what NOT to say, what NOT to describe.  One might argue that Jonathan Swift was anything but subtle in his \\"Modest Proposal\\" when he suggested eating Irish children.  But Swift did not describe slicing the childs throat open.  Ellis did.  The blood simply refuses to let the reader concentrate on anything else.   <BR>However, this book did have not only a good idea, but an excellent way to make this idea work.  Once again, the movie does a better job than the novel in showing the satire that Ellis was trying to get across.  The movie is bloody, but not near as bloody as the book.  Not even a tenth of the blood that the book splattered on the pages.  However, despite what people might think, the blood, the gore, is integral to this satire, just as it was integral with Swift's satire.  But Ellis simply makes the fault of overkill.  (Really, I'm serious, that is not a pun.)  It was a promising idea, Ellis simply did not have the skill to carry it out.  However, he did have the creativity to think it up so I give him two points for that at least.	2002-06-15
US	46778870	RGQQQJAZQUOGD	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Does Anyone Ever Give This Book a Bad Review	Jackson has created a masterpiece of supernatural literature.  It is as close to flawless as any writer may wish.  This book is like a well played chess match, every move has a purpose and there are no useless movements.  The book is structured so that by the end of the novel all you can say is, &quot;Wow.&quot;  Jackson has above all mastered the art of using the abscence of stimuli to stimulate our fears.  I dare anyone to read Chapter 5 part 4, and not have a shudder run through their entire body at the revelation of the last sentence.  However, there are complaints about the book which must be addressed.  They aren't that significant so go ahead and order the book now and read them later if you want.  All the important stuff has already been said.<BR>The first complaint about the book is that Jackson does not give us anything truly scary, only a couple of eerie messages on walls, banging cannon balls, and voices of doubtful authenticity.  Proponents of this complaint are the same people who hated The Blair Witch Project but loved House on Haunted Hill (Geoffery Rush version).  It is really not a complaint but a matter of preference, along the lines of red wine or white wine, Elvis or The Beatles, great tasting or less filling, etc.  One may wish to see the blood splattered all over the room rather than see a crimson puddle leaking out from under the door while hearing the sound of the chainsaw.  It is the approach of two different schools.  Splatterpunk or Gothic, it's your choice.  The bottom line is that Jackson is the BEST from the school of the New Gothic and if she can't scare you then no one from that school can, a school which includes King and Straub among its visiting pupils.<BR>The second complaint is that the lead character, Eleanor Vance, is a narcissistic, self centered, selfish (to use another adjective describing the same trait), unlikeable individual.  One may feel pity for her but there is never any true affinity that the reader feels towards Eleanor.  Despite her deepest yearnings, none (at least no one among the living) wants to be Eleanors friend and this sentiment extends beyond the fictional world of Hill House directly to the reader.  We simply don't want to be her friend.  This, however, is Jacksons intent instead of (as some readers may erronously conclude) a flaw of the novel.  It is a part of what King refers to as the &quot;New Gothic,&quot; which is populated not by the &quot;innocent&quot; victims (like the &quot;Old&quot; Gothic was, just think of Mina in Dracula) or by dashing heroes (Van Helsing) but by deluded, narcissistic people with numerous faults.  In other words, us.  Etchison, Siddons, and even King, among others, have dabbled in this school.  The Shining is a &quot;New Gothic&quot; masterpiece only surpassed by, of course, Jacksons work.  Look at Jack Torrance and Eleanor Vance and you will find striking similarities in their descent to disaster.  You may also find that you see your own reflection in these two people.  That is just part of the fright of the New Gothic.  And that is part of the fright of Hill House.	2002-06-09
US	46778870	R1AATKCRO1MDVC	0770107559	457951653	The Cellar	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Start to a Decent Series	The Beast House series is not anything ravingly original but Laymon is a damn good writer no matter what his plot is.  With titles like \\"Flesh\\" and \\"Stake\\" many people have written him off as merely a hack pulp horror writer and not even a good hack at that.  However, Laymon's style is crisp and sharp cutting through to the readers sensibilities like the razor sharp talons of the creatures he writes of.  The Cellar drags out the tension in two ways.  One, what is really in the Beast House and two, when will Donna's evil exhusband bite it and how.  This first book sets the stage for the other two books (I believe there is a fourth due to come out) which lack any element of surprise similar to the first novel but are credited with Laymon's characteristically terse and dialogue loaded prose.	2002-03-24
US	46778870	R1NUCVA8J5YOCC	0451134710	339791742	Domain (Rats)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	It'll Blow You Away	A day like any other in Cold War London, until the unspeakable happens.  Sirens, Panic, Fire.  The worst appears to be over.  But whereas other authors would consider this the climax of a novel James Herbert would consider this only a backdrop for a novel which is arguably his best work in a resume of already great writing.  Of course, this book is a Cold War relic, but by no means anachronistic.  The threat of nuclear attack is still omniprsent in todays post Cold War society.  But to say that this book is about nuclear war is the same as saying that Stephen Kings The Stand is about a plague.  It's true but the real suspense occurs with this as a backdrop.  This is of course, the concluding portion of the Rats Trilogy (Rats=1, Lair=2, Domain=3) and by far the best of the three.  The action centers around three people, Steve Culver (the prototypical Herbert hero), Alex Dealy (the prototypical Herbert bureacratic idiot), and Kate Garner (the prototypical Herbert female lead).  Yes his characters are formulaic but you don't go to a Steven Segal movie for the acting, you go to see bad guys getting beat up and stuff getting blown up.  Here's how the plot line goes.  The heroes first get knocked into hell with the nuclear blasts.  They manage to escape the first rat onslaught because Culver gets lucky enough to find the bureacrat Dealy (actually Dealy gets lucky enough that Culver saved his arse from the nuclear blast, which made Dealy temporarily blind, instead of leaving him to die which Dealy surely would have done to Culver had positions been reversed), along with Kate, but it is Dealy who knows where the &quot;secret entrance&quot; to the government fallout shelter is.  There is a calm where the heroes are in the government installation and being treated for the disease the rats carry.  Culver gets it especially bad and we find out a lot about him from his fevered ramblings.  But what happens eventually . . . You guessed it.  The war ends and everybody ends up on afallout free tropical island in Tahiti.  NO, the rats come.  They always do, and they always come ready to eat and with plenty of company.  After that things go from bad to worse.  A few of the people from the shelter barely manage to escape only to be thrust into the hell that is postnuke London.  They get attacked by wandering thugs, as they wander to the &quot;main shelter&quot; that Dealy told them about.  I'll leave you with that.  I don't want to spoil the ending.  All of you guys know they have to be attacked a couple of times more but the real kicker doesn't actually come until the second to last page!  I thought I had Herberts formula down but I was so wrong I owe him an apology.  Get this book from any out of print book dealer, Amazon's real good with this kind of thing.  Get it if only for the last page alone.  Herbert really delivers with this last installment in the Rats Trilogy.	2001-12-12
US	46778870	R2UFYI3KMQSWAB	0451165640	469835489	Lair	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Pleasantly Surprised About This Great Suspense Story	For those of you who don't know the order of the Rats trilogy already, let me go ahead and get that out of the way first.  It starts off with Rats, then Lair, and finally concludes with Domain.  All are great books but I must admit when I started Lair I wasn't ready to give it the credit it deserved.  It was a sort of neglected middle child out of the &quot;Rats&quot; family.  The first book, Rats, sets up the plot for the entire trilogy, as would be expected and while the premise by itself (people being mutilated and killed by giant mutant rats) seems like something out of a 50's B Horror movie, Herbert actually manages to pull it off, due probably more to his skill as a writer than anything else.  And this was when he was an up and coming writer.  Reading his later works one can see how much he has evolved [kind of like his rats :):)].  Rats was the starting point and was pretty interesting in and of itself, while Domain was a straight home run out of the park.  When I started Lair, with the knowledge of what was to come in Domain, I read it mainly so I could get to Domain, kind of how you drive through Jersey so you can get to New York.  But I guess the surprise was on me because I actually really enjoyed reading the book.  The rats come back and in full force, except instead of being in the London docks they are in Epping Forest, an outskirt of London.  The no nonsense, tough as nails hero with a vendetta in this book is Luke Pender (although if you like Pender you'll really like Captain Mather, a sort of British John Wayne).  Pender works for Ratkill, the extermination agency that helped stop the London outbreak four years earlier.  People looking for recurring characters might be disappointed (although not surprised since many of the main characters in Rats either got terribly mauled or killed) as the only one we get is Stephen Howard, a grunt in the original Rats novel, but now the big cheese at Ratkill in Lair.  The book is action packed with lots of rat attacks, as would be expected, the usual gratuitous sex scenes one always expects from Herbert (just joking Mr. Herbert) and a great finale worthy of the House of Usher.  This book can be thought of as an extension of the first book, Rats.  One could read Lair in and of itself but it would make more sense if they read Rats first then Lair, as it involves the reader more in the story.  Yes, the book has some predictable scenes.  One sometimes wants to shout &quot;Don't go in there&quot; but Herbert's prose does make up for any misses.  For richness of plot you might want to turn to Harlan Ellison or Ray Bradbury, but if you like smooth prose that floats off the mind like a fine wine as well as a riveting action adventure novel then give Herbert a try.  (And don't forget to read the other two books in the trilogy).	2001-07-17
US	46778870	R2OQKLAP1JCJ0E	0451159993	308474223	The Rats	Books	4	0	4	N	N	Great Fiction From A Great Writer	I read a review of this book that said that the book starts with Chapter 1 introducing a character and then having him/her killed horribly, Chapter 2 doing the same, and so on until the end of the book.  I'd like to think that Herbert's book has a little more depth than that.  Don't get me wrong, this isn't Les Miserables, but in its own right it is a pretty darn good book.  It's the kind of book you can read when your brain is tired of reading Les Miserables.  This is however, a pretty gory little novel, with dozens (perhaps hundreds if I really took the time to count) of characters dying horribly at the hands of the mutant black rats.  I do believe that Herbert did have a plan when writing this book and didn't just wake up one day and say that he wanted to write a book where Londoners get mutilated by rats.  In one of the first chapters we are introduced to a character (a homeless, previously successful businessman) who is for all intended purposes dead already.  He has given into crippling despair and has no true life left in him.  His soul is dead already from despair and he is only alive because his body is still ticking.  The rats attack him first and quickly kill him as would be expected.  But the key point here is that HE WAS ALREADY DEAD EVEN BEFORE THE RATS KILLED HIM.  Rats eat dead things and when they ate this person they were just doing something that came naturally to them.  But as Herbert says &quot;They had tasted their first human blood.&quot;  Herbert seems to think the real crime here is not that they are killing people but that they are killing people who are still &quot;alive&quot; in every sense of the word.  The rats next attack a child (a child who goes to the school where the main character teaches) and then a small baby (whose death Herbert grusomely relates to us).  These crimes are infinitely worse than the first because the first character was &quot;dead&quot; and these characters were &quot;alive&quot;.  As the rats thirst for blood becomes greater so do their atrocities.  An attack on a school house and on a crowded subway are a few examples.  This seems to be Herberts underlying theme here, that after the rats stopped doing what Nature intended them to do (living off dead and decaying things) and started doing something &quot;unNatural&quot; (living off things that are alive) they became evil.  But Herbert ultimately reveal to us that we, human beings, were responsible for the rats creation and we are therefore, in a sense, responsible for all the atrocities the rats committed.  All the debts we have accumulated as human beings are responsible for the rats being here and it is time to pay the bill.  I know you're probably thinking I'm looking way too deep into a second rate horror novel, but let me tell you two things.  One, this is NOT a second rate horror novel, and Two, Herbert is one of the most underappreciated horror writer of modern times.  True, this work is not near as good as his later writing like Haunted, 48, or Domain(aka Rats III) and you should all go out and read these books, but before you do start with this book right here.  You'll be amazed that a writer could get any better than this but Herbert managed to do it.  So start with Rats and work your way up, you won't be disappointed and hopefully you'll soon see James Herbert as the amazing writer he truly deserves to be noticed as.	2001-07-14
US	46778870	R1V1PZE73H8KS	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	THIS is King's Legacy	&quot;The man in black fled across the desert and the Gunslinger followed.&quot; With these first words King begins one of the greatest epics to come out of fantasy fiction in a very long time. Many wonder what Stephen King will be remembered for once he shuffles off this mortal coil. Will it be Salem's Lot, or The Shining, or The Green Mile, or The Stand? Those will be remembered the way one remembers Sir Edmund Spenser's Amoretti, or John Milton's Samson Agonistes, or Virgil's Ecologues. All are important works in their own right but all are vastly overshadowed by greater, more penetrating, works. For Spenser it was The Faerie Queen, for Milton it was Paradise Lost, for Virgil, The Aeneid, and for Stephen King it will be The Dark Tower Series. Stephen King creates a world of infinite depth and complexity in this series. The world he creates is one of decadence and misery. Baudelaire would have been proud, Eliot would have wept, indeed, the third book in this series is named after Eliot's famous poem, The Waste Land. The atmosphere alone would have made this a great book, but it is the character of Roland which makes this an epic. In Roland, King creates a modern day Epic Hero, a charater in search of a great prize, The Tower. This first book gives us only a superficial glance at the world of Roland, and I suspect it is King's intention to not give us an indepth look at Roland and his world in this first book. After one reads &quot;The Gunslinger&quot; one feels like a man in a thick fog looking for a path to follow. As one progesses through the series the path becomes clearer and one begins to see objects, that like magic, simply appear before them. Here we see Roland pursuing the Man in Black, an old enemy. He pursues him at the expense of all, including a dear companion. Yet, like a force of nature, Roland continues, unrelenting, uncompromising, unstoppable. His will leads him through monstrosity after monstrosity, horror after horror, tragedy after tragedy. This is the cycle we see in the first book and this is the cycle we see throughout the epic. It is Rolands will which makes him a hero, not his training as a gunslinger. And throughout all of the stories we sense that there is something underlying the very fabric of the story. A indescribable force that one cannot see, only feel, like a breeze from the wind. Is it the Man in Black's teacher, an even more ancient enemy to Roland? Is it a character that has not even been revealed in the first book (or even in later books)? Is it the Tower itself? It is Rolands attempt to discover that force that makes the Dark Tower Epic the masterpiece it is. And I say here and now that this series will be Stephen King's Legacy for future generations, just as The Aeneid was Virgils, just as Paradise Lost was Miltons. He may be remembered for other works but none will ever surpass this one. This is King's most advanced writing out of all of his fiction. I dare anyone to read this epic and prove my words wrong.	2001-06-07
US	46778870	R2RJU94T597XXX	0385074077	236471423	Complete Stories and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Great Literature, Horrible Annotation	That should really be amended to say no annotation.  I would have given five stars, six if possible, because Poe's work on the whole is amazing.  Even though all of his short stories and poems (and novella) can be fit into one book which doesn't even break a thousand pages, Poe is very easily the best writer to ever come out of America surpassing even Melville, Whitman, and Faulkner.  The writing is required reading for all who love words.  However, according to the classical education of the nineteenth century, there are quite a few allusions to material written in foreign languages ranging from Latin and Greek to German and French.  In some places translation is provided, but I believe that these translations were done by Poe himself and not by the editors at Doubleday.  There were some places where translation was crucial to the story but was not provided such as at the end of &quot;The Purloined Letter&quot;.  However Doubleday is not the only one guilty of this, I found quite a number of other editions of Poe's Complete works which lacked annotation as well.  In fact I still have not found an edition which DOES CONTAIN annotation.  However, it is only a thorn which does not take away from the beauty of this rose of literature.  Most know Poe from his horror fiction but in the section of Humor and Satire one finds stories which are still able to make one laugh such as &quot;The Literary Life of Thingum Bob, Esq.,&quot; and &quot;The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether.&quot;  The section of Flights and Fantasies shows the man whom Jorge Luis Borges strove to imitate.  And for the very sparseness of it's section, the poetry of Poe continues to amaze to this day, with poems which are more like music than writing.  But be warned, no one will like everything in here, but everyone will like something in here.  For me, I personally didn't care for &quot;The Gold Bug&quot; or for &quot;The Mystery of Marie Roget&quot; but those are both detective stories, so a detective story lover might swoon over them whereas a fantasy story lover might not care for them at all.  A reader who prefers Satire will definitely see a side of Poe which few are familiar with, and which, oftentimes, is on par with even Twain and Bierce.  For sheer imagination, few if any, can hope to ever equal Poe.	2001-03-07
US	46778870	R3OOFMDDO15UC3	0553212583	363093333	Wuthering Heights (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Disappointing Overall	I know that I will be tarred and feathered for denouncing the &quot;20th Century's favorite 19th Century novel&quot; but I have my reasons why as you shall see.  Most of the novel rests entirely on Bronte's ability as a weaver of words, and not on her creation of characters.  Bronte tried to imitate the passion of Lord Byron's characters and succeeded only marginally.  Out of all the characters in Wuthering Heights only Heathcliff is strongly developed in the sense that although we may despise him at certain times, we always feel a sense of empathy, even compassion at times.  For the character of Catherine Earnshaw/Linton one feels only contempt, with a thin veil of sorrow.  It is the same feeling one has for Miss Havisham in Dickens Great Expectations.  Catherine senior is a deceitful, destructive force who almost succeeds in passing on her vices and moral depravity onto her daughter.  Unlike Dickens Great Expectations however, we see no reason in her madness, which is one of the failings of Bronte's novel.  To most readers she is just a spoiled little rich girl who wants to have her cake and eat it too.  This is never expounded on in any great length and Bronte, while not explicitly saying it, seems to condone it as a perfectly good reason to go to Edgar and not Heathcliff.  It is at that point in the story that we have nothing but total contempt for Catherine senior and nothing else.  But there are many morally bankrupt characters that populate great literature and they do not take away from the story, Dickens Miss Havisham and Estella, come up once again.  The difference between Catherine senior and these characters is that Bronte's character is shown as a weak, whining woman with no clear direction either in her life or in the plot of the story.  She is in short the airhead of the story.  It is a very negative portrayal of women and I'm surprised that Bronte devoted so much time to this character.  Her daughter Catherine junior is a much stronger character in every way, but here again is another downfall of the book.  The characters of Catherine junior and Hareton Earnshaw are cast out of the spotlight in favor of concentrating on Catherine seniors whining.  These characters, along with those like Nelly Dean and Lockwood have far less substance than they should.  Bronte should have devoted more time to Catherine and Hareton than she did.  Overall, I think that Heathcliff saved the story from bombing terribly, and Bronte's prose also contributes to the beauty of the book, but she was no Lord Byron.  Bronte simply did not understand plot and character well enough to make this the novel it could have been, which is a terrible shame.  Although some people indict this book as just being a 19th Century soap opera, its fault rests not in the plot being too unrealistic and trite, it rests on the fault that the reader only gets to know a few characters really well, and of those characters only Heathcliff is given the attention he deserves.very way, but here again is another downfall of the book.  The characters of Catherine junior and Hareton Earnshaw are cast out of the spotlight in favor of concentrating on Catherine seniors whining.  These characters, along with those like Nelly Dean and Lockwood have far less substance than they should.  Bronte should have devoted more time to Catherine and Hareton than she did.  Overall, I think that Heathcliff saved the story from bombing terribly, and Bronte's prose also contributes to the beauty of the book, but she was no Lord Byron.  Bronte simply did not understand plot and character well enough to make this the novel it could have been, which is a terrible shame.  Although some people indict this book as just being a 19th Century soap opera, its fault rests not in the plot being too unrealistic and trite, it rests on the fault that the reader only gets to know a few characters really well, and of those characters only Heathcliff is given the attention he deserves.	2001-02-20
US	46778870	R254DCCKW0LLGH	0393097544	61091649	Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (A New Verse Translation)	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Beautiful, A Gem of Romantic Literature	Gaiwan would be worth the purchase if only for the story line alone.  However Marie Borroff's amazing translation adds that beauty and eloquence which only a master translator can produce.  Borroff uses an alliterative meter which will get you tongue tied if you try and read it out loud.  For example the first line is &quot;Since the siege and the assault was ceased at Troy.&quot;  She also gives us beautiful rhymes at the end of each stanza, like in lines 1236-1240:            &quot;My body is here at hand,/            Your each wish to fulfill;/            Your servant to command/            I am, and shall be still/.&quot; The story is full of symbolism, and confronts us with a tough philosophical question.  You have to read the book to find out what that is however.  The book also deals with the problems inherent in the institution of chivalry, and especially courtly love.  Overall I thought the story was wonderful, the translation impeccable, and the underlying message profound.	2001-02-08
US	46778870	R1H465UNKOPGUD	0873648935	802212661	Real Fighting: Adrenaline Stress Conditioning  Through Scenario-Based Training	Books	2	42	44	N	N	Good Point, But Now Show Us How To Do It	This books main premise is that if you want to survive a real life street encounter you have to train for a real life street encounter and this means training realistically.  That sentence took Mr. Quinn 175 pages to cover.  This book is just a diatribe on how ineffective the martial arts are for streetfighting because they don't train with any real contact.  Mr. Quinn is absolutely, 100 percent correct, but he does not give us any solutions to this problem.  From reading this book I am to understand that the only way I can survive a streetfight is to go to Mr. Quinn's Colorado training center and train with him personally.  Believe me, if I could I would, but the large majority of people reading this book will not be able to drop everything and go to Boulder.  This book was completely unnecessary and would have been better as an article in Black Belt or a similar magazine.  When I bought this book I thought I would be getting instructions on how to build to the &quot;Bulletman&quot; suit or how to adapt my martial art to this type of training.  Instead the book reads like a lecture from my father, he has a lot of good points but never tells me how to realistically solve my problem.  There are a few good points to the book, like the part where Mr. Quinn shows us the backhanded strike and the two usoto gari throws, but other than these very few points the book is not worth what I payed for it.  However, the reason I am so disappointed was because after Mr. Quinn's first book, A Bouncers Guide to Barroom Brawling, I expected something as phenomenal as that.  Take my advice, ignore this book and go straight for A Bouncers Guide to Barroom Brawling, it is infinitely better than this book and is worth every penny and then some.  If you are looking for a book that will try and help you to take your martial art to that next level, check out Marc MacYoungs book on the subject.	2001-01-16
US	46778870	RL91J06VU4U2J	0060809841	949556910	Brave New World Revisited	Books	5	190	203	N	N	Be Afraid, Be Very Afraid	That is the message which Huxley conveys through this follow-up to his masterpiece, Brave New World.  Huxley's obsevations of modern day mind control methods, brainwashing, and propaganda are chilling.  What is even more chilling is that this book was written in 1958, one can imagine what advances in these dark sciences man has taken since then.  A key point in this book is that if a totalitarian state is going to exist in the present day it will almost surely be more like Huxley's Brave New World, rather than Orwell's 1984.  The main reason for this is that whereas Orwell's society revolves around the threat of violence, torture, and death, Huxley's revolves around the reward system.  Huxley's Brave New World lulls the masses to sleep so that they have no idea that their freedom is being taken away.  Huxley predicts that we will drug people who are even slightly out of the norm for &quot;mental illnesses&quot; (does Prozac ring a bell?).  He predicts that valuable information, information necessary for the preservation of freedom, will be subtly, very subtly, taken away from the masses while replacing it with a seemingly terrific reward (does television ring a bell?).  Huxley's most frightening premise in this book is that the individual (what he and others identify as &quot;The Great Man&quot;) is being done away with by modern &quot;science&quot;.  He recapitulates for us the great debate between the behaviorist psychologists (like Watson and Skinner) and the philosopher psychologist William James.  Skinner and company believe that the individual is powerless over his environmental influences while James strongly believes in the idea of &quot;The Great Man&quot;.  (In other words did Elizabethan England create Shakespeare's plays or did Shakespeare create his plays?)  Huxley tells us the bad news in bulk before getting to the obvious question What can we do?  His answer can be summarized in one word, THINK!!!  Think, debate, don't accept the packaged and marketed ideas that are given to you like a McDonalds cheeseburger.  In Huxley's words, educated yourself for freedom.  And you can start by reading a copy of this book.  If your local bookstore doesn't have one, then for God's sake, for all of our sakes, find a copy quick.ideas that are given to you like a McDonalds cheeseburger.  In Huxley's words, educated yourself for freedom.  And you can start by reading a copy of this book.  If your local bookstore doesn't have one, then for God's sake, for all of our sakes, find a copy quick.	2001-01-13
US	46778870	R282SFA3NWKQIH	0910489009	658299929	The Dark Country	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Etchison Makes A Terrific Showing	Etchison gives us a great show with this first collection of his short stories.  One complaint I had was that this collection was hyped up way too much, but that is hardly Etchison's fault.  The only reason I did not give Etchison five stars is because some of the stories in this collection were just plain bad.  The title story, &quot;The Dark Country&quot; and the story, &quot;It Will Be Here Soon&quot; were interesting but not at all worth reading.  However there were some true gems that more than made up for these stories.  &quot;You Can Go Now&quot; is worth the price of the book and then some.  It is a beautifully horrible piece of horror fiction.  &quot;You Can Go Now&quot; is a story I have read and reread many times since I picked up this book a few years ago.  If you have not read it, please get this book.  This story, alone, more than makes up for any misses Etchison has in this collection.  But then he gives us other great stories like &quot;We Have All Been Here Before&quot; (which has an amazing twist worthy of O. Henry), &quot;The Late Shift&quot; (you'll never look at the convenient store clerk the same way again), and &quot;The Pitch&quot; (be very careful before you get that slicer dicer and pealer the salesman makes seem so attractive).  Etchison gives us a very original brand of fiction, a mix of King here, a dash of Bradbury there, and sprinkled with a bit of Clive Barker ever so subtly.  Ever writer of fiction can miss the mark, but few can hit it right on the bullseye.  To find a collection like this, it's worth the bad apples you have to go through.	2001-01-09
US	46778870	R62UOS2MCFGOV	0345350685	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Biography of a Modern Day Philosopher	Malcolm X's rise from poverty and criminality to fame as an intellectual powerhouse for the Nation of Islam is a story worthy of the greatest playwright.  In his autobiography we hear the words from Malcolm's own mouth.  What impressed me most about Malcolm was not his charisma or way with people and words, but his intense inner strength, both spiritually and intelluctually.  When asked by someone what was his alma mater, Malcolm replied, &quot;Books.&quot;  This story is in the tradition of Benjamin Franklin, Abraham Lincoln, and other great &quot;self made&quot; men.  The part of the autobiography that amazed me was when Malcolm talks about how he self educated himself in prison.  He says that he went from not even being able to write in a straight line on a piece of paper to debating with a Harvard seminary student.  When Malcolm was released from prison he continued his education, learning more and more each day, making his mind sharper and stronger with each moment.  Malcolm went from being a petty thug to being one of America's greatest speakers and philosophers.  Throughout the autobiography you see Malcolm grow from a man so focused on his goal that he is blind to his surroundings to a man so at peace with the world that he has outgrown his former compatriots who are still blind.  To our great misfortune Malcolm was not able to spread his message personally to the millions and millions who need to hear it.  But he did leave the message in this book.  Reading this book shows one how truly wise Malcolm was.  It shows how filled with love and compassion this man was although many did, and still do, think that all he stood for was hate.  Malcolm did not stand for hate, he stood for freedom, freedom of the soul, freedom of the mind.  The only way to truly understand a person is to hear them speak.  So I beg you, please pick up this book and hear the man speak, hear the man's message.  See if you can feel the intense strength this man possessed, a strength so powerful that decades after his death, it still manages to convey itself through the pages of this book.	2001-01-09
US	46778870	R254MRK3ZNHDWW	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Poetic, Tragic, Amazingly Beautiful	What would it be like to possess all you ever wished for, only to have it taken away?  The quote from Plato's Republic at the beginning of the book sums up the whole of the story.  Charlie came out of the darkness with bewildered eyes, bewildered because he was unaccustomed to the light.  Charlie fell back into the darkness with bewildered eyes, bewildered because he was unaccustomed to the dark.  Was it worth it?  That is the question we are left with at the end of the book.  It is not an easy question.  Keyes shows us all of Charlie's experiences, shows us his soul, and leaves it up to us to decide.  This philosophical dilemma is the core of the story.  And it leaves you debating with yourself.  There are convincing arguments for both sides.  But no matter which opinion you hold, you can feel nothing but love for the character of Charlie.  Pity you never feel, it is too low an emotion to give to this brave soul.  No matter what IQ Charlie has at any point in the story, you only feel love for him.  And when you weep it is not out of pity but out of sadness and grief for you know that if faced with this situation you would have gone mad long before.  Keyes does not only give us a truly great story, he gives us a truly great character which, if the world is wise, will not be forgotten.	2001-01-06
US	46778870	R1158BOFY70I73	0848801938	808273138	001: Tales of Mysterious and Macabre	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Blackwood Never Gets Old	Even though Blackwood died many decades ago, his work never ceases to scare.  Although this volume is missing some of his best stories, like &quot;The Willows&quot; and &quot;The Wendigo&quot;, it more than makes up for it by printing many lesser known stories like &quot;A Victim of Higher Space&quot;, &quot;First Hate&quot;, and &quot;The Damned&quot;(which is probably long enough to classify as a novelette).  All the stories in this book are a real treat for the horror fan in particular.  For the general reader who is not familiar with Blackwood's work, you will soon come to see that all his stories are rich in plot, rich in prose, rich in imagery.  I have yet to meet the person who did not get something good out of Blackwoods stories.  Do yourself a big favor and read Blackwood to see why his stories continue to be read and lauded decades after they were written.<br />Unfortunately this volume is horribly out of print.  Try Amazon's out of print service and don't forget it's sister volume Tales of The Uncanny and Supernatural.  Also do not miss the Dover editions of Blackwoods work, Best Ghost Stories(which contains &quot;The Willows&quot;, &quot;The Wendigo&quot;, and many others) and The Complete John Silence Stories.  John Silence is Blackwoods version of Fox Mulder; see for yourself if you agree.  These volumes will not get all of Blackwoods work but it will give you a sizeable portion of his corpus(no pun intended).	2001-01-01
US	46778870	R29RRJSP1QY0UM	0600303470	197643319	Tales of Terror and Darkness	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Amazing Selection of Stories	A large part of Blackwoods short fiction is tragically out of print.  This compilation puts together two previous collections of Blackwoods, Tales of the Mysterious and Macabre, and Tales of the Uncanny and Supernatural, both of which stand by themselves as great collections.  And wouldn't you know it, both of them are out of print.  This particular volume (Tales of Terror and Darkness) is incredibly difficult (at least it was for me) to find.  The other two books, which constitute this volume, are far easier to locate through any out of print service.  Try Amazon's great out of print service.  For information on Tales of the Mysterious and Macabre and Tales of the Uncanny and Supernatural see the reviews for those two individual books.  It would be redundant to write two reviews for the same book, but before you go to the other sites, let me tell you, and this is without any hyperbole, Stephen King, Peter Straub, etc., etc. are all amateur's compared to Blackwood.	2001-01-01
US	46778870	R1HHAN66FO493T	0679600469	397972214	Bulfinch's Mythology: The Age of Fable, The Age of Chivalry, Legends of Charlemagne (Modern Library)	Books	5	38	40	N	N	Great Intro to Mythology	Bulfinch does a great job of retelling the classic Greek/Roman myths of antiquity as well as the myths of Old Europe including, among others, Arthur, Charlemange, Orlando, and Thor.  One part that stands out is the Mabinogeon which (and this is noted on page 561 of the Modern Library edition) has a Thousand and One Nights fell to it.  One part that appeared to not fit into the book at all was Chapter 37 of The Age of Fable, which hastily describes a portion of Eastern Mythology.  Although this section has no true faults with the information, one gets the sense that Bulfinch quickly threw the myths together and since he didn't have room for them anywhere else he put them in this chapter.  Although it does not take away from the quality of the book it might have been better had Bulfinch chosen either to elaborate slightly on the myths or to not include them altogether.  However, for an introduction to classical mythology for the reader who is having trouble understanding Byron or Milton or Shakespeare or a hundred other classical European and American writers this book is a godsend.  Bulfinch tailored this book to just this kind of reader.  At times it may seem a bit dry, but Bulfinch intended his work to be used as a reference mainly (which is why he included a great index in the back of The Age of Fable).  <br />For those readers who are interested in mythology as an end unto itself, I recommend this work as your main road map through this sometimes confusing trail.  Robert Graves and Edith Hamilton's works are good also but in my opinion Bulfinch outdoes both of them.  From here you will definitely want to look at the Madrus and Mathers 4 vol. edition of the Thousand Nights and One Night (that is the full title) if you liked the Eastern feel that you get in Chapter 37 in the Age of Fable and the Mabinogeon.  If you are interested in the Greek and Roman myths mainly go straight to the horses mouth and read Ovid, Homer, and Virgil.  For more European mythology, Malory's Le Morte D'Arthur is indespensable.  I recommend Penguin's two volume edition but with some hesitation, as the annotation is a bit strange, making you flip back and forth between the front of the book and the back of the book.  However, Penguin prints out almost every major mythological story, ranging from the Medieval French Romances to the Icelandic Sagas.  As stated before, let Bulfinch lead you through this mass of myths, he knows what he's doing.	2000-12-31
US	46778870	R1J8DF2V1E3Z0T	0446306592	264762067	Strange Wine	Books	5	12	13	N	N	You Won't Want It To End	Every story in this collection is truly strange, ranging from the humorous (Mom), to the outright terrifying (Croatoan).  This book is a good sampling of the whole of Harlan's work.  Strange Wine has stories of caustic satire, like Hitler Painted Roses, and The New York Review of Bird.  At times Harlan slips into outright moralizing like in Emissary From Hamelin and The Boulevard of Broken Dreams, but when one reads these stories, one realizes that the moralizing may be very necessary.  But never does it get boring.  In one of his most unusually written stories, From A-Z In the Chocolate Alphabet, you get the full effect of Harlan's strange brand of storytelling.  A great treat in this book is the intro which gives us a stern talking on the dangers of . . . can you guess . . . TV, that's right, TV.  For those of you new to Harlan's brand of fiction this book will give you an appreciation for this extremely underrated writer.  For those of you already familiar with Harlan, you already know what treasures there are in his stories.	2000-12-29
US	46778870	RGG2MO2K3Z4LY	0517558149	217020128	Bodywatching	Books	5	18	19	N	N	You'll never look at yourself the same way again	Morris's trick here (as he states in the book) is to get us to look at the human body differently by having us see not the whole, but the parts.  And Morris then proceeds to break down each and every part of the human body in depth.  Ranging from the obvious (like hands) to the not so obvious (the beard), Morris uses profuse diagrams and photographs to illustrate how special and unique the details of each and every human being really is.  Bodywatching is a wealth of knowledge about ourselves.  If you are familiar with Morris's other writings, especially Manwatching, you might think that this book is just regurgitating old information, but that is far from the case.  While Morris was concentrated on the masses of humans in books like Manwatching and The Naked Ape, in Bodywatching Morris is concerned with the individual alone.  It is the difference between watching traffic at rush hour and watching the mechanic work on your car.  This book will not fail to astonish even the most introspective person.  This is truly a guide of self discovery which Morris has presented us with in Bodywatching.	2000-12-26
US	46778870	RGFJHJMK92M0J	0425104338	807841356	Danse Macabre	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Best Guide To Horror Fiction From a Single Author	I have read many books of criticism and opinion on the subject of horror fiction.  However, no single author has been able to cover the field of modern horror better than Stephen King.  In Danse Macabre King makes the field of horror accessible to the general reader.  There are books which explain the Freudian overtones of Dracula or the anti-establishment message of Night of the Living Dead which is, for all practical purposes, useless.  English and Cinema majors may find it useful, but the general reader has no time or concern for these trifles.  King, while at times veering off topic, gives the reader a road map for the field of horror.  He introduces and discusses writers which the general reader of fiction may never have heard of, like James Herbert and Harlan Ellison.  And never does the book become boring.  King's love for the genre shows in this work.  It is like attending an Einstein lecture on Physics; it may get a bit complicated at times, but you know that old Al will bring an energy and enthusiasm to the subject which no one else could ever hope to copy.  <br />Other Books Recommended:  Stephen Jones and Kim Newman's Horror 100 Best Books (Unusual, Unorthodox, Unbelievable, The Single best book on horror by one than more author)	2000-12-25
US	46778870	R1JHZ4U6CZ6ZAC	0812522990	379935465	The Incredible Shrinking Man (Tor Horror)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sounds like a B-movie, right?	Yes, it does sound like a B-movie and the movie that resulted from the book does not even begin to do justice to the intricacies of the book.  Matheson did not hold this book in high regards, but Kafka himself asked his closest friend to burn his works after he died, so maybe the work comes to outgrow even the artist.  This book appears to be about the external, after all what could be a more external problem than shrinking an inch a week?  However, the real story takes place inside the mind of Scott Carey.  You see the depression and frustration which Carey has at the reality that he is shrinking.  But this story is ultimately redemptive, and once you read the end you will realize why.  This book is just an example of how good Matheson really is.  Works like I Am Legend, and What Dreams May Come(that rare case where the movie and book are both masterpieces) are other examples of Matheson's skill as a storyteller.  The additional stories included in the Tor edition of The Shrinking Man are equally brillant with Mantage and Duel coming to mind immediately.  I have read a number of Matheson's short stories, they are what introduced me to this writer in the first place, and so far I have not read a bad short story from this writer.  Matheson is one of those rare finds, that of a truly great writer.  Don't just read this book, read everything you can find by Matheson.  {Buyer Beware: You may want to start with Hell House rather than this work.  See my review of Hell House for reasons why.}	2000-12-24
US	46778870	R1OT2D6IQVIJRL	0871401754	716097274	The Story of Mankind	Books	5	77	81	N	N	My Childhood Love	All of us have that book which we remember fondly from childhood, that one book we saw in the school library which we wish were ours so we could keep it in our own private place and read over and over again.  Van Loon's Story of Mankind is that book for me.  Van Loon does a tremendous service to the study of history.  Even though this is a childrens book Van Loon does not ignore or alter the facts of history so that he can comfort instead of educate the child who may be reading the book.  And even though the book reads like one big bedtime story, Van Loon always tries to remain objective and never force his opinion on the reader.  When he talks about Napolean he makes it very obvious that he does not like the man or what he stood for, but he also tells the reader that his grandfather fought alongside the man and that he(Van Loon) would have probably fought alongside him as well, that's just the kind of man Napolean was.  At an age where you will believe almost anything told to you, especially by a man who has written a book, Van Loon tries to give the child both an appreciation for history and a sense of objectivity about events.  This was one of the first books, if not the first book, that showed me that everything is not always black and white, good and evil, but shades and gradations of good and evil.  I read this to all my nephews, and when they don't know what to read I hand them this book, hoping it will make them a wiser person for listening to Van Loon's lessons.	2000-12-24
US	46778870	RCSHQHW9AE5L1	031286504X	486151984	I Am Legend	Books	5	3	6	N	N	If You Only Read One Fantasy Book	If you only read one fantsy book, read I Am Legend.  From start to finish you cannot close the book.  And that is the strange part.  A great portion of the book is spent with both the reader and the protagonist waiting . . . but it is a wait filled with suspense.  The world Matheson creates is truly a dead world, even more so than the worlds created in books like King's The Stand or McCammon's Swan Song.  It is a dead world in every sense of the word.  On top of the sinister atmosphere created by Matheson you are presented with an interesting philosophical dilemma.  In a world full of monsters, is normalcy the abnormality?  If everyone has gone mad aren't those who are labeled insane actually sane?  This is Matheson's most brilliant, and powerful work out of a body of work that is as impressive as any modern writer of fiction could ever hope to achieve(and when I say that I am including guys like Updike and Nabakov).  Most people who don't read fantasy because it isn't &quot;real&quot; are missing out on a great classic of literature.  So for those of you who think that books of fantasy are best left to children, I urge you, put down your copy of Gravity's Rainbow or Catch 22 and see why books that should have been put in the attic, along with your prom tux and teddy bear, still have a lot to offer as adults.	2000-12-24
US	46778870	RIIUROMJ9TKUP	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant, Crichton Gives You Your Money's Worth	Some people think that action only exists in movies, that certainly no amount of print on a page can put someone in suspense.  If you ever meet someone like this, hand them The Andromeda Strain.  I read some of the reviews of this book with skepticism, reviews that stated that the reader stayed up all night reading this book.  I thought it was just a gimmick.  I was dead wrong.  I didn't finish this book in one night . . . it took me two.  IT IS THAT GOOD.  Crichton writes with a coolness that defies logic.  The apocalypse is at hand and Crichton calmly describes it to us.  It is this journalist like prose that makes the reader follow along.  It is not fiction we are reading, but fact, and we believe this because Crichton does not present it as fiction but as fact.  Crichton does not raise his voice to get attention, he doesn't need to, the story makes us pay attention.  Crichton's writing is so good, it's scary.  Read this book.  Read anything you can by Crichton.  You won't be sorry.  Jurassic Park, Sphere, Terminal Man, all are written with an icy coolness that draws us into the story.  Crichton shows the reader that if the story is good there is no need to yell, just state calmly what you have to say and the reader will scare themselves.  An amazing work, which is what one comes to expect from the man.	2000-12-23
US	46778870	R1A4C4T9CBBTHV	0786705523	816060095	Horror: The 100 Best Books	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Don't Buy This Book, You'll Just Need Another Copy	If you buy this book you'll just have to buy another one down the line.  My current copy is falling apart from the constant use.  The one I had before that still hasn't been returned.  So with the next one I buy I'll be on my third copy in just under a year since my initial purchase.  For the horror fan who doesn't have the time or volition to check out the horror websites or sift through all the rotten horror novels and anthologies, this book is perfect for you.  In this volume of articles by distinguished writers and anthologists you get a taste of everything from splatterpunk to Gothic.  Writers as diverse as Harlan Ellison and Richard Laymon (even going back as far as Poe) get to put their two cents in.  You find established classics like Shirley Jackson's The Haunting of Hill House and underappreciated gems like Carroll's The Land of Laughs.  You get writers who you never associated with horror like Shakespeare(article for Will writen by writer/director Clive Barker) and Melville.  Of course Stephen King and Peter Straub, the modern heavyweights, are included, it wouldn't be a party without them.  Once you see the Hundred choices made and read the articles, you will understand why they are there(even if you disagree with the choice).  Reading this book sent me out to my used book store in an attempt to locate the out of print volumes, but somebody else must have beat me to it.  And I still have yet to go through the dozens and dozens of books listed in the recommended reading list at the back of the book.  So do yourself a favor, don't buy this book, you'll just have to buy another copy and you'll find yourself hunting for books like Sarban's The Sound of His Horn or Laymon's The Cellar.  It is an addiction worse than smoking.  It is a fear addiction, and there's no patch for it.	2000-12-23
US	46778870	R1GP7EXDMOMGR1	034532448X	734682067	The October Country	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Home Spun Horror	When Bradbury speaks you feel like you grandfather is sitting on the porch telling you a ghost story . . . but to the tenth power.  When Bradbury wrote this collection (originally under the title of Dark Carnival) he broke away from the influence of Lovecraft's dark gods from beyond.  No where in this collection do you find nameless creatures from damned regions of the universe.  But you do find homicidal strangers, a boy who lives in a magical palace(or is it?), and a man who undertakes a task which affects us all.  You find others as well, not as malevolent as the others, like dear Uncle Einar.  Bradbury spins stories that happen right next door, not in some nameless dimension.  They happen in the world that we wake up in everyday, and that is what is so scary about them.  So pull up a chair and listen to what story grandpa has for you in the October Country.	2000-12-23
US	46778870	R3DADMSVCBXVOD	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It Should Be A Crime NOT to Read This	Anyone who has not read Hugo's mammoth masterpiece is missing out on a jewel of world literature.  Easily the best novel ever written in history, beating out such heavyweights as Faulkner, Hemingway, Joyce, Bronte, Austen, and a dozen others.  The characters are so real, so full of substance.  When Marius falls in love with Cosette so do you.  When Valjean goes through his crisis of conscience the reader goes right along with him.  Never have I been so swept up in a novel before.  The size of the book (Signet's edition is around 1450pp.) is intimidating at first, but believe me, if you stick with the story you will find yourself at the end of 1450 plus pages wishing there was more to read.  This is truly the best of the best as far as novels go.  However, I do have a warning, AVOID THE MOVIE.  It does injustice to a great masterpiece.  The movie will not spoil the novel but if you read the novel and then watch the movie (or vica versa) you will be sorely disappointed with the movie because of how badly it butchers the novel.  If you want to experience love and passion and intrigue and miracles READ THIS BOOK!	2000-12-21
US	46778870	R341ZR36N9QO8B	0195124995	965727335	For Cause and Comrades: Why Men Fought in the Civil War	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Superfluous material lowers point value	The Chapter in the book entitled &quot;Vengance Will Be Out Motto&quot; seemed, to me, to be obvious material.  It took McPherson an entire chapter to tell the reader that the armies fought each other because they were angry.  This chapter and the fact that every now and then McPherson repeats points he already covered are the only negative aspects to the book.  The repetition, by the way, did not seem to be for emphasis on that particular point.  However, the excerpts from soldiers diaries and letters would make this book worth purchasing if it had nothing else in besides that.  McPherson also raises interesting questions, like how much of a part did the Confederates Christian faith keep them fighting after Gettysburg and even after gruesome battles like Cold Harbor and the Wilderness.  McPherson suggests that the only reason the Confederacy still had any gas left in them to keep going another two years after Gettysburg was because of their strong religious belief.  It is a wonderful what if question for the Civil War buff.  If you are a Civil War enthusiasts I would recommend (if you don't already know) Shelby Footes amazing writings on the war.  For the general reader, nothing beats Michael and Jeff Shaara's beautiful works about the Civil War.	2000-12-21
US	46778870	R2XAWU3AJAPB6J	002028361X	474715459	Deathbird Stories	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Harlan At His Best	For those fans of Ellison, you will not be disappointed, for those of you not familiar with Ellison, this one will have you hitting the used book stores in a vain hope of finding more fodder for your mind.  (Don't bother looking, I already hit every book store myself.)  Reading this book is like seeing Mohammed Ali box or Stevie Ray Vaughn play the guitar, you get the feeling of seeing the best at his best.  Every story in this collection is a gem, some more than others.  &quot;The Whimpering of Whipped Dogs&quot; is a classic in and of itself.  &quot;The Deathbird&quot; is the most amazing story ever created by a fantasy writer and I say this with no hyperbole.  Go out and get this book . . . NOW!  It will change the way you view the world and yourself.  Other books make this promise, Deathbird Stories is the only book I've ever read that actually delivers.	2000-12-21
US	46778870	RSN4ITBJ9UMC0	0321043723	153789185	Eleanor Roosevelt: A Personal and Public Life (2nd Edition)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Good Overview But For Depth Look Elsewhere	Youngs's biography is an average attempt to describe this great woman's life and I do not mean &quot;average&quot; in a derogatory sense.  This book hits all the main points of Eleanor's life and accomplishments from before her birth up to her death.  It remains objective throughout most of the book but Youngs does not bring any enthusiasm to the womans life.  The few times when Youngs voice seems to be asserting itself, it is to criticize Eleanor.  One example is when Youngs insinuates that Eleanor's work in the NYC skids was just a rich girl trying to slum.  Youngs made it seem like Eleanor never cared about the poor because she could never truly know them.  He may have a point, but he did not use that same emotion when he was describing Eleanor's work as First Lady during the Great Depression.  I would have liked to seen a little more energy from Youngs but I cannot complain about the information in his book.  For those of you wanting a good, fairly objective, overview of Eleanor's life, Youngs book is just for you.  For those who like their biographer to throw their two cents into the book you might want to look elsewhere.	2000-12-21
US	46778870	R2XSSQGV9N1W6U	0781206618	359155626	Outline of History	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Gave Me a Love for History	Wells is, above all else, a storyteller.  And decades before history professors were telling their students to use a narrative approach (i.e. a storyteller approach) to history, Wells was using the approach like a true master.  Without this book I would have never gained the love for history which I now have.  Wells showed me that history is a vibrant, fluid, and valuable resource which much too often goes untapped.  Throughout the Outline he sprinkles his own philosophy which is basically, that education to the masses will make this world the utopia we so wish it could be.  Like the great social thinkers (Rousseau comes to mind) Wells teaches us that true freedom exists in our minds and that if we milk the lessons of history for all their worth then maybe we can have a better future.	2000-12-21
US	46778870	R20MDPO910GRCH	0882860542	672225133	The Flivver King: A Story Of Ford-America	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Sinclair's Horribly Underrated Gem	Sinclair, known mainly for The Jungle, has created a masterpiece of proletarit literature.  As in The Jungle Sinclair uses the guise of a storyteller to warn the working population that where there is a false idol created by gold there is a hell on earth as a result.  Sinclair's overriding message is simple: where there is the extremely rich, there is the extremely poor.  Unlike Karl Marx or others like Marx, Sinclair doesn't force the message down the readers throats, he slips a little of the message into our drink and before we know it we are inebriated with his viewpoint.  The book is about 120 pages but in those short few pages you meet and come to care about characters like Abner Shutt, Tom Shutt, and even the antagonist Henry Ford, the Flivver King himself.  Sinclairs greatest gift as a storyteller is his ability to make us empathize, not just sympathize, with the characters.  By the end of the story we don't just know what it might have been like to be those people, we know exactly what it was like because for a few moments Sinclair made us become those people.  Not only does this book give us tangible characters, it also gives us a tangible atmosphere of early 20th Century America.  This book was instrumental in the founding of the union movement that swept America for a very good reason.  Read it and find out why it is as important now as it was then.  Read it and find a cure for apathy.	2000-12-21
US	46778870	R2SNCWAAN8TFV6	0060812451	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Best English Translation I've Read So Far	The title of the review speaks for itself, Mitchell's translation of the Tao Te Ching is the most lucid, penetrating, and beautiful english translation of this book I have ever read.  I was introduced to this book about five years ago and have read many translations of this one book and Mitchell's comes closest to the beauty which the Tao Te Ching is meant to convey.  For the average reader no other translation beats Mitchell's.	2000-12-20
US	46778870	RASTHL4S5JWAI	014043044X	782642917	002: Le Morte d'Arthur: Volume 2 (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Wealth of legends but can we have some annotation please?!	Both Volumes 1 and 2 of Penguins Le Morte D'Arthur were filled with an endless fountain of legends and reading these books one knows why it provided inspiration for writers throughout the centuries.  The sub plots alone (ex: King Mark and Sir Tristam's love for Isoud and Sir Palomides internal and external battles) provide the aspiring writer with a wealth of plots and ideas.  But for the love of God Penguin could have included some clear annotation throughout the book.  The footnotes are in dire need of a major overhaul.  All Penguin gives us is a few pages of translation for the more obscure words, but the reader has to go back and forth between the story and the dictionary.  To put it simply it's an enourmous pain to do this.  A system of annotation similar to Signet's publishing of Paradise Lost &amp; Regained (which is also an excellent copy of this classic which I highly recommend) would have put this set of books up to five stars. Once you get past the obscure English the book becomes surprisingly easy to read, far easier than Shakespeare or Chaucer.  Malory, obviously, was not a writer like Chaucer but he did do us a favor and put the bulk of the French legends into a handy volume so we wouldn't have to search through obscure Old French romances.  So think of this more as an anthology rather than a novel.  For those of you struggling through the text, as I did, you can skip to almost any part of the book (except the very first and very last part) and the story you will read will make sense (this is of course assuming you understand the obscure English).	2000-12-20
US	46778870	R1SE8Y2AAOACX1	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Good for beginners, More Advanced Players skip this level	Matheson, usually an amazing storyteller, falls short on this one novel.  The story had an amazing set-up, very Jamesian history.  I read the first hundred pages without taking a break then after that the story sort of lost the energy it started out with.  All three stars are for the first hundred pages, give or take a few pages.  The history of Belasco House that Matheson describes is amazingly rich and sinister, it was Matheson writing at his best.  But then the middle and last part of the book had the reader waiting, and it was a wait without any suspense that readers of Matheson normally expect from his stories.  The ending seemed hastily thrown together as if Matheson didn't know exactly how to finish the story.  However, I have read a great portion of Matheson's body of work and I have been disappointed, thus far, with this one novel only.  For those readers who are familiar with Matheson and have read some of his work, especially those of you who have only read his short stories, please skip this novel as it will leave a bad taste in your mouth for Matheson's work which is on the average very excellent.  However, for those of you who know nothing about Matheson or are just familiar with him by seeing his name on the credits of Twilight Zone episodes start off with this novel as it will give you a greater appreciation for his other works.  I highly recommend The Shrinking Man (also under the title The Incredible Shrinking Man), and I Am Legend along with any number of his short stories.  You will not be disappointed with his other works, guarenteed.	2000-12-20
