US	46826133	RCB7F5THYNGHX	0972456279	777305220	The Team	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Love Conquers All	Dawson Perkins' novel, The Team is the story of a young woman fighting to become a survivor instead of a victim whose sensuality and innocence was stolen at the hands of another. <br /> <br />Gwen Fagan is a no-nonsense, successful CPA on the fast track at Talbot and Talbot in Atlanta until Xavier Dean, an ex-basketball player and instant reminder to Gwen's ill-fated past reappears.  When Gwen and Xavier are assigned to a project, the nightmares of rape resurface, but quickly dissolve when Xavier makes his intentions known.  Gwen cannot ignore the physical and intellectual attraction she feels for Xavier and a love affair emanates.  Things are great until Xavier begins probing into Gwen's past relationships and the reason behind her aloofness.   Gwen fights hard to keep that part of her past a secret, but things begin to unravel when Terry (Xavier's former teammate) is charged with raping an Atlanta woman, which causes a media frenzy.  Gwen must face the truth by identifying Terry as her rapist at a college party years ago - the same party she first spotted Xavier, while being savaged by Terry.  Will Xavier believe Gwen or will she continue as a prisoner in her mind, blaming herself for the incident that changed her life - the incident that may cost her the man who finally helped her to trust again and begin life anew.   <br /> <br />The Team is an engaging debut.  Not only did I feel for the protagonist, I empathized with Xavier and the emotional turmoil of loving a woman, paralyzed by the demons of her past.  However, there were times I felt the story was stretched too thin and the transition from past to present confounding.  I found myself losing interest about midway and felt a few chapters were telling versus showing and could have been omitted.  Where the story redeemed itself was near the end. You begin to see Gwen as a woman not only tormented, but understand the psychotic state from such a vicious crime.  Overall, Dawson Perkins has created not only an entertaining contemporary love story, but one that introduces her as an author to watch! <br /> <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster <br />APOOO Bookclub	2004-08-04
US	46826133	R3K4VTNL0RUDY5	0974139408	43551489	A Life to Remember	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Wild Ride &amp; Highly Recommended	Azarel's debut, A LIFE TO REMEMBER, is a remarkable fictional story of life in prison at Dunnridge State Correctional Facility.  Divine Jones and Niko were running buddies on the streets of Portsmouth, Virginia in between embezzling $1.5 million from U.S. Savings and Loan.  Divine proclaims his innocence to anyone who will listen, all while Niko adapts to life on the inside and quickly gains respect from other inmates.  When convict and rival Ed Jones is found murdered in a shower stall, Divine is Dunnridge's prime suspect and immediately ushered to protective custody.  Proclaiming his innocence once again, Divine reaches out to Niko for answers and support only to find Niko uncommunicative, leaving Divine to stand alone.  Fearing retaliation from Ed Jones' crew and additional sentencing, Divine is not sure whom he can trust when he receives word he has been labeled a snitch, murderer and the reason for Niko's incarceration.  Rumors and lies are being spread all over Cell Block C and Divine is caught in the middle of a conspiracy to indict other felons.  Whom can he trust and who is plotting his demise?  Divine realizes he can trust no one, not even the unscrupulous Correction Officers at Dunnridge.  <br />A LIFE TO REMEMBER is an exceptional piece written by a prolific author.  In one instant a man's life is changed when he looses his manhood and later offers it to another without hesitation in lieu of protection for his life.  Astounding!  The distinctive voice of each character was phenomenal and it was interesting in the end how they all played an integral part in the story.  Azarel's ability to write from a man's point of view with ease makes A LIFE TO REMEMBER a book worth reading.  Only the strongest survive, but at Dunnridge survival comes with a price.<BR>  <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-12-14
US	46826133	R3K7LXWRF30SIM	044653174X	39627742	Anyone Who Has a Heart	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Life Lessons The Hard Way	What do you do when your debut becomes an Essence best seller?  Write another one.  ANYONE WHO HAS A HEART by St. Louis native Jacqueline Powell is the sophomore release imbued with complex characters experiencing real life situations.  The story toggles between three primary characters searching for freedom, healing and self-discovery in everything and everyone but themselves.  Zenobia has transformed \\"Discretion\\" into the hottest nightclub in St. Louis, without receiving her fair share of ownership from her abusive ex, Payce, and relentlessly strives to gain full custody of their daughter, Zaire; Theresa, a young elementary school teacher plagued by nightmares of her deceased fiancé, Don, mourns not with tears, but in a bottle of vodka while failing to convince her lover, Vince, he holds the key to her heart; Vince, a freelance editor, tires of watching Theresa self destruct and competing with a dead man, finds himself compromising his relationship, sexuality and health with a tryst which may prove deadly.    <BR> <BR>ANYONE WHO HAS A HEART is a provocative tale with universal themes.  Zenobia is the single mother who decides she wants more for herself and her daughter and struggles to break free from an abusive and manipulative ex husband; Theresa finds redemption when accepting the loss of a loved one and confronting her estranged relationship with her mother; and Vince is a classic example of the disproportionate number of men engaging in acts with the same sex, while grappling with their sexuality.  Regardless of race, gender or sexual preference, Powell's characters are identifiable to everyone on some level.  The \\"down-low\\" theme is sure to strike impassioned discussions within bookclubs, especially those with co-ed memberships.  Powell's growth as a writer is evident from her first novel \\"Someone To Catch My Drift.\\"  I recommend ANYONE WHO HAS A HEART as not only entertainment, but an enlightening story full of introspection.<BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-12-10
US	46826133	RXFVNBVKSVOM0	097295001X	195371044	Counting Raindrops through a Stained Glass Window	Books	3	4	10	N	N	A Classic Case of Cold Feet	What should be a wonderful time in a woman's life turns out to be her worst nightmare in Cherlyn Michaels' COUNTING RAINDROPS THROUGH A STAINED GLASS WINDOW.  While most women beam with joy at their upcoming walk down the aisle, Vanella Morris panics at the mere mention of marriage.  This may sound ludicrous to some, but not according to Vanella and she has memorized divorce statistics to prove it.  When Alton, her soul mate and lover of six years proposes, Vanella is near hyperventilating and filled with angst.  Somewhat dazed and confused, Alton rationalizes Vanella's reaction as nothing but pre-wedding jitters and allows her time to ponder his proposal.  The clock is ticking and Vanella is no closer to accepting the institution of marriage than Alton is to her preposterous idea of &quot;shacking up&quot;.  In the meantime, her family is on the receiving end of her father's verbal abuse and malevolent ways.  Running away from her situation with Alton, Vanella returns to St. Louis in hopes of ending the family feud and her sisters self-destructing behavior.  As the saying goes when it rains it pours and a family secret adds to Vanella's drama, destroying her commitment phobia and altering the dynamics within her family forever.  Vanella finds that while statistics seldom lie there is always more than meets the eye and just maybe she can join the other fifty percent of marriages to beat the odds - if Alton is still waiting in the wings.<BR> <BR>Counting Raindrops is an engaging debut from Ms. Michaels.  What I enjoyed most was the relationship between Vanella and Alton and later Vanella and her girlfriends.  The girls night out scenes provided an excellent glimpse of women's perceptions pertaining to marriage and commitment.  This reviewer, however, stumbled across a few areas that were over the top and ambiguous such as &quot;The O-Theory&quot;, and Vanella's friendship with Synda.  At conclusion I felt the story had a few loose ends and maybe too many subplots.  Cherlyn Michaels definitely chartered new territory and is excellent at showing versus telling.  COUNTING RAINDROPS THROUGH A STAINED GLASS WINDOW  held my attention and will entertain readers who enjoy relationship novels.  Michaels definitely has a way with words and a promising future in fiction writing ahead of her .<BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-11-14
US	46826133	R2IT40XVAZSHQZ	1575669188	413535682	A Journey To Here	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Superbly Written &amp; Highly Recommended	To say I was excited upon hearing Margaret Johnson Hodge would release a new novel this year would be an understatement.  As I eagerly awaited my copy of A Journey To Here, the buzz was already aglow with praises like &quot;you guys are going to love it&quot; and &quot;I cannot wait to discuss this book.&quot;  As usual, MJH did not disappoint and I found myself adding A Journey to Here as an all-time favorite for 2003 with a cast of characters I felt like I have known for a lifetime.   <br />Sylvia &quot;Suvie&quot; Allen has it all, according to best friend, Lisa, and other spectators.  A mother to two teen-aged daughters, Aaron and Monet, and wife of nineteen years to Emory, Sylvia's life is coveted by many, but to her it is bittersweet.  While she loves Emory and would not trade her daughters for the world, Sylvia cannot help but remember the feelings of betrayal and hurt by Phillip, her first true love and best friend, Dorothy.  The treachery far behind her now, Sylvia attempts to bury the hatchet until a ringing of the doorbell.  With Phillip on the other side a can of worms opens that she is not ready to face.  But Phillip is just the beginning of the hurdles the Allens will face within the coming year.  As Sylvia struggles to keep the past in the past, curiosity and a broken heart beg for answers and the closure she was deprived of years ago.  As Sylvia wrestles with what life could have been and what it has become, Judas rears his head once again.  Sylvia is left questioning if the past is worth losing her family as she and Emory struggle to reclaim the rhythm they once danced to.<BR>  <BR>MJH demonstrates why she is a national best-selling author with A Journey To Here.  Hodge consistently creates characters that seem non-fictitious and more like familiar friends.  It is often difficult to create many characters readers can empathize with besides the protagonist, but Hodge's adeptness with storytelling is magnificent.  I recommend A Journey To Here to bookclubs as MJH offers a debatable subject with relationships between fathers and daughters and if an idyllic marriage is attainable after years of longing for your first true love.<BR>  <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-11-04
US	46826133	R18GYSVWTDCJDP	0743244559	203569523	Dating Games: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Raw and Gritty	Poverty and crime set the stage for this urban soap opera as five characters seek nirvana from the mean streets of Southside Chicago but instead wind up in an abyss of lies and tragedy.  From the author of three successful contemporary novels, RM Johnson's DATING GAMES is the gritty urban story readers have been waiting for.  <BR> <BR>Livvy Rogers and her identical twin daughters Hennessy and Alize live a less than grandiose life in the projects of Chicago.  Livvy, a thirty-three year old nurse's assistant is at the end of her rope with her dead end job and raising her seventeen-year-old twins.  Not to mention her on again, off again relationship with Carlos is beginning to wane when she meets used car salesman Wade.  Before long, Livvy is head over heels in love until she stumbles upon evidence Wade tried desperately to withhold from her.  Hennessy and Alize have such divergent approaches to life; if it were not for their uncanny resemblance one would never believe them to be sisters.  Hennessy has plans of becoming a physician while Alize is more concerned with who will become her next conquest.  But the one thing these sisters have in common is former felon, Rafe.  Having served a three-year bid of a five-year sentence, Rafe, is focused on living the straight and narrow and avoiding the one man responsible for his incarceration - Smoke.  With a guilty conscious Smoke becomes Rafe's Svengali in hopes of renewing their friendship.  Quickly Rafe finds himself entangled in a life he vowed never to live again and this time it will implicate an innocent bystander with Hennessy or Alize.<br />DATING GAMES is every indication that urban fiction is on the rise by popular demand.  RM Johnson has given readers a glimpse of his versatile writing ability by incorporating youthful characters with a street life setting, deviating from his customary writing style.  There is always the chance this may serve as a deterrent for readers who prefer a more mature storyline as is his previous works.  This reviewer prefers the latter and at times grew weary of the sophomoric antics of Hennessy, Alize and sometimes, Livvy; however, I must admit DATING GAMES is one the best well-written street life fiction novels to date.  One thing fans can rely on is Johnson's compelling characters who experience a gamut of human emotions as they struggle to free themselves of one another and their environments.  I recommend DATING GAMES to individuals who enjoy urban fiction and look forward to reading more from RM Johnson.<BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-11-03
US	46826133	R5VLLBXMSHNIC	0060535423	634421122	Rules for a Pretty Woman	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Healing Handbook for Women Everywhere	Suzette Francis' Rules For A Pretty Woman is being acclaimed as the book every woman should read. An insightful and inspiring story, with romance thrown in for good measure, makes this debut more than a contemporary read.  <br />For nearly a decade, Lenny has shared herself, her home and money with live-in boyfriend, Ralph.  One would think a proposal is forthcoming, right?  Wrong.  Ralph has plans and they do not include Lenny nor her ticking biological clock.  Suffering from a broken heart Lenny heads home to Madoosa County, Georgia to visit her terminally ill mother.  Instead of a trip welcomed with open arms and Sunday dinners Lenny is treated as a walking, talking ATM by her siblings reminding Lenny why she fled Madoosa County in the first place.  When Lenny stumbles upon her childhood diary, the pages are filled with unkind words and pour additional salt into open wounds.  Rather than wallow in self pity Lenny redefines herself by writing new rules for life and love.  Some things are easier said than done as Lenny is faced with many temptations and discovers life is more than a list of dos and don'ts and some rules are meant to be broken.<br />What I enjoyed most about this story was Lenny's three dimensional character.  We experience Lenny as an overweight, insecure and sad young girl who lived in the limelight of her pretty, elder sister, Rosetta; Lenny's estranged relationship with her mother and the emotional healing which takes place; and lastly Lenny seeking validation, love and acceptance from men.  Through Lenny we see how rearing plays an important role in decisions we make as adults, specifically in relationships with the opposite sex. I cannot say enough about Rules For A Pretty Woman other than it is an excellent journey to empowerment and Francis is a remarkable storyteller.  I highly recommend, Rules For A Pretty Woman.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-10-25
US	46826133	R6DUE40GD3JO6	0972385037	712286045	When Loved Ones Lie	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nothing Is Ever As It Seems	What happens when the truth was nothing but lies and the people you confided in, withheld information from you?  Pat Tucker's WHEN LOVED ONES LIE is an intruiging story of deception and mistaken identity where distinguishing an ally from foe becomes almost impossible.<br />Dominique Thomas is in for a rude awakening when two U.S. Marshalls appear at her residence to interrogate her regarding boyfriend, Jeffrey McDaniels.  As the story unravels, her lover of six years is possibly a fugitive from an Arizona state prison.  With best friends Veronica and Kelly, Dominique desperately struggles to keep her home and belongings from being seized by the government, but to no avail.  As a series of events unfold, Dominique is forced to accept some disturbing facts that Jeff may not be who he professes.  Meanwhile, Jeff is adamant authorities are mistaken, but that song and dance has long lost it's tune.  When Jeff disregards Dominique's probing into his past, Dominique is impelled to unearth Jeff's true identity once and for all.  But sometimes it is best to let sleeping dogs lie as Jeff's identity uncovers disturbing secrets concerning those within her own family tree.<br />WHEN LOVED ONES LIE is inventive with just the right amount of suspense to keep readers on the edge of their seats.  Dominique is an excellent example of women who must fight to become independent after losing themselves in a man in order to survive.  However, her naivety is cumbersome at times and you want to shout &quot;girl, get over and on with it.&quot;  The ending was a bit of a deterrent as I felt it was wrapped up quickly with quite a few loose ends.  Aside from what I found to be a faus pax, readers will not be disappointed as there are many nail biting moments that will leave you bewildered.  I definitely recommend WHEN LOVED ONES LIE and look forward to Ms. Tucker's sophomore release.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-10-24
US	46826133	R1KID4RM6L5JJV	0974156507	353497405	Matters of the Heart	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Getting To The Heart of the Matter	Nurse Katilla Richardson and Dr. Kenneth Michaels are trained professionals at Heartland Memorial Hospital.  And as any professional knows you should never mix business with pleasure, especially when business involves saving lives.  Find out what happens when two people jeopardize their morals and integrity, all in the name of love in Sabrina McAfee's Matters of the Heart.   <br />Katilla is sexy, attractive and independent.  Recovering from her breakup with former NFL superstar, Brendan, Katilla is focused on becoming a Physician Assistant.  This is harder than it seems since the school only admits the top twenty-five candidates.  As if on cue an emergency surgery catapults Katilla face to face with the handsome, Dr. Kenneth Michaels.  The same Dr. Michaels who serves on the board of admissions at Orlando's leading school of  medicine.  Determined to ensure her interview with the board, Katilla begins her ploy of seduction with Kenneth as her bait.  <br />Kenneth is Heartland Memorial's most prominent surgeon and in the midst of mourning the loss of his beloved wife, LeAnn.   Katilla's flirting and lack of professionalism leaves Kenneth  appalled; but his callous attitude adds fuel to her fiery game of enticement.  Before long, Kenneth's charisma alters her modus operandi and Katilla falls head over heels in love.  Out of nowhere a skeleton threatens to come out of the closet that could forfeit their plans of happiness.  The perpetrators involved are questionable and so is Kenneth and Katilla's love for one another.<br />With the voice of a seasoned author, Sabrina McAfee's Matters of the Heart packs a powerful punch.  Although somewhat formulaic in its inception, McAfee kept me riveted with the subplots at conclusion.   I cannot go without stating McAfee's use of numerous characters was phenomenal and each were fully developed; I walked away with a sense of closure for all. Katilla's portrayal as the antagonistic character was even more intriguing and a nice reprieve from the norm.  McAfee's debut is overflowing with romance, suspense, drama and humor.  Matters of the Heart has something for everyone and is a surefire debut for this talented new voice.  <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-10-14
US	46826133	R297IZZIYZK1VS	0743247183	62904842	Baggage Claim: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Always A Bridesmaid, Never A Bride	Renowned playwright, David E. Talbert makes a grand entrance into the publishing arena with debut release, Baggage Claim.  Talbert's quick-witted dialogue and zany characters provide front row entertainment for an otherwise preposterous romance.   <br />According to the women in Montana Moore's family, you are not a lady until you marry and not a woman until you have birthed at least two children.  At thirty-five years of age, flight attendant Montana Moore is neither and with meager prospects.  Baby sister, Sheree, announces her engagement to a promising physician and this sends our protagonist on a thirty-thousand mile expedition, with thirty days to charm a potential suitor into her fiancé.  With the aid of cronies, Sam and Gail , Montana is whisked off to the Big Apple for an overdue makeover and begins her search high in the friendly skies from New York to California in search of prince charming.  <br />Whom will she choose?  Damon Diesel, a P. Diddy wanna-be; Reverend Curtis P. Merewether and his colorful wardrobe; pompous Councilman, Langston Jefferson Battle III; or Quinton Jamison, brandishing trinkets and a trip around the world.  The clock is ticking as Montana finds her prospects are as wacky as her plan and true love could possibly be worth waiting for.  <br />Outrageously funny...witty and charming, Baggage Claim is a must read.   From the onset, Talbert lured me in with the prologue and captured me with chapter one.  Talbert's debut reminds me of the adage, &quot;never judge a book by its cover.&quot;  I highly recommend Baggage Claim.  Chick lit does not get any better than this!<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-10-11
US	46826133	R1PQQVG1Q1UHQW	1881524442	429597405	The Ebony Tree	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Mother's Tale	Maxine E. Thompson's, The Ebony Tree, vividly depicts the coming of age of the Shepherd family in Delrey, Michigan during the oppressive 1950's.  The Ebony Tree narrates the sometimes woeful and disconcerting tales of matriarch, Jewel Shepherd.  A woman who sacrificed aspirations and individuality to rear a family during the darkest moments in her life.<br /><br />It is 1993 and Imani Shepherd puts her journalistic training to use by interviewing her elderly parents regarding their lineage.  Instead of a family gushing with pride, her mother, Jewel is tight-lipped and filled with indignity.  Through hesitancy, Jewel relates the story of abandonment by her mother, Luralee; tutelage from Aunt Beulah that boys are superior to girls; husband Solly's infidelity and drunkenness; and the ill-treatment she bestowed upon eldest daughter, Midge, because she was a girl.  A woman in that era did not have the resources nor the wherewithal that Imani has today to be an independent woman in control of her own destiny.  Therefore, Imani would never understand Jewel's feelings of degradation or regrets of leaving her family in Richmond, California.  These secrets, Jewel would rather keep hidden from her twenty-five year old daughter.  Secrets too painful to utter, yet necessary to provide healing and answers for a young woman seeking insight into her family tree.<br /><br />Protagonist Jewel Shepherd is a thought-provoking character; a woman before her time.  Women will identify with her...cry with her...and rejoice with her as Jewel struggles to shed memories of the past and reach for a brighter future.  Maxine E. Thompson's The Ebony Tree is a paradigm of the struggles African-American mothers have endured in raising black children.<br /><br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-10-07
US	46826133	R2JTUGS55LNT7G	1583142576	187392465	When Perfect Aint Possible	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Perfect For Me	From the author who brought you &quot;Living on the Edge of Respectability&quot; comes a hilarious and entertaining look at single parenthood and dating in the new millennium.  Suzette D. Harrison's sophomore novel, WHEN PERFECT AIN'T POSSIBLE, is sure to warm your heart and uplift your spirit.  Vicariously live via Imani Evans and Braxton Wade as they follow the protocol to dating 101 while violating a few self-imposed rules in the process. <BR> <BR>Thirty-four year old, Imani Evans is both mother and father to her high-spirited  daughter, Nia, and on the verge of strangling her deadbeat ex-husband, Nigel.  As Nigel aspires to become the next Oscar-winning actor, Imani toils as lead training coordinator at the soon to be defunct, Daystar Communications.  Between Nia's band practices, their cocker spaniel,  Ms. Pittman, the perils of raising a blossoming pubescent teen, and her newfound interest in church, Imani's life is full.  However, Nia's behavior is bordering on disruptive and a meeting with one of the most handsome, tawny colored guidance counselors you have ever laid eyes on just might have Imani singing praises to a different tune.<BR> <BR>Braxton Wade is accustomed to the cavalier attitudes of most parents when it pertains to attending teacher/parent conferences and Imani Evans fits this description.  After leaving numerous messages without the courtesy of a return phone call, Braxton dismisses Imani as a disinterested parent and the probable cause for Nia's unruly behavior.  When Imani Evans makes an impromptu visit at Nia's school, Braxton is ready to read her the riot act, until he gazes into the face of the most attractive, voluptuous sistah he has ever seen.  As fate would have it Nia's shenanigans enable Imani and Braxton to become better acquainted.  And much to his surprise Braxton quickly violates rule number one - never date a woman with children.<BR> <BR>WHEN PERFECT AIN'T POSSIBLE is hilarious...inspiring and down right entertaining.  Suzette D. Harrison interweaves comedy, real-life situations and straight no chaser dialogue with great dexterity.  Harrison's sophomore efforts prove a good lighthearted novel can be enlightening, inspiring and all that in between.  And Imani and Braxton realize WHEN PERFECT AIN'T POSSIBLE, good ole' lovin' will do.  <BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-10-03
US	46826133	R3QHKX6W71IQL8	141075992X	727280135	If Only You Knew	Books	4	2	2	N	N	In Sickness and In Health	Novelist and founder of BettMarr Literary Foundation, Marian E. has penned a powerfully poignant story of lust and its ramifications in, IF ONLY YOU KNEW.  Tyson Taylor always played it safe until one woman altered his life in ways he never dreamed possible.   <br />Tyson Taylor is in the prime of his life.  With a six-figure income and successful career as a human resources professional, one would surmise Tyson is on the fast track.  Longtime girlfriend Marie is supportive, intelligent and most of all wholesome.  It seems marriage and 2.5 five kids is imminent until co-worker, Zyelle, allures Tyson, with a little &quot;afternoon delight.&quot;  A solitary rendezvous with the mysterious uninhibited Zyelle, sends Tyson on a pursuit that rapidly becomes a jones Marie no longer can scratch.  Unbeknownst to Tyson, Zyelle is harboring secrets that will skyrocket Tyson's world into disarray and causes her to vanish as quickly as she appeared.  Years later as Tyson reassembles the remnants of his life, he seeks out Zyelle in hopes of closure.  But, what is revealed may be the beginning of the end and cause Tyson to confront sins of the past.<BR> <BR>IF ONLY YOU KNEW is a heartrending story told in first person by Tyson Taylor.  In the beginning, readers may feel the pacing slow and story contrived; however, the method Marian E. utilizes to convey her message of one person's action and how it affects the innocent bystander is moving and foremost.  Marian E.'s writing is rich in lyricism and enraptures the reader during the turning points in the characters lives.  Marian E. has taken a socially conscious subject of HIV/AIDS, evoking emotions so explicit, they will tarry with the reader for days to come!  IF ONLY YOU KNEW, is a testament that unconditional love will stand the test of time, in sickness and in health, til' death do you part.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-10-01
US	46826133	R12905KBYUT9UH	096770300X	380652793	Sin in Soul's Kitchen	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hells Kitchen!	Ambition turns into reality, friendships transform into dissension and love metamorphoses into obsession in Andrew Oyefesobi's SIN IN SOUL'S KITCHEN.  This Neo Soul fatal attraction is intense from page one and will keep readers riveted to the pages.<br />Thaddeus Neely Jr. is entangled between two worlds; that of the privileged with their ivy league tutelage and the artistically cultivated.  At constant odds with his bourgeois father, and BAP girlfriend, Chelsea Fuller, Thad puts his MBA from Columbia University to use and opens his lifelong dream, Nubian Rhythm Kitchen (NRK) where those of the neo-soul movement dwell.  Chelsea Fuller is beautiful, intelligent, affluent and despises Thad's hoodlum friends.  When she stumbles upon Thad's secret plans to begin a posh supperclub, Chelsea grows enraged and reality strikes that the future may not include her.  While interning at Channel Two News, Chelsea immerses herself in the mysterious murder of the rich and famous husband of Yolanda Smithey.  Thirsting for insight into the Smithey case, Chelsea becomes mesmerized with Yolanda's purported act of passion against her husband and his mistress.  In some demented way, Chelsea compares her declining relationship with Thad to that of the Smitheys.  When numerous attempts at reconciliation fail, Chelsea falls off the deep end and a series of sinful events unfold.  The question is, is Chelsea the hunter or the hunted?<br />SIN IN SOUL'S KITCHEN is a psychotic, suspenseful thriller.  At first the writing may seem unconventional and starts off at a leisurely pace.  But there is no escaping that the plot was executed with precision.  The climax of this story is the thin line between love and fixation and that a presumed sane person can prove contrary.  Andrew Oyefesobi's imaginative storytelling is magnificent and his characters are compelling.  My only complaint is I wish I had read it sooner.  Filled with neuroticism and betrayal is Soul's Kitchen, where every sin imaginable is committed and almost every commandment is broken.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-09-30
US	46826133	R2R4YBP0VL73DU	0743448847	589894431	Lita: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining!	Fans who have waited for Jervey Tervalon's continuation of the Du Champ sisters will be reacquainted in LITA, the eagerly awaited sequel to &quot;Dead Above Ground.&quot;  Lita is feisty and hot-headed, until she receives an unexpected call from her malevolent Aunt Dot, that her father is on his deathbed in New Orleans.  Lita's demeanor will take a back seat when her return to the dirty south causes her to confront her family's past and make amends with the remaining Du Champs - her sisters.  <BR> <BR>The saga begins as Lita briefly narrates her  family's exodus from New Orleans to Los Angeles.  Husband Winston, their two children and her twin sisters Ana and Ava are often the recipients of Lita's vexation with open palmed slaps and her tossing the first object in sight-with them as her target.  Quickly Lita's family unravels when Ava runs off and marries; Ana heads back to New Orleans with Aunt Odie; and Lita asks Winston for a divorce.  Just when things are bad they  become worse when Lita returns to New Orleans and encounters more than a dying father.  Lita's homecoming is filled with unpleasant memories, sightings of her deceased mother and gruesome ploys of someone or &quot;something&quot; opposed to Lita inheriting the Du Champ family home.  As Lita, Ana and Ava reconnect, unresolved family issues bubble to the surface.  Filled with trepidation, the Du Champ women (with the help of Aunt Odie) must return to this troubled house to set free their mother's restless spirit and to destroy the curse that has plagued this family for centuries.<BR> <BR>LITA is a wonderful tale of family, its dysfunctions and a ferocious heroine!  Jervey Tervalon combines laughter and suspense with unpretentious dialogue and just the right amount of narrative. At times the story is muddled due to its many characters, sub-plots, and toggling between past and present which may confuse readers.  Not having read &quot;Dead Above Ground&quot; served as a major disservice for this reviewer and readers are forewarned to familiarize themselves with the debut beforehand as Tervalon provides very little background.  This oversight causes LITA to fall short in some areas.  Put that aside and LITA is undoubtedly an entertaining read and reminds us that we can pick our friends but not our family members.  Sometimes in Lita's case, she can pick neither.<BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-09-21
US	46826133	R3HCVVPV5E3Y0A	0972800506	543477124	Caught Up!	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Don't Hate The Playa - Hate The Game	Having been heralded by some as the \\"male Zane\\", Winston Chapman's CAUGHT UP! is creating a buzz deserving of its own merit, in the contemporary African-American world of fiction!  Delving deep into the underworld of strip clubs, pornography and betrayal, Chapman keeps readers on the edge of their seats with this stunning debut filled with eroticism, suspense and drama.<br />Determined to leave Des Moines, Iowa and never to return, bi-racial Raven Klein, heads to the Greyhound bus station with no destination in mind.  Sure to find her \\"roots\\" in Atlanta, GA, Raven sets off for HOTLANTA; but encounters more than her roots when she hooks up with Nia, a wannabe model/dancer in music videos, and her \\"boyfriend\\" and ex-football player, Rico.  Quickly Raven is CAUGHT UP! - in the lifestyle of sex, money and power - and later murder as she gives new meaning to the phrase \\"don't hate the playa, hate the game.\\"<br />Outstanding, intriguing and riveting!  A definite page-turner from beginning to end,   Winston Chapman has weaved a tale of deception, seduction and poetic justice so vivid it's like watching a movie. No wonder CAUGHT UP! has been ranked #1 by BestBlackFiction.com.  I highly recommend CAUGHT UP! to readers of drama and suspense, and look forward to future works by this author.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-09-05
US	46826133	R3HM6T5QI9DCJH	0312321880	256645907	The Sistahood of Shopaholics	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Shopping Never Felt So Good	What better way to cure a broken heart than a shopping spree at your favorite mall.  Leslie Esdaile, Monica Jackson, Reon Laudat and Niqui Stanhope present four stories about sister-friends Della, Neecey, Ramona and Gillian as their shopping addictions spin out of control while simultaneously turning up romance in the process.  <br />THE SISTAHOOD OF SHOPAHOLICS opens with a bang in &quot;Shameless&quot; by Leslie Esdaile.  A bad marriage, bitter divorce and unforeseen single parenthood sends Della Reese to Victoria's Secret in a frenzy with one thing in mind- silk lingerie.  Having abstained from shopping and male suitors (both as a part of therapy) in over a year, Della indulges in a black gown while Byron Fulton watches from afar.  Who can ignore the shapely, full-figured woman embracing a silk nightgown with a look of pleasure on her face? Not Byron, and soon Della finds that a trip to the mall was just what the doctor ordered.  <br />Gaining twenty-five pounds is enough to send anyone over the edge and that is exactly what happens to Neecey Ballard in Monica Jackson's, &quot;Please Baby Please.&quot;  A shopping spree meant to cure her ailing self-image turns into a nightmare when Neecey's car is repossessed from right under her nose.  Owner and repo man, Joseph Vaughan, is willing to work out a plan of action but it will cost Neecey more than her car's back payments...it may cost her heart. <br />Ramona Jackson's, nail salon may be the hottest thing in Atlanta, but her heart is on fire for former beau, Kadeem Smith.  In Reon Laudat's, &quot;It Takes Two&quot;, a wedding between mutual friends reunites these two lovebirds and before you know it, Kadeem and Ramona begin right where they left off.  This love affair may be short lived when Ramona's meddlesome ways sends Kadeem packing and Ramona scurrying to the nearest shoe store.  <br />There is no such thing as a little white lie.  In Niqui Stanhope's, &quot;Promises&quot;, prima donna, Gillian Asher, announcesto her Nana at long last she is betrothed to a wonderful man.  The waiting game is over and Nana is ready to meet the groom to be; but there is one slight problem-he does not exist.  In an attempt to find a way out of this dilemma, Gillian, proceeds to Atlanta's, Phipps Plaza mall and becomes entangled in a brawl over the perfect black dress.  Fifteen-hundred dollars worth of damage later, Gillian, comes face to face with mall security and the man who may be her knight in shining armor.  <br />THE SISTAHOOD OF SHOPAHOLICS is entertaining...comical...and outrageous.  The antics of each woman and the lengths they go to are amusing.  While each novella mentioned the shopping addiction of each protagonist, only two stayed true to the premise.  At times, the addiction appeared as an afterthought, focusing more on the romance itself.  Also, one of the stories seemed rushed and in the process produced a few discrepancies.  These reservations expressed, however, did not detract from the novellas as this reviewer found them engaging.  I recommend SISTAHOOD as a fun, relaxing Sunday afternoon read.  Romance readers will not be disappointed.   <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-09-05
US	46826133	RUDELT3K2ODIR	0972304908	449123945	Only Fools Gamble Twice	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Worth The Gamble	Philadelphia native and debut author, Natosha Gale Lewis, dazzles readers with her new novel, Only Fools Gamble Twice.  Ms. Lewis recounts the story of twenty-somethings, Taylor Chavers and Morgan Watson, as they encounter a tumultuous year in their families, professions and affairs of the heart.<br />Taylor Chambers is tired of the drama and ready to find true love for once in her life.  The mean streets of South Philly claimed her mother as a drug addict in precedent years resulting in feelings of abandonment for her and two younger siblings.  Determined to put the past behind her, Taylor relocates to Wilmington, Delaware and falls head over heels in love with consultant, Delaney Love.  Just when Taylor is ready to resume a life of normalcy, Taylor's attempt at rescuing her mother proves futile when her good-for-nothing lover, Winston, reappears full of his old tricks.  Once again, Taylor's mother is involved in the destructive life of alcohol and drugs while Taylor witnesses her family becoming a statistic once more.  <br />Morgan Watson has a pessimistic outlook towards men and relationships when jilted by her fiancé, Mister.  Realizing the error of his ways, Mister, implores Morgan for reconciliation.  Morgan, feeling scorned and humiliated, has no intention of entertaining such a request until a tragedy occurs in the Watson family.  As fate would have it, Mister is waiting in the wings with open arms.  Can Morgan let sleeping dogs lie and forgive, or will Mister realize you only get one chance at a good thing?  <br />Natosha Gale Lewis does a wonderful job of creating characters that are conceivable and genial.  Taylor's voice is striking in how she contends with her mother's resolve to destroy herself by choosing a life of substance abuse.  Morgan on the other hand, metamorphoses into a strong woman through a devastating heartbreak and terminal illness of a family member.  Only Fools Gamble Twice is a testament that good men do exist - even if they err.  Delaney and Mister were a nice reprieve from the typical &quot;man done me wrong&quot; fiction.  I must admit, in the beginning this reviewer was skeptical as there were some pacing difficulties.  Much of the focus seemed to concentrate on the characterization of both protagonists and their entanglements while the plot seemed to slacken.  Ms. Lewis quickly redeemed herself and what emanates is a wonderful story of two young women on the road to discovery and healing.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-08-30
US	46826133	RQZFAUB9FMBFQ	0972991204	26253941	Simon Says Dream: Live a Passionate Life (Simon Says, 1)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	What Are You Passion About	Many people spend most of their lives in unfulfilled professions, working twelve hour days and limited time spent with loved ones, to remain in a position they no longer enjoy.  Job security is almost non-existent after September 11 and the American Dream no longer seems obtainable.  Motivational Speaker and founder of the Imagination Institute, Simon T. Bailey, offers insight of transforming  your dreams and aspirations into reality.  Simon Says Dream: Live a Passionate Life is an inspiring and practical guide to reaching your fullest potential whether professional, personal or spiritual.  <br />Simon shares the testimony of Auke Hempenius, co-owner and creative director of a men's fashion boutique in Winter Park, Florida as a prime example of finding your passion regardless of how much money you will make.  This story was the most inspiring for this reviewer, in that Simon reminds us when you tap into your spiritual wealth, resources will materialize as needed.  Another story worth mentioning is that of Marian Luna Bremsha.  After battling breast and cervical cancer, this mother of two strived and questioned the status quo by choosing a career in the male dominated car sales industry.  In one year Marian became Salesperson of the year and five years later owned her own dealership with an impressive portfolio.  And lastly, Simon shares his personal testimony when early in his hospitality career he declined a favorable offer from Ritz Carlton Hotels.  What may have seemed like a foolish move, empowered Simon to negotiate with his then present employer, upward mobility from front desk clerk into management.  This same tenaciousness resulted in several employment opportunities and Simon's latest venture as creative financial officer of the Imagination Institute.<br />At the end of each chapter Simon reviews the vital steps to living more passionately and a journal to record your thoughts. Whether you are a CEO at a major corporation, on the brink of entrepreneurship or have a hobby you'd like to turn into a career, Simon Says Dream will inspire you to unleash your hidden potential.   I recommend Simon Says Dream for your personal library and to ask yourself are you living a passionate life?<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-08-26
US	46826133	R2WJKHX2DPZXLC	0060536799	451520046	A Love Noire: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Black Love	New York City is the locale for A LOVE NOIRE, a sophisticated thirty-something romance of Ph.D student Noire Demain, and West African investment banker, Innocent Pokou.  One would imagine these highly intelligent individuals are a likely duo, but on the contrary they are like oil and water.  Noire is socially-conscious, studying Comparative Literature at New York University, while Innocent is climbing the corporate ladder post-haste with his newly acquired title of vice president.  As Noire and Innocent move past their apparent differences, (she clad in her natural 'fro and he in his perfectly tailored suits) their beliefs and individuality are challenged on a daily basis by each other, their families and career ambitions.  <br />Under the guise of attending an empowerment meeting at Betty Brown's Bookstore per best friend Jayna, Noire, sat restlessly in her seat while listening to author Marcus Gordon belt out the dos and do nots of finances to the African-American bourgeois.  Innocent sat by her, attentive to Marcus' economic commandments and aware of Noire's apparent lack of interest.  What seems to be a rocky start transcends into an amusing conversation and mutual attraction.  Innocent's best friend, Marcus, is nonetheless too happy of this new union and feels Noire is out of her league as Jayna is excited at the prospect of Noire shedding her artistic and bohemian lifestyle for a more corporate appeal.  All is well until dinner parties and a weekend at Edisto Island on the Fourth of July bring about political debates and social hierarchy amongst their friends.  Immediately Noire and Innocent realize their lives are far from parallel and it takes more than love and a meeting of the minds to make a relationship successful and lasting. <br />A LOVE NOIRE, examines the intricate relationship between Noire and Innocent.  Both protagonists endure a plethora of impediments collectively as well as individually from family, friends and sometimes business associates.  Ms. Turnipseed's vivid imagery takes readers to Côte d'Ivoire West Africa, Jamaica, New Orleans and Edisto Island where she briefly gives history of the Gullah people.  This reviewer found A LOVE NOIRE to be a breath of fresh air and enlightening.  Turnipseed's ability to capture the raw essence of two people who explore their bodies and wits with such intensity but remain emotionally distant is astounding.  I highly recommend A LOVE NOIRE, especially to readers who relish writing from authors like: Terry McMillan, Diane Mckinney Whetstone and Bernice McFadden.   A LOVE NOIRE is what happens when opposites attract and the angst associated with classism amongst the African-American elite and urban intellectuals.  A LOVE NOIRE is A BLACK LOVE.   <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-08-09
US	46826133	R3IV3ZZU4ALVPH	0967071216	428181746	How We Got over: Testimonies of Faith, Hope and Courage	Books	5	2	2	N	N	We Shall Overcome	Trevy A. McDonald and Bettye J. Allen lend their editing talents in How We Got Over: Testimonies of Faith, Hope and Courage.  For years African-Americans have endured racism, hardship and inequality but have managed to overcome through their faith in God.  While reading How We Got Over, I was reminded of my frequent conversations with elder men and women as they shared personal anecdotes.  It is these same experiences of our ancestors and forefathers that have given us faith, hope, courage and the wisdom to prevail over such obstacles in present day.  <BR> <BR>How We Got Over contains over sixty stories of encouragement from various contributors.  \\"Testimonies of Faith,\\" examines this basic but necessary principle needed in our daily lives.  We are reminded that faith without works is dead as contributors share their near death experiences, examples of hostile working environments, brush with breast cancer and economic hardships while remaining steadfast in their convictions.  In \\"Hope,\\" a family copes with the birth and subsequent loss of baby girl Megan due to a condition called Premature Rupture of the Membranes.  Through Megan's passing, family and friends were reunited and faith is made whole.  In the section titled \\"Courage,\\" contributor Lorenzo C. Robertson's story, I Aint Mad at God, reflects on the day he was diagnosed with AIDS.  This devastating news altered Robertson's view of life, enabling him to live with vigor and has empowered him to give back to the community as an administrator for an AIDS service organization.  <br />The rich stories in How We Got Over, will support the AIDS pandemic in South Africa by offering awareness programs to women and shelter for the orphaned children infected with HIV/AIDS.  These stories and more, some of spousal abuse and homelessness, are told by African-Americans who have turned trials into triumphs, disappointment into fulfillment and sorrow into joy.  How We Got Over is overflowing with exemplifications that by faith, hope and courage, we are granted the wisdom and grace to persevere and succeed as people of color.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-08-08
US	46826133	R2TLHST131M5WH	0972137408	749926451	Saxual Feelings	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Aint No Stoppin' Us Now	The soulful, sexy sounds of neo-soul band, MoJazz, is hot to trot in Jacksonville, Florida.  Saxophonist, Maurice along with frat brother and lead vocalist, Jamal, break many hearts on their way to stardom in Luke Thomas' debut novel, SAXUAL FEELINGS.  Simon, Maurice's mentor and surrogate father beseeches Maurice to find a good woman and settle down.  Not ready to discard his player card, Maurice, continues life as the consummate bachelor until he meets her; Ebony Stanford, an African goddess with a body to die for.  As Maurice and Ebony become better acquainted, Maurice's current and soon to be former ladylove, Carmen, does not easily succumb to his newfound love interest and is determined to have Maurice once and for all; but Ebony will soon find out Carmen is the least of her worries.  Her foe is closer to home.  <BR> <BR>Jamal gives new meaning to the phrase a dog-in-heat and you definitely cannot teach this dog new tricks.  A new woman every day and every night is Jamal's motto and it is of little or no concern whose feelings he hurts or whose woman he is with.  When Jamal begins to receive menacing notes on his car window, he is determined to  apprehend the perpetrator once and for all.  Just when Jamal thinks he has identified the culprit of this childish game - he finds he is dead wrong and this time it may cost him his life.  <BR> <BR>SAXUAL FEELINGS is a feel good book of dreams, heartbreak and love reunited.  Maurice and Jamal are in total contrast to one another, and it is interesting to see how each cope with infidelity.  The antics of women throwing their underwear on stage and the performances given by the band were my favorite parts.  Luke Thomas' debut is an engaging work of fiction and one that I am sure will capture the attention of contemporary fiction fanatics.  I recommend SAXUAL FEELINGS and wish Luke Thomas well as he embarks on this writing journey.<BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-08-06
US	46826133	R3OQ6QLMO64CAY	0060536799	451520046	A Love Noire: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Black Love	New York City is the locale for A LOVE NOIRE, a sophisticated thirty-something romance of Ph.D student Noire Demain, and West African investment banker, Innocent Pokou.  One would imagine these highly intelligent individuals are a likely duo, but on the contrary they are like oil and water.  Noire is socially-conscious, studying Comparative Literature at New York University, while Innocent is climbing the corporate ladder post-haste with his newly acquired title of vice president.  As Noire and Innocent move past their apparent differences, (she clad in her natural 'fro and he in his perfectly tailored suits) their beliefs and individuality are challenged on a daily basis by each other, their families and career ambitions.  <br />Under the guise of attending an empowerment meeting at Betty Brown's Bookstore per best friend Jayna, Noire, sat restlessly in her seat while listening to author Marcus Gordon belt out the dos and do nots of finances to the African-American bourgeois.  Innocent sat by her, attentive to Marcus' economic commandments and aware of Noire's apparent lack of interest.  What seems to be a rocky start transcends into an amusing conversation and mutual attraction.  Innocent's best friend, Marcus, is nonetheless too happy of this new union and feels Noire is out of her league as Jayna is excited at the prospect of Noire shedding her artistic and bohemian lifestyle for a more corporate appeal.  All is well until dinner parties and a weekend at Edisto Island on the Fourth of July bring about political debates and social hierarchy amongst their friends.  Immediately Noire and Innocent realize their lives are far from parallel and it takes more than love and a meeting of the minds to make a relationship successful and lasting. <br />A LOVE NOIRE, examines the intricate relationship between Noire and Innocent.  Both protagonists endure a plethora of impediments collectively as well as individually from family, friends and sometimes business associates.  Ms. Turnipseed's vivid imagery takes readers to Côte d'Ivoire West Africa, Jamaica, New Orleans and Edisto Island where she briefly gives history of the Gullah people.  This reviewer found A LOVE NOIRE to be a breath of fresh air and enlightening.  Turnipseed's ability to capture the raw essence of two people who explore their bodies and wits with such intensity but remain emotionally distant is astounding.  I highly recommend A LOVE NOIRE, especially to readers who relish writing from authors like: Terry McMillan, Diane Mckinney Whetstone and Bernice McFadden.   A LOVE NOIRE is what happens when opposites attract and the angst associated with classism amongst the African-American elite and urban intellectuals.  A LOVE NOIRE is A BLACK LOVE.	2003-08-03
US	46826133	RKRHVZW4RB6DU	0970409311	402486224	What Now?	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Engaging Testimony	Camellia M. Johnson openly shares her personal and moving testimony in the aptly entitled memoir, What Now.  Written with succinct chapters, Ms. Johnson broaches on topics such as: an unequally yoked marriage; covenant partnerships; trials and tribulations; the anointing and deliverance.  The opening chapter &quot;Unequally Yoked&quot; narrates the daily struggle between husband and wife as Camellia seeks to draw closer to the Lord.  Following, Camellia recounts the heart-rending diagnoses of stomach cancer and subsequent death of husband Pierre.<br />I must commend Ms. Johnson for allowing readers a front row seat during the most painful moments in her life.  One cannot help but be moved by this testimony.  Through trial and error, Ms. Johnson is forthright by acknowledging her short-comings and provides an abundance of scriptures and quotes to substantiate this; however, in hindsight, the arrangement of scriptures diverted my attention from the story at hand.  My reasoning for the rating is partly due to a lack of editing, choppy writing style and redundancy, which produces a distraction to readers. Overall, What Now is an engaging read for those beginning their relationship with the Lord and encourages readers in their darkest hour to stand on the promises of God.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-07-29
US	46826133	R3HUW1G38KL8ID	097026996X	446316817	The Things I Could Tell You!	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What Would You Do?	What would you do if a loved one became your worst enemy?  At what lengths would you go to protect those around you?  Through the voice of thirteen-year old Cameron Spears, readers experience domestic violence and its lasting imprints no teenager should have to endure.  Through embodied characters and superb storytelling, one can easily misinterpret J.L. Woodson's, THE THINGS I COULD TELL YOU, as his personal recollection.<br />Chicago held nothing but bad memories for Cameron Spears, his mother Anna and younger sibling, Andrea.  As if being born of mixed heritage by an African-American mother and Mexican father did not contribute its own set of problems, the incessant yelling and fighting between his parents did.  Domestic violence, attempted murder and deadly [shouting] provoke Anna to<BR>relocate her children from the windy city of Chicago to Memphis, Tennessee with high hopes of starting over and the chance at a stable life.<br />Cameron Spears has had it rough and his new comrades are not aware of the nightmares he has experienced the last couple of years.  Just when his family becomes accustomed to living a life of normalcy, the Spears receive deplorable news that will alter everything they have worked so hard to obtain--but this time murder prevails and either Anna, Cameron or Andrea are held<BR>accountable.<br />THE THINGS I COULD TELL YOU is captivating!  I was astonished and overjoyed upon realizing that a sixteen year-old high school student has penned a powerful novel of such a disturbing act.  At the beginning of each chapter, Woodson, demonstrates his respect and admiration for literature with inspirational quotes from authors such as: Trevy A. McDonald (Time Will Tell), Sesvalah (Speak It Into Existence) and his Olive Harvey Middle School Principal, Helen Hawkins.  What was to be an English assignment has transcended into a remarkable story of one family's survival and the aftermath of one person's innocent deed. This reviewer expects great things from this budding author and highly recommends THE THINGS I COULD TELL YOU.<BR> <BR>Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster...	2003-07-25
US	46826133	R3NBYH23ML2A8Y	0971814864	52940824	The Cradle Robbers: Misdemeanor	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Some Kind of Wonderful	&quot;Baby, yo' daddy showed you what God look like in a man, don't settle for anything less than God's best, ya hear me?&quot;  Tanya Marie Lewis shares these words of wisdom and many more in this inspirational and refreshing debut, MISDEMEANOR.  Abounding with humor, insightfulness and laugh out loud moments, Lewis' message of family and spiritual awakening will warm your heart and soul.  <br />Eight year old Malena Dawson is wise beyond years and daddy's little girl.  Being daddy's little girl has the obvious advantages, but for Mitchell Sr. and Malena, the love of God is the foundation and blessing of their relationship.  In one moment everything changes when a deadly accident at work involving Mitchell leaves Malena fatherless.  Too young to understand the implications of death and the anguish her mother would undergo due to Mitchell's demise, Malena aimlessly walks around in search of daddy, only daddy never returns.  Experiencing hardship in their small town of Ft. Knoxsville, Mississippi, little Malena decides it is time to ask God for a &quot;favor.&quot;  It is this favor that relocates the Dawson family to the big city of Biloxi, Mississippi with the hopes of starting over and introduces Malena to a young man that will impact her life as she knows it.  <br />Ten year old Gary Carpenter is a unique young man.  Full of wisdom, knowledge and understanding in the things of God, Gary is quickly drawn to Malena's spirit and what he often refers to as the bright light that encompasses her.  Malena being four years his senior and turned off by Gary's know it all persona refers to him as the young &quot;smelly bible boy&quot; and discounts Gary's displays of affection.  As Malena and Gary mature into young adults, Malena becomes more worldly while Gary remains faithful to his teachings of abstinence, spiritual commitment and the promise that one day he and Malena will be together. <br />MISDEMEANOR is a beautiful debut from Tanya Marie Lewis.  Through trials and triumphs, Malena and Gary experience the heartache of first loves and the temptations of worldliness.  As the first contributor to Sadorian Publications' trilogy, &quot;The Cradlerobbers&quot;, Ms. Lewis has definitely set the stage for this highly anticipated series.  MISDEMEANOR is enriching and speaks to the hearts of young men and women who have believed and stood on the promises of God.  Written with elements of family, hope, salvation and romance, Ms. Lewis clearly demonstrates that Christian Inspirational Fiction has emerged.  Through the voice of Grant Carpenter readers will be comforted to know God is not slack concerning his promise and through the voice of Malena Dawson God will meet you where you are!<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-07-17
US	46826133	RXWSHNP707G4I	0971227829	979078786	Mary's Little Lamb (A Mick Hart Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Apples Don't Fall Far From The Tree	Odelot, Ohio is in the midst of history when citizens elect John Lincoln as its first African-American mayor.  Two missing teens and a murdered woman turn up the heat when one of the missing teens is the mayor's daughter, Brook, and the other is Sapphire, the daughter of infamous, Mary Jane Jenkins.  Returning with his memorable characters in \\"All About Mary,\\" Lawrence Christopher takes readers on a wild chase of who dunnit in his follow up novella, MARY'S LITTLE LAMB.<br />Like her mother, Sapphire Jenkins, knows how to use what she's got, to get what she wants.  36-25-40 is not her locker combination, but the measurements of this voluptuous pubescent teen.  When Sapphire's adoptive father, Perry Rogers, contacts PI Mick Hart to locate the missing teen, Mick discards his reluctance and jumps on the fast track to obtain<br />the whereabouts of Sapphire Jenkins.  Through a maze of lies and deceit Mick forges ahead turning up child pornography, the Internet and a dead body all in a days work.  What do two teens from different sides of the track have in common and what is the catalyst that ties them together?  Will Mick find Sapphire and Brook before it is too late?  The bigger question is who is responsible for the murdered woman and WHY?  Mary's Little Lamb (Sapphire) has all of the answers, but its up to PI Mick Hart to find out.<br />MARY'S LITTLE LAMB is fast-paced...intriguing ..and cunning!  A fascinating addition to the Mick Hart series fans have grown accustomed to.  Lawrence Christopher weaves romance, abstruseness and current societal issues of child pornography and the Internet with deft and plausibility.  Having not been a fan of mystery reads, Lawrence Christopher has quickly opened the door for this reviewer and I look forward to experiencing more by this author. Don't let the title fool you.  This Mick Hart cliff-hanger is far from the nursery rhyme of a docile little lamb.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-06-30
US	46826133	R2NST0IN63PLUJ	1403364931	25054635	Sins from the Past	Books	3	0	0	N	N	All Is Fair In Love & War	Bad things happen in threes when it comes to J. Aundre Clinton's, Sins From The Past.  January symbolizes for most of us a fresh start and the old adage \\"out with the old and in with the new.\\"  For Dae'Mon Greene, the new year of 1988 is full of surprises, pain and betrayal.<br />Living in reclusion from intimate relationships has been Dae'Mon Greene's lifestyle for the past five years.  But when a chance encounter at a New Years Eve party with best friends, Kevyn and Justice, offer up romance with Milton Parker, sparks fly and so do fists before the night ends.  Kevyn has chased Milton for three years, and Milton has chased Dae'Mon for nearly as long.  Throwing caution to the wind, Dae'Mon and Milton begin a torrid love affair as Kevyn broods in anger with promises of bodily harm.  Dae'Mon has finally found love, hope and prosperity until an accident forces Milton to divulge a secret he has known for three years.<br /><br />Sins From The Past is a glimpse in the life of Dae'Mon Greene and his quest for true love.  For this reviewer the homosexual theme was not as profound as the love story itself; however, the stereotypical behavior of gay men rang loud and clear and over the top.  While characterization between Dae'Mon and Milton was excellent the story suffered from an underdeveloped plot causing this reader to feel disjointed near the end.  Nevertheless, J. Aundre Clinton captured my attention emitting feelings of compassion for his male protagonist. I will follow up with Dae'Mon and his crew in the sequel to this engaging debut.<br /><br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-06-24
US	46826133	R1Q7Y69WPJ7SWU	0972455302	620928605	Leaving the Wilderness	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Still I Rise	Author and poet, Tonya Blount unfolds the story of a young woman's journey for self-love and restoration in Leaving The Wilderness.  For eleven years, Jordan Baez has endured physical, verbal and mental abuse at the hands of her malicious husband, Franklin. When a night of unbridled passion, precipitated by Franklin's drunken state, evolves into sexual assault, another member of the Baez family is conceived and Jordan's disdain for her husband begins.  Torn between hatred for Franklin and love for her children, Jordan must decide if she will remain in a contemptible marriage or abandon Franklin and his callous nature for good. <br />Tonya Blount has illustrated an unforgettable and emotive female protagonist in Leaving The Wilderness.  Ms. Blount's poetic writing style is both fluid and enchanting allowing readers to empathize with the main character.  I would have liked to read more about Jordan's rediscovery of self as she mends the broken pieces of her life. Nevertheless, Ms. Blount's debut novel will speak to women in the midst of their wilderness experience and serve as a testimony to those who have been stripped of their self-worth.  A must read for men and women alike.  <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-06-10
US	46826133	R25S056IOYBNYY	0964763591	967598944	When He Calls	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I Surrender All	Peer pressure and a Christian upbringing are hard feats to mesh when your best friends are experimenting with sex and boys  and your parents dictate your every move.  Tonya Henderson has played by the rules so why is her life in shambles?  Sharel E. Gordon-Love answers this question and many more in this exceptional novel WHEN HE CALLS.  <br />A brutal attack in a college auditorium is the prologue to this life-altering work of fiction.  No one can make sense of what happened or why?  Paralyzed by fear, Tonya blames her parents for their rigid rearing and becomes withdrawn, shunning her friends and faith in God.  But when her friend, Gary forces Tonya to confront the spirit of shame, guilt and low self-esteem, true healing begins in the form of forgiveness, restoration and deliverance.<br />WHEN HE CALLS is a heart-warming story of friendship, affliction and absolution.  Sharel E. Gordon-Love has created a moving female protagonist and wondrous cast of supporting characters.  Reminding us that we are all accountable for our own salvation, Ms. Gordon conveys this message with ease and artistic creativity.  A must read for teenagers and adults who are seeking answers to the question, why do bad things happen to good people?  <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-06-05
US	46826133	RPYUXFTQ1K0SZ	0972456201	71779565	Sexual Healing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	It's Raining Men!	Reminiscent of Kathryn Harvey's 1996 novel Butterfly, author Jill Nelson's highly anticipated novel SEXUAL HEALING is the black woman's retort to sex in the 21st century.  Best friends Lydia and Acey's humorous and sometimes unbelievable exploits will have readers in a fit of laughter as they embark to fulfill every woman's fantasy while satisfying their own selfish desires.  <br />Lydia Beaucoup and Acey Allen are in their early forties and still \\"fly\\".  Lydia's profession as sr. account executive at a San Francisco PR firm is monotonous on a good day, while ace-boon-coon and proprietress of a small spa in downtown Oakland , Acey grows weary of husband Matthew and their almost non-existent sex life.  Fed up with thwarted relationships and unfulfilling professions, a ludicrous tête-à-tête one Sunday afternoon unexpectedly spawns, A Sisters' Spa; a male brothel for African-American women in Reno, Nevada where \\"a special set of services are designed to meet the most intimate needs of black women.\\"  When politics, religion, sexism and scandal threaten to cease operation of A Sisters Spa, Lydia and Acey must pull together a plan of action or their hard work will go \\"limp\\" not to mention their male companions.<br />This is not your mundane relationship sex-filled novel commonly crowding bookshelves today.  SEXUAL HEALING is a titillating and side-splitting journey of two sister's determination to become the premier establishment, meeting the needs of dissatisfied black women in a safe, discreet and upscale environment.  Jill Nelson's uninhibited characters and quick-witted storytelling will undoubtedly proclaim SEXUAL HEALING as an entertaining summer blockbuster, forming the question- does this place really exist?  I highly recommend SEXUAL HEALING to women of all ages.  Your reading will be totally pleasurable. <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-06-04
US	46826133	R1JIFDEUB3IKPL	0970499515	858505917	Someone's in the Kitchen	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Summer Sizzler!	Make room gentleman, Eric E. Pete is back with a bang!  Claiming his territory in African-American fiction, Eric E. Pete's sophomore novel, Someone's In The Kitchen, is a fresh, hip and often humorous read.  Houston, Texas, better known as H-Town is the milieu for thirty-something Reggie Collins and Neal Wallace as their amorous entanglements are challenged and friendships are compromised.  <br />Memories, evocative of his mother's blatant infidelity and subsequent abandonment are prelude to Reggie's disingenuous behavior.  Two women are a constant in his life: MeMe, a deceased friend's sister and longtime \\"bed-buddy\\", Lila.  When Lila proposes they attempt a monogamous relationship, Reggie toys with the notion; but there is one stipulation--he must tie up all his loose ends in two weeks.  As Reggie proceeds to sow his wild oats, his life spirals out of control, on the job, in the bedroom, and the confines of his heart.<br />A mediocre marriage was not what Neal had envisioned.  Witnessing one too many altercations between his parents metamorphosed Neal into an easy-going amenable husband.  With eager aspirations of becoming Houston's premier restaurateur, his wife Shenita scoffs, and implicitly blames Neal for their drowning financial state and Neal's inadequate provision as husband.  Lacking support from Shenita, Neal confides in Reggie's lil' sis MeMe; but this newly discovered comradeship could lead to the resolution of Reggie and Neal's friendship.<br />Told in first person by both male protagonists, Eric E. Pete has <BR>penned a sharp-witted, urban story resonant with entertaining <BR>dialogue and a surprising conclusion.  I highly recommend Someone's In The Kitchen and embrace Eric E. Pete as a promising voice in contemporary African-American fiction.  <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-05-21
US	46826133	R3IBWHVE1KWMUG	0767908384	490451008	Free: And Other Stories	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Free [fri:] not imprisoned/not tied down	Book's of Hope director, Anika Nailah has penned a powerful compilation of short stories in her debut novel, Free: And Other Stories.  Nailah's rich lyrical writing style explores issues of abandonment, bigotry, self-liberation and freedom (just to name a few) by confronting racial prejudice and social inequality with remarkable candor.<br />In &quot;My Side of the Story&quot;, a child is forced to accept the reality of his mother's fortuitous abandonment despite her pleas of unrequited love and devotion.  In &quot;The Ride&quot;, a white man's enforced bigotry and superiority against &quot;blacks&quot; is challenged after a cab ride emerges into startling mutual respect - brilliant!  Concluding in &quot;Free&quot;, a woman accepts her mother's passing not with weeping and sorrow but resolution and tranquility. <br />Never before have I read anything so deeply felt, thought provoking and forthright as presented in Free: And Other Stories.  My only criticism would be that some stories lacked character development and at times the metaphors were a bit redundant; however, Nailah redeems herself as a profound, bold storyteller, and not to mention a literary wonder!  I recommend Free: And Other Stories to enthusiasts of anthologies.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-05-21
US	46826133	R19J3U4IC9JDJ0	1575668513	338427464	Every Bitter Thing Sweet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Against All Odds	Roslyn Carrington thrilled us with her electrifying debut novel, A Thirst For Rain.  In her sequel, Every Bitter Thing Sweet, Ms. Carrington will mesmerize the reading audience as we continue the story of Odile and Rory.<br />Odile has matured into a curvaceous and stunning young woman no longer vying for her mother's affection and stares of admiration from local male suitors. Four years after the horrid scene by the river, twenty-one year old Odile is employed as barmaid in a dilapidated Chinese restaurant and brothel located in the South Quay district of Trinidad.  Shunning her mother's cries for a better life, Odile's resolve to prove resilient leads her to a path of ambivalence and discontentment.  Rory is no longer the pimple-faced boy next door, but a burly, handsome young man.  Now eighteen years-old Rory is sole provider for himself and malevolent father, Saul, in the small town of Amira. Attempting to bury the brutal attack on Odile years ago, Rory is constantly plagued with guilt and remorse.  As Rory longs for solitude he faces one of the toughest challenges of his life.<br />As Odile and Rory seek healing and refuge from their wounded pasts, they will encounter a myriad of obstacles on the road to forgiveness and self-discovery.  Roslyn Carrington has truly outdone herself in this sophomore novel with vivid depictions of Trinidad and its culture. For readers who enjoyed these two unforgettable characters from A Thirst for Rain, Every Bitter Thing Sweet is a welcomed epilogue to their suffering and quest for acceptance.<br /><br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<br />APOOO BookClub	2003-05-19
US	46826133	R1VU25CTMRGXEK	0446528307	961851587	Leaving Atlanta	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Do You Know Where Your Children Are?	\\"DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOUR CHILDREN ARE?\\" Countless families remained motionless, while witnessing that terrifying public service announcement repeatedly in the summer of 1979-1980. Tayari Jones vividly recounts what is now commonly referred to as \\"The Atlanta Child Murders\\" in her debut novel, LEAVING ATLANTA. Oglethorpe Elementary students, Tasha Baxter, Rodney Green and Octavia Harrison, narrate in sequence as children began vanishing from their school and neighborhoods. <br />Tasha Baxter is subjected to ridicule virtually on a daily basis by her classmates for whatever they deem necessary; \\"weird\\" Rodney Green, is exhausted attending a school where he does not fit in, and home is no place of solitude. At what lengths will Rodney go to escape?  Octavia Harrison, labeled the \\"Watusi\\" because of her dark skin and coarse hair, had an \\"almost friend\\" until his face appeared on the eleven o'clock news as MISSING. <br />Tayari Jones vividly depicts one of the most heinous events in the African-American community. Interweaving poverty, acceptance and social injustices, LEAVING ATLANTA is a brilliant work of fiction told from the voices that are often neglected- the children. Ms. Jones receives two thumbs up for this poignant and prolific tale based on Atlanta's ghastly chain of events. <br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-05-19
US	46826133	R2103ZWA9S1E4C	1575665751	294479303	A Thirst For Rain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Captivating!	Soul stirring, thrilling, and passionate are three words to<BR>describe Roslyn Carrington's debut novel, A THIRST FOR RAIN. Set in the small valley of northern Trinidad, the inhabitants of St. Ann's lives will change forever as each character anxiously anticipates the pouring rains and an end to the valley's prolonged drought. <br />Myra: Sensuous and provocative Myra, struggles with the role<BR>of caretaker to her father Sebastian, raising her seventeen year-old daughter Odile, and her tempestuous, sexually-charged relationship with Slim. <br />Odile: Studious and obedient, Odile grapples with feelings of neglect and Myra's promiscuous lifestyle. Growing exceedingly tiresome of Myra's trysts, Odile becomes defiant and her self-destructive behavior lends itself to a horrific scene by the river. <br />Sebastian: After losing his wife to a tragic accident, Sebastian feels compelled to escort the citizens of St. Ann safely across the bustling streets. Labeled the town's madman, Sebastian has caused more danger to himself and adds to his family's emotional strain. <br />Slim: Smooth talking, high-yellow Slim, is Myra's intermittent lover. Slim has little regard for the occupants of this small apartment building and Myra's persistent cries for affection; but Slim cannot help noticing the budding beauty Myra's daughter has become. <br />Jacob: Former stick fighter Jacob, embarrassed by his infirmity, dwells inside a shoddy row house across the street. Jacob is slightly aware of the heaviness on Myra's shoulders and longs to be her knight in shining armor; staking claim as hero once again. <br />Rory: Rory, the boy next door, has yearned for Odile's attention and coveted Slim's machismo over the years. Only Rory's longing will change the lives of everyone before the torrential rains.<br />Told by each character in concise chapters, Roslyn Carrington has<BR>created an unforgettable fictional cast with issues of great complexity.  While characterizations were profound, I found moments where the story lacked Trinidad's customs and traditions. As a result of this, I did not fully connect with the Caribbean premise, which could have added more depth to this otherwise electrifying debut. I look forward to Ms. Carrington's sequel to A THIRST FOR RAIN.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-05-12
US	46826133	R3KY2QF6RNUZP8	0743410408	45652946	River Woman: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Innocent Until Proven Guilty	\\"The people saying she watch the baby drown to get the chance to go a foreign.\\"  In Donna Hemans' debut novel RIVER WOMAN, the townspeople of Standfast, Jamaica cry in outrage as 20 year-old mother Kelithe Williams remains free after she allegedly observed her three-year old son, Timothy, drown in the Rio Minho River.  Set in a rural community of Jamaica, the citizens of Standfast (stand fast) mourn, riot, protest and in some instances attempt to stone the main character Kelithe, in order to receive justice for a crime they feel has been committed.  <br />Kelithe's mother, Sonya receives news in Brooklyn, NY of her <BR>grandson's tragic demise and her daughter's rumored <BR>incrimination.  It has been fifteen years since she last laid eyes on her daughter with a promise of \\"soon-soon I come for you.\\"  Three weeks before Timothy's death, Sonya sends for Kelithe, but with one exception; Timothy must stay behind.  With searing questions, Sonya returns to her homeland-to bury a grandchild she never knew and face a daughter she abandoned <BR>long, long ago.  <br />We read Kelithe's painful story as she sorrowfully retreats within herself, never fully mourning the loss of her beloved son, and Sonya's quest for answers as the \\"country women\\" relate the purported crime.  What really happened that day at the Rio Minho River?  Could a mother be guilty of such an act?  Could Sonya be partly to blame?  <br />RIVER WOMAN is a mesmerizing narrative, filled with heartrending <br />emotion of a child's endless quest for her mother's love and <BR>acceptance, and a community's cry for justice .  Donna Hemans <BR>expertly intertwines Jamaica's patois with folklore adding credence to this fascinating tale.  At times, I found myself laying the book aside as I shed tears of sorrow for the main character, and outrage at a mother's lack of solace.  Donna Hemans has placed her mark in literary fiction with this lyrical debut novel!<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-05-06
US	46826133	R2Z0RYNE6ZG66W	0465070620	84940396	Mending The World	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Healing the Black Family	Mending the World by Rosemarie Robotham, et al, is an anthology of short stories, poems and memoirs written by award-winning African-American authors. Excerpts from four-time novelist Tina McElroy Ansa's, Baby of the Family; Jamaica Kincaid's, Annie John; and Tumbling, by Philadelphia native Diane McKinney Whetstone are just a few that make up this heartfelt collection of fiction literature. <br />Broken into five sections, the reader experiences the innocence of childhood in First Light; self-discovery and identity in Myth-Making; disappointment and loss in The Shifting Self; adversity and triumph in A Taste of Eden; and finally healing and kinship in Mending the World. <br />Instantly falling in love with the words that danced across the <BR>pages, I read this book in one sitting. The Drill and Dear Aunt <BR>Nanadine are two personal favorites, as these authors captured the very essence of a mother's love and protection and a child's pain and reconciliation. <br />In Breena Clarke's short story The Drill, told in first person, a mother struggles with the independence of her black teenage son in the perilous streets of New York City, while accepting his transition from boyhood to manhood. <br />Playwright, poet, and essayist, Alexis De Veaux's, Dear Aunt <BR>Nanadine, confronts the all too familiar and painful light-skinned, dark-skinned issues in today's black society, after discovering a \\"red suit\\" in the back of her closet she was instructed to never ever wear as she was \\"too dark\\". These hurtful words birthed a compelling and intensely dramatic letter to her aunt of the shame and tears endured as a child. <br />Mending the World, introduced me to African-American authors which would have normally fallen outside of my reading genre.  The written works featured evoked a sense of kinship, community, triumph and love as well as diversity and adversity in today's Black family.<br />Reviewed by Nicki Lancaster<BR>APOOO BookClub	2003-05-01
US	46826133	RS2JWYBRJB8DR	0595010849	344316242	Sisterhood	Books	4	4	4	N	N	OH DRAMA!	Drama, drama and more drama.  I know its a cliche, but oh so fitting for this scandalous yet heart rendering novel.  Alicia McNeal depicts a story of twin sisters Jeanetta and &quot;Nina&quot; Jordan, living totally seperate lives, only to find themselves sharing the same man.  Charles Jr. (baby brother) has a secret.  A secret so powerful that he joins the service to get away, but finds his first love and experiences great loss.  Charles Sr. is not too thrilled with Jr.'s choices. So much so, he can't even look his namesake in the eye or acknowledge him in the same room.  Then there's mama-Gladys.  Gladys' family is going through some hard times and it all seems to be happening in three's - Jeannetta, &quot;Nina&quot;, and Charles Jr.  <br />When life or death is threatened in the Jordan family and a kidney transplant is needed, only one sibling is the perfect donor.  Can they put aside their differences, or is revenge much sweeter?  <br />Reading this book I remembered hearing my own mama say, &quot;Sometimes the people closest to you are the ones who hurt you the most&quot;.  So true for &quot;Sisterhood&quot;.	2001-02-25
US	46826133	RGTAJDNZM0BFL	0967563607	389759441	Working in the Dark	Books	3	8	9	N	N	The Cover Got Me	Ok, I hate to be the minority, just as much as I hate to write/read bad reviews, but whatcha gonna do?   As the title says, the cover got me.  I thought the dialogue was weak and found the characters extremely false and predictable.  The bathroom scene I definitely was not feelin', and it seemed to go on for ever.  I remember saying to myself, I think we got it the first time.  As a woman, I was alittle embarrassed even reading it.  <br />I'm confused as to how the character embraces a past relationship the exact same way it started in the beginning.  Sexually.  I would have liked to seen Charvette walking away with wisdom and self confidence.  I felt she was given an opportunity to empower herself through experiencing those trials and tribulations.  The only change was a new job with more money.  If anything, Tara (her girlfiend) was more of an inspiration. <br />I missed the point Yvonne Grays Nathane tried to convey, other than obscene sex in the workplace.  Unfortunately, I walked away confused as ever.  Not terribly bad, just a disappointment.	2001-02-25
US	46826133	R3D0BU7PVSIXB	034542896X	23634506	Hot Johnny (and the Women Who Loved Him)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	MESMERIZING	First I would like to give much honor and praise to the author, Sandra Jackson-Opoku for writing this poignant tale of life, love and loss.  A wonderful story full of culture, ancestry and family secrets.  Told by the women who loved and lusted after Hot Johnny.<br />This is a carefully woven story told from END to BEGINNING of a child struggling between fulfilling a prophecy and later a handsome young man juggling life's temptation's.  Thrown away by parents who didn't want him, you'll meet &quot;John the Baptiste&quot;, &quot;Johnny the Gent&quot;, and &quot;Hot Johnny&quot; - one man different to many.     <br />I have never read anything quite like this book.  This is not your average quick read novel, but recommended for the serious reader.  Those of you who know the Word, get ready for a bible quoting, foot stompin, church goin' good time.  Welcome a new character into your literary world.  A tale you will not soon forget!	2001-02-20
US	46826133	R3B2NWTZKKLZB5	0684856107	175166568	Sweet St. Louis: AN Urban Love Story	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Huh?	Pay close attention while reading this book, cause if you don't, you just might miss it.  Not a quick or easy read.  This story, unfortunately, I have to admit was a little on the boring side.  The scenes of Sharron and her roommate were intersting, but I didn't quite understand the relationship between Ant and Sharron.  I felt like I continually read the same scene over and over again.  I have no idea, in the end what happened to this couple.  Omar, you left us a little out in the left field with this one.  I still like your stuff, but not feelin' Sweet St. Louis.  And I waited anxiously, too.  Oh well, can't please everybody all of the time.<br />Peace!	2000-12-10
US	46826133	R22EWGW0WE131W	0446605611	920119522	Flight of the Blackbird	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Serious Reality Check!	Set in cultural Hotlanta, is the story of a family's life which is changed after the course of one day.  You will cry, get angry, and wonder what will happen next as you journey through this couple's losses of what they once thought important, redefining what love and family is all about.<br />Faye McDonal tells a wonderful story of keeping up with the Joneses and the resurrection of human spirit in Flight Of The Blackbird!<br />Recommended for the serious reader who knows life holds no guarantees.	2000-12-10
US	46826133	R2ONL6MYTY26WP	0525944834	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	4	0	1	N	N	He Done, Done It Again!	Eric Jerome Dickey, you've done it again!  Can you not write a great book?  Wassup?  Seriously, though, I enjoyed this novel very much.  I like reading about the Cali scene.  Vince, reminds you alot of Stephan and I am definitley feelin' the cameos.  Can't tell who, though, sshhh it's a secret.  <br />Dana is witty, strong, and sassy while Vince is a gentleman, determined and sincere.  Each have what we experience in our own lives - A PAST!   Eric Jerome Dickey offers humor, drama, and wisdom between friends, as we delve deeper into the lives of these characters.  <br />If you liked Tyrel and Shelby, you'll love Vince and Dana.  A novel you don't wanna miss!  Check it out!<br />Peace	2000-12-09
US	46826133	R2SDJMF3BI5U6U	038548934X	909469852	Beeperless Remote	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Disagree Wit Ya!  Funny, Funny, Funny	I must say that I disagree with the majority of bad ratings for this book.  I enjoyed this hilarious novel from beginning to end.  I honestly believe that Mr. Whitfield intentionally made his character Shawn as stupid as possible.  It's called comedy people and remember this is FICTION!  Unfortunately there are Shawn's out there who deem it appropriate to wear a clip on tie to a black tie affair.  The Kmart, Blue Light Special was too much.    <br />Mr. Whitfield let me say that I praise you for going out on a limb to write a &quot;romantic comedy&quot;, and making it as funny and entertaining as you've done.  For anyone wanting something light and funny on a Saturday night, this book is a must read!  I'm looking forward to &quot;Something's Wrong With Your Scale.&quot; <br />Peace!	2000-12-09
US	46826133	R3A6RX1XQ9710F	1575665972	702863233	If I Could	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspiration to Women Everywhere	To some one of the many joys of womanhood is being a wife and a mother. Donna Hill, depicts Regina Everette who wants more from life than taking care of the kids and other wifely duties.  Married to a man she once thought she needed, Regina decides to seek more for her life and makes some changes.  Only problem is her insecure husband and meddling and controling mother don't agree with these sudden changes.  <br />Then there are her two best friends Toni and Victoria.  These women have more drama than an ABC soap opera.  Toni has skeletons that finally come out of the closet and falls to pieces trying to keep her family together.  Victoria learns acceptance and self love through tragedy. <br />Donna hill has written a beautiful story of love, relationships, and the courage to change all in one.  I recommend this book, especially to book clubs, If I Could!!!	2000-12-09
US	46826133	RL3BFJQLLH2LL	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Still A Fan, But......	Ok.  I have to start off first, saying how I enjoyed Lolita Files' last two books &quot;Scenes From A Sista&quot; and &quot;Getting To The Good Part&quot;, but I missed it somewhere with &quot;Blind Ambitions&quot;. I found it very choppy and hard to read.  I couldn't follow the characters lives and how they all came together.  I would have liked to see Bettina developed alittle more.  She seemed very interesting and like she was really getting it together but - BOOM, the ball just dropped with her and NEXT.  <br />I also felt it was VERY HOLLYWOOD.  Lolita, I am still a fan and would buy another of your novels, just cause your name is penned on it, but I wasn't feelin' Blind Ambitions at all.  <br />Peace!	2000-12-09
US	46826133	R3GH4SG74JGSPD	0525945350	378168929	Good Peoples	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bravo for Marcus Major	I have to say I am very impressed with this debut novel!  I purchased this book on a Sunday evening and finished it on Monday evening.  The characters were &quot;off da hook&quot; and funny as I don't know what.  <br />Marcus Major, I am really looking forward to your next piece of work.  This was an easy read and something you will want to pass along to your friends.  I could envision the characters, the scenery and the up and down emotions of this love affair.  Marcus you reminded me there are good brotha's out there, lookin for &quot;luv&quot; too!  This novel was definitely true to life.  Readers won't be disappointed!	2000-12-08
US	46826133	R38HTK5UUCPQBS	1575666952	891466596	Lookin' For Luv	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lookin For Laughter	The first thing I will say is this book will have you crying-in a good way.  I laughed out loud so many times, you would've thought I was watching Comic View.  Every character had something you will remember hilariously funny about him/her.  This was not a fantasy novel but a novel of the things we go through &quot;lookin for luv&quot;, and the friendships we share.  <br />While not giving away too much of the story itself, (following Kevin in his journey for luv, Maurice on his scandalous outings and hoping he gets what he deserves, praying Tyrone's demons don't get the best of him, feeling sorry and laughing at Antoine all at the same time), you will not feel overwhelmed with the abundance of characters or become lost in the mix of reading this book.  <br />This book is highly recommended for a lay back and kick your feet up weekend!	2000-12-08
