US	46899882	R311ZEODIPOBV6	0671458183	851439417	Monsignor Quixote	Books	5	7	9	N	N	PEOPLE OF FAITH	This is one of the funniest and cleverest novels I have ever read. It is also one of the deepest. Behind the clever adaptation of the Don Quixote story to a context in post-Franco Spain there is a dance of ideas, much as Shaw's plays are a dance of ideas, and the questions dealt with are the biggest and most fundamental that we all have to deal with.<br /><br />An innocent and un-intellectual Catholic priest sets out on a holiday with a communist politician, and their discussions, always friendly and courteous and greatly assisted by wine, centre on their respective faiths. The communist faith is much the more straightforward - the ex-mayor, defeated at a recent election, finds the general outlook of Marx congenial, he finds that doubt shackles freedom of action, and that's about as far as his introspection goes. Catholicism is about bigger issues altogether, such as do we go to heaven or to hell for all eternity, and the concepts involved, for someone who really thinks about them honestly, are sufficient to unseat anyone's mind. There is no real alternative to thinking about them, so in the interests of peace of mind what people do is to think about them not honestly but either ingenuously or disingenuously. Graham Greene, like Muriel Spark, was a convert to Catholicism, and like Dame Muriel his treatment of it in his writing is wry and ironic. What he really `believed' is not quite clear and I'm sure not meant to be. Indeed he even casts some doubt around the question of what `belief' actually consists of, and rightly so in my own view. At one point Father Quixote admits that a certain doctrine is one that he believes out of obedience, an admirable attitude for traditionalist believers whether Catholic or communist - you believe x because you're supposed to believe it and you'll be in trouble if you don't. Greene quite obviously sees that Catholic doctrine evolved as a book of rules to keep people under control. What started as religious and ethical teaching developed rapidly into thought-enforcement and thought-policing, but the matter goes even deeper - behind it all there is supposed to be a God whose word the ecclesiastical power-structure dispenses, and this God is not, like Marx, someone who certainly exists but only a hypothesis. How much further Greene wishes us to pursue this line of thought I'm not clear, but for me two considerations follow - firstly what is supposed to be God's word is actually a human construct foisted on the hypothetical God, something that to me seems outright blasphemy; and in the second place we have a clearer idea these days what the Creator has created, and such a Creator is not likely to bear much resemblance to Jehovah in the scriptures having to assert his authority against Baal, Dagon etc at intervals. Indeed if there is one crumb of comfort in the contemplation of such a Creator it's likely to be that he will take little or no notice of our insolence in presuming to speak for his intentions.<br /><br />Towards the end of the book Greene says something to the effect that in the absence of certain knowledge one goes for the next best thing. For him this is `faith', for me it's probability, as best I can assess that. Greene is able, as I am not, to find a sense of `believing' that takes in the soul as well as the mind. When I say that I believe something I mean that it seems to me true or probable, and considerations that bring me spiritual comfort are unrelated to belief in this sense entirely. Greene seems not to go so far, but I venture to think that he's nearer to my way of seeing things than to `faith' in the conventional sense. What is completely unmistakable is the irony with which he observes the way that the devout have of finding support in the scriptures and in philosophy built on them for convenient viewpoints and courses of action.<br /><br />The book is not so much about the rival ideas, nor even so much about what people do with these as about what the ideas do with peoplewho for some reason adhere to them, as if the ideas had taken on a higher life of their own, dominating and controlling the very people who create them and without whom they could never exist. This may indeed be what we call divine in them. What is divine in a more earthly sense about this book is the humour and ingenuity of it all. It is a simple story as well as a battle of ideas, and a touching one too, with emotion and human affection finally dominant over the intellectual side. A delightful book, a beautiful book and I would even say a great book.h people who for some reason adhere to them, as if the ideas had taken on a higher life of their own, dominating and controlling the very people who create them and without whom they could never exist. This may indeed be what we call divine in them. What is divine in a more earthly sense about this book is the humour and ingenuity of it all. It is a simple story as well as a battle of ideas, and a touching one too, with emotion and human affection finally dominant over the intellectual side. A delightful book, a beautiful book and I would even say a great book.	2005-10-13
US	46899882	R21VL6WSFKOXFS	055255104X	171845078	Johnny and the Bomb	Books	3	1	5	N	N	LIKE A PAIR OF TROUSERS	On page 160 of Hawking's Brief History of Time, where the author is discussing string theory, he remarks `in the case of closed strings it is like the two legs joining on a pair of trousers'. This remark, I am in no doubt at all, was the basic inspiration, such as it is, of this book from Pratchett.<br /><br />This is the first thing of Pratchett's that I have ever read, and I learn from the dust-jacket that it is one of a series of children's books. My own childhood is a long way behind me, but on the other hand I can remember - or I think I can - quite a lot about it, and I have some idea how this book might have seemed to me at the age of, say, 12. At that age I was devouring science fiction - where, I wonder, is Vargo Statten these days, and what has become of the works of Jon J Deegan? I had probably read all the Just William books by Richmal Crompton by then, and I would certainly have noticed just how strongly Pratchett's formula derives from them, although whether I would have been bothered by that I don't know. The derivative feel of this book certainly bothers me now. Johnny Maxwell's little gang is blatantly based on William's, with Ginger and the rest of them and in particular the alpha-female Violet Elizabeth Bott here replicated in the polyonymous Kassandra/Kirsty/Klytemnestra. There is even an explicit reference to Just William at one point, in case I had been in the slightest doubt. I am also old enough to spot what looks like a rather feeble attempt at imitating Chandler - `men in suits who listened to little radios a lot and wouldn't even trust their mothers'. Back at the juvenile science-fiction level, the mention of golden-haired Atlanteans recalls very specifically the Eagle comic and its series Dan Dare Pilot of the Future - does Pratchett think that we have all died off or have all forgotten?<br /><br />Hawking's abstruse theories are very sensibly reduced to a vague level suitable for the starting point of such a tale. When time is `changed' (know what I mean - changed?) there is not one future from there on but two alternative futures, like a pair of trousers. The catalyst for the change is an elderly female vagrant wheeling around a Tesco supermarket trolley containing bags that somehow do the changing. She seems to be all over the place mentally, but that's because she is everywhen. She dots in and out of different eras, and through their interaction with her Johnny's gang from 1996 are transported back to the blitz in 1941. There is no enormous ingenuity in the way Pratchett handles the theme, perhaps wisely not in a children's story. He is addressing an audience familiar with Dr Who. However one trouser-touch that struck me as odd was that his 1996 kids saw something unusual in the 1941 schoolboy clad in shorts reaching below his knees. Those dressed to the height of casual fashion wear just such apparel in 2005, and so far as I remember were already doing so in 1996.<br /><br />If I were 12 years old in 2005 or in 1996 my guess is that I would have enjoyed the switching between epochs, and I might or might not have picked up the innuendoes regarding changes in racial and gender attitudes. I think I would certainly have felt there was something a little second-hand about too much of the story, and I think I would have awarded it 3 stars.changed?) there is not one future from there on but two alternative futures, like a pair of trousers. The catalyst for the change is an elderly female vagrant wheeling around a Tesco supermarket trolley containing bags that somehow do the changing. She seems to be all over the place mentally, but that's because she is everywhen. She dots in and out of different eras, and through their interaction with her Johnny's gang from 1996 are transported back to the blitz in 1941. There is no enormous ingenuity in the way Pratchett handles the theme, perhaps wisely not in a children's story. He is addressing an audience familiar with Dr Who. However one trouser-touch that struck me as odd was that his 1996 kids saw something unusual in the 1941 schoolboy clad in shorts reaching below his knees. Those dressed to the height of casual fashion wear just such apparel in 2005, and so far as I remember were already doing so in 1996.   If I were 12 years old in 2005 or in 1996 my guess is that I would have enjoyed the switching between epochs, and I might or might not have picked up the innuendoes regarding changes in racial and gender attitudes. I think I would certainly have felt there was something a little second-hand about too much of the story, and I think I would have awarded it 3 stars.	2005-10-10
US	46899882	R3F29SXW19NHEZ	0007171854	847726074	Shooting History	Books	5	1	2	N	N	'TOO GRAPHIC: PLEASE STICK TO FACTS'	My principal tie with Jon Snow is one of his brightly-striped and very expensive-looking silk ties that I won in a competition for a political caption organised by the Channel 4 news programme that he fronts each weeknight. However there are much more important aspects of his approach as a journalist that I empathise with strongly. Jon Snow was born in 1947, the son of a Church of England clergyman who advanced to the episcopate. His upbringing, conventionally religious, conservative and patriotic, was one that he tells us near the start of the book `radicalised' him, and it seems to me that this expression needs to be treated with caution. He was indeed a fairly conventional `student radical' according to the fashion of that time, getting into trouble with his university authorities for protesting against apartheid. However the long-term outcome of his early mental awakening is not radicalism as I would understand the term, but simply sceptical rationality. I detect no burning desire to overthrow capitalism or to do battle with any establishment, for instance, nor any great theoretical basis to his politics. What I do sense on every page of this enthralling volume is a shining mental honesty that takes him to the conclusions and beliefs that the evidence of his own eyes warrants, and that is what I like about him.<br /><br />These days he is mainly a presenter and interviewer, but that is just how his career has turned out. He thinks of himself as a reporter basically, and he has been around and many states and kingdoms seen, not by and large goodly ones. He has never had any connexion with the BBC, making his first appearance on its airwaves only a few months ago as a guest on a late-night political discussion. I had rather hoped he might have gone into the theoretical issue of independence, bias and impartiality in reporting, but in the event the book only skirts it, and that was all I should really have expected. These reports are the records of a thinking man certainly, and he doesn't need in every case to spell out his thinking for it to be quite obvious what it is, but they are not analysis, only reportage with some editorial comment. What he has always done is to be perfectly open about his own general stance, and I imagine he would prefer to be thought of as `left' rather than as positioned elsewhere, much as I would myself. How, in the last resort, this colours his reporting and comment is hard to say. Not only is no reporter a tabula rasa with political attitudes that are 100% neutral, no listener or viewer is one of those either, so I don't know either whose word we take for it when allegations of bias are made, as they routinely are when any subject of any sensitivity is reported on by anyone at all. Snow was at one time seconded to ABC, and he tells us how his on-the-spot accounts were always checked against versions emanating from the State Department, the latter frequently diverging from his own. It was difficult, he tells us, to get any weight attached to the fact that he was an eyewitness and the State Department were not, and for me also this raises the familiar and incomprehensible issue of how people manage to think in this way. On what basis, or at least on what rational basis, is it possible to prefer the State Department version in these instances? None apparently, but there's no doubt that people think this way and will in all confused sincerity find bias in the only account that has any credible basis. Where the allegations are not sincere the case is really simpler. Snow has a fascinating tale to tell of an anonymous phone call he received that gave him just enough information to identify the source as being the office of HRH the Prince of Wales. This call related to the funeral arrangements for Princess Diana, concerning which a dispute at the very pinnacle of royalty was alleged. Snow duly reported what he had been told, and was refuted by one of the tabloids purporting to speak for Her Britannic Majesty personally. That's the way things are sometimes done.<br /><br />He has missed some stories, notably Tienanmen Square, and he puts this down to his instinctively greater interest in America, Europe and Africa, another inevitable source of bias, albeit innocent and unintended bias. The patent honesty of the man's mind shines through his memorable account of the buffoonish Idi Amin, and it would be impossible to detect any adornment in the story of how he and his crew nearly lost their lives in Kosovo. I have to conclude that there is no such thing as total impartiality in reporting, and that if there were none of us could recognise it. For myself, I'm inclined to place more confidence in Jon Snow than in most of his occasional detractors, something that of course may say more about me than about any of them. He offers opinions in a candid way, such as that Jimmy Carter was too intellectual to be decisive, but he never seems to preach or to sell a point of view. Just as a narrative, this book is not only gripping but a priceless historical record of some of the most important events in all history. Another issue that affects any reporting is, of course, what is left out. This is the more difficult to assess as I don't necessarily know what most of that was, but among the brief glimpses he lets us have of his personal life I note that there is no mention of his brief engagement to the queenly Anna Ford who now presents the BBC's lunchtime news.<br /><br />The final story is the Iraq war, where he candidly shares my own view that it's displacement activity to divert attention from the real terrorist threat and the failure to counter it. Looking back he traces a pattern of incomprehension and continuing failure to learn, due in large part to seeing issues through the prism of the interests of Israel. Does that make him biased? It seems obvious to me, so does that make me biased as well? If so, who are the paragons of impartiality who will put us right?Majesty personally. That's the way things are sometimes done. <br /> <br />He has missed some stories, notably Tienanmen Square, and he puts this down to his instinctively greater interest in America, Europe and Africa, another inevitable source of bias, albeit innocent and unintended bias. The patent honesty of the man's mind shines through his memorable account of the buffoonish Idi Amin, and it would be impossible to detect any adornment in the story of how he and his crew nearly lost their lives in Kosovo. I have to conclude that there is no such thing as total impartiality in reporting, and that if there were none of us could recognise it. For myself, I'm inclined to place more confidence in Jon Snow than in most of his occasional detractors, something that of course may say more about me than about any of them. He offers opinions in a candid way, such as that Jimmy Carter was too intellectual to be decisive, but he never seems to preach or to sell a point of view. Just as a narrative, this book is not only gripping but a priceless historical record of some of the most important events in all history. Another issue that affects any reporting is, of course, what is left out. This is the more difficult to assess as I don't necessarily know what most of that was, but among the brief glimpses he lets us have of his personal life I note that there is no mention of his brief engagement to the queenly Anna Ford who now presents the BBC's lunchtime news.  <br /> <br />The final story is the Iraq war, where he candidly shares my own view that it's displacement activity to divert attention from the real terrorist threat and the failure to counter it. Looking back he traces a pattern of incomprehension and continuing failure to learn, due in large part to seeing issues through the prism of the interests of Israel. Does that make him biased? It seems obvious to me, so does that make me biased as well? If so, who are the paragons of impartiality who will put us right?	2005-09-25
US	46899882	R3LACE99D4XRI4	0394528573	733515885	MAIA	Books	3	26	39	N	N	BRAVO SIERRA	`Tolkien meets Barbarella' was a thought that crossed my mind after wading through a couple of hundred pages of this lot. There is a very Tolkienish map in the inside cover, and none other than Sauron himself was actually a Maia - (I wonder how well Adams had been remembering his Silmarillion). Powers other than human do not actually figure in this book until it suddenly hoists itself on to a startlingly higher level with the penultimate scene in the Streels of Urtah, but we have had to get through 1000 pages and more before we reach that.<br /><br /> Airport-bookstall doorstoppers of books about Fabled Imaginary Empires always run a risk of self-parody, particularly when they contain a generous lacing of fleshly detail about vile slave-masters and their able-bodied retinues, and I find myself genuinely sorry that Adams saw fit to squander his great talent on a pot-boiler like this. Many of his familiar virtues are still here, to be sure. He has real and exceptional gifts for natural description for one thing, he does very well with giving individuality to a very crowded cast of characters, and he is a born storyteller. Nevertheless he lets his storytelling ability run away with him here. The plot is held together in a very competent way, but really the book could have been half as long as it is, or even, (heaven forfend), twice as long. There is no real reason, other than the limits on human stamina and longevity, why this succession of tableaux might not have gone on to infinity. However the basic trouble with this book is the lack of a sense of humour. Adams takes himself desperately seriously - he would hardly have been flattered by the comparison, but I honestly felt myself starting to think at times that Clark Ashton Smith, who is delightfully tongue-in-cheek whatever his shortcomings, handles lost-empire scenarios like these better in his lightweight way. In particular Adams seems to imagine he has particular insights into how women think and feel. Without trying to assess him in detail over this, which would just be falling into the same trap myself, I suggest some scepticism may be in order regarding the astonishing adaptability of a 15/16-year-old girl subjected to a major series of what we would these days think of as emotional traumas, to say nothing of implications that women secretly like the gross erotic proclivities of even the most grotesque and loathsome males such as the High Councillor, a kind of proto Mr Creosote. It's not precisely prurient (Adams is too solemn for that) but the mentality is pretty unattractive all the same.<br /><br />The quality of the writing is good, although too much of it is of the formulaic kind that one expects in books like this from less distinguished hands -<br /><br />`What is it, Harpax?'<br /><br />`My lord, a messenger from the Sacred Queen; one of her attendants'.<br /><br />`Admit her' -<br /><br />and similar tosh throughout. One feature of Adams's style that has definitely deteriorated also is his fondness for inventing his own names for places and people, together with an imaginary vocabulary, in unknown tongues. The seagull talking in a Norwegian accent and the mouse in an Italian accent in Watership Down were delightful, as were the names of the rabbits and the special terms they used. The predecessor of this particular book is, of course, Shardik, and he carries the process further in that, but still quite successfully I thought. In Maia it is starting to be ridiculous, only the author doesn't realise. Maia's friend Occula is made to talk in some accent that appears to consist mainly of dropping the final g in present participles: Maia herself talks in an amorphous country-girl patois: plants and birds sometimes have their proper names and sometimes phony names: there are rude parts of the body called tairth and zard; the expletive commonly deleted in modern English is inscrutably substituted by `basting'; and I wonder whether Adams knew that there actually is sucha word as `prion'. By at least page 500 I had got well and truly tired of the tedious half-hearted charade, all the way from Airtha to zard.<br /><br />The book is definitely over-long for me, but others may have more staying-power, and I finished it for all that. Nevertheless Adams is not just some pulp author - there are real flashes of what he can do at his best even here. The characterisation of Queen Fornis is vivid and memorable for one. For another, any reader of Shardik will surely recall the evocative and tantalising reference to the sinister Streels. I had seen somewhere that they feature in Maia too, and from page 750 if not earlier it was only the hope of coming to that bit that was keeping me going. I got there by about page 1010 or so, but it was a terrific episode, and not just as a relief from its context. Another of Adams's endearing little foibles is showing off his Greek untranslated. There are a couple of lines of tragedy at the start of The Girl in a Swing, and there are two passages here, one translated and one not. It doesn't seem to me that I'm spoiling anything by revealing that the untranslated excerpt means<br /><br />`To be healthy is the best thing for mortal man,<br /><br />And second to be comely in form.<br /><br />Third is just simply to be wealthy,<br /><br />And fourth to come of age with one's dear ones'.<br /><br />I suppose I enjoyed the book a little despite myself, but after all the display of languages I think it can be fairly characterised, with due regard for decorum, by the two members of the call-sign alphabet that I have taken for my caption.'. By at least page 500 I had got well and truly tired of the tedious half-hearted charade, all the way from Airtha to zard. <br /> <br />The book is definitely over-long for me, but others may have more staying-power, and I finished it for all that. Nevertheless Adams is not just some pulp author - there are real flashes of what he can do at his best even here. The characterisation of Queen Fornis is vivid and memorable for one. For another, any reader of Shardik will surely recall the evocative and tantalising reference to the sinister Streels. I had seen somewhere that they feature in Maia too, and from page 750 if not earlier it was only the hope of coming to that bit that was keeping me going. I got there by about page 1010 or so, but it was a terrific episode, and not just as a relief from its context. Another of Adams's endearing little foibles is showing off his Greek untranslated. There are a couple of lines of tragedy at the start of The Girl in a Swing, and there are two passages here, one translated and one not. It doesn't seem to me that I'm spoiling anything by revealing that the untranslated excerpt means <br /> <br />`To be healthy is the best thing for mortal man, <br />And second to be comely in form. <br />Third is just simply to be wealthy, <br />And fourth to come of age with one's dear ones'.  <br /> <br />I suppose I enjoyed the book a little despite myself, but after all the display of languages I think it can be fairly characterised, with due regard for decorum, by the two members of the call-sign alphabet that I have taken for my caption.	2005-08-22
US	46899882	R2T74HZV9AT06N	0552771848	858699391	Popcorn	Books	5	10	13	N	N	SOMEONE TO TAKE THE BLAME	This novel was first published in 1996. Whether there has been any updating of the text beyond one reference to the 21st century in this new paperback edition I simply have no idea.<br /><br />Ben Elton is a caricaturist and satirist. He was scriptwriter for the Blackadder series, he used to do a standup comic routine on television that I thought brilliant, and he has several other novels to his name that will give you some idea of what to expect from this one. As with all the best satirists, the humour comes from his sharp eye for the way people behave and think and from his willingness to be near the bone and explicit about issues that are normally thought to require some delicacy. This particular book is hung around the theme of extreme violence, and I'm quite sure that Quentin Tarantino was its inspiration, but any resemblance between the film-director hero and Tarantino himself is really neither here nor there, and the book is not really concerned either with resolving the question whether violence on the media does or doesn't cause violence in real life - we are no nearer an answer to that on the last page than we are on the first. What it is about is the mentality that refuses to accept personal responsibility in the traditional sense.<br /><br />The setting is America and the satire is a particularly English kind of satire, but Popcorn is not about comparing cultures. There are references to certain notorious American trials where the author is left rubbing his eyes with disbelief at the outcome, but I dare say he would have thought the same about the trial of Jeremy Thorpe back at home as he does about the O J Simpson and Lorana Bobbitt cases. Ben Elton's politics are a matter of public record, and they are leftish in much the way my own are. It is not a left-wing stance that finds much time or sympathy for any view that can shuffle off plain guilt on to an individual's background or circumstances, relevant though those may be by way of understanding some aspects of the matter. Elton also throws up his hands in seeming despair at what he sees as a triumph for sheer illogicality and irrelevance in the way issues of criminal guilt are in practice decided on a basis of ethnicity or gender-politics. And whatever influence the media may or may not have in creating or contributing to a culture of violence, he seems in no doubt that the forces of law have to, or at least choose to, trim their sails to the way the media will present issues and the way the public will be swayed by such presentation.<br /><br />Popcorn is, as I say, satire and caricature, not straight reportage or academic analysis. It focuses its spotlight on absurdity, unreasonableness, perversity and a sheer childish immaturity in people's attitudes. The two psychotic villains of the piece are partly depicted as human beings, but partly also as talking heads - mouthpieces for stating an argument. Nobody at all in the book comes out of it particularly well, and Ben Elton takes some sideswipes, in his usual way, at various incidental targets like goody-goody attitudes and the more brainless kinds of patriotism, while not sparing liberal maundering of the `we are all partly guilty' variety. The money culture comes under heavy fire as you might expect too, and some of the most painful insights relate to that, although the epilogue, with everyone suing everyone else, is extremely funny in a sad sort of way. As for the ostensible theme of the real or supposed effect of media violence on the way people behave, he settles for a simple summation of that in the mouth of the female murderer - it can hardly help.<br /><br />I have no problem with giving this novel five stars. The author is outstandingly bright and lively-minded, with real independence and originality. Where he stands in some great stately tradition of satirists and social critics - Juvenal, Voltaire, Swift and similar turgid giants - I neither know nor care. I'm pleased to see the tradition of English satire still flourishing, and I stay hopeful that the final Armageddon, which is really a battle between sense on the one hand and cant, doctrine, piety and herd-mentalities on the other, may not actually be lost.I stay hopeful that the final Armageddon, which is really a battle between sense on the one hand and cant, doctrine, piety and herd-mentalities on the other, may not actually be lost.	2005-08-14
US	46899882	RWAT22QR0GTNQ	B0006D91II	489839928	Fowler's End	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A GAME OF TWO HALVES	This novel is now available in a new edition with a foreword by no less than Michael Moorcock, who finds it a work of outstanding humour, a view that enjoys the eminent endorsement of Anthony Burgess. I can see what they mean, but it's not my own kind of humour. I thought I was never going to laugh until near the end, when I managed a wan smile at the description of the waiters in the restaurant, and then, to my own surprise, a genuine laugh during the fight in the pub that takes place on the last few pages.<br /><br />The book was first published in 1958, and I infer from the references to unrest in Cyprus that the setting must have been around then. The locale has an imaginary name, but it's not some imaginary place, nor is it any `furthest corner of London' as the blurb has it. It is the area adjacent to King's Cross, within walking distance of Mayfair and Belgravia, still exceedingly seedy when I last saw it several years ago. I gladly concede that Fowlers End is a very skilful piece of work. It captures the run-down feel of the area and parodies its sleazy denizens very well indeed. The plot in general is well held together, with a couple of nice surprises to round it off. The characters are memorable and up to a point original, and the writing is polished and has a general feel of `quality'. What gets up my nose is the author's attitude, which is more than slightly patronising and superior.<br /><br />The book seems to me to improve sharply somewhere around the half-way point, which is precisely where the author stops trying to be so self-consciously funny. At the same point he begins to develop the persona of his narrator, something that the story was beginning to need rather badly as the other characters are all stereotypes and the action is more a string of episodes than a fully architected plot. Too much of the book, particularly the first half of it, consists of Kersh showing us how clever he is. On top of that, he doesn't always seem to me to know how much of a good thing is enough. Even the sharp and witty description of the stately but decrepit waiters goes on just a little too long. What I find downright objectionable is the portrayal of Sam Yudenow - Kersh captures the accent extremely well, and the typical speech-solecisms, but he overdoes it more than somewhat. It all has the feel of an educated man mocking an uneducated one for his lack of education, and Kersh keeps at it with tasteless and tedious persistence over the first couple of chapters. This is the worst instance, but there is a slightly unpleasant atmosphere of de haut en bas that runs through the novel as a whole. I'm not looking for `human sympathy' by any means - that would ruin Swift or Juvenal. What I feel is that if Kersh wants to pose as being as superior as this he needs to actually be a bit more superior in the first place. His narrator doesn't have the real personality or distinctiveness of, say, Kingsley Amis's Jim Dixon or Maurice Allington (to say nothing of, say, Horace Rumpole), and one real oddity is that his alleged facial ugliness is neither here nor there in the plot - nothing in particular is made of it. Kersh's cynicism is rather average too, and in general his phrases and apercus are not as good as he evidently thinks they are. My recollection kept reverting to how that sort of thing is better done elsewhere, and when I came to the bit about the Eccles-cakes it was simply painful to recall the sermon in The Way of All Flesh.<br /><br />It's a fluent and easy read, although I reached the end without regret. I didn't roll in any aisles but remained slumped with a feeling of slight distaste in my armchair. However the weight of more distinguished opinion is against me, and if you can find the first half of the book more tolerable than I did - particularly if you think it's funny - this may be a book you will enjoy. Have a good second half. If you were beginning to wonder why there is a glossary of rhyming slang at the start, it isneeded for one solitary song near the end and nowhere else at all in the entire 300-odd pages.t, it is needed for one solitary song near the end and nowhere else at all in the entire 300-odd pages.	2005-08-12
US	46899882	RN6QDNMJUN5W5	0905489101	934470109	The Story of the West Highland	Books	4	1	1	N	N	FOR TOURISTS AND ENTHUSIASTS WITH ANORAKS	The West Highland railway must be one of the most beautiful railway journeys in the entire world, once you get clear of Dumbarton. The journey starts at Glasgow (Queen Street High Level) and after Dumbarton runs along the north bank of the upper Clyde estuary, skirts the unlovely town of Helensburgh and enters the highlands via the eastern bank of the Gareloch, where the glimpse of facilities for nuclear submarines is mercifully brief. From there it skirts the upper western shore of Loch Lomond and crosses the wilderness of Rannoch moor and surrounding areas mainly devoid of roads, reaching Fort William after about 100 miles and three and a half hours. You could do it in 2 hours by car if you want to miss the finest scenery.<br /><br />There is a further extension, which I've never visited but which is obviously spectacular, from Fort William to the small Atlantic port of Mallaig, and on this section there is the opportunity to travel by steam train (early booking recommended). There was once something else - a 24-mile branch line from Spean Bridge near Fort William up the Great Glen to the village of Fort Augustus at the south-western tip of Loch Ness. Exploration of this route is now for the fit and the determined, but quite apart from its fascination for railway antiquarians the area is of breathtaking beauty. The Great Glen is a geological fault taking an unnaturally straight line from Inverness in the north-east to the Atlantic. Its length is measured by the three `Fort' towns of Fort George near Inverness, Fort Augustus and Fort William, established by `Butcher Cumberland' himself - William Augustus Duke of Cumberland, third son of George the Second and famed mainly for his massacre of the Jacobite rebels at Culloden outside Inverness in 1746. The story of the ill-fated Fort Augustus branch railway is hardly less melancholy to some of us, and would-be explorers are advised that the best relics of it are actually at Fort Augustus itself, where the extension of the line from the town station to the harbour, a distance easily walkable in less than 10 minutes, was one of the ultimate follies of the British railway mania, seeing commercial service for all of 3 years.<br /><br />This little book was originally published by the London and North-Eastern Railway in the 1940's. The only updating consists of a supplementary chapter on the wartime history of the line including, very properly, that of the Fort Augustus branch. There is a map and there are chapters on the locomotives used on the line up to the time of writing and on the services provided. These now consist of 3 trains per day between Glasgow and Fort William, and of course from there to Mallaig there is also the option (presumably expensive) of travel by steam traction. The book is printed on glossy paper of high quality, which makes it all the more disappointing that the photographs are quite so dismal. In fact there is a central section of colour photos to a good standard, but the black-and-white efforts incorporated into the pages of text are really substandard, a matter of particular dismay in respect of the Fort Augustus line, which is astonishingly little documented when one considers how copious the material is on other lost branch-lines of less intrinsic interest in less beautiful settings.<br /><br />Disappointments notwithstanding, this is a book I still feel I have to recommend to anyone interested in this kind of thing. In its day it was `official', to this day it is fascinating, and I hope the day never comes when the area loses either its beauty or its remoteness or its railway.e from the town station to the harbour, a distance easily walkable in less than 10 minutes, was one of the ultimate follies of the British railway mania, seeing commercial service for all of 3 years.     This little book was originally published by the London and North-Eastern Railway in the 1940's. The only updating consists of a supplementary chapter on the wartime history of the line including, very properly, that of the Fort Augustus branch. There is a map and there are chapters on the locomotives used on the line up to the time of writing and on the services provided. These now consist of 3 trains per day between Glasgow and Fort William, and of course from there to Mallaig there is also the option (presumably expensive) of travel by steam traction. The book is printed on glossy paper of high quality, which makes it all the more disappointing that the photographs are quite so dismal. In fact there is a central section of colour photos to a good standard, but the black-and-white efforts incorporated into the pages of text are really substandard, a matter of particular dismay in respect of the Fort Augustus line, which is astonishingly little documented when one considers how copious the material is on other lost branch-lines of less intrinsic interest in less beautiful settings.     Disappointments notwithstanding, this is a book I still feel I have to recommend to anyone interested in this kind of thing. In its day it was `official', to this day it is fascinating, and I hope the day never comes when the area loses either its beauty or its remoteness or its railway.	2005-07-29
US	46899882	R13S7R04OUREJA	0007175418	235590590	Gordon Brown	Books	4	4	4	N	N	BROWN STUDY	It is nothing unusual for a modern British prime minister to be surrounded by jealous and manipulative rivals who are after his (or in the most striking instance her) job. The post is not, strictly speaking, a directly elected one like president of the United States or president of France. Following a general election, or occasionally the departure of the incumbent from office, the monarch summons the leader of the party with a majority in the Commons, or failing that the leader of another party that looks possibly able to form a government, and asks him or her to do so. Established practice in the matter is clear and always adhered to, but in the last resort it is a matter of convention not of statute.<br /><br />So the trick is to become leader of the right party. Throughout the 20th century the dominant party was the Conservative party, which has a record of deposing its leaders worthy of imperial Rome. Since 1997 there now seems to be at least a serious possibility that it has lost its hegemony, and Labour has not had enough time in office through the mere 100 years of its existence for generalisations in this respect to be made with any confidence. The old Labour party was factious and fractious but never in the end did the deed. With Blair's electorally-dominant 'New' Labour I think we are waiting to see what happens this time. Blair effectively stole a march on Gordon Brown for the leadership, but there was apparently some sort of deal, or understanding at least, between them that he would, or might, or could possibly, hand over the premiership to Brown. What this deal amounted to depends on who you listen to. What is perfectly clear is that the current governance of Britain is characterised by intense partisan infighting between the two and their respective votaries. I'm quite sure it all loses nothing in the telling by the all-pervasive political commentators, but I'm just as sure that they are not inventing it. At a recent meeting of the parliamentary Labour party the mildest and most docile members lost patience and told the pair of them with scant respect or civility to stop the whole nonsense.<br /><br />For this the upstarts deserve our thanks in more ways than one. In particular even those who routinely follow politics with some interest are suffering a severe overload of obsessional garrulity from the pundits, and I would personally attribute declining popular interest in political issues not least to that. This particular book is still warm off the presses and you can obtain it at remaindered prices already.  I gather there are others on the same topic, and some are allegedly 'better', but for anyone whose tolerance stretches to one only this one will do not badly at the right price. The book sketches in Brown's background and makes a half-hearted attempt at explaining some facets of his personality on this basis. I imagine any reader's guess in that respect is as good as the author's. Here is a man with a compulsion to dominate but severely lacking in self-confidence, a man who wants the most public office in the land but who is secretive in a most peculiar way - attempts at finding anything embarrassing in sexual respects have come up with nothing and I would guess that the secretiveness is more a matter of hiding possible failures than anything of that sort. Where the book reads convincingly is in presenting a coherent picture of its subject. Whether the coherency has been purchased at some cost in over-simplification I couldn't say, but I should think almost certainly. The style is literate and easy to read despite some signs of haste, and the writer is clearly well informed. I would not expect him to give clues as to his sources in many cases, but he could have raised this book to another level entirely if he had marshalled his arguments more systematically. The book is replete with accounts of meetings that Mr Bower was not present at, and it regularly attributes thoughts, reactions and motivations to Brown that even his inmost coterie would have had to conjecture. What I would have liked Mr Bower to do would have been to show the basis and development of his own reasoning, how he weighs up this or that statement or piece of behaviour, and what differing degrees of confidence he has in coming to various conclusions. Presenting it all as fact detracts from the interest of the book as an analysis. Also the general picture begins to seem odd after a while. Throughout the book Blair is depicted almost entirely as giving way to Brown, and I would need some convincing of that. Another aspect that is partly welcome and partly unsatisfactory is the detail given of Brown's economic management. If there were quite as many gross errors as there seem to have been then he has been extremely lucky - by comparative standards, which are all we've got, this government has contrived to seem more competent than most in that respect.<br /><br />The picture I ended with is of a man I wouldn't want as prime minister in his current frame of mind, seething with frustrations, harbouring obsessive grudges and full of unresolved contradictions. Whether achieving his final goal would exorcise some of these phantoms I can't tell. My guess before the recent general election would have been that Blair had decided to block him if he could, as 50 years ago Attlee made sure he blocked Morrison. My guess now is that Blair no longer can.o Brown that even his inmost coterie would have had to conjecture. What I would have liked Mr Bower to do would have been to show the basis and development of his own reasoning, how he weighs up this or that statement or piece of behaviour, and what differing degrees of confidence he has in coming to various conclusions. Presenting it all as fact detracts from the interest of the book as an analysis. Also the general picture begins to seem odd after a while. Throughout the book Blair is depicted almost entirely as giving way to Brown, and I would need some convincing of that. Another aspect that is partly welcome and partly unsatisfactory is the detail given of Brown's economic management. If there were quite as many gross errors as there seem to have been then he has been extremely lucky - by comparative standards, which are all we've got, this government has contrived to seem more competent than most in that respect.  <br /> <br />The picture I ended with is of a man I wouldn't want as prime minister in his current frame of mind, seething with frustrations, harbouring obsessive grudges and full of unresolved contradictions. Whether achieving his final goal would exorcise some of these phantoms I can't tell. My guess before the recent general election would have been that Blair had decided to block him if he could, as 50 years ago Attlee made sure he blocked Morrison. My guess now is that Blair no longer can.	2005-07-28
US	46899882	R2UA85PDKSVN20	0755104269	691093854	The War of the Worlds	Books	5	2	3	N	N	NOT JUST A LOAD OF TRIPODS	I think it was Brian Aldiss who said that Wells has practically every gift that a novelist can have. That is not something that becomes obsolete, whereas the state of scientific knowledge inevitably does. Just one short century ago, the atom was unsplittable (which is what 'atom' means), time was the universal constant that Newton thought it was, and the popular notion of raw power in action was represented by steam engines. If there really were, across the gulfs of space, `minds that are to our minds as ours are to those of the beasts that perish', it would have taken a very brave as well as a very gifted novelist to envisage their technology. It's hardly surprising that Wells doesn't foresee that there was a science that utterly transcends chemistry and mechanics and comes to the very heart of creation with nuclear physics. What surprises me rather more is not that these advanced intelligences have either never invented a wheel or never seen a use for one, but that they seem to have fallen for something like the three-card trick in failing to identify the bacteria and viruses that would spell near-instant doom for their first expedition to the inner planets on which they hoped to set up a new home.<br /><br />Give or take such details, what The War of the Worlds is about is domination - domination of one species by another, of one race by another and of one class by another. I think it's possible to overstate the socialistic element in Wells's thinking. Wells is either pessimistic, or, if not precisely pessimistic, at least deeply apprehensive. In creating scenarios of a class-struggle Wells does not seem to me to resemble Marx in any important respect. Marx is not pessimistic for the very good and sufficient reason that he sees a solution, or what he takes for a solution, to the whole issue. Wells feels no such certainty or confidence, and he foresees possibilities that are not pretty in the least, from any political perspective, as his readers will recall from the Eloi and Morlocks in The Time Machine. That work at least was restricted within the confines of this one planet. In The War of the Worlds Wells lets his imagination go further afield. As I read the book, there is one real oddity in the plot. The Martians presumably intend to conquer the whole earth, but their first expeditionary force, consisting of only 10 vessels of which Wells accounts for 7, is restricted to a small corner of south-east England. The British empire at that time was of course extremely influential and important, but not in the kind of way that would have made the invaders' task easier just by setting up bases in Woking, Chobham and Shepperton. There might be some kind of symbolism in this, but my own suspicion is that Wells was playing to his audience, whose perceptions were in general as provincial as those of Mrs Elphinstone in the book, to whom the Martians were hardly if at all more alien or terrifying than the French.<br /><br />In general it's very easy, and probably rather pointless, to pick holes in the author's concept of his Martians. Their invasion was over almost before it had begun, and humanity had no opportunity, or were allowed no opportunity, to make contact with them. If the Martians were one-half as intelligent as the author lets on then they can hardly have perceived humanity as anything like the `infusoria' viewed under a microscope that he talks about on that wonderful first page of the book. Wells himself says that there was no need to assume that the Martians were pitiless. They had come because they had to go somewhere as their own planet was dying under their feet or whatever they used for feet. Humanity itself is not notably considerate of other species when it wishes to expand its operations for far less urgent reasons, and Wells is something of an early environmentalist in making this point. Where he is much more on his own home ground (in every sense) is in his speculations as to how the race accustomed to being dominant might be liable to behave when itself under subjection. He puts the thoughts on this topic into the mouth of the artilleryman rather than expressing them himself, and I take this to indicate not (as has often been argued) that these were his own convictions but precisely that they were scenarios viewed in a murky crystal ball, uncertain and hazy but all the more deeply unpleasant for that.<br /><br />At another level The War of the Worlds can be read simply as a story, and what a storyteller Wells is! The picture of the pre-motor London home counties is as fresh and vivid as surely it can have ever been from the day it was first published. The sense of awe and strangeness about the alien interlopers is hardly equalled in the more recent fiction, far more aware and savvy technically than is that of Wells himself, which has poured out since his time. There is real, palpable, drama here, and a sense of pity as well as irony in the final fate of the Martian expedition, laid low by creatures as literally beneath their notice as that wonderful but hyperbolic first page asks us to believe that we may have seemed to the Martian civilisation in a more figurative sense. In its own way, one of the greatest novels there can ever have been.ng dominant might be liable to behave when itself under subjection. He puts the thoughts on this topic into the mouth of the artilleryman rather than expressing them himself, and I take this to indicate not (as has often been argued) that these were his own convictions but precisely that they were scenarios viewed in a murky crystal ball, uncertain and hazy but all the more deeply unpleasant for that. <br /> <br />At another level The War of the Worlds can be read simply as a story, and what a storyteller Wells is! The picture of the pre-motor London home counties is as fresh and vivid as surely it can have ever been from the day it was first published. The sense of awe and strangeness about the alien interlopers is hardly equalled in the more recent fiction, far more aware and savvy technically than is that of Wells himself, which has poured out since his time. There is real, palpable, drama here, and a sense of pity as well as irony in the final fate of the Martian expedition, laid low by creatures as literally beneath their notice as that wonderful but hyperbolic first page asks us to believe that we may have seemed to the Martian civilisation in a more figurative sense. In its own way, one of the greatest novels there can ever have been.	2005-07-25
US	46899882	R2QX7F6KP8LVSO	0552146986	891667833	Inconceivable	Books	5	1	1	N	N	HYSTEROSALPINGOGRAMS AND ALL THAT	Ben Elton's style has been got under a bit of control since the heady early days of Stark. He still takes the occasional potshot at incidental targets, but he no longer fires a scattergun in every direction as he did then. As often, he picks a topic that might seem to call for the utmost delicacy and tact and treats it with the utmost frankness and even ribaldry. The topic in question is human infertility, although there is a very entertainingly-handled sub-plot of life within the BBC in addition. His style of comedy has always been to highlight the grotesque side of things, and so it remains here. This doesn't show any lack of human sympathy on his part - indeed very much the reverse I should say - but he is not for the shy or the oversensitive much less for the solemn or the pompous.<br /><br />The processes of human sexuality verge on the absurd at the best of times whatever else can be said about them. When we factor in the exceptional manoeuvres increasingly demanded by a desperate mid-30's childless wife from her less committed husband, culminating in the lurid rituals of IVF, I think it's fair to say that it takes a certain type of writer to deal with such a theme successfully. Ben Elton handles it brilliantly. We are not spared the most graphic or intimate physical and anatomical details, but the comic style Elton adopts really masks a true delicacy of perception. Indeed I'm inclined to say that nobody with less of a sense of humour than the two protagonists show in this book would have been able to see the whole gruesome process through. The humour is very English humour, and I think I know what it's modelled on to a great extent. During the years of the Thatcher Terror, there used to be a hilarious column in the magazine Private Eye purporting to consist of letters from her husband to a friend named Bill. These were written in a very public-school idiom, probably derived basically from P G Wodehouse but influenced by minor literature such as the Molesworth books, familiar also from Oxford common-rooms and similar places of association, and updated more recently into the dialogue of the chattering classes in Islington and similar parts of London, the form in which we find it here. This idiom can take the heaviness out of the most serious situations without trivialising them, and whether or not I'm right about its precise origin in this book that is the way its author tries to use it, and tries very successfully in my own opinion.<br /><br />The author never speaks to us directly throughout the whole book, using instead the device of diaries written by the husband and wife, much as is done in Julian Barnes's Talking it Over. The device works very well here. Ben Elton is an observer and critic with a particularly acute eye for human behaviour and attitudes, and it helps if he steps back a little from the narrative for that very reason. The incidents in the story are often Rabelaisian and hilarious, but the dilemmas and worse that the characters face are touched in with no little sympathy as well as perceptiveness. The style of writing has even gained a little (dare I say this?) refinement, to its and our general benefit I'd say. The ending is genuinely touching, so on balance 5 stars.th books, familiar also from Oxford common-rooms and similar places of association, and updated more recently into the dialogue of the chattering classes in Islington and similar parts of London, the form in which we find it here. This idiom can take the heaviness out of the most serious situations without trivialising them, and whether or not I'm right about its precise origin in this book that is the way its author tries to use it, and tries very successfully in my own opinion. <br /> <br />The author never speaks to us directly throughout the whole book, using instead the device of diaries written by the husband and wife, much as is done in Julian Barnes's Talking it Over. The device works very well here. Ben Elton is an observer and critic with a particularly acute eye for human behaviour and attitudes, and it helps if he steps back a little from the narrative for that very reason. The incidents in the story are often Rabelaisian and hilarious, but the dilemmas and worse that the characters face are touched in with no little sympathy as well as perceptiveness. The style of writing has even gained a little (dare I say this?) refinement, to its and our general benefit I'd say. The ending is genuinely touching, so on balance 5 stars.	2005-07-20
US	46899882	R2U9HDT9TR6QC5	1565548434	856330996	Scottish Ghosts	Books	3	2	2	N	N	GLAISTIGS, GHOULIES AND BOGLES GENERALLY	This is a tourists' guide to haunted places in Scotland, not a book of ghost stories as we would normally understand the expression. It tells us, sometimes in rough summary sometimes in a certain amount of detail, what the nature of the apparition is in each case, but it has no pretension or ambition to be literary. There is a brief introduction saying nothing much, and the stories are grouped, reasonably up to a point, into categories. The categories in practice don't seem terribly well thought-out to me. To some extent they are geographical, for instance there is a section on Edinburgh but Edinburgh ghosts reappear in later chapters dedicated to pubs, to theatres and to private residences. Some categories relate to the type of apparition, some to the type of location, the types of apparition are not very clearly or consistently differentiated, and the sole chapter where I have personal knowledge of one of the issues is the most unsatisfactory of all.<br /><br />I have no experience whatsoever of the preternatural, but I have good knowledge of one instance of a poltergeist. This poltergeist incident is categorically true, and you will find it related here on pages 37/38 as The Poltergeist of Sauchie. As usual with the more reliably recorded cases of poltergeist manifestations, there was inexplicable movement, apparently telekinetic, of inanimate objects, and these abnormal phenomena centred on an adolescent. I do not believe so much as 0.002% of the reports I read of `ghosts', but poltergeist occurrences quite simply do take place. What I refuse to accept is any classification of them as preternatural. There are more things just on earth than are accounted for in our philosophy to date, and this is one of them. It doesn't seem to me to belong in the same chapter as the story of Andrew Mackie's House, the longest narrative in the entire book. This tale is a ghost-story and a half, and the linking motif, namely the unnatural movement of the inanimate objects, is almost the least of it.<br /><br />Viewing the book as a catalogue, I am simply in no position to assess it for either completeness or accuracy, but surely there must be enough and more than enough sites listed to satisfy the most dedicated and determined amateur searcher after Caledonian paranormalia. The editor very sensibly refuses to deny categorically every report, because I believe neither she nor I are in any position to do so. Some of it is legend, losing nothing through time and commerce no doubt, and some of it is pretty obvious romancing. For what it is, the book is quite good value and very properly it has a short chapter on the distinctively Scottish phenomenon of `second sight'. Another couple of items relating to ghost-trains were of particular interest to myself  -- I would have been amazed if there had not been such reports at the site of the original Tay Bridge so famously destroyed in 1879, but the phantom conveyance at Dunphail was one I hadn't previously heard of, and any property developers in the area had better be careful about building over the old track-bed.<br /><br />It would not be for me to `recommend' such a publication, but I am very pleased to have bought it. If you wish to use it as a cut-price Baedeker in a specialised field, I shall be there vicariously with you in spirit (no pun intended).most the least of it.  <br /> <br />Viewing the book as a catalogue, I am simply in no position to assess it for either completeness or accuracy, but surely there must be enough and more than enough sites listed to satisfy the most dedicated and determined amateur searcher after Caledonian paranormalia. The editor very sensibly refuses to deny categorically every report, because I believe neither she nor I are in any position to do so. Some of it is legend, losing nothing through time and commerce no doubt, and some of it is pretty obvious romancing. For what it is, the book is quite good value and very properly it has a short chapter on the distinctively Scottish phenomenon of `second sight'. Another couple of items relating to ghost-trains were of particular interest to myself  -- I would have been amazed if there had not been such reports at the site of the original Tay Bridge so famously destroyed in 1879, but the phantom conveyance at Dunphail was one I hadn't previously heard of, and any property developers in the area had better be careful about building over the old track-bed.  <br /> <br />It would not be for me to `recommend' such a publication, but I am very pleased to have bought it. If you wish to use it as a cut-price Baedeker in a specialised field, I shall be there vicariously with you in spirit (no pun intended).	2005-07-11
US	46899882	R1OQ2A2IZBEOTX	0862873762	49572665	Mingled Chime: Leaves from an Autobiography	Books	5	8	8	N	N	UNMINGLED ENJOYMENT	This is the first volume of the great maestro's account of his own career. I say advisedly `career' and not `life'. He was born in 1879 and this volume, first published in 1944, takes us as far as 1923. He underwent his first marriage in 1903, there being two sons from this union, but you would never know any of that for anything he tells us about it here. What this book is about is his life as a musician, with a 3-year hiatus forced on that through the financial problems consequent on his father's untimely death together with the exceptional circumstances of world war 1. We hear about any number of musicians and persons ancillary to musicians, some of them quite minor. Of his first wife and of his children - nothing.<br /><br />This suits me very well. The Beecham I want to read is the musician of exceptional gifts and attainment who was also a wit to rival Oscar Wilde. His early life is sketched in with a reasonable amount of detail. He discusses the value of public-school education in general and is even fairly forthcoming about his own experience of it. Oxford, where he never wanted to go in the first place, gets only the most cursory mention. The one personality outside of the purely musical sphere who is depicted in any detail is his father, the pharmaceuticals magnate Sir Joseph Beecham, with whom his relationship suffered some undisclosed estrangement at one stage but ended on a happier level, and to whom his musical career owed more than to anyone else apart from his own efforts. Those efforts were Herculean, and his account of them is fascinating and of course often very entertaining. Great orchestras as we now know them were largely the product of Beecham's generation, and great maestros as we now know those didn't spring into existence fully equipped like the goddess Athena. They had to put in an unholy amount of work to establish themselves.<br /><br />One impression I gain very strongly from this book was that Beecham's prodigious musicianship was a thing of the instincts much more than of the intellect. His memory was phenomenal of course, and his culture was wide, but he followed his tastes rather than more analytical processes. These tastes famously included what we usually think of as pretty minor stuff as well as the towering peaks, and I was fascinated to find out just what it was that attracted him to his eclectic enthusiasms. He followed no school of thought, and his special insights were entirely personal. This book does not contain some of his very off-message opinions about Beethoven which seem to me to possess a devastating clarity and independence, but his view of Tristan as a dream-fantasy is an extremely interesting one too, and I'm not sure how I feel about it. His remarks about Brahms and Elgar might be thought downright superficial if they were anyone else's, and it would be the easy course to attribute them simply to the newness of their music when Beecham first encountered it, but it definitely seems to be the case that his views once formed didn't change much subsequently. Naturally we hear a lot from him about Handel, about Mozart and of course a great deal indeed about Delius, and I felt a sense of privilege at being allowed to share the special perceptions of a musician of such stature expressed with such brilliant clarity.<br /><br />His style of writing is simply exquisite. It is more than slightly lofty, of course, but he is neither self-important nor (perhaps surprisingly) snobbish - he knew talent when he saw it and did not confuse it with status. He has a little to say about politics and the world scene, but here too he is surprisingly undoctrinaire. Naturally there are some caustic denunciations, but the ironic sideswipes are more characteristic, including his delicious comment on the meetings held with a view to establishing an orchestra in Birmingham - `all the trite sentiments ever uttered upon such a subject anywhere since life began were rolled out by one speaker after another'.<br /><br />It's all a marvellous read, quite apart from the significance and interest of the subject-matter. How I have managed to be aware of it for so long without getting round to reading it I would have difficulty in explaining, but I intend to repair the deficiency a great deal more promptly with the remaining volumes.nother'. <br /> <br />It's all a marvellous read, quite apart from the significance and interest of the subject-matter. How I have managed to be aware of it for so long without getting round to reading it I would have difficulty in explaining, but I intend to repair the deficiency a great deal more promptly with the remaining volumes.	2005-07-10
US	46899882	R339J8DEGFQQ0N	0140041540	180978553	The Loch Ness Story	Books	5	6	6	N	N	SHY MONSTER	Q: What's the difference between the Loch Ness monster and weapons of mass destruction in Iraq?<br /><br />A: They're still looking for the Loch Ness monster.<br /><br />The whole saga dates basically from 1933, when the most famous photograph, apparently showing the head and neck of the alleged beast, was taken by one Colonel Wilson. Sightings, dim photographs and echo-soundings have continued ever since, but the story still has the status of myth rather than anything else in both the popular and the scientific view. Loch Ness is the largest and deepest of a chain of ribbon lochs, connected by the Caledonian Canal, stretching along the geological fault-line between Inverness and the Atlantic across the width of the Scottish highlands. At its deepest it may be a full 1000 feet, and its lower regions are almost impenetrably murky owing to saturation of the water with particles of peat. Nicholas Witchell is a BBC journalist who has taken an interest in the issue from his teens, and his book is an admirably thorough, balanced and honest account of the history of the investigations from 1933 to at least 1989, the date of my edition.<br /><br />Is there or isn't there some colony of strange creatures down there? It really comes down to who and what we are prepared to believe. If they exist, the creatures are shy of human beings. They appear to be frightened off by noise, for instance, and of course the area has great attractions for tourists as well as investigators. However if they do exist, it seems certain that they have to come up for air at times. Reports indicate beasts of up to 30' in length, which I gather is over the maximum theoretical size for anything that can breathe with gills. Witchell assembles the evidence with great thoroughness. Hoaxes there have been, and in particular one exceptionally determined investigation in 1975 seems to have made an honest but serious mistake that did nothing to assuage scepticism. Sightings are reported by people that one would not normally think of as over-impressionable or over-bibulous, such as a local headmistress and a Benedictine monk from the abbey at Fort Augustus at the western end of the loch. Even if we discount the majority of reports as intrinsically untrustworthy, to reject them all involves the belief that a very large number of independent reports by pillars of the community are either deluded or mendacious.<br /><br />Witchell discusses, as of course he must, the attitudes among the scientific community, and he makes an important and valid point. This is that scientists are terrified of unorthodoxy, fearful for their reputations and of their colleagues who will crucify them unmercifully if they associate themselves with any point of view lacking the imprimatur of the scientific thought-police. How well founded this anxiety is can be seen from the way an established and reputable zoologist, Denys W Tucker, was treated for so much as declaring an open mind on the issue. What is also quite indisputably true is that scientific sceptics, who will demand the highest rigour when operating on established matters, can be almost incredibly slovenly and amateurish when they think they can safely refute an unorthodox hypothesis from what they perceive to be safe high ground. There is no possibility, for instance, that any sightings can be written off to islands of floating vegetation, as Loch Ness has no aquatic vegetation. Equally, Scottish highlanders know a seal when they see one, and will have seen many more of them than most scientists in London. It also seems to be acceptable in this case to dismiss evidence unread.<br /><br />The jury is still out so far as I'm concerned. One week from writing this notice I shall actually have been to Loch Ness for the first time in my life, and I shall be traversing its entire length, half by road and half by boat, in broad daylight. I shall have my camera and my binoculars with me, in the belief that it is not impossible that I may see something important, just as it's not impossible that I can win the national lottery. When I'm inclined to think the story improbable, I reflect that some of its refutations, from sources that one would expect better of, are something far worse - they are impossible.I may see something important, just as it's not impossible that I can win the national lottery. When I'm inclined to think the story improbable, I reflect that some of its refutations, from sources that one would expect better of, are something far worse - they are impossible.	2005-06-22
US	46899882	R3B0OGCLIGIJSO	0751501999	887389902	Stark	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SATIRE SLAPSTICK AND DOOMSDAY	Ben Elton is probably best known as scriptwriter for the Blackadder series, and that will give you a fair idea of both his talent and his way of thinking. To get the most out of Stark it probably helps to have followed the stand-up comic series he used to do on the BBC. That was brilliant and no two ways about it, provided you didn't find some of the topics embarrassing, which, in the absence of any maiden aunts, I didn't. No topic was off-limits. There was a great deal about certain parts of the body, but we were long used to that from Billy Connolly. Where Ben Elton went further was in dealing with political and racial, and particularly with environmental, issues. He used to deliver his monologues at machine-gun speed, and I was impressed not only by the sheer physical stamina he must have needed but also by what was either a phenomenal memory or a genius for on-the-spot improvisation, or maybe both. He went in for gag-lines in a way Billy Connolly doesn't, but one talent they have in common is for seeing the ridiculous side of quite ordinary things. There was always a general theme each time, environmental as often as not, but a few dozen incidental targets also used to get shot at along the way.<br /><br />Read Stark with that in mind. I like the potshot he takes at champagne - the name trademarked so as to keep the price artificially high. However I remembered with pleasure the way we the public called the champagne producers' bluff at the millennium by boycotting the stuff so that we could find some high-quality surplus being sold off at bargain prices quite some time later. This thought brought me some comfort in reading Stark - perhaps we are not totally in the hands of the tycoons. Other details were entirely incidental and unrelated to the general message of the book, but he is the first person I have ever known to call attention to a strange deaths-head kind of face that has long repelled me in some famous American women anxious to preserve their looks beyond a certain age.<br /><br />The thread of the book is serious in more senses than one. It is about the threat to the environment, and just exactly how bad that is I don't think anyone is quite sure. Ben Elton goes completely over the top, and that was smart. I don't suppose that even he takes at face value his scenario of the asset-stripper co-opted into the exclusive club of monstrous tycoons - a tobacco-baron, an arms exporter, a fast-food king foisting his stringburgers and gristlefurters on a complaisant public and other usual suspects - whose purpose is literally to bring about environmental disaster in the full knowledge of what they are doing. By caricaturing the suspects in this way he avoids being overtly political, and by going to extremes in his disaster-scenario he keeps the story vivid and involving, but just a story (I hope) all the same. For good measure he throws in a couple of unrelated nuclear catastrophes and the wreck of a maritime cargo of toxic waste. Such is the power of the money involved that people manage to stay unaware of what is going on (governments hardly get a mention), and the only resistance comes from a picaresque assortment of well-meaning liberals, hippies, dropouts and aborigines. One of these is a devotee of Judge Dread comics, and I wonder whether Ben got some of his ideas from such sources himself.<br /><br />The story moves fast and the characters are interesting, although the book would hardly challenge Evelyn Waugh or Julian Barnes for Fine Writing. I found it helped to keep in mind my image of Ben Elton on stage, and I could hear his voice quite clearly - he writes much of it the way he talks. I find it hard to blame the politicians or even the tycoons in real life beyond a certain extent. If we are being suckered that is mainly our own fault, it seems to me, and we are, it seems to me, and it is, it seems to me. The planet's resources are not a bottomless pit, it will not take more than a certain amount of abuse justas our own bodies will not, we have not yet seen certain disasters as they could be (e.g. a nuclear meltdown, of which Chernobyl was a mere mooncast shadow), and of course mother nature herself could take a hand with, say, meteor-strikes, earthquakes, super-volcanoes etc. Probably nobody quite knows the extent of the chances we're taking, but it seems to me that we need to wake up and to grow up in the way we're behaving. We were given our brains to use, and we should remember the parable of the talents.e just as our own bodies will not, we have not yet seen certain disasters as they could be (e.g. a nuclear meltdown, of which Chernobyl was a mere mooncast shadow), and of course mother nature herself could take a hand with, say, meteor-strikes, earthquakes, super-volcanoes etc. Probably nobody quite knows the extent of the chances we're taking, but it seems to me that we need to wake up and to grow up in the way we're behaving. We were given our brains to use, and we should remember the parable of the talents.	2005-06-18
US	46899882	R2BFLG37L7WMX	0679736875	681832218	Talking It Over	Books	5	4	5	N	N	GOOSEBERRY	Not until I came to the end did I check the publication dates of this novel and John Mortimer's Dunster. Barnes has it. Talking It Over dates from 1991 and Dunster from 1992. Whether there was any communication between the authors regarding their stories, or whether the muse visited them independently, I have no idea at all. If the latter, the resemblance between the plot-lines is nothing less than startling. Safe and slightly dull financial professional has a showy and erratic best friend. Dull professional marries well, and wife deserts him for erratic and showy best friend, whom she then marries. The second marriage fails, partly through Aristotelian hamartia of best friend. The b/f gets his deserved comeuppance, this providing some cold and partial consolation to the wronged dull professional.<br /><br />Julian Barnes is talented in the extreme. Not only is the book as well written as those familiar with his other work would expect, the plot gives him the opportunity to parade some of his own prejudices regarding the proper use of English, these prejudices being of course voiced by the characters in the book and not directly by the author (as if we would be fooled). In fact it is the persons of the drama who talk from first page to last, never the author for himself, and it is not just the three protagonists but the minor supporting cast as well. This device is very cleverly and adroitly used, again as we would expect, but I myself am sometimes inclined to find Barnes just a little too smart for his own good or for my appreciation as a reader. The start of the book is completely brilliant, for example, with the two lonely-hearts falling for each other, and the talkative Oliver playing gooseberry. His own discomfiture at being in this position and the way he talks too much in compensation are ultra-perceptive observation by the author, and I have the strong impression that he knows that himself. How the story then develops until the ousted Stuart finally becomes the unwanted presence that brings Oliver's downfall about is clever, original and convincing, or clever and original at least.<br /><br />The whole book shows a sharp eye for character and situations, and an even sharper ear for how some kinds of people talk when they are forced to come to terms with their real thoughts and motivations. What I found very successful was the way Barnes keeps his distance from his characters and ensures that they are really talking for themselves rather than for himself. Every incident and every situation in this book challenges us to be judgmental, but if any judging is going to be done the author makes sure that we are left doing it. His style is also light, graceful and in the last degree skilful, and you will get through the book's 270 or so pages before you think.<br /><br />Very readable, very persuasive and I suppose very recommendable.  I gave Dunster 5 stars when I reviewed that, so I have no other option here.s the unwanted presence that brings Oliver's downfall about is clever, original and convincing, or clever and original at least.  <br /> <br />The whole book shows a sharp eye for character and situations, and an even sharper ear for how some kinds of people talk when they are forced to come to terms with their real thoughts and motivations. What I found very successful was the way Barnes keeps his distance from his characters and ensures that they are really talking for themselves rather than for himself. Every incident and every situation in this book challenges us to be judgmental, but if any judging is going to be done the author makes sure that we are left doing it. His style is also light, graceful and in the last degree skilful, and you will get through the book's 270 or so pages before you think.  <br /> <br />Very readable, very persuasive and I suppose very recommendable.  I gave Dunster 5 stars when I reviewed that, so I have no other option here.	2005-06-12
US	46899882	R2369MH0QX3443	0192803204	392933251	The Roman Revolution	Books	5	79	83	N	N	'THERE IS ALWAYS AN OLIGARCHY SOMEWHERE'	This great work of scholarly history was first published in June 1939. In his brief foreword Sir Ronald Syme speaks cryptically about its publication being a matter of some urgency. From that we have to infer that he saw it as having contemporary relevance. From a slow and careful reading I would add that we ought to be very careful and circumspect in how we draw parallels and apply lessons. I don't dispute for a moment that a thorough and precise examination of what was done over the turbulent transition from the later Roman republic to the principate gives deep insight into human motivations and political processes. However if one particular lesson comes over loud and clear to me it is how terminology can be distorted for political ends, deliberate or even unperceived. Those prone to assert that `reading history' will in some inevitable way support some cherished preconception of their own will, if intelligent and attentive, gain a salutary insight into what history really consists of, and with that a perception of the pitfalls of dealing in glib generalisations and citing as convenient parallels things that are no parallels at all.<br /><br />The first job of the historian is to clarify what really, or probably, happened and to interpret accurately or at least rationally what the sources for the period tell us. This is rarely a matter of simple fact in the sense that multiplication tables are simple fact. Syme's reasoning is bold and forthright, and while he has no claim to be taken as gospel he never seems to me perverse or unreasonable.  I personally doubt that Antony was the straightforward and honest type portrayed by Syme - Syme himself can't get away from the part Antony played in the proscriptions. On the other hand he has every reason to ridicule Octavian's propaganda concerning the nonexistent threat posed to Rome from Antony's Egyptian queen and Octavian's official party line that elevated the naval skirmish at Actium into some mighty turning-point of history.<br /><br />The story I read from Syme is as follows. The Roman republic was always part-sham. Its official mode of governance was by the senate and people, with the consuls as chief officers of government chosen at stated intervals by the people. Real power was exercised by shifting coalitions of nobles together with the unseen influence of the moneyed equestrian class. The values that weighed with both nobles and plebs were tradition and `authority', there being no written constitution. There was certainly some flexibility, but it was rare for the plebs to choose as consuls anyone lacking aristocratic status. There was no concept of progress whatsoever, and democracy on the Athenian model was despised. `Liberty' was largely theoretical, except in the sense that free speech was untrammelled to a degree we would never tolerate now. There was no pressure from any class for reform let alone revolution, but the knights and bankers were provoked at the peril of any who did so (as Catiline found to his cost), and the plebs were prone to periodic revolt, offering a power base successively to Marius and to Caesar. Blatant inversion of the meaning of the laws was the stock-in-trade of anyone with a mission, invoking some higher interpretation as suited. Indeed what Cicero tried to do in opposition to Antony was much what he boasted of having repressed as consul in relation to Catiline. Gradually a single figure came to be dominant in the power-struggles. Sulla brutally put down the adherents of Marius in the name of restoring the right-and-proper dominance of his fellow aristocrats. However when Sulla thought his work done he simply resigned. Not so Pompey or Caesar. They sought personal dominance in a way Sulla had not done. Pompey was a brute, Caesar to some extent genuinely liberal (although I see no reason to believe that any Roman republican leader had any opinion except contempt for the plebs). However on attaining power Caesar went back basically to the statusquo ante, but took the unprecedented step of accepting dictatorship for life and appointing a successor, something not even Sulla had contemplated.<br /><br />From there on fate favoured Octavian. His luck was phenomenal, his ruthlessness total, his skill in balancing interests and oligarchies unprecedented, and his mendacity instinctive and brilliant. He was the butcher of Perusia and the co-tyrant of the proscriptions, and he never really changed.  He was by no means all-powerful, but he eviscerated the old aristocratic oligarchies and established his own. Unrest had suited him during his rise, stability after he reached the top. He had a genuine Roman respect for tradition, but he had a populist sense that the plebs would be kept on-side with a better water-supply. He knew a good idea when he saw it, and he first supported Egnatius Rufus and his private-enterprise fire-brigade until he realised Egnatius was a danger, at which point he executed Egnatius and nationalised the fire-brigade. He removed occasions of unrest by paying off retired soldiers with money rather than letting them loose to seize land in Italy, and he paid provincial governors a salary to reduce problems to himself from their practice of extortion. Throughout, he adopted the old names and titles while systematically inverting what was done in their name.<br /><br />Syme has had to interpret the sources, and I have had to interpret Syme. That's history for you. It is a matter of using our brains, and it won't just prove what we prefer it to prove. In the last resort this history gives no comfort whatsoever to my own enthusiasm for democracy. In the first place Romans disliked that idea, and in the second they traded their once-cherished `libertas' (such as it ever was) for stability, such as it turned out to be. Augustus established a monarchy, leaving a successor of last choice who, as a Roman noble (unlike Augustus), wanted supremacy but hated the form of supremacy he inherited. It all lasted for 400 or 500 effective years. The thousand-year Reich of 1939 lasted all of 12, the British Empire roughly 150, the Soviet empire some 40 or 70 depending on when we start counting, and the New American Century looks dead in the water already. It was the creation of one city and of one man, through oligarchies of course. Go figure.tatus quo ante, but took the unprecedented step of accepting dictatorship for life and appointing a successor, something not even Sulla had contemplated.  <br /> <br />From there on fate favoured Octavian. His luck was phenomenal, his ruthlessness total, his skill in balancing interests and oligarchies unprecedented, and his mendacity instinctive and brilliant. He was the butcher of Perusia and the co-tyrant of the proscriptions, and he never really changed.  He was by no means all-powerful, but he eviscerated the old aristocratic oligarchies and established his own. Unrest had suited him during his rise, stability after he reached the top. He had a genuine Roman respect for tradition, but he had a populist sense that the plebs would be kept on-side with a better water-supply. He knew a good idea when he saw it, and he first supported Egnatius Rufus and his private-enterprise fire-brigade until he realised Egnatius was a danger, at which point he executed Egnatius and nationalised the fire-brigade. He removed occasions of unrest by paying off retired soldiers with money rather than letting them loose to seize land in Italy, and he paid provincial governors a salary to reduce problems to himself from their practice of extortion. Throughout, he adopted the old names and titles while systematically inverting what was done in their name. <br /> <br />Syme has had to interpret the sources, and I have had to interpret Syme. That's history for you. It is a matter of using our brains, and it won't just prove what we prefer it to prove. In the last resort this history gives no comfort whatsoever to my own enthusiasm for democracy. In the first place Romans disliked that idea, and in the second they traded their once-cherished `libertas' (such as it ever was) for stability, such as it turned out to be. Augustus established a monarchy, leaving a successor of last choice who, as a Roman noble (unlike Augustus), wanted supremacy but hated the form of supremacy he inherited. It all lasted for 400 or 500 effective years. The thousand-year Reich of 1939 lasted all of 12, the British Empire roughly 150, the Soviet empire some 40 or 70 depending on when we start counting, and the New American Century looks dead in the water already. It was the creation of one city and of one man, through oligarchies of course. Go figure.	2005-05-10
US	46899882	R3JKLQDMDMSRH8	0071414177	991229357	Teach Yourself Italian Complete Course Package (Book + 2CDs) (Teach Yourself Language Complete Courses)	Books	5	90	106	N	Y	LISTEN AND LEARN	Simple household technology that we take for granted nowadays has made a world of difference to learning modern languages. To be able to listen to the language properly spoken with the book open in front of us turns what used to require a school course of 5 or 6 years in my time into a process requiring only days for a comparatively simple language such as Italian.<br /><br />I'm not suggesting for one moment that the few hours I gave to this course have turned me into a fluent speaker of Italian. What I do say is that this course has taken me to the point of basic competence in the time that 50 years ago would have been needed for me to master a few horrid little phrases, at the level of A Cat Sat On A Mat. In my day the teaching of modern languages was like the Monty Python sketch about the rat pie - great detail on how to catch, kill and skin your rat, then when you come to the bit you really want it says `You then make it into a pie'. When learning a modern language in the 50's we used to have to grind through all manner of pedestrian detail and unusable vocabulary only to find ourselves totally at sea when confronted with the language in its proper setting. One of the better things about this course is that the speakers talk about things most visitors to Italy would expect to talk about. There are exceptions of course. Not only is this a book and cd for family consumption, there seems to be nothing telling us how to ask to find the lavatory, for instance. However they have got away from the strange preoccupation that old-style primers used to have with traffic accidents - `See, the train has left the rails' and that kind of thing. Another of the better aspects is that we are listening to authentic pronunciation: I went through an entire school course in French without realising that French has a pitch-accent not a stress-accent and that all syllables are of more or less the same length. Just to have been told that once would have made all the difference, but the best way of all is to hear Italian spoken clearly and without rush, so that its special way with pitch, stress and the length of sounds is there for us to learn and imitate.<br /><br />Many of us find that it is easier at first to grasp the language in writing than from speech, and that we get more information from La Repubblica than from television when it comes to the news. As far as that's concerned, I would reinforce the point about listening carefully. Italians tend to talk quickly (in particular women TV presenters rattle away like woodpeckers for some reason) but Italian is a language that makes for distinctness when spoken, and if you have got your ears accustomed to the proper sound of it you may be surprised how quickly you start adapting. Don't expect it to be effortless - there is no escape from learning the verbs by rote, for one thing, so just do that and don't expect it brought to you on a tray involving no work on your own part.<br /><br />There is a short Italian-English and a significantly shorter English-Italian vocabulary at the back of the book. This is as it should be. Trying to learn a foreign language by looking up English words is the wrong way to try to do it, and this course is right in giving us no encouragement to. My advice is to follow the course methodically from start to finish. If you do that you will soon be better at Italian than I am.e best way of all is to hear Italian spoken clearly and without rush, so that its special way with pitch, stress and the length of sounds is there for us to learn and imitate.<br /><br />Many of us find that it is easier at first to grasp the language in writing than from speech, and that we get more information from La Repubblica than from television when it comes to the news. As far as that's concerned, I would reinforce the point about listening carefully. Italians tend to talk quickly (in particular women TV presenters rattle away like woodpeckers for some reason) but Italian is a language that makes for distinctness when spoken, and if you have got your ears accustomed to the proper sound of it you may be surprised how quickly you start adapting. Don't expect it to be effortless - there is no escape from learning the verbs by rote, for one thing, so just do that and don't expect it brought to you on a tray involving no work on your own part.<br /><br />There is a short Italian-English and a significantly shorter English-Italian vocabulary at the back of the book. This is as it should be. Trying to learn a foreign language by looking up English words is the wrong way to try to do it, and this course is right in giving us no encouragement to. My advice is to follow the course methodically from start to finish. If you do that you will soon be better at Italian than I am.	2005-04-22
US	46899882	R1DZE0RFRC9OCN	B0007K9SQK	5489203	Tread Softly for You Tread on My Jokes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	ANTI	In sheer journalistic talent Muggeridge rivals Macaulay and his own pet hate Shaw. More readable, racy, elegant, withering and entertaining English prose hardly exists. To call him prejudiced would understate the matter, but the special thing about him was the way his prejudices changed. This may be in part the classic swing from radical to conservative, but frankly I doubt it. It seems to me that he was compulsively anti to the very end. When the orthodoxy was conservative, Muggeridge was an iconoclast. When the orthodoxy started to go liberal and 'correct' Muggeridge swung sharply the opposite way. What he was not was any kind of poseur. There is no mistaking the fervour in his contempt for maundering C of E vicars and their well-meaning benevolent platitudes and the revulsion he felt for the 'liberal inanities' that he had himself churned out as a columnist for the Manchester Guardian. There is an almost complete lack of charity and human sympathy in his outlook as he presents it, particularly in the the very 'theological' Christianity that he came to embrace, and this seems to have been at complete variance with his personality as it showed itself to those who knew him closely. His writing is all the more enjoyable for that, even (perhaps especially) to an unreconstructed liberal like myself. He would not have liked anyone to say this, but in this respect he reminds me of nobody so much as Shaw, who he declared was 'wrong about everything'. I suppose that 'Down With Sex' is an understandable reaction from an ageing man who had obviously had enough of it. My own favourite piece in this book is 'The Pursuit of Happiness' -- it won't surprise you to learn he was against it, (and so, as it happens, was Shaw.) His image of the gadarene swine being in pursuit of happiness as they leapt to destruction over the cliff will be with me for ever. His own views as they developed seem to me every bit as absurd as those he excoriates, but what makes him compulsive for me is the way he said it all, or nearly all until he finally became a religious bore, a side of him that is happily absent from this vintage collection, now available for next to nothing.e way he said it all, or nearly all until he finally became a religious bore, a side of him that is happily absent from this vintage collection, now available for next to nothing.	2005-03-25
US	46899882	R1RDNGMERNDLS6	0812509668	426644102	The Medusa In The Shield (Dark Descent)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	LOVE THE DESTROYER	Without even knowing what other stories this volume may contain, I recommend it wholeheartedly as being the place to find How Love Came to Professor Guildea by Robert Hichens.<br /><br />Guildea is one of the most original tales I have ever encountered. Hippolytus in legend was destroyed by Aphrodite for neglecting her rites, but the rites of Aphrodite are the rites of love in the full sexual sense. This tale is as completely asexual as has ever seen print, and whatever the strange entity is through which Guildea meets his end the transaction it demands is affection, in the way a pet animal demands that. You can cut the story as various kinds of parable, and what gives it a lot of its atmosphere is that it suggests several possibilities and comes down firmly on the side of none. Guildea encounters whatever it is he encounters around the time of his meeting with the equally chaste and celibate Father Murchison, and the friendship between them is one of intellectual respect and compatibility. Murchison deals in love of all mankind as enjoined by his Christianity, Guildea is contemptuous but innocent of hatred. The unseen visitation makes its demands solely on Guildea. What brought it to him? Why does it focus on Guildea and not at all on Murchison? There might be an erotic sub-plot, but I for one wouldn't bet on that.<br /><br />At 30 or so pages, 'Guildea' is more than a short story. It leaves me weighing up the possibilities and getting nowhere. Is it a lesson for atheists? A creature of this kind has nothing to do with Christianity that I can see, certainly not with the kind espoused by Murchison. To read it as some platitudinous morality-tale to the effect that one ought to love someone just seems to me to diminish a narrative with a remarkable sense of atmosphere and mystery. The precise meaning of it all may be clearer to some readers than it is to me, but for me clarity is the last thing I want from this weird little story.<br /><br />I sought it here, I sought it there. You'll find it here, I believe, but if you can find it anywhere I recommend whatever book you find it in.d it here, I believe, but if you can find it anywhere I recommend whatever book you find it in.	2005-03-10
US	46899882	R3COWMV04JLTUD	0753816954	919153587	The Last Diaries	Books	4	7	9	N	N	NIGHT MUST FALL	The first volume of Alan Clark's `Diaries' got him a lot of notice and publicity through their candour about his extra-marital affairs and their liberal use of four-letter words and longer words derived from them. He just lapped up publicity. He looked an utter spiv, and he remained to the end of his days, despite the most expensive English education, despite his brains and sensibility and despite his restless and hunted hyperactivity, an out-and-out vulgarian. He had what passed for ideas in the Conservative party of his time, and the second volume of his journal records what seems to have been for him the most significant event of his thwarted career, the downfall of his revered Margaret Thatcher. When it comes to this third and final volume what seemed to most of us a lot more significant than that, namely the apparent downfall of the Conservative party itself, rates barely a mention. Behind his disgusted and semi-despairing withdrawal from politics, and then the late against-the-odds revival of his career with its attendant illusory hopes and voices of encouragement, he was hearing from early in his seventh decade the sound of scything, until the shades of night, for years mocking and teasing, fell on him with one fast swoop. And that closing sequence is what this book is mainly about, not affairs either public or private.<br /><br />As regards dalliances, there is only the tail-end (so to speak) of his final fling at the start of this book, his paramour's name disguised this time as `x'. The politics is largely a matter of selection-meetings and House of Commons small talk - as I've said the real tectonic shift (apparently, so far) in British politics represented by the landslide Labour victory in 1997 is passed over in a summary fashion. Clark himself had foreseen it. He even wished for it, seduced in the familiar way with the ambitious notion that the Tory edifice had to be rased in order to be raised again, and that he might be the man of the hour. The hour was already too late and he wasn't the man. His most attractive trait (for me anyway) as a public figure was his iconoclastic tendency to open his big mouth and say what might come into it in a fit of annoyance or just for the sake of seeing what might happen if he said it. At one point he said on the airwaves that the way to deal with insurrection in Ulster was to kill a few hundred people in one night, and that would put paid to the matter for 20 years, let the US or the UN say what they liked. I would not wish to be understood as thinking this opinion attractive in any way: Clark himself quietly refers later to its utter stupidity. However it gives some sort of idea of what made him an appealing figure to many, including those like myself whose opinions had little in common with his, who shared his frustration and disgust with machine politics and with mechanised thoughts and utterances on the part of politicians of any stripe.<br /><br />To this extent the third volume of his journal would be unlikely to attract much notice, and indeed it is already obtainable at remaindered rates. It is a diary quite simply, not memoirs. However a real writer of real quality would write better than Clark does even under such restrictions. There are very few phrases that are particularly memorable. And there are some clangers too - he uses `passim' in what seems to be the sense of `pace' (sc `with the greatest respect to' or simply `despite'), and he uses it passim, sc repeatedly: the so-called second half of a pentameter has a syllable too many; and `coup royal' does not have a final `e'. What gives this book its fascination is the honest and touching account of a man's dying, recorded first by himself and later by his wife when he could no longer write over the final few days of his transition. In the earlier chapters he passes through the age I am now, and nobody will be surprised to learn that I compared notes to some extent, although I do not inflict the irrelevant detailsof my own status on readers of this notice. What I do suggest however is that younger purchasers of this book should retain it and reread it when they reach in their own lives the age it records.<br /><br />As for the man himself, it was hard not to like him from a distance, although I suspect I might have found him a bore at close quarters. He only seemed radical or individualistic in the context of the dreary party he belonged to. His views were pretty run-of-the-mill among those of his economic background - no patience with issues such as education or hospitals, exasperation at maundering sermons on social conditions (I'll go along with him on that), grandiose perceptions about Britain's role, opposition to the European Union as being a `betrayal of our nationhood', a routine fascination with Churchill - I sense nothing much of interest or illumination in any of it. I also have no sympathy whatsoever for his feeble-minded moaning about a tide of scum rising, the law being structured against his like, and `class loathing'. This is just whinging, and not very percipient whinging either. The class loathing actually comes from his own side and the `class' he and his parvenu like don't really belong to. They represent indeed something that can coherently be called a `class', but what he is complaining about doesn't. On the one hand it is a culture of playing the system to obtain benefits; on the other it is a panem-et-circenses culture of football, unhealthy diets and binge-drinking; on neither showing do the participants have any interest in Clark's sidelined and pass&eacute; class. The `modish sympathisers' may be modish and may indeed be a pain in the neck or elsewhere, but they are not really sympathisers, only a loose coalition of anti-conservatives. What I treasure his memory for is his large and occasionally over-active mouth, and far and away the most entertaining snippet in this book comes when he defends English yobs abroad taking up broken bottles and half-bricks in defence of the honour of the nation's football team and other aspects of our upstanding Britishness against the forces of European darkness represented by the police who try to keep them under control. He was a bit different, but the nation's destiny lost nothing through our failing to turn to him.s on readers of this notice. What I do suggest however is that younger purchasers of this book should retain it and reread it when they reach in their own lives the age it records.    As for the man himself, it was hard not to like him from a distance, although I suspect I might have found him a bore at close quarters. He only seemed radical or individualistic in the context of the dreary party he belonged to. His views were pretty run-of-the-mill among those of his economic background - no patience with issues such as education or hospitals, exasperation at maundering sermons on social conditions (I'll go along with him on that), grandiose perceptions about Britain's role, opposition to the European Union as being a `betrayal of our nationhood', a routine fascination with Churchill - I sense nothing much of interest or illumination in any of it. I also have no sympathy whatsoever for his feeble-minded moaning about a tide of scum rising, the law being structured against his like, and `class loathing'. This is just whinging, and not very percipient whinging either. The class loathing actually comes from his own side and the `class' he and his parvenu like don't really belong to. They represent indeed something that can coherently be called a `class', but what he is complaining about doesn't. On the one hand it is a culture of playing the system to obtain benefits; on the other it is a panem-et-circenses culture of football, unhealthy diets and binge-drinking; on neither showing do the participants have any interest in Clark's sidelined and pass class. The `modish sympathisers' may be modish and may indeed be a pain in the neck or elsewhere, but they are not really sympathisers, only a loose coalition of anti-conservatives. What I treasure his memory for is his large and occasionally over-active mouth, and far and away the most entertaining snippet in this book comes when he defends English yobs abroad taking up broken bottles and half-bricks in defence of the honour of the nation's football team and other aspects of our upstanding Britishness against the forces of European darkness represented by the police who try to keep them under control. He was a bit different, but the nation's destiny lost nothing through our failing to turn to him.	2005-02-19
US	46899882	R1ZKSMY97MOURR	0520003276	605163014	The Greeks and the Irrational (Sather Classical Lectures)	Books	5	64	69	N	N	'A SIMPLE PROFESSOR OF GREEK'	Eric Dodds was sometime professor of Greek at Oxford. This book created a certain amount of a stir in its day both within and outside the arena of classical studies by either addressing, or being believed to address, up-to-date issues of anthropology and psychology. It consists basically of the Sather Classical Lectures that Dodds was invited to deliver at the University of California in 1950, and as it has been reissued in paperback in 1997 it's fair to assume that the publishers intend it to reach a wider readership than the dwindling band of classical initiates.<br /><br />I very much hope it does that, but a word or two would probably be in place regarding what to expect and what not to expect to find in the book. The author's preface warns us not to look in the book for a history of Greek religion, and more pertinently recognises that modern scholarship is a world of specialists, and Dodds reiterates right at the end that he is `a simple professor of Greek'. Amateurs, dilettantes and bluffers will find plenty of material to suit them I don't doubt, but Dodds is not one of their number. This work is best read as a standard piece of classical scholarship, not as breaking down any moulds or enclosures. The most casual glance at the daunting catalogue of references in the notes appended to each chapter will show what a vast amount of writing on the topics covered here was in situ before Dodds, and how could it be otherwise? Any commentary on, say, Plato or Empedocles or Greek history by and large had to do its best with issues of religion and trends in thought. There are numerous references to other cultures, and Dodds is certainly better versed in such matters than other classics dons that I knew. By my standards he shows wide reading and deep interest in anthropology and human behaviour. On the other hand my standards in these matters are a thing of shreds and patches, and if I wanted to improve that situation this is not where I would look. The focus here is exclusively on Greeks, and any parallels cited are cited from that point of reference. Another thing to be wary of is trying to read this book as any kind of parable for our times. In my own view it is a powerful parable for our times, but that's my own parable only. In the last chapter Dodds alludes to recent history. His date is 1950, which is nearer to the start of the first world war than to 2005. It seems to me that what he has to say about the recrudescence of irrational religion and what he calls `the pathetic reverence for the written word' is very near the bone indeed in 2005, but even if I'm right Dodds could not have known that in 1950, and modern history is invoked by him to illustrate ancient history, not the other way about.<br /><br />What one does expect and demand from a professor of Greek is knowledge and elucidation of what Greeks said thought and did. This is where The Greeks and the Irrational comes up trumps. There are eight chapters plus two appendices (on maenadism and the semi-magical theurgy). Dodds begins, very reasonably, at the beginning with Homeric terminology for the divine, seeing a culture in which values were a matter of status rather than of morality in any modern sense. He traces the development of the latter together with an analysis of various kinds of `madness', the significance (for Greeks not for Swedenborg or for Kant or for moderns) of dreams, the phenomenon of shamans in the context of trends in religious belief, the rise of rationalism and the counter-reaction that followed it, and the complex issue of Plato's teachings, which are far from unified or consistent. His final chapter is `The Fear of Freedom', and for my money this rings (or tolls) a loud clear bell in the early years of the third millennium. Genuine freedom of thought, much less of expression, is resented widely as being subversive, it seems to me, not least in a culture that likes to pose as embodying liberty by some kind of definition. In this Dodds seems tome to support my own view, but my own view it remains. Dodds is talking about Greeks.<br /><br />The presentation of the material improves as the book goes along. The early chapters contain too much Greek that should have been reserved for the notes in what was after all lectures, not the printed word, and will not be fully intelligible without help unless you have Greek. For all that they remain readable, and anyone who can recognise a first-class mind and a first-class scholar will recognise it here. In this respect Dodds has not been as adept as his Cambridge opposite number Denys Page, whose History and the Homeric Iliad followed about a decade later in the Sather series of annual lectures.(Curiously, Page was restricted to six lectures, not the eight he seemed to have been expecting.) Dodds has all eight at his disposal, the book is beautifully written, and I ended wishing there had been more. Still a book for a wide reading-public I should say, wherever intellectual curiosity and a wish to understand human thought-processes thrive.y own view, but my own view it remains. Dodds is talking about Greeks.    The presentation of the material improves as the book goes along. The early chapters contain too much Greek that should have been reserved for the notes in what was after all lectures, not the printed word, and will not be fully intelligible without help unless you have Greek. For all that they remain readable, and anyone who can recognise a first-class mind and a first-class scholar will recognise it here. In this respect Dodds has not been as adept as his Cambridge opposite number Denys Page, whose History and the Homeric Iliad followed about a decade later in the Sather series of annual lectures.(Curiously, Page was restricted to six lectures, not the eight he seemed to have been expecting.) Dodds has all eight at his disposal, the book is beautifully written, and I ended wishing there had been more. Still a book for a wide reading-public I should say, wherever intellectual curiosity and a wish to understand human thought-processes thrive.	2005-02-17
US	46899882	R36V1F8D3EVLZ9	0572028733	298053968	Vietnam: A War Lost and Won (Arcturus Military History)	Books	4	4	11	N	N	WHEN FIRST WE PRACTISE TO DECEIVE	We become enmeshed in our own deceptions and lose all sense and recollection of what we were trying to do in the first place. Simplifications that were once convenient become quagmires that we can't escape from when they are no longer so. Pretences that we thought we could get away with become embarrassments and millstones round our necks when the truth starts to get out. Objectives that seemed clear at early stages turn out to have unforeseen difficulties to them that we would rather people did not understand, so we start by blurring them in the minds of others and end up in fog and confusion ourselves.<br /><br />The Vietnam war really needs a Thucydides, but it has not lacked for chroniclers and commentators, much of the story has got out into the public record, and at least Nigel Cawthorne's account is level-headed and free from histrionics or preaching. It doesn't come over to me as a political work in the sense of taking a particularly judgmental stance regarding the combatants, and while Cawthorne obviously knows an atrocity when he sees one, where there are wider lessons to be drawn he leaves it by and large to his readers to draw them. I have not attempted to verify the detail, but a good deal of this ghastly narrative rings a bell, and I would guess that he is unlikely to be far wide of the facts in general. The miasma of deception that pervades the book is not of the author's creating, it comes from the actors. The Gulf of Tonkin incident that led to the first ratcheting-up of the stakes in the war seems to have been fabrication. Victories were regularly claimed that were no victories at all. Bombing of neighbouring countries was happening and being denied with barefaced mendacity. However it is one thing to lie to other people if one's own mind is at least clear. What in my own view is a lot worse is a pig-headed refusal to see that some basic strategic assumptions were at best questionable. Underlying this conflict was a perceived need to combat some ill-defined spread of international communism, often conveniently summed up as the domino theory. Any reasonable person could see that the Soviet Union was a squalid nuisance and that firmness was needed in dealing with it. In addition it had aspirations as a world power seeking parity, or more, of status with America, in consequence of which America invented the concept of something called `the West', a number of nations given rather more of a role than they might have wished in furthering American objectives and threatened with domino status if they stepped out of line. However it had been obvious from an early stage to President Eisenhower for one that red China was no domino nor any lackey, to say the least, of the Soviet Union, but the domino concept had caught hold, and that was what the war in Vietnam was originally supposed to have been about. Neither the Soviet Union nor China, it became increasingly clear, had much influence over Ho Chi Minh or General Giap, but we were in there now and we thought we had to stay there. Strategy after military strategy failed but the pretence of success had to be kept up, and the worse we were faring the more the same failing approach was seen as the remedy, in a familiar way -- Milton's `Serbonian bog...where armies whole have sunk'. There were even people whose credulity ran to believing that some sort of democracy was on offer from some quarter, although their number can't have included many Vietnamese.<br /><br />Let me take you to the New York Times of 9/4/67. There you will read `US encouraged by Vietnam vote: officials cite 83% turnout despite Vietcong terror', and more along the same lines. Does this remind you of something in the early weeks of 2005? Cawthorne's conclusion is interesting. We lost the wretched war anyway, and now here is Vietnam providing sweatshop labour for American commerce. The Soviet Union and any supposed threat from it have gone, and I would add that it would have collapsed anyway through its monstrous war economy with or without either Mr Reagan or the war in Afghanistan. The Vietnam war achieved precisely nothing that I can see, but we went into it as self-righteous know-alls. We are now back with that mentality, still seemingly unable to understand what motivates people and how it differs from what motivates us, under similar mendacious pretexts. It's not so much the deception that bothers me as the self-deception in it all.economy with or without either Mr Reagan or the war in Afghanistan. The Vietnam war achieved precisely nothing that I can see, but we went into it as self-righteous know-alls. We are now back with that mentality, still seemingly unable to understand what motivates people and how it differs from what motivates us, under similar mendacious pretexts. It's not so much the deception that bothers me as the self-deception in it all.	2005-02-08
US	46899882	RVZTL7YY96FBW	1585100188	772837216	Primer of Greek Grammar (Focus Classical Reprints)	Books	4	21	27	N	N	WHAT'S 'REGULAR'?	This appears to be the Greek grammar we used when I was at school, and I'm talking 50 years ago. In its smart modern paperback binding it looks a bit less forbidding, but there is nothing to suggest that it has been updated or revised in any way.<br /><br />I should think that anyone studying ancient Greek these days is studying it out of some real desire to know the language and its marvellous literature, not because it is an established part of the curriculum, which it isn't these days. There are, I would suggest, right ways and wrong ways of using this book. My idea of the right way is to do the unavoidable hard labour of learning the basic formations of Greek words, but to get into reading some real Greek as quickly as possible rather than trying to master every last nuance that you will find here. You can get a long way with Latin just by the old pedantic method of swotting up declensions and conjugations, but if you try to approach Greek in the same way you will very likely be dead having read no Greek worth reading before you get fully on top of it from that angle. Firstly, this book is full of verb-formations that you are never likely to see in a month of Sundays. Secondly, the verbs in Greek are all over the place - the number of verbs that could be called completely `regular' in the Latin sense is minimal. Nouns and adjectives are easier in that respect, and a little bit of old-style hard slog will reward the effort over these.<br /><br />What the beginner in classical Greek needs above all is the right kind of teacher. Having mastered the unavoidable groundwork, the student needs to be shown as soon as possible how Greek actually says things, and that is where the real thrill begins to kick in. As the student begins to develop some confidence, this book will come to be more of a work of reference and less of a `primer'. When the general sense of a passage suggests what some unfamiliar-looking verb-form might mean, the book can be used to confirm or falsify the suggestion. However to do that one needs to have an idea where to look in the first place, and it is a bit of a waste of this short life to try to learn, let alone memorise, anything and everything that one might possibly come across when a bit of familiarity with what Greek authors actually said can implant an instinct for the matter far better. Again, in the chapter on syntax the book knows and deploys the correct syntactical term for every kind of usage, no matter how ordinary the usage and how sesquipedalian the term. Some of the terms are genuinely useful and worth committing to memory, for instance the accusative of duration of time or the genitive of comparison. In other cases the Greek usage is no different from ordinary English usage - `ponou mnemon' translates straightforwardly into English as `mindful of toil' and I shall soon have forgotten that this is some `genitive of reference'; and one thing that could really do with removing is the second example in section 8 on page 170 which purports to illustrate the use of two accusatives and contains only one.<br /><br />Commendably, there is a chapter on Homeric forms, which are a bit baffling to start with for a student whose first acquaintance is necessarily with Attic, the dialect spoken in Athens. This is somewhere again where good teaching and instruction are needed to give the student confidence. I remember L R Palmer in a lecture saying jokingly that in reading the Iliad once you have read the first 23 books the 24th is comparatively simple. In fact the situation is nowhere near as dire as that - the Homeric epics are built on formulae, and one can get used to those surprisingly quickly, but it's better to learn them directly and under guidance with this book as a reference only. In passing I was delighted to note that even at the time of first compiling this book the original editors were on the right side of `the Homeric question', seeing the Iliad and Odyssey as the product of a folk-traditionand ignoring with disdain the despicable and sentimental English pretence to detect a single divinely inspired author through their own superior literary perception. Also useful to the student here is the identification of the `digamma', a w-sound lost by the time Greek adopted alphabetic writing but essential to the understanding of scansion in Homer.<br /><br />Most pleasing of all are the last two words of the book. Following a particularly indigestible paragraph on Historic Principal Verbs and Primary Conjunctives, we find the words<br /><br />  THE ENDadition and ignoring with disdain the despicable and sentimental English pretence to detect a single divinely inspired author through their own superior literary perception. Also useful to the student here is the identification of the `digamma', a w-sound lost by the time Greek adopted alphabetic writing but essential to the understanding of scansion in Homer.  <br /> <br />Most pleasing of all are the last two words of the book. Following a particularly indigestible paragraph on Historic Principal Verbs and Primary Conjunctives, we find the words  <br />                        THE END <br />	2005-02-03
US	46899882	R3TIXURHNOERH1	0199102066	107780535	An Intermediate Greek-English Lexicon: Founded upon the Seventh Edition of Liddell and Scott's Greek-English Lexicon	Books	4	22	33	N	N	Fair as a star when only one/Is shining in the sky	Dictionaries, however much we feel the need for them, always have to be handled with a certain amount of caution. Anyone involved in the compilation of such a work of reference has to be a jack of rather too many trades for total reliability. In even the best modern English dictionaries the derivation of words can often be seen to be dubious or even plain wrong by someone who has the requisite academic linguistic grounding. Such a grounding is infrequent, those working on the chain-gangs producing the dictionary are often not aware that there is anything lacking, but the general public are prone to believe that everything in so august a publication must flow directly from some fount of all wisdom and knowledge. Lewis and Short's Latin dictionary, the standard work of its kind for English-speaking readers of Latin, exhibits at one point the glaring and elementary error of stating that the feminine adjective Libyssa, Latinised from Greek, has some corresponding masculine formation Libyssus, and when I last saw the book nobody seemed to have picked the error up.<br /><br />Greek itself is a bigger and more complex language than Latin, but the task of the lexicographer with Greek is in some ways easier. Greek is a much more self-contained language, although it was written in antiquity in a large variety of dialects, and the dialect that predominates in its literature, the Attic dialect of Athens, is in many ways idiosyncratic and untypical. In compiling this volume the editors have decided, very reasonably, to include all vocabulary from Homer to the end of the Attic period, and also to include some important extras, notably words used in the Koine of the New Testament. These days it is likely that the proportion of students of Greek who approach it with a view to studying scripture is higher than it was half a century and more ago, in proportion as traditional classical studies have declined. With this in mind I started with a scriptural word, and I got an unpleasant shock. The word `skarphos', the supposed `mote' in someone's eye in Matthew, is not even there. I picked this word because skarphos means a stick, not a mote, and I had wished to see how the dictionary dealt with it. Not at all was the answer I got. I had better luck with a dozen or so other words, but even in such a small set of searches I also found that the Grecised equivalent of the Latin coin a `quadrans' is not there either.<br /><br />The real reason for deficiencies of this kind is that the focus is strongly on Attic, and properly so when this work was put together a century and a quarter ago. They have a brave go at Homer, but some familiar old nonsense is still here in my pristine-quality new volume. Could you be capable of supposing that Homer talked about `convoluted cows' or `crumpled cows'? I thought not. Translating `helikas bous' as `cows with crumpled horns' may save embarrassment, but the Greek says nothing about horns. The ancient scholars told us that this `helix' is a word meaning dark or black, coincidental in form with the word for a whorl. They give no further explanation, but it certainly makes better sense to think of `helikopes' when applied to the Achaeans as meaning `dark eyed' and not some ludicrous image of them characterised by rolling their eyes, which is what the dictionary would have us believe. If the expression may be forgiven, I consider these poor crumpled cows to be my betes noires. They are just black cows, the poor things. Again, the reader of book IV of the Odyssey is brought up short at the end of the very first line with the adjective `ketoessan' applied to Lacedaemon. I suppose it has to be translated as something, but in the first place the ancient commentators make no bones about it that the meaning of the word was long lost even in their time, and in the second `cavernous' is not even true.<br /><br />If I seem to focus overly on shortcomings I would do the same with any other dictionary. Sometimes we know no better and have to trust the dictionary, but when we do know better there is no reason for superstitious awe. This book is an excellent practical solution to the unwieldy 2-volume format of the original Liddell and Scott. Some urges will just not be denied, and I simply have to read Greek again. I am encouraged and not a little excited at how well in general my memory has retained my Greek over nearly half a century, and I have every confidence in the basic work of reference that I have just acquired in this convenient shape and size.etter and have to trust the dictionary, but when we do know better there is no reason for superstitious awe. This book is an excellent practical solution to the unwieldy 2-volume format of the original Liddell and Scott. Some urges will just not be denied, and I simply have to read Greek again. I am encouraged and not a little excited at how well in general my memory has retained my Greek over nearly half a century, and I have every confidence in the basic work of reference that I have just acquired in this convenient shape and size.	2005-02-03
US	46899882	RQTWA0NF2LDBN	1400043700	196292385	At Risk	Books	4	14	15	N	N	INTELLIGENCE	In my far from extensive reading of espionage novels I think this is the first since Maugham's Ashenden, which is a different kind of book entirely, where I have actually been able to follow the plot. There are probably two reasons for this. One is that the author is a top-level intelligence insider, and one who reached the top through working up within the organisation, and who consequently knows and is able to convey the real feel of it. The other, I suspect, is that she is a newcomer to fiction-writing who has not quite mastered the trick of bamboozlement, although of course it may also be that she has no interest in that and that nothing was further from her intention.<br /><br />Dame Stella Rimington has, to my way of thinking, a very attractive cast of mind, at least to the extent that it shows in this book. By her own admission her 'narrator' (to all intents and purposes) has a lot of herself in her. If she had tried to suggest otherwise I would not have believed her for an instant. I enjoyed the ironic little asides, especially the one about publishing memoirs in the teeth of official disapproval. I liked this kind of professionalism in respect of the job too. It is the mind-set of a reasonable, dedicated but level-headed woman with a sense of humour and a sense of proportion, making the best sense she can of the terrorist mentality without either ideological blindness on the one hand or fuzzy-headed liberalism on the other. She even shows an engaging detachment regarding her 'narrator's own emotional involvement, and it may be that organising that side of it into a story was a help to her personally. The character-drawing is distinctly good, I should say, although I am curious to know why she chose the name Ray Gunter in one case. A certain Ray Gunter was minister of labour in Harold Wilson's first cabinet in 1964, and Dame Stella is of an age to remember him at least as well as I do. Those were the days when a Labour government was deeply suspect in the intelligence community as having dark and improbable links with a supposed international communist conspiracy, and it could be that they sought such tendencies even in the wholly unprogressive Gunter, a figure as deeply unalluring as the thuggish fisherman and people-smuggler in her tale. Her device of introducing one or two minor characters as observers of the scene here and there works quite well for me, adding a bit of variety to the narrative. The style of writing is light, racy and enjoyable for the most part, though she and her editors between them might have tidied up a few slipshod touches. In particular even in this day and age someone ought to have known that `tempus mutantur' is a howling solecism, and there was a time when no reputable publisher, probably no disreputable one either, would have let `who's' through for `whose'.<br /><br />The plot-line is good and well sustained in general. I don't know whether the 'narrator's intention to break off her affair was meant to be left hanging in the way it is, but my main difficulty with the story was actually that the intended terrorist atrocity seems, by the standards we are coming to know, comparatively minor. In one respect Dame Stella is ambiguous, and I hope intentionally so. Right at the beginning of the book the 'narrator' highlights the co-operative attitude of the various security agencies in response to the prime minister's demand that turf-wars must not happen in the post-9/11 environment. Right at the end we find out what has actually happened in that respect. The 'narrator' does not emphasise the contrast, and I wonder what the author means us to think. The way the actors behave is not something unique to the world of security, it is what happens in big organisations generally. There is more to intelligence than intelligence in either sense of the word, and Dame Stella can't have reached the position she did without finding that out at an early stage.nce community as having dark and improbable links with a supposed international communist conspiracy, and it could be that they sought such tendencies even in the wholly unprogressive Gunter, a figure as deeply unalluring as the thuggish fisherman and people-smuggler in her tale. Her device of introducing one or two minor characters as observers of the scene here and there works quite well for me, adding a bit of variety to the narrative. The style of writing is light, racy and enjoyable for the most part, though she and her editors between them might have tidied up a few slipshod touches. In particular even in this day and age someone ought to have known that `tempus mutantur' is a howling solecism, and there was a time when no reputable publisher, probably no disreputable one either, would have let `who's' through for `whose'.     The plot-line is good and well sustained in general. I don't know whether the 'narrator's intention to break off her affair was meant to be left hanging in the way it is, but my main difficulty with the story was actually that the intended terrorist atrocity seems, by the standards we are coming to know, comparatively minor. In one respect Dame Stella is ambiguous, and I hope intentionally so. Right at the beginning of the book the 'narrator' highlights the co-operative attitude of the various security agencies in response to the prime minister's demand that turf-wars must not happen in the post-9/11 environment. Right at the end we find out what has actually happened in that respect. The 'narrator' does not emphasise the contrast, and I wonder what the author means us to think. The way the actors behave is not something unique to the world of security, it is what happens in big organisations generally. There is more to intelligence than intelligence in either sense of the word, and Dame Stella can't have reached the position she did without finding that out at an early stage.	2005-01-30
US	46899882	R1235RSGWMCE4B	0575601108	158999994	Richter 10	Books	3	6	7	N	N	RICHTER 10, RATING 3	When this book eventually gets into its stride it's a lot better than you might think to begin with. Sir Arthur took to outsourcing his narratives with the later volumes of the Rama series, and at first I thought this was going to be as bad as those were. I reread it in the aftershock of the tsunami disaster of 12/26/04, something I wouldn't otherwise have done.<br /><br />Clarke's true genius in fiction is as a short-story writer, and it seems to me that the great Childhood's End was the only real full-length novel he had in him. Even it hardly runs to 200 pages. The City and the Stars is slightly longer, but it is a reworking of an earlier 'novella' and gets a bit too big for its boots; and such productions as The Fountains of Paradise and Rendezvous with Rama itself are stretched to the limits of what he is comfortable with. Subcontracting was one answer, and this story is based on an outline plot by Clarke (provided at the back) fleshed out to full standard novel length by Mike McQuay. The opening chapters are bloodsome - stilted dialogue, cardboard cutouts of characters and the event that triggered the environmental disaster which forms the basis of the plot given to one of the characters to 'tell', in a plonking and ludicrous way, to other characters who must have known all about it in the first place. Matters then improve as the scientific issues take centre stage. This was really Clarke's secret. He deserves no less an accolade than as one of the major educators of our age, bringing physics and astronomy to the masses. Even in his fiction he is always didactic, always explaining this or that scientific issue or correcting popular misapprehensions. Once the science takes control of the narrative, the characterisation here becomes less important, more like the routine way Clarke himself handles it. The basic scenarios may seem fantastic and contrived, but the story is about what they would be like in real life (and real death on a large scale) supposing they did happen. One would not assess Stapledon on some basis of 'realism' and I for one am not inclined to assess his admirer Clarke on any such basis either. There is a real vision behind it all, an imaginative world. The disasters here are small beer indeed by comparison with Stapledon, and of course Clarke starts from a sound scientific grasp, something Stapledon never pretended to, and pushes the envelope to a certain extreme. How extreme he is really being I wouldn't like to judge, and not just because of recent events. This planet is a dynamic and unquiet thing.<br /><br />Even the political background, which seems to border on farcical in the opening chapters, begins to fit in a little more as the book proceeds and as McQuay begins to take some recognisable stance of his own regarding it. I have no idea whether earthquakes can really be predicted let alone stopped, but if that gave us the opportunity to do something useful with the nukes at long last there would be two major benefits not one. The Richter 10 event is scheduled to take place shortly before my own 119th birthday, so I am unlikely to be a victim of it. Even my children are likely to be too old to care by then, whether or not southern California is by that time as familiar a stamping-ground of theirs as it already is of mine. I must say the thought of earthquakes is always somewhere at the back of my mind during my visits to Los Angeles. How this book will affect my thinking on any future visit I don't know, but I now have some elementary do's and don'ts to bear in mind from an informed source, much good may they do me.y did happen. One would not assess Stapledon on some basis of 'realism' and I for one am not inclined to assess his admirer Clarke on any such basis either. There is a real vision behind it all, an imaginative world. The disasters here are small beer indeed by comparison with Stapledon, and of course Clarke starts from a sound scientific grasp, something Stapledon never pretended to, and pushes the envelope to a certain extreme. How extreme he is really being I wouldn't like to judge, and not just because of recent events. This planet is a dynamic and unquiet thing. <br /> <br />Even the political background, which seems to border on farcical in the opening chapters, begins to fit in a little more as the book proceeds and as McQuay begins to take some recognisable stance of his own regarding it. I have no idea whether earthquakes can really be predicted let alone stopped, but if that gave us the opportunity to do something useful with the nukes at long last there would be two major benefits not one. The Richter 10 event is scheduled to take place shortly before my own 119th birthday, so I am unlikely to be a victim of it. Even my children are likely to be too old to care by then, whether or not southern California is by that time as familiar a stamping-ground of theirs as it already is of mine. I must say the thought of earthquakes is always somewhere at the back of my mind during my visits to Los Angeles. How this book will affect my thinking on any future visit I don't know, but I now have some elementary do's and don'ts to bear in mind from an informed source, much good may they do me. <br />	2005-01-18
US	46899882	RYEGP2A03NIXF	037572706X	578369457	Julian: A Novel	Books	5	83	91	N	N	APOSTATE	The fourth century AD is a period I have never known much about. The first I ever heard about the emperor Julian the Apostate was actually the unflattering caricature by St Gregory Nazianzen, quoted here again in the novel. There is a plus-side and there is a minus-side to reading a historical novel from ignorance of the background, the plus-side being obviously that one is not distracted from appreciating it for what it is - creative writing. I feel sure the downside outweighs that, all the same. There is obviously considerable erudition behind this book, and if I ever improve my grasp of the background I would expect to find real historical insights, whatever the author may have adapted, removed or added. What is clear to me is that Vidal at least thinks as a genuine historian - his narrative is about the right things that should go into a historical analysis.<br /><br />The novel is partly concerned with rehabilitating Julian, but it is about more than that, indeed about more than his life-story altogether. It is about early Christianity and the mind-sets that went with that. Julian was appalled by Christianity, and so, quite evidently, is Vidal. For him, early Christianity was a noxious perversion of human thought-processes. Christianity of this period tried to enforce beliefs, and would stop at nothing in the process. This should make us pause to ask - how can any belief be obligatory? Only our actions can be subject to our own will, let alone anyone else's, and holding a belief is not an action. There is a restricted sense in which it could be described as that, namely the sense in which `holding' means `propounding', as in a book or a lecture. In more normal usage to `hold' a belief is just to `have' a belief, and we either do or do not believe something - it's a state of affairs like having a headache, not a voluntary or enforceable act like holding a sword or holding a meeting. On top of that there is the question - what, if anything, did the doctrines the Christians were slaughtering one another over even mean? The doctrine of the Trinity was something to kill for, it seems. Even in my time the answer to rational questioning was that some `truths' (in whatever sense) were above reason but revealed by God, but of course one had to take someone's word for that. It was all of a piece with mortification of the flesh and repression of natural instincts, as Vidal quietly implies - any faculties, brain or body, that the Creator may have given us, presumably to use, were not only suspect but evil and those who saw the matter otherwise would be dealt with, as Julian himself was finally dealt with at the age of 32.<br /><br />The book ends with a fascinating question left suspended, as much good history does. Julian was killed in his early prime, through treachery by one of his own officers, at Ctesiphon on the Tigris, the scene of new unresolved issues even as I write. He had made a serious error in that battle, the first of his brilliant military career, but all was not lost by any means. If he had lived out a natural lifespan, or even postponed being murdered for some years, would he have stopped Christianity in its tracks throughout the Roman empire? Vidal does not go into the question of its origin in any depth, but what he highlights clearly is that it was unique among religions in being new. The associated myths and legends that in other faiths had grown up gradually from the dawn of time were being strenuously created for Christianity at top speed and even more strenuously enforced. Julian and his author saw it as still having only shallow roots, but it was an idea whose time had come, it commanded fierce loyalty as Julian's own beliefs did not, and the odds must have been against him.<br /><br />Julian's reign is well documented, not least by himself, and the story rests on his own accounts supplemented by those of two familiars. The narrative is accomplished, the writing style elegant and often ironic and witty as one would expect.  However the reasons that led Vidal to put nearly five years of his life into writing about Julian in particular go far beyond the availability of copious source-material. There is nothing mysterious about these reasons - the author makes them abundantly clear. The real mystery, as he leaves me in no doubt either, is how human beings in the mass manage to think the way they seem to.ty as one would expect.  However the reasons that led Vidal to put nearly five years of his life into writing about Julian in particular go far beyond the availability of copious source-material. There is nothing mysterious about these reasons - the author makes them abundantly clear. The real mystery, as he leaves me in no doubt either, is how human beings in the mass manage to think the way they seem to.	2005-01-14
US	46899882	R1V7CDRYCTXKVV	0520032462	497205398	History and the Homeric Iliad (Sather Classical Lectures)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	HISTORY AND THE CAMBRIDGE PROFESSOR	Professor Page's scholarship is deep and wide, a bit like the roaring torrent in Longfellow's Excelsior. One is never left in much doubt what he thinks, and L R Palmer remarks drily in Myceneans and Minoans that 'he is bolder in expression' than are professional archaeologists. To be fair, one is never left in any doubt either as to why he thinks as he does. He presents his evidence and argues his case with absolute frankness. More than that, he is a very good read, and those interested in the story of the siege of Troy and the value of the Iliad as a record of what took place will find this attractively and often amusingly written book an absorbing account of the matter, for all the paraphernalia of professional scholarship.<br /><br />Denys Page was formerly professor of Greek at Cambridge, and this book constitutes, with some additions, the text of the six Sather classical lectures that he was invited to give at Berkeley in the winter of 1957. Their timing was good. The decipherment of the Linear B tablets, found both on the Peloponnese and at the Palace of Minos in Crete, had only just happened. Moreover it was not long (by classical standards) since the important work of Milman Parry in establishing that the Iliad was the outcome of a folk-tradition of unwritten oral poetry. England more than anywhere else had some recanting to do in the latter respect. Parry's conclusions had been anticipated to a certain extent by some of the great German scholars e.g. Lachmann, to be answered with the most insufferable British condescension by the type of scholar witheringly described by Housman as 'an Englishman demonstrating the unity of Homer by sneers at \\"Teutonic professors\\", who are supposed by his audience to have goggle eyes behind large spectacles and ragged moustaches saturated in lager beer, and consequently to be incapable of forming literary judgments'. Page is on the side of the angels, and his second appendix to the book, on multiple authorship in the Iliad, is a model of clarity in putting over a case that I hope by now needs less strenuous advocacy.<br /><br />On the historical side Page is on less familiar ground. He is better known for his work on Greek texts and linguistic issues. I am slightly more at home on those sides too (si parua licet componere magnis), so when I say I find Page slightly less convincing as a historian, please make allowances for that. One sees the two sides of him very clearly in the first chapter, on references to Achaean Greeks in Hittite documents. He makes a good-sounding case for the identification of Achaean Rhodes as being the 'Ahhijawa' of the Hittites, but hardly one that justifies the sublime self-confidence of his conclusion, more one of the kind that provoked some superciliousness from Palmer. On the other hand he makes a right old meal of supposed linguistic difficulties in equating Ahhijawa with the Greek Akhaia. Sure, one mustn't jump to conclusions from such seeming resemblances, but his case is based not on those but on historical arguments, and it needs no professor come from Cambridge to tell us that Ahhijawa is not a legitimate Greek formation, and maybe not a legitimate Hittite one either. I could have told him that myself. What we are talking about is how a Greek name might have been distorted by the barbarophone Hittites, and that does not need elaborate linguistic processes. Mumbai was Bombay for long enough, and Beijing Peking, among English-speakers, after all.<br /><br />Where I found Page absolutely excellent was in his analysis of the relationship between the catalogues in book II of the Iliad and the main text as we now have it. Surely his conclusion must be right - the two show strong communality in vocabulary and startling divergence in their versions of the story, proving to me what Page says they prove, namely a common centuries-old origin and subsequent separation.<br /><br />You can enjoy this book without even being able to read Greek script let alone understand the language. Even in the daunting-looking notes to each chapter Page's delightful turns of phrase are entertaining as well as instructive. He is a gifted narrator as well, and when I think about the strange Mycenaean civilisation, part epic glory from the poets part a bureaucratic nightmare that the European Commission might envy, as shown on the Linear B documents; and then when I think about the sudden silence with the onset of the uncouth Dorians, it's likely to be Page's telling of it all that will stick with me for a while.he daunting-looking notes to each chapter Page's delightful turns of phrase are entertaining as well as instructive. He is a gifted narrator as well, and when I think about the strange Mycenaean civilisation, part epic glory from the poets part a bureaucratic nightmare that the European Commission might envy, as shown on the Linear B documents; and then when I think about the sudden silence with the onset of the uncouth Dorians, it's likely to be Page's telling of it all that will stick with me for a while.	2005-01-03
US	46899882	R1U1O0220OWQB7	0679755489	413604673	Death of Virgil	Books	5	25	30	N	Y	MUCH SENSE OF DEATH	That is a feeble translation of Virgil's phrase `plurima mortis imago'. Those three words show a special way he had of using language not as a vehicle for thought but to convey something outside and beyond thought, and it is something that this book seems to be trying to replicate on a large scale. It is not something I find in Milton, still less in the collective folk-poetry of the Homeric epics, and the nearest to it that I can think of might be in Blake. It is not the normal idiom of the Aeneid by any means, but something that gleams through unpredictably now and again, and I am no nearer now than I was 50 years ago to getting an adequate translation of such a line as `Sunt lacrimae rerum, et mentem mortalia tangunt'.<br /><br />This book is hung around the legend that the dying Virgil wanted his incomplete epic the Aeneid burned as being imperfect, but it is about much more than Virgil, or his poem, or even death itself. It is about totality, something completely shapeless, senseless and even immortal - immortal partly because death itself is permanent and cannot be killed or destroyed, partly because there is always, has been always and will be always an infinite universe of what is. The book divides into 4 sections, each named after one of the 4 elements that some ancient philosophers reasoned to make up the world - water, fire, earth and air. This division actually seems to me rather contrived and unimportant to the book, and it is nothing remotely resembling the way the ancients themselves viewed their `elements'. Ovid explains them clearly if we just correct his text to read what he must have been saying `...aer, qui quanto est pondere terrae/pondus aquae leuius, tanto est onerosior igni' - `air which is heavier than fire by the same margin as the weight of water is less than that of earth'. The ancients found exact aliquot ratios like this to be intellectually satisfying, but the last thing this book is about is exactness. In the `fire' section we are engulfed in a drifting mist of ideas, concepts and abstractions, each forever changing its identity and merging randomly into the next. The only connection with fire seems to be that this is where the question of burning the manuscript of the Aeneid first arises. The first section relates the arrival of the dying poet by barge from Greece and has nothing more about water. The third section brings us abruptly back to earth with the dialogue between Virgil and Augustus, who does not want the poem glorifying his new Rome destroyed for very worldly political reasons. The fourth resembles the second in a more pictorial way as the flotilla of boats carrying the characters of the book, losing their identities as they go, sails into the infinite; and air was the one to fill the last slot.<br /><br />At one point I read the phrase `the shadow that is language', and it is worth remembering that this edition is a translation. Translating a work like this is nothing like translating directives on food-labelling or fishery quotas in the European Commission. It is an art in its own right, it must have been superbly done, but what it simply cannot be is the same as the original. I hope it is the original that George Steiner is talking about on the back cover, because if not what he says does not deserve a moment's notice. There is nothing abnormal in the least about the English syntax here, although many sentences are certainly very long. I also doubt whether there is any useful concept of `technical advance' in fiction. There are untold million ways of being original, Joyce himself did not change the basic development of English one iota, and I don't read this work, at least in translation, as representing any more of a step-change in fiction-writing than, say, Stapledon.<br /><br />I credit Broch with a good knowledge of his poet, of Latin and of the period, although I don't know who perpetrated `Sallustus' (for Sallustius) twice on one page. He seems to associate himself with the view that the poems Aetna and Culex are Virgil's and I would rather believe that he had never read them (for which I could blame nobody) than that he could possibly have taken that stuttering rubbish for the work of the master. I dare say I would have read the book differently if I had not been familiar with Virgil's own style, but it is only a side-issue whether I am right in seeing its influence here or not. Not all the knowledge of Latin in the world will make this book an easy read, and none is necessary really. Do not make it more obscure or complicated for yourself than it already is. The previous owner of my copy was some hapless student trying to make a connection with the Divine Comedy, as forlorn a quest for mares' nests as I ever saw in my life. I wouldn't dream of `recommending' such a work, which is bound to be of minority appeal, and if I have conveyed something of the feel of it that is as much as I can hope to have done.iew that the poems Aetna and Culex are Virgil's and I would rather believe that he had never read them (for which I could blame nobody) than that he could possibly have taken that stuttering rubbish for the work of the master. I dare say I would have read the book differently if I had not been familiar with Virgil's own style, but it is only a side-issue whether I am right in seeing its influence here or not. Not all the knowledge of Latin in the world will make this book an easy read, and none is necessary really. Do not make it more obscure or complicated for yourself than it already is. The previous owner of my copy was some hapless student trying to make a connection with the Divine Comedy, as forlorn a quest for mares' nests as I ever saw in my life. I wouldn't dream of `recommending' such a work, which is bound to be of minority appeal, and if I have conveyed something of the feel of it that is as much as I can hope to have done.	2004-12-29
US	46899882	R3V3GHJLCDC0UP	0571117872	598655597	The Faber Book of Nonsense Verse	Books	3	2	3	N	N	LIKE A POTATO RIDING ON THE BLAST	This book doesn't really know what it is about and its title is a more-or-less-complete misnomer. Not wishing to spoil anyone's enjoyment, I can give it reasonable marks just as a jumble of assorted oddities and curiosities. There is a ridiculously pretentious, though mercifully short, preface by Geoffrey Grigson that tries to define nonsense. Whether it succeeds in that I can't even be bothered to make up my mind, because much of the content is not in my opinion nonsense on any definition.<br /><br />Where I come close to having an outright objection to this book is in its over-dependence on Lewis Carroll and Edward Lear. For me, these authors are simply wonderful, and any enthusiast for them, whether a lifelong fan or a newcomer, can find them in complete editions of their own and is not likely to want someone else's selections mixed in with and dominating a ragbag of stuff in other styles. At least with Lear the tone is consistent. Here and there he uses nonsense-words like `scroobious', but in general I only buy the word `nonsense' in relation to Lear because he used it himself. His originality and the sheer daftness of what he says amount to genius, but for instance<br /><br />There was an old man of Madras<br />Who rode on a cream-coloured ass;<br />But the length of its ears<br />So promoted his fears<br />That it killed that old man of Madras.<br /><br />makes perfect sense, although I find it funny to this day, 60 years after I first read it. When it comes to Carroll we are dealing with all sorts of different entities. The Jabberwocky is here, and I won't quarrel at calling it nonsense, but the white knight's tale of the aged aged man a-sitting on a gate is nothing of the kind. It is one of the funniest and most pointed parodies in the English language, guying Wordsworth's Resolution and Independence. Housman's Fragment of a Greek Tragedy is every bit as funny, but it is a systematic take-off of the idiom of Greek tragedy and particularly the idiom of some translators of it, and even of the great Greek language itself. You won't get it if you don't know ancient Greek, and I suppose it might be `nonsense' in that case, but hardly in the way Grigson intends the word, if he even knows how he intends it.<br /><br />Very little of the rest is what I could even remotely call nonsense. You don't get nonsense from W S Gilbert, you get cynicism. Goldsmith's poem on Mrs Blaize and Carey's on Namby Pamby (Philips) are satire. Housman's poem on the death of a female Salvation Army officer is blowing a raspberry. Some other efforts like the anonymous one on Brian O'Lynn and the one on the U-niversity of Gottingen are students' union drinking songs. Cuthbert Bede's `Entrance Exams' are feeble compared with the comparable things in 1066 And All That. The book even descends to hoary old Spoonerisms that everyone has known for ages are bogus, and to produce efforts in French, either `real' French or Klingon-French from Villon, is just pseudish beyond belief.<br /><br />If you want a really superb piece of 36-carat copper-bottomed nonsense, you will find it in the Sonnet Found in a Deserted Madhouse on page 70. I have picked its last line as the caption for this review, as it seems to me in some indefinable way a reasonable summing-up of this book.at Greek language itself. You won't get it if you don't know ancient Greek, and I suppose it might be `nonsense' in that case, but hardly in the way Grigson intends the word, if he even knows how he intends it.    Very little of the rest is what I could even remotely call nonsense. You don't get nonsense from W S Gilbert, you get cynicism. Goldsmith's poem on Mrs Blaize and Carey's on Namby Pamby (Philips) are satire. Housman's poem on the death of a female Salvation Army officer is blowing a raspberry. Some other efforts like the anonymous one on Brian O'Lynn and the one on the U-niversity of Gottingen are students' union drinking songs. Cuthbert Bede's `Entrance Exams' are feeble compared with the comparable things in 1066 And All That. The book even descends to hoary old Spoonerisms that everyone has known for ages are bogus, and to produce efforts in French, either `real' French or Klingon-French from Villon, is just pseudish beyond belief.     If you want a really superb piece of 36-carat copper-bottomed nonsense, you will find it in the Sonnet Found in a Deserted Madhouse on page 70. I have picked its last line as the caption for this review, as it seems to me in some indefinable way a reasonable summing-up of this book.	2004-12-13
US	46899882	R1Q7BTZGB43NFO	0586063226	382006103	The H.P. Lovecraft Omnibus 1: At the Mountains of Madness and Other Novels of Terror	Books	3	4	13	N	N	PHOOEY!	Don't get me wrong, Lovecraft is a great read, especially at this time of year. He can create terrific atmosphere, and when he can exercise some self-control (very intermittently) he creates some memorable stories. The Shunned House is a cracker, and so is The Colour Out of Space, one of his less-mentioned efforts, and also the one about the morlock-like family Martense. What the man lacked was even the most elementary self-discipline. Of his more famous outpourings I can join in recommending The Case of Charles Dexter Ward, which has the majority of his virtues without going completely o-t-t as he keeps doing. I enjoy nearly everything by him, but to enjoy, say, The Dream-quest of Unknown Kadath I have to suspend all critical faculties -- it has everything but Ye Kitchenne Sinke. In At the Mountains of Madness he may be trying to correct this tendency. The story moves slowly and for that relief much thanks, but this only shows up his lack of concentration. He literally loses the plot. I just love it despite that.<br /><br />One of his problems is that he obviously takes himself seriously. M R James is ten times the artist Lovecraft is, he is genuinely scary whereas Lovecraft is a bit of a talented but unselfconscious comic turn. I know from trying them both on my children when they wanted 'ghost stories' read to them with the lights turned down that they got a bit bored with Lovecraft but I sometimes had to stop the James stories when they were getting too frightened. James is tongue-in-cheek, you never quite know to what extent, but dear old Lovecraft is always prone to be foot-in-mouth. Where he can be a bit of a bore is with his Elder Gods, Cthulhu, Nyerlothatep and that crowd. What are they all meant to be -- frightening, his vision of the universe or what? If you feel like being frightened to the depths of your soul, try Star Maker by the cold and remote Stapledon -- not for fun-readers. At Christmas forget Stapledon. You will get a lot of fun out of Lovecraft. Having seen the second Lord of the Rings film, I am trying to imagine a battle between the balrog and one of Lovecraft's shoggoths.ft. Having seen the second Lord of the Rings film, I am trying to imagine a battle between the balrog and one of Lovecraft's shoggoths.	2004-11-22
US	46899882	R2UFM5KGKFHX72	0941533611	457553701	The Name and Nature of Poetry: and Other Selected Prose	Books	5	14	15	N	N	THE REVIEWER TO END ALL REVIEWERS	Somewhere in London there is, I am told, a commemorative plaque to Housman denoting him 'poet and scholar'. The man would have been outraged - 'scholar and poet' if you please: he would have been content with 'professor of Latin' and no mention of his poetry at all. Obviously he is better known to a general posterity for 'A Shropshire Lad' than for his three great editions of Latin poets and the great mass of contributions that he made to the learned classical periodicals, or even for his comparatively well-known inaugural address when he was given his first chair at University College London. It is his poetry that sells him, and this book has accordingly taken for its title in this new edition the title of an address that he was persuaded to give in the field of literary criticism, which he protests himself (a bit too much) to be unfitted for.<br /><br />I find his 'Name and Nature of Poetry' to be both insightful and brilliantly entertaining. Whatever you think about Housman's poetry, he was one of the finest and purest stylists in prose ever to have graced the English language. However you will not find much more here about poetry. There is a fragment of a talk he gave to a literary society in London University on Matthew Arnold, which is hilariously amusing; there is a letter to The Times offering a textual emendation to the commonly printed version of a poem by Keats; there is a review of a volume of the Cambridge History of English Literature; and that's it as far as poetry and literary criticism are concerned. There are some other items outside his normal area of operations, particularly an interesting historical review and some decidedly uninteresting bits of formal welcome he was asked to do for visits to Cambridge by the King. As for the rest, he sticks to his last.<br /><br />Housman specified unequivocally in his will that his brother Lawrence Housman should act as his literary executor with strict instructions that any hitherto unpublished prose should be destroyed, although he might publish any further poetry that he came across. The fragment of the paper on Arnold is a clear breach of his wishes in this respect, but his second inaugural address, at Cambridge, escaped Mr Carter and has had to wait for a slightly later book before becoming another such breach. Housman's anxiety has a clear cause - anything in prose might be related to his true professional reputation as a scholar, and he would not risk compromising that. Poetry he was not worried about. What we have here, in a strictly scholarly vein, are lengthy sections from his famous prefaces to Manilius and Juvenal, sundry extracts from learned articles and reviews, his scarifying address The Application of Thought to Textual Criticism with its deliberate humiliation of the people he was addressing, and one review given in full. You do not need much Latin, indeed none, to get the full flavour and benefit of these pieces. Housman himself noted once that of the five volumes of his Manilius only the first had sold out because 'it found purchasers among the unlearned who had heard that it contained a scurrilous preface from which they hoped to extract a low enjoyment'. Carter's general purpose in this edition is to communicate the said low enjoyment, and he cuts out for the most part anything of too learned or too technical a nature. Housman was brilliantly witty, and a brilliant intellect. The exasperation that wrung some of the more wounding attacks out of him was the exasperation of a scholar who saw his trade being prostituted by duffers, idlers and phonies, but it amounts in my own opinion to a great deal more than the standard bitching that learned periodicals in any discipline tend to be full of. The study of Greek and Latin is a matter of making sense of things, and the greatest practitioners of textual criticism of Greek and Latin authors are colossal figures indeed. What Housman adds in particular is not just his unique power of expression, but a conceptual framework round the process, a veritable paradigm of how to think straight.<br /><br />I certainly extract a low enjoyment out of the parts where I am intended to do just that. In terms of how to write my own language, and above all in terms of how to use my brains such as they are, I have extracted a lot more. In a highly specialised department, namely how to put together a review, I have an example second to none in the full-dress specimen contained in this book.conceptual framework round the process, a veritable paradigm of how to think straight. <br /> <br />I certainly extract a low enjoyment out of the parts where I am intended to do just that. In terms of how to write my own language, and above all in terms of how to use my brains such as they are, I have extracted a lot more. In a highly specialised department, namely how to put together a review, I have an example second to none in the full-dress specimen contained in this book.	2004-11-20
US	46899882	R2X4M36JJ46IBX	0370002261	497537176	Roman Women: Their History and Habits	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME	`Always, be it noticed, in ancient sources, it was the wife who was in danger of getting on her husband's nerves. You might think there were no irritating husbands...In the surviving literature of antiquity social criticism is a male preserve.'<br /><br />Except for a little by the poetess Sulpicia, all classical Latin literature that I can call to mind offhand is by men. Romans were not slow to criticism, and the super-articulate Ovid and Juvenal in particular did not spare women. The women have not been able to answer back, and this book does not try to do it for them, but it does a lot to promote understanding of how it was for women over the long centuries of Rome's ascendancy. Dacre Balsdon was fellow and tutor in ancient history at one of Oxford's oldest colleges, and Roman Women first saw the light in 1962. Here and there in the book an occasional remark by this fair-minded scholar shows how much attitudes have changed in 40 years, but there should be nothing in the book that jars on any other fair-minded person. It splits neatly into two parts called respectively History and (quaintly) Habits, the latter a long essay on the living (and dying) conditions of the women of Rome and its empire. Balsdon modestly deplores this abrupt split, putting it down to his own lack of ingenuity that he could not integrate the themes better. Thank goodness he failed at that - it is all quite complicated enough as it is.<br /><br />This is a scholarly work, not a popularising one. However the author hopes very reasonably that he can interest a wider audience than just students and other scholars. Marriage in general, and specific marriages in particular, are every bit as interesting in Roman times as in any other times. So is divorce, so is child-rearing. Childbirth itself, in an era before any proper midwifery or obstetrics, is discussed briefly with a proper focus on the risks; and the discussion of abortion, seemingly quite common and unquestionably legal until the end of the second century AD, has a startlingly contemporary feel in 2004. Naturally there are sections on prostitutes, concubines, slave-women and freedwomen, and there are absolutely fascinating short chapters on women's dress, hair-styling, jewellery and other make-up, plus of course the female participation in those specially Roman public institutions the baths.<br /><br />The first section `History' is unavoidably a history of government for the most part. For me this scholarly account is really more interesting than Graves managed to make it. Balsdon's focus is also on the period of the Julio-Claudian emperors, (up to and including Nero). He actually continues until the end of the reign of Constantine in the 4th century, but his narrative has a slightly detached feel in its latter stages, whether because that period and particularly the women of that period were genuinely less interesting or whether they were just less interesting to Balsdon. Rome never produced a really first-class historian to rival Herodotus and Thucydides. Tacitus is of course brilliant, but a historian needs to be more fastidious and self-disciplined than Tacitus was. Balsdon finds it necessary to say more than once that Roman tittle-tattle was of a particularly gross and vulgar kind, and he rightly takes Tacitus to task for irresponsibility in repeating stories that it was his duty to examine critically. This was true in two particular respects, both reflecting intensely on women. In the first place women had a particular role as poisoners. A Gaulish woman called Locusta was kept in jail, under permanent but always deferred sentence of death, as a kind of imperial poisoner-by-appointment. She it was who prepared, according to Tacitus among others, the first poison by which Agrippina tried to murder Claudius. It might be true, of course, but Roman gossip was always quick to equate any gastric trouble with poisoning. Similarly Balsdon is quite right in protesting against the sheer tediousness andpredictability with which the Roman gossip-mill alleged incest. Did they never get bored with it? From right back in republican times Roman women had had to put up with this insinuation, as in the cheap jibes Cicero made at Clodia in his speech Pro Caelio. Even so early, allegations of sexual deviation seemed to have lost some of their potency through repetition - Sir Ronald Syme caustically points out that for Cicero they were obviously of lesser turpitude than association with trade or the stage, to say nothing of provincial origin.<br /><br />One particular Roman woman stays in my mind. It is an empress, but not Messalina, nor Poppaea Sabina, nor Agrippina, but Nero's first empress, Octavia daughter of Claudius. In his infatuation with Poppaea Sabina Nero had Octavia framed as some sort of enemy of the state, banished and murdered in exile. The poor creature had been treated as a bit of furniture since she was only a year old and betrothed to a seeming high-flier. She enjoyed popular support where Poppaea Sabina did not, but Nero simply ratcheted up the allegations, and tears literally started to my eyes at Balsdon's description of her as `a timid and friendless little mouse'. Most of the Roman women here were of another character altogether. They seemed as ready as their menfolk to treat marriage as a market and themselves as breeding-engines to further the national objectives in supplying soldiers. In the more notorious cases of sexual excess, particularly of course Messalina, Balsdon is neither sensationalist nor coy, but even after making all allowance for the rumour-machine these stories in general, and that one in particular, show every sign of having been true. Rome was founded by the son of one goddess, Venus, in the face of the wrath of another, Juno. It almost feels as if a hyperbolic super-woman gene was implanted in the national character as a consequence.h the Roman gossip-mill alleged incest. Did they never get bored with it? From right back in republican times Roman women had had to put up with this insinuation, as in the cheap jibes Cicero made at Clodia in his speech Pro Caelio. Even so early, allegations of sexual deviation seemed to have lost some of their potency through repetition - Sir Ronald Syme caustically points out that for Cicero they were obviously of lesser turpitude than association with trade or the stage, to say nothing of provincial origin.     One particular Roman woman stays in my mind. It is an empress, but not Messalina, nor Poppaea Sabina, nor Agrippina, but Nero's first empress, Octavia daughter of Claudius. In his infatuation with Poppaea Sabina Nero had Octavia framed as some sort of enemy of the state, banished and murdered in exile. The poor creature had been treated as a bit of furniture since she was only a year old and betrothed to a seeming high-flier. She enjoyed popular support where Poppaea Sabina did not, but Nero simply ratcheted up the allegations, and tears literally started to my eyes at Balsdon's description of her as `a timid and friendless little mouse'. Most of the Roman women here were of another character altogether. They seemed as ready as their menfolk to treat marriage as a market and themselves as breeding-engines to further the national objectives in supplying soldiers. In the more notorious cases of sexual excess, particularly of course Messalina, Balsdon is neither sensationalist nor coy, but even after making all allowance for the rumour-machine these stories in general, and that one in particular, show every sign of having been true. Rome was founded by the son of one goddess, Venus, in the face of the wrath of another, Juno. It almost feels as if a hyperbolic super-woman gene was implanted in the national character as a consequence.	2004-11-07
US	46899882	R1XSWLO1QU42V1	0099433125	662018787	The Stars' Tennis Balls	Books	3	7	9	N	N	CLEVER BUT WHAT IS IT?	The title 'The Stars' Tennis Balls' looked promising, and the author was well known to me from television. Stephen Fry is the soul of imperturbable urbanity and enlightened sophisticated wit. I have heard him compared, with just a little hyperbole, to Oscar Wilde, a likeness helped by his large corporeal dimensions. When I actually read the book I found wit indeed, and sophistication, and enlightened liberal attitudes. I found a great deal else too. In particular I found myself baffled as to what Fry thought he was doing in writing let alone publishing a story like this.<br /><br />The title turns out to be taken from Webster's Duchess of Malfi, where it is meant in dead earnest - `We are merely the stars' tennis balls, struck and banded/Which way please them.' This is much the same sentiment as in Housman's `mortalem uexantia sidera sortem' - the stars that blight our human lot - suggesting that we are helpless pawns at the mercy of blind uncaring fate and chance. I am completely unable to relate this smart and eye-catching title to the story, which is one of the most improbable I ever read. There is nothing wrong with that in an appropriate case - Gulliver's Travels is not very probable on the face of it. The personae of this drama, far from being buffeted by remote eternal forces, are themselves the agents and victims of brilliant and outlandish human ingenuity, although one early catalyst of what happens is admittedly a wildly flukish coincidence, the kind of thing on which bookmakers' odds would be hard to compute. The various transformations that the main character then goes through are the stuff of legend not reality as most of us would understand the term, more like a modern Arabian Nights. Above all what puzzles me is the complete disproportion between the ostensible and humdrum reasons for ill-feeling towards the `hero' and the inferno of horrors that he first endures and then inflicts. Apart from anything else, it all takes place in a world apparently devoid of any law-enforcement.<br /><br />Two ways occurred to me to make sense of it all. One was to try to view it as fantasy, an outlandish backdrop to a display of Fry's pet dislikes, mainly petit-bourgeois snobbery and conservative and traditionalist outlooks. These outlooks certainly get short shrift from the author, in a manner familiar from a certain type of enlightened and bien-pensant English intellectual. However what it really suggested to me was the bloodthirsty imaginings of an 8-year-old boy who has taken offence at some of his schoolmates or playmates and who in his mind calls down on them supra-biblical and ultra-Dante horrors. On seeing the name Cade among the cast of characters it crossed my mind that Fry might have got some of his inspiration from Cape Fear, but what the final sequence reminded me of more than anything was some of the Vincent Price movies of happy memory, such as The Abominable Dr Phibes.<br /><br />I shall own up to mildly enjoying it, but at nearer 400 pages than 300 I recommend reading it quickly. Put it down for too long and you're not likely to pick it up again.evoid of any law-enforcement. <br /> <br />Two ways occurred to me to make sense of it all. One was to try to view it as fantasy, an outlandish backdrop to a display of Fry's pet dislikes, mainly petit-bourgeois snobbery and conservative and traditionalist outlooks. These outlooks certainly get short shrift from the author, in a manner familiar from a certain type of enlightened and bien-pensant English intellectual. However what it really suggested to me was the bloodthirsty imaginings of an 8-year-old boy who has taken offence at some of his schoolmates or playmates and who in his mind calls down on them supra-biblical and ultra-Dante horrors. On seeing the name Cade among the cast of characters it crossed my mind that Fry might have got some of his inspiration from Cape Fear, but what the final sequence reminded me of more than anything was some of the Vincent Price movies of happy memory, such as The Abominable Dr Phibes. <br /> <br />I shall own up to mildly enjoying it, but at nearer 400 pages than 300 I recommend reading it quickly. Put it down for too long and you're not likely to pick it up again.	2004-11-04
US	46899882	R113XB4DPQH2YD	0397002327	177553936	Prime of Miss Jean Brodie	Books	5	71	76	N	N	'There were legions of her kind'	By now I'm sure that Miss Jean Brodie and her prime are better known from the film than from the original novel. The film, and the absolutely wonderful stage production that preceded it in London with Vanessa Redgrave as the first Brodie, caught one side, the caricature side, of Muriel Spark's immortal creation, but the story is a more complex matter altogether, short though the book is.<br /><br />Any story by Muriel Spark is complex up to a point - her way of thinking is devious and unstraightforward and her characters tend to inhabit the moral and motivational lowlands. Insofar as they seem like real people at all rather than clever animations, her attitude towards them is usually ambivalent. Indeed it's almost fair to say that she makes her feelings for her own creations clearest, and expresses them most strongly, when those feelings consist most of repugnance, as with Patrick Seton and Father Socket in The Bachelors. Nevertheless she always seems to distance herself successfully from their general squalor through her quick wits and the dazzling speed at which she keeps rearranging the scenery.<br /><br />This book has a lot of the familiar Spark `feel' to it, but it's a bit different in some ways too. It's short, but it doesn't come across to me as a lightweight effort like The Abbess of Crewe. The cast of characters is not as large as in The Bachelors or The Ballad of Peckham Rye, but it's large enough. What makes it simpler is that it consists largely of a group of juveniles on the one hand, and on the other it is absolutely dominated by one single outsize personality, maybe the nearest to a true heroine or hero that Spark ever allowed herself. Jean Brodie is a silly woman but not a mean or corrupt one and that, in a novel by Muriel Spark, is quite something not to be. Another thing that may have softened the author's stance is that the setting is not London or the east side of Manhattan or Crewe or any other foreign clime, but her own native Edinburgh. I don't suppose she is trying to conceal her affection for it (although being who she is she doesn't indulge it either), or if she is she has failed at that. I can recognise the kinds of people and the kinds of attitude through a similar if not identical background, and it has brought out a most unusual candour in the author. At the start of chapter 3 there is a very straightforward account of the kind of Edinburgh spinster that Jean Brodie exemplifies. Spark typically springs it on us who it was that `betrayed' Miss Brodie, but once she has done so she takes us through the person's thought-processes with a most untypical clarity. The book shuttles backwards and forwards through time-frames, but this time with a sheer naturalness that conceals the cleverness of it. There is even a rare glimpse into the author's fascination with Catholicism when she discusses Miss Brodie's semi-ecumenical religious interests. Above all the typical spurts of sarcasm and ridicule are more often funny than bitchy, not the other way round as is more usual from her.<br /><br />A taste for Muriel Spark is a bit of a mini-religion itself. This book might make her a few converts.I don't suppose she is trying to conceal her affection for it (although being who she is she doesn't indulge it either), or if she is she has failed at that. I can recognise the kinds of people and the kinds of attitude through a similar if not identical background, and it has brought out a most unusual candour in the author. At the start of chapter 3 there is a very straightforward account of the kind of Edinburgh spinster that Jean Brodie exemplifies. Spark typically springs it on us who it was that `betrayed' Miss Brodie, but once she has done so she takes us through the person's thought-processes with a most untypical clarity. The book shuttles backwards and forwards through time-frames, but this time with a sheer naturalness that conceals the cleverness of it. There is even a rare glimpse into the author's fascination with Catholicism when she discusses Miss Brodie's semi-ecumenical religious interests. Above all the typical spurts of sarcasm and ridicule are more often funny than bitchy, not the other way round as is more usual from her.  <br /> <br />A taste for Muriel Spark is a bit of a mini-religion itself. This book might make her a few converts.	2004-10-28
US	46899882	R2S157ED1T72BH	0300054211	75579793	The Evolution of the Gospel: A New Translation of the First Gospel with Commentary and Introductory Essay	Books	5	14	14	N	N	INTELLECTUAL ATHLETICS	By page-count, most of this book is an English translation, with detailed scholarly commentary, of St Matthew's Gospel. However the book is about precisely what the title says - the evolution of the gospel in general. In his closely-reasoned preface Powell argues that the text of `Matthew' is the source, and the sole source, of Luke, and that Luke in turn was drawn on by Mark, but only for help with his own account, also deriving directly from `Matthew'. The derivative synoptic gospels, in Powell's view, followed quickly on their original, and before distinct families of copies came about. For this reason he gives no `stemma codicum' or hierarchy-chart of the MSS such as normally accompanies a critical edition of the Greek or Latin classics. His reasoning basically is that the text of `Matthew' is a complicated (but intelligible) combination of two main and two subsidiary threads, the two main threads representing two conflicting early schools within the new faith, the two minor threads being a `Joannine' school that interpolated as many references as it could to John the Baptist and a careful attempt, with an eye to avoiding trouble with Rome, not to criticise the Roman imperium. By adducing examples Powell illustrates his conclusion that Luke and Mark were concerned to give coherency and consistency to the slightly chaotic and self-contradictory text of `Matthew', given its importance as the basic document of the new faith. In his translation Powell himself deploys a variety of typefaces to illustrate the various influences - original, interpolated, edited and corrupted - that for him make up the text of `Matthew' as we find it.<br /><br />There is nothing adversarial in Powell's style, which is dispassionate and detached, although he shows a touch of humour here and there in the course of arguing that this or that passage does not make sense. He was no stranger to controversy in his political career, and he will have known that some of his conclusions would on their own be dynamite to conventional believers. He explicitly ignores the work of other scholars and presents his own findings backed up with detailed ratiocination but with total indifference to the effect they may create. He says in so many words `The agony in the garden is transparent fiction', and if I have even understood him he seems to say that the crucifixion of Christ never happened, as once Christ was convicted in the Jewish court of blasphemy the penalty for that, namely death by stoning, was inevitable. His approach throughout is the traditional one of the great textual critics, and he subjects the text of `Matthew' to exactly the processes that his great Cambridge predecessors Bentley, Porson and Housman (his own teacher) applied to the texts of Manilius, Horace, Juvenal or whoever.<br /><br />In trying to grapple with a work like this there is no need for any of us to be unduly overawed by the fact that we are less brainy than the writer, something that would go for most of us as far as Powell is concerned. The reader is like a juror applying thought and common sense to the case put before him or her. I am not particularly convinced when Powell jibs at `Get thee behind me Satan' on the grounds that Satan is as dangerous behind as in front. To me this order is contemptuous and imperious, given by one who had nothing to fear. Again, Powell is amusing about `Capharnaum-on-sea' and may well be right in thinking the adjective superfluous as there was no other Capharnaum. On the other hand it was quite regular in Homeric Greek for a place name to have an adjective tagged on, e.g. `sandy Pylos', and although I know the usage is far less common in Greek prose I would have to do a lot of work to prove the issue one way or the other, and similar idiom survives into modern place names. There is only one Bexhill and one Angmering in the English gazetteer, but one sees them called `Bexhill-on-Sea' and `Angmering-by-Sea' at times. At other times he is acute and to the point, as in pointing out the absurdity at 21.18 of a text that seems to tell the disciples that if they just have faith they too can go around shrivelling fig-trees. Nor, surely, can he have been the first to see that something must be wrong with the text about the seed of `mustard'. At other points it is a matter of knowledge of Greek, and in these cases I recall an expression P used in a political context - `There are no two ways about it except a right way and a wrong way'. Powell finds a `splinter' not a mote in someone's eye because `skarphos' (a stick) cannot mean `mote', and he is not even too sure it can mean `splinter'. Again, `ou me timeseis' in Greek is an emphatic prohibition `thou shalt not honour' and cannot bear any weaker meaning; and the master who rewards his workers `kata ten idian dynamin' rewards them not according to their ability but according to his own ability to reward them. Throughout, P properly draws attention to cases where the usage, or even the word itself, is unparalleled, but is equally properly wary of jumping to conclusions. Greek is a huge, flexible and untidy language, not a neat standardised little effort like Latin, and it lends itself to on-the-spot coinages.<br /><br />The production of the book is top-class. I noticed only one error in the Greek throughout, a smooth breathing for a rough breathing on the first letter in the footnote on p 95. In doing so I exercised textual criticism. It is not magic and not a mystery - one exercises it in noticing and correcting a minor misprint. In the commentary Hebrew is translated at all points, and is always a matter of citing parallels, references and quotations, never central to the argument. Greek is usually but not always translated or explained, and a reader without it will struggle a bit. The real struggle will be for anyone who believes that every word of the bible is true. Sometimes the Greek bible says one thing and the English another, sometimes the text has been altered, and sometimes we have to conjecture what the author said. So the question has to be `WHAT bible, precisely?'e point, as in pointing out the absurdity at 21.18 of a text that seems to tell the disciples that if they just have faith they too can go around shrivelling fig-trees. Nor, surely, can he have been the first to see that something must be wrong with the text about the seed of `mustard'. At other points it is a matter of knowledge of Greek, and in these cases I recall an expression P used in a political context - `There are no two ways about it except a right way and a wrong way'. Powell finds a `splinter' not a mote in someone's eye because `skarphos' (a stick) cannot mean `mote', and he is not even too sure it can mean `splinter'. Again, `ou me timeseis' in Greek is an emphatic prohibition `thou shalt not honour' and cannot bear any weaker meaning; and the master who rewards his workers `kata ten idian dynamin' rewards them not according to their ability but according to his own ability to reward them. Throughout, P properly draws attention to cases where the usage, or even the word itself, is unparalleled, but is equally properly wary of jumping to conclusions. Greek is a huge, flexible and untidy language, not a neat standardised little effort like Latin, and it lends itself to on-the-spot coinages.<br /><br />The production of the book is top-class. I noticed only one error in the Greek throughout, a smooth breathing for a rough breathing on the first letter in the footnote on p 95. In doing so I exercised textual criticism. It is not magic and not a mystery - one exercises it in noticing and correcting a minor misprint. In the commentary Hebrew is translated at all points, and is always a matter of citing parallels, references and quotations, never central to the argument. Greek is usually but not always translated or explained, and a reader without it will struggle a bit. The real struggle will be for anyone who believes that every word of the bible is true. Sometimes the Greek bible says one thing and the English another, sometimes the text has been altered,and sometimes we have to conjecture what the author said. So the question has to be `WHAT bible, precisely?'	2004-10-26
US	46899882	R3K0PSJMQN5VTI	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	4	4	6	N	N	SMARTT	For me no question about it, this is a very impressive and readable first novel. What I would say all the same is - take some of the gushier press comment with a pinch or two of salt. I find that Donna Tartt keeps control of the plot and action very well basically, the characters are quite well delineated and even to some extent developed, the writing is accomplished, the sense of `atmosphere' is memorable very often, and above all there is real distinctiveness and originality to the book. It could just about be viewed as a tragedy, but for all the show of Greekness the tragedy is more Shakespearean as defined by Andrew Bradley, if anyone still reads him. It makes more sense to me as storytelling than as sociology, creativity rather than analysis. The behaviour of the preppy young aesthetes and experience-seekers in their New England college, well-heeled enough not to need employment and consequently able to major in an elite course in ancient Greek, goes over the top into fantasy, but I was quite happy with that. I had to wonder how much Greek (or Latin) the author really knows. The Greek for `hello' is `khaire' (singular) and `khairete' (plural), not `khairei'. In the mouth of Bunny this might be a deliberate error, but not from the others. `Amor vincit omnia' is how Chaucer adapts Virgil's `omnia vincit amor', but it's Chaucer's version that she gives us. In particular the students have been awfully quick to reach an advanced stage with the language. In real life the student of ancient Greek has to struggle to memorise for examinations renderings that are absolute nonsense, like Homer's supposed `cows with crumpled horns'. These outr&eacute; beasts are simply `dark cows', but too many Greek editors think `helikas' has something to do with a helix, which it hasn't, and if it had the Greek would mean `crumpled cows', a concept so fantastic that horns have to be dragged in to help. The erynis that seals the fate of Clytemnestra and Aegisthus is said in eminent editions to `swerve', something obviously very Greek, tragic and mysterious, when in fact the participle `paraklinasa' is transitive and means the erinys that put them to bed together. Often too the manuscripts are hopelessly corrupt, but the editor, in Housman's great phrase, renders Greek nonsense into English nonsense and goes on his way rejoicing. These are the obstacles to rapid progress with ancient Greek, and for me that aspect of the book gives me more difficulty than the more fantastic excesses of the basic plot.<br /><br />There is a male narrator, and it could be that the author is being deliberately ambivalent about which perceptions are his and which hers, but I'm not entirely convinced. Where they are at their sharpest, at Bunny's funeral, I'm sure it's the author I'm hearing, whatever she intended. Even allowing, as I gladly do, that the story is not meant to be `realistic' in a pedestrian sense, I still have a little difficulty with a narration in which two killings, one of them premeditated murder, are only incidents on the level of drunken loutishness or squalid sexual encounters due to the same factor. There is one flash of pity for Bunny's father and one expression of affection for Bunny himself during the obsequies, and that's our lot - the Greek lessons, the drinking, the quarrelling and the issues with money go on much as normal. In particular the thing that precipitates the final crisis, Bunny's posthumous letter, is something I would have expected them to be able to take in their stride given what else they apparently could.<br /><br />Give or take such considerations this is a very readable and involving novel, and it held my attention over all its 600-odd pages. It shows fine accomplishment and even more promise, and I look forward to more from this clever and gifted author. She starts by reflecting on whether the tragic `fatal flaw', Aristotle's `hamartia' that he saw as the basis of Sophoclean tragedy and Bradley of Shakespearean, is a fact of tragedy in real life. Maybe it is, and I'm not sure in the end how her plot illustrates the point. It is a very American novel. I'm sure no British writer would have called the twins Charles and Camilla or given even a female character who insinuates dubious sexual tendencies on the part of the others the surname Poovey, or if there is subtle irony in these names it has been too subtle and ironic for me. A fascinating effort for all that.tragedy in real life. Maybe it is, and I'm not sure in the end how her plot illustrates the point. It is a very American novel. I'm sure no British writer would have called the twins Charles and Camilla or given even a female character who insinuates dubious sexual tendencies on the part of the others the surname Poovey, or if there is subtle irony in these names it has been too subtle and ironic for me. A fascinating effort for all that.	2004-10-15
US	46899882	R2PDGDXZ52WVWQ	0330029967	961544904	The Footsteps of Anne Frank	Books	5	23	24	N	N	'I tell the tale that I heard told'	On a recent visit to Amsterdam I was not able, as things turned out, to revisit the Anne Frank house at 263 Prinsengracht, where she and her family hid from the Gestapo in 1943 and 1944. However it did prompt me to read this touching, dignified and informative piece of research, astonishingly only now receiving its first notice here. Ernst Schnabel had identified a total of 78 people who knew Anne Frank and first published his account of what they told him in 1959. Two of these he did not choose to try to interview, and small wonder. One he believes to have been the man who probably betrayed the Franks to the nazis, the other of whom `was indisputably one of the executioners', which I take to mean one of the guards or other staff at Belsen, where Anne Frank actually died from illness or grief or both. Of the remaining 76 he found only 42. Some had certainly died, very few from natural causes, the others were untraceable. Those interviewed naturally include Otto Frank, Anne's father and the only survivor among the family, and also Miep and Elli and others of their protectors familiar from the play and film The Diary of Anne Frank. Schnabel's purpose is to give their recollections in their own words, touching in some of the gaps in our knowledge of her from her early childhood up to her final incarceration and death. The names of contributors other than those already known are disguised, but documented in the archives of a firm of lawyers.<br /><br />I would not have expected the author of such a book to be able to restrict himself literally to his stated purpose of giving us a portrait of a young girl, especially as the reminiscences are fragmentary in any case. It would not have been possible not to talk about the behaviour of the nazis and their collaborators, or about the conditions at Auschwitz and Belsen. However Schnabel's tone is a model of calm and restraint, his horror and incredulity at how any human beings could behave to other human beings in such a way all the more effective for his rejection of hyperbole and for the complete absence of sentimentality, self-pity or mawkishness. Nor does he allow himself any conventional piety along the lines of purportedly telling his story `so that nothing of the kind can happen again'. This book predates the genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda, Yugoslavia and the Sudan, it is perfectly obvious that those prepared to do that kind of thing will do it anyway however much the rest of us talk about the Holocaust, and I credit him with the clearheadedness to know that. The interest of this short book is not a matter of revisiting scenes already well known, but lies in the fresh information it provides. Those of us accustomed to a dramatised scene of the Franks' arrest featuring blaring car horns, screeching brakes and the thump of a rifle-butt on the door will find a salutary corrective here, for one thing. The occupiers, Schnabel says, were practised and adept at this kind of thing by 1944, and his depiction of the sheer quietness of how it was done is something that is going to stay in my memory. The new contributions are fairly peripheral in one sense, but such a figure as Anne Frank deserves as good a biography as can be assembled, and I for one am grateful to have them.<br /><br />Presumably there is not a lot more of the story to come to light. I would call this book exemplary in the way the author has gone about his task. He has been scrupulous in not prompting his witnesses, I accept absolutely the accuracy of his retelling of their accounts, and I admire his self-restraint in such additional comment as he permits himself. Whether I shall ever now revisit 263 Prinsengracht I very much doubt.y all the more effective for his rejection of hyperbole and for the complete absence of sentimentality, self-pity or mawkishness. Nor does he allow himself any conventional piety along the lines of purportedly telling his story `so that nothing of the kind can happen again'. This book predates the genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda, Yugoslavia and the Sudan, it is perfectly obvious that those prepared to do that kind of thing will do it anyway however much the rest of us talk about the Holocaust, and I credit him with the clearheadedness to know that. The interest of this short book is not a matter of revisiting scenes already well known, but lies in the fresh information it provides. Those of us accustomed to a dramatised scene of the Franks' arrest featuring blaring car horns, screeching brakes and the thump of a rifle-butt on the door will find a salutary corrective here, for one thing. The occupiers, Schnabel says, were practised and adept at this kind of thing by 1944, and his depiction of the sheer quietness of how it was done is something that is going to stay in my memory. The new contributions are fairly peripheral in one sense, but such a figure as Anne Frank deserves as good a biography as can be assembled, and I for one am grateful to have them.  <br /> <br />Presumably there is not a lot more of the story to come to light. I would call this book exemplary in the way the author has gone about his task. He has been scrupulous in not prompting his witnesses, I accept absolutely the accuracy of his retelling of their accounts, and I admire his self-restraint in such additional comment as he permits himself. Whether I shall ever now revisit 263 Prinsengracht I very much doubt.	2004-10-11
US	46899882	R12YIDY3U6RRJ0	630803164X	836874757	Faure:Piano Qits No 1 & 2	Books	5	0	1	N	N	ONWARDS AND UPWARDS	Of the three discs that I now own from Domus, all very good indeed, this one strikes me as the best. The musical personality and idiom of Faure have a particularly strong and involving appeal to me, and I had found in the Domus issue of his piano quartets a sense of empathy and a natural understanding of what Faure's music is about. In the quintets the four regular members of the group are joined by Anthony Marwood as the second violin, and the style of playing happily gave me no surprises. The recorded sound is also of the kind I am getting familiar with, slightly soft-focus and very well calculated to convey this group's special tone-quality. Even here I experienced a faint wish for a little more edge and definition in the pianist's touch, particularly in the second movement of op 115, but this is the way Domus do things and it has so much going for it in terms of sensitivity, insight and sheer musicality that I make no real complaint.<br /><br />These two quintets show the composer at his best and most characteristic. In his really excellent liner-note Francis Pott sums Faure's music up admirably as showing `...an enduring quality of unsensational, restrained honesty: complex and elusive as its creator'. Indeed it is reasonable to say that as a general introduction to Faure this 5-6 page note is about as good as can be found anywhere that I'm aware of. One's all-too-familiar experience of notes whose authors do not have something to say but have to say something is not repeated here. Pott talks about the right things, both in what he says about the composer generally and in his remarks about the two quintets specifically, and his point of view seems to me extremely fair, insightful and well-informed. In particular, the focus is on the music not on the composer's biography except when strictly necessary and relevant. Faure was as `absolute' a musician as Bach, Chopin or Brahms, and the sense of his special creative world, already captured so well in the performances, is enhanced by this lucid, perceptive and sympathetic commentary.<br /><br />The general idiom of the piano quintets is more elegiac and less vigorous than that of the quartets, and to that extent even better suited to the Domus style of playing. For newcomers to Faure, this disc is as good an introduction as I can imagine. For those who know and love the composer already, this is a record to treasure.ances, is enhanced by this lucid, perceptive and sympathetic commentary.  <br /> <br />The general idiom of the piano quintets is more elegiac and less vigorous than that of the quartets, and to that extent even better suited to the Domus style of playing. For newcomers to Faure, this disc is as good an introduction as I can imagine. For those who know and love the composer already, this is a record to treasure.	2004-10-10
US	46899882	R12HCIQYGREJ6J	0719190177	553770028	Rise of Enoch Powell: Examination of Enoch Powell's Attitude to Immigration and Race	Books	5	8	9	N	N	THINK AGAIN ABOUT POWELL!	Or maybe just think at all about him, if you have bought the standard view of him, all based on one rightly notorious speech. If the late Paul Foot's book is still available I recommend it strongly. Obviously Foot starts from a far-left perspective, but actually that is not especially apparent in this interesting piece of analysis, researched with Foot's typical diligence. Foot points out that Powell had been canvassed by those in his own party with racialistic outlooks and had shown no more interest in the issue than he had ever shown in the Red Menace, which he considered nonsense. What made the difference was the 1964 general election. In that poll there was a general swing to Labour, but the west midlands went the other way, and the issue that sent them the other way was ethnic immigration. In particular the shadow foreign secretary Patrick Gordon Walker was defeated at Smethwick. The Conservative defeat in 1964 led to the resignation of Douglas-Home and an election for Tory leader, and Powell, a west midlands MP, saw a chance for himself. He seized on what he perceived as the hot issue and made the 'Tiber foaming with much blood' speech, a new theme for him, taking a dramatic not to say apocalyptic view of immigration from the Commonwealth. Heath expelled him from the shadow cabinet, he left the Tory party and voted Labour, and he reverted, as a very independent Ulster Unionist, to his well-established but less well-reported standpoints. He voted to abolish the death penalty, he voted for liberalisation of the laws on divorce, homosexuality and abortion, and he voted against the Commonwealth immigrants bills introduced by Callaghan and Maudling, describing at least one of them (very plausibly) as 'racialist'.<br /><br />Not exactly your standard 'right-winger' then! In addition to all the above, he had argued as shadow defence secretary for British withdrawal from east of Suez, and he was consistently anti-American and anti-European, an opponent of nuclear weapons in or for Britain, and an advocate of an alliance with 'Russia' (as he always called the Soviet Union) based on his own view of European history. In all these positions he was relatively consistent, or at least owned up to a change of mind in the case of east of Suez. So what are we to make of that speech? Foot's analysis leads me to the view that the temptation to bid for the Tory leadership was just too strong, but Powell was such a monster of self-justification and auto-suggestion that he could not admit to himself that the speech was downright disingenuous.<br /><br />I am no historian, but I guess that by 1979 a right-wing government was a historical necessity. Given the antics of the left at the time we probably got off pretty lightly -- there may have been a danger of outright fascism. Supposing we needed a right-wing prime minister, I still suspect we missed our chance of getting the best one. Powell's economics were standard free-market, like those of Keith Joseph and Joseph's disciple Margaret Thatcher. However as minister of health Powell had put them into practice with flair and imagination, to the advantage of the National Health Service which probably benefited more from him than from the lumpen Labour ministers, claiming of course the mantle of Bevan, who followed him. And we will never now know how the history of the cold war might have been different if Powell had got loose on British foreign and defence policy.r for Britain, and an advocate of an alliance with 'Russia' (as he always called the Soviet Union) based on his own view of European history. In all these positions he was relatively consistent, or at least owned up to a change of mind in the case of east of Suez. So what are we to make of that speech? Foot's analysis leads me to the view that the temptation to bid for the Tory leadership was just too strong, but Powell was such a monster of self-justification and auto-suggestion that he could not admit to himself that the speech was downright disingenuous.    I am no historian, but I guess that by 1979 a right-wing government was a historical necessity. Given the antics of the left at the time we probably got off pretty lightly -- there may have been a danger of outright fascism. Supposing we needed a right-wing prime minister, I still suspect we missed our chance of getting the best one. Powell's economics were standard free-market, like those of Keith Joseph and Joseph's disciple Margaret Thatcher. However as minister of health Powell had put them into practice with flair and imagination, to the advantage of the National Health Service which probably benefited more from him than from the lumpen Labour ministers, claiming of course the mantle of Bevan, who followed him. And we will never now know how the history of the cold war might have been different if Powell had got loose on British foreign and defence policy.	2004-10-08
US	46899882	R2RWBKU2929U4L	0140424296	796416859	Selected Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	XANADU INSPECTED	This edition has a purpose, and one that I subscribe to wholeheartedly. That purpose is `to transform Coleridge's reputation, and find him a new generation of readers'. One hundred and one poems, including thankfully many fragments, are selected. They include, obviously, The Ancient Mariner, Christabel and Kubla Khan, but also sonnets, other ballads, the Asra poems to Sara Hutchinson, nature poems, the late `confessional' poems, political, satirical and humorous poems, and even one prose item The Wanderings of Cain. The editor Richard Holmes is a writer and broadcaster but not apparently an academic, and to my way of thinking the edition is all the better for that. One thing that I looked for but did not find was the brilliant and amusing poem on the city of Cologne, but one can't have everything and I know it by heart anyway.<br /><br />As far as my poets are concerned, I would far sooner be sorry than safe. When I was at school Coleridge took very much of a back seat to Wordsworth, who was obviously a much safer bet. One was given The Ancient Mariner and Kubla Khan for study, and maybe Christabel too if one was lucky, but my impression always was that that was as much Coleridge as the English masters had read. Tennyson once said `I have the greatest command of English since Shakespeare, but to be sure I have nothing to say.' Leaving Milton aside as being a completely special phenomenon whose wonderful language was only just English by some extension of the term, I go along with the first part of that assessment. Between Shakespeare and Tennyson, still leaving Milton out of the frame, who would you say takes the next place for sheer command and virtuosity with the English language? The orthodoxy in my time was Keats, but my own vote goes to Coleridge. Housman himself, the very high priest of Wordsworth, said that the finest versification of the era was to be found `in the irregular and simple-seeming stanzas of The Ancient Mariner'. I don't dispute that, but if The Ancient Mariner has a rival in that respect it is none other than Christabel in my own view. Housman considered the audacious metrical experiment of Christabel to be unsuccessful, but while Housman's ear for language was preternaturally acute, his ear for music was dull, and an ear for music is needed to get the full value from Christabel. We find the lines<br /><br />She kneels beneath the huge oak tree<br />And in silence prayeth she.<br />The lady sprang up suddenly,<br />The lovely lady Christabel!<br />It moaned as near as near can be,<br />But what it is she cannot tell.<br /><br />The crucial line there is `The lovely lady Christabel'. It adds nothing to the sense, it has the function of marking time, measuring out a moment of startled horror, and in general Christabel, incomplete though it is, seems to me as notable an addition to the English language as it is to English literature. It is this experimental and unpredictable element in Coleridge that thrills me with him. Very properly, there are numerous of his fragments here, fascinating testimony to his out-of-the-way mental processes. The poets of that era took their social and historical role pretty seriously - Shelley pronounced poets to be `the unacknowledged legislators of the world', and Coleridge himself considered them to be no less than the elect who would unlock the mystery of the universe. Give or take most of that kind of thing, there is a real visionary element in Coleridge, and not only in the fragments, although I'm not so sure what kind of legislator he might have made.<br /><br />The selections are subdivided into categories, something Coleridge was not too keen on, believing that a plain chronological sequence was the proper reflection of a poet's development. The editor sympathises with this view, but finds it simply not a realistic option, and I agree with him. His preface is very readable, less heavy going than many such, there is a short introductory section to each category of poemsincluded, and there is a further note on each individual poem at the back. I hope this edition succeeds in what it is trying to do.idual poem at the back. I hope this edition succeeds in what it is trying to do.	2004-08-22
US	46899882	R3QK1KVN69RB0T	0140424210	181805185	Troilus and Criseyde (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	THE GO-BETWEEN	There surely can't be many tragic love stories more affecting and involving than this. Nor, it seems to me, can there be many that are more original, despite the conspicuous play the author makes of depending on ancient sources. The tale of Troilus and Cressida (Criseyde) derives ultimately from the Iliad through a multiplicity of mediaeval variations, cited in detail by the editor. It is original in the way Hamlet is original, in its depiction of characters and thought-processes, and it does not suffer from the comparison. There are four protagonists, and two are straightforward, contrasted with a wince-making clarity. Troilus himself, son of King Priam of Troy, is a mighty warrior but tongue-tied and shy when it comes to dealing with women, derisive to begin with at the agonies of those who fall in love and then falling hopelessly, suddenly and finally into the same trap himself. How often have we all seen just that happen within our own acquaintance? Diomede, sent to escort Cressida from Troy to the Greek camp as part of a prisoner-exchange, is uninhibited in that respect to the point of outright crassness, with an eye for an opportunity and an easy `nothing venture nothing gain' attitude that I would again guess most of us will recognise without much difficulty.<br /><br />The other two are anything but simple. Chaucer stays deliberately vague regarding Cressida's relationship with Diomede (characteristically hiding behind his sources - he was anything but straightforward himself), and what if anything remains of her love of Troilus. However it seems to me that there was a calculating bit in her decision to give herself to Troilus in the first place. She could make herself fall in love, and her fascinating speeches with the twists and turns of their thinking say to me that she was no innocent, quite unlike her infatuated wooer. That leaves Pandarus, a creation to rival Iago in a different way. Again, it's left to us to decide what prompted such extraordinary vicarious commitment to bringing the pair together. There may or may not be hints that his motivation was not altruistic, but hints are the most they can be. It is not just a matter of his strange motivation but also of his extraordinary mental agility and speed of reaction. He plots the lovers' tryst in fantastic detail, when the fateful prisoner-exchange is decreed he tries to steer Troilus into a different outlook that in effect abandons the romance he has taken such incredible trouble to arrange, and to the very end he is still trying to manipulate the emotions of the devastated Troilus.<br /><br />It is all told in an easy and relaxed verse, typical Chaucer in being at the same time deadly serious and tongue-in-cheek. This verse is not as 'poetic' as, say, The Ancient Mariner. It stands in much the relationship to that, poetry-wise, as Hamlet does to Macbeth or Othello. This is a psychological drama, not an opportunity to display the special `tone of voice' and `way of saying things' that Housman thought the essence of poetry. Obviously it is in mediaeval English, and this edition uses the authentic original spellings. This will slow most of us down a bit, but that can actually be a good thing. I found that it not only forced me to read with the close attention this drama needs, it kept me fascinated with the wonderful English language itself, and I had to notice how popular speech and even slang have kept alive ancient meanings of words (guess, deal, gear, right, sweetheart) that have been lost in more formal discourse. Where this edition is particularly helpful is in its footnotes reminding us of the meanings of certain words (and reminding us repeatedly, for which I bless the editor) and translating occasional phrases and lines where we might go wrong. I think I only had to refer some half-dozen times to the glossary at the back throughout a poem that is half as long as Paradise Lost.<br /><br />The editor is no less a person than the Professor of English at Cambridge, so his introduction has the thoroughly thorough and also thoroughly stifling profundity that I associate with university literature courses. There are also notes at the back, very helpful in the main but obsessed with quoting parallels for the sake of quoting parallels. At V/1176 there is the line `Ye, fare wel al the snow of ferne year', and I thought immediately of Villon's `Mais ou sont les neiges d'antan?' On turning to the back I found that the editor just quoted this obvious parallel without further comment on what the connection might be, and for a moment I nearly hurled the book across the room. Again I wondered whether the proem to book III might have influenced Milton's great invocation of light at the start of the same book of Paradise Lost, but no light was shed. In general, though, this is a very helpful edition. When reading the Iliad I found that after I had read the first 23 books the 24th was comparatively simple. You may find here that once you have got through the first four books you are quite fluent with the fifth.sh at Cambridge, so his introduction has the thoroughly thorough and also thoroughly stifling profundity that I associate with university literature courses. There are also notes at the back, very helpful in the main but obsessed with quoting parallels for the sake of quoting parallels. At V/1176 there is the line `Ye, fare wel al the snow of ferne year', and I thought immediately of Villon's `Mais ou sont les neiges d'antan?' On turning to the back I found that the editor just quoted this obvious parallel without further comment on what the connection might be, and for a moment I nearly hurled the book across the room. Again I wondered whether the proem to book III might have influenced Milton's great invocation of light at the start of the same book of Paradise Lost, but no light was shed. In general, though, this is a very helpful edition. When reading the Iliad I found that after I had read the first 23 books the 24th was comparatively simple. You may find here that once you have got through the first four books you are quite fluent with the fifth.  <br />	2004-08-19
US	46899882	R2HYZYOSWIEOWF	0811214249	658926733	The Bachelors: Novel (New Directions Classic)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	PUPPET-MISTRESS	The scene is a London courtroom where a spiritualist medium is on trial for defrauding a widow of her life savings. One of the main prosecution witnesses is a handwriting expert who suffers from epilepsy. Under questioning he suffers a seizure and the judge asks `Is this man a medium?' It's very clever, in this instance it's very funny, and it's more than slightly heartless. It is the distinctive individual tone of Muriel Spark.<br /><br />This is one of her best. I found I had to be very alert and attentive or I was liable to miss some new element lightly thrown into the plot without warning. Muriel Spark's touch is as light as thistledown. The characters in The Bachelors are a down-in-the-mouth lot, ranging from nondescript to squalid, but the author typically stays above, or at least outside, their dreary lightless existence. Thinking back over the book, I can't recall anything that I would classify as a single noble thought or piece of lofty motivation. The theme of bachelordom is not really central to the action, more a storyteller's device to help maintain a sense of unity in the narrative. One has to admire the sheer skill with which she keeps control of such a large cast and so many convoluted situations. The characters talk non-stop - virtually all of the book is between quotation-marks - and we have to get to know them, except in two instances, through what they say, not through what they think by themselves. In one of these cases we get a startling insight into what the medium is really pondering and planning, startling because of the way it contrasts with the idiom of the book generally at least as much as because of the nature of his mind. In the other instance a doctor who hardly features at all in the dialogue shines a moment's blinding light through the encircling murk.<br /><br />The many characters are lively and convincing, their individuality beautifully touched in through subtle little touches that you will be liable to miss if your attention falters even for a moment. Despite that they have a feel of human puppets about them, a show put on for us by a clear-headed, clever, elegant and rather cold-hearted puppeteer. It may be that Muriel Spark is herself putting on an act by letting herself appear in such a light. My own feeling is that she is not minded to resolve that question for us - we can view her how we like for all she seems to care. I like her just the way she chooses to be.n falters even for a moment. Despite that they have a feel of human puppets about them, a show put on for us by a clear-headed, clever, elegant and rather cold-hearted puppeteer. It may be that Muriel Spark is herself putting on an act by letting herself appear in such a light. My own feeling is that she is not minded to resolve that question for us - we can view her how we like for all she seems to care. I like her just the way she chooses to be.	2004-08-06
US	46899882	R2KDOGH5J6F45G	0140232702	489977036	Dunster	Books	5	4	6	N	N	SIGNING OFF THE ACCOUNTS	John Mortimer is a lawyer, and he writes this story in the persona of an accountant. For newcomers to his work that may sound unpromising; those who know him of old will know to expect better. As always, he is very entertaining and readable. As always, his mind is sharp and his eye for people and situations is ironic. He is not precisely a witty writer in the sense of turning out memorable sayings or sentences, although his style is polished and professional and his touch is light. Mortimer's humour comes from his detached and amused attitude, very sympathetic up to a point but more than a little superior, humane and involved certainly but distinctly above it all too. He is the product of a privileged upbringing and has a very obvious taste for the `better' things in life, but his inclinations are leftish, with the derisive view of conservative thinking that is not uncommon among his particular school of English intellectuals.<br /><br />This is a very English book by a very English writer. It dates from 1992, by which time he already had a major corpus of novels and plays behind him, notably of course the celebrated Rumpole series about the un-stellar humdrum lawyer memorably played in a television series by Leo McKern. His fascination with English legal processes has never left him, and obviously he writes about them with an insider's knowledge. Lawsuits and trials are a very reliable form of drama and entertainment, and I found that my own sense of expectancy and interest rose when we get to that part in the latter stages of the story. It's an easy hit in a way, but when handled by a gifted professional the formula never fails. There is certainly an element of suspense as we wait to hear the verdict, but the real touch of Mortimer is in his portrayal of the bullying and bloody-minded judge with his little-concealed bias towards the great and the good followed by his completely fair and balanced summing-up, fair and balanced not because the judge is either of those things still less because English justice is some shining lawcourt on a hill, but simply because the judge has his eye on the Appeal Court.<br /><br />The dull man's final quiet triumph over the flash man is typical Mortimer as well - it comes about through luck and it could easily have gone the other way. There might be a moral in it, but equally there might not. I'm quite sure the author wants to leave us guessing about that. He is quite clearly on the side of the dull man, but it is very questionable whether the outcome represents any kind of justice. All very readable, and with a convincing feel about it in the way the English behave, especially to each other, and an amusing and realistic depiction of life at Oxford in the early chapters. Mortimer is not a heavyweight in the sense that Waugh is that, but I personally like him a lot better. 5 stars? Why not?hose things still less because English justice is some shining lawcourt on a hill, but simply because the judge has his eye on the Appeal Court.  <br /> <br />The dull man's final quiet triumph over the flash man is typical Mortimer as well - it comes about through luck and it could easily have gone the other way. There might be a moral in it, but equally there might not. I'm quite sure the author wants to leave us guessing about that. He is quite clearly on the side of the dull man, but it is very questionable whether the outcome represents any kind of justice. All very readable, and with a convincing feel about it in the way the English behave, especially to each other, and an amusing and realistic depiction of life at Oxford in the early chapters. Mortimer is not a heavyweight in the sense that Waugh is that, but I personally like him a lot better. 5 stars? Why not?	2004-08-05
US	46899882	RTGBVVVBC2T1D	0393023605	538223956	Falling Towards England (Unreliable Memoirs Continued)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A CLEVER BOY	Clive James should be 65 by now, if the arithmetic of the years works in the same way for him as for me. This volume of his memoirs, the second, was issued in 1985, but presumably it calls on diaries kept in his 20's, the period the book covers, so one can't really gauge how it reflects his maturation.<br />His greatest strength and his main weakness are one and the same thing. He produces some brilliant one-liners, but so many of them, and so similar in style, that they become just a little wearisome over the length of even a shortish book. I became familiar with him first as the BBC film pundit and then as the television critic of The Observer on Sundays. Within the scale of a half-hour programme or a Sunday review he was absolutely unsurpassable for wit and originality. He did various other tv programmes over the years, and I remember in particular a series on a tour he had made in eastern Europe, at the time still the Evil Empire of fond memory. There was a clip of a rock band consisting of various balding 40ish gents in dull suits, on which James commented in his flat Australian accent `They don't just look like secret policemen, they sing like secret policemen'. Does that have you rolling in the aisles? It did me. It still does, and this book rarely goes two pages in succession without something of the kind. As a writer of English he is a consummate workman on his own terms. The tone is studiously light and informal, but the expression is never careless or cheap. Indeed his other fault as a stylist is a kind of demotic pretentiousness. The relaxed and plain-Joe paragraphs are liberally larded with obscure literary and cultural allusions, and it would serve him right if some readers find this patronising. What do you make of a chapter-heading `Solvitur acris James', for instance? I happen to recognise the reference to the ode of Horace starting `Solvitur acris hiems' (Sharp winter melts) but not only will it totally escape many, perhaps most, it doesn't have all that much point anyway in its context.<br />The period narrated is from his arrival in England in 1962 until just before he went up to Cambridge. As a document of an impoverished, chaotic, Hogarthian gin-lane existence it is simply brilliant. It would be hard to describe the feel of his account as precisely introspective - Rabelaisian might be nearer the mark. In saying that, I begin to suspect that James's manner is beginning to infect me too - the style of Rabelais is nothing like what you might expect from its English dictionary definition or the common usage of the word insofar as it has a common usage. Towards the end I thought I detected a distinctly deeper tone. I wonder what he could really do if he really tried.ll that much point anyway in its context. <br />The period narrated is from his arrival in England in 1962 until just before he went up to Cambridge. As a document of an impoverished, chaotic, Hogarthian gin-lane existence it is simply brilliant. It would be hard to describe the feel of his account as precisely introspective - Rabelaisian might be nearer the mark. In saying that, I begin to suspect that James's manner is beginning to infect me too - the style of Rabelais is nothing like what you might expect from its English dictionary definition or the common usage of the word insofar as it has a common usage. Towards the end I thought I detected a distinctly deeper tone. I wonder what he could really do if he really tried.	2004-07-15
US	46899882	R60GZFV5NLNH8	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A GAME OF MAKE-BELIEVE	The shape of the narrative in this highly entertaining and readable novel is basically determined by a pair of Japanese insurance adjusters. These gentlemen do not believe the narrator's account of how he survived after his ship sank, so to get rid of them he tells another, totally different and much more prosaic, version. It seems to me that a very good joke is being played on anyone who worries about which is the `true' narrative. This is fiction for goodness sake - none of it ever happened.<br />The main account is remarkable for being made to sound as convincing as the author manages to do. Purely as a story, it is perhaps a little more likely than The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, and I was very conscious, in a thoroughly enjoyable way, of being manipulated and played with by the author. I know a certain amount about animal behaviour just through being interested in the subject. However my knowledge is strictly that of a dilettante and amateur, and the author's grasp of the matter is either greater than mine (which I can easily believe) or he is able to pass it off as greater than it is to someone possessed of my level of knowledge. In terms of credibility, the origin of the tiger's name is perfectly believable but if a reader can accept how the narrator came to be named as he was then that reader ought to be able to swallow more or less anything that follows. It is all just a tale - a very clever, original and absorbing tale - as far as I can discern, not an allegory like Gulliver's Travels nor carrying a moral like the Ancient Mariner.<br />The other main thread is the narrator's interest in religions - plural. He is something more than ecumenical in his tastes, and he values the world's various faiths for the level of edification they bring him. He seems not to be interested in what factual truth, if any, there may be in their legends and doctrines, but I was heartened, as well as being slightly taken aback, by his placid assertion of what has long seemed obvious to me, namely that atheism is a more honest and reputable viewpoint than agnosticism. When I was inclined at times to wonder what the connexion might be between the religious thread and the principal narrative, it seemed to me that it was perhaps to be sought in an imaginative disregard for anything so prosaic as fact.<br />All thoroughly enjoyable and recommendable so far as I'm concerned. If you have not so far read the book, my recommendation is not to take the slightest notice of anything you may have seen about the relative truth of the two alternative stories. The truth is neither here nor there.bvious to me, namely that atheism is a more honest and reputable viewpoint than agnosticism. When I was inclined at times to wonder what the connexion might be between the religious thread and the principal narrative, it seemed to me that it was perhaps to be sought in an imaginative disregard for anything so prosaic as fact. <br />All thoroughly enjoyable and recommendable so far as I'm concerned. If you have not so far read the book, my recommendation is not to take the slightest notice of anything you may have seen about the relative truth of the two alternative stories. The truth is neither here nor there.	2004-06-23
US	46899882	R2YKV1XC3KUHLL	0214204812	980408897	Augusta the Great	Books	5	1	1	N	N	TEE-HEE!	The Augusta comic strip in the Evening Standard was originally called Clive when it started back in the late 60's. Clive was Augusta's elder brother of A-level age, and Augusta would be, I guess, 4 (not yet at school). I followed the series faithfully until I left London in 1975 and I don't know how long it continued but it has been a real treat to find these back numbers and I would like to collect all of them. The wit is very smarty-smarty, rather twee and more than a little camp, but it's very funny and, better still, very good-humoured. This collection does not have some of my favourites that I remember best like Aunt Philodendron or the prolific painter of fine Mona Lisas Mrs Thelma M Basin, so that is a treat still in store when I can get hold of the rest of the series. For devotees, obviously, but if you missed the series entirely you might enjoy it.	2004-05-29
US	46899882	R2I12RD8TVSTH8	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	5	1	1	N	N	SUBLIME	It will now be hard to film Childhood's End because the opening, with the great ships suspended over the cities of the earth, was cribbed, intentionally or by coincidence, for Independence Day. That's a pity because it would make a tremendous film being a shattering and most skilfully written story. Here the visitors have not come to despoil our planet, indeed so well put together is the plot that we may well forget to ask ourselves why they have bothered to come along and preside over a golden age of universal peace, prosperity and others of Clarke's (and my) liberal preoccupations such as no cruelty to animals. The book is not 200 pages long but it combines Clarke's special narrative gifts as a short-story writer with a vision of the whole nature and purpose of the universe that I find staggering and intolerably poignant to this day, 30 years after I first read it.<br />Brian Aldiss has perceptively said that if Stapledon has a successor it is Clarke, and Clarke himself has told us how deeply Stapledon has influenced him. However this book resembles Stapledon in nothing except the scale of the concept. Childhood's End is written by a recognisable human being with power over our emotions -- power indeed! When the overlord first shows himself, I wondered whether the story could ever recover from such a dramatic coup so early on. I need not have worried. The story has not even begun: the truth, when we finally get it not far from the end, wrenches my innards to this day, and between times the crux of the narrative (the seance) is as brilliant a false clue as was ever laid by Agatha Christie. Those of us who have been cursed or maybe blessed with a compulsion to worry about our world and our fate, and who cannot find any clue to it in bibles and such like, are bound to react emotionally to an effort like this. It is not 'tragic' in Aristotle's sense, but for a 'purging of pity and terror' I'm not sure I know anything like it.	2004-05-22
US	46899882	R3PGG94JVUHQIT	0193113066	314920379	The Oxford Companion to Music	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A++ FOR EFFORT	The extraordinary thing about this book is that its first edition was the work almost entirely of one man, Dr Percy A Scholes. He had a certain amount of clerical and secretarial help from his wife and others, but this is no kind of boiled-down version of Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians. To produce a one-volume compendium of music called for a single individual with a compendious enough knowledge of the matter, and Scholes was such an individual. I cannot suppose that the legendary lexicon of classical Greek was to any comparable extent the work solely of Mr Liddell and Mr Scott, who presumably had an army of hoplites, helots and slaves to do their donkey-work. Yet music is a far bigger topic than classical Greek, or indeed than any language that I know or even can imagine.<br />It's in the nature of the case that any work of this type is partly out of date before it has got past the printers. A modest list of new entries is given at the start, and obviously some articles have been updated. Equally obviously, some others have not. At the time of the first edition in 1938 it was certainly true to say, as is said here, that knowledge of Handel was not advancing and possibly even declining. The revival of interest in his work was under way, but only just, at the time of Scholes's death 20 years later, but by the time of the tenth edition the transformation in that situation was well advanced, and one might have expected a drastic rewrite of that particular article. In other cases unexpected developments in our musical culture have caught the editors unawares. There has been, for instance, a remarkable increase in the recording of out of the way composers. The tenth edition has no entry at all for the 11th century abbess Hildegard of Bingen, no more than a one-line entry with cross-reference for Krumpholtz (contemporary with Mozart and specialising in music for the harp), but is rather better on William Kinloch, a composer of genuine stature I should say, who benefits from being included in an informative item on Scottish music.  I own records of the work of all three, and got no help on two them from the Oxford Companion. One main purpose of a compendium like this is to provide easy access to basic data on such subjects, and if the revisers don't keep au fait with what is going on the volume will gradually become obsolete. That would be a matter of regret if so, because some of the more technical articles, notably as far as I am concerned the piece on temperament (aka tuning) and I am sure also the corresponding piece on tonic-sol-fa if I could have overcome my reluctance to wade through that tedious topic, are absolutely excellent. I got a sharp reminder of how quickly the situation can change when my eye lighted on an entry for `Glastonbury'. As I had expected, the cross-reference was to something totally unconnected with the great annual pop festival there. Whether the very latest update to the Companion has struggled to draw abreast of that I don't know, but if it has it will only be in time to be out of date again, as there's going to be Wagner as well as Will Young and the rest of them at Glastonbury this year.<br />Where the book also risks obsolescence is in some of the attitudes involved. Four major composers that I know of - Schubert, Schumann, Wolf and Delius - died through syphilis either directly or in a major contributory way. The subject is delicately avoided, and indeed in the case of Schumann the article reads as if the author didn't even know. Again, I'm not sure how well up he was in the final chapter of Tchaikovsky's life. For everyone's benefit, what really happened was that Tchaikovsky had been given an ultimatum by his former academy associates either to top himself or they were going to out him to the Tsar for his homosexuality. To treat this kind of thing as unmentionable in this day and age is just going to bring ridicule on a work that deserves better.<br />As I see it, the natural public forthis book consists of comparatively well-informed amateurs, such as myself. What I find in it is some really excellent background material on a very good range of topics, and I'm all the way with Scholes in seeing the single-volume format as a basic requirement. It's not the job of a work like this to say the last word on anything in particular, although for all I know it may in many cases do just that. Keeping it up to date is important too, but I still recommend prospective purchasers to buy at bargain prices whether or not they are buying the very latest edition - it's not likely to make a great deal of difference. In many respects books are still a lot more convenient than the web is, not to say a lot more personal, and long may it be so.this book consists of comparatively well-informed amateurs, such as myself. What I find in it is some really excellent background material on a very good range of topics, and I'm all the way with Scholes in seeing the single-volume format as a basic requirement. It's not the job of a work like this to say the last word on anything in particular, although for all I know it may in many cases do just that. Keeping it up to date is important too, but I still recommend prospective purchasers to buy at bargain prices whether or not they are buying the very latest edition - it's not likely to make a great deal of difference. In many respects books are still a lot more convenient than the web is, not to say a lot more personal, and long may it be so.	2004-05-06
US	46899882	R1MS2JBTP8ZWEM	0571163521	637814424	The Faber Book of Science	Books	4	3	9	N	N	INTRODUCTIONS	This book is edited (with introduction) by John Carey, and that ought to trigger a few responses in people who have been around. Professor Carey is an all-purpose media intellectual, much in demand for elevated discussions of more or less anything. He was formerly Professor of English at Oxford, and here he is guiding us around `science'. I recall the answer of John W Campbell Jr when asked what was the place of science fiction in English literature. Campbell responded that science fiction is a genre taking in everything from the primal egg to the heat-death of the universe, so to try to place it within English literature is a bit of an odd question.<br /><br />Carey clearly views this anthology as `literature' rather than as some kind of reference book. On the one hand he gave thought to the sequencing of the selections, and I may say I read the volume from cover to cover as sequenced. On the other hand one of his main criteria for inclusion is that the pieces that qualify should be well enough written for him to want to read them twice. This is where I start to have problems with his approach. Given the significance of most of the subject-matter, my own reason for wanting to read any given piece twice would be that I had not understood it the first time. I am only too grateful for the quality of readability, but when confronted with relativity or quantum theory or black holes or seismology or nuclear fusion or fractals or genetics I can only find a preoccupation with literary aspects to be the most despicable footling. That said, the literary quality is pretty good, as of course one would expect. This is obviously a book for amateurs not for professionals, and speaking as an amateur I felt helped to retain my fumbling but determined grasp on, say, particle physics as well as getting a genuinely better perception of, say, chaos theory and natural selection. Readers inclined to a religious outlook will probably not find much to bolster it here, and whether that represents some bias on the part of the editor or whether it is simply in the nature of the case I am unable to judge.<br /><br />It's a clever production by a very clever editor, but I'm still suspicious of him because of his background. I have never really been convinced that reading books in one's own mother tongue amounts to a respectable academic subject. So far as I could tell, the way they got around this perception at Oxford was to make the subject artificially difficult, demanding a ludicrous amount of reading and assessing the products of their grisly ergastulum on their capacity to make clever-clever observations provided these stayed within the party line adopted by a fearsome and condescending thought-police. That anyone who had gone through this particular mill retained any literary sensibility whatsoever seems to me as good an argument for a benevolent deity as I have encountered. Professor Carey is clearly alive to this problem, but after my own struggles with establishing Greek and Latin texts, or with the subtleties of vowel-gradation in the Indo-European languages, I don't like being lumped in with his lot as an `arts' graduate, standing in the same relationship to the larger sciences as they do. There are sciences and sciences. The one I studied was a minor one, the contemplation of the structure of the cosmos is ultimately what it's all about. How good a grasp of it I shall ever get I don't know, but this book has not hindered that purpose for all the `literary' fooling that goes with it.<br /><br />I see that Professor Carey has written a book called `The Intellectuals and the Masses'. I don't have the courage to read it, but I think I might have been able to invent the title if I had not been told of it. I wish him a long and productive life. It may be that we shall yet see some Faber Book of Introductions, edited (with introduction) by John Carey.ome bias on the part of the editor or whether it is simply in the nature of the case I am unable to judge.     It's a clever production by a very clever editor, but I'm still suspicious of him because of his background. I have never really been convinced that reading books in one's own mother tongue amounts to a respectable academic subject. So far as I could tell, the way they got around this perception at Oxford was to make the subject artificially difficult, demanding a ludicrous amount of reading and assessing the products of their grisly ergastulum on their capacity to make clever-clever observations provided these stayed within the party line adopted by a fearsome and condescending thought-police. That anyone who had gone through this particular mill retained any literary sensibility whatsoever seems to me as good an argument for a benevolent deity as I have encountered. Professor Carey is clearly alive to this problem, but after my own struggles with establishing Greek and Latin texts, or with the subtleties of vowel-gradation in the Indo-European languages, I don't like being lumped in with his lot as an `arts' graduate, standing in the same relationship to the larger sciences as they do. There are sciences and sciences. The one I studied was a minor one, the contemplation of the structure of the cosmos is ultimately what it's all about. How good a grasp of it I shall ever get I don't know, but this book has not hindered that purpose for all the `literary' fooling that goes with it.    I see that Professor Carey has written a book called `The Intellectuals and the Masses'. I don't have the courage to read it, but I think I might have been able to invent the title if I had not been told of it. I wish him a long and productive life. It may be that we shall yet see some Faber Book of Introductions, edited (with introduction) by John Carey.	2004-04-29
US	46899882	R1J370ZS28A9QY	186105078X	139272997	Man Behind the Smile: Tony Blair and the Politics of Perversion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	CONSENSUS BY DIKTAT AND THE POLITICS OF PERVERSION	These are the author's own phrases characterising Blair's premiership, so first a word about who he is. Leo Abse, now in his late 80's, is a retired Labour member of parliament from the mining community of South Wales. He is the author of a similar study of Margaret Thatcher, but what I had mainly remembered about him was the story of a meeting he addressed in his own locality at which the chairman referred to him as `Mr Abs'. His surname has two syllables, so he murmured in the man's ear `Call me Abs-ey', to which the chairman replied `That's very nice of you, call me Jonesy'.<br />He has a fine sense of humour himself, and some of the cattier sideswipes at various figures in this book are very entertaining. This is a study from a psychoanalytic viewpoint, and it takes in not just The People's Tony himself but his wife, the Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown, the fearsome former Downing Street media supremo Alistair Campbell, Blair's political Svengali Peter Mandelson and certain others. The book originally appeared in 1996 before Blair came to power under the title Tony Blair: the Man Behind the Smile, with updated editions in 2001 and 2003. The problem for me with a psychoanalytic account is that I do not have enough knowledge of the technique to form an independent judgment of my own. Abse's approach is distinctly partisan and hostile, as his phrases that I have used in my caption to this review make very clear. It is all easy enough to understand, it is coherent, systematic and seemingly well-researched (sources are listed at the back) but there is no question that this is a full-scale frontal attack on Blair as a politician. An analysis using this technique belittles its subject, as this book is manifestly intended to do, and ordinary detachment and fairness suggests that there must be at least some temptation, for someone fluent in the terminology, to use it to promote a point of view rather than carry out a genuinely objective enquiry.<br />Abse is `old Labour' as he says himself, and he draws his inspiration from the post-war Labour government whose socialising approach he believed Blair could have emulated. Among more recent Labour figures he singles out the late leader John Smith. I had the honour of knowing John personally long before Abse did, and all I can say is that if he really was the conflict-unaverse full-blooded socialist that Abse depicts he must have changed a good deal since I used to know him. Whether Abse is precisely `left-wing' is questionable, and he is manifestly unimpressed by certain recidivist trade union leaders of the kind who made the trade union movement as deeply disliked as it became in the 1960's and 1970's. He is basically a fair-minded and decent-minded socialist who believes that Blair and his motley outfit of modernisers have, in his own words, stolen the soul of his party. He recognises explicitly that the kind of social legislation he aspires to is not going to be achieved without conflict. However as he sees fit to characterise Gordon Brown as being willing to face up to anyone except himself (Brown, that is), I suppose I can legitimately question whether Abse in his turn is really facing up to the sort of obstacles his own preferred policies confront in this day and age. This is a book review, not any kind of political statement of my own. What I would have wanted from Abse is his own honest answer to the question `Given that Britain is a member of the European Union, and given even more the extent to which governments are in the hands of international capital, do you think you will achieve anything except disaster by taking on hopeless odds?' If the political will is there, anything might indeed be possible. Can he honestly claim to detect it at this stage of the world's history?<br />There are real touches of brilliance in this book and it is in the main well-written, so much so that I shall ask - can there really be such a word as `aggressivity'? There wouldn't be if I had anything to do with it. There is categorically no such word as `wreaked', the word is `wrought'; it is a solecism to use `proportions' to mean dimensions; and does he mean `atactic' or `ataxic'? I enjoyed the book thoroughly. The sincere sense of disappointment that comes through it is shared from various political standpoints, not least from the prevalent view that we have no visible alternative government.had anything to do with it. There is categorically no such word as `wreaked', the word is `wrought'; it is a solecism to use `proportions' to mean dimensions; and does he mean `atactic' or `ataxic'? I enjoyed the book thoroughly. The sincere sense of disappointment that comes through it is shared from various political standpoints, not least from the prevalent view that we have no visible alternative government.	2004-03-26
US	46899882	R21RCCY3BT2I8Q	9998603048	785634089	Handel, His Personality and His Time	Books	4	0	0	N	N	FLORILEGIUM	When a major work of historical biography is more than three-quarters of a century old it starts to become history itself. Sir Newman Flower's great biography of Handel was first published in 1923, with a revised second edition issued in 1959. In fact a lot has happened in terms of the general outlook on Handel in that 80 years, 65 of which, or near, I have lived through. Even in the 1950's it was still very difficult to hear much by Handel except Messiah, the Water Music and Fireworks Music and a few concertos. Critical opinion was still dominated by Tovey who was much more in his element with Bach, and we were still in the backwash of a fatuous supposed controversy regarding alleged borrowings by Handel of five notes here and three notes there by other composers, a controversy especially prevalent among commentators who quite certainly had never heard most of the music they were talking about. However things were already stirring. Not only was a more historical approach starting to be taken towards music of the early 18th century in general, it could not go on for ever that so little by one of the greatest of all composers was being heard outside of specialist groups.<br /><br />Flower's biography came into being at the depth of the dark age regarding his subject, and by the second edition in the composer's bicentennial year of 1959 Flower notes the start of his renaissance. In no sense is this volume a review of Handel's music. Its interest, for me anyway, is as a historical document in its own right. At a time when his hero was little known Flower had taken such-and-such a view of him: now our musical acquaintance of him has improved out of recognition, how does Flower's picture stand up?<br /><br />For me, the answer is `not particularly well'. I must put this view in a proper context - Flower is a scholar and expert and I am neither. What I am is a strong enthusiast for Handel's music who has picked up along the way a ragbag of stories, reminiscences, anecdotes and vignettes of various kinds concerning him. I did not read the book in a critical frame of mind but in one of curiosity. I was not looking for errors of fact, although I thought that Domenico Scarlatti was born, like Handel, in 1685 and not a couple of years earlier. Nor would I have been likely to spot significant omissions, but I could only be startled to find no reference whatsoever to the Mizler society of composers to which Handel belonged in the company of Telemann and J S Bach himself - there was more going on in Handel's life than royalty and impresarios, and more going in his musical life than rival sopranos or Bononcini could ever account for. My slight difficulty with Flower's approach is that he brings a predetermined image to his depiction of his subject. For him Handel is a heroic figure. He is that for me as well, but a different kind of heroic figure. That he went through some rough patches I knew, but I miss from Flower the ironic, sometimes even self-deprecating, wit that comes through from some of the anecdotes. There is certainly very little evidence of romantic or sexual interest in Handel's life, but I really wonder whether he was tied to his art like Ixion to his wheel in quite the way Flower makes out; and I certainly give more credence to his gourmand proclivities than Flower seems inclined to. Above all I am sure I detect real affection in some of the snippets of reports taking a rise out of his thick German accent, where there is a strangely remote aspect to the figure drawn by Flower.<br /><br />To me Handel was a genuinely great man, not just a great musician and composer. The greatness of the figure that comes across to me is in his ability to confront, with humour and a certain real detachment, his misfortunes while not being corrupted or in any way lessened by his triumphs. With the possible and only partial exception of Verdi, he is for me the most appealing figure among the musical olympians. Flower's book has been a journey back, expertly guided, to an age not that long ago that knew very little about him but talked beyond what it knew. If I suspect that this has somewhat skewed Flower's own viewpoint, that is a small matter compared with the scholarly and detailed picture that I have derived from a book that all Handelians should still get to know.an age not that long ago that knew very little about him but talked beyond what it knew. If I suspect that this has somewhat skewed Flower's own viewpoint, that is a small matter compared with the scholarly and detailed picture that I have derived from a book that all Handelians should still get to know.	2004-02-20
US	46899882	R1CBW39WMJH6PS	031322160X	207528546	Mycenaeans and Minoans: Aegean Prehistory in the Light of the Linear B Tablets	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A POOR THING BUT MINOAN	Joking aside, this is an absolutely wonderful book. How many people it will appeal to I have no idea. On the one hand it is not going to rival Tolkien or J K Rowling for sales. On the other hand as scholarly revolutions, and scholarly controversies, go it is one of the famous ones, and one that in its time made banner newspaper headlines.<br />This is the second edition of a book that had to be extensively rewritten because the evidence was pouring in even as the author wrote the work. Palmer had been very quick to support the decipherment, by a young amateur Michael Ventris, of the Linear B tablets found both on the Greek mainland and at the Palace of Minos at Cnossos on Crete, famously excavated by Sir Arthur Evans, as being in the Greek language. This had a radical impact on the history (or prehistory) of the Bronze Age in Greece, because if these tablets are Greek it is patently impossible to suppose that the Greek invasion of Crete took place at some later date. As recast, the book now takes us through the decipherment process, the identification and location of the Mycenaean fortress of Pylos on the south-west Peloponnese, the early history of Crete and finally the origin of the Greeks themselves and a theory of the nature of the Linear A tablets, which Palmer believes to be in the Anatolian Indo-European language Luvian. This was, at least, the position in 1965. I have been out of touch with the issue since then, but whatever refinements have been made in subsequent scholarship, this book surely represents a watershed second only to the work of Ventris himself.<br />It is a book for scholars (some of whom clearly need it badly) but also for a certain type of lay reader. Palmer concedes that the book is to some extent demanding, but I would ascribe that more to the amount of detail than to anything else, and the detail is largely a matter of a plethora of place-names which can be followed from the maps. There is also a great deal of detail regarding the interpretation of the archaeological evidence. This should in fact be intelligible and enjoyable to anyone who enjoys following a good advocate's reasoning - Palmer himself uses the analogy of his readers as a jury at several points. Greek words and names are given in Roman script, and in general Palmer's vast learning is carried lightly and presented with skill and tact. As I remember him from real life, his mind is a little bit quick for mine and I sometimes had to scramble to keep abreast of the steps of his reasoning, but in general he is clear enough. He is careful not to burden the reader with excessive philological detail in particular, but I suspect a footnote about `labio-velars' would actually have helped readers puzzled about how i-qo becomes `hippos' the Greek for a horse, and it would not have hurt to let out that the syllable shared by the words for `and' and `four' is `te'.<br />What made the book famous of course, is that in some places it flatly contradicts Evans based on the evidence of Evans himself and his collaborator Mackenzie. This is what produced the newspaper features claiming that Palmer had debunked Evans. In fact one should expect that, although Palmer, as if butter would not melt in his mouth, claims innocently that in fact Evans made two compensating errors and thus arrived not far off the truth. What it also produced was some scholarship of the worst kind in some quarters. Challenges to Ventris's decipherment had already been mounted, which is perfectly fair to that extent but which should not have descended to attacks on his integrity without very good evidence indeed. Palmer himself came under some knee-jerk straight-into-denial attack from a colleague at Oxford, the posthumous apostle of Evans. I never saw a better in-fighter than Palmer. He is afraid of nobody and nobody upsets him. The calm serious academic manner never deserts him and he is all the more effective for it.<br />I wonder where it has all gone since 1965, but I'll be surprised if this book is not still the major monument along the road. In this highly favourable assessment you will of course bear in mind that my teacher was, well, Palmer.surprised if this book is not still the major monument along the road. In this highly favourable assessment you will of course bear in mind that my teacher was, well, Palmer.	2004-02-14
US	46899882	R3O6BXHOT7ZQ5E	0750917164	10780395	1066 and All That: A memorable history of England	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A GOOD THING	In 40 years of visiting the United States and hosting return visits I have only managed to get a vague idea about what English humour appeals to Americans. I am in no doubt that this is a great book, but it is as English as the Ascot, and the humour is very Oxbridge undergraduate humour. If my memory serves me, the authors graduated from Oxford with the accolade of a third-class honours, maybe less, in modern history apiece (`modern' being defined as not ancient Greek and Roman). You do not need much knowledge of British history to enjoy it, a Walt Disney or Saxons-and-sandals overview will be enough.<br />What you may get out of it is completely unpredictable, at least by me. I am still reduced to helpless laughter by the humour in the book that is downright infantile, like the exam questions - `Fill in at least two of the following: 1 (blank) 2 (blank) 3 Simon de Montfort. Do not write on more than two sides of the paper' - that sort of thing. The confusions between names are not much more adult and nearly as funny, like the story of how King Arthur burnt the cakes as told by Arthur Lord Tennyson, or Florence Nightingale gradually transmogrified into Flora McNightingown the Lady With the Deadly Lampshade. I still get a kick out of the Anglo-Saxon kings such as the Wave of Egg-kings (Eggfilth etc) and others such as Thruthelthrolth. Maybe the funniest joke in the book is about the king who perished by his own hand on learning that his sons were revolting.<br />That is a little nosegay of my own favourites jotted down completely at random. If they don't appeal to you, that could just be because of the way I tell them, or it could be that this is not your own idea of funny. For me this little book is a true classic, a book that wears well down the years and decades, much as Lear's limericks do. I should maybe say that I myself am not English although I am Oxbridge. On the other hand I first read the book, and first found it hilarious, when I was only a child. Its great precept is that history is what you can remember. Listening to points of view as I hear them expressed with the modern advantage of instant communications I have to conclude that selective recollection for many people starts right away and does not have to wait for anything to become `history'.reat precept is that history is what you can remember. Listening to points of view as I hear them expressed with the modern advantage of instant communications I have to conclude that selective recollection for many people starts right away and does not have to wait for anything to become `history'.	2004-02-04
US	46899882	RIHVKDLN2AXG0	071810935X	355610992	The Alcoholic Cook Book	Books	3	3	4	N	N	NOTE THE TITLE	It is The Alcoholic, not Alcoholic's or Alcoholics', Cookbook. It caters basically to the pseudo-sophisticated, especially when they have neither the time nor the inclination for making elaborate dishes or anything that requires long preparation. If you can still find a copy at a reasonable price, it has definite value in containing a handy set of dishes which are a little bit `different', never particularly difficult so far as I noticed, and not in general unduly expensive. Any fool can cook if money is no object. I myself am far from being any great cook, but I am not a bad one either, and I object to extravagance for its own sake in cooking not least because it tends to take the skill and the enjoyment out of it.<br />In general the philosophy of the book is to give interest to dishes through booze rather than through any particular level of skill or effort, and up to a point that seems to me perfectly fair and reasonable, provided the outcome is genuinely interesting, which is not guaranteed. I have just used it for Bloody Mary soup, an excellent cheerful hot starter to Christmas dinner on a cold and dank Christmas day in the Pennines. Even with something so simple, a cook with a few ideas of his or her own will not follow the recipe slavishly, and the magic ingredient with this dish, as with tomato sauces in general, is to squeeze some fresh lime through it. Sometimes where I disagree with the recipe it is not a matter of the alcoholic content at all. This recipe for beef stroganoff starts, as often, by asking for top-quality frying steak. In my opinion you will get a far better result at half the price from lean shoeleather steak cooked until tender. I also noticed several recipes containing gelatine, and even before the BSE scare that is something I have never used nor ever would. I looked up the index in Nico Ladenis's My Gastronomy, and the word is not even there, nor would I have expected a top-rate chef to touch the stuff with a pair of tongs. That book contains some great alcoholic recipes, such as his chicken in vin jaune with morels. The ingredients for that will take time and trouble to find, and the preparation will take time and a good deal of care and attention. The Alcoholic Cookbook is not about any of that. Its real usefulness is in providing a convenient set of moderately interesting and unusual recipes that are not likely to go wrong.ontains some great alcoholic recipes, such as his chicken in vin jaune with morels. The ingredients for that will take time and trouble to find, and the preparation will take time and a good deal of care and attention. The Alcoholic Cookbook is not about any of that. Its real usefulness is in providing a convenient set of moderately interesting and unusual recipes that are not likely to go wrong.	2003-12-31
US	46899882	R31F4JXUZF1EN2	0151370400	442490232	The Green Man	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A GREEN MAN AND PINK ELEPHANTS	Some of the best and most entertaining fiction by Kingsley Amis is comparatively little known, and I am pleased to see The Green Man available here and there. It has his usual virtues of offbeat humour, a gift for atmosphere, an engaging show of fogeyishness and some really memorable writing; and it has his occasional traits of implausibility, lapses of concentration and discursiveness, which I sometimes find irritating and sometimes entertaining depending on what mood I am in.<br />This is a distinctly original ghost story. Whether or not Amis found the basic inspiration for his green man in legends, or in The Golden Bough, or in other fiction I have no idea. I can't think of a similar creature in similar literature that I have come across, perhaps simply because there is no similar literature. The thread of the preternatural does not dominate the narrative, which is largely concerned with the interactions between the narrator and his family and acquaintances. The story is told by an alcoholic publican, remarkably lucid and vigorous for the most part, and opinionated and prejudiced in a way that suggests to me that the author had put some of himself into the character. He is the only character in the book who is drawn in the round, but his alcohol-dependency is not investigated in any depth, simply treated as a necessity to the plot. He is bored, grumpy and dissatisfied - familiar enough Amis themes - and predictably in search of sexual, if not precisely emotional, interest outside his rather flat and uninvolving marriage. To me, he is not completely convincing. He is rather grandly detached and above-it-all for someone with such a massive and corrosive problem of his own, but that is not the sort of quibble I would expect to bother Amis.<br />The real reason for the alcoholic theme is that the author is being a bit of an old tease. Allington, the publican, sees some pretty amazing things, and we are supposed to be left wondering to what extent they are objectively real and to what extent drink-induced delusions. For the most part they were real for me, and I believe real from the author's standpoint too, until the latter stages of the book. Here I detect a touch of wheel-slip - I simply think Amis is losing the plot a little, a suspicion confirmed by the way he winds up the narration in a slightly perfunctory manner. It's a fine story for all that. It will certainly appeal to his aficionados in general if they have not yet got around to it, and if you acquire it for a 5-or-6-hour flight or train journey on a caveat lector basis, I shall be disappointed if you are disappointed.real and to what extent drink-induced delusions. For the most part they were real for me, and I believe real from the author's standpoint too, until the latter stages of the book. Here I detect a touch of wheel-slip - I simply think Amis is losing the plot a little, a suspicion confirmed by the way he winds up the narration in a slightly perfunctory manner. It's a fine story for all that. It will certainly appeal to his aficionados in general if they have not yet got around to it, and if you acquire it for a 5-or-6-hour flight or train journey on a caveat lector basis, I shall be disappointed if you are disappointed.	2003-12-02
US	46899882	RJZBY13GTYZHU	0241126118	846172926	Scarfe's Line of Attack	Books	5	0	0	N	N	PICTURES OF DORIAN EVERYBODY	Scarfe is in a long and honourable tradition of English caricaturists, and for my money he is the best of them all. He has obvious predecessors in Hogarth and Gillray (and some others), but there is a different 'feel' about Scarfe. Hogarth and Gillray were campaigners, Hogarth against social conditions, Gillray against the monarchy. Scarfe is nothing of the kind. Anyone and everyone who comes into his line of vision is a potential target for Scarfe. Any of us can look ridiculous, and if we are not trying hard enough in that direction we can be made to look ridiculous, particularly by an artist with an outstanding talent for doing that. There is no real malice in Scarfe, but he certainly does not care whose feelings he hurts. He is an artist and craftsman of quite singular gifts and could have been notable (perhaps even is notable) in more mainstream portraiture, but it is his cartoons that have established him, and my guess is that his work will live on after him.<br />He rose to fame and notoriety with the mainly Cambridge-based satirists of the 60's - Peter Cook, Dudley Moore, David Frost, Richard Ingrams, Christopher Booker etc - through the BBC's satirical shows produced by Ned Sherrin and as an artist even more through the satirical magazine Private Eye which happily thrives to this day and to which I am myself a loyal subscriber. The reverential spirit of and towards the British establishment, and particularly towards royalty, had already come under attack, notably while Punch was edited by Muggeridge, but the media had always seemed to go along with this until, seemingly without warning, the atmosphere changed. Scarfe's earlier targets were British politicians but when he was taken on by The Sunday Times, no less, American leaders also came into his sights. As long as Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon are known to history, I can only imagine that Scarfe's portraits will live on with them. Johnson was allegedly outraged, and what Nixon thought of the depiction of his own features distorted to resemble the pudenda virilia is not recorded. He had a particular fascination with Thatcher, which probably did her no harm as it supported her own self-projection as the iron lady, and he is still at work on Bush and Blair. In general however, anyone with a self-image can't but have been badly hurt by Scarfe, and even the 'artist' Tracey Emin, who could hardly be called fastidious and who is on personally friendly terms herself with Scarfe, protested about his scatological representation of her - for all the difference that made to him.<br />In person Scarfe is a well-mannered and affable English gentleman. As an artist he works like lightning, and it seems that his sheer facility rather than any underlying drive is what creates his caricatures. When the celebrated society photographer David Bailey produced a slightly obsequious gallery of celebs under the title 'David Bailey's Box of Pinups', (Mick Jagger, Jean Shrimpton etc), Scarfe responded promptly with 'Gerald Scarfe's Box of Throwups' featuring the same subjects. He goes to the limit and even beyond the limit of acceptable taste one would have thought, but I for one who dislike bad language and grossness have never yet been offended by a Scarfe drawing and never shall be. An intimate conversation overheard between the heir to the throne and his lover in which the former fantasised himself as an item of the latter's feminine hygiene has elicited, in a slightly edited version for a while but since in the original, one of his more memorable images and it is too downright funny and brilliant to be revolting. To the particularly American phenomenon of 'respecting' people and viewpoints he is an entire stranger, as I am myself. More power to him, and a long and productive creative life.of his own features distorted to resemble the pudenda virilia is not recorded. He had a particular fascination with Thatcher, which probably did her no harm as it supported her own self-projection as the iron lady, and he is still at work on Bush and Blair. In general however, anyone with a self-image can't but have been badly hurt by Scarfe, and even the 'artist' Tracey Emin, who could hardly be called fastidious and who is on personally friendly terms herself with Scarfe, protested about his scatological representation of her - for all the difference that made to him.<br />In person Scarfe is a well-mannered and affable English gentleman. As an artist he works like lightning, and it seems that his sheer facility rather than any underlying drive is what creates his caricatures. When the celebrated society photographer David Bailey produced a slightly obsequious gallery of celebs under the title 'David Bailey's Box of Pinups', (Mick Jagger, Jean Shrimpton etc), Scarfe responded promptly with 'Gerald Scarfe's Box of Throwups' featuring the same subjects. He goes to the limit and even beyond the limit of acceptable taste one would have thought, but I for one who dislike bad language and grossness have never yet been offended by a Scarfe drawing and never shall be. An intimate conversation overheard between the heir to the throne and his lover in which the former fantasised himself as an item of the latter's feminine hygiene has elicited, in a slightly edited version for a while but since in the original, one of his more memorable images and it is too downright funny and brilliant to be revolting. To the particularly American phenomenon of 'respecting' people and viewpoints he is an entire stranger, as I am myself. More power to him, and a long and productive creative life.	2003-12-02
US	46899882	R3K3H1C2LBFRW0	0375414932	170170416	Any Human Heart	Books	4	31	40	N	N	WHAT WAS LEFT OF SOUL, I WONDER	As formula novels go, this one is quite good. The formula here is to deploy the narrator's diaries as a record of his life, with a `shell' narrator filling in some gaps and rounding the story off after that life has ended, and it is fair to assume from the book's title that we are supposed to relate the events to our own lives. Up to a point, this is quite easy to do. There are two basic threads, his relations with women and his contacts with the great and famous. What is conspicuously missing is anything much about the heart, and anything at all about the soul, although some irony may or may not have been intended when he dies of heart failure.<br />Logan Mountstuart was born in 1906, the year of my own father's birth. The early chapters, about his schoolboy and undergraduate years, set the tone and the style very clearly. His Catholic upbringing seems to have made very little impression on him, in particular as regards sins of the flesh, and his faith drops away early. That neatly closes off any risk of profundity or introspection from that quarter. It is at this stage also that we meet the two, at a stretch three, friends he ever seems to have made in his entire life, and the friendships never descend to any particular emotional or intellectual depth. The women come and go, and the focus is strongly on the physical side of his relationships with them. Even this side is not `explored' to any extent - it may all have been strictly missionary-position stuff for all the story suggests to the contrary. What is quite clear is that there was only one real love among them, and when that is tragically lost the book comes as near as it ever does to suggesting the grief and anguish that I would have thought any human heart must have undergone, and even that figures very little in the subsequent narrative. Logan has a son and a daughter by his two marriages, and he is admirably candid and convincing in conceding that as far as his son is concerned they had next to no relationship worth the name. For some of us, to have our own children is beyond comparison the greatest experience in living, and to lose a child the nightmare beyond all nightmares. What emotions Logan went through when it happened to him is a matter that we have to read between the lines as best we can.<br />He lived through turbulent times, but this is not the place to look for profound reflections on those. He is present in Spain during the civil war, but it is treated as a backdrop for his encounters with Hemingway and Picasso. We are kept entertained by the depictions of Virginia Woolf, Cyril Connolly, Ian Fleming and others too numerous to mention. The story really caught fire, for me, in the sharply-narrated and genuinely involving tale of his experiences at the hands of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor during his wartime naval service in the Bahamas. It starts to flag a little in the post-war world, and by now you will expect to be told that there is nothing about the nuclear arms race and nothing about the Cuban missile crisis, although Kennedy's assassination gets a fleeting mention. He does, however, go through a rough patch financially, and if you can take the episode of his consequent involvement with the Baader-Meinhof gang and the Red Army Faction seriously that's more than I can do.<br />The narration never really escapes from the schoolboy mentality with which it begins, but some of the descriptions of the depradations of advancing age on the narrator are genuinely touching. It is all very readable, and needless to say very skilfully written. I would call it a very good potboiler with pretensions, and I have rated it as such.onship worth the name. For some of us, to have our own children is beyond comparison the greatest experience in living, and to lose a child the nightmare beyond all nightmares. What emotions Logan went through when it happened to him is a matter that we have to read between the lines as best we can. <br />He lived through turbulent times, but this is not the place to look for profound reflections on those. He is present in Spain during the civil war, but it is treated as a backdrop for his encounters with Hemingway and Picasso. We are kept entertained by the depictions of Virginia Woolf, Cyril Connolly, Ian Fleming and others too numerous to mention. The story really caught fire, for me, in the sharply-narrated and genuinely involving tale of his experiences at the hands of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor during his wartime naval service in the Bahamas. It starts to flag a little in the post-war world, and by now you will expect to be told that there is nothing about the nuclear arms race and nothing about the Cuban missile crisis, although Kennedy's assassination gets a fleeting mention. He does, however, go through a rough patch financially, and if you can take the episode of his consequent involvement with the Baader-Meinhof gang and the Red Army Faction seriously that's more than I can do.<br />The narration never really escapes from the schoolboy mentality with which it begins, but some of the descriptions of the depradations of advancing age on the narrator are genuinely touching. It is all very readable, and needless to say very skilfully written. I would call it a very good potboiler with pretensions, and I have rated it as such.	2003-11-14
US	46899882	R3J59UVX92TSWR	3596148642	582195683	Austerlitz (German Edition)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A LIFE THAT NEVER WAS	This novel is obviously not everyone's cup of tea, but it's mine. I was lent it without having asked for it or even heard of it, and to have a hope of enjoying it I would suggest - don't read too many reviews before you start. Favourable as well as unfavourable, they could frighten you off.<br /><br />The book begins with a digression, but there's no way of knowing that if one is starting from cold. It could be a travelogue, showing the fascination with detail and the reflective, analytical and detached cast of mind that pervades it right to the end. The main narrative eases itself in shortly after without any change of pace, style or tone, and the calm passionless idiom never varies up to the last page. Jacques Austerlitz was a refugee from the nazis, but too young to have clear recollections of the time. He was brought up by a childless and cheerless Welsh couple, given a new name and told nothing about his origins. These come to light, as they can in novels, when as a talented and above-average pupil he turns out a model of an essay on the subject of - the battle of Austerlitz, wouldn't you believe. He reminds me of nothing so much as the 'faint phantom' who visits Penelope in the Odyssey. Everything he says is reported by the `shell' narrator, and his own narrations in their turn contain the reported utterances of others. A brief allusion is made to his slight resemblance to Wittgenstein, and it's hard not to think of the philosopher repeatedly in this tale of a lonely, compulsive, brooding thinker whose emotions and whose very identity have been buried and repressed. He makes his own Odyssey to discover what he can about it, and his 3-week bout of amnesia is, for me, one of the most telling and effective touches in the book. To me this is not another piece of Holocaust-literature, but it has its own highly individual slant on the era and on the pettiness as well as the brutality that made up that deviation of the human spirit and mind.<br /><br />There is a lot more to the book than the ghostly Austerlitz. He and his narrator are interested in places and things for their own sake, not just in relation to him. I share this outlook in my own way, and as it happens the story took me to some of my own favourite spots - Prague, the strangely empty and unwelcoming Mawddach estuary, the southern Rhine valley, even the old Liverpool Street railway terminus with its gloomy double pillars. It informed me on subjects I knew nothing about, e.g. moths and urban fortifications. Austerlitz even attended the same Oxford college as I did where he would have been taught by J W Gough and the great Billy Pantin, and I wonder who the real people were (or are) whose photographs we are shown purporting to be Austerlitz as a boy and as a young rugby-player.<br /><br />The book does not read in the least like a translation. It is in what I might call `perfect English' with the intentional implication that you would know it was not an English-speaker speaking. That is all part of the effect, as is the absence of chapter-division, paragraphs and quotation-marks. If that sounds daunting in any way, let me report quite truthfully that I was well into the book before I even noticed. For me, a nigh-on-compulsive read.ook than the ghostly Austerlitz. He and his narrator are interested in places and things for their own sake, not just in relation to him. I share this outlook in my own way, and as it happens the story took me to some of my own favourite spots - Prague, the strangely empty and unwelcoming Mawddach estuary, the southern Rhine valley, even the old Liverpool Street railway terminus with its gloomy double pillars. It informed me on subjects I knew nothing about, e.g. moths and urban fortifications. Austerlitz even attended the same Oxford college as I did where he would have been taught by J W Gough and the great Billy Pantin, and I wonder who the real people were (or are) whose photographs we are shown purporting to be Austerlitz as a boy and as a young rugby-player.    The book does not read in the least like a translation. It is in what I might call `perfect English' with the intentional implication that you would know it was not an English-speaker speaking. That is all part of the effect, as is the absence of chapter-division, paragraphs and quotation-marks. If that sounds daunting in any way, let me report quite truthfully that I was well into the book before I even noticed. For me, a nigh-on-compulsive read.	2003-10-30
US	46899882	RTIVGIUP1Z1PN	0091793521	473366841	Free at Last!: Diaries 1990-2001	Books	5	4	5	N	N	CHRONICLES OF WELL-SPENT TIME	As a document of 10 years in the political history of the United Kingdom this book is of the first importance. By 1991 the evolution of the young Anthony Wedgwood Benn, Viscount Stansgate, into the populist Tony Benn was long complete, and his career as a Labour cabinet minister was long behind him. I would guess he has done more for posterity by his high-profile stance as an independent radical thinker than he ever did, or was ever likely to do, in his various ministerial posts.<br />Obviously these diaries are political annals first and foremost. It is as a politician and political theorist that we know him from his speeches and media appearances, but this volume of the diaries gives more insight into the man himself. Early on he recounts the death of his mother, and towards the end there were tears standing in my eyes as I read his laconic and restrained account of the death of his much-loved American wife after a long and courageous battle with cancer. He has more to say about his family than about the dissident Labour party figures with whom he is usually associated, and his reticence makes this a fascinating issue for me. Some he admires quite obviously, but I got no sense of personal closeness whether because there is none or because he is simply reticent in such matters. What comes across clearly is what independent figures these are and how un-cohesive as some supposed left-wing grouping or movement. It is pretty clear - all the more so for his terseness - who he doesn't like (Neil Kinnock the `modernising' and `reforming' leader of the party very obviously indeed), but the tone is always calm and controlled. His perfect civility, which I have never seen desert him in public, only once or twice falls victim to his exasperation and disgust in the course of these diaries. He tells us what we would have inferred anyway, that he greatly prefers to be on friendly terms with everyone whatever the political differences, and the real tone of personal warmth appears in relation to such political opponents as John Major, Ian Paisley the demagogic leader of the Democratic Ulster Unionists and, intriguingly, the ostensible right-wing bogeyman Norman Tebbitt, whom he characterises as being personally a softie. This is a man people talked to, and that gives his diaries all the more significance.<br />His Achilles heel, it seems to me, is his sentimental view of radical history, in particular Labour party history. Time and again he criticises the current Labour junta for their disregard of the traditions of the Labour movement. That's all very well, but what did he learn from the party's experience when led by dear old Michael Foot, loved by one and all but generally viewed as a 19th-century survival and a thundering disaster in electoral terms? I sympathise strongly with his revulsion at the question-begging and deceitful inanities mouthed by the Blair troupe about adapting traditional values to the modern world. That they are in practice largely abandoning the values and the people they are supposed to represent I am in no doubt at all, but at least they have found a constituency. Nor am I in any doubt that Mrs Thatcher inflicted a vicious defeat not only on supposed radicals and militants but on the working class generally and on the disadvantaged generally, and that all kinds of unsavoury enterprises and their managements now get a pretty easy ride. The Labour party as a whole, and the trade unions in particular were largely the architects of their own misfortunes through naivety, pigheadedness and arrogance, and they have fallen foul of what Galbraith calls the Culture of Contentment, sc enough of us are happy enough with the status quo to object more to anyone rocking the boat than to injustice. A return to old Labour ways does not seem much of an answer all the same.<br />It may be that with some supposed communist threat now behind us people will begin to see the sheer ugliness of capitalism. Socialism to me is a mentality,not a system, and it is a collective mentality. Whatever its virtues in theory, it has a lot to live down in practice, a lot of unpleasant associations to shed and a lot of skeletons to clear out of various cupboards. If more socialists resembled Tony Benn the task would be a lot easier.<br />The book is readable to the point of compulsiveness. He dislikes personal invective and bad language. When this is used by Harold Pinter, Benn finds it `quite unnecessary' and he startles himself on the one occasion when sheer frustration drives him to the point of using a naughty word. He clucks disapprovingly at a mildly risque joke told by the Prime Minister, but oddly seems very amused by a similar witticism, which I myself first heard about 45 years ago, told by the Rev Mr Paisley. I would really have liked more of an insight into his sense of humour, but mostly we have to make do with his summary of friendly discussions as `very jolly'. But the main point of this book is its stern prophetic quality, and I for one take it - how shall I say -- jolly seriously.not a system, and it is a collective mentality. Whatever its virtues in theory, it has a lot to live down in practice, a lot of unpleasant associations to shed and a lot of skeletons to clear out of various cupboards. If more socialists resembled Tony Benn the task would be a lot easier.<br />The book is readable to the point of compulsiveness. He dislikes personal invective and bad language. When this is used by Harold Pinter, Benn finds it `quite unnecessary' and he startles himself on the one occasion when sheer frustration drives him to the point of using a naughty word. He clucks disapprovingly at a mildly risque joke told by the Prime Minister, but oddly seems very amused by a similar witticism, which I myself first heard about 45 years ago, told by the Rev Mr Paisley. I would really have liked more of an insight into his sense of humour, but mostly we have to make do with his summary of friendly discussions as `very jolly'. But the main point of this book is its stern prophetic quality, and I for one take it - how shall I say -- jolly seriously.	2003-10-13
US	46899882	R2V86AQVJISKQC	0781295742	526634656	Brahms (Music Book Index)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	AIMEZ-VOUS PLATITUDES?	Brahms is too familiar. Most serious music-lovers probably know his orchestral, chamber and piano compositions nearly by heart, and a good acquaintance with his songs and choral works with orchestra is also the rule rather than the exception. He was also born into a world of musical politics and was anointed, entirely without his authority, as the champion of various factions that were either opposed to Wagner, or were in search of a second Beethoven, or were simply traditionalists or reactionaries. A critical orthodoxy soon grew up that viewed him as the embodiment  of conservatism in his time, and usually as an almost-but-not-quite Beethoven, all second subjects, romantic lyricism, traditional forms and the negation of progressive tendencies.<br />To me this view is a wretched caricature, but it is the view you will find in this book. Latham is relentlessly conventional both in his thinking and in his presentation. The compositions are methodically catalogued and subjected to assessments of surpassing banality. My own usual first step when confronted with a book on Brahms is to see what the author makes of the C major trio opus 87. That is usually a reliable touchstone to see whether the author has any real comprehension of his complex and elusive subject. Sure enough, we find from Latham that the opening subject, though well contrived for contrapuntal purposes, lacks aesthetic significance. Anyone looking for help in understanding Brahms can safely close the book on reading that. The Brahms who is not all tunes, the Brahms who is elusive and other-worldly, the Brahms who resembles neither Beethoven nor anyone else in the history of music is a closed book to this writer. For confirmation I looked to see what Latham found in the F minor intermezzo from the opus 118 set and as I expected the answer was -- precisely nothing. To him it is rich in canons but somewhat dour. Again, for me the B flat concerto is one of the greatest and most original pieces of music in the whole world, full of profound experiments in harmony, rhythm and formal structure. For Mr Latham it does not quite rise to the olympian heights of the violin concerto. What exactly was Mr Latham looking for in it? More tunes?<br />We will not make any sense of Brahms, it seems to me, if either we view him as a conservative or try to assess him in terms of Beethoven. Shaw got the point perfectly, even in his Bassetto years when Brahms was anathema to him -- Brahms wrote exclusively 'absolute' music, as Bach had done, effectively reversing the whole new trend that Wagner based on Beethoven's 9th symphony. In fact so did Chopin, but Chopin invites no comparisons with Beethoven. Schoenberg for one did not hear Brahms as any conservative, and neither do I. He was a reactionary of the most radical kind, and in the very best sense of both these terms.<br />Because of its methodical layout, this book can have some limited use for newcomers as a convenient annotated catalogue of what Brahms wrote. Is the author up to his subject? Nowhere near it.whole world, full of profound experiments in harmony, rhythm and formal structure. For Mr Latham it does not quite rise to the olympian heights of the violin concerto. What exactly was Mr Latham looking for in it? More tunes?<br />We will not make any sense of Brahms, it seems to me, if either we view him as a conservative or try to assess him in terms of Beethoven. Shaw got the point perfectly, even in his Bassetto years when Brahms was anathema to him -- Brahms wrote exclusively 'absolute' music, as Bach had done, effectively reversing the whole new trend that Wagner based on Beethoven's 9th symphony. In fact so did Chopin, but Chopin invites no comparisons with Beethoven. Schoenberg for one did not hear Brahms as any conservative, and neither do I. He was a reactionary of the most radical kind, and in the very best sense of both these terms.<br />Because of its methodical layout, this book can have some limited use for newcomers as a convenient annotated catalogue of what Brahms wrote. Is the author up to his subject? Nowhere near it.	2003-09-11
US	46899882	R2R9NFXKQZVP48	1899131027	832732564	Actions Speak Louder Than Words: Working for Non-selfishness	Books	3	4	4	N	N	PARADIGMS REGAINED	However you choose to 'rate' this short book, it seems to me that it needs to be treated with respect. The theme is not new. The author's perception is that the multifarious abuses that we inflict on one another and on the world we live on stem from an outlook founded on the self, and that a change is needed in the way we see and feel about the world in totality. We need, he argues, to take a more universal outlook. This is not a religious standpoint -- he has no time for religion, and I should probably say neither have I. He does not argue for a complete abasement of the self so as to achieve 'perfection' in the manner of the Spiritual Exercises of St Ignatius of Loyola. Nor does he propose to try and enforce a new mentality along any lines resembling Mao's Cultural Revolution.<br />He does not talk the fashionable claptrap, so beloved of the personal development industry, about 'paradigm shifts', but that is really his theme. The book will no doubt come in for criticism, if indeed it manages to attract any significant notice at all, for lack of realism and practicality, but it seems to me that if paradigm shifts are a proposition worth pursuing in the cause of self-enrichment and career-advancement, then they cannot be dismissed out of hand where the objective is to preserve our planet and end the bestial abuses that are now everyday reality. Most of the book focuses on the negative side. As well as the familiar criminal horrors, he gives a fair amount of criticism to many charities for pork-barrelling, waste, corruption, inefficiency and careerism by the executives. Above all what he castigates is hypocrisy. He finds what he terms a spiritual circus of people who like to have their caring emotions indulged and he sees this, rightly in my view, as simply a form of self-indulgence and a thoroughly repulsive one at that. Its extreme form is represented by the lady who ran out of excuses and rationalisations for the unnecessary deaths from disease and malnutrition and so fell back on 'Maybe these people were meant to die'. Meant by whom? By someone the buck could be passed to without either losing her sense of moral rectitude or actually impairing her own comfort, fairly obviously.<br />I would say that it is worth separating the idea itself from considerations of its practicability. Obviously there are pretty major hurdles here in envisaging a world led by the totally unambitious. It is also fair to say that Scott's two chapters on the actual change of attitude necessary are distinctly thin. I'm quite clear about how I feel about it all myself, as the question has exercised me all my life. As far as charities are concerned I follow Clare Rayner's maxim 'Do your bit and hope others will do theirs', knowing of course perfectly well that they largely won't. I find nothing to admire in my own approach, which is driven partly by outrage and human pity, partly no doubt by guilt. I don't feel capable of this sort of paradigm shift, largely because the whole project seems to me to be up against hopeless odds. The book will do nothing to influence the ideologues driven by economic theory or by patriotism or by religion or by other forms of partisanship, for whom anything, or more or less anything, goes in the name of the cause they believe in. Where it might do some good is in bringing us face to face with institutionalised humbug. In the last resort those of us who can't or won't lead in this matter might follow if, maybe through environmental disaster that forces us to behave differently, a real political will develops to stop looking the other way. If it does then anything can become a possibility, and much of what we glibly call realism by way of justifying abuse and neglect could crumble like Klingsor's garden.d so fell back on 'Maybe these people were meant to die'. Meant by whom? By someone the buck could be passed to without either losing her sense of moral rectitude or actually impairing her own comfort, fairly obviously.<br />I would say that it is worth separating the idea itself from considerations of its practicability. Obviously there are pretty major hurdles here in envisaging a world led by the totally unambitious. It is also fair to say that Scott's two chapters on the actual change of attitude necessary are distinctly thin. I'm quite clear about how I feel about it all myself, as the question has exercised me all my life. As far as charities are concerned I follow Clare Rayner's maxim 'Do your bit and hope others will do theirs', knowing of course perfectly well that they largely won't. I find nothing to admire in my own approach, which is driven partly by outrage and human pity, partly no doubt by guilt. I don't feel capable of this sort of paradigm shift, largely because the whole project seems to me to be up against hopeless odds. The book will do nothing to influence the ideologues driven by economic theory or by patriotism or by religion or by other forms of partisanship, for whom anything, or more or less anything, goes in the name of the cause they believe in. Where it might do some good is in bringing us face to face with institutionalised humbug. In the last resort those of us who can't or won't lead in this matter might follow if, maybe through environmental disaster that forces us to behave differently, a real political will develops to stop looking the other way. If it does then anything can become a possibility, and much of what we glibly call realism by way of justifying abuse and neglect could crumble like Klingsor's garden.	2003-09-09
US	46899882	REU40B38HHIQA	1590170385	513746887	The Stuffed Owl: An Anthology of Bad Verse (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	'Criticise as some have done/Hitherto herebefore'	This is not just a collection of any old bad verse. McGonagall for one is not represented. Nor are the forgotten poetasters `...the semi-literate, the nature-loving contributor to the county newspaper...the hearty but ill-equipped patriot, the pudibond but urgent Sapphos...' to take a sample of  the disregarded from the anthologists' preface. The main qualifying factor for inclusion in The Stuffed Owl is solemnity. It may be that now and again Wyndham Lewis and Lee deviate slightly from this criterion, and I wonder whether in Boston churches they still sing<br />`Ye monsters of the bubbling deep/Your Maker's praises shout/Up from the sands, ye codlings, leap/And wag your tails about'<br />but a fairer sample of the `target' style would be e.g. Elizabeth Barrett Browning's<br />`Will you oftly/Murmur softly?' or `Our Euripides the human/With his droppings of warm tears'; or Crabbe's `Brother, there dwell, yon northern hill below,/Two favourite maidens, whom `tis good to know,/Young, but experienced'.<br />The very greatest can be found here at their less-than-greatest. The title of the book is itself a quotation from Wordsworth. Toweringly great poet though he was, he lacked, as everyone knows, any sense of the ridiculous whatsoever. He really did cite<br />`...the umbrella spread/To weather-fend the Celtic herdsman's head' as an instance of spreading decadence. One inclusion that seems to me marginal is from Resolution and Independence, the celebrated question to the old leech-gatherer, betraying that William had not been listening to a word the old fellow said<br />`My question eagerly did I renew/How is it that you live, and what is it you do?' Say what you like, I still find nothing absurd in it and I still think this is one of his greatest poems. How this got into The Stuffed Owl is obvious - the whole scenario was more than Lewis Carroll could take, and it inspired him to perhaps the most hilarious parody (along with Housman's Fragment of a Greek Tragedy) I have ever read, the White Knight's tale of the aged aged man a-sitting on a gate.<br />The funniest things in the book are not so much the poems themselves as the commentaries. These are mainly the work of Wyndham Lewis and Lee, but there is some Olympian demolition by Macaulay of a certain Robert Montgomery (1807-1855) who specialised in obsequious piety. The anthologists themselves contribute a wonderful preface, the captions over the extracts, and, maybe best of all, the index. From this you can easily access, say, `Leeds, poetical aspects of'; or `Oysters, reason why they cannot be crossed in love'; or `Trains, rapture of catching'.<br />How they must have enjoyed doing it all! It appeals quite inordinately to my sense of humour, and perhaps it will to yours.e ever read, the White Knight's tale of the aged aged man a-sitting on a gate. <br />The funniest things in the book are not so much the poems themselves as the commentaries. These are mainly the work of Wyndham Lewis and Lee, but there is some Olympian demolition by Macaulay of a certain Robert Montgomery (1807-1855) who specialised in obsequious piety. The anthologists themselves contribute a wonderful preface, the captions over the extracts, and, maybe best of all, the index. From this you can easily access, say, `Leeds, poetical aspects of'; or `Oysters, reason why they cannot be crossed in love'; or `Trains, rapture of catching'. <br />How they must have enjoyed doing it all! It appeals quite inordinately to my sense of humour, and perhaps it will to yours.	2003-09-03
US	46899882	R216FURQHCKO9R	0340683236	799652462	Boy in Darkness	Books	4	8	12	N	N	KEEP AWAY FROM CHILDREN	I never gave this book to my children until they were adults. I would not even have read it to them when they were small. Boy in Darkness can be legitimately slated from all sorts of literary viewpoints -- the story-line is rather meandering, we could have done with some more indication of how the empire of the mines went into decline and of where the Lamb came from in the first place, the writing would have benefited from revision here and there and so forth. But gripping -- yes, and some! This is a raw nightmare, and maybe all the more effective for lack of finish in the craftsmanship. What it suggested to me was a perverted version of The Island of Dr Moreau, but I have no idea whether there was any direct influence or whether the resemblance is coincidental. The author was, to put it mildly, talented but mentally disturbed. The central character is obviously Prince Titus, but otherwise I find Boy in Darkness quite unlike the Gormenghast trilogy. I looked dutifully for symbolism and whatnot, but I soon gave up on that. Any hidden meanings are best left vague and undefined. The other three personae, or at least two of them, are probably based on people Peake knew, but the Lamb -- a woolly toy gone so horribly wrong that I nearly locked away the children's teddybears when I first read the book. It's not like Stephen King, it's not like Lovecraft (who I just love but who surely never frightened anyone). It's not like anything I know, even my own nightmares.	2003-08-23
US	46899882	R14ZLH5PA57FKK	0631159703	239563685	An Atheist's Values (A Blackwell Paperback)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	NOSTALGIA CORNER	Philosophically-minded readers might still be interested in getting hold of this now out-of-the-way book. Its title would have been better as 'An Atheist's Prejudices', but not all the book's perspectives are specifically atheistical. As well as some semi-technical philosophical stuff, of what is (or used to be) known as the 'Oxford' school, there are some general reflections on 'What's it all about then?' taking in his political outlook, which he declares to be Liberal although it's very far from permissive, and a very individual take on what the better things of life were to an austere and shy but humane and probably deeply affectionate scholar and thinker who never strayed far from his home and his study in his beloved Oriel College.<br />Even when it was published in 1964 this book was rather old-fashioned. When RR died 7 or 8 years ago at the age of 93 I and others of his former pupils were astonished -- we thought he was 93 when he taught us decades previously. It is still surprisingly readable despite, or maybe even because of, the way it is set out in 'Dewey-decimal' numbering. Some of the issues he raises are unbelievably antique, like his indignation at passport legislation. But who knows - this very issue may be back with us in the foreseeable future. Throughout the book there are some memorable perceptions too, one that sticks with me being 'A lie can be true'. Indeed it can, as our everyday modern experiences of 'spin' and news-management confirm.<br />In fond remembrance of someone who was, in his way, quite unique.	2003-08-23
US	46899882	R2AE4K3U3UHCRI	1853268399	789454805	Ghost Stories (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	SPIFFING!	I wonder whether Mr John Major (remember him?) has read these stories. They are the English of the English (more than you could say for him I guess) and evoke the sort of idealised tranquil Albion that I suppose he was harking after when he tried to present a vision of spinsters cycling through the eventide and so forth. If he has I trust he found them not unsplendid, as I do. I myself am Scottish although I have lived most of my life in England, and I like to think that the peculiar sense of Englishness that I get from M R James is one that a semi-foreigner can feel with special force.<br />The mises-en-scene are cathedrals, canal boats, rural railways etc. It is partly these warm reassuring backgrounds that give the special thrill to James's glimpses of things old and sinister lurking in odd corners of the placid landscape. He never lays the effects on with a trowel as Lovecraft keeps doing, and to judge by other reviews I have read he is found all the more effective for that. I doubt that Lovecraft ever scared anyone, but for me James's Count Magnus is a candidate for the most flesh-creeping story I know, and when I told the story of Number 13 to my son aged c 7 or 8 at his own request and believing it to be innocuous, he forbade me for years even to mention it again. James's skill does not even depend on the degree of horror in the story. Count Magnus is horrific in the extreme, but what is probably James's best-known story? I would guess Whistle and I'll Come to You, where the story itself suggests that the apparition is one that only frightens not harms, and it frightens not a bit less for that. A lot of the trick is in introducing paganism into an ostentatiously C of E context, all archdeacons and vergers, and An Episode in Cathedral History is one of the best.<br />Get an edition that is absolutely complete. Some of the stories, like A Neighbour's Landmark, read like ideas for stories rather than the final article, but the magic is there already and there are too few of them in total for anthologising to be sensible.re too few of them in total for anthologising to be sensible.	2003-08-06
US	46899882	R2NHVTY6KQLBK6	0891902139	957550566	Ashenden: Or the British Agent	Books	5	28	29	N	N	ATMOSPHERIC	Ashenden was particularly admired by Raymond Chandler, and that is what first interested me in it. It is the story, based on Maugham's own experience, of a British spy in the first world war. The 'story' is more a series of separate episodes, and I can easily imagine why it appealed to Chandler -- as well as the laconic detachment of the writing, there is almost a feel of Hammett here and there, notably the episode of the Hairless Mexican. Much of the action centres round Geneva, a city I personally like, and there is a peculiar fascination in the voyage of the lake-steamer going in and out of the war-zone as it alternates between Switzerland and France. This kind of spy did not have much in common with the heroes of Len Deighton or John Le Carre -- the job reminds me more of how J K Galbraith described the life of an ambassador, ninety percent boredom and ten percent panic, like being an airline pilot. It has its grim side too as you would expect. One of the most memorable pieces is the story of the traitor Grantley Caypor. Some years ago Ashenden was serialised on the BBC, with Caypor superbly played by Alan Bennett. What that production did not even try to reproduce was what happened at the moment of Caypor's execution, unforgettable in Maugham's cold prose.	2003-07-27
US	46899882	R3VQNPD1QD8CN4	0140219307	7939445	Nuclear Power (Pelican)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A FAUSTIAN BARGAIN	If you want to know more about nuclear power generation, this is the book to start with. It's not currently in print, but this is one area of hi-tech that has gone nowhere much in the last 20 years, and I doubt that the text requires a lot of updating, so perhaps we can look forward to a reprint before too long. Whatever your attitude to this particular energy source, Walt Patterson is concerned to inform not preach or proselytise. He makes no bones about his own position as a committed opponent, but this is still a book for people seeking information, although I suppose enthusiasts for this baleful technology will find less in it than the antis will to reinforce their outlook. Patterson has an admirable gift for lucid explanation of the formidable complexities, and as well as running through the various types of reactor (some of which e.g. Candu, or boiling water reactors, are probably not widely familiar to the lay readership), he intersperses his account with a succession of the more notable mishaps like the loss of the submarine Thresher or the unforgettable story of the heroic and self-sacrificing Louis Slotin, a true saint of modern times. What a reprint would presumably stress a bit more would be the RMBK model that made such an impression from Chernobyl. There is a funny side to most things and I can remember some hectic commentaries from the boffins at the time. The Chernobyl type was a hybrid -- graphite core but water-cooled. The votaries of the PWR (water core, water-cooled) blamed the graphite core, the aficionados of the AGR (graphite core, carbon dioxide gas coolant) found the problem to be the water cooling, as Patterson took the opportunity to point out. Experts are very necessary, but when their conclusions are blatantly determined by what they prefer to think they are only prostituting their expertise. Where the debate is at today is hard to judge because the issue has gone quiet. It can't stay quiet presumably, but when it starts up again there will at least be a clearer perception of the economics of the industry. It seems incredible now, but nuclear power was originally touted as 'too cheap to meter'. Those of us who suspected Enronesque ingenuity in presenting the figures used to have to flog through the worthy but unbelievably turgid writings of Colin Sweet and Amory Lovins to get to the bottom of the matter. However thanks to the privatisation of the electricity supply in Britain the whole dismal economy with the truth became plain for all to see if they were willing to see it. So it's not a bargain in that sense. The bargain it reminds me of is the bargain Faust struck with Mephistopheles, only this time many who were not and never would have been party to it are embroiled in the consequences.ill at least be a clearer perception of the economics of the industry. It seems incredible now, but nuclear power was originally touted as 'too cheap to meter'. Those of us who suspected Enronesque ingenuity in presenting the figures used to have to flog through the worthy but unbelievably turgid writings of Colin Sweet and Amory Lovins to get to the bottom of the matter. However thanks to the privatisation of the electricity supply in Britain the whole dismal economy with the truth became plain for all to see if they were willing to see it. So it's not a bargain in that sense. The bargain it reminds me of is the bargain Faust struck with Mephistopheles, only this time many who were not and never would have been party to it are embroiled in the consequences.	2003-07-27
US	46899882	R1U7WIQOJ5HG12	0811212963	172558676	The Abbess of Crewe: A Modern Morality Tale	Books	4	13	13	N	N	'That woman has a bad mind'	-- unquote the most formidable of my university tutors, declining to follow up my recommendation that he should see The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie).<br />I had the presence of mind to answer 'Well so have I' but not the gall to say to him 'How about you?' Really she only has a 'bad' mind in the sense we all have bad minds -- there are thoughts we do not lightly own up to. What makes Spark so unique is that the thoughts are so diverse and fanciful. She is all over the place in the best sense, she is as light-footed as a Mendelssohn scherzo, and there is never a demeaning touch in all her writing. I never really know where I am with her. She deals with senility (Memento Mori), satanism (The Ballad of Peckham Rye), fascism (Brodie), epilepsy (The Bachelors) and sexual situations too various to list (passim) like the shallop flitting silken-sailed in The Lady of Shalott. They never become issues, they never become themes and there is often an overlay of the outright fantastic, as when Mrs Georgina Hogg in The Comforters, who has no private life, disappears when she closes her bedroom door behind her.<br />The Abbess gets 4 stars from me because it is one of her slighter efforts compared with the novels mentioned above and certain others. Anyone getting to know Spark's work could start as well with this as with those, or indeed as well with those as with this. If you can get her wavelength at all this book will not 'lose' you as The Hothouse by the East River might do. I have seen it described as 'a wicked satire on Watergate', a plonking, insensitive characterisation -- you do not pin Spark down like that. Any fool can see what might have suggested the election campaign for Abbess between the sewing nun and the electronics nun, and the repeated question to the foreign missionary nun when she rings in from various parts of the globe 'Gertrude, do you have a cold?' is an obvious reference to Kissinger but fantasy not satire. Dame Muriel was Jewish by birth and a convert to Catholicism, with which she is obviously fixated in her own strange way. I have never understood what its special attraction was for an author who has an affair going on between one of the nuns and a local Jesuit, but I don't think this author allows us that kind of insight into her thinking. This book is even more of a gossamer effort than usual and you will get to the end before you know it, at which point you will be hit out of the blue by the sudden and startling poetry of the last sentence.o Catholicism, with which she is obviously fixated in her own strange way. I have never understood what its special attraction was for an author who has an affair going on between one of the nuns and a local Jesuit, but I don't think this author allows us that kind of insight into her thinking. This book is even more of a gossamer effort than usual and you will get to the end before you know it, at which point you will be hit out of the blue by the sudden and startling poetry of the last sentence.	2003-07-27
US	46899882	R3OFDYSYX7A7KT	0451124324	751088888	Girl in a Swing	Books	5	25	31	N	N	MEDEA REVISITED	It seems that the first paperback edition of this book described it as 'a haunting and erotic story of the supernatural'. 'Haunting' I'll certainly go along with: 'erotic' and 'supernatural'? -- not really. This is a book about a romance and a marriage, brief in duration and with a gut-wrenching denouement. There's a lot about sex and it is outstandingly good, honest and original. I'd better explain 'original' I suppose -- nothing Alan and Karin do together is the slightest bit original I am pleased to say. The originality is in the story of a young man who grows up thinking himself unattractive to women and who has no sexual experience before finding himself overwhelmingly desirable to a woman of dumbfounding beauty. And this is 'no casual mistress but a wife', intelligent, loving and supportive. It all takes a bit of adaptation on his part. There is no pre-marital sex and he is impotent through nervousness or shyness during their honeymoon. Karin's sympathy and understanding conquers the problem and his descriptions of their love-making are notable for innocent enthusiasm with no trace of prurience. What I find original is that all this is readable without boredom or disgust. It is a vital element in the story, but this is still no erotic tale.<br />I can't read it as a tale of the supernatural either. My idea of the supernatural is Poe, Lovecraft, M R James, Clark Ashton Smith and that lot. Alan has something like psychic insights, triggered in the presence of strong femininity. This to me is a fascinating issue, the sort of thing that should warn any rationalist not to be too know-all. There seem to be more things, even on earth, than are dreamed of in a purely rational philosophy. Arthur C Clarke, commenting in retrospect on Childhood's End, says that while his interest in the paranormal had declined not all the unexplained phenomena -- poltergeists, premonitions etc -- can be brushed aside or rationalised away. Would you call this a story of the supernatural? I wouldn't.<br />It's the story of a relationship, perhaps a love story but perhaps that is going too far. What it definitely is is a Euripidean tragedy. Medea escaped unscathed for Karin's crime but Karin is struck down for it by the deity she has offended in a very Euripidean way. I cannot now remember where the two lines of Greek tragedy quoted at the start come from, but surely it must be the Medea. What they mean is<br />'I cannot explain what happened to her that she did this'.<br />'But for those who understand it all goes without blame'.<br />No it does not, neither to my ideas nor in the story itself.I wouldn't.<br />It's the story of a relationship, perhaps a love story but perhaps that is going too far. What it definitely is is a Euripidean tragedy. Medea escaped unscathed for Karin's crime but Karin is struck down for it by the deity she has offended in a very Euripidean way. I cannot now remember where the two lines of Greek tragedy quoted at the start come from, but surely it must be the Medea. What they mean is<br />'I cannot explain what happened to her that she did this'.<br />'But for those who understand it all goes without blame'.<br />No it does not, neither to my ideas nor in the story itself.	2003-07-27
US	46899882	R34FU5QEIOGWBB	1857988078	1396600	Star Maker (SF Masterworks)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	APOCALYPSE ON THE WIRRAL PENINSULA	On a suburban hill, presumably on the Wirral (with the foundry beyond the estuary being Shotton or Brymbo), a man falls asleep and experiences not some mere vision of the entire cosmos but a conscious participation in the Creator's whole programme of innumerable cosmoi. This is a compulsive and utterly comfortless book. Keep a sense of humour if you are going to read it attentively, as you may need that to stay sane. It starts at a level familiar to science-fiction readers, and the details of the various alien intelligences have the sort of fascination that one gets in, say, Van Vogt (or even the work that immortally began 'Help, we are surrounded by Vugs'). The vision then advances to the collective telepathic minds developed by some of the civilisations, next to the sentient minds (individual and collective) of the stars themselves, then to similar consciousness possessed by whole nebulae, and finally to direct contact with the Creator. This Creator is not some fount of infinite love and goodness as we might understand those concepts. Our values are not his -- 'Sympathy was not ultimate in the temper of the eternal spirit; contemplation was. Love was not absolute; contemplation was.' Countless disasters and unthinkable suffering are all part of the grand design. Hell itself may be deliberately inflicted by the Creator on those he gives no opportunity to avoid it. To me this scenario seems just as likely as any religious theory of ultimate goodness, which may be basically wishful thinking. Grappling with questions like these by reasoning is like wrestling with a jelly in a high wind -- when we think we have made progress it just closes back in on us from behind. And other than reason what do we have? Belief is just belief -- things may be the way we believe or would rather believe, or they may not. 'I know not \\"seems\\"' says Hamlet. 'Seems' may be all we've got.<br />Back on his suburban hill in 1937, the anonymous visionary contemplates the 'reality' around him. Like many agonising intellectuals of the time, Stapledon partly fell for the monstrous con of Soviet communism. He had no grasp of Realpolitik whatsoever, and Muggeridge's account of the edifice of corruption, chicanery and strategic lying that took in Shaw and other big brains is recommended to any who have not read it. Others of Stapledon's perceptions ring partly 'true' -- '...a world wherein, none being tormented, none turns desperate' is probably a bit much to hope for, given human perversity, but we all know the lengths people will go to when they have 'beliefs', which flourish where there is injustice and oppression.<br />Can you face this book? In recommending it I am quite aware of the disorientation and unhappiness it may create in some. In others, if it undermines the high ground occupied by those deceptive and destructive phantoms, deeply held beliefs, it may do some 'good'. The bigger questions stay just as they were, of course.ke many agonising intellectuals of the time, Stapledon partly fell for the monstrous con of Soviet communism. He had no grasp of Realpolitik whatsoever, and Muggeridge's account of the edifice of corruption, chicanery and strategic lying that took in Shaw and other big brains is recommended to any who have not read it. Others of Stapledon's perceptions ring partly 'true' -- '...a world wherein, none being tormented, none turns desperate' is probably a bit much to hope for, given human perversity, but we all know the lengths people will go to when they have 'beliefs', which flourish where there is injustice and oppression. <br />Can you face this book? In recommending it I am quite aware of the disorientation and unhappiness it may create in some. In others, if it undermines the high ground occupied by those deceptive and destructive phantoms, deeply held beliefs, it may do some 'good'. The bigger questions stay just as they were, of course.	2003-07-26
US	46899882	RXLTMQCJ6BQDA	0486211339	327147294	Odd John and Sirius	Books	5	17	20	N	N	STEPPENDOG	Until 2002 Sirius was the only thing by Stapledon I had read. Now with Last and First Men, Star Maker, Nebula Maker and Odd John, plus a good few more years, behind me, it means a lot more to me. Like his author, the dog with an equal-to-human brain is one of a kind, but the main theme is Stapledon's familiar tragic theme of the futile destruction of what intellect, mind and spirit can achieve. This is a Stapledon story with some very unfamiliar ingredients like characters and humour. It may be the strangest love story ever, but it's a love story all right, and a harrowing one. This time Stapledon is not looking directly into the mind of the Creator, but the religious professionals still get it in the neck from him. That strikes a chord with me. At a recent college reunion I attended a service for which 'unctuous and complacently servile' would have been an excellent description. If there is a Creator, to behave to him in this manner seemed to me to be verging on blasphemous, and I was relieved to get out before a thunderbolt struck. 'Find your calling...or be damned' may be the main message of this book, but it seems that the forces of futility may still get to you whether you do or not.<br />Bertrand Russell has a story that Macaulay never spoke until the age of 6, when hot tea was spilled over him at a children's party and he reassured his fussing hostess with 'Thankyou madam, the agony is abated'. The early story of Odd John Wainwright, the son of slightly eccentric and moderately talented parents, started by reminding me of this, but I knew I would soon have to take it seriously. Odd John is a superhuman and he knows it. He is not cruel or evil, but like Stapledon's Star Maker he has more important priorities than, say, human life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Life will be calmly sacrificed if it interferes with his mission. His 'property-is-theft' attitude to the local tycoon is probably a mask for the kind of early-20th century socialism that appealed to Stapledon, and John's early sexual mores have a touch of Bloomsbury about them -- the activity that dares not speak its name would seem to be obviously incest, except for the fact that it does not appear to create any downstream waves in his later relations with any of his family. The thought crossed my mind that I might be on the wrong track altogether. What could be equally unmentionable, something on which the taboo is almost as much cosmic as human? But on folk-dancing I dare not dwell.<br />Odd John will not wring your emotions the way Sirius ought to do. It has other virtues. The creativity that conjured such a riveting series of human species in Last and First Men and would later create the planetary civilisations in Star Maker is at work here with the freakish superhumans, including one that is surely the most hellish being in all literature. The book is also obviously the main inspiration for Arthur C Clarke's Childhood's End, in which the writer surpasses himself and achieves a stupendous reinterpretation of the whole legend of God and Satan. In Odd John the supreme being is not showing his hand regarding his ultimate intentions for humanity, but all in a way more reminiscent of the Overmind in Childhood's End than of the terrifying Star Maker. The main difference for me is not the stylistic gulf between the two authors but that in Childhood's End I am always conscious that I am reading a colossal piece of imagination. Stapledon, like his Sirius, upsets me by giving me the uncomfortable sense that he may be sniffing around the truth.ed to Stapledon, and John's early sexual mores have a touch of Bloomsbury about them -- the activity that dares not speak its name would seem to be obviously incest, except for the fact that it does not appear to create any downstream waves in his later relations with any of his family. The thought crossed my mind that I might be on the wrong track altogether. What could be equally unmentionable, something on which the taboo is almost as much cosmic as human? But on folk-dancing I dare not dwell.<br />Odd John will not wring your emotions the way Sirius ought to do. It has other virtues. The creativity that conjured such a riveting series of human species in Last and First Men and would later create the planetary civilisations in Star Maker is at work here with the freakish superhumans, including one that is surely the most hellish being in all literature. The book is also obviously the main inspiration for Arthur C Clarke's Childhood's End, in which the writer surpasses himself and achieves a stupendous reinterpretation of the whole legend of God and Satan. In Odd John the supreme being is not showing his hand regarding his ultimate intentions for humanity, but all in a way more reminiscent of the Overmind in Childhood's End than of the terrifying Star Maker. The main difference for me is not the stylistic gulf between the two authors but that in Childhood's End I am always conscious that I am reading a colossal piece of imagination. Stapledon, like his Sirius, upsets me by giving me the uncomfortable sense that he may be sniffing around the truth.	2003-07-26
US	46899882	R10L9POKHE3KGR	999749802X	1396600	Last and First Men	Books	5	40	43	N	N	A First Man Writes...	After 20 years of reading about Last and First Men I have found it at last. If your idea of a novel is a book about people's relationships, it may not be for you. That particular element of novels bores me to death and this is more my idea of a compelling read. The history of mankind from 1930 to a few billion years hence is pre-written by a philosopher and fantasist possessed of a great and unquiet mind, inhuman but not inhumane as someone has well put it. On no account skip the opening chapters, whatever anyone tells you. The fact that S got the world's history 1930-2003 completely wrong is not the point -- the rest of it will almost certainly prove to be all wrong too, if we think like that. What these first chapters do is to get us into the author's weird exalted and passionless mindset. He is not so much on another planet as in an alternative universe. It is entirely to the book's advantage that he has no grasp of Realpolitik and even that he has no detectable sense of humour -- when I was beginning to feel the latter as a lack I came to the only bit where he ascribes humour to any of his characters, a race of monkeys depicted in general unsympathetically and not least for their possession of this deplorable characteristic. That put me in my place I can tell you. From start to finish I got no sense of either pity or cruelty as he chronicles the the periodic near-annihilations that overtake the various successive human races, and while his account of the systematic extermination of the intelligent life on Venus filled me with a wrenching sense of tragedy that I did not feel for any of the mankinds the author himself seemed as unmoved as ever. If Wuthering Heights was written by an eagle, who or what wrote Last and First Men? Of other human proclivities I can report that sex is methodically accorded its place in a thorough and businesslike manner reminiscent of Peter Simple's great sexologist Professor Heinz Kiosk (assisted by Dr Melisande Fischbein). Of anything I would recognise as love or affection or friendship I can find not a trace.<br /><br />  Non hic mortalem uexantia sidera sortem<br />  Aeternosue tulit sollicitare deos.<br /><br />-- 'here he has not gone so far as to trouble the eternal gods or the stars that blight our human lot.' That comes in Star Maker. Here the 18th and last men are trapped in our solar system when final doom reaches out from the stars. Next -- Star Maker, which makes this book seem parochial.I would recognise as love or affection or friendship I can find not a trace.      Non hic mortalem uexantia sidera sortem       Aeternosue tulit sollicitare deos.    -- 'here he has not gone so far as to trouble the eternal gods or the stars that blight our human lot.' That comes in Star Maker. Here the 18th and last men are trapped in our solar system when final doom reaches out from the stars. Next -- Star Maker, which makes this book seem parochial.	2003-07-26
US	46899882	RF1551WINAQ4J	0905220064	790310486	Nebula Maker	Books	4	3	3	N	N	APOCALYPSE THEN	This is a draft for what eventually became Star Maker. The Creator is the same being -- his interest is in seeing how his creations work out, not a benevolent concern for their welfare as perceived by them. The universe described is a draft too --the Creator learns from results and tries other models. We find that out in Star Maker. Here Stapledon 'restricts' himself to the saga of the nebulae, intelligent beings in their own right, who eventually decay into the galaxies. Their development and behaviour is largely an ineradicable proclivity to fight and destroy one another and they end up 'tricked and led astray by the misuse of knowledge, squandering their wealth of power and their strength of spirit on false goals.' This theme is transferred in Star Maker to the planetary civilisations. Their story being open-ended, one wonders whether the Creator considers the nebulae-model to be at least a partial success, as he is letting it be re-enacted.<br />In the last resort, for all the mind-numbing vastness of his concept, Stapledon can't get away from the little planet he lives on and the behaviour-patterns of its inhabitants as seen in the baleful context of the 1930's. Two of his nebulae actually have names, which is one more than I can find in Star Maker, and you might say they almost amount to 'characters', which would make two more than in Star Maker. One I take to be based on Ghandi, the other may be recognisable to those better read in the history of revolutions than I am. All they achieve is palliation of the general disaster, and the author finishes 'oppressed with human pity and human indignation against the author of a creature at once so full of promise and so futile'. So do I. If you can believe in a more comfortable theology, I hope for all our sakes you are right. At least Stapledon's ideas are only fantasy.	2003-07-26
US	46899882	R2J6ZJLVUCBFT8	0684813785	681707236	The Making of the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	3	6	N	N	NOT A BOHR AT ALL	The real message of this book seems to be escaping people, perhaps because there is no obvious excitement to it. Rhodes is quietly plugging the view of Niels Bohr that nationalism in the 20th century was starting to do more harm than good, and that the unleashing of the ultimate energy-source of the universe in the confines of one puny planet had finally brought the issue to a head. Compared with the other matters he covers -- the first discovery of alpha-particles and neutrons, the development and use of 'conventional' weapons of indiscriminate destruction, the Manhattan project and the use of the bombs over Japan to mention only the scientific issues, Bohr's philosophy is not the stuff of headlines. Churchill and Roosevelt missed its significance through their own arrogance, and even Oppenheimer got it a bit confused.<br /><br />This book is a terrific read and don't let its length put you off, especially at the price. The history of science is engrossing, and so is the history of the 20th century in its clever/stupid way. The sheer brainpower assembled on the Manhattan project is awe-inspiring and the main players are depicted with balance and admirable restraint. Quite apart from the scientists, it is impossible not to see that even the charmless Gen Groves was an exceptionally gifted manager. The major political figures are only described selectively, and Churchill in particular is seen mainly at his worst. The antisemitism of the nazis is described with cold detachment, but one vignette that brought out for me the idiocy of the era was the picture of Hitler writing Mein Kampf in his prison cell 'boyish in lederhosen'. My thoughts turned directly, tangentially and scurrilously to P G Wodehouse's Spode (based on Mosley) of the Black Shorts Movement looking a perfect perisher in his footer bags.<br /><br />As an education, this book is a major event. As a readable account of of issues that we all ought to be informed about if we care for the future of our planet and our children it is unsurpassable. But back to Bohr -- I think I buy his analysis, namely that the nation-state is not such a permanent fixture as maybe a lot of us had thought, and indeed it had better not be. I think I see it fraying in different ways here and there, and on balance a good thing too.n it is unsurpassable. But back to Bohr -- I think I buy his analysis, namely that the nation-state is not such a permanent fixture as maybe a lot of us had thought, and indeed it had better not be. I think I see it fraying in different ways here and there, and on balance a good thing too.	2003-07-19
US	46899882	R37QJ4PB7H2EUB	0193151367	154822796	Essays in Musical Analysis / Supplementary: Chamber Music	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	A LOVE AFFAIR WITH MUSIC	This volume contains the best of Tovey's once-famous analytical essays, the chapters on Bach, particularly the Goldberg variations. Tovey is completely at home with the meticulous and ultra-methodical craftsmanship that was Bach's special way of expressing himself, and his enthusiasm as well as his exactness and lucidity should be enormously helpful to any listener wishing to deepen his or her understanding and enjoyment of Bach's sublime polyphony. His digressions are often illuminating too, but even here (and far more when he gets to Mozart and the 19th century) his admiration for certain composers in particular seems to me to skew his judgment. If I were to say that the setting of the text 'He trusted in God that He would deliver Him' in the St Matthew Passion is not a patch on Handel's treatment of the same text in the Messiah I would be guilty of utter superficiality in comparing such unlike cases, but no sillier than the great Tovey himself is in the gratuitous swipes he takes at Handel. Handel seems to like fugue for a special kind of vigorous expression not as a musical universe in its own right, but when he decides to use it for 'He trusted in God' he produces something that Bach, transcendent genius though he is in other ways, could never have written in a million years.<br />Still, Tovey's remarks on various composers' part-writing are true and insightful. What was Mendelssohn's game in his keyboard fugues -- was he just trying for an 'impression' or did he see no point in rigour? Would we know that Franck's quartet was a quartet at all if we had not been told, with its unremitting double-stopping? With the essay on Mozart's piano/wind quintet we are into the usual Tovey style, but we have to swallow the placid assertion that a perceived greater variety of style 'makes Beethoven a vastly greater composer'. Not for me it doesn't, but that is just my sense. Tovey's fixation on Beethoven above all was something he shared with his revered teacher Parry, but frankly it gets on my nerves. These essays are useful up to a point, but I'm not sure how much real enlightenment is conveyed by commentary of the 'this modulates through the minor submediant to the unexpected entry of a new theme in A flat' variety, accompanied by a slightly hectoring way of telling us what to admire. Tovey is also prone to rather solemn vapourings on the nature of Art, Life and The World prompted by this or that contrast, modulation or type of expression that fills him with a sense of inevitability or ultimate artistic truth when it is written by the right person, usually Bach, Brahms or (of course) Beethoven. He had little talent for this kind of criticism, and particularly when it comes to Brahms, who more than any composer since Bach expressed himself through intellectual devices, I wish he had applied himself to the kind of analysis he gives Bach, although the job is admittedly more complex and difficult. However on Schumann he is particularly good.<br />A bit dated maybe, but a great educator for all that.rankly it gets on my nerves. These essays are useful up to a point, but I'm not sure how much real enlightenment is conveyed by commentary of the 'this modulates through the minor submediant to the unexpected entry of a new theme in A flat' variety, accompanied by a slightly hectoring way of telling us what to admire. Tovey is also prone to rather solemn vapourings on the nature of Art, Life and The World prompted by this or that contrast, modulation or type of expression that fills him with a sense of inevitability or ultimate artistic truth when it is written by the right person, usually Bach, Brahms or (of course) Beethoven. He had little talent for this kind of criticism, and particularly when it comes to Brahms, who more than any composer since Bach expressed himself through intellectual devices, I wish he had applied himself to the kind of analysis he gives Bach, although the job is admittedly more complex and difficult. However on Schumann he is particularly good.<br />A bit dated maybe, but a great educator for all that.	2003-05-19
US	46899882	R3UPTE9B3HBL69	0520032535	565493921	Great Composers: Reviews and Bombardments by Bernard Shaw	Books	5	7	7	N	N	CORUSCATING	Shaw's musical reviews are far and away the most 'helpful' I ever expect to read, which does not mean that I agree with half of them. I am probably nearly as opinionated as he was and I am certainly nowhere near as talented, and criticism that is helpful to me is criticism that shows independent thought and goads me into some, not criticism that supports my prejudices which do not need any of that. This book is literature, it is important to the history of a musical epoch before the gramophone as well as being before Stravinsky, Britten, Bartok and Schoenberg, and of course it is sociology and politics, and above all it is entertainment. I can't get annoyed even by his most perverse nonsense such as that the Great C Major symphony was the most brainless composition ever. A free mind and spirit combined with a brain and sensibility the size of Shaw's is bound to veer off in some strange directions at times. In the last resort the man said the most illuminating things about music I have ever read. We all know that he was a devotee of Wagner (particularly of The Rhinegold) and could not abide Brahms, but it is precisely Shaw's early attacks on Brahms, before his recantation, that made sense of Brahms to me. These days we seem to have outgrown the cloth-eared criticisms of Brahms's sound that used to pass for orthodoxy, but Shaw never fell into that Serbonian critical bog in the first place. And you would never dream from reading Shaw that a whole dispute raged over Brahms's status or otherwise as some second Beethoven. Shaw had at first swallowed whole Wagner's theory that music had advanced historically from its 'absolute' phase to a new era where it required an underlying poetic idea. Wagner saw this as the logical development from Beethoven, and Shaw was outraged that Brahms was putting the whole process into reverse. Far from being any second Beethoven, Brahms was a different animal entirely, in effect anti-Beethoven. The sheer power of Brahms's music has established him, but I am not sure we have yet outgrown the decades of intellectual twaddle, largely from his admirers, that show a complete misunderstanding of what his music is all about. Implicit in Shaw's view is the clearest and best understanding I have ever come across of what 'absolute' music is. The great Tovey got into a hopeless tangle over the issue, chiefly because of his compulsion to prove to himself that Beethoven was The Greatest in every imaginable respect. To Shaw Brahms wrote absolute music and Beethoven largely did not, and that perception makes both of them a lot clearer to me.<br />He is a great read on Mendelssohn whom he disparages partly by contrast with Verdi, for whom his enthusiasm, as one dramatist's for another, is obviously deep as well as strong. (Please do not take me as endorsing such views as 'ratings'.) The great phrases and sayings are scattered broadcast over the pages of this book of selections, one that has lodged firmly in my solar plexus being from his obituary on Rossini -- 'I will not say &quot;God rest his soul&quot; for he had none'. In the final reckoning Shaw's writings on music are great entertainment, nowhere better than on the English professorial school -- how do we know that Dr Parry is a great composer? - because Dr Stanford and Professor Mackenzie tell us. And who is Dr Stanford to say? - well, he is vouched for by Professor Mackenzie and Dr Parry. And what are Professor Mackenzie's credentials? - they come from the irrefutable testimony of Dr Parry and Dr Stanford. One detail I don't understand is why the immortal review of Parry's 'Job' is printed without its immortal caption 'A Bad Oratorio'.ed him, but I am not sure we have yet outgrown the decades of intellectual twaddle, largely from his admirers, that show a complete misunderstanding of what his music is all about. Implicit in Shaw's view is the clearest and best understanding I have ever come across of what 'absolute' music is. The great Tovey got into a hopeless tangle over the issue, chiefly because of his compulsion to prove to himself that Beethoven was The Greatest in every imaginable respect. To Shaw Brahms wrote absolute music and Beethoven largely did not, and that perception makes both of them a lot clearer to me. <br />He is a great read on Mendelssohn whom he disparages partly by contrast with Verdi, for whom his enthusiasm, as one dramatist's for another, is obviously deep as well as strong. (Please do not take me as endorsing such views as 'ratings'.) The great phrases and sayings are scattered broadcast over the pages of this book of selections, one that has lodged firmly in my solar plexus being from his obituary on Rossini -- 'I will not say &quot;God rest his soul&quot; for he had none'. In the final reckoning Shaw's writings on music are great entertainment, nowhere better than on the English professorial school -- how do we know that Dr Parry is a great composer? - because Dr Stanford and Professor Mackenzie tell us. And who is Dr Stanford to say? - well, he is vouched for by Professor Mackenzie and Dr Parry. And what are Professor Mackenzie's credentials? - they come from the irrefutable testimony of Dr Parry and Dr Stanford. One detail I don't understand is why the immortal review of Parry's 'Job' is printed without its immortal caption 'A Bad Oratorio'.	2003-03-22
US	46899882	R2U8NRJWORD9R7	9997541138	667880573	The Abominations of Yondo	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Alembics athanors dolmens dolomites emmets and pismires.	Smith's vocabulary is something else again! He is showing off and no two ways about it, but Tennyson was not above similar exhibitionism. If you are a virtuoso with the language why not demonstrate it? I lap up this kind of horror-fantasy provided it is well enough written. For me it is escapist fun-reading. I can't take it 'seriously', I can't join in any cult of it and I can't say it frightens me the least little bit. The benchmark writer for the genre appears to be Lovecraft whose stuff I enjoy in much the way I enjoy Smith's, but it seems to me honestly that Smith is both a far better writer and a far better storyteller. He has more self-discipline and he is more of an artist than Lovecraft. Some of the effects are a bit cheap, but what would you expect? The pleasant thing for me about Smith is that he doesn't take himself as seriously as Lovecraft takes himself, especially with his tedious demonology of Cthulhu, Nyerlothatep, the Elder Gods and that boring lot. There is a fair amount of self-parody in Smith, but his imagination is strong, genuine and original and there is unmistakeably a dark side to it all.<br />American aficionados of Smith and Lovecraft are also recommended the stories of M R James -- not exactly the same kind of writer but likely to appeal to the same kind of reader, and in my opinion even more effective than either of these authors.	2003-03-14
US	46899882	R7GYUZP2ZF2P9	1856194159	45563304	The World Economy Since the Wars: A Personal View	Books	5	6	6	N	N	ECONOMICS MADE INTELLIGIBLE	Whatever your politics, it's hard to deny that the liberal side of the argument has easily the most stylish advocate in Galbraith. His incomparable wit, irony and lucidity were as sharp as ever at age 85, and the spurts of mockery, even when they're a bit unfair e.g. 'the military mind, or what is commonly so denoted' are memorable in the extreme. The problem with economics is that many, probably most, of us do not understand it well enough to make responsible political judgments as citizens and electors.The temptation to equate our prejudices with great and prevalent truth is strong, and discussion is unduly dominated by those Galbraith terms 'the stridently vocal and pathologically ignorant'. He addresses this shortfall with a chronological commentary on world economic history starting with the disastrous reparations policy of 1919 and the facile specious reasoning that led to it, stating memorably that the second world war was really the last act of the first, the direct consequence of Versailles. His purpose is to argue a point of view, but to argue it from independent reasoning not from what he calls 'theological' belief. He is firmly convinced of the economic benefit, and often the outright necessity, of public intervention in a market system that does not operate in the way its brighter-eyed enthusiasts like to believe. I can't say he persuades me of this because I was persuaded of it to start with, but he assembles the case-history and organises the reasoning. The book was finished in 1993 and 10 years later the doctrine that the affluent need the economic incentive of more money and the poor need the economic incentive of less is once again official theology. I for one couldn't conduct a dispute over this with Professor Friedman or Professor Minford, but I am glad to have the backing, from someone who can, for my personal mindset that not only is this view without proper foundation but that attempts to cloak it with moralism are the most odious self-serving humbug.humbug.	2003-03-11
US	46899882	R3DP7DV33JTYCJ	0195130464	518117843	Rudolf Serkin: A Life	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	'You do it like THIS'	He is my favourite piano player of all. To mark the centenary of his birth here is what I would call a brilliant illuminating and very readable account of his life, character and service to music. As well as the book we get a CD of previously unreleased live performances of Bach's 4th French suite, six Mendelssohn numbers and Chopin's op25 etudes.<br /><br />What a pleasure it is to read an account of a major executant musician, in this age of groupies and supporters' associations, that is actually intelligent. You will not find here any attempts to rank Serkin, nor any talk of expressiveness or inevitable organic unity in his or anyone else's playing. What the authors have done is to provide first a brief sketch of his life. He was born in the Sudetenland to an ethnically Jewish but atheistical father and a mother whom he overheard telling a neighbour that he was an unwanted pregnancy. His talent was recognised early as being not just outstanding but as of an unusual type. He was particularly lucky in attracting the notice of Adolf Busch, reform-minded as a musician and vehemently anti-nazi, and also, in a very different way, in being taught by Schoenberg. Throughout his life Serkin remembered Schoenberg with affection as well as reverence, but he disliked his music and said so once he had safely got Schoenberg's commendation. Schoenberg never forgave this apostasy, but the bellicose and revolutionary imagery that Schoenberg used ('you must decide which side of the barricades you are on' and so forth) clearly displeased Serkin and helped cool any early revolutionary ideas he might have acquired from his father, Karl Popper and others. It looks as if he was always on the liberal side of the political argument, e.g. he fund-raised for Stevenson against Eisenhower, but he knew he was a textbook example of the American self-view as a land of opportunity. Oddly, the puritanical exclusiveness that he objected to in Schoenberg was a striking characteristic of his own. On the one hand he was indifferent to the sexual peccadilloes of his friends: on the other he could break friends completely with someone who gave an unworthy performance of Mozart, Beethoven etc, and he reacted with spinsterish horror when someone told him (rightly I would say) that the end of Beethoven's 5th symphony is naff.<br /><br />The rest of the book is reflexions on him by associates, and most illuminating they are. Behind all his interpersonal skills, astuteness, genuine humility and not infrequent deviousness, Serkin was a man possessed. If anyone ever embodied Stapledon's grim maxim 'find your calling...or be damned' it was Serkin. As a teacher he instilled a fierce work ethic but never taught by demonstration. As a performer he was wayward and vulnerable to nerves, a bit like Richter. I remember him starting Beethoven's op31/1 in a flurry of wrong notes. Technically the passage is dead easy, but to allow any music to be easy was anathema to him. His great sausages of fingers were odd in a man of medium height and slight build, but they can't have been more of an impediment than to big men like Rachmaninov and Richter, on whom huge hands were in proportion. He could turn out virtuosity equal to any, as some of the Mendelssohn and Chopin pieces on the disc attest. His tone gets some comment, as he is often said to be indifferent to tone-colour, at least in his prime, which is interesting as Serkin's tone-production is near-impossible to mistake, like Michelangeli's or Gould's in that respect if in no other. One contributor puts his finger on the point by saying that Serkin was not 'a smoothie'. He is not alone in that -- Horowitz and Cziffra were not smoothies either. The trouble set in with Michelangeli and Gould. They spawned, unintentionally, a whole generation of players for whom absolute evenness was a basic requirement like perfectly straightened teeth, and Michelangeli himself expressed disgust at this result. There is nobody quite like Serkin when his demon is in the right mood. His command of rhythm and timing surpasses anyone else's. His discography is far more varied than I had realised, and I have to get hold of his Liszt and Debussy performances. On the disc with this book is a complete set of the Chopin op25 etudes, and despite the recorded sound this is terrific Chopin-playing. It is not like Pollini (an admirer of his) nor Ashkenazy but very like Cziffra. Of his other Chopin readings the A flat polonaise does not seem to be on record (I bet he was memorable in that), but the Barcarolle is and I shall find it or die in the attempt.<br /><br />'Serkin says \\"You do it like THIS\\"' was how he was described to me by a friend whom I introduced to his playing. Serkin's mighty Waldstein, the greatest I have ever heard, is not his studio recording but a live performance owned by the BBC. His Appassionata is in the same bracket -- but where do we go from there? Players can't go on doing it 'like this' forever, but attempts at novelty, however distinguished their perpetrators, strike me as travesties of Beethoven. It's a real problem. I can't solve it, but at least there are a lot of his recordings I hadn't known of, and the photo on p145 of the figure I came to know so well and who taught me so much about music is one I would have bought this book for by itself.the right mood. His command of rhythm and timing surpasses anyone else's. His discography is far more varied than I had realised, and I have to get hold of his Liszt and Debussy performances. On the disc with this book is a complete set of the Chopin op25 etudes, and despite the recorded sound this is terrific Chopin-playing. It is not like Pollini (an admirer of his) nor Ashkenazy but very like Cziffra. Of his other Chopin readings the A flat polonaise does not seem to be on record (I bet he was memorable in that), but the Barcarolle is and I shall find it or die in the attempt.     'Serkin says \\"You do it like THIS\\"' was how he was described to me by a friend whom I introduced to his playing. Serkin's mighty Waldstein, the greatest I have ever heard, is not his studio recording but a live performance owned by the BBC. His Appassionata is in the same bracket -- but where do we go from there? Players can't go on doing it 'like this' forever, but attempts at novelty, however distinguished their perpetrators, strike me as travesties of Beethoven. It's a real problem. I can't solve it, but at least there are a lot of his recordings I hadn't known of, and the photo on p145 of the figure I came to know so well and who taught me so much about music is one I would have bought this book for by itself.	2003-01-21
US	46899882	RGKE7OF8HOK6N	039475767X	10448117	The Little Sister	Books	5	43	49	N	N	More than a Crime Novelist	The latest in a long series of visits to LA had me refreshing my memory of one of my favourite novelists. As a young man I knew the Philip Marlowe books nearly by heart before I ever set foot in the city they put on the literary map. I have always thought that Chandler counts as literature not just as crime fiction. He was a professed admirer of the ultra-craftsman Flaubert, and it shows in the way he works at every sentence, indeed every word. He was English and as far as I know unrelated to the 'real' LA Chandlers (he attended the same school as P G Wodehouse, if you can believe it). He maintained that 'the American language' can say anything and in The Simple Art of Murder he took a brilliant potshot at the Agatha Christie school of English crime fiction , all tight-lipped butlers polishing the georgian silver and respectful upper-middles gathered to hear the amateur master-sleuth analyse over 5 or 6 pages which of them dunnit. His power of creating atmosphere is phenomenal, his dialogue is legendary, and for me The Little Sister is the best of the 7 Marlowes. It's at the crest of the hill, before he started to lose concentration in The Long Goodbye and lost just about everything in the sad Playback. I can still feel the heavy heat at the start of the book, and the dialogue is the best he ever did. Is there any other instance of anyone silencing Marlowe with an answer the way the beat-up hotel dick does when Marlowe tells him he is going up to room such-and-such and the hotel dick says 'Am I stopping you?'. And I cherish the bit about the same character tucking his gun into his waistband 'in an emergency he could probably have got it out in less than a minute'. I can't even yet follow the plot, but actually I have never been able to follow any Chandler plot, though I suspect the author himself lost his way in this one. It's maybe the first sign of the decline that set in next -- Marlowe is beginning to feel old and tired and he is probably speaking for more than himself. The plot is really neither here nor there. The only fully developed character is Marlowe himself, but Mavis Weld comes over well, the little sister herself is a memorable grotesque and see what you make of Dolores Gonzalez. The other major character is Los Angeles itself, which fascinates me as it obviously fascinated its adopted son Chandler. Half a century and more on from the time of writing I can still get the feel of Chandler's LA.himself. The plot is really neither here nor there. The only fully developed character is Marlowe himself, but Mavis Weld comes over well, the little sister herself is a memorable grotesque and see what you make of Dolores Gonzalez. The other major character is Los Angeles itself, which fascinates me as it obviously fascinated its adopted son Chandler. Half a century and more on from the time of writing I can still get the feel of Chandler's LA.	2002-09-15
US	46899882	R5X2VR6M4GOT4	0679738061	671438089	City of Quartz: Excavating the Future in Los Angeles	Books	4	9	15	N	N	A Visitor's Viewpoint	I have lost count of the number of times I have visited LA (privately, never on business) over the last 39 years. My own little piece of the city, up on the bluff by Loyola Marymount, has hardly changed in all that time. Playa del Rey beach has gone rather quiet because of the extension of the runways at LAX and that's about it -- until you go down the hill on Lincoln, a matter of a few hundred yards, and then you're into the real LA with a city within a city under construction, the Marina bigger than ever and the skyscrapers visible when the smog permits. In 1963 City Hall was the highest building in town.<br />Every visit has taken me downtown. Plenty of it is still scruffy like in 1963, but in recent years I have been able to go to Otello and symphony concerts. I have been to east LA and I have been to Bel Air, I have watched the ethnic mix visibly change and I have seen people become more careful than before even in placid Westchester. The most interesting new building seems to me the Taj Mahony as I have seen it called in the LA Times, and one of the most interesting chapters in this book is concerned with Cardinal Roger M. himself. Padre Rogelio came up on the left, (not the Marxist left obviously) as a champion of the hispanic poor and I wonder why he needs a new cathedral. Was the damage to the old one in the North Ridge quake really that bad, or is ostentation necessary if you are going to count at all in LA? Are those skyscrapers really earthquake-proof (I have read Arthur C Clarke's Richter 10) or do you just have to have skyscrapers to be taken seriously as a city? I am not religious, but the most interesting question of biblical criticism has always seemed to me to be 'What did they do in Gomorrah?'. If the rich barricaded themselves in fortress-compounds and builded themselves towers even unto the sky and the high priest joined them in a not inconsiderable effort of his own it is not hard to imagine a few parallels if, God forbid, the Big One ever strikes. Mike Davis's basic theme is not too far from this. LA has had its share of natural troubles over the years I have known it -- fires, floods and some mercifully 'minor' quakes, but the 1992 riots illustrate his main thesis which is that LA could be riding for a bad fall through social tensions, and high-profile instances of repressive policing are further grist to his mill. Whether any of this counts as neo-Marxist etc I neither know nor care, and I cannot comment on his accuracy or otherwise but it's hard to think of a viewpoint that could see all this as anything but plausible. I can quite understand the reservations that have been voiced about his tone and his style, but these are side-issues. This is not fiction.<br />Me, I love the place. This is mainly because of the people I am privileged to know there, but it has magic just for itself, for me anyway. On the other hand that just makes me privileged too in my own degree. The first thing that struck me on my latest visit to America, for some reason, was the omnipresent injunction 'Eat, Eat, Eat'. A sociologist friend tells me that<br />80% of Americans are clinically obese. Whatever one's views about inequality, repression and what have you, the underlying issue seems to me to be that our rate of consumption is simply unsustainable, and that a world economy based on growth has to come to an end somewhere. This is not music to my own ears let alone American ears, but Galbraith has been arguing it for long enough and if there is any answer to the point overall, as opposed to disputing details, I have not yet seen it. It makes me think of ostriches. When the ostrich takes her head out of the sand she can run very fast. She passeth the horse and his rider, the scripture tells us. It also tells us that God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding. I hope this is not us.kes. Mike Davis's basic theme is not too far from this. LA has had its share of natural troubles over the years I have known it -- fires, floods and some mercifully 'minor' quakes, but the 1992 riots illustrate his main thesis which is that LA could be riding for a bad fall through social tensions, and high-profile instances of repressive policing are further grist to his mill. Whether any of this counts as neo-Marxist etc I neither know nor care, and I cannot comment on his accuracy or otherwise but it's hard to think of a viewpoint that could see all this as anything but plausible. I can quite understand the reservations that have been voiced about his tone and his style, but these are side-issues. This is not fiction.<br />Me, I love the place. This is mainly because of the people I am privileged to know there, but it has magic just for itself, for me anyway. On the other hand that just makes me privileged too in my own degree. The first thing that struck me on my latest visit to America, for some reason, was the omnipresent injunction 'Eat, Eat, Eat'. A sociologist friend tells me that<BR>80% of Americans are clinically obese. Whatever one's views about inequality, repression and what have you, the underlying issue seems to me to be that our rate of consumption is simply unsustainable, and that a world economy based on growth has to come to an end somewhere. This is not music to my own ears let alone American ears, but Galbraith has been arguing it for long enough and if there is any answer to the point overall, as opposed to disputing details, I have not yet seen it. It makes me think of ostriches. When the ostrich takes her head out of the sand she can run very fast. She passeth the horse and his rider, the scripture tells us. It also tells us that God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding. I hope this is not us.	2002-09-09
US	46899882	R2GVBAUB9CNTY6	0140424261	432838089	Paradise Lost (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	One of the 'Few'	Milton himself accurately assessed his likely readership as being 'few'. No wonder. I haven't verified this, but I believe Dr Johnson's comment on reading Paradise Lost was something like 'This is not even English'. I do recall T S Eliot's two famous onslaughts on him for much the same reason, and Eliot's description of the Miltonic idiom as 'a lingo of his own based on English', which I would call exactly right, only I don't see that as a criticism. To me Milton is a drug. I love sound, I love language and I know Latin poetry (Greek as well, but that is more important for the mythology than the poetry). I also know my bible pretty well, as atheists often do. For me, Paradise Lost is about two things -- first to justify the ways of God to men, and second that incredible lingo. I'm not sure how anyone who does not have a good knowledge of Latin, its poetry in particular, can really appreciate Milton's idiom. Eliot makes a song and dance over certain of its features, one I remember from Samson being about the moon<br />'Hid in her vacant interlunar cave', about which Eliot acutely observes that the word 'interlunar' is not necessary to the sense. Sure it's not. Offhand from Paradise Lost I could quote<br />'Of light the greater part by far he took<br />Transplanted from her cloudy shrine', where you can say the same about 'transplanted', and there are hundreds of such instances. This is a very characteristic way that Latin poetry in general expressed itself, and Eliot has got the wrong end of the stick by not understanding that. Much of Milton's vocabulary is also half-Latin, e.g. 'complicated' meaning knotted and countless other such. I can never unknow my Latin, thank God, and so I can never be sure just what Milton' poetry, as opposed to his theology, conveys to those who read him without it.<br />When I had Milton forced down my throat, my unhearing ears (maybe even my 'blind mouth') at school (I did not pursue English further but went for Greek and Latin), the orthodox view appeared to be that Satan was some great piece of 'characterisation'. To this day that interpretation means nothing to me. Milton is all about sound and language, not characters. God, Satan (Ariel does not get anything to say), Adam, Eve, Ithuriel and the whole mighty harlequinade are all just talking the great Miltonic talk, like the author himself between the speeches. The thought creates the tone of the talk, and the tone creates the characters. In the early books Satan is the focus, in the later Adam and Eve. They sound different because they think differently. This is not drama or anything resembling drama.<br />Milton justifies the ways of God to me very well. I was brought up religious and I am at home with theological argument. Milton's argument is strong given his base position as an intense believer, and it is what underpins the terrific strength and the unremitting concentration of his whole apocalyptic vision. To me God is just a hypothesis and that is as far as I can go with him, and to me poetry is far more significant than theology. I have read a load of pretentious hot air about what poetry is, but the remark that illuminated the issue to me more than all the rest of it was by Housman in an address on Swinburne, when he said 'poetry is a tone of voice, a way of saying things'. Bingo. Spot on. Paradise Lost to me is all one mighty voice talking 'in divers tones' as Tennyson has it.<br />On a lighter note, did you know that the word 'backside' is used in Paradise Lost? You will find it at III/494 as part of his attack on Catholicism. This is a particularly memorable passage, and I say that not as an atheist but as someone who appreciates humour. My memory of Milton outside of Paradise Lost is lengthening, though I plan to refresh it, but at the moment it is the only instance of anything that could even possibly be seen as humour in Milton. I choose to forget everything I have seen described as 'humour' in Comus.odox view appeared to be that Satan was some great piece of 'characterisation'. To this day that interpretation means nothing to me. Milton is all about sound and language, not characters. God, Satan (Ariel does not get anything to say), Adam, Eve, Ithuriel and the whole mighty harlequinade are all just talking the great Miltonic talk, like the author himself between the speeches. The thought creates the tone of the talk, and the tone creates the characters. In the early books Satan is the focus, in the later Adam and Eve. They sound different because they think differently. This is not drama or anything resembling drama.<br />Milton justifies the ways of God to me very well. I was brought up religious and I am at home with theological argument. Milton's argument is strong given his base position as an intense believer, and it is what underpins the terrific strength and the unremitting concentration of his whole apocalyptic vision. To me God is just a hypothesis and that is as far as I can go with him, and to me poetry is far more significant than theology. I have read a load of pretentious hot air about what poetry is, but the remark that illuminated the issue to me more than all the rest of it was by Housman in an address on Swinburne, when he said 'poetry is a tone of voice, a way of saying things'. Bingo. Spot on. Paradise Lost to me is all one mighty voice talking 'in divers tones' as Tennyson has it.<br />On a lighter note, did you know that the word 'backside' is used in Paradise Lost? You will find it at III/494 as part of his attack on Catholicism. This is a particularly memorable passage, and I say that not as an atheist but as someone who appreciates humour. My memory of Milton outside of Paradise Lost is lengthening, though I plan to refresh it, but at the moment it is the only instance of anything that could even possibly be seen as humour in Milton. I choose to forget everything I have seen described as 'humour' in Comus.	2002-09-07
US	46899882	RZZE6JG06EBQU	0897330595	261442734	Homer's Daughter	Books	3	5	27	N	N	TOO CLEVER BY HALF OF 1%	I suppose I 'enjoyed' this book in the same weary way I 'enjoyed' the same author's Wife To Mr Milton, which is also narrated in a female persona. The ever-so-clever wheeze here is to suppose that the Odyssey was indited not by Homer, nor even by another Greek of the same name, but by the Princess Nausicaa, a memorable character in it, largely for her peculiar-looking name. The Princess is not on such firm ground as Mrs Milton, whose husband definitely was one person who definitely wrote Paradise Lost and other noble works. When I was last up-to-date with Homeric scholarship (thirty-odd years ago), the English-speaking scholars had at last been converted to the view that the Homeric epics were a cumulative effort of a whole tradition of illiterate bards. This view found a shrill but entertaining and very readable proponent in Denys Page, Professor of Greek at Cambridge, whose The Homeric Odyssey is in fact a far better read than this book, even if you don't know Greek. Page even has no great opinion of the Odyssey as a poem, a very tenable view I would say.<br /><br />So Graves's princess is a fraud of the worst order, a pale shadow of the 'dim phantom' who visits Penelope in Book IV. She is not purporting to be anybody in particular, but a whole lot of people. Her/their poem sucks anyway. And -- wait for this -- she does not even know what her own name means! She thinks it is something to do with BURNING ships! Can you imagine a people as superstitious as the ancient Greeks having the princess of an island that got its living from the sea called 'Burner of Ships'? The derivation of the name is from the root 'kas' with the 's' lost between vowels in the usual Greek way, and that root signifies 'excellence', which you must admit makes a lot more sense.<br /><br />I still enjoyed the book as make-believe, insofar as I ever enjoy 'drag-artist' narratives. I enjoyed Wife To Mr Milton a bit more, partly because much as I detest her husband as a human being his big poem is my outright #1 in any language I can read.#1 in any language I can read.	2002-09-06
US	46899882	RPKB3A7W1EHJ5	0394568281	225965408	Sykaos Papers	Books	3	5	5	N	N	IN A FORGOTTEN CAUSE	This book is a political tract. E.P.Thompson was a Marxist historian but most famous in Britain as a leading campaigner against nuclear weapons. The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament dated back to the 50's and ran out of steam gradually until the strategy of stationing nuclear-armed cruise missiles in England  as a response to the Soviet SS20 abruptly revived it. Everything in the story is a mere lead-up to the heroine's account, viewed from the moon, of the nuclear big bang. The tone of the writing here is like nothing else in the book and made my blood run cold when I read it while sunning myself on a rooftop in Malta.<br />The rest of the book is -- well, what exactly? Thompson was no novelist, although the book is very enjoyable and in places very funny. Oi Paz must be the least intimidating alien invader there ever was. He gets stuck in a tree when he first tries to land, he speaks in a contralto voice until his testicles finally descend helped by the prosperous terrestrial conditions, he disapproves of the boozy ways of the academics until he discovers whisky, and a certain amount more of this sort of thing. I suppose you can find some social satire in it, but not a lot and not consistently. There is probably a bit of Gulliver in it all, but it reads more to me like a flight of fancy rather than anything with a consistent thread through it other than the growing menace of the nukes.<br />With the cold war and the Soviet Union now behind us Sykaos is worth reading 'lest we forget'. The filthy things are still with us, as we get periodic reminders supposing we need them. In his politics Thompson was neither pro-Soviet nor anti-American: the man who was both of those was England's most famous right-winger of the time, Brigadier Enoch Powell, another opponent of nuclear weapons in or for Britain but all from a different standpoint. The whole issue has rather dropped below the horizon in recent years. Now when there is little or no mileage in trying to pin communism on opponents of nuclear arms and when the status of NATO is getting increasingly problematical we might be collectively capable of some rational thinking about how we extricate ourselves from the mess we have got ourselves into. To say the least, we have been lucky so far and our luck can do without being pushed.m on opponents of nuclear arms and when the status of NATO is getting increasingly problematical we might be collectively capable of some rational thinking about how we extricate ourselves from the mess we have got ourselves into. To say the least, we have been lucky so far and our luck can do without being pushed.	2002-09-06
US	46899882	R3H6X78M4QBLCO	0374526397	724275765	The Paper Men	Books	4	8	8	N	N	ON THE DOLE	This book whiled away a couple of days of a very rainy holiday in France. Normally I admire Golding more than I like him, but I greatly enjoyed this book although it's one of his lesser efforts. The hard-drinking, egotistical, talented and successful narrator (a novelist -- I have no idea whether there is any element of Golding himself in the character) is someone I found oddly sympathetic from a safe distance. Other characters in the book had every justification for taking another view of him -- other characters except one, that is, the one being his unspeakable would-be Sancho Panza Rick L. Tucker. Really Golding, like H. G. Wells, had just about every gift a novelist can have, even when he was only exercising it at half-power.<br />The other thing this book did for me was to introduce me to what has become one of my very favourite wines. If that aspect interests you, but not to the extent of actually reading the book, exercise your arrowy mind on the title I have given this little review.	2002-08-31
US	46899882	R6MB3FG4VJRZM	0140182713	528461319	Collected Poems and Selected Prose (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	OUT, OUTRAGEOUS, OUTSTANDING	I have never known how Housman got away with it, living at the time he did. He failed to obtain honours in his final Schools at Oxford but finished his life as Professor of Latin at Cambridge. He treated his fellow scholars with scarifying contempt in print. His poetry makes it clear without quite flaunting it that he was homoerotic (he would have hated 'homosexual'as being half-Greek half-Latin), and he was not only an atheist but downright blasphemous.<br />Obviously he is best known for his poetry. He was, or affected to be, surprised by the popular success of A Shropshire Lad with its pervasive fixation with death, but the reason is easy to see -- Housman's poetry is catchy. It has 'tingle-factor' in a big way, and the deadly simplicity haunts the memory<br />'So here I'll watch the night and wait<br />To see the morning shine<br />When he will hear the stroke of eight<br />And not the stroke of nine'<br />(of a man due to be hanged the next morning). In The Name and Nature of Poetry he makes a very entertaining attempt, largely at the expense of the eighteenth century style, to explain what poetry meant to him, but he gets the point across far better and more briefly in an address on Swinburne when he says 'poetry is a tone of voice, a way of saying things'. That illuminates the matter far better for me than any amount of pretentious lit crit.<br />The finest and most characteristic of all his poems is in Latin, the dedication of his great edition of Manilius to Moses Jackson. Those who have been privileged to study Greek and Latin while they were still mainstream subjects are not likely to forget its last four lines, among the most awesome in any language I can read, but in general I go along with the assessment of him as 'an absolutely marvellous minor poet'. As a scholar he was among the greatest, and he enlivened the dusty pages of classical scholarship with some of the most entertaining prose I have ever read. His address to the Classical Association is entitled uncompromisingly The Application of Thought to Textual Criticism, and his final words to his 'peers' -- 'one thing above all others is necessary, and that is to have a head, not a pumpkin, on your shoulders, and brains, not pudding, in your head' is only one specimen I can never forget. 'The habit of treading in ruts and trooping in companies that men share with sheep' or 'Stoeber's reprint of Bentley's text, with a commentary intended to refute it, saw the light in 1767 in Strasbourg, a city still famous for its geese' are others.<br />I neither know nor care what his relationship with Jackson amounted to in practice other than that Jackson was the love of his life. He did not hesitate to to publish in the press his brilliant satirical poem on the imprisonment of Oscar Wilde, and I gather there was a tacit understanding among the dons of Trinity never to refer to his poetry. That poem ends with another of his great fixations<br />'He can curse the God that made him for the colour of his hair.' Like other notable atheists, e.g. Johannes Brahms, Housman knew the scriptures inside-out and he made witty use of them -- I treasure in particular the scholar who 'has rendered Greek nonsense into English nonsense and gone on his way rejoicing'.<br />The photograph of him on the cover of this book is more favourable than many others which make him look as if he was descended from a long line of maiden aunts, as someone once said. Be that as it may, I recommend this book to anyone not yet familiar with a great mind and a brilliant and fascinating writer.ncompromisingly The Application of Thought to Textual Criticism, and his final words to his 'peers' -- 'one thing above all others is necessary, and that is to have a head, not a pumpkin, on your shoulders, and brains, not pudding, in your head' is only one specimen I can never forget. 'The habit of treading in ruts and trooping in companies that men share with sheep' or 'Stoeber's reprint of Bentley's text, with a commentary intended to refute it, saw the light in 1767 in Strasbourg, a city still famous for its geese' are others.<br />I neither know nor care what his relationship with Jackson amounted to in practice other than that Jackson was the love of his life. He did not hesitate to to publish in the press his brilliant satirical poem on the imprisonment of Oscar Wilde, and I gather there was a tacit understanding among the dons of Trinity never to refer to his poetry. That poem ends with another of his great fixations<BR>'He can curse the God that made him for the colour of his hair.' Like other notable atheists, e.g. Johannes Brahms, Housman knew the scriptures inside-out and he made witty use of them -- I treasure in particular the scholar who 'has rendered Greek nonsense into English nonsense and gone on his way rejoicing'.<br />The photograph of him on the cover of this book is more favourable than many others which make him look as if he was descended from a long line of maiden aunts, as someone once said. Be that as it may, I recommend this book to anyone not yet familiar with a great mind and a brilliant and fascinating writer.	2002-07-31
