US	46905518	RYIGFN2XYC60T	1591293081	855975732	The Slayer's Affair	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Rather Lackluster Vampire Romance	Samantha witnessed the brutal death of her parents at the tender age of 5.  She heard their screams and saw the monsters ripping their bodies to shreds and draining their blood.  Samantha tried to attack them, but one vampire held her off and left her locked in the closet.  No one ever believed her story about the way her parents died, but Samantha knew that the monsters were all too real.<br /><br />Twenty-one years later, Samantha is one of the most feared and respected vampire slayers in all of America.  She leads a crew of slayers, tracking down and killing any nests of vampires that they can find.  Until one night her impatience gets the best of her.  Davis, her second in command, tries to persuade Samantha to wait until the following day to go after a household of vampires, saying that it is too close to darkness, but Samantha chooses not to heed his advice.  She has been tracking this group of vampires for months and so goes out to kill them by herself.  It turns out that it IS too close to darkness and Samantha is trapped by 3 of the surviving vampires that she didn't have time to kill.  Samantha expects to be drained of her blood at any moment, but one of the female vampires spots a mark on her wrist.  Another vampire's mark.  Samantha has no idea what she is talking about, but she is forced to wait for this other vampire to appear.<br /><br />The next evening, Montague, the undeclared ruler of the undead, shows up in her room.  He is the same vampire who locked her in the closet when she was 5.  Montague has merely been waiting for Samantha to grow old enough for him to be able to claim her.  He admired and respected her spunk and courage as a child and now admires the beautiful woman that she has become.  Twenty-one years ago, Montague injected a small dose of his blood into Samantha, not enough to turn her into a vampire, but enough, hopefully, that she can bear a daylight-walking vampire child...<br /><br />This book had such great promise.  A dark, seductive vampire who comes to claim his mate and a determined vampire slayer who has killed countless numbers of his people.  Sparks fly and arguments ensue, right?  Wrong.  Samantha goes from being a spunky slayer to a wimpy doormat.  Right after she meets Montague, she is simply overcome with passion and cannot deny him anything.  She believes anything he says and doesn't seem to care about anything else, and she is not under glamour!  Her fellow slayers seem to believe everything Samantha says and have no problems with the fact that she used to be the first one into the houses to start killing vampires and now she waits outside in the van.  It wasn't believable for me.  It was also too good to be true that all of the vampires instantly loved Samantha and forgave her for all of the vampire murders after she became Montague's consort.<br /><br />I found the characters to be rather flat and unbelievable.  The dialogue was extremely stilted and amateurish.  There was a lot of dialogue between characters that essentially equated to, \\"okay, now I am going to go and do this and then I will do this...\\"  They weren't talking to the other characters, the author was trying to inform the reader about what was happening.  The descriptions were also inadequate, with sparse physical characteristics laid out for the main characters and little or no description of locations.  The book was gramatically correct, which was nice, but it is quite obviously self-published.  C.R. Allman has some good ideas for a story, but she still needs to develop a good writing style with a better way of developing her ideas.  I got so frustrated with the childlike writing quality of the book and horrible, flat characters that I couldn't even finish it.k, seductive vampire who comes to claim his mate and a determined vampire slayer who has killed countless numbers of his people.  Sparks fly and arguments ensue, right?  Wrong.  Samantha goes from being a spunky slayer to a wimpy doormat.  Right after she meets Montague, she is simply overcome with passion and cannot deny him anything.  She believes anything he says and doesn't seem to care about anything else, and she is not under glamour!  Her fellow slayers seem to believe everything Samantha says and have no problems with the fact that she used to be the first one into the houses to start killing vampires and now she waits outside in the van.  It wasn't believable for me.  It was also too good to be true that all of the vampires instantly loved Samantha and forgave her for all of the vampire murders after she became Montague's consort. <br /> <br />I found the characters to be rather flat and unbelievable.  The dialogue was extremely stilted and amateurish.  There was a lot of dialogue between characters that essentially equated to, \\"okay, now I am going to go and do this and then I will do this...\\"  They weren't talking to the other characters, the author was trying to inform the reader about what was happening.  The descriptions were also inadequate, with sparse physical characteristics laid out for the main characters and little or no description of locations.  The book was gramatically correct, which was nice, but it is quite obviously self-published.  C.R. Allman has some good ideas for a story, but she still needs to develop a good writing style with a better way of developing her ideas.  I got so frustrated with the childlike writing quality of the book and horrible, flat characters that I couldn't even finish it.	2005-05-10
US	46905518	R2R5ABN9CS1BJI	0689859368	904663340	The Field Guide	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Creative & Entertaining!	Everything changed for the Grace children after their mother and father divorced.  Leaving their tiny New York apartment to move into their Aunt Lucinda's creepy Victorian mansion was not what Jared Grace considered a good change, but no one asked his opinion.  His mother said it was for the best because Jared had broken a classmate's nose at his old school and would have been expelled if they hadn't been moving.  She also told Jared that he needed to find a way to deal with his anger like his siblings.  His older sister Mallory dealt with it by focusing on her fencing and his twin brother Simon dealt with it by making new pets.  Jared didn't have any hobbies and usually ended up spending time alone.<br /><br />Jared tried to make the best of his new home, but it was really creepy.  It sounded like there was a squirrel trapped in the walls, too.  When Jared, Mallory and Simon followed the sounds in the walls, they found a little nest of strange objects and decorations.  They figured that if they got rid of the nest, the pesky squirrel would leave too.  Only it wasn't a squirrel, as they found out when Mallory woke up the next morning with her hair tied to the bedposts.  The next morning Simon found his new tadpoles frozen in the ice cube trays and the kitchen covered in trash.  Everyone blamed Jared, even though he told them over and over again that it wasn't him.<br /><br />Frustrated and alone, Jared decided that the riddle he found in the old library had to solve his problem and prove that he wasn't doing these pranks.  \\"In a man's torso you will find My secret to all mankind If false and true can be the same You will soon know of my fame Up and up and up again Good luck dear friend\\" was written on a scrap of paper and was his only clue to catching whomever was doing all of this.  Jared solved the riddle and triumphantly told Mallory and Simon that it wasn't a squirrel in their walls, but a boggart - a type of fairie - according to the book that he found, The Field Guide.  What he didn't know was solving the first riddle was just the beginning of their problems...<br /><br />The Field Guide is Book 1 in the Spiderwick Chronicles and it was an entertaining book.  It is quite short, only 107 pages, with large type, small pages and lots of black and white illustrations so it is geared for younger readers.  My only issue with that is that the authors use a lot of pretty advanced vocabulary words for targeting to the 9-12 age group, but it is a good chance to expand your child's word skills.  That aside, the illustrations are lovely and very well done.  I feel that the way the book was bound and laid out really add to the whole tale.  The story is short, but full of small puzzles and riddles that children will delight in solving.  Simply a delightful fantasy read.he Field Guide.  What he didn't know was solving the first riddle was just the beginning of their problems... <br /> <br />The Field Guide is Book 1 in the Spiderwick Chronicles and it was an entertaining book.  It is quite short, only 107 pages, with large type, small pages and lots of black and white illustrations so it is geared for younger readers.  My only issue with that is that the authors use a lot of pretty advanced vocabulary words for targeting to the 9-12 age group, but it is a good chance to expand your child's word skills.  That aside, the illustrations are lovely and very well done.  I feel that the way the book was bound and laid out really add to the whole tale.  The story is short, but full of small puzzles and riddles that children will delight in solving.  Simply a delightful fantasy read.	2005-03-01
US	46905518	R2N5Q8JG9MNK0E	0445409029	557041410	Edwin of the Iron Shoes	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A Decent Start to the Series, But Nothing Spectacular	Private eye Sharon McCone was hired by All Souls Cooperative, a San Francisco legal services plan, to discover who was vandalizing a small street of antique shops when one of the antique dealers was found murdered in her own shop.  Sharon had no idea who had killed Joan Albritton, a pleasant older woman whose main fault was talking to the dressmaker's dummy, the stuffed German shepherd, and the little boy mannequin she kept in her shop, but she didn't feel confident in the police's ability to discover the killer.  Especially after she met the unpleasantly patronizing Lieutenant Marcus who was in charge of the case.  Uncertain of whether she would be paid for her work or not, but refusing to allow Joan Albritton's killer to go free, Sharon starts her investigation.<br /><br />Suspects abound, with Charlie, the junkman who ran the shop across the street from Joan's, at the forefront.  Charlie was Joan's former lover, recently jilted for a wealthier man, and he was the one who had discovered the body and called the police.  Then there was Cara Ingalls, a real estate mogul with ice running through her veins.  She made no secret of the fact that she was glad that Joan was gone so that she could buy the land and force the antique dealers out.  Of course, Cara was not the only one trying to buy the land and then there was the slimy bond bailsman and the slick \\"antique-style\\" dealer who kept popping up at every corner.  Not to mention the puzzling Lieutenant Marcus, who was grateful for Sharon's help and then pushing her aside the next.  As Sharon takes more and more risks, she comes closer to solving Joan's death, but she also comes closer to being murdered herself...<br /><br />Edwin of the Iron Shoes is the First Sharon McCone mystery and it was just okay.  The book was well written, but the story was pretty simplistic and the characterization was pretty inconsistent.  Sharon McCone is billed as this hard-boiled female private investigator, but I thought that she was pretty stupid myself.  She took a lot of unnecessary risks and managed to solve the case more by being the only one around then following the clues properly.  Also, I know that this book was written quite some time ago (I have the 1977 edition), but I have a hard time believing that the police ever invited female private investigators to look over the crime scene while the body was still there.  With a stronger plot, more believe characters and some additional detail, this mystery would have been much better.  Hopefully the series improves as it goes along...as pretty stupid myself.  She took a lot of unnecessary risks and managed to solve the case more by being the only one around then following the clues properly.  Also, I know that this book was written quite some time ago (I have the 1977 edition), but I have a hard time believing that the police ever invited female private investigators to look over the crime scene while the body was still there.  With a stronger plot, more believe characters and some additional detail, this mystery would have been much better.  Hopefully the series improves as it goes along...	2004-10-28
US	46905518	R2ZYL5T010XHUB	187696233X	574830431	The Tenth Ghost	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Enjoyable Magical Adventure for Younger Readers	Jacob Lane has always been different.  First of all, her parents named her Jacob, so everyone thinks she is a boy until they meet her.  Then there is her best friend, Emma, who is a ghost and was murdered and buried under the apple tree years ago.  She also leaves food out for the fairies who live behind her house.  Jacob doesn't know why Emma woke her up in the middle of the night, but she can tell that something is wrong and so Jacob follows Emma to hide underneath her apple tree.  The next morning, when she returns home, it is to a house full of aunts, uncles and other family members that Jacob didn't even know existed.  The roof of her house is missing - and so are her parents...<br />Stunned by the news that her parents are dead, Jacob doesn't know what to do.  It seems that the only logical solution is to go to Darkbrook, a boarding school for witches and wizards in training that the Lanes have been attending for centuries.  Jacob, at only 10 years of age, is the youngest student ever to attend Darkbrook and she has no idea what to expect.  Luckily, she makes friends with the mysterious Ophelia, who helps Jacob learn the ropes and settle into the school's routine.<br />But Darkbrook quickly becomes a kind of trap as Jacob discovers that 9 students have dies in the past 100 years - one every 10 years and that another student is set to die soon.  Jacob knows that she has to do something to stop the wicked Clara from stealing another student's powers, but all she knows how to do is talk to ghosts - how can that possibly help her!  When Jacob encounters Ash, Clara's first victim, in the school's tower, she discovers that talking to ghosts can be the perfect power to have to defeat an evil witch!<br />The Tenth Ghost is another book that Harry Potter fans will enjoy.  It doesn't have the depth and quality that Rowling brings to her series, but Jennifer St. Clair was able to add in a few unique elements to the classic magician lost parents and goes to wizard school theme, such as vampire and dragons who also go to school there!  Unfortunately, the author didn't spend time on the school curriculum/classes or exploring the setting.  Her characters were also pretty one-dimensional and so I didn't really feel anything for them.  The story is pretty short and I felt that it was a bit rushed at the end, but it was still an enjoyable read.  For those younger readers (8-12) who enjoy Harry Potter-type books, you might want to check this one out.  Also available in ebook format.l theme, such as vampire and dragons who also go to school there!  Unfortunately, the author didn't spend time on the school curriculum/classes or exploring the setting.  Her characters were also pretty one-dimensional and so I didn't really feel anything for them.  The story is pretty short and I felt that it was a bit rushed at the end, but it was still an enjoyable read.  For those younger readers (8-12) who enjoy Harry Potter-type books, you might want to check this one out.  Also available in ebook format.	2004-07-08
US	46905518	R2AFCKL4RYMCV5	0141301104	703294299	The Witches	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Wonderful Book by Roald Dahl!	They are completely bald and always wear wigs, constantly sneaking hands underneath to scratch their itchy scalps.  They don't have any toes and have really broad feet, but they force their feet into narrow, fashionable shoes to blend in.  They have really long, curved fingernails that they usually hide by wearing gloves.  They are the witches.  And the meanest, nastiest witches live in England, where a boy has just gone to live with his grandmother after his parent's tragic death.<br />His grandmother always warned the boy about suspecting nice women who offer him candy - check for gloves, wigs and pinched feet.  He is able to avoid the witches until his grandmother becomes ill and they go to a seaside resort where the English witches are having a convention just like normal people in the hotel.  Stunned, the boy overhears the grand witch's plot to eliminate all of the children in England by feeding them candy that will turn them into mice!  When he is discovered, the boy knows that the witches are going to kill him, but they test the potion on him instead.  Now in mouse form, the boy and his grandmother must use all of their wits and cleverness to defeat the witches' evil scheme!<br />The Witches is a highly entertaining book by the always inventive Roald Dahl.  You would think that a book about witches would be scary, but Roald Dahl has just the right combination of humor and lightheartedness to balance out the scariness.  I loved this book when I was growing up and have enjoyed sharing it with my younger siblings and nephews.  It is true that it has a couple of slow parts as the author takes the time to set up the story, but the storyline is just so imaginative that you get caught up in the story and don't really notice until you have read it a couple of times.  With all of the many details, Roald Dahl can easily convince you that witches are real and that there really are women out there like that!  Humor aside, it does show that you should never take candy from strangers - no matter what they look like!  Although this book is great for reading alone, it is best when real aloud and shared with children, who always know the right parts to gasp at!m strangers - no matter what they look like!  Although this book is great for reading alone, it is best when real aloud and shared with children, who always know the right parts to gasp at!	2004-07-08
US	46905518	R34QIJQYZYNQII	0449148912	685208801	Murder in a Nice Neighborhood	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting Characters &amp; Intriguing Mystery	Liz Sullivan was innocently enjoying a pear and a book when Pigpen Murphy accosted her.  Liz could just never get it through to Pigpen that she wasn't interested and never would be interested, bad smell notwithstanding.  It is true that she had to be a little more forceful than usual, slamming the door shut on her home, her snug little VW bus, and Pigpen's hand just happened to be in the way at the time, but was that any reason for him to smash a fist through her window?  Things just got worse when Liz woke up to find a very dead Pigpen underneath her bus the next morning.<br />Detective Paul Drake obviously regarded Liz as his prime suspect and a strong flight risk, due to her highly mobile &quot;house.&quot;  Liz greatly resented Detective Drake prying into her affairs and ripping apart her carefully constructed life in Palo Alto, CA.  Liz liked living in the Bay area and didn't want to move, but she knew that it would only be a matter of time before her abusive ex-husband would show up.  Still, she couldn't leave before the police investigation was cleared up, so Liz continued researching her new article, teaching a Senior Center Writer's Workshop, swimming at the local pool and helping out the temporarily incapacitated Claudia Kaplan.  However, as Liz continued to maintain her innocence, more bodies began to pile up with another vagabond and a sweet old lady being murdered in the same manner.  And Liz was the last one reported to see them alive...<br />Murder in a Nice Neighborhood was a thoroughly enjoyable mystery and a great start to a new series.  I found the main character to be very interesting and unique in that she was homeless and what most would consider a vagrant, but she led her life in a normal fashion and had a good reason for traveling around.  I also loved her views of the other characters in the book and the author really seemed to have fun with certain stereotypes such as Claudia Kaplan, an author who still mourned her husband's passing 10 years previously and was sharper than a tack; Vivien, a sweet, old retired lady just barely making ends meet, but still determined to live out her life the way she wanted; Delores Mitchell, the all too perfect loan manager who never had a hair out of place and was just so much fun to tease; Ted, the ambitious real estate agent who was ready to pour on the charm, anytime, anyplace; and Paul Drake, the constantly disheveled detective who seemed like a bumbler, but was really a great investigator and a host of others.  I enjoyed reading about the characters more than learning about the mystery, actually.  I didn't think the mystery was that difficult to solve and had suspicions pretty early on as to whodunit, but the book was still enjoyable and very well written.  Recommended for fans of mysteries in the cozy genre.s previously and was sharper than a tack; Vivien, a sweet, old retired lady just barely making ends meet, but still determined to live out her life the way she wanted; Delores Mitchell, the all too perfect loan manager who never had a hair out of place and was just so much fun to tease; Ted, the ambitious real estate agent who was ready to pour on the charm, anytime, anyplace; and Paul Drake, the constantly disheveled detective who seemed like a bumbler, but was really a great investigator and a host of others.  I enjoyed reading about the characters more than learning about the mystery, actually.  I didn't think the mystery was that difficult to solve and had suspicions pretty early on as to whodunit, but the book was still enjoyable and very well written.  Recommended for fans of mysteries in the cozy genre.	2004-07-01
US	46905518	RRYO09G7BIQ65	0373483635	444379962	Summer Sensations (Silhouette Promo)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Perfect Summer Romance!	Blackout by Linda Howard - Elizabeth Major was an interior designer who was just starting to break into the wealthy market.  She worked out of her office in a sleek Dallas highrise across the hall from the security offices of Tom Quinlan.  Elizabeth didn't know much about Tom, but she got involved with him anyway - the physical attraction between the two of them was just too much to resist!  However, Elizabeth unexpectedly broke off the relationship after a short time and avoided Tom whenever possible, never even telling him why she dumped him.  Unfortunately, a record heat wave left her stranded in the office building with only Tom for company.  And this time, Tom was determined to discover why Elizabeth had left him...<br />The Leopard's Woman by Linda Lael Miller - Olivia Stillwell loved her job.  She got to travel all over the world researching new scenes for her uncle's books and focus on her artistic pottery in her down time.  Olivia wasn't particularly enjoying her latest assignment in Mexico, especially when her car broke down and she was kidnapped by bandits and sold to Esteban Ramirez, a wealthy rancher.  Unsure of what Esteban planned to do with her, Olivia was determined to fight Esteban every step of the way.  But as the hot summer days turned into sizzling siestas and sultry nights, Olivia found it more and more difficult to resist Esteban...<br />Lonesome Rider by Heather Graham Pozzessere - Blade McKenna lived for revenge.  Ever since the soldiers had murdered his wife, their unborn child and his father, he had dedicated his life to hunting the men down, one by one.  His path led him out west, where he ran into the beautiful widow Jessica Dylan, who was on her way to claim her late husband's ranch and only legacy.  Jessica tried to hire Blade to work for her and protect her, but Blade's price was too high - he wanted Jessica.  After a great deal of thought, Jessica agreed to his price and started a whirlwind romance between two very different people...<br />Summer Sensations is a typical anthology in that the stories have little, if anything in common, except hot days.  I enjoyed Overload by Howard, but felt that I didn't get enough time to get to know the characters.  I also felt that I entered the relationship in the middle and never really got to see the beginning or a definitive end.  Still, her characters were engaging and her sex scenes were hot, as always.  My favorite story was The Leopard's Woman.  I am just a sucker for those domineering, hot-blooded Latino men who take what they want and spend the rest of the time persuading their women that they are right where they belong.  I could definitely feel the heat coming off of the pages for this one!  Lonesome Rider was also well written and I really liked the hero, but the heroine was a little too perfect for me.  It was the only historical romance in the anthology and so it stuck out a bit more.  I had a hard time getting into it because I was expecting another contemporary romance.  Still, you can find this book at bargain prices and if you read all of the stories at separate times, I think you can appreciate each of the individual authors' strengths more fully.  Recommended for fans of the authors - all stories are reprints so check your shelves before you buy!..<br />Summer Sensations is a typical anthology in that the stories have little, if anything in common, except hot days.  I enjoyed Overload by Howard, but felt that I didn't get enough time to get to know the characters.  I also felt that I entered the relationship in the middle and never really got to see the beginning or a definitive end.  Still, her characters were engaging and her sex scenes were hot, as always.  My favorite story was The Leopard's Woman.  I am just a sucker for those domineering, hot-blooded Latino men who take what they want and spend the rest of the time persuading their women that they are right where they belong.  I could definitely feel the heat coming off of the pages for this one!  Lonesome Rider was also well written and I really liked the hero, but the heroine was a little too perfect for me.  It was the only historical romance in the anthology and so it stuck out a bit more.  I had a hard time getting into it because I was expecting another contemporary romance.  Still, you can find this book at bargain prices and if you read all of the stories at separate times, I think you can appreciate each of the individual authors' strengths more fully.  Recommended for fans of the authors - all stories are reprints so check your shelves before you buy!	2004-06-01
US	46905518	R2SWJAYJB7T6W6	074347418X	792256877	Ransom	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Highland Romance!	Gillian was just a small child when she saw her father murdered by the vicious Baron Alford.  Claimed as Baron Alford's ward, Gillian was fortunate enough to be raised by her beloved Uncle Morgan, but Baron Alford soon called her back to his castle.  For the Baron needed to produce Arianna's Box, a bejeweled golden box commissioned by King John, or King John would kill him.  King John had never forgiven Gillian's father for murdering his great love, his beautiful Arianna, but he was convinced that Gillian would know where the box was hidden.  Unfortunately, Gillian had no idea, but she knew that they would carry through their threat of torturing and killing her Uncle Morgan if she didn't find the box.  She also knew that they would kill the young child, Alec, the son of a Highland chieftain, as soon as they discovered that they had kidnapped the wrong child.  Left with no choice, Gillian took Alec and fled for the Highlands to find her long-lost older sister and to return Alec to his home and parents.<br />Gillian knew that she needed help to find her sister and she knew that she would need a strong champion to help her save her Uncle Morgan.  When Alec waxed eloquent about his protector, Brodick Buchanan, Gillian knew that she had found her champion.  By pretending to be Brodick's bride, Gillian ensured that Brodick would find her quickly and she could see his skills with her own eyes.  When Gillian first spotted Brodick, she knew she was in trouble.  The man was so stubborn and exasperating, but she found herself falling in love with him regardless.  Brodick knew that Gillian was English, which was a pretty big flaw, but he had never seen anyone so lovely and she didn't seem to be afraid of him, which was a first.  As he escorted Gillian and Alec to Iain's land to return the lad and then took Gillian to Ramsey Sinclair's land to find her sister, he found himself falling in love with her.  However, just because he loved her and married her didn't mean that Gillian would obey him...<br />Many of Ransom's characters come from Garwood's book, The Secret, which introduced Laird Iain and his bride.  Brodrick and Ramsey were Iain's commanders at the time and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing them again in this book as they sought out their own happiness.  I thought that the romance between Brigid KirkConnell and Ramsey Sinclair was too rushed and would have liked to have seen them have a book of their own, but their plot was integral to Brodick and Gillian's story so I understand why it was a subplot instead of a full story.  However, I still would have liked a separate story as Ramsey was such a handsome devil that he deserved a woman who would give him a bit of trouble!  Other than that complaint, I would have to say that the story is thoroughly enjoyable and fast paced.  I appreciate Garwood's efforts to actually create a story with memorable characters and historical background and detailing, rather than a shallow book with small links between sex scenes.  I liked the characters and thought that it was a fun, fast read.  If you enjoy historical romances, especially those set in the Scottish highlands, then don't miss Garwood's excellent romances based there!would obey him...<br />Many of Ransom's characters come from Garwood's book, The Secret, which introduced Laird Iain and his bride.  Brodrick and Ramsey were Iain's commanders at the time and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing them again in this book as they sought out their own happiness.  I thought that the romance between Brigid KirkConnell and Ramsey Sinclair was too rushed and would have liked to have seen them have a book of their own, but their plot was integral to Brodick and Gillian's story so I understand why it was a subplot instead of a full story.  However, I still would have liked a separate story as Ramsey was such a handsome devil that he deserved a woman who would give him a bit of trouble!  Other than that complaint, I would have to say that the story is thoroughly enjoyable and fast paced.  I appreciate Garwood's efforts to actually create a story with memorable characters and historical background and detailing, rather than a shallow book with small links between sex scenes.  I liked the characters and thought that it was a fun, fast read.  If you enjoy historical romances, especially those set in the Scottish highlands, then don't miss Garwood's excellent romances based there!	2004-06-01
US	46905518	R1ZRQLFLNUWOO2	0553220136	466134390	MAGNIFICENT FOLLY (Loveswept)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	3rd in the Sedikhan Series by Johansen	Lily Deslin was a survivor.  She had fallen in love with a man who was a serial killer who murdered her mother.  Devastated by her poor choice in men, Lily continued her college career, got artificially inseminated and showered all of her love, care and affection on her beloved daughter, Cassie.  Lily put her feelings on deep freeze and kept everyone else out of her life.  As Cassie grew older, she became known as a musical prodigy and was well known for both her compositions and her magical performances.  When both Lily and Cassie rented a small cottage on the beach for a well-deserved vacation, they had no idea that their lives were about to change...<br />Andrew Ramsey had waited for years for Lily to be ready to meet him.  He was the sperm donor for Cassie and had watched them from afar since she was born.  When he first met Lily and told her who he was, she scoffed at him and told him that his dreams of living together as a family would never come true.  But Andrew had not waited so long and so patiently for Lily to just throw him out.  There was plenty of physical attraction between the two of them, attraction that Andrew fed until Lily couldn't deny him a part in her life.  But Andrew was forced to tell Lily more than he wanted to when Cassie was suddenly kidnapped.  Lily wanted to call the police, but Andrew knew that the police could do nothing for Cassie.  For Andrew was Clanad, a group of humans who had found refuge in the remote desert kingdom of Sedikhan.  They were experimented on generations before and gifted with increased intelligence and mental powers like healing, mind control and others.  And there were people who would do anything to get their hands on them...<br />Magnificent Folly is the 3rd book in the Sedikhan series by Iris Johansen.  In the first book, Last Bridge Home, the heroine was pregnant with Andrew, so it was fun to see him all grown up and falling in love on his own.  If you read them in order, you get more background information, but I read Magnificent Folly first and didn't have any trouble understanding what was going on.  This is my favorite in the series and I just love Andrew's character.  He is truly a gentle hero who is not afraid to fight for what he wants, but would rather persuade and woo.  Lily was a tough heroine who had to deal with a lot of challenges in life, but it was her toughness and survival skills that attracted Andrew to her in the first place.  Well written, fast paced, with hot romance, this is a book not to be missed for Iris Johansen fans!but I read Magnificent Folly first and didn't have any trouble understanding what was going on.  This is my favorite in the series and I just love Andrew's character.  He is truly a gentle hero who is not afraid to fight for what he wants, but would rather persuade and woo.  Lily was a tough heroine who had to deal with a lot of challenges in life, but it was her toughness and survival skills that attracted Andrew to her in the first place.  Well written, fast paced, with hot romance, this is a book not to be missed for Iris Johansen fans!	2004-06-01
US	46905518	R1B6FNP19PSB96	0345366298	162330594	Faery Lands Forlorn: Part Two of A Man of His Word	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Second Book in the Man of His Word Series	Faery Lands Forlorn picks up right where Magic Casement left off with Rap fecklessly and fearlessly plunging in through the magic casement to try and find Inos, only to find that Inos and he landed in different realms.  Inos was captured by the sorceress Rasha, a self-styled Sultana who has taken over the country of Zark, land of the Djinns.  Inos is unsure why she has been captured by Rasha, but she is determined to escape so she turns to Azak, the rightful Sultan, confident that if anyone hates Rasha more than her, it would be the man Rasha has humiliated and enslaved.  For Rasha has cast a spell over Azak that causes anyone who speaks his rightful title as Sultan to turn to stone and that any woman he touches (aside from Rasha) he will burn like a hot iron.<br />Meanwhile, Rap, Little Chicken and companion have found themselves wandering in the land of Faerie.  By now, Rap has discovered that he has a word of power and that that is why Andor was trying to befriend him.  Rap also discovered their secret - that Andor, Jalon, Sagorn and Darad all were cursed by a sorcerer so that only one of them can &quot;live&quot; at a time, the other personalities are all in a kind of limbo while one person gets through whatever adventure they are currently in the middle of.  Even though Rap has his doubts about his so-called allies, he is willing to use everyone for their skills to try and find Inos and rescue her.  Along the way, he expands his band by befriending Captain Gathmore, a Jotunn sailor who manages to get Rap hired on as part of his crew.  At least Rap is mobile now, but he isn't heading in the right direction and he still has old enemies to worry about, as well as the unwanted attention of the witches and warlocks of the regions...<br />Faery Lands Forlorn picks up the adventure from Magic Casement without missing a beat.  Since David Duncan is a superb author, I think that you could jump in on this one and understand what is going on without reading the first one, but why deprive yourself of the pleasure?  Rap is still a delightful hero in a very non-traditional sense and the reader gets the opportunity to learn about how magic works in the world of Pandemia as Rap discovers more powers and uses for his gifts of farsight and working with animals.  The way that magic works in this world is fascinating and it is interesting to note that the author does distinguish between a sorcerer and a magician in that the former's spells are permanent and the latter's spells only last as long as the magician is focusing on them.  Again, Rap was by far more interesting than Inos, but she did further along the plot and give Duncan to create another section of this world that reminded me of an Arabian Nights story.  Aunt Kade is really starting to come into her own in this book and she makes the parts with Inos sparkle a bit more than they did before.  The secondary characters are also delightful and fun to get to know.  If you are interested in reading a tale set in a world both familiar and strange where Duncan takes everything about a traditional fairy tale and just tweaks it a bit so it is fresh and unexpected, then this is a series for you!but why deprive yourself of the pleasure?  Rap is still a delightful hero in a very non-traditional sense and the reader gets the opportunity to learn about how magic works in the world of Pandemia as Rap discovers more powers and uses for his gifts of farsight and working with animals.  The way that magic works in this world is fascinating and it is interesting to note that the author does distinguish between a sorcerer and a magician in that the former's spells are permanent and the latter's spells only last as long as the magician is focusing on them.  Again, Rap was by far more interesting than Inos, but she did further along the plot and give Duncan to create another section of this world that reminded me of an Arabian Nights story.  Aunt Kade is really starting to come into her own in this book and she makes the parts with Inos sparkle a bit more than they did before.  The secondary characters are also delightful and fun to get to know.  If you are interested in reading a tale set in a world both familiar and strange where Duncan takes everything about a traditional fairy tale and just tweaks it a bit so it is fresh and unexpected, then this is a series for you!	2004-05-12
US	46905518	RBPM5O9MR0GE2	034536628X	956166188	Magic Casement (Man of His Word, Book 1)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Thoroughly Enjoyable to the Man and His Word Series	Princess Inosolan is bored.  Bored with the tiny kingdom of Krasnegar, bored with her Aunt Kade's attempts to give her some polish and just bored of being somewhere where nothing ever happens!  However, she is simply stunned to discover that her father, King Holindarn, is sending her to Kinvale with her Aunt Kade to find a husband.  Inos doesn't feel ready to marry and has never even been interested in boys that way.  Well, there was Rap, the stableboy, whom she rode horses and played on the beach with, but he surely didn't count.  After all, Rap wasn't a boy he was just Rap.<br />Inos hated Kinvale when she first arrived.  She wasn't good at any of the maidenly pursuits that were focused on there and she really didn't care about embroidery or anything of that nature anyway - until Sir Andor arrived...Sir Andor was everything a maiden dreams of marrying - strong, handsome, charming, witty, attentive to a woman's every wish and desire.  If Inos got to select her husband, and her father said that she may, she would surely pick Sir Andor.  However, before they could reach a firmer understanding on the matter, Sir Andor up and left for the winter and Inos began to despair of ever seeing him again...<br />Meanwhile, back in Krasnegar, Rap was working hard with the horses and trying to improve his station in life from stableboy or goat herder to wagon driver, but he couldn't stop thinking about Inos.  Oh, Rap well knew that their stations in life were so different that there could never be anything between them, but that didn't stop him from loving her.  He just hoped that he would still recognize her when she returned from Kinvale and that they would still be friends.  So Rap was thrilled to befriend Sir Andor, a visitor to the small kingdom of Krasnegar who seemed to have selected him specially to be a friend who helped to get his mind off of Inos.  Rap would do anything for Sir Andor and, when he discovered that Inos was in danger, he left everything he knew behind to travel overland with Sir Andor to rescue his princess.  But Rap quickly discovered that Sir Andor was not what he seemed and that he was far from being an ordinary stableboy...<br />Magic Casement is the first book in the Man of His Word quartet and it is a wonderful kick off to a thoroughly enjoyable series.  My favorite character was Rap.  It is true that he was not necessary a quick thinker and that he didn't react to things in the way I visualized a hero would, be he was dogged, determined and dependable and he fought through everything to give Inos the chance to take over her kingdom and rule.  Inos was also a good character, but I didn't find her quite as interesting.  I found myself rushing through the parts of her story to get back to see what was happening to Rap, but I liked the way Duncan dealt with both main characters at the same time by changing perspective so that you knew what was going on wherever they were.  In addition to Rap and Inos, there is a host of engaging and intriguing secondary characters that readers will delight in getting to know including the witches/warlocks who guard the segments of the kingdom, the different races who populate the land, Sir Andor, the minstrel Jalon, the scholarly Dr. Sagorn, the monster Darad and the unexpected Little Chicken.  Though this series is out of print, the books are readily available and they are also found in ebook format.  Another great series by David Duncan - highly recommended for fantasy fans looking for a new twist on an old theme.o travel overland with Sir Andor to rescue his princess.  But Rap quickly discovered that Sir Andor was not what he seemed and that he was far from being an ordinary stableboy...<br />Magic Casement is the first book in the Man of His Word quartet and it is a wonderful kick off to a thoroughly enjoyable series.  My favorite character was Rap.  It is true that he was not necessary a quick thinker and that he didn't react to things in the way I visualized a hero would, be he was dogged, determined and dependable and he fought through everything to give Inos the chance to take over her kingdom and rule.  Inos was also a good character, but I didn't find her quite as interesting.  I found myself rushing through the parts of her story to get back to see what was happening to Rap, but I liked the way Duncan dealt with both main characters at the same time by changing perspective so that you knew what was going on wherever they were.  In addition to Rap and Inos, there is a host of engaging and intriguing secondary characters that readers will delight in getting to know including the witches/warlocks who guard the segments of the kingdom, the different races who populate the land, Sir Andor, the minstrel Jalon, the scholarly Dr. Sagorn, the monster Darad and the unexpected Little Chicken.  Though this series is out of print, the books are readily available and they are also found in ebook format.  Another great series by David Duncan - highly recommended for fantasy fans looking for a new twist on an old theme.	2004-05-12
US	46905518	R2VBJUBNB8OEXC	0759239584	965868483	Emperor and Clown	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Fourth Book in A Man of His Word Series	Emperor and Clown picks up where Perilous Seas left off, with Queen Inos of Krasnegar married to the cursed Sultan Azak of Zark.  Inos hopes that Azak will help solidify her right to rule the tiny kingdom of Krasnegar, but she soon discovers that Azak is nowhere near as easy to manage now that Rap has killed the Sorceress Rasha.  To make matters worse, the curse that Rasha placed on Azak is still there - he still cannot touch another woman without burning her.  Humiliated, but determined to make Inos his, Azak and Inos set out for the capital of the Impire to beg the Imperor's aid.<br />Meanwhile, Rap is being tortured in Azak's dungeon because it is obvious that he has feelings for Inos.  Inos has no idea that he is there, as Azak promised her that he would be released.  However, Rap's faithful friends are not about to let Rap die in some desert dungeon in the middle of nowhere.  Once free, Rap isn't sure what to do.  He was so sure that Inos would need his help and that they would return to Krasnegar together once he found her, but now she was married to the handsome, powerful sultan - what would she need with a homely, faithful stableboy?  Still, Rap had promises to keep and prophecies to fulfill so he too set out for the heart of the Impire.  All too soon Rap would find himself battling the crazed jotunn raider Kalkor, meddling in the Impire's politics and finding himself one of the most feared men alive...<br />Emperor and Clown is the fourth and final book in A Man of His Word series and it was a riveting conclusion.  I found myself racing through the book, desperate to find out what happened to Rap, one of my favorite heroes who is not exactly a hero.  Inos has finally become an interesting character so I didn't find myself skimming through her sections as I sometimes did in the past, which helped pick up the pace quite a bit.  A few new secondary characters were introduced along with the regular bunch which kept the story fresh and new.  We also got to see the heart of the Pandemian Impire, which was quite interesting.  I have to admit that the ending was a shocker and I wasn't necessarily pleased with the way it ended, but I guess there was really no other way.  The ending aside, this is the still the best and most exciting book in this series!  A masterful conclusion to a lovely epic fantasy series.he heart of the Pandemian Impire, which was quite interesting.  I have to admit that the ending was a shocker and I wasn't necessarily pleased with the way it ended, but I guess there was really no other way.  The ending aside, this is the still the best and most exciting book in this series!  A masterful conclusion to a lovely epic fantasy series.	2004-05-12
US	46905518	R3LFTD0FE7D8BJ	0759239487	772390255	Perilous Seas	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Book Three in A Man of His Word Series	Perilous Seas picks up right were Faery Lands Forlorn left us with Queen Inos still stuck in Zark, land of the Djinns, captive of the Sorceress Rasha.  Inos is about to despair of ever escaping the sorceress and she still doesn't know if she should accept the Sultan Azak's marriage proposal or not.  The gods told her long ago to trust in love - but what does that mean!  Surely it must mean to trust in Azak's love for her, even though she doesn't love him, or does it?  When Inos and Azak make a desperate bid for freedom, Inos drags her beloved Aunt Kade all across the desert in strange disguises.  She will do anything to make it to the Imperor to plead her case for her beloved people in her shabby little kingdom of Krasnegar.  Along the way, she is stunned to see Rap's image appear in the middle of the desert.  Surely he must be a demon come to torment her for leaving him to die in the tower long ago.  But how could Rap be that cruel...<br />Rap is anything but dead.  After escaping the land of Faerie in a Jotunn boat, captained by Gathmore, Rap is all but imprisoned on the island of Durthing.  He was bought as a slave to work on the boat, but earned his freedom, however, his gift of farsight makes him far too valuable to risk losing.  When the vicious Jotunn raider, Kalkor, arrives on Durthing, he slaughters every man, woman and child he finds - but he takes Rap and Gathmore on board his ship.  For the first time Rap gets to see what the power of multiple words turns a person into.  Kalkor no longer has a heart and Rap wonders if he even has a soul left.  Desperate to get to Inos and restore her to her throne, Rap finds himself playing a cat and mouse game with Kalkor, playing his magical powers off of Kalkor's.  But even if Rap finds an opportunity to escape, how can he find Inos in time to stop her from making a terrible mistake?<br />Perilous Seas is the third book in A Man of His Word series by David Duncan and it is the weakest of the quartet, but it is still superbly written and I still loved most of the characters.  It is true that Inos is kind of grating in this book and that I found myself rushing through her misadventures to get to the better story with Rap, but I like to think that Inos is growing as a character and getting to be more likeable.  Still, it would be great if she dropped that whole I-am-a-princess-and-can't-believe-this-is-happening-to-me attitude.  On the other hand, Rap is a great character who is still humble and completely oblivious to the fact that he doesn't live anything approaching a normal life anymore.  Again, the host of secondary characters are superb and give additional life and sparkle to the third book of the series.  I can't wait to see how it ends!  If you like fantasy books that are just a bit different with clearly defined magical rules and different races set in an intriguing world, don't miss this set of 4 books!uperbly written and I still loved most of the characters.  It is true that Inos is kind of grating in this book and that I found myself rushing through her misadventures to get to the better story with Rap, but I like to think that Inos is growing as a character and getting to be more likeable.  Still, it would be great if she dropped that whole I-am-a-princess-and-can't-believe-this-is-happening-to-me attitude.  On the other hand, Rap is a great character who is still humble and completely oblivious to the fact that he doesn't live anything approaching a normal life anymore.  Again, the host of secondary characters are superb and give additional life and sparkle to the third book of the series.  I can't wait to see how it ends!  If you like fantasy books that are just a bit different with clearly defined magical rules and different races set in an intriguing world, don't miss this set of 4 books!	2004-05-12
US	46905518	R1CYWOHREMRBBA	0399151575	587976494	Naked in Death	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great Start to a New Series by J.D. Robb/Nora Roberts!	Eve Dallas was a New York police lieutenant who was very good at her job - sometimes too good.  She never told anyone how she had nightmares about all of the victims that she was too late to save and she refused to open up to the psychiatrists at the office.  Her last case, where a father hacked up his young daughter into little pieces, continued to haunt her, but, before she had a chance to go in for testing, she was called to work on a priority case with political ramifications.  Turns out an expensive, high-class prostitute was murdered, shot three times with an old gun.  The catch was that the prostitute was the granddaughter of a US senator who wanted the killer caught and the case filed away so that he could concentrate on his political agenda.  Lucky for the victim, Eve doesn't give into political pressure...<br />Eve starts will the prostitute's clients, of which there are many, and find herself questioning Roarke, a mysterious Irish billionaire who had dinner with the victim the night before she died.  Its true that Eve feels an instant physical attraction to Roarke, but she refuses to act on it - she is a professional and she doesn't get involved with suspects.  Pushing her gut instincts about Roarke aside, Eve tries to be objective in her investigation, but the evidence keeps piling up against Roarke.  When two more prostitutes are killed in rapid succession, Eve is under pressure to bring the killer in.  With her career on the line, political pressure from the senator and her superiors, Eve cannot afford to get involved with someone like Roarke.  But how can she ignore the man who makes her feel for the first time in years...?<br />Naked in Death is the first in J.D. Robb/Nora Robert's new In Death series starring Eve Dallas as a police detective.  The mystery was made fresh and new by the author's futuristic setting, where prostitution is legalized and pleasure workers are licensed professionals, guns are obsolete and food is reproduced in a machine, but still familiar and bearing many of the traits that we see in our world today.  I was entertained by the author's attention to detail, such as Eve's problems with her car's heater and addiction to real coffee (which is hideously expensive).  I also really liked the characters - Eve was really tough, but she had lots of weaknesses to keep her human and likeable.  I am interested in learning more about her past and seeing where her relationship goes with Roarke.  Roarke was also a great character with a mysterious past, which I assume will be illuminated throughout the series.  He is rich, knows exactly what he wants and isn't afraid to go out and get it, but he is still insecure.  The mystery was also well written and thought out with plenty of little subplots and red herrings thrown in to keep the reader guessing, however, if you are paying close attention, there are enough clues for you to figure out who killed the women.  Well written, detailed with a solid plot and well-drawn characters, Naked in Death is definitely worth your time to read!t still familiar and bearing many of the traits that we see in our world today.  I was entertained by the author's attention to detail, such as Eve's problems with her car's heater and addiction to real coffee (which is hideously expensive).  I also really liked the characters - Eve was really tough, but she had lots of weaknesses to keep her human and likeable.  I am interested in learning more about her past and seeing where her relationship goes with Roarke.  Roarke was also a great character with a mysterious past, which I assume will be illuminated throughout the series.  He is rich, knows exactly what he wants and isn't afraid to go out and get it, but he is still insecure.  The mystery was also well written and thought out with plenty of little subplots and red herrings thrown in to keep the reader guessing, however, if you are paying close attention, there are enough clues for you to figure out who killed the women.  Well written, detailed with a solid plot and well-drawn characters, Naked in Death is definitely worth your time to read!	2004-05-10
US	46905518	R3RLRYQ50YXNPY	0380780860	2254741	Murder on a Girls' Night Out: A Southern Sisters Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Hilarious Mystery!	Patricia Anne &quot;Mouse&quot; thinks her sister, Mary Alice &quot;Sister&quot; is crazy for buying the Skoot 'n Boot country western bar.  Just because Sister and her current boyfriend like going line dancing there doesn't mean that it will be a sure-fire moneymaker, but, as always, Sister leaps before she looks.  Resigned to going along with Sister's latest crazed venture, Patricia Anne lets herself be dragged out to see the big purchase.  Patricia Anne is pleasantly surprised at the nice building and country decorations - and the kitchen is amazing! - and starts to think that Sister could really make a go of it.  Unfortunately, when they return the next day, they find the previous owner's body stabbed, strangled and dangling in the bar's wishing well.<br />Sheriff Reuse is determined to get to the bottom of the murder and Patricia Anne is all for letting him take care of it, until his prime suspect becomes Henry, one of her best (and favorite) students in all her years of teaching at the local high school.  Its true that Henry's life got a little derailed after he graduated and left for college, but Patricia Anne just knows that Henry couldn't have done it.  So Patricia Anne, despite her husband Fred's warnings to the contrary, stays involved in Sister's country western bar scheme and starts looking for clues.  Along the way, she finds that clues are often found in the places where you least expect to find them - and that even the kindest person can be driven to murder...<br />Murder on a Girl's Night Out is the first in the Southern Sisters mystery series and I have to admit that I laughed out loud several times while reading the book.  The characters are absolutely a scream!  Patricia Anne is sixty, happily married for 40 years with 3 children, all married, a retired school teacher, prim, proper, dainty and petite.  Mary Alice is sixty-five, 250 pounds, a three-time widow who buried all of her husbands next to each other, wealthy, eccentric, and used to getting her own way.  It is true that the mystery wasn't that terribly exciting and that the story had a nice, slow pace to it, but the author still gets five stars for her fabulous characters!  The interaction between the sisters was the highlight of the book and the supporting characters were all very unique and memorable in their own special ways.  If you have a sister you are close to, this book will be just that much more enjoyable, but you don't have to have a sister and you don't have to be old to enjoy this great book!  Anyone, young, old, fat, thin, only child or one of twelve will enjoy this funny mystery!ing her own way.  It is true that the mystery wasn't that terribly exciting and that the story had a nice, slow pace to it, but the author still gets five stars for her fabulous characters!  The interaction between the sisters was the highlight of the book and the supporting characters were all very unique and memorable in their own special ways.  If you have a sister you are close to, this book will be just that much more enjoyable, but you don't have to have a sister and you don't have to be old to enjoy this great book!  Anyone, young, old, fat, thin, only child or one of twelve will enjoy this funny mystery!	2004-05-10
US	46905518	R1Q4DTFDCPTGNT	075990118X	56194588	Captive Hearts	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Decent Romantic Science Fiction Story, But Unoriginal	Morgan Fontinara, crown prince of Bellariss, one of the last free planets in the universe, was finally ready to start the rebellion.  All of his allies were in place and the destruction of the hated Jotnar Alliance, who had enslaved most of the galaxy, was about to begin - when Morgan was betrayed.  Captured by the Jotnar, tortured, humiliated and threatened, Morgan still refused to give the Jotnar information about the Bellariss security system and allow them to take over his home planet.  In desperation, the Jotnar sent Morgan to Cantara, a Jotnar prison planet, where one of their bloodiest and creative torturers, named Grader, would take up the prince's &quot;questioning&quot;...<br />Ariana Zoltan was in charge of the Cantara prison, even though she hated the whole idea of slavery.  She tried to make the prison a little bit more livable for the slaves and the death toll had gone down quite dramatically, but she made a lifelong enemy of Grader in the process.  When Ariana first saw Morgan, she instantly knew that he was Bellarissian with his distinctive bronze coloring and blonde hair, but she had no idea that he was the crown prince and future ruler of that planet.  What she did know is that she couldn't bear to allow Grader to mutilate him and kill him so she took him as her own personal slave.  Morgan and Ariana immediately clashed, with Morgan refusing to believe that anyone who worked for the Jotnar could abhor slavery and Ariana not understanding why Morgan refused to trust her and let her help him.  As they are involved in their own battle of wills, the Bellarissian alliance is moving forward to strike at the heart of the Jotnar empire and Morgan is all too aware that if he doesn't escape soon, he will be killed in the wave of the planned invasion.  However, even though he hates Ariana for placing a slave collar around his neck and branding him, he has mated his soul with hers and cannot leave her behind...<br />I was disappointed in this book because it is essentially a very pale imitation of Justine Davis' Lord of the Storm, which was an excellent romantic science fiction book.  Both of the heroes are beautiful blonds with golden skin, both are collared in slavery, both fall in love with the person who owns them, both are rulers on their homeplanets which are threatened by an evil federation, etc.  If the story has been original, this book may have been worth 4 stars, but the heroine, Ariana, didn't really ring true to me.  I understand that she was forced to serve the Jotnar alliance, but I didn't really believe that she thought of slaves as real people on the same level as herself.  One of the opening scenes shows her sending a slave off to be questioned and tortured and she just kind of shrugs it off with a weak excuse that its not as if she knows him.  Her attitude didn't match what she kept telling Morgan and, to be honest, I wouldn't have trusted her at all if I was in his situation.  Regardless, Morgan was a wonderful character and I tolerated Ariana.  If you are looking for a much better book written by Lissa Michaels, read Real Magic, the story of Drake (Morgan's best friend) and stand-alone sequel to this tale.  The author still has some issues with creating a likeable heroine - but the hero is literally to die for!s essentially a very pale imitation of Justine Davis' Lord of the Storm, which was an excellent romantic science fiction book.  Both of the heroes are beautiful blonds with golden skin, both are collared in slavery, both fall in love with the person who owns them, both are rulers on their homeplanets which are threatened by an evil federation, etc.  If the story has been original, this book may have been worth 4 stars, but the heroine, Ariana, didn't really ring true to me.  I understand that she was forced to serve the Jotnar alliance, but I didn't really believe that she thought of slaves as real people on the same level as herself.  One of the opening scenes shows her sending a slave off to be questioned and tortured and she just kind of shrugs it off with a weak excuse that its not as if she knows him.  Her attitude didn't match what she kept telling Morgan and, to be honest, I wouldn't have trusted her at all if I was in his situation.  Regardless, Morgan was a wonderful character and I tolerated Ariana.  If you are looking for a much better book written by Lissa Michaels, read Real Magic, the story of Drake (Morgan's best friend) and stand-alone sequel to this tale.  The author still has some issues with creating a likeable heroine - but the hero is literally to die for!	2004-05-06
US	46905518	R2UOOD3SI5W07I	0759901198	432305342	Real Magic	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Romantic Science Fiction!	Jelena was stunned when she found her new nevash (ward) in a backwater planet in the middle of nowhere.  There had to be some mistake!  There was no way that Drake 'The Magician' Durand, infamous assassin and head of the ruthless assassin's guild, could warrant the protection of the Gods.  Jelena was a Nar'gadesh, however, descended from the ancient lines of the Nar'galia, a people who had descended into myth and legend centuries ago and was determined to see her wardship through, even if she had to keep herself from killing the frustrating, stubborn man!<br />Drake was amused by the small blonde and irritated to discover that she was the first woman he was attracted to since Zanera, a blonde who had about killed him 2 years past.  If only Jelena didn't keep insisting that she was a Nar'gadesh - everyone knew that the legendary magicians didn't really exist.  After all, if there really was a race blessed by the gods to protect and watch out for everyone else in the universe, where had they been when the evil Jotnar enslaved half the galaxy!  Still, no matter what Drake did, he couldn't shake the tenacious Jelena, so he did his best to ignore her...<br />The longer Jelena was around Drake, the more confused she became.  How could she have feelings for someone who was no better than a hired murderer?  As Drake continues to hunt down the remaining leaders of the now deposed Jotnar Alliance, Jelena keeps getting in his way and questioning his motives.  Drake could explain things to Jelena - he could explain this his own father, Threaden, is the one he is currently hunting for selling the Bellarrisian prince to the Jotnar, for beating him when he was a child, for offering to give Drake's life in exchange for release from a prison planet - but he wants Jelena to have faith in him and to see him as he truly is, instead of what his reputation purports him to be.  However, as Drake searches deeper and deeper into his past to find Threaden, he discovers that maybe he doesn't even know who he is anymore...<br />This is a wonderful romantic science fiction story with likeable characters and plenty of action.  Drake was just a gorgeous hero that I totally fell in love with.  He is one of those seemingly bad boys with a heart of gold and he really gave Jelena a run for her money.  I liked Jelena, too, but wish she hadn't been so stubborn as she really caused Drake a lot of problems in the book.  Sometimes I couldn't really figure out what Drake saw in her, but she got better.  The world was well drawn with plenty of alien races and captivating worlds.  The supporting characters were also well done and I found myself caring a great deal for them as well.  I am hoping that the author will do some more books in the Nar'galia world as it was fascinating to learn about the Guardians and the Executioners and I would love to know more!  Real Magic is the stand-alone sequel to Captive Hearts.  I must admit that I enjoyed this book much more than the first one so I am glad that I kept up with the series.  I am hoping that we get Galen's story next!  If you are looking for a promising new author of romantic science fiction, I think that you will enjoy this one!even know who he is anymore...<br />This is a wonderful romantic science fiction story with likeable characters and plenty of action.  Drake was just a gorgeous hero that I totally fell in love with.  He is one of those seemingly bad boys with a heart of gold and he really gave Jelena a run for her money.  I liked Jelena, too, but wish she hadn't been so stubborn as she really caused Drake a lot of problems in the book.  Sometimes I couldn't really figure out what Drake saw in her, but she got better.  The world was well drawn with plenty of alien races and captivating worlds.  The supporting characters were also well done and I found myself caring a great deal for them as well.  I am hoping that the author will do some more books in the Nar'galia world as it was fascinating to learn about the Guardians and the Executioners and I would love to know more!  Real Magic is the stand-alone sequel to Captive Hearts.  I must admit that I enjoyed this book much more than the first one so I am glad that I kept up with the series.  I am hoping that we get Galen's story next!  If you are looking for a promising new author of romantic science fiction, I think that you will enjoy this one!	2004-05-06
US	46905518	RY0Y1OTVOVT03	1591050480	555718877	Beloved Stranger	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Good Book, But Kind of Disjointed	Sarah MacMillan just wanted to forget.  To forget that she worked for an antiques firm that was laundering money, forget that her ex-boyfriend had left the country so he wouldn't be convicted of drug charges, forget that she didn't really have enough money to renovate the house she purchased.  She loved the house in Harrison Corners, a small town in the Ontario woods and was determined to fix up the small lakeside cabin for her brother, Michael, who was paralyzed in a motorcycle accident.  Sarah was happy just to work on renovations and dream of her new antique shop she planned on until Pierre Martin walked into her life.<br />Pierre Martin was determined to wipe drugs off the street - no matter what it took.  After losing his beloved wife, Sue, in a drug hostage situation gone wrong, Pierre felt he had nothing left to live for.  He was so close to busting up a big drug ring and then he could take a break.  At first, Pierre thought that Sarah was involved.  After all, with her background and her purchase of a house that had a reputation as a drug house, it just couldn't be a coincidence.  However, the more Pierre gets to know her, the more convinced he is that she has nothing to with drugs - but there is something about her...<br />Sarah felt that she knew Pierre somehow, even though she knows that they have never met.  When she starts having strange dreams and hearing someone talking in her room, Pierre tries to tell her that it is just stress.  But then she finds the diary hidden up in the chimney and discovers the story of her ancestor, Captain George MacMillan, Queen's Volunteer Cavalry, who disappeared in 1838, leaving his wife and child behind.  No one knows exactly what happened to George, but there is a rumor that he ran off with a woman he met during the war named Isabelle.  Determined to figure out just what is going on, Sarah heads for Quebec and starts digging for clues, only to discover that Pierre is a descendant of Isabelle.  The more Sarah investigates, the more mysteries come to light - what happened to George? how are Pierre's distant cousins involved? who else knows the story of George and Isabelle? why are women being attacked and murdered who have vital information for Sarah?  As Sarah struggles with her feelings for Pierre, she also must come to believe that life and love come when you least expect it...<br />Beloved Stranger started off well, with a definite story line and strong characterization.  I liked both Sarah and Pierre and thought that their romance would be one of those star-crossed lovers who have another chance at love type stories, but instead it turned into this weird, convoluted plot that wandered all over the place.  First, there was the drug plot - Pierre believed Sarah was innocent, cleared her and was able to get her to forgive him despite her abhorrence of anything involving deception.  Then her grandfather dies and her brother, Michael, says he doesn't want to live with her and moves off into his own life.  Sarah feels guilty and them moves on.  Then, Sarah goes on to investigating the disappearance of George, but Pierre doesn't believe in reincarnation and resists the feeing that they know each other with Sarah diving into things headlong.  So she finally persuades him that this is really happening and to take some chances and then she decides that she just can't handle falling in love with someone who is a cop and doesn't want him to investigate or take risks and do anything. Then the wicked cousins come in and we have to figure out why people are dying or being attacked and how they are involved and work through that and then all of a sudden everything is great and we live happily ever after.  It isn't necessarily bad to have so many plotlets running if they are tied together, but I felt the author introduced something, solved it, dumped it, introduced a character, used them for a brief moment or to create an argument, then they disappeared.  I think the author was just trying tokeep the story going so that it would be longer, but I was just so tired of hearing this argument then that one and then he doesn't want her and then she doesn't want him and on and on - just end it already!  I just didn't have the patience to wade through all of the other stuff that the author threw into the story, taking it from a simple story about reincarnated lovers into this whole sprawling, wandering story that took forever to end with characters that I had long since ceased to care for, but still couldn't stop because I had suffered this far and deserved closure.  Luckily, I bought it in ebook format so I didn't have to pay as much!  Still, despite the saggy plot, I did give the book 3 stars for starting off well and having a nice writing style - bottom line, if there is nothing else to read, go for it, otherwise skippable.o keep the story going so that it would be longer, but I was just so tired of hearing this argument then that one and then he doesn't want her and then she doesn't want him and on and on - just end it already!  I just didn't have the patience to wade through all of the other stuff that the author threw into the story, taking it from a simple story about reincarnated lovers into this whole sprawling, wandering story that took forever to end with characters that I had long since ceased to care for, but still couldn't stop because I had suffered this far and deserved closure.  Luckily, I bought it in ebook format so I didn't have to pay as much!  Still, despite the saggy plot, I did give the book 3 stars for starting off well and having a nice writing style - bottom line, if there is nothing else to read, go for it, otherwise skippable.	2004-04-29
US	46905518	ROTM62UUBL8LY	1587492245	293782430	Spirit Singer	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Fine Young Adult Fantasy	Amarynth was training to be the next Spirit Singer when her grandfather, the Spirit Singer of Covedrift, her small village, was suddenly taken by the Beast.  Without full training, Amarynth could not sing the souls of the dead through the Between World to the Upper World, where all good souls found rest - let alone face the terrible Beast who had ripped her grandfather's soul from his body.  She had no choice but to leave her small village and seek aid from another Spirit Singer until she could complete her training.<br />Amarynth did not expect to find the nearest village of Cragshadow in turmoil and in desperate need of her help, though.  She quickly discovered that her village's remote location had kept them protected from the Wanderers - the Spirit Singers who were assigned to villages by the King and who did not care for the people.  Their wills were enforced by the Black Guards, relentless human-like beings who never slept or ate and never let their prey go.  Amarynth did her best to escape their notice, but even with the help of Kalar, the innkeeper's son, she was unable to escape and found herself bound for The City of Havenheart to face King Ar-Naathon.<br />Amarynth was sure that she would be killed or imprisoned as soon as she arrived at the City, but she found herself enjoying the luxury of palace life and reveling in the company of the handsome Prince Ka-Raamon.  She was quickly reminded of her prisoner status, however, when the King tried to turn her into a Wanderer and give her soul to the Beast.  Once again Kalar, who followed her to the City, helped her escape, but the Prince wasn't about to let her out of his sight and so Amarynth found herself searching the Haunted Range with two boys who hated each other while she hunted for the Spirit Singer who could help her defeat the Beast...<br />This is a fine fantasy novel for young adults with an interesting plot line and a well-developed world, but I thought that the characterization was a bit lacking.  I found that I didn't really care what happened to the characters in the book, but I did want to know how everything ended.  I didn't really connect with Amarynth, the main character, and found myself wondering what was so fabulous about her that both Kalar and the Prince fell in love with her and were competing for her affections.  I also couldn't really understand Kalar's motivation in following Amarynth to the City, I know that he wanted to avenge his father's death, but he attached to Amarynth almost immediately, despite his protestations to the contrary.  Still, characterization aside, the author has a nice, smooth writing style with good descriptions and explanations of the world that he created.  Hopefully Edward Willett will keep writing and will be able to match some enjoyable characters with his good plots!I found that I didn't really care what happened to the characters in the book, but I did want to know how everything ended.  I didn't really connect with Amarynth, the main character, and found myself wondering what was so fabulous about her that both Kalar and the Prince fell in love with her and were competing for her affections.  I also couldn't really understand Kalar's motivation in following Amarynth to the City, I know that he wanted to avenge his father's death, but he attached to Amarynth almost immediately, despite his protestations to the contrary.  Still, characterization aside, the author has a nice, smooth writing style with good descriptions and explanations of the world that he created.  Hopefully Edward Willett will keep writing and will be able to match some enjoyable characters with his good plots!	2004-04-29
US	46905518	R1ADQ797VLNIF1	0812502973	284417333	The Coelura	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A Charming Little Tale By a Great Author!	Lady Caissa, heir to the Ambassador of the Federated Sentient Planets to the world Demeathorn, has had duty and loyalty drilled into her since she was a young girl.  Her father expects her to follow his dictates unquestioningly, even though Caissa has long since passed her childhood and is now ready for her first marriage contract.  For the first time, Caissa rebels against her father's wishes and refuses to marry the boorish Gustin, heir to the Cavernus fortune and a good political ally for her father.  Caissa's father doesn't understand why she cannot just endure the year-long contract marriage, beget a child and be done with it, but Caissa's heart rebels at such a cold-blooded contract.  Upset and unsure of what she will do, Caissa decides to take her cruiser for a spin and hopefully hunt off some of her frustration.<br />Before too long Caissa realizes that she foolishly forgot to check her cruiser's solar panels and that she will run out of power before she can return to the city.  She intends to fly back as far as she can and then camp and wait for the sun's rise the next day when she picks up a weak distress signal coming from the forbidden zone.  When she responds, she finds the most beautiful man she has ever seen.  Murell doesn't trust her, but he is wounded and his antique flyer is beyond his repair skills.  Despite some suspicion on both sides, they soon find that there is a strong, instantaneous attraction between them, but what kind of future can they have?  Caissa dares to dream that somehow, someway they can be together for longer, but when Murell discovers who her father is, he leaves.  For Murell knows that Caissa's father will do anything to capture one of the elusive, mythical coelura - the very creatures that he has sworn to protect...<br />The Coelura is a wonderful little story by a talented author.  It is only 150 pages and the type is quite large, but I felt that I knew the characters quite well and the plot was simple enough that there were no loose ends left at the ending.  However, I did feel that the story could have been fleshed out into a full-size novel and felt cheated at the brevity of the tale because I did like the characters and would have enjoyed learning more about the planet and its customs.  Still, McCaffrey is a skillful author that I always enjoy reading and the book has several wonderful black and white drawings to go along with the text, which I really enjoyed.  This book would be a good science fiction novel to start off teen readers or for older readers who are just looking for a short, simple tale to pass the time.no loose ends left at the ending.  However, I did feel that the story could have been fleshed out into a full-size novel and felt cheated at the brevity of the tale because I did like the characters and would have enjoyed learning more about the planet and its customs.  Still, McCaffrey is a skillful author that I always enjoy reading and the book has several wonderful black and white drawings to go along with the text, which I really enjoyed.  This book would be a good science fiction novel to start off teen readers or for older readers who are just looking for a short, simple tale to pass the time.	2004-04-29
US	46905518	R1I584A2STU2T9	1591051258	894895993	Purrfect Justice	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Mediocre - Kind of a Waste of Time	Haley Yates was devastated when a freak accident destroyed her chances of becoming a police officer like the rest of her family.  Forced to resign from the police academy, Haley became an office worker at the Fort Lauderdale precinct and aims to become the next office manager.  She knows that no one takes beautiful women seriously, so she dresses very professionally, in boxy, business-like suits, scrapes her hair back in a French twist and hides behind her coke-bottle glasses.  But she is determined to turn over a new leaf on Halloween and wears her new contact lenses to the staff party, where she is dressed as a very sexy catwoman.  Haley is hoping to catch the eye of Cole Fischer, a policeman who caught her eye when he transferred to the Fort Lauderdale force two years before.  Unfortunately, Cole doesn't even know that Haley exists...<br />Until he sees her in her body hugging leotard and half mask at the party!  Cole is instantly drawn to the playfully sensuous catwoman and spends the evening by her side.  However, he never gets her name and leaves the party without knowing who she is.  Confident that he can track her down, Cole is surprised when his beautiful Catwoman shows up to save him from a thief who is determined to get away - even if he has to kill a policeman to do it.  More attracted to his Catwoman than ever, Cole starts checking out every female in the department, but he never gives Haley a second glance.  Haley is certain that Cole would be bitterly disappointed if he ever discovered that she was the Catwoman that he fell in love with so she hides her identity and goes to great lengths to keep her identity a secret.  If she could only force herself to stay away from him, he would never know...<br />I thought that this book was pretty mediocre and felt that I was wasting my time reading it.  I was looking for a light-hearted romance to pass the time and instead I ended up with this ridiculous piece of fluff.  Granted, I knew that the whole premise was complete fantasy from the moment I picked it up, but I was kind of hoping for a more female superhero angle than a policeman suddenly turning into a victim who constantly needs rescuing.  Haley's self doubts were pretty lame and she never did overcome them while Cole was stupid enough not to notice all of the clues that Haley left him to tell her true identity - what kind of policeman are we talking about here, anyway?  The whole story just got pushed over the top when Cole's father, a top-notch toilet salesman, showed up in town towards the end.  The author got some cheap laughs from making potty jokes, but it wasn't enough to turn this book into a campy, fun story or a romantic comedy for me.  Also, the romantic quality was definitely lacking for me here - the main characters kissed and flirted a bit, but there was really no attraction between them.  Poor characterization, a wandering, forgettable plot and a lackluster romance had me rating this book lower than 2 stars, but at least the author can write without grammatical errors and spelling mistakes, so I gave her points for that (and I liked Linnea Sinclair's cover!).as complete fantasy from the moment I picked it up, but I was kind of hoping for a more female superhero angle than a policeman suddenly turning into a victim who constantly needs rescuing.  Haley's self doubts were pretty lame and she never did overcome them while Cole was stupid enough not to notice all of the clues that Haley left him to tell her true identity - what kind of policeman are we talking about here, anyway?  The whole story just got pushed over the top when Cole's father, a top-notch toilet salesman, showed up in town towards the end.  The author got some cheap laughs from making potty jokes, but it wasn't enough to turn this book into a campy, fun story or a romantic comedy for me.  Also, the romantic quality was definitely lacking for me here - the main characters kissed and flirted a bit, but there was really no attraction between them.  Poor characterization, a wandering, forgettable plot and a lackluster romance had me rating this book lower than 2 stars, but at least the author can write without grammatical errors and spelling mistakes, so I gave her points for that (and I liked Linnea Sinclair's cover!).	2004-04-29
US	46905518	RI3MMTP23S2GI	038081479X	969944777	Heart of a Warrior (Ly-San-Ter Family)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A Lackluster Addition to a Great Series	Brittany Callaghan was instantly drawn to the gorgeous 7-foot tall stranger when she saw him.  Being 6-foot herself, she had a difficult time finding men to date.  She also had a difficult time letting go and so found herself a virgin at the age of 28.  But when she spotted the sexy foreigner, Brittany found herself wondering what he would be like as a lover.  Unfortunately, the stranger disappeared before Brittany could find out anything about him...only to reappear out of thin air in her living room a day later!<br />Dalden Ly-San-Ter, a Sha-Ka'an warrior, was determined to hunt down Jorren, his family's enemy who had come to Earth with mind-altering weapons to conquer the planet.  He never planned on getting distracted by a beautiful Earth woman who thought he was a foreigner visiting the US for the first time.  However, Dalden soon found that he couldn't bear to part with Brittany, even when he had captured Jorren - so he took her with him.  Too bad Dalden couldn't get Brittany to believe that his spaceship was real, or that he was a real warrior, or that they were really on their way to his home planet...<br />Heart of a Warrior is the story of Shanelle's (Keeper of the Heart) brother and continues the tale of the Ly-San-Ter family.  I read Keeper of the Heart first and found that I understood everything fine without reading the first book in the series called Warrior's Woman, but I have to admit that the background was helpful here in Heart of a Warrior because Dalden and Brittany were all over the galaxy.  Still, I don't think that you need to read any of the other books to understand what is going on.  That aside, this book has to be my least favorite in the series so far due to the boredom factor.  It started off well, but as soon as we got to the good part - where Brittany flew off into space with Dalden - it fell apart.  For the remaining 2/3rds of the book, Brittany refuses to believe that anything that is happening to her is real and that it is all some elaborate hoax, despite tons of evidence to the contrary.  I liked Brittany and Dalden, but I just didn't feel that the chemistry was as heated between the two of them as some of Johanna Lindsey's other characters.  I guess my main complaint is just that I expect more from this author than I received here.  If you really want to read it, find a copy at your local library or borrow it from a friend who was unfortunate enough to pay money for it.  It is still a pretty fun, fast read, but definitely nothing memorable.me elaborate hoax, despite tons of evidence to the contrary.  I liked Brittany and Dalden, but I just didn't feel that the chemistry was as heated between the two of them as some of Johanna Lindsey's other characters.  I guess my main complaint is just that I expect more from this author than I received here.  If you really want to read it, find a copy at your local library or borrow it from a friend who was unfortunate enough to pay money for it.  It is still a pretty fun, fast read, but definitely nothing memorable.	2004-04-21
US	46905518	RA69NQDG71U7J	0689809859	313227567	Marie: An Invitation to Dance, Paris, 1775, Book 1 (Girlhood Journeys)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Charming Look at Pre-Revolutionary France	Marie lives for her dance lessons with Gabrielle and dreams of becoming a ballerina, but without a rich patron to pay for more lessons, she knows that her dream will never come true.  She tries to be like her happy-go-lucky friend Joelle and go along with her parents' plans to send her to a convent to learn homemaking skills and prepare for her eventual marriage, but she knows that it will break her heart.  Instead, she turns to Prudence, an artist who has come to stay at her family's pension (boarding house) in Paris.  Prudence is from the American colonies and encourages Marie to reach for her dream.  However, Marie is forced to look outside of her own problems as students and poor people begin to riot for flour in the streets.  Her friend Joelle's bakery is broken into and their money stolen - how can the king and queen allow this to happen?  Don't they care about their own people?  As Marie continues to search for a way to become a dancer, she also starts to grow up and look outside of her own troubles and see what is going on around her.<br />This is a charming look at Paris, France in 1775, right before the revolution began.  Marie is a typical young girl who is very worried about her own life and sees everything else as being peripheral and unimportant, but she does come to see outside of her family life in the story.  She also learns that she can make people happy with her dancing and that she can share her talent for it whether she is a professional dancer or not.  I think that most young girls will identify with Marie and will enjoy this story.  It is a nice challenge for readers starting to get into chapter books, but at 71 pages, with large type, it will be a fun, easy read for more experienced readers.  It is true that some of the conversations are a little stilted as the author tries to work in more historical background, but at least children are learning history while they are reading.  There are full color illustrations scattered throughout the text, as well as a pronunciation guide for the few French words used in the story.  Printed on glossy paper with a nice finish, this book is sure to appeal to fans of the popular American Girl series., as well as a pronunciation guide for the few French words used in the story.  Printed on glossy paper with a nice finish, this book is sure to appeal to fans of the popular American Girl series.	2004-03-30
US	46905518	R3RX5AMUBUGLZB	0743480554	456974695	Florida Getaway (CSI: Miami, No. 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable CSI Mystery	Gil Grissom was furious that his forensic evidence had been thrown out in court.  If Greg Sanders hadn't been on vacation when the evidence was processed there would be no question that Thomas Lessor, a Boyle Hotels executive, would even now be in jail awaiting his sentencing.  As it was, Grissom had to watch Lessor fly away, effectively getting away with the murder of Erica Hardy, his mistress, for the time being.  However, a short time later, Grissom had the evidence that he needed to bring Lessor back to Las Vegas so they called the Miami-Dade police.<br />Lieutenant Horatio Caine was at a murder scene when Catherine Willows called to ask him to go pick up Lessor.  A limousine chauffer was tied up with duct tape and left in the trunk, where he asphyxiated.  Leaving a few members of his crew at the crime scene, Horatio continued to The Conquistador, where Lessor was supposed to be staying.  Problem was, Lessor never showed up from the airport.  Horatio had a sinking feeling that Lessor and his chauffer were linked.  He had proof when they found the remains of Lessor's body, buried in garbage bags on a beach.  Now Horatio was left with two bodies, an ambitious lounge singer with Mob connections, and three aging hitmen - all he had to do was connect the dots....<br />This is the first book that Max Allan Collins has written with the CSI: Miami team, although he has written several with the CSI: Las Vegas team.  Although I did not feel that it was as good as the others he has written, it was still very well written and highly entertaining.  It was a bit longer and more drawn out than the other stories, which read just like a TV episode would, and I kept trying to map out how they would cover all of the information in one episode and they simply couldn't.  I was also a bit disappointed that all of the action focused on Horatio and that his team didn't play into it a bit more, but the TV show can get like that a bit too.  Also, I felt that, for being so drawn out, it sure ended abruptly.  I would have liked to see a tighter middle section of the plot and a smoother ending, but those are my only real complaints as, on the whole, it is fast paced, very descriptive and an interesting read.  If you are a CSI fan and love to read, then this is a great book for you!ure ended abruptly.  I would have liked to see a tighter middle section of the plot and a smoother ending, but those are my only real complaints as, on the whole, it is fast paced, very descriptive and an interesting read.  If you are a CSI fan and love to read, then this is a great book for you!	2004-03-16
US	46905518	R2U6DU3IFOFVDN	0671014935	636329172	Likely to Die (Alexandra Cooper Mysteries)	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Another Great Mystery in the Alexandra Cooper Series!	Alexandra Cooper, head of New York County's Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit, hadn't been involved in a major case since her actress friend was murdered six months previous so she was a little surprised when Detective Mike Chapman woke her at 5:30 am about a new case.  Turns out Gemma Dogan, head of neurosurgery at Mid-Manhattan Medical Center, brain surgeon and professor for the prestigious hospital was found stabbed six times in her office.  It also appeared as if she had been raped and then left for dead.  Alexandra was a little uncomfortable with the comparisons to her own personal life, or lack thereof, and put all of her energy into finding out who hated Gemma enough to do this to her.<br />Unfortunately, Alexandra soon finds herself with a long list of suspects.  There is John DuPre and Coleman Harper, both neurologists who claim to have evidence regarding the murder, but details of their interviews conflict and don't quite add up.  There is William Dietrich, the director of the hospital, who is desperate to clean up the hospital's public image.  Then there are the many applicants for Mid-Manhattan's neurology unit that Gemma denied.  Failing those, there are the hundreds of homeless people who live in the tunnels and basements of the hospital and wander about at will, including one that is know simply as 'Pops' who was found wearing scrubs covered in human blood.  As Alexandra sifts through one lead after another, she uncovers a lot more dirty secrets at Mid-Manhattan, secrets that someone will do anything to keep hidden...<br />Likely to Die is the second book in the Alexandra Cooper series (after Final Jeopardy) and I enjoyed it just as much.  I love the way Fairstein accurately portrays the ins and outs of the judiciary system and police methods.  Alexandra doesn't just drop everything to take on this case, she has many other cases that she is supervising and advising and it is interesting to follow her throughout her day as she preps witnesses and aids her fellow prosecutors.  I also enjoyed the banter between Alexandra and Mike, especially their bets on the Jeopardy games.  I really felt like I was reading a book about what it is like to work in the Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit in New York.  I loved the author's attention to detail and clear, crisp writing style.  Definitely an author that I will keep reading.fellow prosecutors.  I also enjoyed the banter between Alexandra and Mike, especially their bets on the Jeopardy games.  I really felt like I was reading a book about what it is like to work in the Sex Crimes Prosecution Unit in New York.  I loved the author's attention to detail and clear, crisp writing style.  Definitely an author that I will keep reading.	2004-03-16
US	46905518	R1B2ZL939NDKU4	061821612X	197311664	Hooway for Wodney Wat	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Laugh Out Loud Hilarious!	Poor Rodney Rat cannot say his r's so he sounds like Wodney Wat.  What is even worse is that he is a rodent, a wodent.  All the kids at school know that Wodney has this problem and purposely ask him questions that involve r's - like how does a train travel?  To which Wodney is miserably forced to answer \\"a twain twavels on twain twacks.\\"  His fellow classmates aren't mean to Wodney, but he is not included in games and has become terribly shy, hiding in his jacket most of the time and keeping to himself.  But then something happened that drew all of the students' attention away from Wodney, or rather, someone.  Camilla Capybara burst into the classroom and pronounced that she was bigger than anyone, she was meaner than anyone and she was smarter than anyone.  So there.  Camilla quickly proved that she was right, as she trampled the kids on the way to the playground and answered questions in class before they were answered.  When Wodney found out that he was to be the leader for the class' game of Simons Says, he was terrified.  What would Camilla do when she heard him speak?  What ensues will have children laughing out loud as Wodney unwitting becomes a hero and saves his whole class from the fearsome Camilla.<br />I simply love this book and every time I read it to my nephews, I laugh.  It is a great book to read aloud to children and is just the perfect length, not too long so that the children lose interest, but not too short to where you have to read another one.  The illustrations are charming and the text is fabulous!  This book quickly became a favorite in my house and I am sure that your children will love it, too.  Anytime we are feeling down or picked upon for something that we do differently, we read this book to help remind the kids that sometimes what others perceive as weaknesses can turn out to be strengths.	2004-03-04
US	46905518	R3U42KIAPSZJ17	1587491966	350158413	Janus is a Two-Headed God	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Promising Beginning, But Petered Out at the End...	In 2105 there was the great migration when billions of people left Earth to make their home among the stars.  Since then, there has been little contact between the Terrans, those who remained on Earth, and the stardwellers, who formed the Galactic Core Coalition (GCC).  In 2452, Sophia 'Sam' McLaren, was content to let it stay that way.  She knew that she could never be happy in space, where people didn't like to have connections to the land and had strange rules and traditions.  But there was her brother, Martin 'Mart' McLaren, to consider.  He was 18, but, due to his having Beta-Siwinski Disease, he had episodes where he acted like a child or went into a coma-like state.  When Fredd Desilva first showed up in Greater Missouri with his offer to travel to Xaspaar, the home planet of the GCC, Sam rejected his offer immediately - until she discovered that Mart could be cured there.<br />Before she knew it, Sam was in a spaceship, sicker than a dog, on her way to the far distant planet of Xaspaar.  There she discovered that it was against the law to have long hair, daily refreshment breaks included food and sex, so-called primitive prejudices still existed among the different races of aliens, and citizens could not leave the city to view the countryside.  Sam felt stifled and confused with all of the new city rules and JorVaal 5 Lanquist, the premier GCC leader, wasn't helping her any!  When she requested a moment of JorVaal's time, he thought she wanted to share his bed!  With one misunderstanding happening after another, Sam didn't think she would ever be able to get on JorVaal's good side.  Trying to convince herself that she didn't care if JorVaal liked her or not, since long-term marriages didn't exist on Xaspaar anyway, Sam tried to focus on the problems at hand - keeping her brother under control and trying to figure out why the unsettling Uortzks, the previously dominant species in that sector of space, were sabotaging their own sun...<br />I was really excited to read this book at first, as I love space opera and think that it is great to have a romantic subplot to a fine science fiction plot, but this book went downhill when Sam arrived on Xaspaar.  The author lost all sense of the science fiction story and pushed that plot far to the side as she focused entirely on the romance between Sam and JorVaal.  This wouldn't have been so bad if it was a good romance, but it was one of those sappy romance stories where the two people are stubborn and stupid and refuse to talk or see anything outside of their own point of view.  They keep having the same arguments over and over again, without ever making any progress and then, suddenly, at the end, all of these compromises and concessions are made and they live happily ever after.  Right.  Anyway, the author did get points for creating a new world and populating it with some interesting aliens, of which I would have enjoyed reading a lot more about, and there was a rather interesting sabotage story running underneath it all, but the author gave it away too early in the story for there to be any real mystery.  Still, the book was well written and the author had some nice descriptions, I would like to see her write something that stretches her talents and calls for more than just a tepid sci-fi/romance.to read this book at first, as I love space opera and think that it is great to have a romantic subplot to a fine science fiction plot, but this book went downhill when Sam arrived on Xaspaar.  The author lost all sense of the science fiction story and pushed that plot far to the side as she focused entirely on the romance between Sam and JorVaal.  This wouldn't have been so bad if it was a good romance, but it was one of those sappy romance stories where the two people are stubborn and stupid and refuse to talk or see anything outside of their own point of view.  They keep having the same arguments over and over again, without ever making any progress and then, suddenly, at the end, all of these compromises and concessions are made and they live happily ever after.  Right.  Anyway, the author did get points for creating a new world and populating it with some interesting aliens, of which I would have enjoyed reading a lot more about, and there was a rather interesting sabotage story running underneath it all, but the author gave it away too early in the story for there to be any real mystery.  Still, the book was well written and the author had some nice descriptions, I would like to see her write something that stretches her talents and calls for more than just a tepid sci-fi/romance.	2004-03-02
US	46905518	R67VO78IGTYQX	0743471652	385467901	Tinker	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Absolutely Wonderful - I Loved It!	It's shutdown time again and part of the city of Pittsburgh has once again been returned to Earth.  For most of the year, it resides on the planet of Elfhome or the Faerie World where all of the human inhabitants have come to rely on magic instead of science.  Most elves were not really interested in the short lived humans and none of them wanted to be stuck on Earth during shutdown time, even though it was only for 24 hours.  That is why it was so unusual to see an elf running through Tinker's scrapyard.  Tinker immediately recognized him as Windwolf, the elf who had saved her life several years ago.  Windwolf placed what Tinker assumed was a life debt on her and who knew how that linked them together?  Fearing that, if Windwolf died, she would die, Tinker heroically battles the terrifying wargs and manages to get rid of them, but Windwolf is gravely wounded.  With no magic to heal him, Tinker must use all of her scientific know how and intrinsic genius to get him through the rest of Shutdown.  Unfortunately, Tinker's problems don't end when she is finally able to get Windwolf to an elvish hospital...<br />Tinker and her cousin Oilcan are attacked by some random suits who try to kill Windwolf and any witnesses to the attack.  Then there is the NSA and EIA, both organizations very curious as to what is going on in the elvish power structure and wanting to know a little bit more information about the scientific genius who just happens to be Tinker.  Turns out that the feds have finally caught up with her and know that she has the mental ability to construct another gate, like the gate that links Earth to Elfhome.  But humans aren't the only ones who know that Tinker has this ability - the oni, or Japanese demons, are determined to conquer Earth &amp; Elfhome and are trying to use Tinker to do it!  Windwolf is determined to protect Tinker from these people, but Tinker isn't sure if she agrees with his methods.  After all, wasn't turning her into an elf and marrying her a little too drastic?  Perhaps they should get to know one another first, like a date or something...<br />Tinker was an absolutely wonderful romantic fantasy that was also refreshingly original.  I love Wen Spencer's Ukiah Oregon series and so was thrilled when I saw that she was writing something new because I knew that it would be different and I knew that I would love it!  Tinker is such a great heroine - she is young and has many flaws and has a lot of growing up to do, but she is also very mature in some ways and a very smart, eccentric genius.  I know that many readers have complained about the hero, Windwolf, in that he seems to perfect, but, heck, so long as we're going to be reading fantasy, lets go all the way!  I loved him as a hero and thought that he matched Tinker perfectly.  The villains were suitably evil and thus worthy of hatred and yet, you still felt sorry for them and could understand their motives.  The plot is very fast paced and I just gobbled this book up - I couldn't put it down!  If you haven't read Wen Spencer before, what are you waiting for?  She is fabulous!r a little too drastic?  Perhaps they should get to know one another first, like a date or something...<br />Tinker was an absolutely wonderful romantic fantasy that was also refreshingly original.  I love Wen Spencer's Ukiah Oregon series and so was thrilled when I saw that she was writing something new because I knew that it would be different and I knew that I would love it!  Tinker is such a great heroine - she is young and has many flaws and has a lot of growing up to do, but she is also very mature in some ways and a very smart, eccentric genius.  I know that many readers have complained about the hero, Windwolf, in that he seems to perfect, but, heck, so long as we're going to be reading fantasy, lets go all the way!  I loved him as a hero and thought that he matched Tinker perfectly.  The villains were suitably evil and thus worthy of hatred and yet, you still felt sorry for them and could understand their motives.  The plot is very fast paced and I just gobbled this book up - I couldn't put it down!  If you haven't read Wen Spencer before, what are you waiting for?  She is fabulous!	2004-01-29
US	46905518	R2F407I6C23NT7	1892065002	443799825	Plan B	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Absolutely Wonderful - I Loved It!	Val Con yos'Phelium is future Delm and member of Clan Korval of Liad, lately deadly agent of change for the Department of the Interior.  The only thing that saved his sanity was the loving song of his lifemate, Miri Robertson, half-Terran, half-Liaden former mercenary.  When last we left Val Con and Miri (in Carpe Diem), they had just commandeered a spaceship and escaped a backwards world.  While they were stranded, Nova yos'Galan, First Speaker of Korval, invoked Plan B - retreat strategically, trust no one, prepare for all-out war.<br />Val Con and Miri know that the Department of the Interior will still be hunting them so they flee to Lytaxin and Miri's kin.  Val Con knows that Miri fears meeting her newly discovered family, but he needs a safe meeting place where his brother and sisters can find him.  Unfortunately, the planet Lytaxin, home of Clan Erob, Korval's longtime allies, is not what one would exactly call a safe place for the bloodthirsty Yxtrang are attacking.  Within a day of their landing, Val Con and Miri are stranded planetside once again with no ship, no radio comm, but a slightly better chance of survival.  Luckily, some mercenaries from Miri's old unit were stranded on Lytaxin as well, so she takes up her old Captain's duties and trains volunteers and recruits to meet the enemy.  Meanwhile, Shan yos'Galan, Val Con's brother and his lifemate, Priscilla (met in Conflict of Honors), are searching the galaxy for Val Con, as are Nova yos'Galan, his sister, and his Clutch brothers, Edger and Sheather.  But finding Val Con quickly becomes one of a number of problems as they deal with espionage onboard the Dutiful Passage, Shan's ship, attempts to murder Nova, and the seemingly impenetrable Yxtrang ring around the planet Lytaxin.  However, Clan Korval is nothing if not resourceful and, as all the family pits their formidable intelligence and skills against their various foes, one almost feels pity for the enemy...<br />Plan B is the 6th book in the Liaden series if you read the series chronologically.  As with the other books, I simply loved Lee &amp; Miller's characters and world building.  They spend time on the details and it shows that they have carefully thought out and executed another masterpiece.  I really feel as if I know the Korval family and am taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written!  If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more!  You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would not recommend it as you will miss a lot of background and spend the first part of the book just trying to keep track of who everyone is.  Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!en series if you read the series chronologically.  As with the other books, I simply loved Lee &amp; Miller's characters and world building.  They spend time on the details and it shows that they have carefully thought out and executed another masterpiece.  I really feel as if I know the Korval family and am taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written!  If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more!  You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would not recommend it as you will miss a lot of background and spend the first part of the book just trying to keep track of who everyone is.  Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!	2004-01-29
US	46905518	RDOK62P3FNKU0	0441009913	503567702	Agent of Change	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Absolutely Riveting - I Loved It!	Val Con yos'Phelium, Clan Korval, future Delm and Second Speaker, was just doing a routine mission on some backwater planet in the middle of the universe when his life changed.  After completing his mission, he encountered a small spitfire of a woman and saved her life, for which she promptly repaid him by bashing his head in.  When Val Con woke up, the spitfire dumped him, but Val Con was intrigued, so he followed her and saved her life again.  Now Miri Robertson, whose life he had saved twice, was forced to deal with Val Con, honor demanded it.  She was intrigued by Val Con, whom she nicknamed &quot;Tough Guy&quot;, but definitely didn't want a partner.  As a former mercenary and bodyguard, she could handle herself and, as a target for the powerful Juntavas crime ring, she couldn't trust anyone...<br />However, both Val Con and Miri, both of whom were used to working alone, soon found that they worked well as partners, at least they would if Miri would stop trying to ditch Val Con at every opportunity.  Val Con knew that Miri was something special, she made him feel things that he hadn't felt in years, she made him feel alive again.  Miri didn't know what was wrong with Val Con, but she knew it had something to do with what he called The Loop, some kind of brain implant that gave him the odds of success on every mission/action he made.  As they grew closer together, both Val Con and Miri realized that the Department of the Interior, who had trained Val Con as an agent, must have some ulterior motive in plan.  But in order to find out what it was, they had to stay alive...<br />Agent of Change is the 4th book in the Liaden series if you read them chronologically (which I recommend).  As with the other books, I simply loved Lee &amp; Miller's characters and world building. They spend time on the details and it shows that they have carefully thought out and executed another masterpiece. I really feel as if I know the Korval family and am taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written! If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more! You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would not recommend it as you will miss a lot of background, even though you should be able to follow the plot without too much trouble.  Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!iaden etiquette, these books are that well written! If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more! You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would not recommend it as you will miss a lot of background, even though you should be able to follow the plot without too much trouble.  Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!	2004-01-29
US	46905518	RH01BZMP0OY4Y	0441010229	228215203	Carpe Diem	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful - I Loved It!	Val Con yos'Phelium, future Delm of Clan Korval, Second Speaker to the House and former Agent of Change for the Department of the Interior and his lifemate, Miri Robertson, a former mercenary and bodyguard, were ordered not to be harmed by the Juntavas syndicate.  However, personal interpretation of 'not be harmed' left Val Con and Miri on a broken-down spaceship in the middle of nowhere with the enemy Yxtrang ready to kill them for the hunk of junk they were sitting in.  However, Val Con and Miri managed to rig something together and 'jumped' to one of the nearest planets - a backwater world named Vandar.<br />Vandar had no contact with the outside universe and didn't even know that other cultures existed.  With no spaceships and no radio comm that they could use, Val Con and Miri tried to resign themselves to a long stay and set about learning the culture and the language.  Meanwhile, Shan yos'Galan, Val Con's brother and his lifemate, Priscilla, began searching the galaxy for him, as did Edger and Sheather, Val Con's Clutch brothers.  Back on Liad, Nova yos'Galan, Val Con's sister, had translated a cryptic message from Val Con that, while ensuring the Clan of the heir's survival, told them precious little else.  But she did discover that the Department of the Interior, a department that seemed shrouded in mystery and determined to conquer the planet of Liad and from there, the universe, was also looking for Val Con.  The more she investigated, the more interested the Department became in Clan Korval...until Nova was forced to call Plan B - retreat strategically, trust no one, prepare for all out war....<br />Carpe Diem is the 5th book in the Liaden series if you read them chronologically, which I recommend.  As with the other books, I simply loved Lee &amp; Miller's characters and world building. They spend time on the details and it shows that they have carefully thought out and executed another masterpiece. I really feel as if I know the Korval family and am taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written! If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more! You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would not recommend it as you will miss a lot of background and spend the first part of the book just trying to keep track of who everyone is. Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written! If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more! You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would not recommend it as you will miss a lot of background and spend the first part of the book just trying to keep track of who everyone is. Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!	2004-01-29
US	46905518	RWLS5ZCZ8JD9L	1892065029	448323258	Pilots Choice Liaden Universe Adventures	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful - Don't Miss This One!	Pilot's Choice is an omnibus of two novels: Local Custom &amp; Scout's Progress, both of which are prequels to Partners in Necessity.<br />Local Custom:  Er Thom yos'Galan, Master Trader and Heir to Clan Korval knew his duty to his clan - to provide the Clan with a child of his own body. He also knew that he could never offer a contract wife the care and attention his honor demanded until he had seen Anne Davis one last time. Then he would seek the Healers on Liad and they would erase all of his memories of the woman who had captured his heart...<br />Anne, a Terran and brilliant linguist had met Er Thom years before and had a wonderful affair with him, falling head over heels in love, but knowing that he would leave her, as he had. What Anne did not tell Er Thom was that she bore his child, her precious Shan. She never expected to see Er Thom again and was stunned when he walked in to her apartment. They both found that their love was as deep and fierce as it had ever been and Er Thom found that he did not know how to say goodbye. Then Shan returned home and Er Thom found himself with an even bigger problem than before. For Shan was Er Thom's heir, but as a half Liaden, half Terran, there was no guarantee that he would be accepted by the Clan and the Tho'Delm, Er Thom's mother. Er Thom knew that there would be a sacrifice to make in the time ahead of him, a sacrifice that would rip his heart to shreds. For the tho'Delm had rejected Shan and refused to even consider that Er Thom had a future with Anne and so he was faced with the difficult choice of weighing his honor and the honor of his clan against the love he could not live without...<br />Scout's Progress:  Aelliana Caylon learned the hard way that she was powerless in her Clan. At first, she tried to defy her brother, Van Eld, when he attempted to exercise his authority over her as the next Delm, but after her first and only contract marriage to Van Eld's abusive friend, Aelliana no longer rebelled. She learned to feign meekness and remain quiet except when she was teaching her advanced math class to the irrepressible pilots in training at the academy. She had value at the university and was readily acknowledged as one of the most brilliant mathematicians of her day. When one of her pilot students convinced her to play a game of chance at a new gaming palace, Aelliana used her math skills to beat the cardshark and found herself the proud owner of a ship - and her chance to leave Liaden forever...<br />But before Aelliana could leave Liaden, she had to get her pilot's license. Luckily, she was docked at Binjali's, where the pilots were irreverent and surprising, but genuinely friendly. Before she knew it, Aelliana found herself adopted in to a kind of family where her skills were valued and her opinion was asked. She quickly found herself looking forward to her lessons with Master Pilot Daav, who challenged her to become more and to take risks. What she did not know was that her quirky co-pilot was in fact Daav yos'Phelium, the Delm of Korval and arguably the most powerful man on the planet. She also did not know that Daav was in negotiations for a contract marriage or she never would have let herself fall in love with him....<br />I found the Liaden culture fascinating and loved learning more about the customs and mindset of these people. Lee and Miller have done a fabulous job at creating this universe and making their characters absolutely believable. I loved all of the characters and felt that I could identify with all of them in a different way. All of them have their strengths and weaknesses and all of them had their own part to play in the game. Although the romance of the two main characters in each book is a large part of the plot, the world building, the characterization, attention to detail and the excellent quality of writing kept me absolutely riveted - I couldn't put this book down!rned to feign meekness and remain quiet except when she was teaching her advanced math class to the irrepressible pilots in training at the academy. She had value at the university and was readily acknowledged as one of the most brilliant mathematicians of her day. When one of her pilot students convinced her to play a game of chance at a new gaming palace, Aelliana used her math skills to beat the cardshark and found herself the proud owner of a ship - and her chance to leave Liaden forever... <br />But before Aelliana could leave Liaden, she had to get her pilot's license. Luckily, she was docked at Binjali's, where the pilots were irreverent and surprising, but genuinely friendly. Before she knew it, Aelliana found herself adopted in to a kind of family where her skills were valued and her opinion was asked. She quickly found herself looking forward to her lessons with Master Pilot Daav, who challenged her to become more and to take risks. What she did not know was that her quirky co-pilot was in fact Daav yos'Phelium, the Delm of Korval and arguably the most powerful man on the planet. She also did not know that Daav was in negotiations for a contract marriage or she never would have let herself fall in love with him.... <br />I found the Liaden culture fascinating and loved learning more about the customs and mindset of these people. Lee and Miller have done a fabulous job at creating this universe and making their characters absolutely believable. I loved all of the characters and felt that I could identify with all of them in a different way. All of them have their strengths and weaknesses and all of them had their own part to play in the game. Although the romance of the two main characters in each book is a large part of the plot, the world building, the characterization, attention to detail and the excellent quality of writing kept me absolutely riveted - I couldn't put this book down!	2004-01-29
US	46905518	R4QUG28S89UO	1892065010	823146766	Partners in Necessity	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Absolutely Wonderful - DO NOT MISS THIS ONE!!	Partners in Necessity is an omnibus edition of three novels: Conflict of Honors, Agent of Change &amp; Carpe Diem.<br />Conflict of Honors:  Priscilla Delacroix y Mendoza left her homeplanet when she was only sixteen, convicted of blasphemy and exiled to be homeless and clanless, but she survived. Ten years later, after working her share of grunt jobs, she was the cargo master on the Daxflan, a Liaden ship captained by Sav Rid Olanek. It wasn't an easy job as Terrans were treated like second-class citizens and the second mate, Dagmar, kept trying to &quot;charm&quot; her into a relationship, but Priscilla could not afford to leave the ship and damage her reputation so she stayed. Then Priscilla discovered that the Captain had taken on a cargo of illegal drugs and passed them off as innocent pharmaceuticals. Priscilla tried to hide her knowledge, but she found herself knocked out and locked up on a second-class planet with no money, no job and a resume that now claimed she was a thief.<br />Priscilla knew that she had to get off the planet and hunt down the Daxflan, if for nothing else than to reclaim her possessions, so she turned to the only ship in orbit at the time - the Dutiful Passage captained by Shan yos'Galan. Unbelievably, the Captain hired her as a pet librarian and then proceeded to help her with pilot and leadership training. Priscilla did not know quite how to react to the friendship of those aboard the Dutiful Passage, but she slowly started to think of the ship as her home. But Dagmar and Captain Olanek were not going to let Priscilla escape and they had a score to settle against Shan yos'Galan, her beloved Captain and source of protection...<br />Agent of Change:  Val Con yos'Phelium, Clan Korval, future Delm and Second Speaker, was just doing a routine mission on some backwater planet in the middle of the universe when his life changed. After completing his mission, he encountered a small spitfire of a woman and saved her life, for which she promptly repaid him by bashing his head in. When Val Con woke up, the spitfire dumped him, but Val Con was intrigued, so he followed her and saved her life again. Now Miri Robertson, whose life he had saved twice, was forced to deal with Val Con, honor demanded it. She was intrigued by Val Con, whom she nicknamed &quot;Tough Guy&quot;, but definitely didn't want a partner. As a former mercenary and bodyguard, she could handle herself and, as a target for the powerful Juntavas crime ring, she couldn't trust anyone...<br />However, both Val Con and Miri, both of whom were used to working alone, soon found that they worked well as partners, at least they would if Miri would stop trying to ditch Val Con at every opportunity. Val Con knew that Miri was something special, she made him feel things that he hadn't felt in years, she made him feel alive again. Miri didn't know what was wrong with Val Con, but she knew it had something to do with what he called The Loop, some kind of brain implant that gave him the odds of success on every mission/action he made. As they grew closer together, both Val Con and Miri realized that the Department of the Interior, who had trained Val Con as an agent, must have some ulterior motive in plan. But in order to find out what it was, they had to stay alive...<br />Carpe Diem:  Val Con his lifemate, Miri Robertson were ordered not to be harmed by the Juntavas syndicate. However, personal interpretation of 'not be harmed' left Val Con and Miri on a broken-down spaceship in the middle of nowhere with the enemy Yxtrang ready to kill them for the hunk of junk they were sitting in. However, Val Con and Miri managed to rig something together and 'jumped' to one of the nearest planets - a backwater world named Vandar.<br />Vandar had no contact with the outside universe and didn't even know that other cultures existed. With no spaceships and no radio comm that they could use, Val Con and Miri tried to resign themselves to a long stay and set about learning the culture and the language. Meanwhile, Shan yos'Galan, Val Con's brother and his lifemate, Priscilla, began searching the galaxy for him, as did Edger and Sheather, Val Con's Clutch brothers. Back on Liad, Nova yos'Galan, Val Con's sister, had translated a cryptic message from Val Con that, while ensuring the Clan of the heir's survival, told them precious little else. But she did discover that the Department of the Interior, a department that seemed shrouded in mystery and determined to conquer the planet of Liad and from there, the universe, was also looking for Val Con. The more she investigated, the more interested the Department became in Clan Korval...until Nova was forced to call Plan B - retreat strategically, trust no one, prepare for all out war....<br />These are books 3-5 in the Liaden series if you read them chronologically, which I recommend. As with the other books, I simply loved Lee &amp; Miller's characters and world building. They spend time on the details and it shows that they have carefully thought out and executed another masterpiece. I really feel as if I know the Korval family and am taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written! If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more! You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would recommend starting with the prequels (Local Custom &amp; Scout's Progress, also found in omnibus Pilot's Choice), so that you are familiar with Liad and Clan Korval, but, these books were the originals for the Liaden universe and were written first.  Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!learning the culture and the language. Meanwhile, Shan yos'Galan, Val Con's brother and his lifemate, Priscilla, began searching the galaxy for him, as did Edger and Sheather, Val Con's Clutch brothers. Back on Liad, Nova yos'Galan, Val Con's sister, had translated a cryptic message from Val Con that, while ensuring the Clan of the heir's survival, told them precious little else. But she did discover that the Department of the Interior, a department that seemed shrouded in mystery and determined to conquer the planet of Liad and from there, the universe, was also looking for Val Con. The more she investigated, the more interested the Department became in Clan Korval...until Nova was forced to call Plan B - retreat strategically, trust no one, prepare for all out war.... <br />These are books 3-5 in the Liaden series if you read them chronologically, which I recommend. As with the other books, I simply loved Lee &amp; Miller's characters and world building. They spend time on the details and it shows that they have carefully thought out and executed another masterpiece. I really feel as if I know the Korval family and am taking a remedial course on Liaden etiquette, these books are that well written! If you enjoy any kind of science fiction or space opera then this book has something for you - great characters, lots of action, enemies on all sides, high tech battle sequences, romance, family relations, honor, and much, much more! You can read this book as a stand-alone novel, but I would recommend starting with the prequels (Local Custom &amp; Scout's Progress, also found in omnibus Pilot's Choice), so that you are familiar with Liad and Clan Korval, but, these books were the originals for the Liaden universe and were written first.  Also, you definitely should not miss out on any book in the wonderful Liaden universe - all of them are very highly recommended!	2004-01-29
US	46905518	R3MOQST41N2J6H	0786002948	906730088	Change	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Out of Print for a Reason	Selena Christian has spent her whole life concealing her talents from ordinary humans.  When she was a young child, her parents helped her, but after their untimely death, Selena was left to fend for herself on the streets.  Through luck or happenstance, Selena grew up to a be a beautiful young woman, but then she was caught and imprisoned.  Left alone in a small cell with nothing to do and no one to talk to, Selena was anxious and eager when Mark Curien first started visiting her.  Before long, Mark's visits were the highlight of Selena's day and she told him everything.  After all, what did it matter if she confessed to be exactly what they said she was, she was as good as dead anyway.  Then Mark stopped coming and Selena discovered that he was a lawyer for the prosecution and would be her enemy in her trial.  Selena determined to hate Mark for as long as she was alive, even after she discovered that he was a spy and saved her life by transporting her off of Earth to a faraway planet called Change.<br />Change was the last hope for most humans with psychic powers, but Selena did not let herself relax her guard among her fellow paranormals and resisted making friends.  She allowed them to study her and test her reactions in exchange for a home of her own and a chance to work with her beloved horses.  But when a strange alien with powerful abilities lands on the planet, no one knows what to do.  Only Selena, with her talent with animals, dares to approach the creature and return with it to its home planet.  There she discovers the creatures she has been dreaming about all of her life and must find a way to save them or leave them to slowly die out on a brutal and barren planet...<br />I was quite disappointed in this book because I love romance books with a science fiction/fantasy plot and this one sounds good on the surface, but isn't.  From the first page I had a hard time liking Selena as a character.  She is very hard, strong willed and has little or no softness to her, I cannot understand why Mark fell in love with her at all, unless it was for her physical beauty.  Mark and Selena spend a good 2/3rds of the book apart with hardly a mention of the other so there is not a lot of romance in the book.  Also, it seemed that the author wasn't quite sure which plot line she wanted to focus on - the conflict between the ordinary humans and paranormals, the challenge of working with a whole new race of aliens, Selena's discovery of her powers, etc.  They were all jumbled together and kind of thrown in as if the author didn't have on any single line and was looking for a filler.  For these and other problems, I can honestly say that there is a reason why this book went out of print!to her, I cannot understand why Mark fell in love with her at all, unless it was for her physical beauty.  Mark and Selena spend a good 2/3rds of the book apart with hardly a mention of the other so there is not a lot of romance in the book.  Also, it seemed that the author wasn't quite sure which plot line she wanted to focus on - the conflict between the ordinary humans and paranormals, the challenge of working with a whole new race of aliens, Selena's discovery of her powers, etc.  They were all jumbled together and kind of thrown in as if the author didn't have on any single line and was looking for a filler.  For these and other problems, I can honestly say that there is a reason why this book went out of print!	2004-01-26
US	46905518	R31ESVY2JAWSJ	043942089X	708788000	The Thief Lord	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Well Written, But a Bit Disappointing	When Prosper and Bo's parents died, they were sent to live with their aunt and uncle.  There was only one problem - they only wanted Bo, they didn't want Prosper.  Well, Prosper wasn't about to be bundled off to boarding school, leaving his beloved younger brother to the tender mercies of his Aunt Esther, so he and Bo ran away to Venice, Italy, the enchanting city his mother had told them so many tales of.  Unfortunately, Venice was not quite the wonderland that Prosper and Bo were expecting and with winter coming soon, they were not prepared and had no real plans at to how to survive.  Then they were adopted in by the Thief Lord...<br />The Thief Lord was clever and charming, to be sure, but no one knew who he really was and all of the children were a little afraid of him.  Prosper worried that Bo idolized the Thief Lord too much and would turn to a life of crime, but where else could they go?  Besides, Aunt Esther had now hired a private investigator to track them down in Venice and they relied on their friends to help them escape his notice.  But when the Thief Lord accepts a job from a mysterious duke, Prosper finds himself thrust into a magical adventure full of surprises and discovers more about the Thief Lord than he truly wanted to know...<br />The Thief Lord was a solidly written fantasy/adventure tale for children, but it was nothing spectacular.  Perhaps I judged it too harshly due to all of the buzz surrounding the book, but I just found it lacking somehow.  The characters were not quite three dimensional for me and I did not really identify or connect with any of them, but they are likeable enough.  There is also nothing particularly original in the book and the plot moves along a little slower than I like.  Still, the book has enough humor and fun for children to enjoy it while they wait for the next Harry Potter book to come out.  I look forward to seeing more from this author as I feel that she has a great deal of potential.  My recommendation would be to check this book out from your local library or find a cheap used copy.be to check this book out from your local library or find a cheap used copy.	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R24Y9XNPOX9PPG	0441009271	105212435	Scout's Progress	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful - I Loved It!	Aelliana Caylon learned the hard way that she was powerless in her Clan.  At first, she tried to defy her brother, Van Eld, when he attempted to exercise his authority over her as the next Delm, but after her first and only contract marriage to Van Eld's abusive friend, Aelliana no longer rebelled.  She learned to feign meekness and remain quiet except when she was teaching her advanced math class to the irrepressible pilots in training at the academy.  She had value at the university and was readily acknowledged as one of the most brilliant mathematicians of her day.  When one of her pilot students convinced her to play a game of chance at a new gaming palace, Aelliana used her math skills to beat the cardshark and found herself the proud owner of a ship - and her chance to leave Liaden forever...<br />But before Aelliana could leave Liaden, she had to get her pilot's license.  Luckily, she was docked at Binjali's, where the pilots were irreverent and surprising, but genuinely friendly.  Before she knew it, Aelliana found herself adopted in to a kind of family where her skills were valued and her opinion was asked.  She quickly found herself looking forward to her lessons with Master Pilot Daav, who challenged her to become more and to take risks.  What she did not know was that her quirky co-pilot was in fact Daav yos'Phelium, the Delm of Korval and arguably the most powerful man on the planet.  She also did not know that Daav was in negotiations for a contract marriage or she never would have let herself fall in love with him....<br />Scout's Progress is the second book in the Liaden series after Local Custom, where we are first introduced to Daav.  It was written after books 3-5, however, so most call it a prequel.  I found this book to be just as well written and intriguing as Local Custom.  I think that the Liaden universe is fascinating and every time I get my hands on one of the books, I am riveted and cannot stop reading until I am finished.  All of the characters are interesting with quirks and strengths and weaknesses.  I particularly enjoyed Daav's weird sense of humor and how he likes to play the game of life on Liaden.  There are some who say that this is simply a romance with science fiction trappings and I would agree that the romance is very important to the plot, but I would also say that it is the characters and the world building that keep me reading, not the romance, although I enjoyed that as well.  If you enjoy science fiction or space opera and have not yet read this wonderful series than you are in for a real treat!  I cannot recommend this series highly enough!racters are interesting with quirks and strengths and weaknesses.  I particularly enjoyed Daav's weird sense of humor and how he likes to play the game of life on Liaden.  There are some who say that this is simply a romance with science fiction trappings and I would agree that the romance is very important to the plot, but I would also say that it is the characters and the world building that keep me reading, not the romance, although I enjoyed that as well.  If you enjoy science fiction or space opera and have not yet read this wonderful series than you are in for a real treat!  I cannot recommend this series highly enough!	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R3U3QCN3IG0P8L	0312983824	347731978	Faking It	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Fast, Fun Read, But Not Crusie's Best	Matilda Goodnight knows that she will spend the rest of her life trying to pay off the Goodnight debts and hide the Goodnight secrets.  Unfortunately, she may have to spend the rest of her life painting murals of famous paintings on people's bathroom walls, too.  For this, if nothing else, Matilda knows she is destined to go to hell.  But things get much worse when she breaks into Clea Lewis' home to try and steal back a painting from her.  Not only did she not find the painting, but she ended up hiding in the closet with charming con man Davy Dempsey, who was there to steal back his three million dollars from Clea.  Before she knew what was happening, Tilda found herself being kissed like she had never been kissed before and forming some kind of partnership with the would be thief.  Still, Tilda found that Davy has his uses...<br />Unfortunately, one of them was not to give her the best sex of her life as Davy caught her faking an orgasm, or trying to anyway, the first time he made love to her.  But Davy has a mission and is not about to be put off by her lack of response, although he takes it as a personal challenge to make her come for him the next time.  In no time at all, Tilda and Davy are up to their necks in forged paintings, attempted thefts, redecorating the gallery, solving the problems of Tilda's wacky family and just falling in love.  But will the love last through Tilda's hang ups and Davy's love of a good con?<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book by Crusie, as I have enjoyed almost all of her books, but I did not think that this was her best book.  I was a bit put off by Tilda and did not really like her as a character so I had a hard time identifying with her and enjoying her quirks and strange habits.  I did like Davy and I liked the cast of secondary characters, of which there are many, and Crusie has a lot of zingy one liners in the book that will make anyone laugh.  The plot moves quickly with all kinds of secondary subplots popping up like dandelions on an unmowed lawn, almost too many, but it isn't like we are dealing with complicated issues here.  On the whole I would say that this is a fast, fun read, not particularly memorable, but a fun break from your day to day.ions on an unmowed lawn, almost too many, but it isn't like we are dealing with complicated issues here.  On the whole I would say that this is a fast, fun read, not particularly memorable, but a fun break from your day to day.	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R1LCT0360UKRP3	0441009115	619726957	Local Custom	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Absolutely Wonderful - I Loved This Book!	Er Thom yos'Galan, Master Trader and Heir to Clan Korval knew his duty to his clan - to provide the Clan with a child of his own body.  He also knew that he could never offer a contract wife the care and attention his honor demanded until he had seen Anne Davis one last time.  Then he would seek the Healers on Liad and they would erase all of his memories of the woman who had captured his heart...<br />Anne, a Terran and brilliant linguist had met Er Thom years before and had a wonderful affair with him, falling head over heels in love, but knowing that he would leave her, as he had.  What Anne did not tell Er Thom was that she bore his child, her precious Shan.  She never expected to see Er Thom again and was stunned when he walked in to her apartment.  They both found that their love was as deep and fierce as it had ever been and Er Thom found that he did not know how to say goodbye.  Then Shan returned home and Er Thom found himself with an even bigger problem than before.  For Shan was Er Thom's heir, but as a half Liaden, half Terran, there was no guarantee that he would be accepted by the Clan and the tho'Delm, Er Thom's mother.  Er Thom knew that there would be a sacrifice to make in the time ahead of him, a sacrifice that would rip his heart to shreds.  For the tho'Delm had rejected Shan and refused to even consider that Er Thom had a future with Anne and so he was faced with the difficult choice of weighing his honor and the honor of his clan against the love he could not live without...<br />Local Custom is the first book in the Liaden series as far as chronology goes (even though books 3-5 were written first) and introduces us to Er Thom yos'Galan and his son Shan yos'Galan, whom we see in Conflicts of Honor.  I found the Liaden culture fascinating and loved learning more about the customs and mindset of these people.  Lee and Miller have done a fabulous job at creating this universe and making their characters absolutely believable.  I loved all of the characters and felt that I could identify with all of them in a different way.  All of them have their strengths and weaknesses and all of them had their own part to play in the game.  Although the romance of the two main characters is a large part of the plot, the world building, the characterization, attention to detail and the excellent quality of writing kept me absolutely riveted - I couldn't put this book down!haracters and felt that I could identify with all of them in a different way.  All of them have their strengths and weaknesses and all of them had their own part to play in the game.  Although the romance of the two main characters is a large part of the plot, the world building, the characterization, attention to detail and the excellent quality of writing kept me absolutely riveted - I couldn't put this book down!	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R32IJI7HQYDN7B	1551668653	684993289	Getting Rid Of Bradley	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Fast, Fun, Fluffy &amp; Forgettable...	Lucy Savage was not having a good day.  Her husband, whom she was trying to divorce for cheating on her, didn't even do her the courtesy of showing up at the courthouse where their marriage was dissolved.  Her brassy blonde hair, which she had just had done, looked terrible and her sister was nagging at her to take more risks again.  More risks?!  Didn't she realize that every time she took a risk it ended in disaster?  Still, the day wasn't a total wash, there was a pretty cute guy in the diner where she had lunch with her sister.  Well, she thought he was pretty cute until he tried to mug her in the alley.  Then he had the gall to claim to be a police officer trying to save her life after someone took a shot at her!<br />Detective Zack Warren has never seen anyone as in need of protection as Lucy Savage, but he definitely doesn't want to be the guy trying to do the protecting.  All he wants is for Lucy to lead him to her ex-husband Bradley whom they suspect of stealing several thousand dollars from the bank he worked at.  Only problem is Lucy told Bradley she never wanted to speak with him again and hasn't seen or heard from him since.  Still, Zack has a hunch that Lucy is key to breaking the case so he moves in with her and her two nutty dogs to provide 24 hour protection. Next thing she knows, Lucy has accidentally turned her hair green, adopted another dog off the street and fallen head over heels in love with Zack!  But she knows that Zack isn't serious when he says that he loves her and wants to marry her, after all, he is way too big of a risk for her to take...<br />Getting Rid of Bradley is a fun, fast read that I enjoyed, but it is nothing special or spectacular.  This is a bit disappointing as Jennifer Crusie's books are usually pretty memorable - for her zany characters if nothing else.  Lucy is a fun character, but a little too bubble brained for me, teacher or no.  She was a little too quirky for me to identify with and I was not sure why Zack, a seemingly normal guy would fall for someone like her, but they say opposites attract, right?  The plot is a little thin and it is pretty easy to figure out &quot;the mystery&quot;, but this is a good summer beach book or something to read when you don't want to concentrate too hard.emingly normal guy would fall for someone like her, but they say opposites attract, right?  The plot is a little thin and it is pretty easy to figure out &quot;the mystery&quot;, but this is a good summer beach book or something to read when you don't want to concentrate too hard.	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R982HYP537GTZ	0671877216	683362821	One Foot in the Grave	Books	4	7	8	N	N	How Can He Believe in Vampires?	Christopher Csejthe's life is over.  He lost his beloved wife and daughter in an automobile accident and now he has some weird disease that no one has ever seen before.  He can't eat, he can't sleep, he had to quit his job as a teacher because he can't stand the sunlight so now he spends his nights as a disc jockey for a small local radio station waiting to die at any moment.  When two strange women show up and try to convince him to travel with them to Seattle, Christopher is having none of it - until some strange monster tries to attack him at work.  Suddenly, Christopher doesn't find himself so ready to die.<br />What he discovers in Seattle is that he is a vampire, well, sort of.  Christopher has the reflexes and instincts of a young vampire, but has not yet transformed completely.  He is an anomaly and there are those who want him dead and there are those who want him studied.  Christopher himself just wants to get away from all of these freaky people who believe in crap like vampires and werewolves and stuff.  With careful plotting and a random break in at the compound, Christopher is able to escape, but he doesn't get far.  It turns out that there are many other vampires looking for him.  Vampires who believe that Christopher can lead them to THE vampire - Count Dracula himself...<br />One Foot in the Grave was a very unusual vampire book that I greatly enjoyed.  I loved Christopher as a character, he was witty, sarcastic, and completely unwilling to believe that he was now one of the powerful undead.  It was also endearing to see him make so many mistakes and to know that he had weaknesses and could be manipulated, but he was still trying to be &quot;the good guy.&quot;  The plot had many unexpected twists and turns and the author really keeps you guessing until the last page of the book.  The only complaint I had was that Christopher changed pretty abruptly (and not for the better in my opinion) near the end of the book and suddenly there are all of these other characters that play important roles.  This was kind of weird, but I still really enjoyed the book.  If you have the good fortune to come across a copy of this book at a reasonable price snatch it up - you will enjoy yourself!ther characters that play important roles.  This was kind of weird, but I still really enjoyed the book.  If you have the good fortune to come across a copy of this book at a reasonable price snatch it up - you will enjoy yourself!	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R2RKU4MQCBWA7T	0441009646	453469404	Conflict of Honors: A Novel of the Liaden Universe	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely Amazing - I Loved This Book!	Priscilla Delacroix y Mendoza left her homeplanet when she was only sixteen, convicted of blasphemy and exiled to be homeless and clanless, but she survived.  Ten years later, after working her share of grunt jobs, she was the cargo master on the Daxflan, a Liaden ship captained by Sav Rid Olanek.  It wasn't an easy job as Terrans were treated like second-class citizens and the second mate, Dagmar, kept trying to &quot;charm&quot; her into a relationship, but Priscilla could not afford to leave the ship and damage her reputation so she stayed.  Then Priscilla discovered that the Captain had taken on a cargo of illegal drugs and passed them off as innocent pharmaceuticals.  Priscilla tried to hide her knowledge, but she found herself knocked out and locked up on a second-class planet with no money, no job and a resume that now claimed she was a thief.<br />Priscilla knew that she had to get off the planet and hunt down the Daxflan, if for nothing else than to reclaim her possessions, so she turned to the only ship in orbit at the time - the Dutiful Passage captained by Shan yos'Galan.  Unbelievably, the Captain hired her as a pet librarian and then proceeded to help her with pilot and leadership training.  Priscilla did not know quite how to react to the friendship of those aboard the Dutiful Passage, but she slowly started to think of the ship as her home.  But Dagmar and Captain Olanek were not going to let Priscilla escape and they had a score to settle against Shan yos'Galan, her beloved Captain and source of protection...<br />Conflict of Honors (also found in an omnibus edition called Partners in Necessity) is the third book in the Liaden trilogy if you go chronologically, but it was the first book written in the Liaden universe.  In it we see Shan yos'Galan again, whom we met as a child in Local Custom (the story of his parents) and it was wonderful to see what he turned out like.  I absolutely adored the characters in this book and felt myself cheering Priscilla on whenever she had doubts or faltered, but my favorite was Shan with his irreverent sense of humor and very independent character.  The universe is skillfully created with lots of details and clear differentiation between planets and cultures.  If you have not yet treated yourself to the Liaden series by Lee and Miller then you are really missing out!  They are must reads for any science fiction/space opera fan or anyone who loves to read well-crafted books!lla on whenever she had doubts or faltered, but my favorite was Shan with his irreverent sense of humor and very independent character.  The universe is skillfully created with lots of details and clear differentiation between planets and cultures.  If you have not yet treated yourself to the Liaden series by Lee and Miller then you are really missing out!  They are must reads for any science fiction/space opera fan or anyone who loves to read well-crafted books!	2004-01-22
US	46905518	R1IYRMV1V9WX2R	0385730632	699703914	The Ropemaker	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enchanting Coming of Age Tale...	The Valley had always been a wonderful place to live, a peaceful place, but then the Empire came.  Greedy tax collectors forced the farmers to pay back taxes for all the years that they didn't pay and the horse warriors on the plains raided, raped and murdered the people.  Desperate, the Valley sent out a small group of people to seek aid from a powerful sorceress.  Two of them found the sorceress, but she was dying and so sent them on to the great wizard Faheel.  Faheel heard their plea and accepted the gift that they bore and set up protection for the people in the Valley.  To the man, he gave a flask of crystal water and instructed him to empty it into the stream high in the mountains of the Valley and sing the song it told him.  To the woman, he gave a loaf of barley and instructed her to plant a small field of barley every year and to feed the cedars in the forest of the Valley and sing the song that they told her.  The man and the woman returned to the Valley and every generation there was an Ortahlson who sang to the stream and an Urlasdaughter who sang to the cedars.  The Valley became impenetrable to the Empire's soldiers and tax collectors as there was a strange sickness in the forest that made men dizzy, ill, and knocked them out and then killed them.  High in the mountains, there was a glacier that blocked the pass that the horse warriors used.  As time passed, the people of the Valley told the story for entertainment for they knew it wasn't real, but the Ortahlsons and the Urlasdaughters kept singing...<br />Generation followed generation until twenty has passed since the original adventurers found the wizard Faheel.  The unthinkable began to happen as the glacier started to melt and the trees stopped singing and producing their sickness.  The people of the Valley knew it was only a matter of time until the Empire would come and enslave them again or they would be killed by the horse warriors.  However, the people still refused to believe that the story was true, so it was up to the Ortahlsons and the Urlasdaughters to save their homes.<br />Tilja Urlasdaughter was still grieving over the loss of her beloved Woodbourne when she escorted her grandmother to the gathering.  Tilja could not hear the song of the cedars, but her younger sister, Anja, could and so she would inherit the farm of the Urlasdaughters.  Indeed, Tilja seemed to have no magic at all and so was stunned when the cedars told Anja that Tilja needed to go with her grandmother and two Ortahlsons to find the wizard Faheel and renew the spell on the Valley.  Tilja didn't know what she could do to help, but she was determined to do her best to save her world.  However, as the small party journeys slowly through the treacherous Empire, Tilja finds that she may be the only one was has the power to save the Valley simply because she doesn't have any magic...<br />The Ropemaker is an enchanting tale of a girl who is simply ordinary, but in an extraordinary way.  Tilja was very likeable and I found myself identifying with her right away.  The other characters are also fun to get to know, but Tilja is definitely the focus of the book.  As far as the plot goes, this book is more a journey of self discovery than a story with a beginning and an end.  If you enjoy journeys with exotic locales and interesting peoples then you will enjoy this tale.  Not the most thrilling of books, but nonetheless entertaining and solidly written with little surprises around every corner.  It is written simply enough for older children to enjoy, but there is enough detail and intrigue to entertain adults and older readers.was true, so it was up to the Ortahlsons and the Urlasdaughters to save their homes.<br />Tilja Urlasdaughter was still grieving over the loss of her beloved Woodbourne when she escorted her grandmother to the gathering.  Tilja could not hear the song of the cedars, but her younger sister, Anja, could and so she would inherit the farm of the Urlasdaughters.  Indeed, Tilja seemed to have no magic at all and so was stunned when the cedars told Anja that Tilja needed to go with her grandmother and two Ortahlsons to find the wizard Faheel and renew the spell on the Valley.  Tilja didn't know what she could do to help, but she was determined to do her best to save her world.  However, as the small party journeys slowly through the treacherous Empire, Tilja finds that she may be the only one was has the power to save the Valley simply because she doesn't have any magic...<br />The Ropemaker is an enchanting tale of a girl who is simply ordinary, but in an extraordinary way.  Tilja was very likeable and I found myself identifying with her right away.  The other characters are also fun to get to know, but Tilja is definitely the focus of the book.  As far as the plot goes, this book is more a journey of self discovery than a story with a beginning and an end.  If you enjoy journeys with exotic locales and interesting peoples then you will enjoy this tale.  Not the most thrilling of books, but nonetheless entertaining and solidly written with little surprises around every corner.  It is written simply enough for older children to enjoy, but there is enough detail and intrigue to entertain adults and older readers.	2004-01-16
US	46905518	R1OBY8DIMF9XNK	1591050758	800037309	Moon of Little Winter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable Paranormal Romance!	Chely Austin loved her grandfather and was devastated when he passed away. The only thing she had left from him was his old house in Cades Cove, which he hadn't inhabited for over twenty years. Chely didn't know why he refused to live there, but she was determined to make it her home. So she was outraged when Ty Walker snuck in her house late one night and claimed that the home actually stood on his grandmother's property! She chased him out with a gun and tried to avoid him, but Ty was pretty hard to ignore. For one thing, he was gorgeous and sexy and seemed to be attracted to her, but strange things had a tendency to happen when he was around. Chely wasn't sure if she trusted Ty or wanted anything to do with him, but she did feel safer with him in the house so she agreed to let him stay while they investigated the old property claims from decades before. Chely could feel the sexual tension building between them and wasn't sure if she wanted to try to have a relationship with Ty or not, but Ty sure as heck knew better than to get involved with a woman. No one had ever accepted him for what he truly was - a male witch who could shapeshift. He was desperately afraid that Chely would not believe him or worse, shut him out of her life entirely!<br />But when the body of a missing child is found underneath Chely's grandfather's house, Chely & Ty are suddenly drawn into the mysteries of the past. Neither can remember much about their childhood and Ty's grandmother insists that they need to remember the events that happened twenty years ago on their own. All Chely knows about her past is that her mother left her with her grandfather and her life starts from there. So when Chely starts seeing a strange woman in a red cloak and having weird dreams, she thinks that she is seeing her mother - but what does she want and why does Chely fear her? Ty can feel that there is an ancient evil at work in the house, but he doesn't know where it is coming from and is unsure how to counter it. But he does know that Chely's life is on the line and he is running out of time to save her...<br />Moon of Little Winter was a very good paranormal romance. Both Chely and Ty were strong, independent characters who did quite well at working together to solve the mystery and beat the bad guys. My only complaint with the plot was that their being thrown together in the house was a kind of flimsy excuse and they denied their feelings for each other for most of the book, which didn't make for a very satisfying romance. Still, the paranormal elements of the romance were worked in very well and made the story much more exciting and readable than your typical romantic suspense story. A great read for paranormal romance lovers!ter it. But he does know that Chely's life is on the line and he is running out of time to save her... <br />Moon of Little Winter was a very good paranormal romance. Both Chely and Ty were strong, independent characters who did quite well at working together to solve the mystery and beat the bad guys. My only complaint with the plot was that their being thrown together in the house was a kind of flimsy excuse and they denied their feelings for each other for most of the book, which didn't make for a very satisfying romance. Still, the paranormal elements of the romance were worked in very well and made the story much more exciting and readable than your typical romantic suspense story. A great read for paranormal romance lovers!	2004-01-16
US	46905518	R3ELA2833BR32T	0373250258	943704298	Fashionistas (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	All is Fair in Fashion & War!	Vig Morgan finally worked her way out of the assistant-for-the-...-from-hell position for the chief editor, Jane McNeill, only to find herself one of many associate editors with no power and no hope of a promotion. Vig isn't like the other editors anyway. For one thing, she really could care less about who wore what where and what the latest trend is. She knows that the readers of Fashionista, the magazine where she works, are ready for something with a little more edge, a little more meat, but Jane is just not interested in new and fresh ideas. Vig was hopelessly stuck in what she thought would be her dream job with no real future until Marguerite, a new editor arrived. Turns out Jane and Marguerite are bitter enemies from back in the day when they were both underlings at their first major magazine job. Vig quickly takes a shine to Marguerite and her more progressive thinking and cannot stop herself from wondering what working at Fashionista would be like if Marguerite was the chief editor instead of Jane. Then the plot thickens...<br />Vig's neighbor in the next cubicle over has developed a plan to depose Jane, which would ensure Marguerite's chief editor status. All they need to do is persuade Alex Keller, the mysterious events editor, to run a huge spread on Gavin Marshall, the new artist who dresses statues of Jesus in Christian Dior. There will be a public outcry over Fashionista's bad taste in running the story and Jane McNeill will be fired. And Vig is the lynchpin. The other girls need her to make sure this plan goes through. And crazily enough, Vig finds herself drawn into the game...<br />I thought that this was an absolute riot. I loved reading this book! It was so funny and was really fast paced so that you felt like you were on this breakneck pace and would never be able to slow down again. In fact, sometimes it was so fast paced that I missed out on little details and personalities, but its not like this was meant to be a character study or anything. Vig is a great heroine who finds herself swept up in something bigger than herself and discovers that things are not always what they seem. The ending was a real surprise and just leaves you stunned at the end. This book was almost five stars, but it was just a little too short on personality development and ended just a little too abruptly. Still, this is a fun, fast \\"chick flick in a book\\" read that I think almost everyone would enjoy.. Vig is a great heroine who finds herself swept up in something bigger than herself and discovers that things are not always what they seem. The ending was a real surprise and just leaves you stunned at the end. This book was almost five stars, but it was just a little too short on personality development and ended just a little too abruptly. Still, this is a fun, fast \\"chick flick in a book\\" read that I think almost everyone would enjoy.	2004-01-16
US	46905518	R3I93HJFLSLBOT	051511779X	358736428	Born in Shame (Born in Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	One of Nora Roberts' Best!	Shannon Bodine knows how quickly life changes.  Her father passed away suddenly and unexpectedly a year earlier and now her mother was dying of cancer.  Shannon didn't know how she could bear to lose both of her parents so close together, but her mother's dying words shattered Shannon's carefully ordered world.  Her real father was Thomas Concannon, a man her mother met and had an affair with in Ireland years ago.  Shannon was devastated and grieving when the private investigator found her and informed her that she had two sisters living in Ireland - and they wanted to meet her.  Shannon immediately rejected the offer to visit and returned to her work as a graphic artist in New York, but she couldn't focus and nothing seemed important.  Before she knew it, she found herself on her way to Ireland and a family she had never met...<br />From the moment Murphy Muldoon saw her, he knew that Shannon was the one for him.  He had been dreaming of her for years and now she was finally here, in the flesh, all he had to do was make her his.  But Shannon was strong and stubborn and Murphy found that he had his work cut out for him.  Oh, she was attracted to him, he could see that well enough, but she resisted his efforts to court her and refused to believe that she could have a life there in Ireland with him as a painter.  But Murphy was stubborn too, and this time, he wasn't about to let her go...<br />This is the third book in the 'Born in' series and it is my favorite of the trilogy.  I loved Shannon and Murphy's characters and enjoyed seeing the people from the other books pop up in this one so I could see how they were doing.  Roberts must have a special love for Ireland because she paints such a beautiful picture of the country and makes it almost a character in the book.  The love story here is wonderful, two modern people from very different walks of life with some powerful dreams mixed in to make things complicated.  This is a wonderful, fast, fun read that I enjoy reading time and time again!ding time and time again!	2004-01-16
US	46905518	R19U0AWBJA3LSI	0967162432	828404730	How To Start And Run A Small Book Publishing Company: A Small Business Guide To Self-Publishing And Independent Publishing	Books	3	208	217	N	Y	A Bit of a Disappointment...	Peter Hupalo's book was very highly recommended on Amazon.com so I was quite excited to see what information it could give me about starting my own publishing business. I knew that I was going to be disappointed when I saw the book and realized how cheaply the book was designed. While I know that it is important to cut costs in production, I felt that the author was lying when he said that it is easy for an author to learn to design a cover by himself and still look professional. Who is he trying to kid? The book is obviously self-published and designed. The author uses shameless self-promotion by repeatedly mentioning other books that he has written that could help the reader with other aspects of running a small business so that he can milk you for more money instead of giving you a few tips in this publication. I also thought that the title was misleading because it is really geared towards self-publishers - not a publishing company. I don't mean to say that the book is completely useless, as there was some decent information inside, as well as some suggestions as to printers and designers who don't mind working with smaller companies. However, as a whole I was pretty disappointed because there is little or no practical application for most of the topics that are covered in the book. For sections on inventory accounting, profitable book pricing, etc. the author spends a great amount of time running through math problems to show the reader all of this gobbledegook that doesn't make sense because you don't run your own publishing business and are not really sure of what the heck he is talking about! Other sections like cover design & book layout are obvious - make your book look good so it will sell. Duh. How do you make it look good, what are some things that have sold really well in the past? Anyway, it is a good introduction to publishing in general, but I was left with a lot more questions after the book than I had before!	2004-01-16
US	46905518	R1CNRK0Q94BCZT	0743444043	812381526	Double Dealer (CSI: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book for CSI Fans!	When a vacationing 'John Smith' is shot twice in the head in a hotel off the strip, the politicians are all over Grissom to get this case solved and to get it solved fast.  Dead tourists are bad for business, after all.  The murder is also panicking the townspeople because it looks like a mob hit, as the victim was shot execution style and then shot again to complete the signature of a famous old Mob executioner who dropped off the face of the earth about fifteen years before.  Grissom, Sara and Warrick pick up the case and use the evidence from the victim, the bloody shoeprints in the hall, the hotel's security videotape and many other clues to hunt down their man.  But that doesn't mean the case is over...<br />Meanwhile, Catherine Willows and Nick Stokes are called to investigate a body at a construction site.  The body has become mummified in Vegas' dry heat and the man is completely unrecognizable.  His fingers were cut off at the knuckle so there is no chance of fingerprint identification, but they still have teeth and a rather unusual ring to try and ID the body.  Funny thing is, the victim was shot twice in the head, execution style with the same signature of the new victim from Grissom's case.  While both teams know that the murders are probably linked, the clues lead them in different directions so Grissom keeps the cases split to avoid overlooking any clues.  But when the FBI steps in, sparks fly between the teams and the Vegas CSI investigators can't help but feel that the FBI is keeping something from them...<br />This is the first CSI book that Collins has written based on the wonderful TV show and he does a superb job at keeping the TV personalities consistent with the characters in the book.  I felt like I was watching an episode from the TV show, but with more descriptions and a longer time frame to solve the case.  Both of the mysteries were very interesting and I enjoyed the hunt for clues, but the ending was a little wacked.  It didn't end anything like I thought it would so I was totally surprised with what happened.  Still, it was a great book and I recommend it to any CSI fan.ng like I thought it would so I was totally surprised with what happened.  Still, it was a great book and I recommend it to any CSI fan.	2003-12-26
US	46905518	R2316EZDAPD2UC	0743444078	22585020	Cold Burn (CSI)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Great CSI Adventure!	When a park ranger discovers the naked body of a woman in the Lake Mead National Park, the Las Vegas CSI team is called in to investigate.  With Grissom away at a convention, Catherine Willows heads up the unit to try and discover why this woman's body would be left in such a public place - as if someone wanted her to be found.  Catherine, Warrick &amp; Nick do not know who the Jane Doe is, but they know that she was suffocated and then frozen after she died so they have no idea how long ago she was killed.  When they discover that she is Missy Sherman, the housewife who disappeared without a trace over a year ago, they try to sift through year-old clues, jog old memories and find some suspects.  But, in the end, they are forced to rely on small bits of evidence to track down the killer...<br />Meanwhile, in New York, Gil Grissom and Sara Sidle were lucky enough to make it to their hotel before a blizzard snowed them in.  With the convention cancelled due to transportation issues, Grissom and Sara settle in to enjoy a weekend of rest when they stumble across the body of a man who has been shot and then set on fire in the snow.  After a grueling stint guarding the body in the blizzard, a Canadian CSI teaches Sara and Grissom how to investigate clues in the snow.  But with no backup and no crime lab to process the clues, Grissom has to use every bit of ingenuity he possesses to track down the killer before the blizzard ends and his killer is turned loose...<br />I found this third book in the CSI series to be every bit as entertaining as the other books and the TV series.  Collins does a great job at keeping the personalities of the TV characters consistent in the book and I can almost visualize how they would film the TV episode while I am reading.  I enjoyed the Las Vegas plot with Catherine, Warrick &amp; Nick more than the New York plot with Grissom &amp; Sara, but it was interesting to find out how people process clues differently due to regional differences.  If you enjoy the TV series you should enjoy the books - another great read by Collins!f you enjoy the TV series you should enjoy the books - another great read by Collins!	2003-12-26
US	46905518	R24HPM57RAPFRJ	0743455827	891627577	Body of Evidence (CSI)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable Forensic Mystery, But Not The Best in the Series	When Catherine Willows and Nick Stokes catch a call at the end of their shift reporting \\"unknown trouble\\", it is all Catherine can do to drag herself down to the Newcombe-Gold Advertising Agency, knowing that her daughter will once again wake up to her regular babysitter instead of her mother.  But, when Catherine and Nick discover that the unknown trouble involves graphic photos of child pornography printed from Mr. Gold's computer, they both are willing to do whatever it takes to find the person who would buy such filth.  All of the evidence points to one man in the office, even though the computer forensics show that his computer was not used to print the photos, but Catherine's gut tells her that the obvious suspect is not the one who did this - but who did?<br />Meanwhile, Grissom, Warrick & Sara catch the case that could make or break their carriers outside of Nellis Air Force Base.  They discover the body of an unknown woman, called in by a good Samaritan.  The body was carefully wrapped and duct taped, but when they open up the package, they recognize the face of Candace Lewis, the Las Vegas mayor's personal assistant who disappeared a few weeks past.  Grissom is forced to put aside his distaste of politics and deal with the mayor's relationship with Candace and the sheriff's political aspirations.  With so much pressure coming from outside sources to solve the case and keep the details under wraps, Grissom is forced to walk on eggshells and use careful maneuvering in his investigation or ruin the wrong person's career...<br />This is the fourth book in the CSI series by Max Collins and, while it was not as entertaining as the first three, it was still a very enjoyable read.  The endings of the mysteries were particularly interesting in that it reminds us that sometimes the simplest and most obvious solution is the correct solution, instead of the convoluted and complex hypotheses that investigators come up with while working on cases.  Again, Collins does a superb job of keeping the TV personalities consistent and clear - I always feel like I am watching an episode on TV when I read his books, I just get more detail this way!superb job of keeping the TV personalities consistent and clear - I always feel like I am watching an episode on TV when I read his books, I just get more detail this way!	2003-12-26
US	46905518	R9H71LLNYJNAX	0743444051	686296972	Sin City (CSI: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great CSI Adventure!	When Lynn Pierce didn't show up at her friend's house as promised, Millie Blair knew that something was wrong.  And when Millie listened to the tape that Lynn had placed in her safekeeping, she convinced her husband to go with her to report that Lynn was missing.  Ordinarily, the police would not investigate a missing persons report when that person had only been missing for 7 hours, but after listening to the tape, where Lynn's husband Owen threatened to murder her and cut her up into little pieces, Grissom took the whole team out to investigate Lynn's house.  When that search turned up nothing, the CSI team had no choice but to back off, even though they could all sense that Lynn was dead and not just on vacation as her husband claimed.<br />Later that night, Grissom sent Catherine Willows and Sara Sidle to Dream Dolls, one of the strip clubs where Catherine used to work, to investigate a murder.  Catherine did not want to be reminded of that time her life and could do without Sara's fascination with her previous career, but Grissom was right in that Catherine knew the world better than any of the other CSIs.  The dead stripper was named Jenna Patrick and she was strangled with some electrical wire.  The security videos showed that Jenna took a patron in a Lipton construction jacket, beard and dark glasses into the back room to perform a private lap dance - and then she died.  All of the clues pointed to Jenna's sometimes violent boyfriend, Ray Lipton, who wanted Jenna to quit stripping, but Catherine's gut told her that there was more to the murder than was obvious...<br />Meanwhile, Warrick &amp; Nick discovered Lynn Pierce's car at the airport, but it was so clean that it looked like it came off of a dealership floor.  However, after careful examination, they discovered some blood and shattered glass that led them to believe Lynn's body was transported in her own car.  When a piece of a woman's body was found floating in Lake Mead, Grissom knew that they had found a piece of Lynn Pierce.  The husband had something to do with it, but they couldn't find any evidence at the Pierce's to support Grissom's theory.  But the more Grissom, Warrick &amp; Nick got to know Owen Pierce, the more determined they were to nail him - and to find the evidence that he was a lot more involved in his wife's disappearance than he claimed...<br />This is the second book in the CSI series written by Max Collins and it was just fabulous!  I love that Collins stays so true to the characters' personalities from the TV show so you feel that you are actually watching a CSI episode instead of reading a book written about it.  In fact, I feel that I am learning more about the characters because you can be so much more descriptive in a book when you are describing motivations and personality traits.  Collins is very detailed in his descriptions and I can visualize exactly how they would shoot the episode for TV.  The mysteries were great and dealt with exactly the kind of plots that would happen in the regular series.  If you enjoy the TV series, you should love these books!found a piece of Lynn Pierce.  The husband had something to do with it, but they couldn't find any evidence at the Pierce's to support Grissom's theory.  But the more Grissom, Warrick &amp; Nick got to know Owen Pierce, the more determined they were to nail him - and to find the evidence that he was a lot more involved in his wife's disappearance than he claimed...<br />This is the second book in the CSI series written by Max Collins and it was just fabulous!  I love that Collins stays so true to the characters' personalities from the TV show so you feel that you are actually watching a CSI episode instead of reading a book written about it.  In fact, I feel that I am learning more about the characters because you can be so much more descriptive in a book when you are describing motivations and personality traits.  Collins is very detailed in his descriptions and I can visualize exactly how they would shoot the episode for TV.  The mysteries were great and dealt with exactly the kind of plots that would happen in the regular series.  If you enjoy the TV series, you should love these books!	2003-12-26
US	46905518	RSQALWYLXD24D	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Another Wonderful Chalion Adventure!	Paladin of Souls picks up three years after The Curse of Chalion, when the dreadful curse that plagued Chalion's rulers was lifted.  Dowager Royina Ista is fed up with her padded prison at Valenda and is ready to live again.  When her mother finally passes on, the 40-year old Ista seizes the chance to go on a religious pilgrimage around Chalion.  Ista is not particularly interested in the gods, as they have so long ignored her prayers, but it soon turns out that the gods are not quite through with her and still need her to accomplish a task for them.  Ista tries to resist becoming what she sees as a pawn, but the gods have ways of getting you to cooperate...<br />Ista soon finds herself in Porifors, a fortress on the border of Chalion that has long kept the enemy Roknari at bay.  Ista cannot be comfortable there, however, as it is the home of the dy Lutez family, the family that Ista and her husband had so grievously wronged years ago.  But comfortable or not, Ista finds herself embroiled in the dy Lutez family's problems and finds herself strongly attracted to both Arhys dy Lutez, the dashing young commander, and Illvin dy Lutez, Arhys' half-brother, who lies still and cold on his bed, stricken with some unknown malady.  Seeing her chance to assist the dy Lutez family, as they had tried to assist her while she was the Royina, Ista reluctantly begins using her god-given gifts and finds that there are many sinister plans afoot in this forgotten corner of the Chalion empire...<br />Although Paladin of Souls is a sequel to The Curse of Chalion, it is not a traditional sequel in that the stars of The Curse of Chalion are mentioned only briefly here and the peripheral characters are given a chance to shine.  Ista was a wonderful character to get to know and I felt that I understood the choice she made in The Curse of Chalion much better now that I have learned more about her personality.  It was also fun to see Ferda and Foix, seen in the first book, pop up again and have a more prominent role.  I also loved the fact that Bujold chose to write this story to help give closure to those who were wronged from the curse in the first book, specifically Ista and the dy Lutez family.  It does a great job at wrapping up those little loose ends that otherwise would just be left alone.  Although I still rated it at 5 stars, The Paladin of Souls is not as good as The Curse of Chalion, but Bujold is such a wonderful author that I loved this book anyway.  For whatever reason, I did not connect to the characters as strongly and the story dragged in a few places, but it was still a wonderful fantasy adventure!e a more prominent role.  I also loved the fact that Bujold chose to write this story to help give closure to those who were wronged from the curse in the first book, specifically Ista and the dy Lutez family.  It does a great job at wrapping up those little loose ends that otherwise would just be left alone.  Although I still rated it at 5 stars, The Paladin of Souls is not as good as The Curse of Chalion, but Bujold is such a wonderful author that I loved this book anyway.  For whatever reason, I did not connect to the characters as strongly and the story dragged in a few places, but it was still a wonderful fantasy adventure!	2003-12-19
US	46905518	R31SHBYXGRJEA6	0971577838	464783368	Selling Used Books Online: The Complete Guide to Bookselling at Amazon's Marketplace and Other Online Sites	Books	4	45	47	N	Y	Some Excellent Advice for the New &amp; Experienced Seller!	Stephen Windwalker has written a very good how-to guide on selling used books online, specifically on Amazon.com's own website.  He begins with a brief section that must be required for any author to write if they are writing about something entrepreneurial - is this business for you? and continues with a brief overview of the bookselling business in general.  Then he walks the beginners through setting up an account online so that you can begin selling.  The middle section was one of the strongest with sections on suppliers &amp; sources (who to buy from, how to find suppliers, mailing materials, etc.), building your inventory: where to get your books, which contains some interesting ideas as to where to go to buy the books (libraries, garage sales, dumpster diving, local churches, etc.), and what books to get, which provided some excellent advice, especially for beginners, on what books to avoid purchasing because they do not sell well or there is a big glut in the market for ($0.01 book, anyone?).  I feel that these chapters in the middle would be a great reminder and resource for anyone who is already selling, as well.  Still, take the author's advice with a grain of salt because I have been quite successful doing some of the things that the author encourages sellers to avoid.  The author then continues with basic selling advice including where to sell your books, grading &amp; describing your books, and posting and pricing your books, all of which are pretty obvious to the experienced seller, but may be of use to newer sellers.  Probably my favorite section was on book repairs, which was by no means extensive, but did provide some good, basic tips on what to do with books that are slightly damaged so that you can maximize your profit from them.  The end section is mainly for serious sellers, as it contains sections on business organization, taxes, dreams of getting bigger, and some fulfillment &amp; customer service advice.<br />Again, I would recommend this book to beginning sellers as it does answer quite a few questions that they may have and experienced sellers will find some value in there as well, but it is a pretty expensive trade paperback so if you already know what you are doing, you may not feel that you are getting your money's worth.  My only complaint with the book is that the author doesn't deal with a few issues that I feel are very important if you are going to be selling on Amazon.com's marketplace.  The number one thing that he didn't deal with is the shipping charges issues, as in Amazon keeping $1+ per transaction as &quot;shipping charges&quot; that the seller never sees, but the buyer is always complaining about.  It would have been nice for him to go over this, or at least mention it, as it is one of the most difficult things for new sellers to understand.  A few more specific tips would have made this book a 5 star instead of a 4.ook to beginning sellers as it does answer quite a few questions that they may have and experienced sellers will find some value in there as well, but it is a pretty expensive trade paperback so if you already know what you are doing, you may not feel that you are getting your money's worth.  My only complaint with the book is that the author doesn't deal with a few issues that I feel are very important if you are going to be selling on Amazon.com's marketplace.  The number one thing that he didn't deal with is the shipping charges issues, as in Amazon keeping $1+ per transaction as &quot;shipping charges&quot; that the seller never sees, but the buyer is always complaining about.  It would have been nice for him to go over this, or at least mention it, as it is one of the most difficult things for new sellers to understand.  A few more specific tips would have made this book a 5 star instead of a 4.	2003-12-18
US	46905518	R30K5YVNTGAOMT	0590427490	239712345	The Secret Window	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Meg's Dreams Were Coming True...	Meg has a secret that she has never told anyone.  She has weird dreams - dreams that actually come true!  Meg is sure that if she tells anyone, even her big brother, they will think she is crazy.  All that Meg wants is to be normal, but with her special \\"gift\\" she knows that that is not possible.  Then her father leaves her family to go focus on his writing.  Meg is devastated and feels that her family will never recover.  Her brother even thinks about turning down his scholarship to help out by working to earn some money!<br />Meg turns to her best friend for help, but she is too involved with trying to become popular.  When Meg leaves a party that she saw in her dreams, she is shunned by her friends and so she turns to her new neighbor, a different kind of girl who also comes from a divorced family.  She starts helping Meg accept who she really is and making her feel comfortable with being different.  But when one of Meg's bad dreams, a dream about someone drowning, come true, will Meg be willing to risk exposing her secret to save someone's life?<br />This is a fun, fast read for teens and older children.  It was one of my favorite series when I was growing up because Meg has her special dreaming power, which I thought was very cool.  It is also very clean and deals with a lot of important issues that cause a great amount of disruption in family life, such as divorce, peer pressure, drug use, etc.  Betty Ren Wright is a great author and has a nice, smooth writing style.  If you enjoy this book, check out the rest of the books in this series, they are all great!	2003-12-10
US	46905518	RCY7H8FL3FZOM	0152046151	973407263	Sorcery and Cecelia or The Enchanted Chocolate Pot	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	An Absolutely Charming Regency Fantasy!	Sorcery & Cecilia centers around two friends, Kate & Cecy, in Regency England.  Kate was lucky enough to be sent off with her Aunt Charlotte and cousin Georgina for her first London Season.  Well, her best friend Cecy thought she was lucky.  Cecy was stuck in the country with her domineering Aunt Elizabeth and her brother Oliver.  But Kate would like nothing more than to be at home rather than have to endure her London season as a wallflower.  But when Kate accidentally triggers a trap set for the mysterious Marquis of Schofield, she becomes quite popular.  Unfortunately the odious Marquis refuses to answer Kate's questions about who the witch was who tried to poison her and why she hates the Marquis so intensely.<br />Meanwhile, back in the country, Cecy is hot on the trail of the intolerable James Tarleton, who seems determined to spy out her beautiful new neighbor & friend at every opportunity. She is sure that James is up to no good and also suspects him of planting the magical herb bag under her brother Oliver's bed. James fobbs her off with some haphazard excuse and keeps on following her neighbor. But Cecy is not one to give up so easily and sneaks into Sir Hilary Bedrick's estate and \\"borrows\\" a book on magical bags. Surprisingly enough, Cecy turns out to have a marked talent for creating the bags and quickly makes bags of protection for Kate and Oliver. But what the two girls don't realize is that their innocent actions have brought them to the attention of both Sir Hilary and Miranda Thomas, the witch who tried to trap Kate. Neither one of them knows what is going on, but they recognize villains when they see them. Despite James & Thomas' best efforts, they cannot keep Cecy and Kate from rushing headlong into danger and solving their problems, even if they didn't ask for their assistance!<br />This is a fast paced, fun fantasy to read, especially if you are familiar with Regency England.  I have always enjoyed alternate history books and this was an intriguing look at what England would be like if magic was commonplace.  They even have a Royal College of Wizards in London!  Kate and Cecy were both charming heroines and it was very amusing to watch them run circles around Thomas and James and get everything figured out and solved almost before the men knew what was happening.  The authors chose a very interesting format for the book - it is all written in letter form.  Kate writes to Cecy and tells her everything that is going on in London and vice versa.  This was a very interesting approach and I enjoyed the very different personalities of the heroines, so ably portrayed by two different authors.  If you enjoy fantasy or Regency books, you should love this one!guing look at what England would be like if magic was commonplace.  They even have a Royal College of Wizards in London!  Kate and Cecy were both charming heroines and it was very amusing to watch them run circles around Thomas and James and get everything figured out and solved almost before the men knew what was happening.  The authors chose a very interesting format for the book - it is all written in letter form.  Kate writes to Cecy and tells her everything that is going on in London and vice versa.  This was a very interesting approach and I enjoyed the very different personalities of the heroines, so ably portrayed by two different authors.  If you enjoy fantasy or Regency books, you should love this one!	2003-12-10
US	46905518	R1KYKG9IWMDLJ6	0425191788	301916690	Sunshine	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Disappointing, But McKinley Is Still Worth Reading!	Sunshine just needed some time alone.  She knew that she should stay at her family's movie night and snuggle with her boyfriend, but she knew that she couldn't play nice for that long.  So she headed out to the lake to sit and think.  Sunshine hadn't gone to the lake in a long while, but she used to go out there with her grandmother when she was little.  Everyone knew that the lake wasn't safe, that dark things and bad spots were out there, but there hadn't been any reports of someone getting attacked in a while so Sunshine felt safe.  Until the vampires came.  She never even heard them coming, but then, you never do.<br />Sure that she would never last the night, Sunshine was stunned to discover that the vampires were giving her to another vampire as a kind of meal.  This vampire was imprisoned and so he couldn't hunt for himself.  But what was it about the imprisoned vampire that made the other pack fear him so?  After Sunshine got over her fear of being chained in a room with a vampire, she discovered that his name was Constantine and there was something different about him.  When Sunshine realizes that Constantine cannot go another night without feeding off of her, she determines to rescue both Con and herself from the vampire pack.  Surprisingly enough, Sunshine succeeds, and ends up in ever more trouble than she was in when she was chained to the wall...<br />This was a difficult book for me to get into.  I didn't really identify with the heroine and found that I didn't really like her very much or understand her choices.  It is also written in a kind of stream of consciousness style that can be disorienting.  I did enjoy Sunshine's descriptions of her life and her job as the best cinnamon roll baker in the area, but the world that she lived in is still kind of hazy to me.  I don't really understand it and cannot really describe how the rules have changed in their world versus our world.  This sense of mystery isn't all bad, after all, Patricia McKillip does it beautifully, but it made the story difficult to understand.  There really isn't an end, either and I hope for a sequel, but am pretty sure that we won't get one as McKinley rarely revisits the same world, The Hero &amp; the Crown &amp; The Blue Sword notwithstanding.  Sunshine reminded me a lot of Spindle's End, but in a different setting, actually.  There is a lot of normal life that goes on in between the big events and you never really get the chance to warm up to the characters.  Is it worth reading?  I would say yes.  But I am not saying that it is worth buying, per se.  I think anything that Robin McKinley writes is worth reading, but this is not one of my treasures.it beautifully, but it made the story difficult to understand.  There really isn't an end, either and I hope for a sequel, but am pretty sure that we won't get one as McKinley rarely revisits the same world, The Hero &amp; the Crown &amp; The Blue Sword notwithstanding.  Sunshine reminded me a lot of Spindle's End, but in a different setting, actually.  There is a lot of normal life that goes on in between the big events and you never really get the chance to warm up to the characters.  Is it worth reading?  I would say yes.  But I am not saying that it is worth buying, per se.  I think anything that Robin McKinley writes is worth reading, but this is not one of my treasures.	2003-12-10
US	46905518	R2SISBG65MQVXM	0064473791	893718828	The Books of Magic #1: The Invitation	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Probably a Better Comic Book Than YA Novel	Timothy Hunter is a typical 13-year old boy, living in London with his uncaring father and worrying about looking cool and how to ride his skateboard better when four trenchcoated strangers appear.  Turns out that Tim could be the most powerful magician of all time, but he has to choose whether he wants to live in the magical world or the unmagical one.  Seems like a simple choice, right?  But Tim is not sure which choice is correct, so he asks to see a sample of the magical world so that he knows what he is choosing.<br />First he travels to the past with the Stranger where he sees the creation of the Earth and different ages through time, including a meeting with Merlin.  Then he travels through the present with John Constantine, who whisks him off to New York City to have his fortune read and then to San Francisco to meet the world-famous magician Zatanna.  From there, Dr. Occult takes him to visit the world of Faerie where Tim is kidnapped by Baba Yaga and the Faerie Queen tries to keep him in her court.  Then Tim is on a trip to the future with Mister E, where he discovers what the future will be like if he turns to dark magic.  After his whirlwind trips to the 4 realms, Tim must decide if becoming a magician is worth the price that he must pay.<br />This was an okay story, but nothing really spectacular happens in it.  It feels like nothing happens, really, except Tim keeps going from place to place meeting new people and seeing new things.  I found that I didn't really care for Tim a whole lot and I certainly had no feelings for the 4 mysterious people who took him on his journeys, but maybe they are more developed in the next story.  Anyway, I am sure that the fantastic trips that Tim takes look much better in the comic book story, but they do not do as well here in this novelization.  I don't even really feel like it is the author's fault, necessarily, but with other books out there about teenage wizards (such as Harry Potter), this book really pales in comparison.parison.	2003-12-04
US	46905518	RS45CF9E8JSSQ	1557738718	350041435	The Haunting of Victoria	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An Enjoyable Gothic Romance, But Nothing Special	Anne Durham had lived her whole life with her eccentric painter father.  She didn't remember her mother, who died when she was young, and her older sister, Catherine, lived with her aunt and uncle, so she did not know her either.  So when her father suddenly dropped dead, Anne did not know what to do.  Her father had been on his way to Tavistock Castle, in Britain, to try and discover what had happened to Catherine, who had disappeared while excavating a dig there.  With no other recourse, Anne felt that a slight deception on her part was justified and she set sail for Tavistock Castle in her father's place.<br />When she arrived, the Marquess of Tavistock was upset that her father had not come for he was counting on his niece's love of art to cure her of her peculiar illness.  His niece had stopped speaking the night that Catherine disappeared and had strange fits and nightmares.  Anne was determined to get some answers, however, so she persuaded the Marquess to give her a trial time period so that she could prove that she was a talented painter as well.  Within a matter of days, Anne found herself embroiled in the peculiar events surrounding the estate.  She was convinced that the Marquess' niece could speak if she wanted to, but something kept her silent - maybe the mysterious masked &amp; cloaked figure who drifted into her room at night?  As Anne became more involved in the life of the Marquess &amp; his niece, she became more and more convinced that her sister had been the victim of foul play - but what role had the Marquess played in her disappearance?<br />This is a classic gothic romance with the dark, dangerous and brooding hero and the penniless, but talented young woman who is in terrible danger, but doesn't trust the man that she loves.  All of the pieces were there, but there was just nothing special about the story and I was not emotionally involved with the characters.  Still, it is well written and moves at a fairly brisk pace so it was a quick, fun read.  Easily read &amp; easily forgotten.read.  Easily read &amp; easily forgotten.	2003-12-04
US	46905518	R1J0JH7EH7689Q	0689855567	948772620	Snow	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A Rather Bizarre Retelling of Snow White	Jessica never really knew what it was like to have a family.  Her mother died giving birth to her and her father was not interested in having a daughter.  She saw her father once a year when he did his inspection and the rest of the time she had the run of the Welsh estate that belonged to the duke, her father.  More then a bit of a tomboy, Jessica did not come to the notice of her father and her coldly beautiful new stepmother until she accused one of the sons of the nobility of attacking her.  Suddenly, it was not okay for Jessica to run around playing with the other boys.  Instead, she was under the tutelage of her stepmother, who was determined to instruct her on everything she needed to know about being a lady.  However, her stepmother quickly grew jealous of Jess' beauty and, with her father gone, locked her away with only a few mice for company.  Warned by her stepmother's minstrel, Jess managed to flee for London when her stepmother's jealousy was replaced with the belief that she could only have a child if she had Jess' heart.<br />Jess was only in London for a few moments when all of her money was stolen.  Bereft and alone, she took refuge in an alley, until a cat-like girl attacked her and kidnapped her.  When Jess awoke she was stunned to see herself surrounded by a group of animal-like humans.  There was Chauncey, the rat-like leader of the ragtag band; Cat, the only girl who had attacked Jess in the alley and seemed determined to hate her; Sparrow, a short, plump boy who was very quiet; Raven, a tall, dark and handsome fellow who never seemed to say anything; and Mouser, who was as elegant as the high-born lords of London.  Jess, or Snow as she now called herself, settled into her peculiar new life and found that she was happier as a serving maid than as a duke's daughter.  But her stepmother did not give up easily and was ready to use any trick to get Jess to participate in her new \\"experiment\\"...<br />This was a very peculiar adaptation of Snow White, but it was still very enjoyable.  Snow herself is still much the same, but the 7 dwarfs are turned into the 5 Lonely Ones (the animal-like people described above), the magic mirror is the minstrel and the wicked stepmother is a scientist of sorts who actually created the Lonely Ones.  Even though the details of the story were quite different, it is still a happily ever after tale and I enjoyed the different twists and turns that the author took in creating the tale.  If you enjoy fairy tales, then you will enjoy this book!, but it was still very enjoyable.  Snow herself is still much the same, but the 7 dwarfs are turned into the 5 Lonely Ones (the animal-like people described above), the magic mirror is the minstrel and the wicked stepmother is a scientist of sorts who actually created the Lonely Ones.  Even though the details of the story were quite different, it is still a happily ever after tale and I enjoyed the different twists and turns that the author took in creating the tale.  If you enjoy fairy tales, then you will enjoy this book!	2003-12-04
US	46905518	R15TQR7948DYXQ	075920604X	711337506	Diamonds and Pearls	Books	2	0	1	N	N	A Real Disappointment	Francesca Lucchese was a struggling student, barely making ends meet so she could maintain some sort of independence from her loving, but too protective family, when a lawyer changed her whole world.  Francesca was stunned to discover that she was the sole heiress to the sixty-plus million dollar fortune of the Bloodworths.  Turns out Mrs. Bergstrom, the widow of the last Bloodworth, left all of her estate to Francesca's father, Giovanni, who was her chauffeur for many years.  Francesca refuses to believe that her father had some kind of sordid affair with Mrs. Bergstrom, but she doesn't know how else to explain her sudden millionaire status.<br />Before she knows it, Francesca is living in the lap of luxury at Ca'ad Carlo, the Bloodworth Palm Beach house and she is definitely in over her head.  Mrs. Bergstrom's widower lives in one of the guest houses and Francesca finds herself falling head over heels for him, despite his terrible reputation.  The moneyed elite of Palm Beach want nothing to do with an upstart like her and the \\"new money\\" are willing to be friends, but with a price attached.  Then there is her disturbingly attractive bodyguard who refuses to believe that she can take care of herself.  However, the sweet, naive Francesca that inherited the fortune can only survive for so long in the debauched Palm Beach atmosphere and Francesca quickly finds herself involved in drugs, amazing sex, expensive luxury spas and other previously forbidden delights.  But everything has a price attached and soon Francesca finds herself fighting to save her fortune and to rediscover the person she really is.<br />This is the second Maggie Davis book that I have read and I was really disappointed.  I quite enjoyed the first book, it was nothing spectacular, but it was enjoyable and I thought the whole rags-to-riches Cinderella story contained in Diamonds & Pearls would be equally enjoyable.  What I found is a book that was more of a commentary on the excesses of the wealthy and what can happen to seemingly nice girls when they are thrown into the lion's den.  Francesca is a likable character and I was rooting for her the whole time, but about halfway through I realized that Francesca still didn't have a clue and wasn't going to figure it out.  So I slogged through the rest of the book and finally, on the last couple of pages, she gets it.  All I can say is, I am grateful that I read the book for free and didn't waste good money on this!  The only reason why I gave this book 2 stars is that Maggie Davis does have a nice writing style and some of the characters were interesting, otherwise it would be a 1 star book.  If you are a big Maggie Davis fan, find a library copy, otherwise skip it altogether!nd what can happen to seemingly nice girls when they are thrown into the lion's den.  Francesca is a likable character and I was rooting for her the whole time, but about halfway through I realized that Francesca still didn't have a clue and wasn't going to figure it out.  So I slogged through the rest of the book and finally, on the last couple of pages, she gets it.  All I can say is, I am grateful that I read the book for free and didn't waste good money on this!  The only reason why I gave this book 2 stars is that Maggie Davis does have a nice writing style and some of the characters were interesting, otherwise it would be a 1 star book.  If you are a big Maggie Davis fan, find a library copy, otherwise skip it altogether!	2003-12-02
US	46905518	R269I0JCMX05UT	0441010512	149624845	Club Dead (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Fun & Sexy - A Must Read for Vampire-Lovers!	Sookie Stackhouse had noticed a change in her boyfriend, Bill, a vampire.  Instead of spending his evenings with her, he has been spending them alone in his home working on something that he refuses to share with Sookie.  More than a little hurt that Bill doesn't completely trust her after all she has done for him, Sookie is less than pleased to find out that Bill has disappeared while on his \\"business trip\\" to Jackson, MI and that he has supposedly reunited with his ex, the lovely vampire Lorena.  Eric, Bill's sexy and oh-so-interested-in-taking-Bill's-place-in-Sookie's-life vampire boss, arranges for Sookie to go to Jackson and to find out what has happened to Bill.  Knowing that he cannot go along to protect her himself, Eric sends the very attractive werewolf, Alcide, to act as her bodyguard.<br />When Sookie gets to Jackson, Alcide helps her get into Josephine's, affectionately nicknamed \\"Club Dead\\" by regulars.  The club attracts a unique mixture of vampires, were-creatures and other supernaturals who don't always get along together.  Of course, Sookie attracts some unwanted attention and makes some new friends and enemies right off the bat.  She also finds out that Bill is in Jackson and that he is with Lorena.  Sookie is unsure if she even wants to keep looking for him after that piece of news, but she knows that she has to get Bill back so that Eric can get whatever information out of him that he needs.  So Sookie plunges into the fray and uses all of her considerable wiles to locate Bill, free him and then decide what she is going to do from there...<br />Club Dead is the third book in the Southern Vampire series and it is a great continuation of the hilarious and sexy world of Sookie Stackhouse.  The more books I read about Sookie, the more I like her.  She is a wonderful character and Harris portrays her very well.  She is much more complex than she seems and she always makes me laugh.  The plot was a little more convoluted than it needed to be, but it was all in good fun and it was such a fast, fun read that the book was over long before I was ready for it to end anyway.  Harris does leave the reader with a bit of a cliffhanger ending and so she leaves us panting for more and wondering what Sookie is going to do next!  A must read for Harris or vampire lovers - you won't be disappointed!was all in good fun and it was such a fast, fun read that the book was over long before I was ready for it to end anyway.  Harris does leave the reader with a bit of a cliffhanger ending and so she leaves us panting for more and wondering what Sookie is going to do next!  A must read for Harris or vampire lovers - you won't be disappointed!	2003-10-29
US	46905518	R306VPJTXZAKGJ	0345380649	19728066	The Wizard's Shadow	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Stunning Fantasy Adventure!	Crocken the peddler knew that he made a bad bargain the instant he agreed to the wizard's &quot;request&quot;, but he really had no choice.  If he did not agree to take the murdered wizard's shadow to the distant country of Armyn, the wizard would let him die of starvation.  Crocken grudgingly took the wizard's shadow instead of his own and set out to make the best of it.  With the shadow literally hounding his every step, Crocken made the long journey and finally arrived in the country of Armyn only to be faced with the seemingly impossible task of gaining entry into the fortress of Axe-Edge and gathering information from the royal court that resided there.  As luck would have it, Crocken managed to save a princess from a wild boar and he found himself hailed as a heroic merchant-adventurer, instead of a luckless peddler without a penny to his name.  Crocken thought that he had amply fulfilled his part of the bargain, but the shadow needed him and was not ready to release him.<br />So Crocken found himself drawn into the intrigues of the court and trying desperately to understand why the shadow bore such hatred for the steward-protector, Rhisiart, who seemed to be a noble and honorable man.  Nor could Crocken understand what Prince Kieron was.  He appeared to be a man, but evil deeds followed in his wake, always cleverly covered up by his mother, the dowager queen Sulien, but the court heard whispers of deaths and strange habits.  Then there was the lovely Mistress Ivy, handmaiden to the princess betrothed to Prince Kieron.  She seemed to be privy to more information that Crocken, but he was not sure if he wanted to be involved in her schemes, either.  As Crocken finds himself more and more involved in the lives of the ruling class of Armyn, he risks everything that he has to make a difference and to bring some sense of peace to the wizard's shadow so that they both can move on...<br />This was another wonderful book by Susan Dexter.  I simply loved the main characters and was definitely not ready to let them go - I would love a sequel to this book!  Anyway, it was also fun to find out that the princess was one of Tristan's daughters (The Ring of Allaire, The Sword of Calandra, and The Mountains of Channadran) so that we had a brief glimpse of what he was like as a father.  The plot flowed well and had plenty of intriguing little subplots to keep the reader occupied and busy trying to guess who was doing what and where to whom and why.  I inhaled the book and now will have to go back and enjoy it again!acters and was definitely not ready to let them go - I would love a sequel to this book!  Anyway, it was also fun to find out that the princess was one of Tristan's daughters (The Ring of Allaire, The Sword of Calandra, and The Mountains of Channadran) so that we had a brief glimpse of what he was like as a father.  The plot flowed well and had plenty of intriguing little subplots to keep the reader occupied and busy trying to guess who was doing what and where to whom and why.  I inhaled the book and now will have to go back and enjoy it again!	2003-10-29
US	46905518	R34P2T8ZYNWH5N	0002232308	11418013	The Sword of Calandra (The Winter King's War)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful Fantasy Adventure!	Tristan had succeeded where hundreds of other heroes and wizards has failed - he woke the lovely sleeping princess, found the tenth ring, and discovered that he was the rightful heir to the throne of Calandra.  Unfortunately, Tristan didn't get to ride off into the sunset and live happily ever after.  There were many nobles who disputed Tristan's right to the throne and were willing to wage war to get rid of him once and for all so they could go back to their petty squabbling over who would be king.  Also, in order to actually be able to sit on the throne, Tristan needed the sword of Calandra, or his crowning would also mean his death.  Too bad the sword disappeared into myth and legend centuries before...<br />In desperation, Tristan returns to the wizard's city of Kovelir to seek out Crewzel, a fortune teller to see if she could read anything more from her magical cards.  But Tristan was bitterly disappointed to discover that Crewzel had disappeared without a trace, even her beloved son did not know where she was.  Knowing full well that Crewzel would never go anywhere without her son, Tristan set out to find her while continuing his wizard's apprenticeship and searching the library for any references to the sword of Calandra.  But time was running out and Tristan knew that he had to gamble the future of the kingdom on one desperate attempt - to forge a new sword, a sword that would mean Tristan's death or victory...<br />The Sword of Calandra picks up where The Ring of Allaire ended, with Tristan and Elisena desperately fighting the evil forces of Nimir, the winter king.  Unlike most second books in a trilogy, this book actually had a purpose and a mystery to solve and it was another fun adventure to take with familiar characters.  I simply loved Dexter's characters and enjoyed seeing familiar faces and discovering what happened to secondary characters that were left behind in the Ring of Allaire.  Dexter presents a simple quest in a unique and memorable fashion and her bumbling hero, Tristan, always manages to make it through his challenges, despite his lack of confidence in himself.  I highly recommend this whole series, but you could read this book on its own and understand everything that is happening.  Fantasy fans should definitely check out Susan Dexter's writings - she is a real hidden treasure!and her bumbling hero, Tristan, always manages to make it through his challenges, despite his lack of confidence in himself.  I highly recommend this whole series, but you could read this book on its own and understand everything that is happening.  Fantasy fans should definitely check out Susan Dexter's writings - she is a real hidden treasure!	2003-10-29
US	46905518	R3OY7XPAAKJJF1	0595094473	234745140	Garden of Thorns	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Haunting Novel of Fatal Passion....	Mark Owen was excited that Hilary Chase had chosen to accept a position cataloguing the Coburg collecting in Fort Worth, TX, his hometown.  They had met on a previous dig in Scotland (in Dust to Dust) and there was a definite attraction between the two.  Mark was trying to take things slowly so that Hilary would not be frightened of physical intimacy and men in general.  Hilary was trying to not be frightened of Mark and his need for a more physical relationship, but she still had not recovered from her rape years before.  As Mark and Hilary try to sort out boundaries in their relationship, they also become more involved in the history of the Osborne House, where two women had mysteriously died in murders that were never solved.  Mark was helping to supervise the dig and Hilary was cataloguing Coburg treasures, both of which had links in the past.  But someone did not want them to delve any deeper into the past and would stop at nothing, not even murder, to keep the past buried...<br />Garden of Thorns was an entertaining gothic romance/mystery, but it was not of the same caliber as Ashes to Ashes or Dust to Dust, where we meet Mark and Hilary for the first time.  I didn't really have any feelings for the main characters and so wasn't really rooting for them to get together, but didn't mind if they did.  They mystery was really good, though.  In fact, Carl is very good at having a main mystery and then filling in the gaps of the story with a lot of little sub plots and secondary characters that really make the book enjoyable.  Also, Carl gives the reader some good background information on the Fort Worth area and educates the reader on archaeology and artifacts all without the reader even being aware that they are being taught, which is a nice side benefit.  If you enjoy romantic mysteries, you will enjoy this one, but keep in mind that her other romantic mysteries are much better.	2003-10-29
US	46905518	R2SGO1XTC0KSSI	0373263848	511972667	A Fool and His Honey (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 6)	Books	4	19	24	N	Y	Uninvited Murder...	Aurora 'Roe' Teagarden's day started out normally enough.  She woke up, ate breakfast, got ready for work, greeted Darius Quattermain who was delivering the firewood, and then watched incredulously as Darius proceeded to take off all of his clothes and dance naked in the yard.  After dealing with that unsettling incident, Roe is even more surprised when her husband's niece, Regina, arrives unannounced on their doorstep with her baby, Hayden in tow.  Southern hospitality being what it is, Roe felt that she had to offer a temporary refuge to the young woman and got her settled in the garage apartment.  But when Roe returned home from work, she found a dead man on the steps, a baby hidden under the bed, another man sleeping in her living room and no Regina.  As Roe and Martin try to discover what trouble Regina has gotten herself into now, they are led on a madcap journey to Martin's home town in Ohio and the small house where Martin grew up and Regina was living.  Instead of solving all of their problems, however, Martin and Roe find that they have stepped into a kidnapping/adoption/murder plot and do not know who to trust.  As the strain of attending to Hayden and learning more about Martin's secretive past begin to catch up to her, Roe is unsure of everyone and everything, except the fact that Regina has ruined her life!<br />A Fool and His Honey is the 6th book in the Aurora Teagarden series and I enjoyed it.  I have to admit that the ending was a real surprise, but the darker side of the mystery did not bother me.  In fact, I think it is good when characters change and mature and grow because it makes me feel that they are more like me.  I still love Harris' characters and I especially enjoyed Roe's attempts to take of the baby because she had always wanted a child but was so clearly clueless as to what to do with one.  The plot is fast paced and this is an easy, quick read.  If you have enjoyed any of Harris' other books, I think you will enjoy this one, but it does have a tear-jerker ending so be ready for it!oes have a tear-jerker ending so be ready for it!	2003-10-29
US	46905518	R3CL10MLOZWVBE	0002232294	301097416	The Ring of Allaire	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Beginning of a Wonderful Trilogy!	With master magician Blais dead, murdered by the evil wizard Nimir, bumbling apprentice Tristan was all that was left to carry on Blais' last quest - to find and awaken the princess of Allaire and thus save all of Calandra, or to fail and doom the kingdom to eternal winter.  Tristan felt ill equipped to rescue the princess, especially after hundreds of heroes and wizards, all better trained than he, had died in the attempt.  But Tristan loved his master too much to do nothing less than his very best so he started with the basics that the others discounted.  The first thing that Tristan had to recover was the legendary warhorse of Esdragon, Valadan, who had disappeared long ago.  Then he had to persuade the Heir to the Throne, Polassar, that his was not a fool's errand, but a true chance at victory to save the kingdom.  After he had gathered his companions, then Tristan had to find the location of the sleeping princess, somehow awaken her, find the tenth ring that was needed for the princess to use her powers, fight off jealous wizards, Nimir's Ice Hounds, and whatever other complications came along the way....<br />The Ring of Allaire is in many ways a simple fantasy tale retold, but in other ways it is new, fresh and fun.  There are also plenty of little surprises to keep the reader guessing, even though some things seem obvious to the reader before it is revealed in the book.  But, Dexter's characters are delightful and so fun to get to know and to travel with.  I love that Tristan tries really hard and sometimes succeeds and sometimes doesn't, but he always tries.  He seems like such a normal person and it is refreshing for the nice, normal guy to get ahead for once, instead of the brave, dashing hero.  A fast, fun read that kicks of a delightful trilogy - I highly recommend all of Dexter's books!	2003-10-29
US	46905518	R2YXTPFLKA5NM2	0345319761	662812274	The Mountains of Channadran (Winter King's War, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful End to a Great Trilogy!	Tristan, apprentice wizard and newly crowned King of Calandra should have been able to rest on his laurels.  After all, he had found the ring of Allaire and woken the sleeping princess, winning her as his bride and then he found the lost sword of Calandra, which enabled him to be crowned.  But with Nimir, Lord of Winter, Ice &amp; Storm, determined to take over all of the continent, Tristan knew that he had to so something before his beautiful land turned into a land of frost and snow.  With his beloved Elisena by his side, as well as a few faithful companions, Tristan set out to do the impossible - confront Nimir on his own ground.  Throughout his adventures, Tristan would make new friends, confront old enemies, and accomplish the impossible while failing at simple tasks all while Nimir waited on his mountain, plotting and planning his next attack...<br />This is the wonderful conclusion to Dexter's The Winter War trilogy begun with The Ring of Allaire and The Sword of Calandra.  Tristan is such a great character to get to know and I felt like I knew him and was learning and growing with him while I was reading about his adventures.  Susan Dexter really made me care for her characters and I am sad that the adventure is over, but I know that I will go back and reread and reenjoy this trilogy for many years to come!  If you enjoy fantasy at all, you definitely should check out this series as it has all of the hallmarks of classic fantasy at its best.	2003-10-23
US	46905518	R23XIEI5FC6HMS	0595094465	401812699	Dust to Dust	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Romantic Ghost Story!	Rebecca Reid and Dr. Michael Campbell met while they were cataloguing Dun Iain's artifacts in the book Ashes to Ashes.  After months of long-distance dating, Rebecca was thrilled to be working with Michael on a dig in Scotland at the Rudesburn Priory in Eidon Hills.  It was rumored that the abbey's last prioress, Marjory Douglas, still haunted its halls and that Robert the Bruce's heart was buried there and never found.  Leading a group of archeology students, Rebecca was eager to uncover the priory's treasures, mythical or no.  She was also eager to determine what exactly her relationship with Michael was.  However, their relationship was immediately strained when Sheila Fitzgerald, Michael's ex, showed up at the dig to film the entire event.  When Sheila was found murdered a few days later, apparently with Michael's own knife, Rebecca finds herself doubting her relationship with Michael.  Oh, she knows that he didn't do it, of course, but she has no idea who did.  Was it Adele Garity, an older woman who went back to school who is obsessed with New Age philosophies; Dennis Tucker, an overweight student with his own hidden agenda; Jeremy Kleinfelter, Sheila's current lover, the leader of the dig whose reputation is on the line after he as accused of salting his previous dig?  Or was it someone else entirely?  As Rebecca works to solve the mystery before Michael is arrested, she also has to try and council Hilary Chase, a rape victim and help her get involved in her first relationship since with Mark Owen, a fellow student.  As more and more revelations come to light, Rebecca discovers that she doesn't really know anyone on the dig, including herself...<br />Dust to Dust is a wonderful sequel to Ashes to Ashes.  It is not necessary to read Ashes to Ashes, though, as Carl does a fine job about giving the reader a little bit of background if they are not familiar with the story.  Still, Ashes to Ashes is a great book so I recommend you read it.  I loved this one even more than Ashes to Ashes, though, as it had more of a romance story in it.  Rebecca and Michael are in that interesting stage of a relationship where they are serious enough to have to determine if what they have is worth taking to the next level or if they should just give up on the whole thing.  It was also wonderful to have a dig in Scotland as the backdrop.  I particularly enjoyed learning about Scottish history and the archaeological aspects were fascinating.  The book is a wonderful read and I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys romantic mysteries!ore than Ashes to Ashes, though, as it had more of a romance story in it.  Rebecca and Michael are in that interesting stage of a relationship where they are serious enough to have to determine if what they have is worth taking to the next level or if they should just give up on the whole thing.  It was also wonderful to have a dig in Scotland as the backdrop.  I particularly enjoyed learning about Scottish history and the archaeological aspects were fascinating.  The book is a wonderful read and I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys romantic mysteries!	2003-10-23
US	46905518	R2UZ7YF85IDF3X	1582005648	576257568	Millennium Magic (Romance Anthology) [3 1/2 Diskete, HTML]	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Some Good, Some Bad, Mostly Average	Millennium Magic is a collection of 6 stores written by 6 different authors.  It includes:<br />'The Colored World' by Roberta Gellis - Michael Curlew has lived his whole life in shades of grey and has no idea what colors are, until he is mysteriously transported to Una Teague's world, where everything is bursting with color.  Michael wants nothing more than to stay with Una, but he cannot leave his mother behind alone and his presence in Una's world seems to threaten its very existence!<br />'Black Satin at Midnight' by Robin Bayne - Luke Carver spotted the petite siren right away at the New Year's Eve party and managed to get his midnight kiss from her, but then she disappeared.  Resigned to never finding the mysterious woman, Luke is stunned to realize that Cara Janson is his daughter's new teacher.  Luke tries to persuade Cara that they have a future together, but Cara is convinced that the world is going to end on the stroke of midnight, 2000.<br />'The Bride Seeker' by Jackie Kramer - Sydney Parker was furious at her boss' attitude that she should let all of the credit go to her younger, male coworker because she was just going to get married and have babies soon anyway.  Sydney was perfectly capable of taking care of herself, thank you very much!  So when a drop-dead gorgeous hunk drops in from the future, claiming that she is his perfect mate, Sydney isn't buying it.  There is more to love than protection, support and sex.  Determined to win her, Srgt. Drake Fremont persuades Sydney to teach him how to woo a woman, all the while trying to get her to stay in his world...<br />'The First of Someday' by Jane Bierce - Doreen Madison had been married to a wonderful man for 21 years.  But when he grew ill and died, leaving Doreen behind with some wonderful children and no money, Doreen just retreated into a safe little world and put her dreams aside.  She didn't want to go to the New Year's Eve party with her daughter and son-in-law, but didn't want to let them down.  At the party, she met the handsome Lance Hoffman, a coworker of her son-in-law who seemed to be interested in her.  But she was much too old for him and had put all of her dreams on hold, hadn't she?<br />'The Love Bug' by Diana Kirk - Katie O'Keefe sent all of her coworkers home to enjoy the holidays with their families and stayed to wait for the computer expert to show up to keep their whole system from crashing on New Year's Eve.  She wasn't expecting the computer repair guy to be such a hunk, though!  If Katie hadn't promised her best friend to go to a party with her, she would throw it all aside for some more time with the sexy stranger.  But he didn't even seem to be interested in her - she didn't even know his name!<br />'The Ghost of Love' by Jane Toombs - Lilibeth Spencer, named for her great-aunt, had finally come home to the Spencer mansion.  She thought she had left all of her bittersweet memories behind when she moved away to college, but after seeing Ross Collins again, it was like no time had passed at all.  With her Aunt Lilibeth's ghost urging Beth to follow her heart and marry for love, Beth starts doubting her choice of fiances and has to do some serious soul-searching to decide who is the right man for her...<br />All six of the stories were pretty well written, but some of them were much more entertaining than others.  My favorite was 'The Colored World' just because it was such an interesting story, but there really wasn't much of a romance in it.  My favorite romance of the anthology was 'The Bride Seeker' because it had a sexy, futuristic hero who as trying so hard to be what the heroine wanted, but had no clue!  I also enjoyed 'The Love Bug' and 'The Ghost of Love', but they were both so short that it was hard to really feel anything for the characters.  'Black Satin at Midnight' is the most dated of the stories as the heroine's fears about the world coming to an end seem far fetched and laughable.  'The First of Someday' was the weakest of the anthology, though, with a 'poor-me' heroine who couldn't attract a handsome, younger man if her life depended on it!  It was an average anthology with a few stand out moments, but nothing special.t of the anthology, though, with a 'poor-me' heroine who couldn't attract a handsome, younger man if her life depended on it!  It was an average anthology with a few stand out moments, but nothing special.	2003-10-21
US	46905518	R3TO7DALCIWVPD	074342221X	555906109	Beauty Sleep	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Charming Retelling of the Classic Fairy Tale	For years the king and queen had despaired of ever having a child so when Aurore arrived, the whole kingdom rejoiced.  Well, almost everyone.  There was one forgotten, embittered woman who resided at court who seized the opportunity to curse the sleeping baby and then disappeared.  Aurore grew up with the curse overshadowing all of her days.  Her parents were determined to protect her and so limited her activities to those that did not involve any sharp, pointed objects.  Forbidden princesslike tasks of embroidery and sewing, her parents tried to interest Aurore in painting and weaving, both of which Aurore hated.  But she hated her cousin, Oswald, nicknamed Charming, because he wasn't, even more.  Until Oswald persuaded her parents to let her roam outside, then she loved him.  Aurore was content to live her life the way that she grew up, carefully avoiding anything that would trigger the curse, but the backlash of magic that her avoidance cost her kingdom was too high.  Aurore knew that her only chance was to run away to La Foret, the forbidden forest and hopefully take the magic with her.  Unbeknownst to Aurore, however, was the fact that time moves quite differently in the forest.  So when she meets a handsome stranger, nicknamed Ironheart, who has come to the forest to rescue a fair princess, she knows that he cannot be talking about her, can he?<br />This was an absolutely charming retelling of Sleeping Beauty that should delight young adult readers and adults everywhere.  Aurore was a great character - headstrong, but she loved her parents so much and tried so hard to be what they wanted.  I loved the description of her art and her lumpy rugs!  The author has so many little touches that she adds throughout the story to make the characters come alive and to breathe new life into the old fairy tale classic.  The ending is a big surprise and there are a lot of plot twists along the way, but, although difficult to accept at first, I find that I really enjoyed the author's creativity and unique adaptation of this fairy tale.  I look forward to reading more by her!author's creativity and unique adaptation of this fairy tale.  I look forward to reading more by her!	2003-09-26
US	46905518	R36Z0MW8RL9S1	0345393457	895124110	True Knight	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another Wonderful Book by Susan Dexter!	Titch had trained his whole life to become a knight.  If his father, a knight, hadn't died suddenly, he felt sure that he would have become a knight's squire and eventually a knight himself.  However, his father passed away while Titch was young and so Titch had to train himself and enter whatever contests he could to win arms, armor and other knightly accoutrements.  Titch finally felt that he was ready to strike out on his own and travel to some of the tourneys in outlying areas to make a name for himself and eventually win his knighthood.  Unfortunately, Titch made the mistake of challenging Gerein, a knight riding the most amazing horse that Titch had ever seen, and lost.  Gerein could have demanded Titch's arms, armor and horse in exchange, but he did not.  Before he knew it, Titch found himself covering for Gerein and eventually taking an arrow and a spear in the side for him.<br />Luckily, Wren, an apprentice magician and shape shifter, and her master, Galvin, found Titch as he lay dying and were able to nurse him back to health.  When Titch was healed, he hunted Gerein down to force the truth out of him.  Due to one misadventure after another, Titch soon finds himself employed in the terrible queen's guard with Gerein, forced to guard the wizards who had saved his life while they sought out the queen's son who had been magically turned into a swan.  Along the way, Titch finds out that Wren is much more than a simple apprentice and Gerein's masterful horse is definitely more than he seems...<br />This is the third book in the Warhorse of Esdragon series and it is my favorite after the Prince of Ill Luck (the first in the series).  All three books, the Prince of Ill Luck, the Wind Witch, and the True Knight are stand alone books in that they deal with completely different characters each time so anyone can pick up The True Knight and enjoy it.  The common thread between the three is Valadan, the magical warhorse of Esdragon, and the geographical settings.  The characters in this book were just delightful and Titch tried so hard to be a knight and to hold to the ways of honor as he had been taught, even when circumstances deemed otherwise.  Although the reader knows who Wren is from very early on, she too is a delightful character and it is fun to watch her progression and to see how she discovers her true identity.  The plot had a nice smooth progression and Susan Dexter's wonderful sly sense of humor is much in evidence (though not so much as in The Prince of Ill Luck).  I highly recommend this book to any fantasy lover - I simply cannot believe that it is out of print!  Also, whatever happened to this author?  I have read everything she has written and am waiting for more!characters in this book were just delightful and Titch tried so hard to be a knight and to hold to the ways of honor as he had been taught, even when circumstances deemed otherwise.  Although the reader knows who Wren is from very early on, she too is a delightful character and it is fun to watch her progression and to see how she discovers her true identity.  The plot had a nice smooth progression and Susan Dexter's wonderful sly sense of humor is much in evidence (though not so much as in The Prince of Ill Luck).  I highly recommend this book to any fantasy lover - I simply cannot believe that it is out of print!  Also, whatever happened to this author?  I have read everything she has written and am waiting for more!	2003-09-26
US	46905518	R260KSOG50F0YJ	1592249817	938966214	Time Enough to Die	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Missing That Little Spark of Romance...	Matilda Gray, a parapsychologist, was used to the skeptical reactions she got from people when she explained what she could do.  It is true that she was top ranked in her field and was an expert on antiquities, especially Roman and Celtic artifacts, but that doesn't mean she was respected.  When Scotland Yard asks Matilda to work with a detective, Gareth March, to solve the murder of a woman and find out who was stealing artifacts from a new dig, Matilda was intrigued.  She also despised those who stole artifacts that belonged in a museum and was excited to discover the history of the Roman fort that she would helping to excavate.<br />When Matilda arrived at Corcester, she knew that the case was going to be harder to break than she thought.  First off, she had to work with the pompous head of the dig, Howard Sweeney, who always seems to get the credit for others' hard work.  Because Howard does his best to avoid work in any way shape or form, Matilda is stuck looking after the student volunteers.  She cares for all of them, but she is particularly concerned about the lovely young Ashley Walraven, who seems to have taken up with a wanderer who could potentially be the murderer.  Then Matilda has to deal with the belligerent owner of a nearby horse farm, who owns the land they are excavating, and is in it for the money.  It wouldn't be so bad if she could get Gareth to believe in her visions of the past and to work with her instead of going off on his own and not telling her vital information.  With so many suspects, her work and her disturbingly realistic visions of the Roman fort when it was still in use centuries ago, Matilda will have a hard time catching the killer before he or she strikes again...<br />I enjoyed this mystery, as I have enjoyed all of Lillian Stewart Carl's books, but I have to say that I feel that this was her weakest book by far.  The mystery had great potential and was set in an archaeological dig - one of my favorite locales - but it just wasn't used very much in the story.  Carl did such a great job incorporating the mystery in Dust to Dust on an archeological dig and so I was expecting something equally fabulous.  Carl did provide a lot of information regarding Roman and Celtic artifacts and managed to sneak in quite a few points of history so the story is actually quite educational, but it can get a bit dull on the longer passages.  Although Matilda and Gareth are the main characters, we also see the story from Ashley's point of view, and I didn't particularly enjoy the multiple points of view.  Gareth was drawn to Matilda, but she was quite a bit older than he and had that power, so they never really got together.  Theirs was more of a promise of romance that may have come about in a physical way, but never went anywhere else.  Ashley had a couple of love interests, which were kind of interesting, but she was pretty naive and socially inept so it was more like reading about a teenager.  While I wish I could recommend this book wholeheartedly, I find that I can only recommend it as an interesting mystery with some historical background thrown in for good measure.  Also, although the book is well written at the exorbitant price that you have to pay for this book, I would say go and find a nice copy of Ashes to Ashes and Dust to Dust, both by Lillian Stewart Carl, and both of which are much better than this one (not to mention a whole lot cheaper!).wasn't used very much in the story.  Carl did such a great job incorporating the mystery in Dust to Dust on an archeological dig and so I was expecting something equally fabulous.  Carl did provide a lot of information regarding Roman and Celtic artifacts and managed to sneak in quite a few points of history so the story is actually quite educational, but it can get a bit dull on the longer passages.  Although Matilda and Gareth are the main characters, we also see the story from Ashley's point of view, and I didn't particularly enjoy the multiple points of view.  Gareth was drawn to Matilda, but she was quite a bit older than he and had that power, so they never really got together.  Theirs was more of a promise of romance that may have come about in a physical way, but never went anywhere else.  Ashley had a couple of love interests, which were kind of interesting, but she was pretty naive and socially inept so it was more like reading about a teenager.  While I wish I could recommend this book wholeheartedly, I find that I can only recommend it as an interesting mystery with some historical background thrown in for good measure.  Also, although the book is well written at the exorbitant price that you have to pay for this book, I would say go and find a nice copy of Ashes to Ashes and Dust to Dust, both by Lillian Stewart Carl, and both of which are much better than this one (not to mention a whole lot cheaper!).	2003-09-25
US	46905518	R2O78V261AMGXY	1586080814	581771756	Teasing Danger (Futuristic Romance)	Books	4	43	43	N	N	Great Fantasy Romance!	Jasmine and Wiley grew up in an orphanage together and were like sisters. Jasmine knew that Wiley would never leave without telling Wiley where she was going so she was concerned when she couldn't find her. Jasmine found Wiley's campsite, but no Wiley. What she did find was the most handsome man she had ever seen - too bad he had such an attitude! Still, he claimed to know where Wiley was and that she wanted to see Jasmine so Jasmine risked going with him. They crossed through some sort of portal and Jasmine immediately regretted it when she was surrounded by wolves. She tried to escape, but Keilor, the sexy man, made it very clear that if she didn't stay with him, she was dead.<br />When Jasmine finally reached Wiley, whom everyone there called Rihila, she was astonished to discover that she was married to the king of the Haunt. Apparently Wiley was a member of the royal family and was stolen from her family when she was a child. Wiley appeared to be terrified of her husband and eager to return home so Jasmine set out to find a way to get them both out of this mess. Unfortunately, Jasmine quickly discovered that Keilor wasn't letting her go anywhere. Every time she tried to escape, he would 'punish' her by making her want him so bad and then walking away. She also found out that she was a sylph and had a pheromone that was irresistible to the men of the Haunt. Even though Jasmine found herself falling in love with Keilor and wanting to be with her friend, could she really stand to live with a race that turned into part man/part wolf?<br />This was a great fantasy romance with memorable characters. Jasmine was a very strong-willed heroine, sometimes too headstrong really, but she was definitely not about to let Keilor get away with anything. I loved Keilor's character though. He is an alpha male all the way and was a great example of the Haunt men. Autumn Dawn has created an intriguing world with a lot of potential. If you liked this book, check out Something Wild This Way Comes, a sequel to this book. It is not available on Amazon.com yet, but you can buy it as an ebook from the publisher or on the author's website. Happy reading!This Way Comes, a sequel to this book. It is not available on Amazon.com yet, but you can buy it as an ebook from the publisher or on the author's website. Happy reading!	2003-09-25
US	46905518	R1NCHBKF9MN5D0	1587153750	684879726	Shadows in Scarlet	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Entertaining Mystery with a Paranormal Twist!	Amanda Witham is a graduate student working Virginia's Melrose Hall.  She doesn't enjoy the heat of her authentic 18th century clothes, but she does enjoy playing the part of Sally, the plantation owner's daughter, while she takes tourists around the house.  Everything is running smoothly until the archaeologists find a skeleton buried in the garden.  That same night, Amanda sees a ghost in the hall and knows that it is James Grant, a dashing British soldier who mysteriously disappeared right before a local battle.  Suddenly, Amanda finds herself searching for James Grant instead of working on her thesis.  It is true that she hasn't had a boyfriend in a long while, and who can turn away such a dashing and handsome man?  Amanda finds herself romantically involved with a ghost - a ghost who wants to return to his native Scotland.<br />As Amanda flies to James' ancestral estate, which was inherited by his cousin upon his death about 150 years ago, Amanda has no idea what to expect.  She certainly doesn't expect the charming Malcolm, who is the spitting image of James.  She also doesn't expect to find such a disparity between James' version of his death and his cousin, Archibald's account.  Amanda begins to suspect that James is not quite the hero he has made himself out to be.  And, as she falls in love with Malcolm, she knows that she will have to find a way to exorcise James - or join him in the afterlife...<br />This was a very entertaining paranormal mystery with great characters and a wonderful setting.  I enjoyed learning about the Scottish regiments based in Virginia during the Revolutionary War and about that time period in general.  The author has a knack for slipping historical background information into the story without boring the reader, which was wonderful.  The characters were good - very strong and easy to empathize with.  I also enjoyed the sudden plot twist and Amanda's growing suspicions about James.  My only complaint with the book, aside from the cost, of course, was that the ending was quite abrupt.  There is a lot of action packed into the last 50 pages or so, which was quite startling considering the slow build up to James' appearance at the beginning of the book.  I would have liked to have seen more time in Scotland and more time between Amanda and Malcolm, rather than falling back on the old 'love at first sight' routine.  Still, it is a well written book with a nice little mystery that fans of Carl will enjoy and people who have never read anything by her should be excited to discover!cost, of course, was that the ending was quite abrupt.  There is a lot of action packed into the last 50 pages or so, which was quite startling considering the slow build up to James' appearance at the beginning of the book.  I would have liked to have seen more time in Scotland and more time between Amanda and Malcolm, rather than falling back on the old 'love at first sight' routine.  Still, it is a well written book with a nice little mystery that fans of Carl will enjoy and people who have never read anything by her should be excited to discover!	2003-09-25
US	46905518	RZFQI8FGA3QKA	0060096195	825975444	The Boy Next Door	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Fast, Fun Read!	Melissa \\"Call Me Mel\\" Fuller is the page 10 gossip columnist for the New York Journal and really wants to be able to write some serious editorials.  However, her editor won't let her because Mel is one of those people who actually cares about who Winona Ryder is dating.  But Mel thinks that she has a chance at selling a story to her editor when her elderly next-door neighbor, Mrs. Friedlander, is attacked, putting her in a coma in the hospital and making Mel late for work - for the 37th time that year!  Her editor doesn't buy it, which is too bad, because Mel could really use someone cutting her some slack.  After all, who else is going to walk Paco, Mrs. Friedlander's Great Dane, and feed her two cats?  Everyone at work tells Mel to stop being such a wimp and to dump the problem on Max Friedlander, her neighbor's playboy nephew.  So Mel drops the problem in Max's lap, who promptly turns to his old college friend, John Trent, who owes him a huge favor since he stopped him from marrying that stripper in Vegas.  John isn't too excited about posing as Max, even if it is only for a few days, until he meets Mel.  John is instantly attracted to her and can tell that she likes him, too.  There is just one problem - she thinks he is Max!<br />This book is just so fun to read!  I read it easily in one sitting and the whole thing just flew by.  The story is told in the form of emails as Mel writes her soon-to-be-married best friend, her best friend's chef of a fiance, the real Max, John the fake Max, the mean spirited human resource department at work, John's brother and sister-in-law, John's fabulously wealthy grandmother, Mrs. Friedlander's dog and cats, as well as a host of other zany characters who all seem to be way too interested in Mel's love life or lack thereof.  Anyway, you will love all of the characters as they are all real people going through those crazy things that life throws at you.  Mel is especially wonderful and it is so fun to see her personality shine through her emails rather than the author describing everything that is happening.  If you have enjoyed any of Cabot's other tales than you know how wonderful she is!  Do yourself a favor and buy this book!through her emails rather than the author describing everything that is happening.  If you have enjoyed any of Cabot's other tales than you know how wonderful she is!  Do yourself a favor and buy this book!	2003-09-25
US	46905518	R2NTH0BVHBF9J5	0440416027	460617729	Skellig	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Dreamily Unusual Children's Book...	Michael hadn't really wanted to move to the creepy old house on Falconer Road, but his parents were determined to have more space for their growing family.  The real estate agent had somehow convinced his parents that the old house was a real fixer upper and so Michael, instead of spending all day playing soccer with his friends, Leakey & Coot, was helping clear the garden and work on the house.  He knew that his parents were really worried about his new baby sister, who was born early and was not doing very well.  She was allowed to come home from the hospital, but had to return when she had trouble breathing.  His mom and dad could think of nothing but the baby and Michael was left to his own devices.<br />His parents warned him not to go into the rickety old garage left standing on the property, but Michael couldn't resist exploring.  What he found in the old garage astounded him - he found a kind of man in the corner.  The man didn't seem to be able to carry on a normal conversation and Michael wasn't sure what to do, but he brought him food and tried to talk to him.  Michael also made friends with Mina, the independent and free spirited girl who lived next door.  Mina was different than anyone else that Michael had ever known and he wasn't sure that was necessarily a good thing.  But Michael needed to know that he wasn't going crazy, so he showed the man to Mina.  Between Mina and Michael, they were able to give Skellig, the strangely winged man, a new chance at life and to change their own lives forever.<br />This was a fascinating book.  It is very different from most other children's books and did a superb job at conveying Michael's feelings of loneliness and alienation by the way that he described things in the story.  It was interesting to get to know Michael as he progressed from being worried about how the move affected his life to worrying about his new baby sister and whether she would ever be able to come home.  Skellig was a very different character and the reader never really does learn what or who he is.  It is like real life in that way, mysteries are not always solved and life is colored in shades of gray.  This is a great book for discussion with children or something that adults will enjoy reading on their own and thinking about.and the reader never really does learn what or who he is.  It is like real life in that way, mysteries are not always solved and life is colored in shades of gray.  This is a great book for discussion with children or something that adults will enjoy reading on their own and thinking about.	2003-09-12
US	46905518	RUPK108V2R9MG	075920554X	729650853	Jade Darcy and the Affair of Honor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fabulous Science Fiction Adventure!	Jade Darcy is a carc, a human/machine hybrid, on the run from her life back on Earth.  She has managed to find her way to Cablans, a planet in the far outreaches of the galaxy that she hopes is beyond the Dominion's notice.  She is the only human on the planet and enjoys the company of no one - except her trusty computer, Val.  Jade works as an arbiter/bouncer at an ingesterie/restaurant on Cablans and her alien clientele keep her busy.  Over the years, Jade has become familiar with the different races and knows who can sit by whom and who she should keep separated.  She knew that the Lemmant would be trouble when he was seated in her area.  He was seated next to a table of Commancors, vicious aliens who invaded and decimated worlds, including Lemmant.  Jade saved the Lemmant's life by mediating for him and dismissed him from her thoughts.  After all, she had more to worry about from the new human female on Cablans, a female named Megan Cafferty, who kept getting herself into trouble with the resident aliens due to cultural differences.  Jade liked Megan, which was unexpected and wasn't sure what she was up to.  She did know that she needed some time off of Cablans, just in case, so she took the Lemmant's job offer.<br />Jade traveled to Haldek with Fastal ip Fornen, where Fastal was determined to kill the Commancor commander in retribution for his family's brutal murder.  Jade kept trying to explain to Fastal that it wasn't worth it, but he was determined.  She had no idea that Fastal planned to leave his ceremonial dagger behind - in the dead Commancor's chest - a surefire way to make the Commancors hunt both Fastal and Jade down and kill them in a very painful way.  But Jade has started to come alive again after being with Fastal and Megan, both who live and love and care for others around them.  The awakening of feelings is very painful to Jade and she does her best to deny them.  But when tragedy befalls one of those whom Jade has painfully come to care for, Jade knows what she must do...<br />This was a simply wonderful book that I enjoyed immensely.  Jade Darcy is a strong female character who is starting to come alive again and she is very likeable.  She has weaknesses, which she is very aware of, and does her best to minimize them, but she doesn't let them cripple her.  It was very interesting to watch her interact with the aliens around her and to learn about the different races in the universe she lives in.  The plot was well paced with all kinds of sub plots to keep the reader busy and intriguing characters to watch over to try and guess their next move.  I highly recommend this book and it is available in ebook format so you don't have to hunt it down in a used bookstore if you don't want to.  I am excited to read the sequel, Jade Darcy &amp; the Zen Pirates and hope that you enjoy getting to know Jade as I did!de knows what she must do...<br />This was a simply wonderful book that I enjoyed immensely.  Jade Darcy is a strong female character who is starting to come alive again and she is very likeable.  She has weaknesses, which she is very aware of, and does her best to minimize them, but she doesn't let them cripple her.  It was very interesting to watch her interact with the aliens around her and to learn about the different races in the universe she lives in.  The plot was well paced with all kinds of sub plots to keep the reader busy and intriguing characters to watch over to try and guess their next move.  I highly recommend this book and it is available in ebook format so you don't have to hunt it down in a used bookstore if you don't want to.  I am excited to read the sequel, Jade Darcy &amp; the Zen Pirates and hope that you enjoy getting to know Jade as I did!	2003-09-12
US	46905518	R20AETGHFQY9R7	0671034928	138309114	Body Bags: A Body of Evidence Thriller #1	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Some Enjoyable Parts, But a Little Too Far-Fetched...	Jenna Blake is a brand new freshman at Somerset University in Massachusetts.  It was the first time that she would be away from her mother, but Jenna was excited to dive into college life.  She loved her new roommate, Yoshiko, and was happy to spend some more time with her father, a university professor of law, whom she hadn't seen very much after her parents divorced.  The only problem was that everyone kept pressuring her to decide what she wanted to major in and Jenna just didn't know.  She knew that her mom would love it if she became a surgeon, just like her, but she couldn't stand the sight of all of that blood coming out of live people.  When her father asked her if the blood was all that bothered her, she thought it was kind of weird, but, before she knew it, he had an interview all lined up with Dr. Walter Slikowski, Chief Medical Examiner with the county.  What was even weirder was that Jenna found that she was hired - and that she liked it!<br />None of her new friends could understand how Jenna could stand to have such a creepy job, but Jenna really got into it.  Her first autopsy was for a Nicholas Garson, a congressman's aide, who had suddenly gone berserk in a courthouse and killed a security guard.  When Professor Mattei, one of her father's good friends, died under the same bizarre circumstances, prompting the FBI and the CDC to start investigating, Jenna knew that there was a connection, but she didn't know what.  Jenna was determined to find out what happened to those people and quickly became a target herself in a winner takes all game set on the stage of international politics...<br />I enjoyed this book, but it just was a little too contrived and a little too far fetched for me to really believe.  The author's descriptions of the ME lab were fascinating and I felt that I learned quite a bit, but Jenna spends most of her time on campus going through normal college stuff, such as buying books, doing homework, etc.  She makes some pretty weird decisions, too, but I guess we all do at times.  I didn't really care too much for Jenna as a character, though, and wished that I felt more of a connection with her so that I cared what happened to her.  The other characters were a little stereotypical, too.  Still, it is the start of a promising new series and I think that I will give the next book, Thief of Hearts, a chance and see if I like it any better...isions, too, but I guess we all do at times.  I didn't really care too much for Jenna as a character, though, and wished that I felt more of a connection with her so that I cared what happened to her.  The other characters were a little stereotypical, too.  Still, it is the start of a promising new series and I think that I will give the next book, Thief of Hearts, a chance and see if I like it any better...	2003-09-12
US	46905518	RT1RSVBYDE8DT	0515103845	249814012	Follow That Blonde	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Light, Frothy Fun!	Lana Morton was on the trip of her dreams - a whirlwind tour of Greece, Italy, England, and more!  Too bad her drop dead gorgeous cousin, Nancy Bankes, decided to come along.  Well, actually Nancy wasn't too bad for all that she was incredibly beautiful.  Lana had a wonderful time until they hit Rome.  Rome wasn't quite what Lana expected and she hoped that that coin she threw in the Trevi fountain wouldn't really bring her back there.  Things got worse when Lana and Nancy ran into Bert Garr, an old high school classmate that they nicknamed \\"Pig Eyes.\\"  Bert seemed to be doing quite well for himself in Rome, however, and even took them to an exhibit of artists' work.  Lana couldn't believe that someone as talented as Nick Hansen was would ever consider using someone like Bert as his agent.  No accounting for taste...<br />Before Lana knew it, she was stuck with the gorgeous Nick (who had made it very clear that he was only with her as a favor to Bert) while Bert tried to pick up where he and Nancy left off in high school.  Then they missed their bus to the next city and all three ganged up on Lana to persuade her to stay in Nick's villa for a few days and rejoin their tour - which was prepaid, by the way - later.  Lana actually began to enjoy herself, until she found herself embroiled in the midst of an art scam.  Turns out Nick's work in tempera was relatively new.  He used to do modern art pieces in France, but they didn't sell at all well so he switched techniques.  However, someone was selling Nick's old paintings under a different, dead artist's name.  And that someone knew that Nick would recognize his own work, which he definitely couldn't allow to happen....<br />This is just a very light, fun read.  The characters are all a bit ludicrous and foolish in their actions, but they were good hearted and very fun to get to know.  All of them kept finding themselves in absolutely impossible situations, but it was just so funny that you couldn't help but laugh at their antics.  I especially enjoyed Nick trying to warm up to the prickly Lana and to persuade her that looks weren't everything.  The author's descriptions of Rome were charming and her accounts of Nick driving in Italian traffic were absolutely hilarious.  If you find the opportunity to read this entertaining novel, jump on it!eir antics.  I especially enjoyed Nick trying to warm up to the prickly Lana and to persuade her that looks weren't everything.  The author's descriptions of Rome were charming and her accounts of Nick driving in Italian traffic were absolutely hilarious.  If you find the opportunity to read this entertaining novel, jump on it!	2003-09-12
US	46905518	RGT14E966JYY9	1591051924	843498987	Diamondback (Taylor Madison, 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Start to a New Series!	When Taylor Madison's Volkswagen broke down just outside of Perdue, Texas' limits, she wondered if this whole trip was worth it.  After all, her editor was waiting for her new book and Taylor was flat broke after paying for her mother's funeral expenses.  How on earth was she going to afford to pay for car repairs?  Still, at least her trusty Beetle made it to the little town where her mother grew up and where her Aunt Tessa lived.  Taylor had never met her Aunt Tessa, in fact, she never even knew that she existed until she found a mysterious letter in her mother's jewelry box.  Taylor was determined to meet her and to find out what drove them apart for all those long years.  However, Tessa's reception wasn't exactly what she had hoped for.  Tessa threw her out of her home without even giving her a chance to explain why she was there.  Luckily, Sheriff Miles Crawford offered to make her a temporary deputy for the duration of the Rattlesnake Festival so she could earn enough money to pay Roger for her car repairs.  Unluckily, Sheriff Crawford was dead within a few days of her arrival.<br />It appeared that the Sheriff was bitten by a huge rattlesnake while reading in his living room and died from poison.  But Taylor Madison, aka &quot;Maddy Taylor&quot; mystery writer, knew a setup when she saw one.  She was determined to find out what really killed this man who was kind to her and to pin down her Aunt Tessa regarding her mother Sarah.  If only she could get her fellow deputies, Lester &amp; Cal, to take her seriously, she would have some help with the investigation.  But it would take some near death misses and other strange occurrences before anyone else in the sleepy town of Perdue would even consider that the Sheriff's death was murder...<br />This was a fabulous first book in a great new series.  Taylor Madison is a wonderful heroine and has a dry sense of humor that I found very entertaining.  All of secondary characters are great, too.  There is Lester, the town's golden boy who is being groomed to become the next Sheriff; Cal, the other candidate for Sheriff who seems to be interested in Taylor in a romantic way; Hazel, Taylor's pet ferret who definitely has a personality of her own; Billy, the skittish sheriff dispatcher who is never quite sure what to keep a secret; Billy's sister, Rita, the waitress as Lucy's Cafe who doesn't know the meaning of the word secret and spreads rumors all over town, as well as a host of other characters to keep the story lively.  The author does a great job at portraying life in a small town and the complex relationships between everyone.  The mystery was well thought out and came to a natural conclusion.  The story had lovely pacing and great descriptions.  If you have enjoyed Charlaine Harris' Teagarden or Shakespeare series, you should love this series, too!  Highly recommended for mystery lovers!wn's golden boy who is being groomed to become the next Sheriff; Cal, the other candidate for Sheriff who seems to be interested in Taylor in a romantic way; Hazel, Taylor's pet ferret who definitely has a personality of her own; Billy, the skittish sheriff dispatcher who is never quite sure what to keep a secret; Billy's sister, Rita, the waitress as Lucy's Cafe who doesn't know the meaning of the word secret and spreads rumors all over town, as well as a host of other characters to keep the story lively.  The author does a great job at portraying life in a small town and the complex relationships between everyone.  The mystery was well thought out and came to a natural conclusion.  The story had lovely pacing and great descriptions.  If you have enjoyed Charlaine Harris' Teagarden or Shakespeare series, you should love this series, too!  Highly recommended for mystery lovers!	2003-09-09
US	46905518	R3A7GW04LH2LVP	1591051967	664456562	Twice Dead (Taylor Madison Mystery Series, 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Second Book in the Taylor Madison Series	Taylor Madison has settled down into her father's old house in Perdue, Texas and is busy trying to write a new mystery novel, keep anyone from noticing that Cal Arnette, the man running for Sheriff in a month's time and her boyfriend, is spending most nights over at her house, and stay on top of the gossip coming from her neighbor Dorothy.  So the last thing she needs is to find a skeleton in her friend Bonita &quot;Bo&quot; Posey's closet.  Well, chimney in this case.<br />When Taylor persuaded Cal to drive her out to Bo's house on the chance of finding some good garage sale bargains they found a male skeleton wedged up the chimney with a shovel.  Turns out the skeleton belongs to Ralph, Bo's preacher husband who supposedly ran off with all the church funds years ago.  Since it was Bo's husband and she made no bones about her hatred for the man, Bo was the natural suspect for the murder.  Taylor knows that her friend Bo would never kill her husband, no matter how much she hated him, and is determined to get to the bottom of the mystery.<br />But as Taylor gets involved in the past, she uncovers more mysteries instead of solutions.  Why does Faith, Bo's daughter hate her?  What happened to Harvey Neff, Ralph's sidekick?  Why does Lewis Tucker, arguably the richest man in town live like a pauper?  And what caused Lewis and Faith to break up on the night of his accident?  How is the slimy new deputy Oliver Burke involved in the whole mess?  And, most importantly, what is going on between Cal and the attractive Srgt. Molly Sullivan of the Lubbock Sheriff's Department?  As Taylor hunts to uncover the answers to the mystery, she is forced to make some difficult decisions, but decides that she cannot let the past stay buried...<br />This is the second book in the Taylor Madison series and it is just as good as the first one, Diamondback.  I love that the author keeps the same characters coming back for more so that readers of the series can see what is happening in their lives, but first time readers will find Dearl's brief backgrounds more that adequate to catch them up.  The little town of Perdue, TX is a great setting for this series and the characters are absolutely wonderful.  Be on the lookout for more by this author - she is just fabulous!eir lives, but first time readers will find Dearl's brief backgrounds more that adequate to catch them up.  The little town of Perdue, TX is a great setting for this series and the characters are absolutely wonderful.  Be on the lookout for more by this author - she is just fabulous!	2003-09-09
US	46905518	R3W1A22UVRX444	0743411404	122451940	Code Name Cassandra (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious Must Read!	Jessica \\"Jess\\" Mastriani had finally convinced the FBI, the press, the military and everyone else in the vicinity of southern Indiana that she had lost her psychic powers and could no longer find missing people. Well, sort of. See, Jess knew that she was being followed by the FBI and that they were just waiting for her to accidentally show that she still did have her powers, but Jess had a system. When Jess had the chance to become a camp counselor at Camp Wawasee for the summer with her best friend, Ruth, she jumped at the chance to get the feds away from her house and to escape having to work in one of her family's restaurants for the whole summer. After all, how bad can a camp for musically gifted children be?<br />Well, with a lame name like Camp Wawasee, Jess should have realized that her summer wasn't going to go the way she planned it. First, they took her Frangipani Cottage away with all of her little female campers who would have adored her and assigned her to Birch Tree Cottage where the little male campers were intent on making her life miserable - especially Shane. Shane was a football player wannabe who was stuck at music camp because that is where his mother wanted him to be. Jess would be just as happy to have him at football camp and she cannot believe that anyone who acts the way he does can play like an angel. She definitely has her hands full trying to keep Shane from picking on the other kids and trying to get him to believe that she really did lose her powers (even though she didn't).<br />As if Jess didn't have enough problems, Jonathan Herzberg, a desperate father approaches Jess and begs her to find his daughter Keely. Jess refuses and tries to tell him that she doesn't find people anymore, but when he shoves the picture in front of her face, Jess knows that she will wake up the next morning knowing where Keely is whether she wants to or not. She isn't going to make the same mistake as last time though, this time she is going to make sure that Keely wants to be found....<br />This is the second book in the Lightning Girl series of the 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just as entertaining as the first. Jess is a great lead character who is laugh out loud funny throughout the whole book. The other characters are great, too, but Jess is my favorite. Jess has a knack for getting herself into impossible situations and having to be creative to get out again and so it is always a surprise to see what she will do next. I highly recommend this series - all four of the books in this series (When Lightning Strikes, Code Name Cassandra, Safe House & Sanctuary) are all must reads!hat Keely wants to be found.... <br />This is the second book in the Lightning Girl series of the 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just as entertaining as the first. Jess is a great lead character who is laugh out loud funny throughout the whole book. The other characters are great, too, but Jess is my favorite. Jess has a knack for getting herself into impossible situations and having to be creative to get out again and so it is always a surprise to see what she will do next. I highly recommend this series - all four of the books in this series (When Lightning Strikes, Code Name Cassandra, Safe House & Sanctuary) are all must reads!	2003-09-09
US	46905518	R3I1X6A1MB204S	1591051975	952848371	Triple Threat (Taylor Madison Mystery)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful Romantic Mystery!	Triple Threat begins with a novella called Buyer's Remorse (app. 125 pages) and then flows into the main story.  Buyer's Remorse is about Paula, Lester's widow and survivor of domestic abuse.  She has been working hard at putting her past behind her and is the police dispatcher.  However, when she buys the old Fisher place, she immediately regrets it and calls on Taylor to help her out.  Turns out that Abraham &amp; Violet Fisher's house is beautiful, but has been let go for a long time and is really run down.  Still, Taylor knows that they can set it to rights if they work at it and so they both dive into cleaning and sorting and rewiring the electricity.  The last thing they need is Abraham's ghost showing up to scare them to death.  As scraps of Abraham's journal show up, discovered who knows where by Hazel, Taylor's pet ferret, Taylor &amp; Paula discover that Abraham regrets murdering someone during the Great Depression.  But who?  And why?  Is Abraham's ghost really haunting the house or is the specter all too human and looking for some long-lost treasure?<br />In Triple Threat, Taylor is saddened to hear that Hank Barton of Hope's Feed &amp; Hardware has passed away.  Hank was the first one to welcome Taylor into Perdue and let her stay in the apartment above his store for free until she had the means to move out.  He was survived by his daughters: Lily &amp; Rose who had just moved back to town a year or so ago.  Lily ran a flower shop, Rose a secondhand clothing store and Rose's husband, Justin, took over the hardware store.  Taylor was pretty good friends with Rose and was shocked to hear that the twins were actually triplets and that they had another sister out there somewhere named Iris.  Taylor was even more surprised at the sisters' reaction when Hank's will was read.  Turns out Hank wanted his girls to be reunited more than anything so he put a codicil in his will that would give all of his property to the NRA if the girls didn't spend one year living under the same roof together.  From the way Rose &amp; Lily reacted, you'd think that they hated Iris.  But why?<br />When Iris showed up a couple of days later, Taylor wasn't surprised that she looked just like her sisters, but she was surprised at how many accidents happened to her.  Iris received a death threat, almost drowned in the lake, and then went missing in a freak tornado accident.  Who wanted her dead?  Taylor wasn't sure if anything was deliberate, but she was too busy trying to keep Cal from blowing a fuse over the new Citizens' Police Academy that Billy, a brand new deputy and Bo, City Councilwoman, had cooked up between the two of them.  What with the triplets' weird behavior, townspeople learning to shoot, a grieving mother, and a bout of the flu, Taylor has her hands full trying to solve this mystery!<br />This is third book in the Taylor Madison series (and first short story?) and it is just as fabulous as the first two.  Dearl has a lovely, smooth writing style and knows how to pace her stories perfectly so that the reader is never bored, but the endings don't come up too quickly.  Her characters are very memorable and I just get a kick out of all of the small town people in this book because I have met people just like them.  All of Dearl's books are well worth reading and the extra cost associated with the books (or you can buy them for a fraction of the cost in ebook format).  If you love mysteries, you will thoroughly enjoy this series!  I can't wait for the next one to come out!ng under the same roof together.  From the way Rose &amp; Lily reacted, you'd think that they hated Iris.  But why?<br />When Iris showed up a couple of days later, Taylor wasn't surprised that she looked just like her sisters, but she was surprised at how many accidents happened to her.  Iris received a death threat, almost drowned in the lake, and then went missing in a freak tornado accident.  Who wanted her dead?  Taylor wasn't sure if anything was deliberate, but she was too busy trying to keep Cal from blowing a fuse over the new Citizens' Police Academy that Billy, a brand new deputy and Bo, City Councilwoman, had cooked up between the two of them.  What with the triplets' weird behavior, townspeople learning to shoot, a grieving mother, and a bout of the flu, Taylor has her hands full trying to solve this mystery!<br />This is third book in the Taylor Madison series (and first short story?) and it is just as fabulous as the first two.  Dearl has a lovely, smooth writing style and knows how to pace her stories perfectly so that the reader is never bored, but the endings don't come up too quickly.  Her characters are very memorable and I just get a kick out of all of the small town people in this book because I have met people just like them.  All of Dearl's books are well worth reading and the extra cost associated with the books (or you can buy them for a fraction of the cost in ebook format).  If you love mysteries, you will thoroughly enjoy this series!  I can't wait for the next one to come out!	2003-09-09
US	46905518	RLY9TMUPYQC8U	1591051940	218900275	Fatal Fortune	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Some Good Parts, But Amateurish	Lottie Baldwin impulsively moved to Cheyenne, North Dakota after a bad break up to be closer to her old college friend, Janet Larson.  Janet stood by her and remained her friend even when the rest of the small town's population shunned her because of her &quot;gift.&quot;  Lottie had gradually made a place for herself there and did the occasional Tarot reading and other odd job to support herself.  She started dating Harlan Erikson, a sheriff's deputy, and, even though he didn't believe in her special powers, Lottie truly felt that she was wearing him down and winning him over.  So when Lottie heard that Harry Larson, Janet's husband, was missing, Lottie knew that he would never be coming back.  She tried to remain optimistic for Janet's sake, but she wasn't surprised when Harry's body was found days later.  Harlan doggedly pursued all leads to solve the murder, but he got nowhere fast.  Lottie decided that it was time for her to step in and disguised herself to interview various people who knew Harry and might have been involved in his death.  All clues seemed to point to Harry's construction company and the people involved with the new campus building, but who was the murderer?  When Janet's daughter, Laura, was kidnapped, Lottie knew that they had run out of time and that she had to use whatever powers she had to find Laura and the demented man who took her and killed her father.<br />I started Fatal Fortune with high hopes because I had just finished Dearl's excellent series by the same publisher and there are so many good reviews here, but I was very disappointed.  Lottie's talents were not dealt with very much and she seemed more scatterbrained and foolish than anything else.  She kept taking very foolish risks and doing things in ways that could not really help the case.  Harlan and the sheriff's department couldn't find out anything that Lottie found out right away, just by talking to people, which I find very hard to believe.  I also felt that the storyline wasn't laid out very well.  The author would start going towards something and then veer off on another topic or throw in some wild new challenge to keep the book going longer.  The dialogue between the characters, especially Lottie &amp; Harlan, seemed really sappy and trite.  I think that this author has a lot of potential, but this book didn't do anything for me.  Try Dearl's excellent Taylor Madison series or any of the Charlaine Harris series if you are looking for some cozy mysteries.wasn't laid out very well.  The author would start going towards something and then veer off on another topic or throw in some wild new challenge to keep the book going longer.  The dialogue between the characters, especially Lottie &amp; Harlan, seemed really sappy and trite.  I think that this author has a lot of potential, but this book didn't do anything for me.  Try Dearl's excellent Taylor Madison series or any of the Charlaine Harris series if you are looking for some cozy mysteries.	2003-09-09
US	46905518	RKN4AJYCQRGK	0743417941	685651502	The Enchantment (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	It Started Off Well....	Conor MacCloud returned from the Crusades a bitter and slightly broken man.  Most of his fellow clansmen were dead and the small band that was left had barely escaped the vile dungeons of the East.  Conor wanted nothing more than to return home and try to let his native Scotland heal his wounds.  But Conor was not destined to have peace for quite some time.  Conor returned home to his beloved Inverness, Scotland, but he returned to find his mad Uncle Simon ruling as laird of the area.  Conor and his small band valiantly tried to take the castle from him, but failed.  Conor had refused to take the witch Magdah's advice, but he swore to his dying kinsman that he would seek out the Peacemaker.  Little did he know that the ring's magic would hurl him into modern-day Seattle where Eilan Dougan would be waiting...<br />Eilan was an empath and could feel what people were thinking when she touched them, but she wasn't comfortable using this power and preferred to avoid intimacy.  Eilan had done her best to hide from mankind by living in a sparsely populated area of Colorado, but she agreed to return home to Seattle to run her parents' antique shop while they were on vacation.  When a wild man wearing a bloody kilt suddenly appeared in the shop waving his sword and calling for the Peacemaker, Eilan was terrified and immediately called the police.  Conor realized that he had frightened Eilan and tried to make her listen to him, but it was too late, Conor was carted off to jail.<br />Eilan instantly regretted sending Conor off with the police and knew that she needed to talk to Conor and to try and see what he wanted.  Before she knew it, she had gotten Conor out of jail and was stuck with him.  She spent some time introducing Conor to the wide variety of food available and the convenience of showers, but Conor chafed at the delay.  He was all too aware of time passing for his people while he delayed in this wonderland.  Conor knew that Eilan had to come with him willingly, but he began to despair that she would never agree...<br />This book started off really well and I enjoyed getting to know Conor and Eilan while they explored Seattle.  This part of the book was well developed and nicely paced, but when Eilan finally agreed to return to Conor's time, the author just rushed through the past and it turned out to be only about 1/3 of the book.  Eilan resisted using her powers and had no idea how to use them, but she was just suddenly able to dive in and solve everyone's problems within a few weeks of her arrival.  I wish the author had spent some more time writing the latter part of the book because this could have been a wonderful story, but it just ended way too abruptly and I did not enjoy the part in Scotland.  If you can find this book on sale or borrow it from your library, it is worth reading, but it is still a disappointment.ut he began to despair that she would never agree...<br />This book started off really well and I enjoyed getting to know Conor and Eilan while they explored Seattle.  This part of the book was well developed and nicely paced, but when Eilan finally agreed to return to Conor's time, the author just rushed through the past and it turned out to be only about 1/3 of the book.  Eilan resisted using her powers and had no idea how to use them, but she was just suddenly able to dive in and solve everyone's problems within a few weeks of her arrival.  I wish the author had spent some more time writing the latter part of the book because this could have been a wonderful story, but it just ended way too abruptly and I did not enjoy the part in Scotland.  If you can find this book on sale or borrow it from your library, it is worth reading, but it is still a disappointment.	2003-09-09
US	46905518	R19CQWUZS44I2W	0743411390	549642303	When Lightning Strikes (1-800-Where-R-You)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious Must Read!	It was all Ruth's fault. If Ruth hadn't started crying when Jeff Day told her that they would have to bury her in a piano case, then Jessica \\"Jess\\" Mastriani would never have punched Jeff in the mouth. Then she wouldn't have been sent to Mr. Goodhart's office, where she had to endure another lecture on temper management, and she wouldn't have been assigned another week of detention. Still, detention wasn't that bad that day because she got to sit next to Rob Wilkins, a hottie who always ended up in the back row (alphabetical order) and she never would have known that he had a totally cherried out Indian motorcycle that she was just dying to ride. It was a sign of her affection for Ruth that she turned down a ride on Rob's motorcycle to walk home with her so that she wouldn't be alone. All Ruth could talk about was how he was a grit and that townies just didn't go out with grits. As if Jess even cared when Rob was so hot! Jess couldn't believe that Ruth was harping about Jess liking Rob when she left her perfectly functional car at home to try and lose weight by walking to school to pick up Jess - with a big storm on the way! The thunderstorm was on them before they knew it and so Jess & Ruth took refuge under the metal bleachers on the football field - where Jess was struck by lightning.<br />The next morning, Jess woke up knowing the location of two kids whose pictures were on the back of the milk carton. Not just the location, but the exact address. Jess called the number on the back of the carton, gave them the info and quickly hung up. Before Jess knew it, there were reporters camped out around her house, a military base who wanted to study her, FBI agents were following her every step and one of the kids that she found had good reason to want to be lost. So when Jess had to escape from the military compound, get Sean back to his mother (who was in jail), convince Rob to date her even though she was only 16 (he was 18) and then somehow convince everyone that she didn't have this magical power she knew that it was all definitely Ruth's fault...<br />This was an absolutely hilarious book. Jess is such an great character, very tough and never afraid to say exactly what she is thinking. I was laughing out loud through the whole book. The other characters are great, too, and you wonder if there are any normal people in Southern Indiana. Jess has a pretty cool power, but it doesn't help protect her from anything or anyone so she has to stick up for herself. The storyline was great and kept you guessing as to what Jess was going to do. If you have enjoyed any of Meg Cabot/Jenny Carroll's other books, you will love this one - a must read!e didn't have this magical power she knew that it was all definitely Ruth's fault... <br />This was an absolutely hilarious book. Jess is such an great character, very tough and never afraid to say exactly what she is thinking. I was laughing out loud through the whole book. The other characters are great, too, and you wonder if there are any normal people in Southern Indiana. Jess has a pretty cool power, but it doesn't help protect her from anything or anyone so she has to stick up for herself. The storyline was great and kept you guessing as to what Jess was going to do. If you have enjoyed any of Meg Cabot/Jenny Carroll's other books, you will love this one - a must read!	2003-08-28
US	46905518	R1531EYGDKDW6T	0595094481	266882441	Ashes to Ashes	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Within the Castle, the Spirits of the Past Live On....	When historian Rebecca Reid heard about the chance to help catalog Dun Iain's treasures, she jumped at the chance.  After all, how often does a historian get to visit an exact replica of an ancient Scottish castle in the middle of Ohio?  She knew that James Forbes, the castle's owner who had just passed away, owned the Erskine letter - a letter which just might prove that Mary, Queen of Scots' son was switched at birth for another woman's.  It was just what she needed for her Ph.D. dissertation.  It also gave Rebecca a chance to get away from Ray, her cloying fiance, whom Rebecca was slowly falling out of love with.<br />When Rebecca arrived at Dun Iain, she immediately was embroiled in old feuds and shadows of the past.  Nothing could have prepared her for the ghostly presences that stalked the halls clunking loudly up and down the stairs, throwing dishes in the kitchen, turning on and off lights in rooms, moving crystal bottles from floor to floor.  And nothing could have prepared her for the living people at Dun Iain: Michael Campbell, the Scottish professor sent from the museum to separate out the Forbes' family treasures and decide what would go to home to Scotland and what would stay with the historical society; Eric Adler, the charming, handsome executor of the Forbes estate; Dorothy, the eavesdropping busybody of a housekeeper who had been cleaning Dun Iain for thirty years of more; Steve Pruitt and his girlfriend Heather who always seemed to be in the wrong place at the wrong time; James Forbes, who, even after death refused to leave his beloved castle and stumped up and down the corridors and stairways; and Elspeth, James' beautiful mother, who threw herself from the 5th story window when she lost her daughter...<br />When priceless treasures turn up missing and Rebecca and Michael keep getting involved in mysterious &quot;accidents&quot;, Rebecca is forced to admit that the ghosts aren't the only spooky things at Dun Iain.  Eric is quite charming and she does enjoy their evenings together, but there is something holding her back from going all the way.  Michael alternates between exasperating and loveable, but he may be stealing valuables to fund his own schemes.  She wants to believe the best of everyone, but she knows that her time is running out...<br />This was a great book by Lillian Stewart Carl, full of romance and intrigue and priceless treasures lost and found.  It is an updated version of a Gothic romance, with the heroine feeling lost and alone and plenty of handsome men around to choose from.  All of the characters were well drawn and absolutely fascinating, whether hero or villain, all of them had shades of gray in their characters.  I am looking forward to reading the sequel - Dust to Dust.  Definitely worth your time to check out this author!does enjoy their evenings together, but there is something holding her back from going all the way.  Michael alternates between exasperating and loveable, but he may be stealing valuables to fund his own schemes.  She wants to believe the best of everyone, but she knows that her time is running out...<br />This was a great book by Lillian Stewart Carl, full of romance and intrigue and priceless treasures lost and found.  It is an updated version of a Gothic romance, with the heroine feeling lost and alone and plenty of handsome men around to choose from.  All of the characters were well drawn and absolutely fascinating, whether hero or villain, all of them had shades of gray in their characters.  I am looking forward to reading the sequel - Dust to Dust.  Definitely worth your time to check out this author!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R3BS1D8IECT9NN	0451458907	279677633	Restoration (Rai Kirah)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Heartbreakingly Triumphant Conclusion  of Seyonne's Story	By the time Seyonne survived 16 years of slavery under the Derzhi, reclaimed his life among the Ezzarians, had his people try to murder him and joined with a demon, he knew that there were gods at work on his world - and they must have had a doozy of a sense of humor.  Seyonne is exiled from his homeland and wants nothing more than to watch his son grow up from afar, try to heal and to find out what to do with the demon that is inside of him.  But when a group of assassins show up, sent to kill him by a Derzhi heged, Seyonne has no choice but to go to Aleksander, his former master, and warn him.  It turns out that Aleksander already knows, but his father, the emperor, just died and the Council of the Twenty is fighting Aleksander's ascension to the throne.  Tricked into starting a battle that he knows he cannot win, Aleksander is betrayed and only Seyonne can save him.<br />While Seyonne waits for Aleksander to heal, he comes in contact with a mysterious sage in a long-deserted city and Seyonne knows that he can only delay his destiny, not change it.  For Seyonne has long seen a terrible warrior in the dreaded palace in the land of the demons - a warrior with his face.  Seyonne waits as long as he can to try and help Aleksander, but the demon part of him is tearing his soul apart and the nightmares keep him from any kind of rest.  Seyonne forces himself to journey across the borders of the world to the palace where something dark waits to destroy him and the world as he knows it...<br />This is an absolutely stunning trilogy by Carol Berg.  It began with Transformation (my personal favorite), continued with Revelation and ends here with Restoration.  Seyonne and Aleksander are some of the most memorable heroes in all of my fantasy reading and all of Carol Berg's characters are well drawn and absolutely fascinating.  The world that Seyonne inhabits is never static - the rules of the game change in every book so the reader never really knows what to expect.  This book was absolutely heart wrenching and really showed the costs that are associated with changing the world for the better.  Seyonne lost everything and then regained everything and it was so hard to watch him change and to lose that core of honor and belief in the value of lives for a brief time.  For anyone who loves fantasy, this trilogy should be on your must read list - and they are well worth keeping to read again and again!  I am eagerly awaiting more fabulous tales from Carol Berg, a tremendously talented author.was absolutely heart wrenching and really showed the costs that are associated with changing the world for the better.  Seyonne lost everything and then regained everything and it was so hard to watch him change and to lose that core of honor and belief in the value of lives for a brief time.  For anyone who loves fantasy, this trilogy should be on your must read list - and they are well worth keeping to read again and again!  I am eagerly awaiting more fabulous tales from Carol Berg, a tremendously talented author.	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R34T74DWVBHCV9	0451457951	402100144	Transformation (Rai Kirah)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	One of My Favorite Fantasy Books!	Seyonne was born an Ezzarian, a free people in a lush, green land who used their magical powers to free innocent people from demon possession.  But the Ezzarians kept their demon war a secret and all the conquering Derzhi saw was a rich land to conquer.  Seyonne was captured and put through horrible rites that stripped him of his magical powers.  Forced into slavery, Seyonne endured horrible conditions and masters, living by his mantra \\"what comes, comes\\" and refusing to look beyond the present moment.  When Prince Aleksander, the Emperor's son, buys him for his household, Seyonne is ready to hate him.  He is the worst kind of Derzhi, arrogant, uncaring, heartless and heedlessly cruel to all around him.  So Seyonne is shocked when he sees the light of the feadnach, the God-touched, shining out of Aleksander's eyes.  Long ago, when he was a Warden in Ezzaria, Seyonne swore to protect anyone who bore the feadnach, but how on earth can he protect a cocky Derzhi prince who doesn't even believe in magic?<br />When the Khelid come, Seyonne immediately recognizes the demon gleam in their eyes.  But, since he was stripped of power, he has nothing but his wits to fight them.  As Aleksander enters a critical time for his future rule, Seyonne desperately tries to convince the Prince that the Khelid are dangerous and will destroy the entire Derzhi empire if he is not wary.  Heedless of Seyonne's warnings, Aleksander is stunned when he comes under a foul demon enchantment, one that Seyonne cannot remove because Aleksander's people destroyed his magical powers.  Seyonne knows that he has no choice but to take Aleksander to his people in Ezzaria and pray that someone will help him there.  Seyonne rejoices to see his homeland once more, but he also dreads going there.  For, because of Seyonne's corrupt state, he is as one already dead to them and he knows it will break his heart to see his loved ones again...<br />Transformation is one of my favorite fantasy books of all times.  Seyonne and Aleksander are wonderful characters and Seyonne is a great hero.  He comes to understand throughout the book that, even though he is a slave, he is still free in that he has the ability to make choices.  He makes a very difficult one to save Aleksander, who doesn't seem worth saving, but, in the process he finds a way to save himself and to come to terms with who he has become instead of who he once was.  This is an amazing book filled with wonderful details, memorable characters and a stunning story.  A must read for any fantasy fan!yonne and Aleksander are wonderful characters and Seyonne is a great hero.  He comes to understand throughout the book that, even though he is a slave, he is still free in that he has the ability to make choices.  He makes a very difficult one to save Aleksander, who doesn't seem worth saving, but, in the process he finds a way to save himself and to come to terms with who he has become instead of who he once was.  This is an amazing book filled with wonderful details, memorable characters and a stunning story.  A must read for any fantasy fan!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R2NU1CPXS1ZKFA	0395305322	798705419	Sweet and Deadly	Books	4	110	112	N	N	Good, But Not Great...	Catherine Linton set out early in the morning to go and shoot some cans for target practice.  After deciding that the last can deserved to live (having missed it several times), Catherine spotted the hand.  It was reaching out towards her from the doorway of an old, rickety shack of a house that hadn't been lived in for years.  Catherine took one look at the woman's misshapen head and knew that there was nothing she could do for her.  When Sheriff Galton came out to take a look, he thought it was pretty weird that Catherine didn't mention that the body belonged to Leona, her father's nurse for several years.  Catherine tried to persuade the Sheriff that she just didn't look at the face, but she knew that she was still a suspect.<br />Catherine wasn't too happy that Leona had died, but she and Leona had never really liked each other so she wouldn't exactly miss her.  She did miss her parents.  She missed them a lot.  They had been killed in a freak car accident 6 months previous and the whole town was still reeling from the shock of losing the beloved small-town doctor who had served the community so valiantly for so long.  Ever since Catherine moved back to her hometown, she had felt isolated and alone from the people there.  Now that she was suddenly involved in something again, Catherine started to live once more.  She saw Randall, her editor at the Lowfield Gazette, for what felt like the first time and she had to say that she liked what she saw.  To Catherine's surprise, Randall is not the only stranger who reaches out with offers of assistance - even the black community seemed to reach out to help her.  Now, if only Catherine could put the clues together, she could solve the mystery of who killed her parents and Leona - and stop him before he killed again...<br />I enjoyed the book.  I thought that the mystery was well developed and had a nice pacing to it.  All of the characters were sketched out quickly, but it was easy for the reader to remember who was who.  The setting was marvelous - you really could feel the heat coming off of the pavement in a small, still segregated town in the South.  Harris' descriptions of the town and the people had to be my favorite part.  However, my one complaint with the book is that I felt like a spectator looking in instead of identifying with any of the characters.  I didn't have any emotional attachment to any of the characters and I really missed that because I immediately identified with Harris' characters in her Shakespeare, Southern Vampire and Teagarden series, but not here.  If the book wasn't so hard to find and so dang expensive I would say that you should read it, but I have to say (since it is hard to find and it is extremely expensive) that you should read it if you find it, but don't kill yourself looking for it...The setting was marvelous - you really could feel the heat coming off of the pavement in a small, still segregated town in the South.  Harris' descriptions of the town and the people had to be my favorite part.  However, my one complaint with the book is that I felt like a spectator looking in instead of identifying with any of the characters.  I didn't have any emotional attachment to any of the characters and I really missed that because I immediately identified with Harris' characters in her Shakespeare, Southern Vampire and Teagarden series, but not here.  If the book wasn't so hard to find and so dang expensive I would say that you should read it, but I have to say (since it is hard to find and it is extremely expensive) that you should read it if you find it, but don't kill yourself looking for it...	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R3GG0RM0ELF1GU	0671787918	669250163	Shadowland (The Mediator)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Fabulous Start to an Amazing New Series!	Susannah \\"Suze\\" Simon just traveled all the way across the country from New York to California to live with her mom, her new stepfather and her three new stepbrothers.  Yippee.  She hasn't even gotten the chance to unpack when she sees a ghost sitting in her bedroom.  It is true that the ghost is really hot, but, hello, she cannot share her bedroom with a guy!  She tells Jesse, the ghost, to take a hike, but, of course, he doesn't so Suze has to find another way to get rid of him.  After Suze's first day at school, however, Jesse is the least of her worries.  Heather, a very angry ghost girl who just committed suicide when her boyfriend broke up with her, is determined to make Bryce Martinson, her seemingly perfect boyfriend, pay for her death.  Suze has never had a problem getting ghosts to leave before, true, she may have kicked a few ... to get them out of there, but they always left, but Heather wasn't leaving.<br />As Suze tries to convince her mom that she is happy in her new home, adjust to having a stepfather who insists they all eat dinner together (every night!), deal with three stepbrothers that she calls Sleepy, Dopey & Doc for a reason, exchange mediator techniques with Father Dominic, the first guy she has met who can also see ghosts, save Bryce from Heather's murderous impulses and get rid of Heather while making new friends at her new school, she finds that she has her hands more than full and figures out pretty quickly that, while California is not the same as New York, her life didn't get any easier...<br />I loved this book!  It was so hilarious that I was laughing out loud while I read it.  Suze is a fabulous character and is so matter of fact about seeing ghosts and how to deal with them and stuff that it doesn't seem at all unusual.  Her friends are unique, her new stepfamily is a hoot when seen through Suze's eyes and Suze's idea of what California is like was pretty funny too.  I thoroughly enjoyed this book and am ready to pounce on all of the other books in this series.  A must read!he other books in this series.  A must read!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	RNFRF23R4TBH	006029471X	896407110	Haunted: A Tale of the Mediator	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Suze Thought The Nightmare Was Over...	Suze had just had an exhausting summer vacation and was happy to be going back to school where things were normal.  Unfortunately for Suze, her life was just going to get weirder.  For one thing, the guy who haunted her nightmares because he just tried to kill her, the gorgeous but evil Paul Slater, is now going to her high school.  For another, Jesse, the love of her life who just happens to be a 150-year old ghost haunting her room, has been avoiding her since that great kiss they had shared a few weeks ago.  Then there was Sleepy's new college friend, who just happened to have his dead brother tagging along behind him insisting that he deserved to live and his brother should be the one who was dead.  Of course, Suze still had to worry about student elections, her social life and how those new shoes she bought were just killing her!  Looks like it is going to be another busy year in the life of Suze Simon, Mediator.<br />I enjoyed this book, but I think that it is the weakest of the Mediator series.  For one thing, Suze spends a lot more time being a girl and being scared than in the other books.  For another, it just wasn't as funny and the author dropped the Sleepy, Dopey & Doc nicknames for her stepbrothers - hello, who the heck are Jake, Brad and David?  Anyway, I would have to say that this, the fifth book in the series, was a bit of a letdown, but it was still a great book.  Even when Cabot/Carroll isn't at the top of her game, she is still a great author!  Well worth your time to read, but I highly recommend the other books in this series, as well as the 1-800-Where-R-U series (Lightning Girl, etc.).	2003-08-19
US	46905518	RXTEAYQ38654V	0743411420	645112784	Sanctuary (1-800-Where-R-You)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another Great Book By Carroll/Cabot!	Jessica \\"Jess\\" Mastriani was never what anyone would call a normal girl, but ever since she was hit by lightning, she can find anyone if she sees a picture of them.  Since getting this new talent, Jess' life was made miserable by the media and the military, so Jess pretended that she can't find anyone anymore and so is officially without powers.  However, there are a few people that know she can find people and most of the people in town, as well as the FBI, are pretty sure that she is faking.  So when Dr. Thompkins, the new African American doctor who just moved in across the street, swings by on Thanksgiving to ask Jess if she knows where Nate, his son is, Jess tries to explain that she doesn't do that anymore.  Turns out that Dr. Thompkins has no idea what Jess can do and was just trying to find out if she had seen Nate, as in with her eyes while awake.  Anyway, Jess is way too busy trying to sneak out of the house and over to Rob's house for her second Thanksgiving dinner to worry about where Nate is, until she is on her way home.  While Rob follows her on his motorcycle, Jess is stopped by a roadblock on the road and immediately assumes it is because she doesn't have a driver's license.  Okay, Jess is way old enough to drive and is a totally safe driver, she just likes to go a little fast.  I mean, how bad is it to be going 80 in a 25 mph zone?  Anyway, Jess soon finds out that the reason for the roadblock is they found Nate's body in a cornfield with a weird snake like tattoo carved on his chest.  Unluckily for Jess, Dr. Krantz, a special agent who is in charge of an elite team of \\"specially-gifted\\" crime solvers is on the scene to once again question if Jess has really lost her talents.<br />Jess feels guilty about not being able to save Nate and she knows when Seth, a Jewish boy, is missing and the synagogue is set on fire that she has to do something.  She dreams of Seth and knows where he is, calls in an anonymous tip, but doesn't tell the police that there are men with guns guarding Seth.  One of the cops is in critical condition after being shot and Jess knows that it is her fault.  She is determined to find Seth without getting anyone else involved - except for Rob, of course.  Rob gets a bunch of bikers from Chick's Bar to join them on their insane quest to rescue Seth from a group of white supremacists who live out in the woods and Jess is off on another one of her wild adventures...<br />This is the 4th book in the \\"Lightning Girl\\" or 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just as hilarious and entertaining as the first three.  Of all of Cabot's/Carroll's series I would have to say that Jess is my favorite heroine and always makes me laugh while I am reading.  She is very honest and just says what she is thinking or feeling and it is just so funny!  Jess is always trying to get Rob to kiss her and to be her boyfriend, but he cannot date her because she is only 16 and he is 18 and on probation.  The situations she gets Rob and herself into are very entertaining.  I cannot recommend this series highly enough - all of the books by Cabot/Carroll are great, but this one is the best!  I simply cannot wait for another book in this series - I really hope that she keeps writing more!e are men with guns guarding Seth.  One of the cops is in critical condition after being shot and Jess knows that it is her fault.  She is determined to find Seth without getting anyone else involved - except for Rob, of course.  Rob gets a bunch of bikers from Chick's Bar to join them on their insane quest to rescue Seth from a group of white supremacists who live out in the woods and Jess is off on another one of her wild adventures...<br />This is the 4th book in the \\"Lightning Girl\\" or 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just as hilarious and entertaining as the first three.  Of all of Cabot's/Carroll's series I would have to say that Jess is my favorite heroine and always makes me laugh while I am reading.  She is very honest and just says what she is thinking or feeling and it is just so funny!  Jess is always trying to get Rob to kiss her and to be her boyfriend, but he cannot date her because she is only 16 and he is 18 and on probation.  The situations she gets Rob and herself into are very entertaining.  I cannot recommend this series highly enough - all of the books by Cabot/Carroll are great, but this one is the best!  I simply cannot wait for another book in this series - I really hope that she keeps writing more!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R2C31DA4SEILYI	0671787985	750389760	Ninth Key (The Mediator)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	There's No Such Thing As Ghosts.	Yeah, right.  High school sophomore Susannah \\"Suze\\" Simon wishes that she was like everyone else and couldn't see ghosts, well, except for Jesse, the hot ghost who lives in her room.  Anyway, Suze has only lived in California with her new stepfather and stepbrothers for two weeks and her life has already been a whirlwind of events - pool parties, dates with hot guys, exorcising killer schoolgirls, you know, the usual.  Everything is going well until a woman shows up one night screaming and begging Suze to find \\"Red\\" and to tell him that he isn't responsible for her death.<br />Right.  Tracking down a murderer is never easy, but tracking down someone who didn't murder someone isn't exactly easy either.  Luckily, Suze is able to find out that \\"Red\\" is actually Tad Beaumont's father.  Too bad that Tad is gorgeous, rich and one of the most popular guys in the area - and he even asked Suze out!  Now, if only Suze can get at Tad's father and give him the message, she can get on with her social life.  Unfortunately, once she does get in to see him, Suze finds out that Tad's father thinks he is a vampire and totally creeps her out.  Suze knows that she has to do something to make Tad see that his dad and his uncle aren't exactly playing with a full deck, but she sure can't tell him how she knows!<br />This was a fabulous addition to the Mediator series and a great sequel to Shadowland, especially since they are so close timewise.  Suze is in fine form in this book and lets nothing and no one get in her way.  Sure, she gets scared, but when she gets scared she usually gets angry, too, so it is pretty entertaining.  The supporting characters are great in this book and the story just sucks you in.  If you haven't read Shadowland (the first book in the Mediator series), you will still understand what is going on, but I highly recommend that you read all of the books in the series as they are excellent!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R20D8C51DWKCFY	0743411412	467619413	Safe House (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	One of My Absolute Favorite Series/Books!	After Jess got back from working as a camp counselor at Lake Wawasee in Code Name Cassandra, Jess had two choices: work the hot plate at her father's restaurant or go to the Michigan dunes with her best friend Ruth Abramowitz.  This may seem like a no brainer choice, but Ruth's dad doesn't believe in cable, won't allow a phone at the house except for his cell for emergencies, and her best friend Ruth is busy going out with her boyfriend the whole time.  But when Jess found out that her Great-aunt Rose would be coming to watch Jess and her older brother Doug while her parents took her brother to Harvard, playing endless video games with Skip, Ruth's geeky older brother, started to look pretty good.  Needless to say, Jess had no idea that Amber Mackey went missing while she was on vacation and it was grossly unfair of everyone to blame her for not being there to find her.  Hello, Jess had already told everyone that she had lost her powers, why was everyone blaming her?<br />Karen Sue Hanky.  The lousy snitch had told everyone about how she found a missing kid at camp and now all of the popular kids are blaming Jess for not saving Amber.  Jess has no idea who would want to kill a popular cheerleader and leave her body at the bottom of the quarry, but she feels that she is obligated to find out.  When another cheerleader goes missing, Heather Montrose, one of the most popular girls in school, Jess knows that she has to do something.  But how can she find Heather without revealing that she still has her psychic powers to the Feds?  When Jess is able to find out, though, she knows that she has no choice but to go and rescue Heather - no one should have to go through the agonies that Heather is!  Jess quickly drags Rob, her would be boyfriend if he would just get a clue, out to an abandoned shack where they find Heather.  Jess is counting on Heather to turn her kidnappers over to the police, but Heather is too scared.  Jess knows that she is the only one who can track down the people in her own town who are capable of committing these terrible crimes, but is it worth the price she will have to pay?<br />This is the third book in the \\"Lightning Girl\\" or 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just fabulous!  Meg Cabot/Jenny Carroll has created one of my favorite series with this one and I simply love Jess as a heroine.  Jess is funny, smart, tough and not afraid to say or do exactly what she is thinking.  She always makes me laugh when I read her stories - whether she is trying to finagle Rob into dating her, get her older brother Doug out of his room or beat up Karen Sue Hankey, she is always entertaining and fun to read about.  This is an absolute must read series if you have liked any of Cabot/Carroll's other books.  Highly recommended for everyone!wn the people in her own town who are capable of committing these terrible crimes, but is it worth the price she will have to pay?<br />This is the third book in the \\"Lightning Girl\\" or 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just fabulous!  Meg Cabot/Jenny Carroll has created one of my favorite series with this one and I simply love Jess as a heroine.  Jess is funny, smart, tough and not afraid to say or do exactly what she is thinking.  She always makes me laugh when I read her stories - whether she is trying to finagle Rob into dating her, get her older brother Doug out of his room or beat up Karen Sue Hankey, she is always entertaining and fun to read about.  This is an absolute must read series if you have liked any of Cabot/Carroll's other books.  Highly recommended for everyone!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	RCSFT7SSN7JXF	0439551234	361348146	Mister Monday (Keys to the Kingdom, Book 1)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	He Was Never Supposed to Be a Hero!	Arthur Penhaligon dreaded his first day at his new school.  His family had just moved to the area and he was starting two weeks later than everyone else because he was in the hospital with a severe asthma attack.  His PE teacher thought he was just slacking off when Arthur told him that he couldn't run so Arthur thought it was best to just go with the flow and joined the other kids.  Arthur knew it was a mistake when he felt his lungs start to shut down in the middle of the park - far away from help.  Not even his inhaler seemed to be giving him oxygen.  When he saw a cadaverously thin man with terrible teeth pushing the most beautiful man Arthur had ever seen in an old fashioned wicker wheelchair, Arthur was sure that he was having a weird, oxygen-deprived dream.  Then the beautiful man gave Arthur a key and he could breathe again.  After Arthur recovered from his asthma attack, he discovered that the key was actually the key to a clock and that it came with a book, the Compleat Atlas of the House and Immediate Environs, which shows pictures of how to use the key to get into a big house on the block that only Arthur can see.<br />Arthur doesn't know what to do, but he knows that he cannot stay at school when an army of dog-faced Fetchers show up to get the key from him.  Even more frightening than the Fetchers is Mr. Noon, who is just as beautiful as the man who gave him the key, and just as deadly.  When a deadly virus strikes Arthur's new town, he knows that he has no choice but to go into the House.  When he passes through the gateway, Arthur is immediately plunged into a strange world where people collect paper and writing and the children the Pied Piper lured off are trapped.  Suzy, one of the trapped children, decides to help Arthur and, together with the Will, a mysterious creature that Arthur is not sure is helping him or not, Arthur and Suzy set out to win the other key from Mr. Monday and take over the world so that Arthur can return home.  But it seems that everyone Arthur meets has another plan and he doesn't know who to trust and why was he chosen to have the key anyway?<br />Mister Monday was a good book and I enjoyed it, but it was pretty confusing and very different than other books that I have read.  I was kind of expecting this because Garth Nix writes a lot of really good dark fantasy, but it isn't what you would call easy to understand.  I liked Arthur, but he was a little standoffish and the other characters were pretty weird too.  The worlds that Arthur explored were the most confusing, but this may be on purpose because the reader only learned and understood things when Arthur learned and understood them.  I think it may be too confusing for younger readers, but older readers and those who have enjoyed the Harry Potter series will enjoy having another set of books to read in between waiting for Rowling's next offering.  This appears to be the first in what will be a new series for Nix and I am eagerly awaiting the next - Mr. Tuesday, I presume?that everyone Arthur meets has another plan and he doesn't know who to trust and why was he chosen to have the key anyway?<br />Mister Monday was a good book and I enjoyed it, but it was pretty confusing and very different than other books that I have read.  I was kind of expecting this because Garth Nix writes a lot of really good dark fantasy, but it isn't what you would call easy to understand.  I liked Arthur, but he was a little standoffish and the other characters were pretty weird too.  The worlds that Arthur explored were the most confusing, but this may be on purpose because the reader only learned and understood things when Arthur learned and understood them.  I think it may be too confusing for younger readers, but older readers and those who have enjoyed the Harry Potter series will enjoy having another set of books to read in between waiting for Rowling's next offering.  This appears to be the first in what will be a new series for Nix and I am eagerly awaiting the next - Mr. Tuesday, I presume?	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R39C0H5NB79DXW	0451458427	302549224	Revelation (Rai Kirah)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stunning Sequel to Transformation!	Seyonne was enslaved by the Derzhi for 16 long years.  He forced himself to live a day at a time and to never look past the present.  But Prince Aleksander, his master, freed him and, wonder of wonders, Seyonne had reclaimed his magic and was free to live among his people, the Ezzarians, once more.  Seyonne was overjoyed to return to his wife and his people.  He immediately took up his duties as a Warden again and worked tirelessly for two years to force demons out of innocent human souls.  The Ezzarians still whispered that he was tainted by his captivity, but Seyonne refused to let it matter, even as he refused to worry about Fiona, his babysitter who followed him everywhere he went, searching for signs of corruption.  When Seyonne let a demon go free, Fiona had the sign that she was looking for.  Then Seyonne discovered that his wife had left his son out to die and he had never even seen the baby.  The Ezzarian Council tried to force Seyonne to give up his magic and to earn his right to work as a Warden again, but Seyonne refused to enter this different kind of slavery and set off to find his son.<br />Seyonne discovered Brand, a demon-joined Ezzarian who was attacking the Derzhi and undermining Aleksander's rule.  The more Seyonne learned of Brand, the more he liked him, but Aleksander was so important to the future of their world and Seyonne couldn't bear to see two of his best friends fighting each other.  Seyonne learned that there were others like Brand who were born demon joined, like Seyonne's own son, and they had different powers - in some way greater powers - than the Ezzarians.  Seyonne started to question all that he knew of Ezzarian history and came to the stunning conclusion that his people were meant to be demon joined - the demons were a part of them!  But what had happened and how?  The only place that Seyonne could think to go and look for answers was into the demon realm itself...<br />Revelation takes place two years after the end of Transformation and it was nothing like what I thought it would be.  When we left Seyonne in Transformation he was picking up the old threads of his life and I thought that he would have a much longer time to be happy.  But Seyonne is a great hero and always takes the path he should - even when others try to discourage him and make it difficult.  Seyonne suffered greatly in this book and it was hard to see him walk into agony again, but the answers that come from this book were startling and took the story of Seyonne and Aleksander to a whole new level.  Berg's fantasy world is never static, the rules are always changing and so the reader will always be surprised.  This was an absolutely superb book with stunning characters.  A must read for any fantasy lover!ation and it was nothing like what I thought it would be.  When we left Seyonne in Transformation he was picking up the old threads of his life and I thought that he would have a much longer time to be happy.  But Seyonne is a great hero and always takes the path he should - even when others try to discourage him and make it difficult.  Seyonne suffered greatly in this book and it was hard to see him walk into agony again, but the answers that come from this book were startling and took the story of Seyonne and Aleksander to a whole new level.  Berg's fantasy world is never static, the rules are always changing and so the reader will always be surprised.  This was an absolutely superb book with stunning characters.  A must read for any fantasy lover!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R2PBKYKL0R7IQ6	0399149848	93143308	Birthright (Roberts, Nora)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One of My Favorite Books by Nora Roberts!	The town of Woodsboro, MD was divided over the new Antietam Creek development.  Half of the town thought it was great that they were building some new homes in the area - the building brought jobs and the new families would breathe new life into the little town.  The other half of the town wanted to preserve the beautiful area which sat by a tranquil pond as a nature conservation area.  However, nature lost out to commercialism and the Antietam Creek development was underway when a construction worker found a human skull while he was digging.<br />When archaeologist Callie Dunbrook discovered that the skull was 5,000 years old, she jumped at the chance to go and excavate.  This could be the find of the century and make her career.  Not even the discovery that Jake Greystone, her ex-husband, would be the anthropologist on site could keep her away.  Callie throws herself into her work, but quickly has her world pulled out from under her.  Suzanne Cullen, owner and founder of Suzanne's Kitchen, a successful bakery business, spots Callie on TV and knows that Callie is her long lost Jessica, her baby who was stolen when she was only a few months old.<br />Callie refuses to believe it.  Her parents never said anything about adoption and she thinks that Suzanne is not very mentally stable to boot.  Unfortunately, Callie soon learns that she was adopted and that her parents paid a quarter of a million dollars for the privilege.  Callie knows that she cannot be the daughter that Suzanne has always waited for, but she is determined to bring those responsible to justice.  But as Callie uncovers dark secrets she discovers that someone is determined to keep the past buried - even if they have to kill for it...<br />I think that this is one of Nora Roberts best romantic thrillers.  Her characters are absolutely riveting in this book and I identified with and loved them all.  Callie, who loved her parents and thought that being independent was the only way to be free; Jake, who thought that expressions of love didn't have to be verbal and that if there was no trust there was no love; Suzanne, a woman who had sacrificed everything including her husband and her other child to find the child that she had lost; Lana Campbell, Callie's beautiful, capable lawyer who had lost her husband in a senseless shooting and now found herself falling in love again; Doug Cullen, as Callie's older brother, he hated himself for not taking care of the baby Jessica and didn't know if he wanted a sister in his life; and many, many other characters.  Lana and Doug had a nice secondary romance going on and Suzanne started to fit her life back together again in the book.  The villains were great, evil and a little insane and a complete surprise (to me, at least).  The icing on the cake was the archaeological and anthropological detail that Roberts included, which was absolutely fascinating.  A great read - well worth your time!thought that expressions of love didn't have to be verbal and that if there was no trust there was no love; Suzanne, a woman who had sacrificed everything including her husband and her other child to find the child that she had lost; Lana Campbell, Callie's beautiful, capable lawyer who had lost her husband in a senseless shooting and now found herself falling in love again; Doug Cullen, as Callie's older brother, he hated himself for not taking care of the baby Jessica and didn't know if he wanted a sister in his life; and many, many other characters.  Lana and Doug had a nice secondary romance going on and Suzanne started to fit her life back together again in the book.  The villains were great, evil and a little insane and a complete surprise (to me, at least).  The icing on the cake was the archaeological and anthropological detail that Roberts included, which was absolutely fascinating.  A great read - well worth your time!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R253U7A4XA3G2A	0671787985	750389760	Ninth Key (The Mediator)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	There's No Such Thing As Ghosts.	Yeah, right.  High school sophomore Susannah \\"Suze\\" Simon wishes that she was like everyone else and couldn't see ghosts, well, except for Jesse, the hot ghost who lives in her room.  Anyway, Suze has only lived in California with her new stepfather and stepbrothers for two weeks and her life has already been a whirlwind of events - pool parties, dates with hot guys, exorcising killer schoolgirls, you know, the usual.  Everything is going well until a woman shows up one night screaming and begging Suze to find \\"Red\\" and to tell him that he isn't responsible for her death.  <br />Right.  Tracking down a murderer is never easy, but tracking down someone who didn't murder someone isn't exactly easy either.  Luckily, Suze is able to find out that \\"Red\\" is actually Tad Beaumont's father.  Too bad that Tad is gorgeous, rich and one of the most popular guys in the area - and he even asked Suze out!  Now, if only Suze can get at Tad's father and give him the message, she can get on with her social life.  Unfortunately, once she does get in to see him, Suze finds out that Tad's father thinks he is a vampire and totally creeps her out.  Suze knows that she has to do something to make Tad see that his dad and his uncle aren't exactly playing with a full deck, but she sure can't tell him how she knows!<br />This was a fabulous addition to the Mediator series and a great sequel to Shadowland, especially since they are so close timewise.  Suze is in fine form in this book and lets nothing and no one get in her way.  Sure, she gets scared, but when she gets scared she usually gets angry, too, so it is pretty entertaining.  The supporting characters are great in this book and the story just sucks you in.  If you haven't read Shadowland (the first book in the Mediator series), you will still understand what is going on, but I highly recommend that you read all of the books in the series as they are excellent!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R39UGBV9WP7FGW	0743411420	645112784	Sanctuary (1-800-Where-R-You)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another Great Book By Carroll/Cabot!	Jessica \\"Jess\\" Mastriani was never what anyone would call a normal girl, but ever since she was hit by lightning, she can find anyone if she sees a picture of them.  Since getting this new talent, Jess' life was made miserable by the media and the military, so Jess pretended that she can't find anyone anymore and so is officially without powers.  However, there are a few people that know she can find people and most of the people in town, as well as the FBI, are pretty sure that she is faking.  So when Dr. Thompkins, the new African American doctor who just moved in across the street, swings by on Thanksgiving to ask Jess if she knows where Nate, his son is, Jess tries to explain that she doesn't do that anymore.  Turns out that Dr. Thompkins has no idea what Jess can do and was just trying to find out if she had seen Nate, as in with her eyes while awake.  Anyway, Jess is way too busy trying to sneak out of the house and over to Rob's house for her second Thanksgiving dinner to worry about where Nate is, until she is on her way home.  While Rob follows her on his motorcycle, Jess is stopped by a roadblock on the road and immediately assumes it is because she doesn't have a driver's license.  Okay, Jess is way old enough to drive and is a totally safe driver, she just likes to go a little fast.  I mean, how bad is it to be going 80 in a 25 mph zone?  Anyway, Jess soon finds out that the reason for the roadblock is they found Nate's body in a cornfield with a weird snake like tattoo carved on his chest.  Unluckily for Jess, Dr. Krantz, a special agent who is in charge of an elite team of \\"specially-gifted\\" crime solvers is on the scene to once again question if Jess has really lost her talents.<br />Jess feels guilty about not being able to save Nate and she knows when Seth, a Jewish boy, is missing and the synagogue is set on fire that she has to do something.  She dreams of Seth and knows where he is, calls in an anonymous tip, but doesn't tell the police that there are men with guns guarding Seth.  One of the cops is in critical condition after being shot and Jess knows that it is her fault.  She is determined to find Seth without getting anyone else involved - except for Rob, of course.  Rob gets a bunch of bikers from Chick's Bar to join them on their insane quest to rescue Seth from a group of white supremacists who live out in the woods and Jess is off on another one of her wild adventures...<br />This is the 4th book in the \\"Lightning Girl\\" or 1-800-WHERE-R-U series and it is just as hilarious and entertaining as the first three.  Of all of Cabot's/Carroll's series I would have to say that Jess is my favorite heroine and always makes me laugh while I am reading.  She is very honest and just says what she is thinking or feeling and it is just so funny!  Jess is always trying to get Rob to kiss her and to be her boyfriend, but he cannot date her because she is only 16 and he is 18 and on probation.  The situations she gets Rob and herself into are very entertaining.  I cannot recommend this series highly enough - all of the books by Cabot/Carroll are great, but this one is the best!  I simply cannot wait for another book in this series - I really hope that she keeps writing more!	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R1T3ZU0TLW6JIY	0399149384	814568729	Light in Shadow (Whispering Springs)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Highly Entertaining Contemporary Romance!	Zoe Luce has gone to great lengths to appear as normal as possible.  She changed her name and moved to Whispering Springs, AZ to make a fresh start and leave all who knew her behind.  However, it is hard to appear normal when walls start screaming at her in her new client's bedroom.  Zoe has always had sensitivity to rooms where great emotions were felt and she knows that something terrible happened in that room.  She has a sinking suspicion that her new client killed his wife in that room.  Zoe isn't sure what to do so she hires Ethan Truax, the new private investigator in town to find her client's wife, but Ethan is suspicious of Zoe and is determined to find out more about her.<br />Ethan knows that Zoe is not what she seems, especially after he finds her client's wife buried in the backyard, but he cannot seem to break through her shell - until Zoe gets a blackmail note.  When Ethan finds out that Zoe was imprisoned in a mental hospital by her dead husband's family, he knows that he has to protect her.  He is not sure why, but it is just something that he does.  When his brother was murdered, he lost his career, his third wife, everything to bring his rich and powerful killers to justice - and it was worth it.  Ethan, too, is starting over and he thinks that he has found the fresh start that he wants in Zoe.  However, Zoe and Ethan are way too stubborn and afraid to share their hopes and dreams with each other.  Will they admit their love before more lives are ruined?<br />I enjoyed this book more than I have enjoyed a Jayne Ann Krentz book in a while.  I really felt that Krentz was making an effort to differentiate her characters from other books that she had written and not do the stereotypical quirky heroine with stoic, incommunicative hero.  I really liked Zoe and found her to be quite normal (aside from the screaming walls thing) and Ethan was much more in tune with himself than most of the other heroes out there.  My only complaint was that there were a lot of side plots going on in the book and Krentz didn't have time to follow up on all of them in a satisfactory fashion.  I think that it would have been better for this book to have been split into two so that the characters and the plot could have been more developed.  Still, if you enjoy Krentz, I think you will like this one and it is worth your time to check it out from the library or buy from a used bookstore.t of side plots going on in the book and Krentz didn't have time to follow up on all of them in a satisfactory fashion.  I think that it would have been better for this book to have been split into two so that the characters and the plot could have been more developed.  Still, if you enjoy Krentz, I think you will like this one and it is worth your time to check it out from the library or buy from a used bookstore.	2003-08-19
US	46905518	R2MT1ESEAZ0XAP	0345369335	408501551	The Renegades of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern Series)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A Little Choppy, But Still a Good Read!	As long as the people of Pern could remember, dragons had fought Thread and kept people alive.  Everyone lived in strong stone fortresses or caves because Thread wouldn't eat through stone.  However, it had been hundreds of years since Thread had fallen on Pern and there were many who did not like to live behind stone walls, beholden to the Lord of the area and forced into careers that they did not want.  Some, like Jayge Lilcamp's clan were traders.  They traversed the length and breadth of Pern, bartering and taking messages to other holds.  They were always welcome at holds, especially ones that were out of the way.  However, when they ignored the warning that Thread was once again falling on Pern, his trader caravan was decimated.  Instead of being independent, they were now forced to accept whatever charity they could from the last hold the visited.  Jayge couldn't bear it and set out on his own.<br />Thella, sister of Telgar Hold's Lord, was bitter that she had not even been given the chance to become a Lady Holder.  She knew that she could do a better job than her brother.  Since she was passed by, she found her own hold and gathered together as many Holdless men as she could.  Then she set about robbing and plotting her revenge.  The only thing that was holding her back was the dragonriders because she could not risk being seen and tracked adragonback.  She found the solution to her problem in Aramina (seen in The Girl Who Heard Dragons short story), who could hear all dragons.  But Aramina escaped from her and was safely ensconced at Benden Hold.  However, Thella was not about to give up so easily...<br />The Renegades of Pern is, like Nerilka's story, a retelling of familiar events from unfamiliar points of view.  I highly recommend reading Dragonquest, The White Dragon, and The Girl Who Heard Dragons before reading this one because it will make a lot more sense than reading this one first.  It was interesting because all of the other books in the Pern series have been about someone who has a definite place in life on Pern: holder, dragonrider, harper, etc., but Jayge did not.  He could do a little bit of everything and was very resourceful.  I enjoyed hearing how Aramina made out in the end, even though I was very surprised at what ended up happening.  Although Jayge, Aramina, and Thella were what I would call the &quot;main&quot; characters, there was also quite a bit about Piemur and Toric, Holder of the Southern Continent, and the explorations and events taking place in at Southern, which was interesting.  My main complaint with the book was the huge number of multiple viewpoints.  It really made the book choppy and I know that I really wanted to find out what happened to a certain character and then was suddenly switched to someone else, which is kind of frustrating.  Still, The Renegades of Pern is very informative and it was interesting to see things from a very different point of view.  Recommended for readers of the Pern series - if you are new to the series, this is NOT the book to start with!ies have been about someone who has a definite place in life on Pern: holder, dragonrider, harper, etc., but Jayge did not.  He could do a little bit of everything and was very resourceful.  I enjoyed hearing how Aramina made out in the end, even though I was very surprised at what ended up happening.  Although Jayge, Aramina, and Thella were what I would call the &quot;main&quot; characters, there was also quite a bit about Piemur and Toric, Holder of the Southern Continent, and the explorations and events taking place in at Southern, which was interesting.  My main complaint with the book was the huge number of multiple viewpoints.  It really made the book choppy and I know that I really wanted to find out what happened to a certain character and then was suddenly switched to someone else, which is kind of frustrating.  Still, The Renegades of Pern is very informative and it was interesting to see things from a very different point of view.  Recommended for readers of the Pern series - if you are new to the series, this is NOT the book to start with!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R1YP6AVI57WUW3	0345456351	449599166	A Gift of Dragons (Pern)	Books	5	34	37	N	Y	Enchanting Addition to the Pern Series!	A Gift of Dragons contains 4 short stories that take place on Pern.  It includes:<br />The Smallest Dragonboy - Keevan is the youngest dragon candidate and he is also the smallest.  It is easy for other boys to pick on him and to make fun of his desire to become a dragonrider.  But this only makes Keevan more determined then ever to impress a dragon and on his first time on the hatching grounds, too!  But when a horrible accident leaves him alone in the hospital wing during hatching time, Keevan gives up hope that he will impress a dragon this year - or does he...?<br />The Girl Who Heard Dragons - Aramina and her family are Holdless, but they are not vagabonds or shiftless people who were tossed out of their holds because they were too lazy.  They were of Benden blood, forced to flee when Lord Fax killed all of their blood kin before he realized that Benden blood ran in Aramina's mother's veins.  And, just like many others of the Benden lineage, Aramina can hear dragons and talk to them.  She is careful to hide her skill, but Lady Holdless Thella found out somehow and is determined to use Aramina's talents for her own gain...<br />The Runner of Pern - Tenna is a runner, just like everyone in her family and spends her time running up and down the trails of Pern, delivering messages.  She is working hard to finish the stitches on her belt and no longer be an apprentice.  But when a reckless driver forces Tenna off of the runner trace, where no horses and carts are supposed to be allowed, Tenna is injured and upset.  She is determined to give this careless Halgion a good talking to...<br />Ever the Twain - Neru has always dreamed of becoming a dragonrider, but his twin Nian is afraid of life without him.  When the dragonriders come on Search, Neru is sure he will be chosen, but the dragons pass him by - and come to rest on Nian, whom they want to take to the Hatching Grounds.  Nian refuses to go without Neru, which makes Neru feel guilty and unwanted.  Still, he is determined to take advantage of the opportunity that his sister gave him and tries his hardest to fit into the Weyr.  Nian knows that she will do whatever it takes to get Neru to Impress a dragon, but she is quite surprised by what ends up happening at the hatching...<br />I thought that this book was too expensive for just four short stories when I initially bought it, but it really is quite a bit cheaper than buying the three other books that the first three stories are contained in.  Ever the Twain is a new story, however, and is only available here.  The stories are not that long and the type font and spacing are quite large, but the hand drawn illustrations and decorative border on every page make this book a little treasure.  A must have for anyone who is a fan of the Pern series!termined to take advantage of the opportunity that his sister gave him and tries his hardest to fit into the Weyr.  Nian knows that she will do whatever it takes to get Neru to Impress a dragon, but she is quite surprised by what ends up happening at the hatching...<br />I thought that this book was too expensive for just four short stories when I initially bought it, but it really is quite a bit cheaper than buying the three other books that the first three stories are contained in.  Ever the Twain is a new story, however, and is only available here.  The stories are not that long and the type font and spacing are quite large, but the hand drawn illustrations and decorative border on every page make this book a little treasure.  A must have for anyone who is a fan of the Pern series!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R2G1K2QC9RI5EX	0671788477	713783703	Darkest Hour (The Mediator)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Absolutely Fabulous!	It's Suze's 16th summer - her first in California - and she was all set to spend her time sunning on the beach and just generally hanging out, but her stepfather insisted that everyone work or go to summer school.  So Suze is trapped working as a babysitter at the Pebble Beach Hotel.  This is not as bad as it would seem because she does make $10 + tips and can get a killer wardrobe for school the next year.  Too bad this total loser keeps requesting her as his babysitter.  Well, its not that Suze doesn't like Jack, its that she doesn't like his older brother, Paul, seeing her in her stupid pleated khaki shorts that make her butt look like a wide load, but Suze is trying to make the best of it.<br />Suze is finally able to pry Jack away from the TV and down to the pool where she discovers that Jack is a mediator, like herself.  Suze figured out when she was really young that no other adults could see the dead people so she just didn't mention it to anyone - not even her mom.  Jack hadn't figured this out at quite such a young age and so had spent a lot of time in therapy.  Unfortunately, Suze wasn't able to spend as much time as she would like with Jack because Maria de Silva, a woman long dead, showed up in the middle of the night holding a knife to Suze's throat and threatening to kill her if she didn't stop her father and brother from digging the hole in the backyard.  As if she is going to give into some hoop-skirted skank who ordered Jesse, the hot ghost who haunts her room, killed 150 years before!  While trying to get Jack to act normal, convince Jesse that she wasn't in love with him, really, get revenge on Maria de Silva and avoid Jack's creepy, but hot, brother Paul, Suze finds herself in for a very interesting summer vacation...<br />This is the 4th book in The Mediator series and it is just as good, if not better, than its predecessors.  Suze is an awesome main character and readers will identify with her right away (aside from the seeing dead people thing, that is).  She is hilarious, but always has a very rational reason for doing what she does.  Too bad no one else ever understands what is going on inside her head but herself.  Anyway, this makes for some very interesting choices on Suze's part and it is fun to see her interact with the other, not-really-normal characters in the book.  If you haven't read any other books in the series, you can start with this one, but the series is so good that you should run out and buy them all for yourself!ing, that is).  She is hilarious, but always has a very rational reason for doing what she does.  Too bad no one else ever understands what is going on inside her head but herself.  Anyway, this makes for some very interesting choices on Suze's part and it is fun to see her interact with the other, not-really-normal characters in the book.  If you haven't read any other books in the series, you can start with this one, but the series is so good that you should run out and buy them all for yourself!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R1FHIR5YB6F0LP	1894869567	100585008	Christmas Paradise	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Sooooooooo NOT Worth the Price!	Tarralee \\"Tarry\\" Roessel was happy on her mountain. She had her crossbred wolf-Malamutes to train to be good sled dogs and was enjoying being alone. After raising 5 younger brothers by herself when her parents died when she was 16, she could definitely use some solitude. Sure she was 30 and still a virgin, never even been involved in a relationship, but she took care of her family and that was what mattered. Her brothers kept hoping that Tarry would get off the mountain and get a life, but they knew how stubborn she was so they had to go with subtle methods. So they didn't tell famous director/producer that their sibling who was great with animals was a girl.<br />When Tyrone Shields, said famous director, headed up to the middle of nowhere, he was very surprised to see a woman there. He wasn't sure who she was, but it appeared that a pack of vicious wolves were attacking her so he shot one of them. The next thing he knew, he had shot her in the side and himself in the shoulder and the little spitfire was yelling at him. Tarry wanted nothing more than to see Tyrone out of her life for good, but, with a blizzard coming in, she knew he would never make it down the mountain.<br />Even though Tarry was always kind and polite to people, she found herself snapping at Tyrone every time she spoke to him and couldn't wait for him to leave. But she found out that he played dirty - he wanted her to train her animals for his documentary about wolves and to get her off of the mountain so she could start living a real life. So, with her brothers' help, he \\"kidnapped\\" her, took her to his family's estate, and set about persuading her. Once Tarry decided to participate, Tyrone all but ignored her. Was she imaging the physical attraction between them? When she eventually manages to persuade Tyrone to get involved with her, she knew it was a mistake because they were from completely different worlds - and Tyrone didn't even believe in marriage! Tarry knew that she needed to cut Tyrone out of her life for good, if only it didn't feel like she was cutting her heart out too...<br />Christmas Paradise is a classic romance story with the jaded playboy falling for the inexperienced yet beautiful and talented woman. They have nothing in common and he doesn't believe in true love and marriage and stuff, but she manages to change his mind and they end up happily ever after. The book did this plot quite well, but was a little repetitive in the middle. Tyrone and Tarry had the same argument over and over again, which was pretty tiresome. Also, Tyrone seemed to bring out the worst in Tarry and she was quite the shrew when he was around. The ending was really abrupt, but it did end happily. I was disappointed that the author didn't develop the whole animal trainer for the movies better. It was just used as a device to get the two of them together and then it wasn't really mentioned again. I got to read this book free through an ebook service so I didn't shell out [$$] for it and I would recommend that you not pay this price either, it was okay, but go buy the 4 other books you could get for the price of this 1!one out of her life for good, if only it didn't feel like she was cutting her heart out too... <br />Christmas Paradise is a classic romance story with the jaded playboy falling for the inexperienced yet beautiful and talented woman. They have nothing in common and he doesn't believe in true love and marriage and stuff, but she manages to change his mind and they end up happily ever after. The book did this plot quite well, but was a little repetitive in the middle. Tyrone and Tarry had the same argument over and over again, which was pretty tiresome. Also, Tyrone seemed to bring out the worst in Tarry and she was quite the shrew when he was around. The ending was really abrupt, but it did end happily. I was disappointed that the author didn't develop the whole animal trainer for the movies better. It was just used as a device to get the two of them together and then it wasn't really mentioned again. I got to read this book free through an ebook service so I didn't shell out [$$] for it and I would recommend that you not pay this price either, it was okay, but go buy the 4 other books you could get for the price of this 1!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	RFQIUDDATPRSM	0671720996	596424713	The Lark and the Wren (Bardic Voices, Book 1)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Throughly Enjoyable!	Rune was a self-taught musician who had great dreams. She wanted to be famous and play for the wealthiest men in the land who would shower her with riches and treat her like a queen. Too bad she was stuck in the middle of nowhere working in a run down tavern with her slutty mother making a play for the newly widowed owner. Rune was born out of wedlock and had no future in the village, but was content to stay and work hard at the inn to keep a roof over her head and a full belly. That is, she was content until the boys in the village tried to rape her and made it perfectly clear that she was just like her mother. Rune didn't know what to do, but, when she was caught in the middle of her grand boasts to Jib, her only friend, she felt that she had to follow up with her claims and determined to go and fiddle for the Skull Hill Ghost - and survive!<br />Much to Rune's surprise, she did survive and the ghost even gave her a bag of silver to start her on her way. Rune couldn't be gone fast enough and immediately set out for the nearest city where she could get some training and learn how to read and write music. She was lucky enough to find Tonno, a great music lover who could never make it as a professional musician and a job playing music in the common room of Amber's, a high class whore house. Rune learned much more than music from Tonno and much more than the ways of men and women from Amber. By the time she was ready to leave to try out for the Bardic Guild, Rune was much more aware of what was going on around her and was determined to find a place for herself.<br />Unfortunately, Rune was not quite as smart as she thought she was. When the judges of the Bardic Guild competition discovered that she was a girl, they broke her instruments and her arm and left her in the mud. The Free Bards, led by Master Wren or Talaysen as his friends call him, took her in and taught her that you didn't have to belong to the Guild to be a great musician and to write good songs. Rune desperately wanted to learn and enjoyed her lessons with Master Wren, quickly gaining the nickname Lady Lark, and fitting into the Free Bards with ease. Now if only she could convince Talaysen that she saw him as more than a teacher...<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I didn't think that it was slow, as some other reviewers, but that it was really two books in one. It was like it was one story up until Rune tried out for the Bardic Guild and then another one altogether when she took up with the Free Bards, but, hey, two books for the price of one so I'm not complaining. I don't think that this is Mercedes Lackey's best book, but I definitely think its up there. Rune is a very likeable character who makes mistakes and has doubts as to her self worth, just as we all do, but continues to go forward and try to make her life better. All of the characters were fun and very individual and I think that Lackey has created a wonderful new world for us to explore.desperately wanted to learn and enjoyed her lessons with Master Wren, quickly gaining the nickname Lady Lark, and fitting into the Free Bards with ease. Now if only she could convince Talaysen that she saw him as more than a teacher... <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I didn't think that it was slow, as some other reviewers, but that it was really two books in one. It was like it was one story up until Rune tried out for the Bardic Guild and then another one altogether when she took up with the Free Bards, but, hey, two books for the price of one so I'm not complaining. I don't think that this is Mercedes Lackey's best book, but I definitely think its up there. Rune is a very likeable character who makes mistakes and has doubts as to her self worth, just as we all do, but continues to go forward and try to make her life better. All of the characters were fun and very individual and I think that Lackey has created a wonderful new world for us to explore.	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R39TU0OK7STA6Z	0064472779	9669590	All-American Girl	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely Hilarious - A Must Read!	Samantha \\"Sam\\" has definite theories about middle children and knows that they are all messed up, just like her.  While her older sister, Lucy, is busy being Miss Popularity as a high school cheerleader and great dresser, her younger sister, Rebecca, is a total brain and goes to a special private school for way accelerated learning, Sam is spending her time dying her whole wardrobe black in protest and trying to devise ways to convince Jack, Lucy's boyfriend, that he is really in love with her.  In her spare time, Sam draws portraits of her classmates with famous movie stars and makes pretty good money, too, until Lucy rats her out.  The next thing she knows, Sam is stuck in this stupid art class where the teacher keeps telling her to \\"see\\" and acts like she is the worst artist ever.<br />After the first humiliating class, Sam is determined never to return, so she hides in the CD store downstairs until her housekeeper comes to pick her up.  She notices a suspicious guy, whom she calls Mr. Uptown Girl on account of his listening to Billy Joel's hit umpteen times while she is waiting and thinks its pretty weird that he is waiting outside her art class, but whatever.  Much to her surprise, he pulls out a gun and tries to shoot the president, who is just trying to buy a cookie, for heaven's sake, and then astounds everyone, herself included, when she tackles Mr. Uptown Girl and takes him down.  Instant celebrity and hero status is conferred upon Sam and she finds herself dodging reporters, having dinner at the White House, and trying to figure out what the heck is going on with David, the president's son.  Sam immediately recognizes David from her art class and is desperate to keep him from mentioning that she skipped class the previous week, but David doesn't seem to care that much.  He does seem interested in her, though, but her heart is already taken, isn't it?<br />This is just a great story by Meg Cabot - I was laughing the whole way through.  Sam is a riot and it is so funny to go through her thought processes and see why she is doing what she does.  It was also a great story because Sam really learns to \\"see\\" and that it is okay to be normal and follow rules once in a while.  With a great cast of supporting characters and lots of hilarious, if improbable moments, this book is a must read!is so funny to go through her thought processes and see why she is doing what she does.  It was also a great story because Sam really learns to \\"see\\" and that it is okay to be normal and follow rules once in a while.  With a great cast of supporting characters and lots of hilarious, if improbable moments, this book is a must read!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R2OJYTUN88GAXF	0345418794	742538295	Dragonseye (Pern)	Books	5	46	48	N	N	Great Book for the Pern Lover!	It has been two hundred years since the last Threadfall on Pern and there is no one alive who remembers the deadly silver thread and its first horrific onslaught - except for the dragonriders.  For two centuries they have been faithfully practicing the manuevers that Sean O'Connell, the first Weryleader, had developed to most effectively fight Thread.  Now the signs of Threadfall are appearing: violent winter storms &amp; volcanic eruptions, as well as other, more subtle signs.  But one stubborn Lord Holder, Chalkin of Bitra, refuses to believe the signs.  He also refuses to let his people prepare for Threadfall or to let dragonriders patrol his holdings.  The Lord Holders must band together and find a way to deal with Chalkin before it is too late...<br />But, of course, Chalkin is not the only person who is causing problems.  Clisser, who is in charge of teaching, is forced to deal with Pern's slowly dying technology.  Most of the computers are already dead and unrepairable.  Students and parents are rebelling at learning &quot;useless&quot; information, such as wars fought on old Terran and other alien information.  Clisser and his fellow teachers must make the tough decision as to curriculum changes - do they begin teaching at the beginning of Pern's history and focus on the here and now or do they continue to teach their students to try and see beyond their own planet? Artist Iantine is caught up in Chalkin's evil wake when he accepted Chalkin's patronage and agreed to paint portraits of his children and his wife.  Little did Iantine realize that Chalkin would not be satisfied with any portrait that he made and that he would be forced to pay for food and lodging while staying in Chalkin's home.  When he was finally able to escape, he recorded the horrific circumstances of Chalkin's luckless people and forced the Lord Holder's council to realize that Chalkin was not doing his duty.  K'vin is the new Weyrleader of Telgar Weyr and is uncertain as to his relationship with the Weyrwoman, Zulaya, who is older than he and much more experienced.  As the newest Weyrleader, K'vin is determined to have Telgar put in a good showing at the first Threadfall.  If only he could get brave fools like P'tero to stop taking foolish risks to show off for their lovers!<br />At first, when I started reading Dragonseye, I assumed it was just like Dragonflight - no one believes Thread will fall anymore, it is up to the heroic dragonriders to save everyone, etc., but I was pleasantly surprised by the subtle - but critical - differences.  For one thing, Pern still has much of its technology intact at this point and people still remember the first settlers of Pern and why they came to the out of the way planet.  They still have computers, pianos, solar panels, etc., and can repair much of what they have.  This book covered the tough decisions as to what to pass on to future generations and how and the teaching ballads were born.  They also wanted to create something more concrete to warn future Pernese that Thread was coming so they created the Star Stones.  The Lord Holders were forced to look at the constitution of Pern and to make a decision regarding Chalkin and realize that lineage wasn't enough.  It was also interesting to see the language start to shift into what is more recognizable in Dragonflight as the people of Pern start to use the word 'turn' for 'year', etc.  Anyway, the story is familiar, but the characters contained are fresh and new and I greatly enjoyed this midway point between the original settlers and the time of F'lar and Lessa.  I particularly enjoyed learning about the artists and found Iantine to be one of my favorite characters in the series.  I know that other people have rated this book poorly, but I really enjoyed it and recommend it to other readers who have enjoyed the Pern series.ip with the Weyrwoman, Zulaya, who is older than he and much more experienced.  As the newest Weyrleader, K'vin is determined to have Telgar put in a good showing at the first Threadfall.  If only he could get brave fools like P'tero to stop taking foolish risks to show off for their lovers!<br />At first, when I started reading Dragonseye, I assumed it was just like Dragonflight - no one believes Thread will fall anymore, it is up to the heroic dragonriders to save everyone, etc., but I was pleasantly surprised by the subtle - but critical - differences.  For one thing, Pern still has much of its technology intact at this point and people still remember the first settlers of Pern and why they came to the out of the way planet.  They still have computers, pianos, solar panels, etc., and can repair much of what they have.  This book covered the tough decisions as to what to pass on to future generations and how and the teaching ballads were born.  They also wanted to create something more concrete to warn future Pernese that Thread was coming so they created the Star Stones.  The Lord Holders were forced to look at the constitution of Pern and to make a decision regarding Chalkin and realize that lineage wasn't enough.  It was also interesting to see the language start to shift into what is more recognizable in Dragonflight as the people of Pern start to use the word 'turn' for 'year', etc.  Anyway, the story is familiar, but the characters contained are fresh and new and I greatly enjoyed this midway point between the original settlers and the time of F'lar and Lessa.  I particularly enjoyed learning about the artists and found Iantine to be one of my favorite characters in the series.  I know that other people have rated this book poorly, but I really enjoyed it and recommend it to other readers who have enjoyed the Pern series.	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R173L8D653GCXV	0671788124	487343424	Reunion (The Mediator, No. 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This Time, Suze May Be In Over Her Head...	Suze is having a great time hanging out with Gina, her best friend from New York, who was able to come out and visit her. They have been hanging out at the beach every chance available and catching up on old times. Until Suze sees four ghosts trying to steal beer from a convenience store. Suze quickly discovers that the four, dubbed the \\"RLS Angels\\" by all who knew them, were killed in a freak car accident on the treacherous cliff roads in Carmel-by-the-Sea. The four, two boys and two girls, were some of the most beautiful and popular people at a very exclusive rich kids school. Unfortunately, they seem to be determined to punish Michael Meducci, the geeky kid who hit their car and forced them off the cliffside. Suze doesn't really want to be seen around Michael (talk about loss of popularity!), but she knows that that is the only way she'll be close enough to keep him alive. After saving Michael's life twice, Michael develops a huge crush on Suze and tries to hang out with her all the time. Suze is convinced that it is all just a big mistake and that she can get the ghosts to leave them alone through some of her kick-butt ghost busting techniques, but Father Dominic, her fellow mediator, talks her into trying to talk them out of it. After talking to the RLS Ghosts, Suze doesn't really like them any more than she did before, but she starts to suspect that Michael may not just be having a run of bad luck. I mean, his sister is in a coma from passing out at a pool party and he accidentally killed 4 people in a couple weeks, how can that be a coincidence? As Suze tries to piece everything together and find out who she should be protecting, she has to make some tough decisions about who to punish and how...<br />This is the third book in the Mediator series and it is every bit as good as the first two! I just think Suze is hilarious, but she is also very tough and you don't want to mess around with her. Michael was a great character, too, in that you weren't quite sure what was going on with him and he was a bit of a mystery. It was fun to meet Gina, Suze's friend from New York, and I always get a kick out of hearing about Suze's opinions of her stepbrothers (nicknamed Sleepy, Dopey & Doc by Suze). You can jump into the series with this book, but, because the series is so great, I highly recommend that you read all of the books - you will be cracking up the whole time!what was going on with him and he was a bit of a mystery. It was fun to meet Gina, Suze's friend from New York, and I always get a kick out of hearing about Suze's opinions of her stepbrothers (nicknamed Sleepy, Dopey & Doc by Suze). You can jump into the series with this book, but, because the series is so great, I highly recommend that you read all of the books - you will be cracking up the whole time!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	RVEZYCIBLLPX8	0345424603	867079822	The Masterharper of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	We Finally Get Masterharper Robinton's Story!	Deadly Thread has not fallen on Pern for centuries and there are many who believe that it will never fall again.  Those who believe and teach the old ways, such as the Harpers of Pern, are mocked and largely ignored.  Robinton is born during this trying time to Petiron and Merelan.  Merelan, blessed with a gorgeous soprano voice, had always wanted a child, but Petiron, arguably the most technically advanced composer in Harper Hall, did not.  When Robinton turns out to be a musical prodigy and is rapidly surpassing those far older than he, Merelan is careful to keep his gift hidden from Petiron and his jealousy.  Even though Robinton is not close to his father, he still has a relatively happy childhood, full of music and small joys.  He discovers that he can hear dragons, for one, and enjoys befriending the dragonriders who come to call.  Still, it is not without some relief that Robinton is able to start his career as a Harper Journeyman and travel to other holds.<br />Robinton quickly discovers that, although he believes Thread will return, most Pern residents do not share his assurance.  Benden Weyr is isolated and the holds do not send their tithes as faithfully as they used to.  There is also the insidious shadow of a threat from the self-titled Lord Fax, who has been slowly taking over holds and areas around his original land.  Robinton is there to witness Fax's clever assassination of F'lar and F'nor's father, the Benden Weyrleader and watches helplessly as Benden withdraws from the people of Pern more and more.  But he is distracted by the love of his life - Kasia.  He is overjoyed when they get married and envisions a whole new life and future for them.  So Robinton is devastated when his beloved Kasia is taken from him after only a few months of marriage.  He throws himself into his work, composing, traveling, trying to soothe people and convince them that the dragons are necessary to kill Thread.  Much to Robinton's surprise, but no one else's, Robinton is named Masterharper when the previous one starts losing his good health.  Robinton immediately sets out to support the dragonriders and do all that he can to keep an eye on Pern so he starts sending out spies and keeping track of Lord Fax...<br />I think that The Masterharper of Pern is one of McCaffrey's finest in the Pern series.  Of course, much of that is because I have always loved Robinton as a character and was just thrilled to read his story at last.  This book answered so many of my questions about Robinton - such as why he never married.  It also explained his close ties to the dragonriders and why so many people knew and loved him on Pern.  It is also an amazing story of a very talented man who refused to give up and become discouraged.  He had a difficult childhood, his father all but hating him and his talents, his mother passed away when he was still quite young, his wife was taken from him precipitously, and his only child, Camo (seen in the Harper Hall Trilogy, as is Petiron), is born a half-wit and will never be able to do anything musically.  Even though Robinton's life was difficult and full of tragedy, he spent all of his considerable effort and persuasion to keep Pern from ruin, insofar as he was able.  Readers who are familiar with the Pern series will be delighted with this book.  Readers who have not read anything in the Pern series will also be delighted with this book and will understand everything that is happening, although they may miss some of the subtle implications and nuances.  A must have for any fantasy fan!named Masterharper when the previous one starts losing his good health.  Robinton immediately sets out to support the dragonriders and do all that he can to keep an eye on Pern so he starts sending out spies and keeping track of Lord Fax...<br />I think that The Masterharper of Pern is one of McCaffrey's finest in the Pern series.  Of course, much of that is because I have always loved Robinton as a character and was just thrilled to read his story at last.  This book answered so many of my questions about Robinton - such as why he never married.  It also explained his close ties to the dragonriders and why so many people knew and loved him on Pern.  It is also an amazing story of a very talented man who refused to give up and become discouraged.  He had a difficult childhood, his father all but hating him and his talents, his mother passed away when he was still quite young, his wife was taken from him precipitously, and his only child, Camo (seen in the Harper Hall Trilogy, as is Petiron), is born a half-wit and will never be able to do anything musically.  Even though Robinton's life was difficult and full of tragedy, he spent all of his considerable effort and persuasion to keep Pern from ruin, insofar as he was able.  Readers who are familiar with the Pern series will be delighted with this book.  Readers who have not read anything in the Pern series will also be delighted with this book and will understand everything that is happening, although they may miss some of the subtle implications and nuances.  A must have for any fantasy fan!	2003-08-12
US	46905518	R1Q68BOEJZD03G	0064472825	43222945	Betrayed (Fingerprints #5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What Should Rae Do Now?	Rae just had the most amazing kiss of her life - from Anthony, the guy who always treated her like nothing more than a friend. However, he did just save her life from the kidnappers who had snatched her and Yana so maybe he didn't really mean it? After all, it seems that Rae is always causing Anthony trouble and he spends a lot of time bailing her out, but he seemed to really care about her. Rae knows that Anthony regrets the kiss when he totally keeps his distance from her, which sucks, because she really needs his help right now. She knows that guy who kidnapped her has been watching her, taking pictures of her, and she had even talked to him once! Rae can't even turn to Yana for help because Yana thinks that Rae betrayed a confidence and that Rae can't be trusted. She has never felt so alone...<br />Anthony knows that girls like Rae don't go out with guys like him. They go out with guys like Marcus, gorgeous, rich, perfect. He is really into Rae, but doesn't think he has a chance, so he takes Yana up on her offer and soon finds himself spending most of his time with her. When he isn't sucking face with Yana, he feels guilty about Rae, but doesn't know what he can do for her. Rae turns to Jesse, the boy she rescued from kidnapping in book #2 for help and drags him down to the Wilton Community Center to try and find out more about its secrets. She discovers a secret experimental lab in the basement and knows that the guy, Aiden Matthews, that she met there earlier knows a lot more than he is telling. But when Jesse is hit with a tranq dart, she knows that she cannot keep putting her friends in danger, even if it means trying to find out the rest of her mother's secrets on her own with a killer chasing after her...<br />This is fifth book in the Fingerprints series and takes place right after that stunning kiss at the end of the fourth book. The book totally keeps you going on the story and you really want to know what is going to happen with Rae's mother and with Rae and Anthony. If you haven't read all of the other books, though, it may not make a lot of sense to you. I highly recommend reading the other books in the series first and be prepared to read the ones after this one too because you'll never know what is going to happen otherwise!ae and Anthony. If you haven't read all of the other books, though, it may not make a lot of sense to you. I highly recommend reading the other books in the series first and be prepared to read the ones after this one too because you'll never know what is going to happen otherwise!	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R2B7LS8ND7GCPC	0064472817	690999444	Secrets (Fingerprints, Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Secrets Are Still Out There...	Rae Voight knows that Anthony is still mad at her for going behind his back to find out about his dad and he even tries to avoid being paired with her in group therapy, but they get stuck telling each other about their hopes and dreams.  Rae is surprised when she finds out that Anthony really wants to go to Sanderson Prep, her own high school, so that he can play football there.  Anthony knows that he can never go there because it is way too expensive and he can barely read, let alone pass a bunch of tests.  But Rae is determined to make this dream come true.  She helps Anthony study and learn to read better and sets up a tryout practice with the coach at Sanderson Prep.  Before he knows it, Anthony is on his way to the rich kids' school and he gets to play on the best football team in the area.<br />Rae is so happy to have Anthony at Sanderson with her - now she will finally have a friend at school!  However, things don't turn out the way that Rae planned.  She is shocked to discover Anthony hanging out with her old group of friends - even Marcus, her ex-boyfriend who is trying to get her back!  Rae doesn't know what to do and she finds herself leaning on Yana, her only girlfriend, more and more as more strange stuff happens.  First she gets some fungus on her tongue and is worried that she is developing the same symptoms her mother did before she died.  Then there is the creepy teacher, Mr. Jesperson, who always seems to be watching her.  And Rae still doesn't know anything more about her mother and the New Agey group that she was involved in before she was committed.  Rae has a feeling that she is finally going to find some answers when she finds out her mother's group used to meet at Wilton Community Center.  However, when she goes to the center and meets Aiden Matthews, she ends up having more questions than she did before.  Rae desperately wants to go over everything with Anthony - but all he ever talks about is football and Jackie, one of her ex-friends from before.  How can she deal with all of these secrets on her own?<br />This is the fourth book in the Fingerprints series and if you have read the first three before this, than this one just keeps drawing you in deeper.  Every time Rae finds out something about her mother there are a ton of other questions that pop up and the reader is really kept guessing as to what is going to happen.  And its not like Rae can just worry about her mom, she has to worry about not having any friends at school, whether she should get back with Marcus or not, what the heck she is supposed to do about Anthony, typical, normal life stuff.  Just be advised that the book has a total cliffhanger ending AGAIN - make sure to have book #5 ready to go!before.  How can she deal with all of these secrets on her own?<br />This is the fourth book in the Fingerprints series and if you have read the first three before this, than this one just keeps drawing you in deeper.  Every time Rae finds out something about her mother there are a ton of other questions that pop up and the reader is really kept guessing as to what is going to happen.  And its not like Rae can just worry about her mom, she has to worry about not having any friends at school, whether she should get back with Marcus or not, what the heck she is supposed to do about Anthony, typical, normal life stuff.  Just be advised that the book has a total cliffhanger ending AGAIN - make sure to have book #5 ready to go!	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R3F67J1ICVVIDI	006000620X	952711335	Payback (Fingerprints No. 7)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	We Finally Get to Hear Yana's Side!	Rae still can't believe that Yana, the girl she thought of as her best friend, the one who stuck by her and helped her rescue her friend Jesse and made her laugh, was trying to kill her the whole time.  How could someone be so nice to her and so fun to be around and totally hate her?  Rae hates herself for rationalizing Yana's behavior, but can't help but wonder what she would have done if she were in Yana's place...<br />Yana had finally managed to escape from Aiden Matthews and was determined to fix her mistake.  Someone was going to pay for her mother's death and, thanks to Aiden, she knew it wasn't Rae's mom, but that didn't make her mother any less dead.  Yana returns to the Wilton Community Center and starts trying to find out what really happened.  The first thing she discovers is that she can't use her powers on anyone there, so she has to play along with the crazy Cascone woman in charge and pretends that she just wants to learn more about her powers.<br />Rae is totally freaked when she learns that Yana has escaped, but she has Anthony to lean on and she has to help Mandy, the daughter of another one of the group members who was still learning to deal with her powers.  Besides, Anthony worried about Yana more than enough for the both of them.  So both of them were stunned when they found out that Yana believed them and that she was going after the committee in charge of the experiments.  Yana can't believe that Rae is willing to forgive her so easily for trying to kill her and keeps her distance.  The only one who seems to be able to help her now is Sam, another G-2 or second generation psi-power enhanced person, who has little left to loose since he is so close to dying anyhow...<br />This was just a great book.  I think it was one of my favorites in the series because all of the information is starting to make sense and the G-2s are finally ready to take some action and stop others from being experimented on.  The author keeps introducing cool new characters while keeping the old ones and big problems, such as how to keep the committee from killing them all, mixed in with smaller ones, like Marcus hating Anthony for taking Rae away from him.  It was great to see more of Jesse and Mandy and I think that I'm going to really like Sam because he can totally kick Yana's butt!  Make sure that you read the first 6 books in the series, though, or you won't appreciate the story as much.  Can't wait for another book to come out!acters while keeping the old ones and big problems, such as how to keep the committee from killing them all, mixed in with smaller ones, like Marcus hating Anthony for taking Rae away from him.  It was great to see more of Jesse and Mandy and I think that I'm going to really like Sam because he can totally kick Yana's butt!  Make sure that you read the first 6 books in the series, though, or you won't appreciate the story as much.  Can't wait for another book to come out!	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R19A5CCYEV6OR2	0064472663	86719682	Haunted (Fingerprints, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Is Rae's Ability A Blessing or a Curse?	Rae Voight is just barely starting to come to terms with her new powers - the powers that let her \\"hear\\" other people's thoughts when she touches her fingerprints to theirs.  Rae is still a little weirded out over the whole thing and hasn't even told Yana, the only girlfriend she has left whom she met in Fair Haven, while she was recovering from her mental breakdown the previous summer.  Of course, Anthony knows because he was the one who figured it out, but Rae knows that most people will think she is a freak.  She tries to forget that there is someone out there who wants her dead, but it never seems to be far from her mind.<br />Anthony comes to Rae for help when he finds out that Jesse, one of the kids he met in group who is like a brother to him, is missing.  Anthony knows that he wouldn't have run away, but he has no idea where to look for him.  Rae agrees to try and \\"read\\" the fingerprints at Jesse's house and before she knows it, Anthony, Rae and Yana are off on a madcap adventure to New Orleans to try and find Jesse's dad.  Too bad that the whole trip was a bust because Jesse's dad hasn't seen him for years and years.  Whats even worse is that Rae discovers that Jesse was only kidnapped to hurt her.  Someone is playing games with her and the prize is Jesse's life...<br />This is the second book in the Fingerprints series and it starts almost right after the first one ends.  It was interesting to see Rae start to see her powers as a gift instead of a curse and to see how she would choose to use them.  We also got to see more of Anthony and what a great guy he is, even if he is a slow learner and is always beating up on himself.  All of the characters in this series are great and the reader will feel like they know them when they are done reading.  I highly recommend reading the first book in the series, Fingerprints: Gifted Touch, first though.  Also, this book has another cliffhanger ending with the reader still being clueless as to who wants Rae dead and why so I would have the next book in the series handy...why so I would have the next book in the series handy...	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R96V2Z3Q03D1L	0064472833	971555919	Revelations (Fingerprints, Book 6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rae Was Ready to Get On With Her Life...	Steve Mercer, the scientist who enhanced the psi abilities of people like her mother, and herself, was finally dead.  Rae was definitely ready to put all of this behind her and to move forward.  The first step towards being normal again was to get back together with Marcus.  He doesn't make Rae feel anywhere near the same as Anthony, but Yana and Anthony totally betrayed her trust and so she is ready to go with someone safe, someone normal.  She feels like she has succeeded when she and Marcus are voted Moonbeam King & Queen, but Anthony destroys the evening by telling her that someone still wants her dead.<br />Anthony wishes that he could relax now that Mercer is dead, but he knows that the danger to Rae is not over.  For one thing, someone painted Unclean all over her locker in red and then passed out flyers about Rae's mother all over school.  Anthony is trying to protect Rae, but she can hardly stand to be around him.<br />When Yana shows up, begging Rae for help, Rae really wants to turn her down flat.  But when she finds out that Yana's dad wants to send her to Fair Haven, a mental institution, so that she will be out of his way, Rae knows that she has to do something.  She could hardly stand to be in that place and can't bear to see someone else locked up there.  What Rae doesn't know is that she is in the middle of another deadly game - and this time, Rae's life is the prize...<br />Book #6 in the Fingerprints series was another great book.  The tension is really building and everything is starting to come together and make sense.  A lot of my questions were answered here and it is now time for Rae to start making some plans instead of just reacting.  Too bad that she seems too stupid to connect the dots!  That was my only complaint about this book, that Rae didn't seem able to put the clues together so she was totally clueless near the end of the book.  I know that she is smarter than that!  Anyway, hopefully you have read the first 5 books in the series so you know what is going on, and, if not, I would highly recommend reading them first.  For the first time, there is actually some closure at the end of this book, but we know that Rae's story is far from over.  Keep #7 ready to find out what happens to Rae & Anthony next!so you know what is going on, and, if not, I would highly recommend reading them first.  For the first time, there is actually some closure at the end of this book, but we know that Rae's story is far from over.  Keep #7 ready to find out what happens to Rae & Anthony next!	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R1F7LF0RWCSVO	0064472655	584817030	Gifted Touch (Fingerprints, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Was Rae As Crazy As Her Mother?	Rae Voight had worked very hard to become who she was at Sanderson Prep High School.  She was the girlfriend of the school's quarterback, the most gorgeous guy in school and everyone wanted to be her friend.  Everyone thought that her life was perfect.  Of course, Rae never told anyone that her mother died in a mental hospital from a mysterious disease or that Rae's mom was in the hospital because she murdered her best friend.  Rae had always worried that she would grow up to be like her mother and her worst fears came true when she started hearing strange thoughts in the school cafeteria and had a total breakdown.<br />After spending the summer at Fair Haven, an upscale psychiatric facility, Rae tries to convince herself that she is ready to go back to school.  But even though she told everyone that she was better, Rae knows that she still gets those weird thoughts.  Rae tries to resume her old life, but her best friend hates and fears her, her boyfriend started dating another girl and didn't even bother to tell her, and everyone seems to be whispering about her when she walks down the hallway.  When a pipe bomb goes off in the bathroom of the Oakvale Institute where Rae is having group therapy, the strange thoughts tell her that someone wants to kill her.  She saw Anthony Fascinelli, one of the guys in her group, leave the girls' restroom right before she entered and tells the police, but immediately wishes that she hadn't.  Somehow Rae knows that Anthony didn't do it, but she has no idea how to prove it.  Anthony wants to hate Rae, but he quickly discovers that Rae can pick up people's thoughts if she places her fingerprints over theirs.  Can Rae use her newfound ability to get Anthony out of juvie?  And who is trying to kill her and why?<br />Fingerprints: Gifted Touch is a solid beginning for a good series.  Rae is a great character.  She is just a typical teenager worrying about all of the typical stuff - guys, school, etc. - when her whole life starts going out of control.  The author did a great job at dealing with all of Rae's relationships with the other characters in the book and it was fun to get to know all of the people.  Some of what happened in the book seemed pretty unlikely, like the pipe bomb in the girls' bathroom, but the plot is fast paced so the reader won't get bored.  The story does have a cliffhanger ending, though, and so you will want to have the next book handy when you finish!ut of control.  The author did a great job at dealing with all of Rae's relationships with the other characters in the book and it was fun to get to know all of the people.  Some of what happened in the book seemed pretty unlikely, like the pipe bomb in the girls' bathroom, but the plot is fast paced so the reader won't get bored.  The story does have a cliffhanger ending, though, and so you will want to have the next book handy when you finish!	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R284QJREQRN6YP	0064472671	783210115	Trust Me (Fingerprints, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	She Was Only Trying to Help....	Rae Voight knew that she owed Anthony for all of his help - big time.  He was the one who discovered that she wasn't going crazy, she just was picking up other people's thoughts when she touched their fingerprints.  Rae is learning how to control her new skills, but she can't help but remember that Anthony's deepest wish and biggest fear is to find out about his dad.  Rae wants to do something nice for Anthony and so she convinces Yana to help her find out about Anthony's father.  Rae quickly discovers that Anthony's dad is in Scott State Prison.  She doesn't want to tell Anthony, though, not until she knows what kind of a guy his father is.  Unfortunately, Anthony's dad won't talk to her so Yana comes up with a plan to get them into Scott State and even get a full on tour!  While she's there, Rae \\"reads\\" someone's thoughts and realizes that there is someone in prison who knew Rae's mother, Melissa.  But who, and how?  Rae doesn't get the chance to find out and she can't even tell Anthony because he is furious with her about finding his dad.<br />Anthony doesn't know what to do about his dad.  He finds out from Rae that he is in jail for killing someone during an armed robbery and knows that he can never be good enough to be around someone like Rae.  He tries to keep his distance from her and even agrees to start doing some robbing with a group of other guys to make some money.  Rae is really hurt by Anthony's attitude, but she is determined to find out the truth about her mother.  Her mother died in a mental hospital after murdering her best friend.  Rae can't understand why her dad just doesn't face the fact that her mom wasn't the great person he thought she was, but she is also starting to wonder if her mom had powers too...<br />This is the third book in the Fingerprints series and it starts right after #2 ends so it is really helpful to read the first two books first.  This book is more about deepening the mystery around Rae & her mother and furthering the plot from previous books than anything new going on.  If you have read the first two books, you'll totally be into it; if not, you will feel like the book is kind of pointless.  Still, the characters are great and the book is fast paced.  Just remember to have the next books in the series ready to go when you finish!lot from previous books than anything new going on.  If you have read the first two books, you'll totally be into it; if not, you will feel like the book is kind of pointless.  Still, the characters are great and the book is fast paced.  Just remember to have the next books in the series ready to go when you finish!	2003-07-30
US	46905518	R39CDC94DDHXPZ	0843951702	243266322	The Only One	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An Enjoyable Anthology, But Nothing Great	The Only One contains three stories written by Christine Feehan, Susan Grant & Susan Squires.<br />Dark Descent by Christine Feehan<br />Traian is hunting a pack of vampires in the Carpathian mountains when he finds Joie, whom he immediately recognizes as his lifemate.  Traian does not have much time to explain things to Joie and relies on her to persuade her brother and sister that they have to trust Traian if they want to escape the caverns that they were exploring.  On their way out, they discover an old treasure trove of the wizards who passed away long ago.  However, the wizards' spells still work just fine.  As Traian battles the vampires, the wizards' spells and Joie's doubts about him, he is one busy man trying to claim his lifemate and keep everyone alive!  I bought this book just because Ms. Feehan had written a story in it and I enjoyed the story, but was a little disappointed because it is so short!  Still, it was good to read a story about a Carpathian who had some limitations, which made him more vulnerable and human-like.  If you have enjoyed the Dark series, you will enjoy Traian's story and I am hoping that Ms. Feehan is using this story as a set up for more interaction with wizarding stuff.<br />The Star Queen by Susan Grant<br />Romjha B'kah is dead inside.  Everyone thinks that he just needs time to recover from his wife's death, but Romjha has given up hope for his people who were forced to hide underground to when the imperial raiders came to destroy his planet.  But when Taj Sai gives an impassioned speech about how destiny is not a matter of chance, but of choice, Romjha comes alive again.  He is determined to rid his planet of the invaders and to win the heart of Taj, but he has great patience and is willing to wait until he is the man that Taj deserves as her mate.  This was my first chance to read anything by Susan Grant and I enjoyed it very much.  The story was great and had a nice flow and was the perfect length.  I found the characters well developed and fascinating and look forward to reading more in Grant's Star series.<br />Sacrilege by Susan Squires<br />Magda was being forced out into the world after living in the safety of the Mirso Monastery for centuries.  It was true that, when she first was left at Mirso, she hated the place, but, as time passed, she found a kind of peace and could use the Nine Precepts to keep her companion, that which made her a vampire, under control.  She wanted to stay at Mirso and begged Brother Pietr not to send her back out into the world where she could be tempted to kill humans again, but it was time for her to start living again.  Magda felt bereft and alone, clinging to the Nine Precepts, one of which was to feel no emotion, to survive.  When the Harrier, the hunter and slayer of her kind, showed up to kill her, Magda had no idea why, but she quickly discovered that it was because Pietr had fallen in love with her.  Pietr, her teacher, the one who taught her not to feel, Magda refused to believe it and tries to reject Pietr's love, but the two lovers will need all of the power that they have to defeat the Harrier and have some kind of life together.  This was my least favorite of the stories.  Although it was well written, I just didn't feel very much for the characters and felt that I was a little out of it because Magda was a character in Sacrament, one of Squires' other books, which I have not read.  Still, it was interesting and I liked Pietr's character, too bad that we couldn't have learned a little more about him instead of Magda!l developed and fascinating and look forward to reading more in Grant's Star series.<br />Sacrilege by Susan Squires<BR>Magda was being forced out into the world after living in the safety of the Mirso Monastery for centuries.  It was true that, when she first was left at Mirso, she hated the place, but, as time passed, she found a kind of peace and could use the Nine Precepts to keep her companion, that which made her a vampire, under control.  She wanted to stay at Mirso and begged Brother Pietr not to send her back out into the world where she could be tempted to kill humans again, but it was time for her to start living again.  Magda felt bereft and alone, clinging to the Nine Precepts, one of which was to feel no emotion, to survive.  When the Harrier, the hunter and slayer of her kind, showed up to kill her, Magda had no idea why, but she quickly discovered that it was because Pietr had fallen in love with her.  Pietr, her teacher, the one who taught her not to feel, Magda refused to believe it and tries to reject Pietr's love, but the two lovers will need all of the power that they have to defeat the Harrier and have some kind of life together.  This was my least favorite of the stories.  Although it was well written, I just didn't feel very much for the characters and felt that I was a little out of it because Magda was a character in Sacrament, one of Squires' other books, which I have not read.  Still, it was interesting and I liked Pietr's character, too bad that we couldn't have learned a little more about him instead of Magda!	2003-07-18
US	46905518	RV4XVZHJM1Y2K	0505525402	834515252	Unearthed	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Fast Paced Science Fiction Adventure w/Plenty of Romance!	Tess MacKenzie is trying her hardest to make it to the big time.  She put her singing/songwriting on hold for years to help her parents run their business, but now it is her time to succeed.  So when Cohl Travers, a sexy alien and his robot, Pitz, kidnap her, Tess is less than pleased.  She can't believe that Cohl needs her voice to find some amulet on a long deserted planet to save the life of his father.  Things like this just don't happen to her!<br />Cohl Travers is the best treasure hunter in the galaxy, but he refused to find the amulet for the Trakas, knowing that the warring brothers would use the amulet's power to destroy their people.  However, when the Traka-Sou kidnap his father, they have made Cohl an offer he cannot refuse.  When he finally found the perfect voice match to sing the amulet, he let nothing stand in his way to bring Tess up to his spaceship.  Cohl was determined not to like the beautiful Tess, after all, she may die trying to get the amulet, and, if she lives, she will be returning to Earth, but he is irresistibly drawn to her.  Too bad every other person in the vicinity feels the same way!<br />Tess has no idea what she is getting herself in for, but she refuses to help Cohl, until they stop for repairs on Cohl's planet and finds out that Cohl is the prince and heir to the throne.  She is persuaded by the love that all of the citizens feel for Cohl and his family to try and retrieve the amulet to save this beautiful world.  Still, she cannot understand why Cohl denies his birthright and wanders around space getting into all kinds of dangerous situtations.  Doesn't he realize how much the people love him and he loves them?  As time goes by and Tess spends more and more time with Cohl as they escape from enemies, ferret out spies and hunt down the amulet, she begins to dread the time when Cohl will return her to Earth - but how can she stay if he refuses to admit he has feelings for her?<br />This is a great science fiction story with plenty of romance thrown in.  I loved the characters and felt that they struck a good balance between being stubborn, but not stupid and willing to compromise.  There was a great relationship that developed between Tess and Cohl and there are some hot and steamy scenes between the two of them.  C.J. Barry's descriptions of the worlds in outer space were great and all of the alien worlds were unique.  The plot was fast paced, the book was well written, the romance was hot - this is definitely an author to keep an eye out for!enty of romance thrown in.  I loved the characters and felt that they struck a good balance between being stubborn, but not stupid and willing to compromise.  There was a great relationship that developed between Tess and Cohl and there are some hot and steamy scenes between the two of them.  C.J. Barry's descriptions of the worlds in outer space were great and all of the alien worlds were unique.  The plot was fast paced, the book was well written, the romance was hot - this is definitely an author to keep an eye out for!	2003-07-18
US	46905518	R2LJJIQ6LUWBV	0756401224	223452361	Joust: Joust #1 (Dragon Jousters)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	The Start of a Wonderful New Series!	Vetch was still alive because he was simply too stubborn to die.  He refused to show any emotion to his master, Khefti-the-Fat, even when he was beaten and starved.  As an Altan serf, Vetch had no rights among the conquerers, the Tians.  He had watched the Tian army murder his father and then his whole family enslaved and separated.  Vetch had little or no hope that his life would improve, but he felt that it was unfair that one of the famed Jousters, warriors who rode dragons, had to make his life a little more miserable.  After hauling a heavy bucket of water for a long distance, the Jouster had taken the bucket and dumped the water over his head before Vetch could stop him.  Of course, Khefti blamed Vetch for not watering the tala plants and started to beat him, as usual.  But the Jouster was not a typical Tian and felt pity for Vetch.  The Jouster, Ari, needed a dragon boy to tend to his dragon, Kashet.  And so Vetch's whole life was changed in an instant as he was taken to the dragon compound and taught how to tend to the great dragons of the Tian army.  Vetch found, to his surprise, that he liked the dragons and the dragons seemed to respond to his care.  If Vetch had to be a serf, this was the best place to be, but Vetch still dreamed of freedom and hatched a daring plan to escape from his captors...<br />I simply loved this book.  Vetch was such an engaging and wonderful character that I was really rooting for him the whole time.  The secondary characters were also wonderful and I suffered along with Ari as he tried to reconcile his honor with his orders, the great overseer Haraket, the falconer Baken and so many others.  I thought that the world this book was set in was quite fascinating and was reminiscent of ancient Babylonia and Egypt.  The dragons were different than other dragons in that they were definitely animals and incapable of thinking for themselves, but they could learn some affection for their masters if shown kindness and love.  My only complaint with the book is that it was not edited very well and there are quite a few grammatical errors, nothing that detracts from the story, but the editor did not do a good job.  Still, I am eagerly awaiting the next book in this series to see what happened to all of these new friends I have found!aint with the book is that it was not edited very well and there are quite a few grammatical errors, nothing that detracts from the story, but the editor did not do a good job.  Still, I am eagerly awaiting the next book in this series to see what happened to all of these new friends I have found!	2003-07-18
US	46905518	R1DCF4IZTOX99N	0425070611	607459086	Young Rissa	Books	3	7	13	N	N	A Disappointment	Rissa was very young when her parents were killed covering a news story.  Her uncle came to care for Rissa and her brother, but the Welfare system denied him guardianship and took the two to a Welfare Center where they were separated.  Rissa gradually forgot life before the Welfare Center and endured day after day of drudgery.  When she was selected to be the new secretary for one of the managers, she was able to tap into more information than she was supposed to learn about.  She tried to track down her brother, but could never get into see him.  When the news came that she had won the lottery and now had enough credits to leave the Welfare Center, Rissa was thrilled.<br />Overjoyed with her newfound wealth and the chance to escape the hated Welfare Center, Rissa soon finds out that the UET, the US government that controls everything, has plans to get all the money back and to send Rissa back to Welfare.  Rissa is determined not to let it happen to her, so she follows the advice of an old friend of her parents and escapes to South America, where the Hulzein family trains her in combat, disguises, sex and many other necessary skills to survive.  After a year of training, Rissa escapes Earth and rides on the starship Inconnu with Captain Tregare to Planet One of the Hidden Worlds where she hopes no one will find her.<br />Rissa contacts the Hulzein family on Planet One, who take her in, but not before she makes a mortal enemy of del Nardo, one of the government workers with a powerful family.  Rissa refuses to let del Nardo beat her and challenges him to combat, which she is determined to win.  While she waits for the combat day, she finds that she has started to care for people again and feels that the Hulzeins are a kind of family to her.  For the first time in many years, it matters to Rissa if she lives or dies and so she is determined to win the combat and to make a life for herself on Planet One.<br />I was expecting a lot from this book because of all of the glowing reviews.  I wonder if I read the same book that they did because I don't see a whole lot of role model in Rissa.  There is quite a bit of violence in the book - Rissa is raped daily by her boss at the Welfare Center, she is raped by Tregare while she is traveling on the Inconnu, and she also kills quite a few people along the way.  I found Rissa to be a hard character to like because she had no feelings for anything until the very end of the book and by then I had no feelings for her.  Some of the story was interesting, but it was written pretty blandly without a lot of excitement and Rissa talks in a very stilted sort of way, I'm not sure why.  It was an okay read, but nothing that I will pursue any further.glowing reviews.  I wonder if I read the same book that they did because I don't see a whole lot of role model in Rissa.  There is quite a bit of violence in the book - Rissa is raped daily by her boss at the Welfare Center, she is raped by Tregare while she is traveling on the Inconnu, and she also kills quite a few people along the way.  I found Rissa to be a hard character to like because she had no feelings for anything until the very end of the book and by then I had no feelings for her.  Some of the story was interesting, but it was written pretty blandly without a lot of excitement and Rissa talks in a very stilted sort of way, I'm not sure why.  It was an okay read, but nothing that I will pursue any further.	2003-07-18
US	46905518	R1SNROQE2P8KD4	0451404904	241877312	Lord of the Storm (Dreamspun)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	I Can't Believe This Book is Out of Print!	Captain Shaylah Graymist, hero of the Coalition and ace fighter pilot, was tired and more than ready for a little r & r.  She heads over to visit her old friend, Califa, and finds that Califa has a little surprise gift in store for her - Wolf, a pleasure slave.  Shaylah is stunned when she sees the gorgeous man that Califa has saved for her to try out.  She has always hated the Coalition's slave policy, but she is undeniably drawn to the sexy man ready to serve her every whim.  Still, she cannot force herself to use the control that operates the slave color Wolf wears to make him want her.  Shaylah decides that it is better just to keep him around so that he won't be punished anymore and to treat him like a human being for the first time in many long years.<br />Wolf doesn't know what to make of Shaylah.  He was expecting another Coalition officer who would be only too happy to take advantage of his many charms, but Shaylah was different.  She seemed to truly care for him and spent a whole week without using his body.  Wolf finally found someone that he could open up to and told Shaylah a bit about his life on Trios, the gorgeous planet that was captured through trickery by the intergalactic Coalition - the same Coalition that Shaylah works for.  When Shaylah betrays his trust at the end of the week, Wolf is furious and feels that Shaylah was just playing with him to give his captors the key to break him.  When he becomes uncontrollable, Califa sells him to the brutal mining colony that is the last stop for rebellious slaves.<br />When Shaylah discovers what happened to Wolf because she wanted the pleasure of one evening in Wolf's arms, she feels responsible and heads out across the galaxy to save him.  They are forced to hide on her ship together to try to avoid Coalition notice and the close quarters change their relationship into something more intimate, but not quite the friendship that they shared when they first met.  Shaylah has just about convinced Wolf that she truly feels for him when he finds out that she has been keeping critical information from him - some of his fellow Triotians are alive!  Determined to rejoin his people, Wolf forces Shaylah to take him there and nothing can prepare Shaylah for what she will find on the planet of Trios...<br />I am so glad that I found this book for sale on the internet.  It is well written and the characters are wonderful!  I really liked Wolf and Shaylah and thought that the worlds that they explored throughout their adventures were well developed, too.  the book is a fast, fun read that is fast paced and can be read in a couple of hours.  I am eagerly awaiting the arrival of the sequel, The Skypirate, which I hope will be just as good.  I know the price is a little high to buy this book but the relationship between Wolf and Shaylah is hot, hot, hot and you will love the story so find a copy and buy it!she truly feels for him when he finds out that she has been keeping critical information from him - some of his fellow Triotians are alive!  Determined to rejoin his people, Wolf forces Shaylah to take him there and nothing can prepare Shaylah for what she will find on the planet of Trios...<br />I am so glad that I found this book for sale on the internet.  It is well written and the characters are wonderful!  I really liked Wolf and Shaylah and thought that the worlds that they explored throughout their adventures were well developed, too.  the book is a fast, fun read that is fast paced and can be read in a couple of hours.  I am eagerly awaiting the arrival of the sequel, The Skypirate, which I hope will be just as good.  I know the price is a little high to buy this book but the relationship between Wolf and Shaylah is hot, hot, hot and you will love the story so find a copy and buy it!	2003-07-18
US	46905518	R3SFPZO1DEUVVZ	0451095790	308882927	April of Enchantment	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Contemporary Romance!	Laura Nichols loved the old mansions of Louisiana and was determined to save as much of the South's history as possible.  She had taken several courses in historical restoration and was a capable historical consultant.  All she needed was a showpiece to really display her talents so she was thrilled when Masters & Masters Construction offered her the job as historical consultant to restore Crapemyrtle, a nearby family mansion.  However, her chance to restore Crapemyrtle, a beautiful edifice she had been drawn to even as a child, was in jeopardy when she met the new owner, Justin Roman.  Justin knew there was no way that this young slip of a thing could be qualified to restore his family's mansion.  She looked barely old enough to be out of high school and she didn't have a college degree.  Justin was sure that his old friend Russ Masters, who was in charge of the construction for the building, had given Laura the job because she was his girlfriend.  Finally, after much persuasion, Justin agreed to give Laura a trial period, but he was determined to watch her like a hawk.<br />Laura knew that Justin didn't approve of her, but she was determined to do her best on the old mansion.  She pulled out her great-great grandmother's diary and used the details contained therein to make the restoration as historically accurate as possible.  No detail was too small for her to pay attention to and she was able to save many treasures from destruction.  As time went by, Justin seemed to be warming up to her and her ideas.  He gave her carte blanche to restore the building and to decorate it in period style.  But Justin's finance, Myra, hated the old house and wanted to modernize everything.  Myra was also positive that Laura had her sights set on Justin and was determined to keep them apart.  Still, as Laura and Justin continued to restore Crapemyrtle to its old glory, they drew closer and closer together.  But what kind of a future do they have when Justin refuses to break his engagement with Myra?<br />This was a great romance with two star-crossed lovers who just happened to meet a little later in life than they should have.  Laura and Justin are both wonderful characters who the reader will truly care about and all of the secondary characters were well developed, too.  My favorite part of the book, though, was all of the detail about the restoration of the old house.  I learned a lot about antiques and Southern plantations from the book and could tell that the author, Maxine Patrick aka Jennifer Blake, spent a lot of time doing research for this story.  It is pretty short, but beautifully written and well paced.  A great contemporary romance!agement with Myra?<br />This was a great romance with two star-crossed lovers who just happened to meet a little later in life than they should have.  Laura and Justin are both wonderful characters who the reader will truly care about and all of the secondary characters were well developed, too.  My favorite part of the book, though, was all of the detail about the restoration of the old house.  I learned a lot about antiques and Southern plantations from the book and could tell that the author, Maxine Patrick aka Jennifer Blake, spent a lot of time doing research for this story.  It is pretty short, but beautifully written and well paced.  A great contemporary romance!	2003-07-16
US	46905518	R33E7UL4EO92SK	0812585658	884836238	The Year of the Lucy	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	A Disappointing "Romance"	Mirelle Martin was different from all of the other housewives she met.  Her mother was a famous soprano who married a handsome English lord, but he was not Mirelle's father.  No, Mirelle's father was the Hungarian portrait painter, Lajos Neagu, who had an affair with Mirelle's mother while he painted her.  In order to save her marriage, Mirelle's mother was forced to send her to live with a friend in the US where Mirelle grew up.  Mirelle knew that her background was unusual, but she didn't really think it was anything to be ashamed of, until she met Steve.  Steve was wonderful when they first met, so handsome and playful with her, unlike all of the other men that she knew.  After they married, Mirelle tried her hardest to become the perfect wife and mother for their three children.  Her past did not come up often and it didn't seem to matter to anyone - until her father died and left her some art in his will, acknowledging her as his daughter.  Steve's parents were humiliated and made Mirelle feel cheap and unwanted.  In order to spare them any embarrassment, Mirelle never talked about her past and tried to give up her sculpting to see to Steve's needs.<br />Steve was a salesman and traveled a lot in his work for the company.  Mirelle tried to make new friends when they moved and that is how she first met Lucy, who tried to make Mirelle stand up for herself and her art and to be someone instead of just Steve's wife.  But when Steve's job forced them to move again, Mirelle couldn't stand the heartbreak of leaving more friends behind so she isolated herself.  When she heard of Lucy's death, it sparked a change within her and Mirelle started sculpting again, started living again.  Then she met James Howell, the handsome pianist who lived nearby and an attraction developed between them.  Mirelle was lonely and Steve was so judgmental these days, she needed someone who understood the urge to create and to display talent in an artistic way.  But was Mirelle ready to make such big changes in her life?  As Mirelle lives through the year after her friend's death, she risks everything to make her life more meaningful...<br />As I expected from McCaffrey, this book is well written and the characters are quite engaging, especially Mirelle, who really blossomed in this book.  I wish that we could have seem more of Lucy and I felt that Steve was a kind of shadow figure, but, for the most part, the secondary characters were fun to get to know.  I didn't particularly enjoy the relationship between Mirelle & James, who became more than just friends at one point in the book.  Mirelle is married and knows that Steve has cheated on her while he is away on sales trips, but she justifies her relationship with James by saying that she doesn't care about sex, it is just an act and means nothing.  This really turned me off and I felt that the romance between Steve & Mirelle and Mirelle & James was shallow and neither man meant that much to Mirelle.  I enjoyed watching Mirelle grow and her sculpting develop, but this book is basically a story about two love triangles, Mirelle's mother, her husband & the handsome painter and Mirelle, her husband & her handsome neighbor with history being repeated.  I can understand why the book went out of print because it is a bit dated in its context and it is hard to justify a husband and wife both cheating on each other and thinking that it didn't matter.such big changes in her life?  As Mirelle lives through the year after her friend's death, she risks everything to make her life more meaningful...<br />As I expected from McCaffrey, this book is well written and the characters are quite engaging, especially Mirelle, who really blossomed in this book.  I wish that we could have seem more of Lucy and I felt that Steve was a kind of shadow figure, but, for the most part, the secondary characters were fun to get to know.  I didn't particularly enjoy the relationship between Mirelle & James, who became more than just friends at one point in the book.  Mirelle is married and knows that Steve has cheated on her while he is away on sales trips, but she justifies her relationship with James by saying that she doesn't care about sex, it is just an act and means nothing.  This really turned me off and I felt that the romance between Steve & Mirelle and Mirelle & James was shallow and neither man meant that much to Mirelle.  I enjoyed watching Mirelle grow and her sculpting develop, but this book is basically a story about two love triangles, Mirelle's mother, her husband & the handsome painter and Mirelle, her husband & her handsome neighbor with history being repeated.  I can understand why the book went out of print because it is a bit dated in its context and it is hard to justify a husband and wife both cheating on each other and thinking that it didn't matter.	2003-07-16
US	46905518	R24OK2VWKTT6UN	1553165209	823223233	Into the Fire	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fast-Paced Romantic Sci Fi Adventure!	Dr. Kerra Telsier had just done the hardest thing ever asked of her - she destroyed her own research.  She had actually discovered a way to correct neural damage and to make synthetic organics.  She thought that her research would be used to heal people like her mother, who was suffering from Alzheimer's or to help regrow spinal cords or lost limbs.  Kerra had no idea that the military was planning on growing human beings to become the perfect soldiers.  She couldn't let her research be used in that way so she deleted all of her files and used her knowledge from all of the romance books she read to escape.<br />Her first plan of action was to find a pilot and smuggler Aden Locke seemed perfect.  She convinced him to get her off the planet and before she knew it, she was in the middle of a grand adventure.  It wasn't too long before Kerra and Aden became physically and emotionally involved, but Aden wasn't sure it was such a wise thing.  Kerra was such an innocent and didn't understand people like the scum Gandes who was trying to kill Aden and all of his friends.  Gandes had brutally raped Jannia Wise years earlier because he couldn't find her partner, Vaialora Kondi, because she was sleeping with Aden.  All of them felt guilty and knew that they must stop Gandes before he caused more suffering.  But, in the meantime, a guy's got to make a living, so he decides to take Kerra to Kethry to pick up a contract.<br />Kethry is a female-dominated planet where the women are born big and strong and the men are born small and soft.  There is a booming trade in alien men who are being kidnapped and sold into Kethrian harems, and Aden is a prime specimen.  Before he knows it, he is stuck in a cement prison who knows where with little or no chance for escape.  But he knows if he doesn't escape soon, he will become addicted to his Kethrian master's pheromones and will crave her until the day he dies.  Kerra is frantically trying to figure out what happened to Aden and is determined to get him back.  With luck, and a few friends, they manage to get out alive, but, before they get a breather, they are off on a whole new whirlwind adventure and Kerra doesn't quite know what to do.  She doesn't think that she is cut out to be a smuggler, but that is what Aden is happiest doing.  What kind of a future, if any, can they have together?<br />Into the Fire was a fast paced, adventure-filled read with plenty of romance thrown in.  Aden was a bit softer than most smugglers and seemed to listen to reason and not be as stubborn as most men, which was a nice change, but Kerra was kind of annoying in her sudden changes.  She was all helpless one minute and determined to save the world the next.  I would have liked to see a more gradual maturation in her character, but I enjoyed all of the secondary characters.  There were some really hot aliens in the story, too...  Anyway, the different alien planets contained in the book were fascinating and I really liked the author's use of Kethry and their unique strengths/weaknesses to further the plot and to make this book something unique.  Well worth your time to check out!  Just remember to buy the e-book edition because it is 1/5th of the price!mined to get him back.  With luck, and a few friends, they manage to get out alive, but, before they get a breather, they are off on a whole new whirlwind adventure and Kerra doesn't quite know what to do.  She doesn't think that she is cut out to be a smuggler, but that is what Aden is happiest doing.  What kind of a future, if any, can they have together?<br />Into the Fire was a fast paced, adventure-filled read with plenty of romance thrown in.  Aden was a bit softer than most smugglers and seemed to listen to reason and not be as stubborn as most men, which was a nice change, but Kerra was kind of annoying in her sudden changes.  She was all helpless one minute and determined to save the world the next.  I would have liked to see a more gradual maturation in her character, but I enjoyed all of the secondary characters.  There were some really hot aliens in the story, too...  Anyway, the different alien planets contained in the book were fascinating and I really liked the author's use of Kethry and their unique strengths/weaknesses to further the plot and to make this book something unique.  Well worth your time to check out!  Just remember to buy the e-book edition because it is 1/5th of the price!	2003-07-16
US	46905518	R2DU7VBDOSSQXH	0505523752	574473600	Dark Gold (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 3)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	What Would Happen If She Surrendered...?	Alexandria Houton desperately needed the job that Thomas Ivan could give her.  She was an excellent computer programmer and knew that she could design Ivan's games so that they were better than ever before.  But, before she could close the deal in the restaurant, she heard a voice calling to her.  She didn't want to follow it, but, when she saw the creature holding her beloved little brother captive, she knew that she had no choice.  The vampire chained her in a cave where she could not escape, too weak with blood loss and the poison now flowing through her system from the vampire's tainted blood to even try to get free.  When the vampire rose the next evening, she prepared to face her death, but found an avenging angel who came to save her...<br />Aidan Savage had volunteered to leave his beloved Carpathian mountains to hunt the vampires in San Francisco and its surrounding area.  He had lived for so long without a life mate that he didn't believe his eyes when he started to see color and feel emotion in Alexandria's presence.  He knew that Alexandria was afraid of him, but could never let her go.  Aidan tried to ease Alexandria into her life as a Carpathian, but she defied him at every turn - demanding that they drop her brother off at school even though the sun was exquisitely painful, going out on a date with Thomas Ivan and continuing to work with him, refusing to take his blood until forced, in short, doing everything in her power to deny what she had become.  How long would Aidan be able to be patient with his beloved Alexandria before she would finally accept who and what she truly was?<br />I really liked Aidan's character and thought that he made a nice change from Ms. Feehan's other heroes.  For one thing, Aidan is blonde, where all the other Carpathians are dark, and he seems to have keep more light in his soul than the other men in the Dark series.  He is very playful and patient with Alexandria.  Aidan also has a human family who have cared for him for generations, a son or daughter always choosing to stay on and to take care of his house and other affairs while he is resting during the day.  The only problem was that Aidan was such a strong personality that all of the other characters seemed to pale in comparison.  I would have liked Alexandria to be a richer character, less superficial, but I did like her.  This was a great addition to the Dark series and I enjoyed the new setting as well as the new kind of hero.  Keep up the great work Ms. Feehan!generations, a son or daughter always choosing to stay on and to take care of his house and other affairs while he is resting during the day.  The only problem was that Aidan was such a strong personality that all of the other characters seemed to pale in comparison.  I would have liked Alexandria to be a richer character, less superficial, but I did like her.  This was a great addition to the Dark series and I enjoyed the new setting as well as the new kind of hero.  Keep up the great work Ms. Feehan!	2003-07-16
US	46905518	R1822YZZ7WY1U7	0759905347	704499596	Moonfire	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good Sci Fi Romance!	Alex Mariltar, third son of the High Lord of Mariltar, was ready to live his dream.  Long ago, the clans had all traded and lived in peace in the Crestar System, but jealousy, greed and war drove the great families apart.  Alex has been made ambassador of Treaine, a beautiful planet with a new colony that will become the example of the peaceful harmony that the Crestar System will be able to enjoy once again - if Alex can get all of the other races to get along, that is.  The one snag in his plan is that he must marry a woman of a race not his own.  Alex did not care for any of the Coalition's choices and didn't really want to get married soon.  Still, he couldn't help but remember the beautiful woman he had helped a few months ago.  Too bad that he never got the chance to learn who she was...<br />Joanna Chase was an Earthwoman serving as an negotiator on a space ship near Treaine.  She was in the middle of some very touchy negotiations when the handsome hunk she had run into before kidnapped her and said that he was going to marry her!  She refused, of course, but she couldn't get anyone to listen to her and get her out of this mess.  All they kept talking about was the Match Key and how the computer had said that Alex and Joanna would be a good match.  Hah!  What the heck did a computer know?<br />Joanna understood the sensitive situation that Alex was in on Treaine, but she knew that she just didn't have what it took to be an ambassador's wife.  She resisted Alex at every opportunity, but, when Alex finally coaxed her into sharing his bed, sparks really flew.  Joanna was falling in love with Alex, but she was still determined to escape the colony and go somewhere far away where he would never find her.  She was convinced that Alex would find someone better suited to his new position than she.  But she had no idea that she was being watched by a secret society with magic powers who were intent on resurrecting old grievances and setting the clans at war against each other as in the past.  Joanna was an integral part of their plan because every fool could see how much the new ambassador cared for his wife - every fool except Joanna...<br />Moonfire was a good science fiction/romance novel and I enjoyed it, but it wasn't anything spectacular.  It is a character driven book and so much of the story is focused on the two main characters and the other people around them, but they lived in a fascinating world with many different kinds of peoples that was interesting to learn about.  I did feel that the author introduced some aspects of the story to give it a more fantastic feel that detracted rather than added to the story, though, as she kept throwing weird things in at the end to move the story along that just didn't fit.  I also was a bit frustrated at the two main characters.  They had the same argument over and over in the book and every time they came to an understanding the same thing would happen again and then they wouldn't know how to fix it.  I would have liked to have seen some more depth and maturation in them as the book went on instead of them staying static and then suddenly changing at the end.  Still, it was a good book and I enjoyed reading it and Alex was a really hot hero.  Recommended for fans of science fiction with a lot of romance thrown in.each other as in the past.  Joanna was an integral part of their plan because every fool could see how much the new ambassador cared for his wife - every fool except Joanna...<br />Moonfire was a good science fiction/romance novel and I enjoyed it, but it wasn't anything spectacular.  It is a character driven book and so much of the story is focused on the two main characters and the other people around them, but they lived in a fascinating world with many different kinds of peoples that was interesting to learn about.  I did feel that the author introduced some aspects of the story to give it a more fantastic feel that detracted rather than added to the story, though, as she kept throwing weird things in at the end to move the story along that just didn't fit.  I also was a bit frustrated at the two main characters.  They had the same argument over and over in the book and every time they came to an understanding the same thing would happen again and then they wouldn't know how to fix it.  I would have liked to have seen some more depth and maturation in them as the book went on instead of them staying static and then suddenly changing at the end.  Still, it was a good book and I enjoyed reading it and Alex was a really hot hero.  Recommended for fans of science fiction with a lot of romance thrown in.	2003-07-16
US	46905518	R1DXDHDLASPOFB	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the Best in the Dark Series!	Jaxon Montgomery kept herself isolated from all others, being careful not to make friends or spend too much time with anyone else.  She was trained as a Navy SEAL and is now a police officer, confident in her abilities and well able to protect herself - except from her stepfather.  When Jaxx told others that her stepfather had murdered her Navy SEAL father to marry her mother, she was laughed at and no one believed her.  But then they found the brutally slaughtered bodies of Jaxx's younger brother and fragile mother and a few started to believe.  When her stepfather returned to kill the family who adopted her, the family of another Navy SEAL, Jaxx refused to endanger anyone else and kept to herself.  She feared that anyone else that she showed affection to would be murdered, but she didn't want to be alone...<br />Lucian was the most powerful of the Carpathians - and the most ancient.  For thousands of years he has walked the earth, hunting vampires and protecting the innocent.  He even pretended to be a vampire for hundreds of years so that his twin, Gabriel (Dark Legend), would hunt him and not turn vampire.  The only thing that kept him from meeting the dawn was the thought that his life mate was out there somewhere, waiting for him...<br />Jaxx was not at all what Lucian had envisioned in his life mate.  Carpathian women are tall, slender with raven hair and jewel bright eyes, Jaxx is short with short blonde hair and a spunky attitude.  Sparks definitely fly when Lucian carries Jaxx off to the safety of his mansion, telling all of her acquaintances that he is her fiance.  Jaxx fears Lucian, but, deep in her heart, she knows that she can trust him.  However, she also knows that her stepfather will start hunting Lucian if he doesn't let her go soon and she cannot bear to have another person killed on her account.  She tries her best to protect Lucian, but he doesn't seem to understand the danger.  Lucian is not sure what to make of Jaxx.  He is the most powerful of his kind and it is almost laughable that this little human thinks she can protect him from anything.  Both sides will have to adjust their thinking as they fall deeper and deeper in love and Jaxx comes to terms with being a Carpathian life mate!<br />I loved Lucian as a character.  We last saw him in Dark Legend where he tried to end his life rather than face an eternity alone, but he was persuaded to live because his life mate was out there and needed him.  And if anyone needed a dark hero more, it is Jaxx Montgomery.  I thought Jaxx was a great heroine and very different from all of Ms. Feehan's other heroines.  When Jaxx said that she wanted to help Lucian hunt the bad guys, she meant it - and she had the skills to back it up, unlike most of the other females.  Jaxx was tough, but she wasn't bitter and she was still very feminine.  This is just a beautiful love story - you are all in for a treat!f his kind and it is almost laughable that this little human thinks she can protect him from anything.  Both sides will have to adjust their thinking as they fall deeper and deeper in love and Jaxx comes to terms with being a Carpathian life mate!<br />I loved Lucian as a character.  We last saw him in Dark Legend where he tried to end his life rather than face an eternity alone, but he was persuaded to live because his life mate was out there and needed him.  And if anyone needed a dark hero more, it is Jaxx Montgomery.  I thought Jaxx was a great heroine and very different from all of Ms. Feehan's other heroines.  When Jaxx said that she wanted to help Lucian hunt the bad guys, she meant it - and she had the skills to back it up, unlike most of the other females.  Jaxx was tough, but she wasn't bitter and she was still very feminine.  This is just a beautiful love story - you are all in for a treat!	2003-07-16
US	46905518	RY3GY3NCYPIA4	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	One of the Best in the Dark Series!	Gabriel has been hunting his twin brother, Lucien, for hundreds of years.  He never dreamed that his brother, who was the strongest of all Carpathians, could turn vampire, but he was determined to keep his promise to destroy him before he can ruin more innocent lives.  Gabriel knows that he is not Lucien's equal, but he did manage to trick him and imprison them both deep underground for over a hundred years.  But something woke him suddenly and Gabriel knew that Lucien was free.  All Gabriel felt, though, was a relentless hunger, an overwhelming desire for blood that demanded satisfaction.  Before he could find suitable prey, he heard a voice calling to him, soothing, calming, and offering him strength to control his craving.<br />Francesca Del Ponce was a healer and had dedicated her life to good and helping those less fortunate.  Unbeknownst to the humans who surrounded her, Francesca was Carpathian, one of the few females who escaped the bloodletting many years ago.  Francesca had separated herself from all other Carpathians and resigned herself to living alone.  She knew that she had a life mate out there because she had seen him, but he had turned away from her without saying a word.  That man was Gabriel.<br />Gabriel had no idea that he had caused so much anguish to his lifemate and he was horrified when he found out the truth.  Still, he could not be denied and claimed Francesca as his own.  For the first time in centuries he could see colors and feel emotions - feel fear...  Because he knew that by binding Francesca to him, he had made her a target for his twin, Lucien, who was always watching, waiting for the moment to strike...<br />I simply loved this book.  It is a wonderful addition to the Dark series and I think that Christine Feehan keeps getting better with each book she writes in the series.  Gabriel was a very strong Carpathian male, but so sweet and tender with Francesca and he had many soft spots that made him endearing.  Francesca was a very untypical Carpathian female and had discovered many wonders and accomplished much in her medical research and study over the years.  She is no wilting violet, but she doesn't defy Gabriel over every little thing either, which was a refreshing change.  The characters were great, the love scenes were hot and Gabriel and Francesca are simply perfect for each other!  If you haven't read any of the Dark Series you are seriously missing out and, if you have, this is definitely a book that you will want to own - it's a keeper!typical Carpathian female and had discovered many wonders and accomplished much in her medical research and study over the years.  She is no wilting violet, but she doesn't defy Gabriel over every little thing either, which was a refreshing change.  The characters were great, the love scenes were hot and Gabriel and Francesca are simply perfect for each other!  If you haven't read any of the Dark Series you are seriously missing out and, if you have, this is definitely a book that you will want to own - it's a keeper!	2003-07-10
US	46905518	R209FUD3HDQGIC	0505521407	441544406	Desperado's Gold	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It Was the Absolute Worst Day of Her Life!	Catalina Lane had just been jilted, almost left at the alter!  It is true that there was no real physical attraction between her fiance, Wilson Ross, and herself, but they were good friends and had agreed that that was a good basis for marriage.  Until that spineless coward told her he couldn't marry her just as she was about to walk up the aisle!  She couldn't even yell at him because he had tears in his eyes!  Furious and humiliated, Catalina swept out of the church and into her Mustang convertible without looking back.  Several hours later, she was broken down on a little two-lane Arizona highway in the middle of nowhere.  Resigned, Catalina picks up her satin and lace wedding skirts and starts hiking in her ridiculously high heels.  Luckily, there is a gas station a few miles down the road and she is able to get assistance.<br />On her way to freshen up in the restroom, she meets a strange old Indian man who gives her some cryptic advice and a strange crystal.  Catalina shrugs off the weirdness and decides to go for a walk while she waits for her car to be towed.  She is strangely drawn towards some red rocks in the distance, but, before she can reach them, she is caught in a small whirlwind.  When she can see again, she notices that the gas station is gone and she is all alone.  Catalina is unsure what to do so she decides to sit and wait a while.  A short time later, she spots a lone cowboy heading her way and tries to get him to take her to the gas station.  He seems to have no idea what she is talking about and quickly decides that Catalina must be crazy, beautiful or no.  Still, Kid Creede decides that he cannot leave her out in the middle of the desert, so he takes her to the nearest town, since he is on his way there anyway.<br />By the time they arrive in the small mining town of Braxton, Catalina is sure that she must be in the middle of a movie set.  After all, why else would everyone be dressed in such authentic costumes and wandering around what just had to be a movie set like its 1896?  Deciding to play along, Catalina asks Kid to help her get work and he immediately takes her to the local saloon/brothel, where the madame there is all too happy to take Catalina off his hands.  Catalina is excited to have a bit part at first, but she soon comes to realize that there is something not quite right here...  Thinking there must have been a mistake, Catalina tells the madame that she cannot have sex with these men, she's still a virgin and has no idea what she is doing!  The next thing she knows, Catalina is chained to a wall while men bid to take her innocence from her!  Catalina is relieved when Kid bids for her and wins, knowing she is safe in his presence.  However, as Catalina realizes that her whole adventure is not a dream or a movie, she remembers that Kid Creede died in a gunfight, his body riddled with a dozen bullets - in the town of Braxton!  Scared for his life, she tries to persuade Kid to leave town - and to take her with him, of course.  Kid wishes that Catalina would stop telling him fairy tales, after all he has seen and done, does she really think that he will think less of her?  While Kid tries to ignore his growing attraction to Catalina, she plots to save his life and falls head over heels in love...<br />This was a great time travel romance.  Catalina was a very adaptable heroine, strong, but not abrasive and she had a few of her own moves to protect herself from strange men.  Kid Creede is a great gunslinger - he has his own code of honor and is very vulnerable underneath all of layers of black, I can definitely see why Catalina fell in love with such a sexy man!  The secondary characters were well developed and believable and the author had some great villains in the story, too.  The book is well written and an enjoyable read, I just wish there had been a little more development of the romance between Catalina and Kid.  Still, well worth checking out!had to be a movie set like its 1896?  Deciding to play along, Catalina asks Kid to help her get work and he immediately takes her to the local saloon/brothel, where the madame there is all too happy to take Catalina off his hands.  Catalina is excited to have a bit part at first, but she soon comes to realize that there is something not quite right here...  Thinking there must have been a mistake, Catalina tells the madame that she cannot have sex with these men, she's still a virgin and has no idea what she is doing!  The next thing she knows, Catalina is chained to a wall while men bid to take her innocence from her!  Catalina is relieved when Kid bids for her and wins, knowing she is safe in his presence.  However, as Catalina realizes that her whole adventure is not a dream or a movie, she remembers that Kid Creede died in a gunfight, his body riddled with a dozen bullets - in the town of Braxton!  Scared for his life, she tries to persuade Kid to leave town - and to take her with him, of course.  Kid wishes that Catalina would stop telling him fairy tales, after all he has seen and done, does she really think that he will think less of her?  While Kid tries to ignore his growing attraction to Catalina, she plots to save his life and falls head over heels in love...<br />This was a great time travel romance.  Catalina was a very adaptable heroine, strong, but not abrasive and she had a few of her own moves to protect herself from strange men.  Kid Creede is a great gunslinger - he has his own code of honor and is very vulnerable underneath all of layers of black, I can definitely see why Catalina fell in love with such a sexy man!  The secondary characters were well developed and believable and the author had some great villains in the story, too.  The book is well written and an enjoyable read, I just wish there had been a little more development of the romance between Catalina and Kid.  Still, well worth checking out!	2003-07-10
US	46905518	RQ2OTXN03UOOX	1587152681	414064145	Memory and Desire	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Entertaining Romantic Mystery	Claire Godwin has always been a paler shadow of her vivacious, larger-than-life foster sister, Melinda Varek.  Melinda is always the one who comes up with some madcap plan and Claire inevitably follows, just as she has this time.  Melinda has been missing for over a year.  She just suddenly disappeared after performing in a play about Elizabeth Spenser, a beautiful young woman who was hanged for being a witch in the 17th century.  Everyone has tried to persuade Claire that Melinda just got tired of mending old tapestries in Sommerstowe and decided to travel somewhere else, but Claire knows there is something terribly wrong.  She finally finishes out the school year, closes up the library, and takes the job of repairing embroidery at Sommerstowe Hall, a large mansion owned by the National Trust that is being restored to function as a museum.<br />Claire immediately contacts the police who investigated Melinda's disappearance when she arrives in England, but Inspector Blake informs her that without a body, there is nothing more they can do.  When Claire arrives in Sommerstowe and unpacks in the little room she is renting - the very same one Melinda stayed in when she was there - she finds a threatening note stuffed under the carpet and suddenly the investigation is open again.  Alec Wood, the Summerstowe police force, takes Claire's fears seriously, but there is little he can do after he has the note tested for fingerprints, etc.  Or is there?  For, once Claire has all of Sommerstowe riled up about Melinda's disappearance, Alec uses a map and a type of divining rod to discover that Melinda is in the rose garden at Sommerstowe.  Surprisingly, Alec is right and they have found what remains of Melinda - but who killed her?<br />Richard Lacey, the handsome conservation architect who is in charge of restoring the hall, had a fight with Melinda the night that she died and everyone knows that there was something going on between them, don't they?  After all, the body was buried on Richard's beloved estate in the rose gardens he helped dig.  But then, why was he being blackmailed?  And if Melinda was the blackmailer, why did the notes continue after she died?  Claire desperately wants to believe that Richard is innocent because there is a strong attraction to them, but who else could have killed Melinda?  Turns out there are plenty of suspects in the seemingly peaceful English town: Alec Wood, the helpful policeman, had a date to meet Melinda in the garden at midnight, and he is a practicing wiccan; Elliot Moncrief, the play's volatile director had ample time and opportunity and he and Melinda used to play around together; Diana &amp; Rob Jackman, the owners of the popular pub, The Druid's Circle, seemed to hate Melinda and she was always working in their bar so maybe they saw something they didn't like in Melinda's developing book...?  The players are all assembled and, as the real play finishes its yearly run again, Claire is certain that the killer will strike again...but who and where?<br />This was a thrilling romantic suspense novel with a touch of the paranormal added to make it even better.  The mystery was very well developed and Carl really keeps the reader guessing with all of her characters.  Every time you turn around there is another motive that pops up into place, all seemingly innocent events that, when looked at in another light, are quite sinister.  This was the best part of the book because everything was so suspenseful as anyone could have done it and many people didn't like Melinda, though for very different reasons.  I also thought that Carl did a great job in making many smaller mysteries to surround the big mystery of who killed Melinda, this kept the plot moving forward and the reader guessing.  I enjoyed getting to know all of the characters and Claire's developing confidence in herself and her hunches was very convincing also.  The setting was fun, the details surrounding the plot were solid and well developed, the romance moved slowly, but seemed better that way - a great novel!ed, the romance moved slowly, but seemed better that way - a great novel!	2003-07-02
US	46905518	R2950E7OC5U6RT	1928670059	777658675	The Hardest Step	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Rather Tepid Contemporary Romance	Marti Lundstrum was badly injured in a car accident that killed both of her parents.  Life as she knew it is over, but she is determined to start a new life for herself.  After extensive therapy, Marti is able to walk with a cane and to work at the managed care facility where she lives.  The facility runs an answering service and she answers the phones at night, takes messages, makes wake up calls, does light filing, etc.  Marti is happy where she is, but she knows that there are many others waiting to take her place at the facility and that it is time to move on - no matter how scary that prospect is.<br />Burke Hildebrand has been on the move for most of his adult life.  He is a construction manager and moves from job to job to finish projects.  Burke's last job was in Australia and he is happy to move to Florida to take on a challenging new job building a new type of office park including offices, conference rooms, and industrial space.  The only person he knows is the beautiful, alto voice on the end of his phone line whom he knows as Marti-with-an-i.  He is determined to get to know her better, but Marti is pretty skittish and doesn't think she is ready for a relationship.<br />However, things change when Marti begins to prepare to leave the managed care facility.  No one wants to give her a job because she walks with a cane and it is hard to find an apartment with easy access for her.  Burke keeps trying to persuade her to work with him at the Tanglewood Office Complex, where he has been desperately looking for an office manager.  Finally, Marti allows Burke to hire her and she finds she loves her challenging new job.  Housing and transportation are still a problem, however and Marti isn't sure she can continue working there.  Burke has the perfect solution when he suggests Marti move into his huge new Spanish-style villa so they can drive to and from work together.  Marti is hesitant at first, but she is so comfortable with Burke that she goes along with the plan.  Burke tries to be a gentleman and give Marti her space, but she doesn't seem to understand how much he loves her - her cane doesn't matter to him!  Marti loves Burke, too, but all she can think of are the problems her physical handicaps would cause, can she have a baby or sex with Burke?  Marti fears that she cannot give Burke what he needs so she continues to push him away.  Will Burke ever be able to convince Marti that she is everything he ever wanted?<br />I was excited to read the story at first because it had such an unusual premise and I really liked the characters.  Bierce did a lovely job with her characterization and I really grew to like Marti and to admire her strengths and Burke for wanting to be with her, despite what society may say.  I was disappointed with the lack of romantic development between the two as things stayed pretty much the same from start to finish.  It was like the plot just kept going along without anything really happening.  Still, the book is well written and I can tell that the author has potential, maybe I will give her another chance on something else she has written...e plan.  Burke tries to be a gentleman and give Marti her space, but she doesn't seem to understand how much he loves her - her cane doesn't matter to him!  Marti loves Burke, too, but all she can think of are the problems her physical handicaps would cause, can she have a baby or sex with Burke?  Marti fears that she cannot give Burke what he needs so she continues to push him away.  Will Burke ever be able to convince Marti that she is everything he ever wanted?<br />I was excited to read the story at first because it had such an unusual premise and I really liked the characters.  Bierce did a lovely job with her characterization and I really grew to like Marti and to admire her strengths and Burke for wanting to be with her, despite what society may say.  I was disappointed with the lack of romantic development between the two as things stayed pretty much the same from start to finish.  It was like the plot just kept going along without anything really happening.  Still, the book is well written and I can tell that the author has potential, maybe I will give her another chance on something else she has written...	2003-07-02
US	46905518	R3STP2CODN9OW2	1585860972	226389510	Fierce Eden	Books	4	27	29	N	N	The Frigid Frenchwoman & the Hot Half-Breed!	Elise Laffont is only 25 years old, yet she is already a widow - and perfectly happy to be one!  All of the bachelors around Fort Rosalie, and there are many as it is a military post, are positive that she cannot make her small holding in Louisiana Territory profitable without a man by her side.  Yet Elise has nothing but disgust for men, her brutal husband having done nothing but hurt her, mock her and cause her trouble.  Elise was proud of her small farm and had made a modest success, but she lost it all one morning when the Natchez attached Fort Rosalie and the outlying areas, killing or enslaving all of the French.  Elise managed to escape into the forest and find a small group of survivors, but they knew they could not make it out of Natchez territory without being caught.  When Reynaud Chavalier, a half-French, half-Natchez warrior, finds them, he offers to take them to Fort Natchitoches - if Elise will warm his bed at night.  Nothing could be worse for Elise, yet the other French insist that they will not survive without him and Elise is forced to comply.<br />Elise is determined to think Reynaud no better than her brute of a husband, yet when Reynaud sees the fear and panic in her eyes when he reaches for her that night, he is determined to make her want him as a woman.  He insists that Elise touch him and pleasure herself.  Elise uses these opportunities to tease Reynaud, but she slowly comes to trust him and to believe that all men are not like her dead husband.  When they come to Reynaud's plantation, she is content to stay there, making love to Reynaud and living in a kind of paradise, untouched by the outside.  However, this time of peace cannot last, for the French are coming to kill the Natchez for their uprising.<br />When members of the Natchez tribe come to ask Reynaud, known as Hawk of the Night to them, to become the new war chief, Reynaud feels that he has a duty to his people to go, even though he fears that they will lose.  At first Reynaud was going to let Elise continue on to the fort, but he finds that he cannot let her go.  Elise does not go willingly, but has no chance to make a successful escape with all of the warriors watching her every move.  She determines to make the best of it in the Natchez camp and befriends some of the Natchez women and offers what comfort she can to the French captives there.  As Elise spends more time among the Natchez, she comes to see them for the people that they are - just like the French, full of strengths and weaknesses, cultural customs and taboos.  She knows that she is in love with Reynaud, but what kind of future do they have with the French attacking the tribe from all sides?<br />This was a very enjoyable romance that also had quite a bit of historical background to it (some of it fictionalized, of course).  I liked Elise as a character, she was afraid, yet determined to be courageous and not afraid to change or to adapt to new situations.  Reynaud was a gorgeous hero, tormented by not belonging to either people whose blood pulsed through his veins and not sure whose side he was really on.  The supporting characters were also quite well developed and fun to get to know: Little Quail, the Natchez woman who befriended Elise and taught her the Natchez way of life, Pierre Broussard, Reynaud's trader friend who fell in love with Little Quail when he was a little boy, the Great Sun, Reynaud's twin brother who ruled the Natchez like a god, Tattooed Arm, Reynaud's mother who fell in love with a French man and bore him two sons, and many, many more.  This is a tale full of love and tragedy and the relationships between the characters were very strong.  Jennifer Blake really made the time period come alive and the pages just flew by.  My only complaint is that Elise's feelings seemed to switch rather abruptly and Elise and Reynaud seemed to have the same doubts and arguments throughout the book without ever really finding any solutions or reconciling.  Still, I think that most readers who are fans of historical romance will enjoy this book.that most readers who are fans of historical romance will enjoy this book.	2003-07-02
US	46905518	R1NN3L2SUK3RE6	0345340396	381425797	Red Planet (A Del Rey book)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fast Paced, Fun Read!	Jim Marlowe barely remembers leaving Earth with his family many years ago.  He considers himself a Martian Colonist and loves his life on Mars.  He is not looking forward to going to school on Syrtis Minor, but he knows that he is of the age where he has to go.  The only thing that he insists on is that his pet/friend, Willis, a &quot;bouncer&quot; or Martian animal that is round, furry and sticks out appendages when he wants to see or move around, come with him.  His parents are forced to admit that there is nothing in the school rules that say he cannot take Willis, so Jim wins out.<br />On his way to school with his friend, Frank, they stop off at Cynia Station to wait for the ice to harden.  Bored, the two boys decide to go and see the Martian city that lies just outside of the station.  They are pleasantly surprised to meet and speak with some Martians, as they usually ignore the human colonists.  There Jim makes friends with Gekko, a Martian, but insists that Willis must come with him when Gekko tries to persuade Jim to leave him there.  Jim has cause to regret his insistence that Willis accompany him when their new headmaster, Marquis Howe, arrives to take over the school.  It is instant hate between Jim and Howe, who infuriates Jim by confiscating Willis and caging him up in his office.  Then Jim finds out that Howe is trying to sell him to the London Zoo!  Jim persuades Frank to help him rescue Willis and Willis plays back a conversation between Howe and the General where the two boys learn that the Company (the Earth conglomerate who owns the colony) is determined to save money by making the colonists stay on one half of the planet where they will live in bitter cold, -100 below freezing, for one Earth year and then have a normal year, etc.  Jim and Frank are determined not to let this happen.  They carefully plan their escape and they are off to save their families!  What Jim doesn't realize is that he and Willis will do much more than save his own little colony - the fate of all humankind on Mars rests on him and his little round friend...<br />This book was originally published in the '60s and we obviously have more information Mars since then, but Heinlein's speculation on what Mars may be like does not detract from the story at all - in fact, it is rather fun to read about what he thought Mars would be like.  Heinlein's characters are engaging, if a little flat.  I do not feel that he took very much time to develop any of the characters so they would become fully fleshed out, but the plot is very fast paced and full of action.  This is a great book for children who are in 4-8th grade and their parents/older siblings will enjoy it, too.  Many readers will feel that it is a kind of science fiction Harry Potter book and I think that the young readers will really enjoy it.colony - the fate of all humankind on Mars rests on him and his little round friend...<br />This book was originally published in the '60s and we obviously have more information Mars since then, but Heinlein's speculation on what Mars may be like does not detract from the story at all - in fact, it is rather fun to read about what he thought Mars would be like.  Heinlein's characters are engaging, if a little flat.  I do not feel that he took very much time to develop any of the characters so they would become fully fleshed out, but the plot is very fast paced and full of action.  This is a great book for children who are in 4-8th grade and their parents/older siblings will enjoy it, too.  Many readers will feel that it is a kind of science fiction Harry Potter book and I think that the young readers will really enjoy it.	2003-07-02
US	46905518	R2FWBR943GDH8O	0345320344	961197696	Tarnsman of Gor (The Chronicles of Counter-Earth, Vol. 1)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not Bad, Just Not Great	Tarl Cabot is an Englishman who has recently moved to America to teach British History at a small US University.  When he goes camping one weekend, he has no idea that his adventure is going to be more than he could ever imagine.  It all starts with an unusual envelope that magically appears at Tarl's campfire.  When Tarl opens it, he finds a letter from his father, whom he never knew, asking him to bring a handful of earth with him when he comes.  Tarl is not sure what is going on, but he knows that he wants no part of it.  He tries to run away, but soon finds himself back at his campsite where he started.  Resigned to the inevitable, he boards the ship that comes for him and awakens on a hard table in some kind of tower.<br />His father tells him tha he is on Gor, a counter-Earth that is ruled by the mysterious Priest-Kings who bring Earthlings to their planet from time to time.  Tarl is quickly thrown into training to become a tarnsman, one of the world's warriors who ride the tarns - great winged birds who can be deadly to anyone, even their own riders.  After several weeks of intense training, his father informs him that his mission is to travel to the city of Ar, the enemy of his father's city, and steal the home stone, or symbol of the city so that the citizens of Ar will overthrown Marlenus, the ruler of Ar.  Tarl manages to do so, though in an unusual way and accidentally kidnaps one of Marlenus' daughters, Talena, who is a real shrew.  Tarl manages to lose his tarn and all he has is his wits and Talena, who won't leave him.  It is here that Tarl's adventure really begins as he is forced to fight his fellow men, find a way to rescue Talena, recapture his tarn who has gone feral, try to keep Marlenus from killing him, and keep the deaths down to as small a number as possible...<br />As a rule, I usually enjoy books where someone from earth is transported to an alternate dimension where they are called upon to accomplish some great feat or quest, but this one seemed pretty lackluster to me.  I know that it is important for the reader to have some background into Gor, but I felt that that author threw it all at the reader in the first couple of chapters and then the action started.  I also found the idea that women are happiest when they are slaves to a strong man to be really distasteful and cannot imagine a woman as proud and as strong willed as Talena buying into the philosophy either.  Still, it was an okay read, but I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend it to others.seemed pretty lackluster to me.  I know that it is important for the reader to have some background into Gor, but I felt that that author threw it all at the reader in the first couple of chapters and then the action started.  I also found the idea that women are happiest when they are slaves to a strong man to be really distasteful and cannot imagine a woman as proud and as strong willed as Talena buying into the philosophy either.  Still, it was an okay read, but I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend it to others.	2003-07-01
US	46905518	R2MUYL4XOGBHD6	0345368991	85405238	The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Wonderful Insights Into Pern's History!	The Chronicles of Pern: First Fall is actually a collection of 5 short stories that take place around the time of Dragonsdawn.  They are:<br />The Survey: P.E.R.N - This is the shortest story of the collection and it deals with the original surveyors who were mapping that part of the galaxy and recommended Pern for colonization.  The reader is offered tantalizing glimpses of a bigger story behind the tension of the survey crew, but, at only 18 pages, this story doesn't allow a lot of time for any detail.<br />The Dolphin's Bell - This story takes place concurrently with the end of Dragonsdawn, but from the perspective of the dolphins and their caretakers.  It was interesting to see the story from a different perspective and to experience what the colonists had to go through as they braved the treacherous ocean voyage to the northern continent.  The story centers around Jim Tillek (of the later Tillek Hold), his love of the sea and his growing love for a courageous young woman named Theo.<br />The Ford of Red Hanrahan - After the colonists had settled in the Northern Continent at Fort Hold, there was plenty of room for their greatly diminished numbers in the cavernous space.  However, after some time, space is getting tight and there are those who are ready to venture forth and create new holds.  One of them is Red Hanrahan, whom readers will recognize from Dragonsdawn (as a character and as Sorka's father).  He journeys quite a distance from Fort Hold and founds what will become known as the famous Ruatha Hold.  This story was quite interesting because it addressed the history of the plague that took so many lives in Moreta's time and how the colonists started fostering their children out to live with other families.<br />The Second Weyr - Sean and Sorka have done a wonderful job training all of the other dragonriders and are the best weyrleaders that any dragonrider could hope for, but Fort Weyr just doesn't have enough space for them all!  Torene, with her maturing queen, has dreams of settling a new weyr and has even found the perfect location, but is afraid to say anything to Sean.  When Sean makes the surprise announcement that the dragonriders will be expanding into not just one weyr - but three! Torene is thrilled.  She dreams of becoming new weyrwoman at one of the weyrs and waits in eager anticipation to see who will fly her queen in her first mating flight, for they will become the new leaders of the justly named Benden Weyr after their beloved leader who passed on.  I have to say that this was my favorite story of the bunch, I just love to read about the dragonriders!<br />Rescue Run - When Lieutenant Ross Benden's ship comes upon a distress signal around the Rukbat system, he cannot help but think of his uncle, who set off 50 years previously to colonize a planet there.  He cannot believe that his uncle, hero of so many battles, would have panicked and set off a signal for help, not 7 years after starting colonization.  Still, he is duty bound to explore the area and see if there are any survivors.  The biologist on board is fascinated by the organisms that seem to come from the Oort cloud circling so close to the planet.  A small team leaves the ship to take a shuttle down to Pern and are surprised to encounter a small band of survivors: Stev Kimmer (whom readers will recognize from Dragonsdawn as being one of Avril's group) and Kenjo & Ito Fusaiyuki's (whom readers will also recognize as being the pilot killed by Avril to steal the plane) children.  They insist that there are no other survivors and, though Benden does a sweep of the area, he has no other choice but to believe that his uncle is gone, killed in the Thread attack and leave with the few survivors that remain.  This story was interesting because it explains why no one else has ever gone to Pern and why that area of space is simply avoided, as I always thought that someone must come to see the colony after so many hundreds of years.<br />I am not a bigfan of short stories, as a rule, but I enjoyed this book.  The stories are typically about 60 pages, except for the first one about the exploration team, which is only about 15.  They are all well written and the characters are very interesting - almost too interesting for a short story because I wanted to know more about them!  For anyone who has enjoyed the Pern series, I think that they will love the insights this book gives them into the history of Pern and its original colonists.  Highly recommended for fans of science fiction & fantasy!ig fan of short stories, as a rule, but I enjoyed this book.  The stories are typically about 60 pages, except for the first one about the exploration team, which is only about 15.  They are all well written and the characters are very interesting - almost too interesting for a short story because I wanted to know more about them!  For anyone who has enjoyed the Pern series, I think that they will love the insights this book gives them into the history of Pern and its original colonists.  Highly recommended for fans of science fiction & fantasy!	2003-07-01
US	46905518	R1XZTWOGFID2PN	0958699836	381478272	Crystal Dreams	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Blend of Science Fiction and Historical Romance	Connal MacArren is one of the first of his world to leave the planet and travel through space.  He would never have ventured out at all if it weren't for his dratted kinsman, Garris, who left without telling anyone goodbye.  All he left was a cryptic note saying that he was going to see the Dreamweaver Liandra Tavor.  Liandra is an Asarian, one of a small race who can walk the dreamscape and find answers for people in dreams.  She is sure that this Garris never made it to see her, though it is true that he may have been traveling to see her, but she cannot persuade Connal that she knows nothing of Garris' whereabouts.  Connal quickly tires of Liandra's game of pretending not to know anything and kidnaps her to return to his home planet of Caledonia.  If Liandra will not tell Connal where Garris is, perhaps a little imprisonment might change her mind...<br />Liandra is determined to hate Caledonia.  They are so primitive there.  They eat animals and plants, pick flowers, do their own cleaning and seem to not use machines hardly at all!  How have they escaped the notice of the League for so long?  Even though she gradually comes to care for Caledonia and its people, she is determined to escape for there is something terribly wrong in the dreamscape.  Whenever she tries to search for Garris in her dreams, she feels an alien presence that is trapping other Asarians so they can never leave.  She fears for her people and wants desperately to contact her father with this information, but Connal does not want anyone else to of Caledonia's existence.  However, he finds himself softening as he spends more time with Liandra.  Maybe aliens are not as bad as he has always thought?  Still, he is positive that Liandra is nothing but a glorified prostitute who is willing to have anyone into her mind and into her bed.  With Connal determined to think the worst of Liandra and Liandra trying to escape to free her people at every opportunity, will these two ever get around to admitting their feelings for one another?<br />This book was interesting because it is basically a historical romance set in space.  Connal MacArran is a typical clan chieftain of Scotland with Liandra an outsider who finds herself falling in love with a new way of life.  I love Highland romances and so was excited to read this book and I was not disappointed.  The author deftly blends the traditional Highland setting with the idea of aliens and mind powers.  If you enjoy either Highland or Futuristic romance, give this book a shot - I think that you will like it!their feelings for one another?<br />This book was interesting because it is basically a historical romance set in space.  Connal MacArran is a typical clan chieftain of Scotland with Liandra an outsider who finds herself falling in love with a new way of life.  I love Highland romances and so was excited to read this book and I was not disappointed.  The author deftly blends the traditional Highland setting with the idea of aliens and mind powers.  If you enjoy either Highland or Futuristic romance, give this book a shot - I think that you will like it!	2003-07-01
US	46905518	R1HT0FBMIXA72O	1553165594	305014339	Gabriel's Ghost	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Love, Love, Love, Love This Book!	Chasidah \\"Chaz\\" Bergren was on her way up the ladder of the Federated Fleet.  She was captain of her own ship and well respected by those under her command as well as her superiors.  Or so she thought.  When Chaz was accused of ignoring orders which led to the deaths of fourteen of her crew, she couldn't believe it.  She was stunned during her trial when her friends deserted her and data was created to convict her.  Condemned to spend the rest of her life on the prison planet, Moabar, Chaz has her hands full just trying to stay alive.  When Gabriel \\"Sully\\" Sullivan shows up to rescue her, Chaz is stunned.  He supposedly died two years ago.  And why did he want to rescue her, anyway?  It is true that both of them enjoyed sparring verbally and there was an undeniable physical attraction, but they had always been on opposite sides of the fence: she a Fleet captain, he a smuggler out stealing whatever he could whenever he could.  Still, going anywhere with Sully had to be better than staying on Moabar.<br />Chaz reluctantly agrees to help Sully track down an illegal jukor lab on Marker, her home planet where her older brother still runs the shipping yards.  She doesn't quite believe Sully when he insists that the Federation is breeding jukors there.  After all, the Federation had cancelled the jukor project years ago, hadn't they?  Who would be stupid enough to keep created animals that could not be controlled and were extremely difficult to kill?<br />It soon becomes obvious to Chaz that Sully is right - there is a jukor lab on Marker and another lab is being built on a space ship somewhere.  Gradually Sully wins Chaz' trust and they are close to becoming involved when Chaz discovers that Sully is a powerful empath/telepath and can change people's thoughts, read minds and kill with the power of his mind alone.  The whole Federation has been educated to hate and fear the Solorths because they have this power, but Chaz never expected to encounter a human who wields power like a Stolorth.  How can Chaz trust Sully when he swears that he has not tricked her into going along with his plans?  He has already altered a memory and invaded her mind when he wanted to gain information about her ex-husband.  However, Chaz soon realizes that Sully hates and fears what he is, too.  He fears that he will never gain acceptance from anyone, especially Chaz, whom he has loved for years and years.  Little by little, Sully opens up to Chaz and tries to show her that he is not the monster that the universe thinks he is and little by little Chaz comes to believe him, but how much of the truth can Chaz take?  How much is love willing to overlook and accept?  As Sully and Chaz try to sort out their feelings and fears, they realize that the jukor conspiracy reaches up much higher than they hoped - all the way to the leaders of the Federation itself...<br />This is the first book that I have read by Megan Sybil Baker and she is now up there at the top with my other favorite authors.  This book was simply amazing.  It had a very engrossing plotline with a lot of details about the technologically advanced futuristic world that Sully and Chaz live in.  Religion, politics, military, you name it, it was discussed and figured into the plot.  The world was very real and I loved Baker's characters.  Sully was a gorgeous, tortured, dark hero who desperately needed someone to love him despite who and what he was.  Chaz was a strong female character, but not obnoxious and not too independent to want to have friends and a special someone she could lean on.  The supporting characters included people from all races and types including Ren, a blind Stolorth who was forced to hide from his people or he would be killed; the giant, hairy takas, who were raping and killing human women in retaliation for the federation experimenting on their women; Philip, Chaz' ex-husband, who still loves her and yet cannot change his rigid Fleet training to win her back; Sister Berri, a very devout, almost insane priestess who believes she is on a holy quest, and many, many more.  The romance between Sully and Chaz was a wonderful subplot and handled so well by Baker, I was truly impressed.  A simply wonderful book that is well worth any price that you pay for it!  Buy this and pray that Ms. Baker is writing a sequel - I know you will love it!a very devout, almost insane priestess who believes she is on a holy quest, and many, many more.  The romance between Sully and Chaz was a wonderful subplot and handled so well by Baker, I was truly impressed.  A simply wonderful book that is well worth any price that you pay for it!  Buy this and pray that Ms. Baker is writing a sequel - I know you will love it!	2003-06-25
US	46905518	R1VCTBN4ZWGWSB	0345424301	463315103	Nameless Magery (Del Rey Discovery)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Intriguingly Different Fantasy Novel	Lisane crashlands her spaceship on an unfamiliar planet when she is forced to flee for her life from the Enforcers on her home planet.  She was the princess of her old world and destined to rule her people for the rest of her natural life, but all that is gone now.  Lisane is not sure what to make of the new world and is slowly starving to death when Simon finds her.  Simon is a wizard and a teacher at a school where other wizards are trained.  He is unaware that Lisane is a girl and takes her to the school, where all the other students are boys.  Lisane doesn't exactly fit in on this new planet, but she refuses to let the others get her down, especially the sadistic Detter, who looks like an angel, but must surely be a demon in disguise.  When her education is complete, she leaves the school with Simon and Detter to journey across the land to face the Beast and win her magebands.  The lands through which they pass are varied and some like wizards and others hate them.  Along the way, Lisane has the opportunity to grow up and realize that this world is no less complex than her old world.  As she struggles to find a place for herself and to figure out her feelings for Kaihan, the acknowledged head of the wizarding world, she discovers that her unique way of looking at magic, or ller, may be all that can save her newly adopted planet from the Enforcers, who are heading down to destroy them all...<br />I enjoyed the story and thought that Delia Marshall Turner was very creative in her treatment of magic and the different planets.  This book is a unique blend of science fiction and fantasy that actually worked really well.  I felt that the beginning of the book was a bit slow and then it was a huge rush at the end, but the storyline itself was good.  This book is well written and Turner's descriptions are quite clear, although sometimes a little dry.  However, the reason why I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 is that I really hated Lisane.  I know that it is good to have a strong female character in a book, but I just couldn't relate with Lisane and found myself really disliking her at times.  I hated Detter, of course, but Turner portrays him in a way that you have to hate him.  I was also disappointed at the lack of interaction between Kaihan and Lisane.  It was like Turner was building up to the moment when the romantic tension between them would come to a head and then it is over in one page!  What is up with that?  I would definitely have liked to read more about Kaihan and how he fits into the world there, but he was left a shadow figure in the background.  Very disappointing.  I think that the book is appropriate for mature teens and adults, but I would be careful about recommending it to all young adults (even though it is considered a young adult book) because the book deals with quite a bit of sex, including homosexuality, S & M, etc. and is not for all readers.  Also, bear in mind that this book is rather hard to get into at first, it took me weeks to get through it, and that is very unusual for me.  A good book, but not necessarily likeable, if you know what I mean.have a strong female character in a book, but I just couldn't relate with Lisane and found myself really disliking her at times.  I hated Detter, of course, but Turner portrays him in a way that you have to hate him.  I was also disappointed at the lack of interaction between Kaihan and Lisane.  It was like Turner was building up to the moment when the romantic tension between them would come to a head and then it is over in one page!  What is up with that?  I would definitely have liked to read more about Kaihan and how he fits into the world there, but he was left a shadow figure in the background.  Very disappointing.  I think that the book is appropriate for mature teens and adults, but I would be careful about recommending it to all young adults (even though it is considered a young adult book) because the book deals with quite a bit of sex, including homosexuality, S & M, etc. and is not for all readers.  Also, bear in mind that this book is rather hard to get into at first, it took me weeks to get through it, and that is very unusual for me.  A good book, but not necessarily likeable, if you know what I mean.	2003-06-25
US	46905518	R3P719PI6EV96F	034529873X	578816689	Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern	Books	5	33	37	N	N	One of Pern's Greatest Heroines!	Moreta is Weyrwoman at Fort Weyr with Sh'gall as Weyrleader.  Moreta loves Orlith, her dragon queen, and would do anything for her, but she does wish that someone else had flown her during her mating flight.  Sh'gall is a very able weyrleader in the air when fighting thread, but he does not do as well with people.  Moreta is sure that they will go together to the Ruatha Gather, after all it is Lord Alessan's first gather as a Lord Holder and everyone will be there.  However, Sh'gall decides to go to the Telgar Gather and to see the strange cat that was captured in the ocean and put on display there.  Desdra, Moreta's anxious housekeeper insists that Moreta cannot go without Sh'gall and that it is a terrible slight to her mistress, but Moreta wouldn't miss a good gather for the world!<br />Moreta has a wonderful time at the gather with Lord Alessan.  They are both avid racers and enjoy watching the runnerbeasts compete.  When one of the runnerbeasts suddenly collapses, no one is sure what is wrong with the beast, but the fun of the gather continues.  Moreta lingers at Ruatha Hold, but is finally forced to leave.  She is awoken in the early morning hours by a frantic Sh'gall claiming that Masterhealer Capiam has diagnosed a plague that the wild cat brought over with it from the Southern Continent.  All of Pern is in a panic as news of the unknown illness spreads.<br />All too soon there is no hold or weyr that is untouched by the unknown ailment.  But Moreta is a healer and she is determined to help in whatever way she can.  She continues to urge the dragonriders to take care and helps unite multiple weyrs to fly thread together, as well as help care for the sick and wounded.  When Masterhealer Capiam finds a cure, Moreta is thrilled and ready to do whatever is necessary to give the vaccination to everyone on Pern before a second wave of the mutated virus spreads more death.  She cannot understand why some weyrleaders simply refuse to see the truth and will not help take the medicine to the far-reaching holds.  Moreta cannot bear to see people die unnecessarily so she secretly arranges for dragonriders from all the Weyrs to help.  When part of her plan falls through, Moreta has no choice but to go and help deliver the vaccination herself.  But she cannot rider her beloved Orlith because she is guarding her clutch.  When she borrows her mentor's queen Holth, the tragedy begins...<br />I enjoyed this book a lot more than I thought I would.  I first heard of Moreta's Ride in Dragonsinger when Menolly leads the ballad with her fire lizards.  I knew that this book was going to have a bittersweet ending, but I love the Pern series so I thought that I would give it a try.  I thought that Moreta was a great character - strong, but not overpowering.  She tried to make the best of her situation and found joy and love in unlikely places.  I thoroughly enjoyed the romance between Moreta and Alessan, but I felt so sorry for Alessan for having to deal with so much tragedy and so many bitter disappointments when he was so young.  I also enjoyed seeing the inner workings of a Weyr and becoming familiar with a Weyr other than Benden (much as I love it, of course).  I thought that all of the secondary characters were wonderful, too.  It was interesting to see how quickly knowledge was lost from when the first settlers arrived on Pern to the time of Moreta.  I believe that the sickness was something like pneumonia or some other viral disease that few people die of on Earth, but they simply did not know how to combat any unfamiliar disease on Pern.  The plot was very interesting and had a nice, smooth flow as always.  Another wonderful addition to the Pern series!take the medicine to the far-reaching holds.  Moreta cannot bear to see people die unnecessarily so she secretly arranges for dragonriders from all the Weyrs to help.  When part of her plan falls through, Moreta has no choice but to go and help deliver the vaccination herself.  But she cannot rider her beloved Orlith because she is guarding her clutch.  When she borrows her mentor's queen Holth, the tragedy begins...<br />I enjoyed this book a lot more than I thought I would.  I first heard of Moreta's Ride in Dragonsinger when Menolly leads the ballad with her fire lizards.  I knew that this book was going to have a bittersweet ending, but I love the Pern series so I thought that I would give it a try.  I thought that Moreta was a great character - strong, but not overpowering.  She tried to make the best of her situation and found joy and love in unlikely places.  I thoroughly enjoyed the romance between Moreta and Alessan, but I felt so sorry for Alessan for having to deal with so much tragedy and so many bitter disappointments when he was so young.  I also enjoyed seeing the inner workings of a Weyr and becoming familiar with a Weyr other than Benden (much as I love it, of course).  I thought that all of the secondary characters were wonderful, too.  It was interesting to see how quickly knowledge was lost from when the first settlers arrived on Pern to the time of Moreta.  I believe that the sickness was something like pneumonia or some other viral disease that few people die of on Earth, but they simply did not know how to combat any unfamiliar disease on Pern.  The plot was very interesting and had a nice, smooth flow as always.  Another wonderful addition to the Pern series!	2003-06-17
US	46905518	R2VPNRIBGIWUV8	0345339495	585063604	Nerilka's Story (Dragonriders of Pern Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A Unique Book in the Pern Series!	Nerilka is a hardworking rather plain daughter of the Lord Holder of Fort Hold.  She spends most of her summers gathering and laying up medicines and other stores.  She spends the rest of her time helping in the kitchens and sewing or whatever other work needs doing.  When her father decides to take some of her younger, unmarried sisters to the Ruatha Gather in hopes of snaring Lord Alessan as a husband, she believes that she will get to go too, but her father leaves her behind.  Nerilka thinks that this is very cruel because her best friend was Lord Alessan's first wife before she was killed in a tragic runnerbeast accident and she used to write to Nerilka about Ruatha.  Nerilka would give just about anything to see it.<br />When Fort Hold hears the terrible news about the sickness spreading across Pern, Nerilka immediately takes as many stores to the Harper Hall as she can, knowing full well that her father would never give them anything.  Her father forces one of the dragonriders to bring him back to Fort Hold, flagrantly disobeying the rule of the Masterhealer to stay where you were when the sickness started to spread.  Nerilka soon learns that her mother and all of her sisters died of the plague.  Her mother is barely in the ground before her father brings his mistress and her family into the Hold.  Nerilka cannot bear to serve someone younger than herself who lords it over everyone at the Hold.  When she overhears her father denying the Masterhealer and Masterharper medication and other supplies, Nerilka sneaks out several large sacks of the essentials and leaves with them.  She starts treating the illness at a camp just outside of the Fort Hold and then travels to small holdings that are far away from Hold and Weyr.<br />Nerilka soon hears that Ruatha Hold is all but desolate, she knows that she is needed most there.  She arrives to discover that Lord Alessan has lost all of his family, but his sister Oklina.  As she struggles with the few survivors of Ruatha Hold to develop a vaccine that can save all of Pern's livestock, she finds herself falling in love with Lord Alessan.  She knows that he will never care for her, especially since he loves Weyrwoman Moreta, but when news of the terrible tragedy of Moreta's death reaches Ruatha, it changes everything...<br />Nerilka's Story is essentially the same story contained in Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern, but told from a different perspective.  This is the first time in the series that Anne McCaffrey wrote a book about someone other than a dragonrider or a Harper so it was very interesting to see life on Pern from a completely different perspective.  I liked Nerilka - she kept trying to stand up for herself and to do what was right even when everyone else was trying to hold her back and keep her down.  I also enjoyed seeing the story of Moreta from an outsider's point of view and learned a lot about Pern at the time of Moreta that I didn't know before.  My only real complaint about the book is that it is so short!  I was able to read it in about 1 hour (I am a fast reader, though).  If you have enjoyed any of Anne McCaffrey's other books in the Pern series, I know that you will enjoy this one!Hold to develop a vaccine that can save all of Pern's livestock, she finds herself falling in love with Lord Alessan.  She knows that he will never care for her, especially since he loves Weyrwoman Moreta, but when news of the terrible tragedy of Moreta's death reaches Ruatha, it changes everything...<br />Nerilka's Story is essentially the same story contained in Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern, but told from a different perspective.  This is the first time in the series that Anne McCaffrey wrote a book about someone other than a dragonrider or a Harper so it was very interesting to see life on Pern from a completely different perspective.  I liked Nerilka - she kept trying to stand up for herself and to do what was right even when everyone else was trying to hold her back and keep her down.  I also enjoyed seeing the story of Moreta from an outsider's point of view and learned a lot about Pern at the time of Moreta that I didn't know before.  My only real complaint about the book is that it is so short!  I was able to read it in about 1 hour (I am a fast reader, though).  If you have enjoyed any of Anne McCaffrey's other books in the Pern series, I know that you will enjoy this one!	2003-06-17
US	46905518	R1012TVWWZGJNQ	0786010347	697777732	Look Of Love	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful Contemporary Romance!	Shy Esme Jaramillo is so excited to be asked to speak about her work with gene cloning on The Barry Stillman Show.  It is rare for a scientist to have so much exposure - and to be on television!  Esme made sure that her mother, father and two best friends could be there for her to support her in the audience.  She is a little uneasy after some questions that the gorgeous makeup artist, Gavino Mendez, asked her, but she was too distracted by Gavino's gorgeous looks and seemingly real interest in her.  Before she knows it, Esme is out on stage and is horrified to realize that she is actually part of a beauty makeover show where they invite ugly bookworms to be made over.  She cannot believe it when she learns that her co-worker, Vitor Elizalde, nominated her for the show.  She immediately forces her way out of the studio and refuses to listen to Gavino's attempted apologies.  Sure that everyone who has ever known her has seen the show, she retreats to her home in Denver, Colorado and limits her visitors to close friends and family.<br />Gavino feels terrible about what he helped do to Esme and knows that he needs to apologize to her.  He quits his job and travels out to Colorado where he tries to make up for what he did.  Esme is reluctant to accept his apology, but Gavino just has a way of forcing himself into her life.  It would also help if she wasn't so attracted to him.  She reluctantly agrees to rent him the studio apartment over her garage as long as they remain friends.  Gavino is disappointed that she does not seem interested in him in a romantic way, but he is willing to follow her lead for now.  He even offers to help her get a whole new look so that she can wow everyone at the employee dinner where she will run into Vitor for the first time since she was on the show.  As they spend more and more time together, Esme and Gavino fall deeper into love, but neither of them is sure how to share their feelings.  Several misunderstandings threaten to tear them apart and Esme seems to have lost all faith in Gavino.  Can he make her see that she is beautiful just the way she is?<br />This romance is a classic Cinderella story, but written so beautifully and with such wonderful characters that you don't even care.  Esme was a beautiful, caring woman who couldn't understand that physical beauty was nothing compared to who you are inside.  She also learned that what other people say about you is not necessarily true and that you need to believe in yourself.  Gavino was a gorgeous, sexy man who had a been a real wild child and was now finding that he could make a whole new life with this wonderful woman that he had found.  Esme's friends, Lilly and Pilar, and Pilar's children were fun secondary characters (both of whom have a book written about them, by the way).  The book was nicely written, with a well-developed plot and lots of hot scenes between the two main characters.  Sparks were definitely flying here!  A great read - go out and find a copy for your very own!rt and Esme seems to have lost all faith in Gavino.  Can he make her see that she is beautiful just the way she is?<br />This romance is a classic Cinderella story, but written so beautifully and with such wonderful characters that you don't even care.  Esme was a beautiful, caring woman who couldn't understand that physical beauty was nothing compared to who you are inside.  She also learned that what other people say about you is not necessarily true and that you need to believe in yourself.  Gavino was a gorgeous, sexy man who had a been a real wild child and was now finding that he could make a whole new life with this wonderful woman that he had found.  Esme's friends, Lilly and Pilar, and Pilar's children were fun secondary characters (both of whom have a book written about them, by the way).  The book was nicely written, with a well-developed plot and lots of hot scenes between the two main characters.  Sparks were definitely flying here!  A great read - go out and find a copy for your very own!	2003-06-17
US	46905518	R35MGVGX0FFAG9	0345362861	11248610	Dragonsdawn (Dragonriders of Pern Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Answered a Lot of My Questions About Pern!	A small group of settlers have risked everything on the information of a survey of Pern a hundred years or more before.  They have traveled 15 years in deep sleep on older spaceships to reach the new planet and to start a whole new way of life.  Some come because they want the chance to own their own land, others come for the adventure, others come for riches.  When they first arrive on Pern, it truly feels like a paradise.  The settlers choose a valley at the base of three inactive volcanoes to be their first settlement, which they call Landing.  The settlers are eagerly experimenting with seeds and plants brought from other planets and trying to get animals settled and fertilized.  Schools to teach children about their new life are quickly organized.  Charter members of the group get first pick of land and set out exploring and claiming their small holdings.  Others are content to live in Landing and to wait for their turn to spread out.  All seems to be perfect...<br />Eight years later, the settlers notice an unusual cloud formation and think that there is a storm coming in.  But when silver thread-like things start falling from the sky and devouring anything organic that can be found, paradise turns into a kind of living hell.  The only bright spot that can be found in the whole tragedy is that the fire lizards seemed to know when the thread was coming and warned their owners to get inside where it was safe.  The colony hopes that the thread-fall was a one-time occurrence, but then they notice the star with the irregular orbit that has slowly gotten closer to the planet and they realize that the thread is going to keep coming back.  Many colonists despair and demand that the leaders send out the homing beacon to bring help from earth, but that could take 10 years or more, if help comes at all.  Others turn to the fire lizards for answers.  Finally, in one desperate action, they ask a geneticist to manipulate the genes of fire lizards to build something bigger - something more dragon sized that would be more effective against the thread.  With time running out, all of Pern's hopes rest on the project of one woman...<br />This book is a stand-alone in the Pern series in that you don't need to be familiar with any other background before you read it, but there are many things that won't really make sense or won't seem important if you are not familiar with Pern's later history.  Dragonsdawn answers questions such as how the dragons came to be, how they got their mental connection with their riders, how watchweyrs are different from dragons and why, how the colonists ended up in caves on the northern continent instead of the southern continent where they first settled, how the grubs were developed that ate thread, where the cat came from that caused a plague that decimated the population during Moreta's time, who the first dragonriders were and why they named the Holds and Weyrs what they did.  The only complaint that I had was that the story was told from so many different points of view and contained so many characters that you really had to be on your toes while you read it.  At the first part of the book, it wasn't so bad.  McCaffrey refered to people by their first and last names and many of them were familiar to me because they had holds, weyrs and natural landmarks named after then such as Paul Benden, Emily Boll, Sallah Telgar, etc.  Then the last names were dropped and we were left with the first names.  After a while I got used to it, but then we had those long stretches of time where everyone got older all of a sudden and there are children and other people to deal with.  Good thing there are plenty of references in the book to help you keep track of everyone!  Although this book could technically be considered the first in the Pern series as far as chronology goes, I think that it is helpful to read the books in the order that Anne McCaffrey wrote them so that you can fully appreciate the detail of the world thatMcCaffrey has so painstakingly created.  This book is a wonderful blend of science fiction and fantasy and I think anyone would thoroughly enjoy it as there really is something for everyone!McCaffrey has so painstakingly created.  This book is a wonderful blend of science fiction and fantasy and I think anyone would thoroughly enjoy it as there really is something for everyone!	2003-06-17
US	46905518	R2MJQSFIN4IEQO	0449205339	991088698	THOSE ENDEARING YNG CH	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Lackluster Regency Romance	Captain Peregrine Tracey was humiliated when the rich but common Ansteys rejected his suit for their eldest daughter Mary, but he never gave up hope that they would one day marry.  After 10 years of serving in the military, Peregrine inherited the title of the Earl of Devenahm and was instantly acceptable to the Ansteys as a son-in-law.  Determined to erase the memory of his earlier humiliation, the new Earl immediately sets out for the Ansteys country estate to claim Mary's hand in marriage.  Unfortunately, it is immediately apparent to Emily, Mary's younger sister, that whatever affection used to exist between Mary and Peregrine is no longer there.  Indeed, Mary seems quite in love with the vicar, Reverend Peter Cummings and he with her.  However, Mary would never refuse to do her duty and she knows that her family is counting on her to help them rise in social prominence, so she is determined to go through with the wedding.  Emily cannot bear to see Mary unhappy so she promptly drugs Mary's morning tea, slips on a brown wig and marries the earl herself.  Unfortunately, her whole plan backfires when the earl refuses to get the marriage annulled.  So Emily is swept off to the Earl's estate and determines to make the best of her new life as a countess.  She finds herself increasingly attracted to the handsome, taciturn earl, yet unwittingly alienates him every time he comes near her.  The Earl is very frustrated with his newly married state and turns to his mistress for comfort.  When her charms pall, he returns to Emily and tries to woo her, but her dratted cat seems to receive more of Emily's affection than the Earl ever will.  Will the two of them ever show their true affection for each other?<br />This book is a typical regency romance, if a tad more far-fetched than most.  I usually enjoy regency romances, but I did not care for the characters in this one.  Instead of a being a charming young miss, Emily seemed like a featherheaded twit who should have been sent back to the schoolroom to grow up before she tried to marry someone.  I liked the Earl, but the author didn't spend a lot of time on his character.  Emily and the Earl spent much of the book apart and the whole book seemed to be filled with rather boring incidents to keep the plot going, but were never really followed up on.  The author would introduce something, like Emily's charity work with the poor at the Earl's estate, and then just drop it for the rest of the book.  If you are not going to use something to further the plot along then it simply isn't necessary in the book at all.  Anyway, I was disappointed in this romance.  The author has a nice writing style, but the book has little else to recommend it.t back to the schoolroom to grow up before she tried to marry someone.  I liked the Earl, but the author didn't spend a lot of time on his character.  Emily and the Earl spent much of the book apart and the whole book seemed to be filled with rather boring incidents to keep the plot going, but were never really followed up on.  The author would introduce something, like Emily's charity work with the poor at the Earl's estate, and then just drop it for the rest of the book.  If you are not going to use something to further the plot along then it simply isn't necessary in the book at all.  Anyway, I was disappointed in this romance.  The author has a nice writing style, but the book has little else to recommend it.	2003-06-13
US	46905518	R1694YI1RQ7EVJ	050552354X	489560477	Dark Desire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	She Was the Light to His Darkness...	Shea had always been different from those around her.  She needed daily blood infusions and her skin and eyes were very sensitive to the light.  She was determined to find a cure to her rare blood disease and pursued a career as a renowned surgeon who could almost perform miracles.  Her life grew even stranger when she started having these horrible nightmares about a man who was tortured and buried alive.  He kept calling to her in her dreams, alternately begging and demanding that she come to him.  When a fanatic group of vampire hunters target her as a member of the undead, Shea is forced to flee.  Eventually, she ends up in the Carpathian mountains where a voice calls to her.  Almost against her will she finds a cave with a door on the floor.  She is horrified to find that the man of her dreams is real and that he has been buried with a stake in his heart for 7 years.  Although she knows that he is dangerous, as a doctor she cannot leave another person to suffer so.  At first, Jacques believes that Shea helped capture and torture him, but he soon realizes that she is his lifemate, but he cannot remember exactly what a lifemate is.  Jacques was captured by an evil vampire, but most of his life before he was entombed is a big blank.  Shea sets out to heal him and to make him as whole as possible before she leaves to continue her research.  However, her plans go awry when another Carpathian finds her and Jacques and brings the Prince and Gregori to help heal Jacques.  How Shea eventually discovers who - and what - she really is and what love is make for a deeply satisfying love story.<br />I read Dark Desire right after the first book in the Carpathian Series, Dark Prince, and it is quite different from the first book.  At first, I didn't really like the characters, but they really grew on me.  Jacques is a tortured dark hero who cannot remember anything of his past and is completely reliant on Shea.  Shea was a very strong female who was determined to go it alone and prove that she didn't need help from anyone.  It was also wonderful to see some of the characters from Dark Prince pop up here, but you do not have to read the first one to understand what is going on in this one.  I thought that Christine Feehan did a great job with this story and the time just flew by as I sat down and devoured it in one sitting.  If you have not yet experienced the pleasures of Feehan's Dark/Carpathian series, treat yourself - every book is a keeper!nd prove that she didn't need help from anyone.  It was also wonderful to see some of the characters from Dark Prince pop up here, but you do not have to read the first one to understand what is going on in this one.  I thought that Christine Feehan did a great job with this story and the time just flew by as I sat down and devoured it in one sitting.  If you have not yet experienced the pleasures of Feehan's Dark/Carpathian series, treat yourself - every book is a keeper!	2003-06-12
US	46905518	R1HPHQ7XO41IBP	0671578707	628083859	The Spirit Ring	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Fun, Fast Read!	Fiametta Beneforte wants nothing more than to be a great mage like her father.  Well, she would also like to be more beautiful and have the handsome Captain of the Guard Uri Ochs fall in love with her, but she really wants to be a master goldsmith/mage.  Unfortunately, girls simply don't practice trades like men do and her father has never made her an official apprentice, though she does know quite a bit of metalworking.  Her father just completed a beautiful engagement gift for the Duke of Montefoglia and Fiametta is thrilled to learn that she will be able to accompany her father to the feast where it will be presented.  However, when Fiametta sees the Duke murdered by his soon to be son-in-law, Ferrante, her life suddenly changes.  Prospero Beneforte, Fiametta's father, is able to get her out of the castillo and escape, but they are followed by some of Ferrante's soldiers and Prospero dies.  Fiametta keeps heading to the border with her father's body, but she has no idea what she will do.  Then she meets Thur Ochs, Uri's younger brother, and they contrive to return to Montefoglia and ask for Abbot Monreale's help.  For, Ferrante is no ordinary soldier, he wears a spirit ring fashioned by the dark magic of Vitelli, where the spirit of his dead daughter resides and gives him power.  Ferrante pursues Fiametta and steals Prospero's body to make a new, more powerful spirit ring.  Fiametta is frantic to recover her father's body and have him buried in holy ground, but her face is well known in Montefoglia.  So Thur goes in to the castillo as a spy to try and find out all the information that he can.  There he finds much evil for, not only does the dark sorcerer Vitelli plan on making a spirit ring for Ferrante, but he plans on using Uri's spirit to make a ring for himself...<br />The Spirit Ring is based in a quasi-medieval Italy with an interesting tangle of political and religious maneuvering among the duchies.  I didn't like Fiametta at first because she is a spoiled brat, but she grew on me.  I really enjoyed most of the secondary characters and Bujold's descriptions are, as always, superb.  Bujold has a nice, smooth writing style and the plot was evenly paced, if a little predictable.  This is a great book to give to young adults or first time readers of fantasy because there is little magic contained therein.  A light, frothy, fun read!brat, but she grew on me.  I really enjoyed most of the secondary characters and Bujold's descriptions are, as always, superb.  Bujold has a nice, smooth writing style and the plot was evenly paced, if a little predictable.  This is a great book to give to young adults or first time readers of fantasy because there is little magic contained therein.  A light, frothy, fun read!	2003-06-12
US	46905518	RV0HRHO3RREFH	1894869494	415277584	Heirs to Love	Books	5	0	0	N	N	They Were Soul Mates....	Elizabeth Sanderson thought that she was losing her mind when she started having erotic dreams about a strange man with long dark hair.  She was a twenty-eight year old virgin who taught third grade for heaven's sake!  What was happening to her?  Then her friend Lisa talks her into getting a tattoo and she draws what appears to be a family crest, but she knows that she has never seen it before, at least she doesn't remember seeing it before.  When the man of her dreams spots her in a restaurant on the eve of Lisa's wedding, Elizabeth panics and tries her best to avoid him.  However, Roberto San Miguel has been waiting for Elizabeth for his whole life and is not about to let her get away.  He wants to take the time to court her and get to know her slowly, but he knows that his enemy, Hernandez, is hot on his trail and will use anything - or anyone - to cause Roberto pain so he kidnaps Elizabeth and whisks her off to his yacht to set sail for Isla San Miguel.  Elizabeth responds to Roberto, but she thinks that he is crazy because he keeps talking about how they are destined to be together and that they are soul mates.  He even thinks that they are the reincarnations of star-crossed lovers Lupita & Rafael!  She can't seem to get it into Roberto's thick skull that she just isn't that type of person.  Then Roberto shows that he can literally read Elizabeth's mind and she knows that he is crazy.  Roberto tries his best to be patient with her and help her discover who she really is, but it is difficult for him to wait when he has finally found his true soul mate.  Finally, he tells Elizabeth that he will give her one week to come to him and be his wife.  But will Elizabeth have the courage to face her love for Roberto and their intimate link...?<br />The story was not especially original, but I just loved this book anyway!  Elizabeth acted much like any woman would in her situation, drawn to Roberto one moment and trying to escape the next, and I really liked her as a character.  Roberto was a gorgeous hero who would do anything to keep his soul mate by his side and his people happy.  The romance between the two main characters was hot and I loved the touch of the paranormal in this story.  Savannah Michaels also has a nice, smooth writing style and good descriptions.  The book is pretty pricey, but I thought that it was well worth it.  A real keeper!acter.  Roberto was a gorgeous hero who would do anything to keep his soul mate by his side and his people happy.  The romance between the two main characters was hot and I loved the touch of the paranormal in this story.  Savannah Michaels also has a nice, smooth writing style and good descriptions.  The book is pretty pricey, but I thought that it was well worth it.  A real keeper!	2003-06-12
US	46905518	R2ZKC6ABAZH2S2	1585861707	151022282	Sweet Piracy	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Where are all of the pirates?!	Caroline Pembroke is a well-bred English lady who has fallen on hard times.  When her father died in a sudden accident, Caroline discovered that he had lost their fortune and she was forced to go to the US to live with her uncle.  Caroline would have been happy enough, but it was obvious that her aunt did not want her in the house.  Not wanting to cause conflict between her aunt and uncle, Caroline decided to become a governess for the charming Delacroix family in Louisiana.  She comes to truly care for the children and Mr. Delacroix, but cannot warm up to Madame Delacroix.  No matter, for Madame spends all of her time in her room, abed.  Thus, when the Delacroix' eldest daughter is due to come home from her French convent, having decided against taking her vows, they send Caroline on the long ocean voyage to collect her.  On the way back from France, their ship is boarded by a band of privateers and the captain himself forces his way into the ladies' room.  While there he dares to steal a kiss and Caroline accidentally shoots him.<br />Caroline staunchly refuses to discuss the incident and has done all that she can to push it out of her mind.  When Jean, Marquis of Roquefort buys the neighboring plantation, it is just the distraction she needs.  Madame Delacroix immediately starts angling for the Marquis to marry one of her daughters, but, although he is charming, the Marquis does not seem interested.  Then why is he spending so much time at the Delacroix plantation?  And why did the Marquis insist that Caroline help him host his first ball?  It is only as she spends more time with the dashing Marquis that she realizes she has met him somewhere before...<br />I was disappointed in this book because I felt that the description and the title were very misleading.  There was a page of pirates in the whole book and the rest of it was set in Louisiana.  Although the setting was quite charming there, it was not what I expected.  Still, Jennifer Blake's characters are, as always, enchanting and well developed.  She also has a very nice turn of phrase and wonderful, vivid descriptions.  This is just a nice, simple romance with nothing suggestive or scandalous.  Indeed, it is so clean that you could recommend it to your mother or grandmother.always, enchanting and well developed.  She also has a very nice turn of phrase and wonderful, vivid descriptions.  This is just a nice, simple romance with nothing suggestive or scandalous.  Indeed, it is so clean that you could recommend it to your mother or grandmother.	2003-06-06
US	46905518	R10VPLN8CDGYFQ	0770109225	420905924	Hustle, Sweet Love	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Sexy Romance with Quirky Characters	Lacy Kingsley was quietly celebrating her success in landing a job as a writer for a major fashion magazine when she was approached by an older man looking for a night of \\"fun.\\"  When he asks her \\"how much?\\" she isn't sure what he is talking about at first and then she realizes that she is still dressed in the outrageously sexy black dress she just finished modeling on the runway.  Giving in to the irresistible urge to have a little fun at his expense, she tells him fifteen hundred dollars.  Having successfully gotten rid of her problem, Lacy turns to finish her champagne when a tall, dark and handsome stranger approaches her and takes her up on her offer.  Lacy tries to explain to him that it was just a joke, but cannot seem to escape.  Having little more experience than a virgin, Lacy is not at all sure what to expect - certainly not the most incredible night of her life!  Still, everything looks different in the morning and Lacy creeps out the back door while her lover isn't looking.<br />Back in New York Lacy is determined to be a success as a fashion writer.  She is given a backlog of old, boring data to sort through - old designers to track down, small fashion houses to review, etc.  The worst were the clashing, florescent-colored dresses at a sporting wear manufacturer who is trying to branch out.  Lacy feels sorry for the old dear and persuades him to turn them into tacky max dresses and starts a sideline career as a consultant.  She is happily embroiled with her writing and trying to get the dresses to sell when the magazine is purchased by another corporation.  Lacy knows that she is in big trouble when she spots the new owner - Michael Echevarria, corporate shark and none other than Mr. Tall, Dark and Handsome himself...<br />I quite enjoyed this book.  It is true that it is a little dated, but it was fun to remember the fashion excesses of the time.  I didn't feel that the plot line was the most fabulous and some of the dialogue was a little weak, but the characters were really fun.  Michael was a gorgeous hero who just didn't trust anyone and had a hard time believing in love.  Lacy was a very different kind of heroine and was almost a little too quirky for my taste, but she was fun.  I just loved the secondary characters though: her model neighbor with the doberman who throws up all over everything when he gets nervous, the Ivy-League promotion manager who gets the tacky max dresses selling with a disco inferno (literally), the harried private eyes that Michael hires to tail Lacy, all of them were so fun and really made the book enjoyable.  I know that the book is out of print (it would need serious updating to get back into print), but it is available for a pretty cheap price so treat yourself.e characters were really fun.  Michael was a gorgeous hero who just didn't trust anyone and had a hard time believing in love.  Lacy was a very different kind of heroine and was almost a little too quirky for my taste, but she was fun.  I just loved the secondary characters though: her model neighbor with the doberman who throws up all over everything when he gets nervous, the Ivy-League promotion manager who gets the tacky max dresses selling with a disco inferno (literally), the harried private eyes that Michael hires to tail Lacy, all of them were so fun and really made the book enjoyable.  I know that the book is out of print (it would need serious updating to get back into print), but it is available for a pretty cheap price so treat yourself.	2003-06-06
US	46905518	R1BVDQUU3EXH2P	1585868329	122627372	Royal Seduction	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Prince Charming ~ or a Royal Pain?	Angeline had always been a mirror image of Claire.  Her hair was slightly darker, her eyes greener, her face kinder.  She had never had cause to regret their similar appearances until the ruthless Prince Rolfe mistook her for Claire.  Angeline refused to believe Rolfe's wicked accusations against her cousin.  While Claire's head may have been turned enough by Rolfe's elder brother to become his mistress, there is no way that Claire would have helped murder him!  Rolfe refuses to believe that Angeline is not really Claire and kidnaps her to get the information he needs to find his brother's murderer.  There is nothing Angeline can do to persuade him that she is not Claire - until Rolfe seduces her and finds her to be a virgin.  Still, even though Rolfe has not found the woman he sought, he knows that Angeline helped hide her cousin and vows to use whatever means he must to pry the information from her.  Angeline refuses to give in to his demands and unsuccessfully tries to remain immune to his charms.  She has her chance to escape when someone tries to kill the Prince, but she finds herself saving his life and tenderly caring for his wounds.  It seems that one of Prince Rolfe's own bodyguards is trying to kill him.  But who?  And why should Angeline care...?<br />I enjoyed this book quite a bit.  I thought that Angeline was a great heroine who displayed a lot of common sense and plain guts in standing up to the men around her and trying to do what was right.  All of the characters, even the secondary characters, were well fleshed out and had distinct personalities.  Jennifer Blake has a nice, smooth writing style with wonderful descriptions that really made the steamy Southern setting come to life.  The plot was also a bit different from most romances and the reader was kept guessing as to who the real villain of the piece was.  I think that the price is a little steep, however, and would look for a cheaper used copy of the book.	2003-05-27
US	46905518	R1O0VQP7K67YXR	0553258559	601203914	Dragondrums (Harper Hall Trilogy)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Piemur's Incredible Journey...	Piemur is arguably one of the best singers in Harper Hall.  He is eagerly anticipating his performance singing the role of Lessa in a new piece that Master Dominic has commissioned, when his voice starts to change.  If Piemur can no longer sing, what role can he play at the Harper Hall?  He has no patience for scribing, no skill for creating instruments and he doesn't compose, all he does is sing.  Luckily, the Masterharper has a special job just for him.  He is to become one of the Drummaster's apprentices and learn the drumbeats that deliver messages over the continent of Pern.  Unfortunately, he is not well received in the drummer's tower and barely escapes lasting harm when his fellow apprentices play some nasty pranks on him.  But the Masterharper is not done with Piemur yet and quickly sends him out with Sebell to do some unobtrusive information gathering at Lord Meron's hold.  Piemur is excited to be of help, but his natural curiosity gets the better of him and he finds some fire lizard eggs.  Ever since he started helping Menolly feed her fair, he has desperately wanted a fire lizard egg of his own, a queen, naturally.  He cannot resist the temptation and steals one of the eggs.  When it is noticed, Piemur is forced into hiding and finds himself on the largely uninhabited Southern Continent.  Unsure of who is friend and who is foe, Piemur sets off to make a home for himself and to forge a new life with his fire lizard, Farli, his runnerbeast, Stupid, and his own quick wits to aid him.<br />Dragondrums tells the tale of Piemur, one of the first harpers to befriend Menolly (Dragonsong & Dragonsinger) when she came to Harper Hall.  He was a rascal in those books, but a very loveable character.  I gave this book 4 stars because I felt that Piemur changed quite abruptly from that fun-loving boy into a secretive, solitude-seeker, which is completely opposite from what he was before.  I know that it is high time that he grew up and changed, but I did not feel that it was in necessarily a good way.  I still enjoyed the book and feel that anyone reading McCaffrey's excellent Pern series will not want to miss it because it offers some critical links as to what is happening on Pern in general between Dragonsinger and The White Dragon, but I enjoyed Dragonsong & Dragonsinger (book 1 & 2 of the Harper Hall Trilogy) much more so I was a little disappointed.it was in necessarily a good way.  I still enjoyed the book and feel that anyone reading McCaffrey's excellent Pern series will not want to miss it because it offers some critical links as to what is happening on Pern in general between Dragonsinger and The White Dragon, but I enjoyed Dragonsong & Dragonsinger (book 1 & 2 of the Harper Hall Trilogy) much more so I was a little disappointed.	2003-05-23
US	46905518	R1Z718NADR7OMX	0759249210	609738836	The Bewitching Grace	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Lackluster Romantic "Thriller"	Anne is eagerly looking forward to her stay with childhood friend Miranda while she researches an article for her newspaper.  After all, Anne hasn't seen Miranda since her wedding 5 months ago when she married the rich & handsome Louis.  However, when Anne arrives at Indian Mound, a beautiful Southern plantation, she finds Miranda is greatly changed.  Anne knows that Miranda is not happy in her new marriage and she is keeping secrets from her, which is not like her at all.  Louis and his brother, Stephan, aren't very welcoming, either.  In fact, a voodoo talisman wishing her away from the plantation is set outside her door mere hours after her arrival.  The longer Anne stays at Indian Mound, the more uneasy she becomes.  Who left the voodoo talisman outside her door and killed a chameleon on her pillow with a hat pin?  Lena, the cook, is a well-known practitioner of the voodoo arts, but why would she dislike Anne when she doesn't even know her?  Stephan is very hostile to Anne, but the sneaky, subtle approach just doesn't seem his style.  Aunt Hattie, the woman who raised Stephan and Louis since they were children, is a sweet older lady who seems to enjoy having someone to talk to, but she is very knowledgeable about herbs and voodoo rituals.  On the other hand, Nico, the would-be resident poet, is a little too charming and seems to be up to something.  And why does everything seem to keep coming back to a girl's unsolved murder at the hunting lodge?  Anne feels sure that she needs to get Miranda out of the terrible situation she is in, but, as she refuses to leave Louis and begins to act more and more erratically, Anne is determined to get to the bottom of the mystery...<br />I think that this book was originally published in 1974 under the pseudonym of Patricia Maxwell.  As an early work of Jennifer Blake, it shows quite a few shortcomings, but is beautifully written.  The author has a wonderful way of describing things and has a nice, smooth writing style.  I was not very excited about her characters and didn't really feel anything for them.  The romantic tension between Anne and Stephan was rather lackluster and seems to have come together a little too abruptly at the end.  There are virtually no romantic scenes between the two, as well.  The ending is a bit of a surprise, but the clues are there if the reader is paying attention.  I feel the cost of the book is too high for what you get for it.  Find a very cheap used copy or check it out from your local library as it is not worth your money.not very excited about her characters and didn't really feel anything for them.  The romantic tension between Anne and Stephan was rather lackluster and seems to have come together a little too abruptly at the end.  There are virtually no romantic scenes between the two, as well.  The ending is a bit of a surprise, but the clues are there if the reader is paying attention.  I feel the cost of the book is too high for what you get for it.  Find a very cheap used copy or check it out from your local library as it is not worth your money.	2003-05-23
US	46905518	R33ATPREOW8U1F	0425056023	56857626	Dancers Of Arun	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Beautifully Written Fantasy	Kerris does not fit in at Tornor Keep and he never really has, but he has no where else to go.  After all, who else would want a one-armed boy who has an alarming tendency to have fits at any give time or place.  The only skill that Kerris has is that of a scribe.  He has spent a great about of time developing this skill in the hope that one day he will be hired at a rich house and spend time writing and reading.  But all of his dreams change when his older brother, Kel, comes with the fabled Dancers of Arun to collect him.  Kerris is not sure what to think of his brother and is alternately repulsed and attracted to him.  As they journey to Kel's home, Kerris learns that all of the dancers have \\"gifts\\" just like Kerris does.  For Kerris doesn't really have fits, he just sees life through other people's eyes and leaves his body for a time.  He is what the dancers call a farspeaker, like Kel's lover, Sefer.  However, even though Kel repeatedly tells Kerris that he is welcome at his home and that he belongs there, Kerris doesn't feel that he really has a place.  It will take a terrible tragedy to help Kerris realize that he does have worth and that he is important in the lives of those around him...<br />For the first time, the second book in a series is far better than the first or the third (Watchtower & The Northern Girl, respectively)!  I thought that this book was beautifully written and have owned an old tattered copy for a long time.  Kerris' growth as a character is fascinating, as is the world in which he lives.  I loved all of the characters in the book and could identify with all of them because they all have weaknesses and they all struggle, some more than others, but life is not easy for any of them.  The only caution that I would offer is that the love between Kerris and Kel is sometimes physical and sex between brothers is not a common thread in books so if you feel this would upset you, read another fantasy (probably not by Lyn, though, as most of her books deal with homosexuality).ooks deal with homosexuality).	2003-05-23
US	46905518	R1PL3CNKQSTPO4	0345341678	11248610	The White Dragon (Dragonriders of Pern Vol 3)	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Meet Dragon Rider Jaxom & His Wonderful Dragon Ruth!	Jaxom is the future Lord Holder of Ruatha, one of Pern's oldest and most venerable holds and has been groomed for his role since he was very young.  When he accidentally impresses a white dragon named Ruth, everyone is dismayed and worried about what to do with him.  Dragonriders belong in the Weyr, after all, and a man simply cannot be a dragonrider and a Lord Holder - or can he?  Jaxom is determined to keep Ruth and to learn how to fly, breathe fire and kill Thread - and be the future leader of one of the most prosperous Holds on Pern.  What others refuse to teach him, Jaxom discovers for himself.  It is as Ruth and Jaxom are experimenting that they find themselves in the position to prevent a great disaster on Pern and to unite the Oldtimers and the Weyrs of the Northern Continent through Ruth's unique ability of always knowing when he is and his rapport with fire lizards.  Ruth and Jaxom even discover some new \\"secrets\\" on the Southern Continent that the ancients left behind!<br />The White Dragon is simply a superb book.  I loved the characters and really felt that I identified with Jaxom as he was growing up and growing into his roles as both a dragonrider and as a Lord Holder.  Readers who have read McCaffrey's previous books in the Pern series will simply find that it is another story about Weyleaders F'lar and Lessa (Dragonflight & Dragonquest), as well as Masterharper Robinton and Journeyman Menolly (Dragonsong & Dragonsinger) told from a different, very enjoyable perspective.  I loved the way McCaffrey took the time to incorporate older characters so that the readers know what is happening in their lives.  The White Dragon is an exciting link between the first several books and the next grouping as there are many surprises and new discoveries that take place here.  Ruth is also one of my favorite dragons and was such a joy to read about.  Anyone who loves fantasy will enjoy this book so do yourself the favor and buy this book!	2003-05-23
US	46905518	R3TEBEXPCA8V2Y	0812505875	624726899	Three Women	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	Fun, Well-Written Mystery/Romance Stories	Three Women is three separate stories written by Anne McCaffrey quite a while ago.  All three of the stories are markedly different, but all are very well written and quite engaging.<br />Ring of Fear is about Nialla Dunn, a young woman who has been on the run ever since she found her horse-trainer father murdered and she was raped by her father's ex-employer.  She has disguised her looks and stays on the move by traveling from horse show to horse show to compete.  Her only friends are her two horses Orfeo and Phi Bete and her cat Dice.  Falling in love with handsome, mysterious Rafe Clery is the last thing she has planned...<br />The Mark of Merlin takes place during World War II and is the story of Carla and her big german shepherd, Merlin.  James Carlylse \\"Carla\\" Murdock threw herself into her studies when she received the news of her father's death in combat.  When she fell desperately ill, she was sent off to stay with her guardian, Major Laird, whom she had never met.  Unfortunately, Major Laird had no idea that \\"James\\" was a girl.  He also had no idea about how stubborn she was and how vengeful she would be when she discovered that her father was murdered in Europe...<br />The Kilternan Legacy is the story of Irene \\"Rene\\" Teasey, a recent divorcee with two hilarious twins, Snow and Simon.  Rene is ready for a change when she hears that she inherited some property from an unknown great aunt in Ireland.  Little does Rene know that she is going to have a major battle on her hands as real estate agents, sleazy land developers and her own family battle it out for her new property.  Rene feels that she can deal with this, but she cannot understand why her great aunt hated Shay Kerrigan because she is beginning to fall in love with him...<br />Of the three stories, I enjoyed Ring of Fear the most and feel that this one is worth buying the book for.  I also enjoyed the Kilternan Legacy, although there isn't really a lot of romance in that story, per se.  I didn't care for The Mark of Merlin, but it was okay.  All three stories are well written and have nicely developed characters and a clear plot.  None of the stories are very long and they are all currently available in reprint editions, but you have to buy them separately, which gets to be pretty expensive.  If you keep watch for a little while, you should be able to find a used copy of Three Women that isn't too expensive and this book is worth your time, especially if you have enjoyed any other McCaffrey books!e for The Mark of Merlin, but it was okay.  All three stories are well written and have nicely developed characters and a clear plot.  None of the stories are very long and they are all currently available in reprint editions, but you have to buy them separately, which gets to be pretty expensive.  If you keep watch for a little while, you should be able to find a used copy of Three Women that isn't too expensive and this book is worth your time, especially if you have enjoyed any other McCaffrey books!	2003-05-14
US	46905518	RYBYQO7GC8QE5	1587157934	455402066	The Kilternan Legacy	Books	4	95	95	N	N	Pleasant Little Romantic Novel	Irene \\"Rene\\" Teasey is still trying to recover from her bitter divorce when she learns that her great aunt Irene, whom she never met, has left her some property in Ireland.  Rene is unsure if she wants to go, but her teenage twins, Simon and Snow, are determined to go.  Before she knows it, Rene finds herself in a quaint Irish hotel with some sleazy real estate agent trying to buy the land cheap.  The twins talk her out of it and hustle her to Irene's property where Rene forces a bulldozer off of her road with a shotgun.  Rene isn't at all sure that she wants to get involved in a battle with some land developers, but she falls in love with her new house and feels that she needs to honor her great aunt's wishes of keeping on the old tenants in the cottages out back.  In no time at all, Rene is developing a backbone and a real personality and really has the opportunity to come into her own far away from her ex-husband and her family.  She even finds a new love interest, Shay Kerrigan, whom her great aunt Irene hated for reasons unknown to Rene.  Shay seems to genuinely care for her and her twins, but is he really interested in her or in her property?  And why do her new tenants hate Shay?  As Rene becomes more involved in the lives of those around her, she finds that she had a lot more in common with her great aunt Irene than she ever knew.<br />This is a charming little romance/mystery novel that most readers will enjoy.  It is a little dated as it was originally published some time ago (this is a reprint edition), but in a quaint sort of way.  The main characters were quite well developed and the reader will find herself rooting for Rene and urging her to stand up for herself for once.  But the supporting characters were absolutely delightful: Irene's twins Snow and Simon were hilarious and so much like teenagers now, sometimes so very grown up and other times so very not and the lovely Ladies Brandel, two very elderly noblewomen who were so very sweet.  The tenants were also quite fascinating.  This book is also a very clean romance - no swearing, no sex scenes, although there are some references to domestic violence.  All in all, a very well written nice little find by Anne McCaffrey.were also quite fascinating.  This book is also a very clean romance - no swearing, no sex scenes, although there are some references to domestic violence.  All in all, a very well written nice little find by Anne McCaffrey.	2003-05-14
US	46905518	R1HTPQENGRWZ9W	1587154935	53874480	The Mark of Merlin	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Well Written, But a Little Blah	James Carlysle \\"Carla\\" Murdock refuses to let life get her down.  She may have just lost her father in World War II, she may be recovering from a debilitating illness, and she may have slightly misled her new guardian into thinking that she was a boy, but she refuses to leave her beloved dog, Merlin, alone in a cage on the train.  So begins the story of The Mark of Merlin, a murder-mystery romance from Anne McCaffrey, best known for the Pern series.  When Carla arrives at her destination, she has to explain to the gruff young Major Laird her minor deception and figure out what to do from there.  The Major instantly realizes that it is improper for Carla to stay with him, but where else can he take her in the middle of a blizzard?  As more guests surprise Carla and Major Laird with their appearances, Carla becomes more and more suspicious about her father's death and eventually realizes that he was murdered.  But why?  Her father was a highly respected officer and all of his men loved him.  Determined to find out, Carla lets nothing stand in her way - not even her growing feelings for the handsome Major Laird...<br />I felt that the story itself was fine, a little blah, like I said, but it moved along at a good pace.  The part that was the most lackluster for me was the characters themselves.  I simply could not identify with any of the characters and found that I didn't particularly like them either, especially Carla.  As Carla is the only female in the book and the main character, this didn't make me enjoy the story any more.  Carla waffles between being a spoiled brat, a great housekeeper, and a growing young woman.  How someone like Major Laird could have fallen in love with her in just a few days is simply beyond me.  The story is well written, the little details about World War II provided good background information, many of the secondary characters, particularly the villains, were great, but I would only buy this book if you find it for a very good deal in a used bookstore.used bookstore.	2003-05-14
US	46905518	RXIEDJFCSPC3U	1587150166	481338060	Ring of Fear	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Great Murder-Mystery Romance!	Nialla has been on the run since she found her horse-trainer father murdered.  The police didn't seem to be interested in finding her father's killer and everyone else took advantage of her naivete, including her father's ex-employer, who brutally raped her.  Terrified that someone will find her, she dyes her red hair a mousy brown and keeps on the move, traveling from horse show to horse show.  Her greatest loves are her horses, Orfeo & Phi Bete, and her coon cat, Dice, until she meets Rafe Cleary.  Rafe is unlike any other man she has ever met and she finds herself falling in love with him before she can stop herself.  Without Nialla knowing it, Rafe does some digging into her background and realizes that she is in desperate need of his protection, whether she wants it or not.  He quickly marries her and sweeps her off to his beautiful country estate.  Nialla is happier than she has ever been, but will her all too-perfect storybook ending last?<br />This is a quick, fun read written in an old-fashioned romantic style.  All of McCaffrey's characters were great: Nialla is a strong woman, but not afraid to lean on someone else for help, Rafe is a fascinating, mysterious man whom readers will want to learn a lot more about, Mr. Marchmount is the villain who the reader actually begins to feel sorry for because he is so pathetic, but the animals are the best characters and have so much personality, especially Dice, that it is worth reading the book simply to read about them.  This book is a far cry from McCaffrey's popular Pern series, but is very well written and enjoyable all the same!	2003-05-14
US	46905518	R1RRTQWDMYSR1C	0553258540	155744261	Dragonsinger (Harper Hall Trilogy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of My All-Time Favorites!	Dragonsinger is the second book in the Harper Hall Trilogy and is the sequel to Dragonsong. It starts right after the previous book ends, with Menolly arriving in Harper Hall a-dragonback. There she begins her musical education with the masters of music. Menolly always thought that harpers would be different and that she would fit in among them, but she finds that people are the same wherever you go. All of the other girls are jealous of her musical talents and do not want her living in their cottage. The boys insist that she has no place with them and her nine fire lizards make her stand out even more. Still, she is Masterharper Robinton's special apprentice and he seems to believe in her and to love her new songs. As Menolly struggles to find her place among the harpers of Pern she will discover much about herself, as well as the remarkable secrets about fire lizards and eventually find an honored place among the Harpers of Pern.<br />Even though I have enjoyed all of McCaffrey's books, the Harper Hall trilogy has always been my favorite. I first read this book when I was in junior high school and simply loved it. I have read my copy time and time again. McCaffrey has a nice, smooth writing style with great descriptions so readers will have no trouble visualizing the life on Pern. She also does a nice job of throwing in little recaps so that those who have not read Dragonflight and Dragonquest can still understand what is going on. I simply loved the world of the Harpers and think that any reader of fantasy will enjoy this enchanting series.	2003-05-07
US	46905518	RCUXBE11WG791	0684804298	851751813	Dead Over Heels (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	If the Shoe Fits...	Aurora \\"Roe\\" Teagarden had just finished wrestling her lounge chair into a comfortable position when the body of her old nemesis, Detective Jack Burns, landed with a thud in her front yard.  Everyone in town knew that Jack and Roe did not get along, but its not like Roe could be in two places at once so the police start looking for other suspects.  But then Roe has an argument with her assistant at the library and she turns up brutally beaten the next day and her open purse is found on the hood of her bodyguard's car.  An admirer sends her flowers with no name attached, her cat is suddenly sporting a new ribbon around his collar, her ex-lover is stabbed, and that is just the beginning.  Roe has been found in the middle of murder and mayhem before, but this time, it's personal...<br />I enjoyed this book, just as I have enjoyed all of the Aurora Teagarden series, but this one was not as good as the previous books.  Roe solved the crimes a little too easily and there was a little too much going on for no one else to spot that the connection between all of the goings-on was Roe herself.  I know it is a small police force, but come on.  Anyway, Charlaine Harris' writing style is still very engaging and clear.  I always enjoy her characters and there were some new people to meet in this book that were fun to get to know because they were a little different.  I just wish that the plot had been a little bit better developed and solved.  I felt that the author was rushing to finish this one and just decided to end it one day, wrote the last couple of pages and called it done.  Still, if you have enjoyed her other books, you will enjoy this one and, if you are like me, you like to read a series all the way through, so find a cheap copy.	2003-05-07
US	46905518	R8KWJQ8EC3Y85	0553258524	601203914	Dragonsong (Volume One of the Harper Hall Trilogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of My All-Time Favorites!	Menolly is the youngest daughter of Yanus, Sea Holder of Half-Circle Sea Hold. He is a hard man who works hard and is very set in his ways. He strongly believes that girls are made to work in the kitchens and doing other chores - not playing music. It was fine for Menolly to experiment with new tunes while Petiron, the Harper was alive. But, now that he has passed on, Yanus no longer wants Menolly to have anything to do with music. Unfortunately, a new Harper cannot arrive for some time so he lets Menolly teach the younger children while everyone waits. But when the new Harper does arrive, Yanus firmly informs Menolly that he no longer wants her to sing or to play. Menolly rebels, of course, but when she slices her hand while helping cut fish, she feels that she will never play again. She turns to spending time alone and, when she is caught out during threadfall, she takes refuge in a cave where she impresses nine fire lizards. She is quite content living alone, completely unaware that the harper at Half Circle Sea Hold is earnestly looking for the writer of the fabulous new songs that Petiron sent to Harper Hall before he died. Menolly is caught without shelter during a later threadfall and saved by a dragonrider, who takes her to Benden Weyr. There, she meets the Masterharper and finally has the chance to let people know how talented she is.<br />Dragonsong is the first book in the Harper Hall Trilogy, one of Anne McCaffrey's best books. I first read this book when I was in junior high school and have always loved it, reading it time and time again. Anne McCaffrey has a nice, easy writing style that it easy for all to understand and her characters are very engaging. Young adults especially will enjoy coming of age with Menolly and seeing her succeed and come into her own. If you have no previous introduction to McCaffrey's Pern/Dragonrider series, do not worry because she does a great job at putting in just enough information for those who have not read Dragonflight and Dragonquest, but not too much so the readers who are familiar with Pern do not get frustrated reading the same information. If you like reading fantasy, dragons, or music - you will love this book!ght and Dragonquest, but not too much so the readers who are familiar with Pern do not get frustrated reading the same information. If you like reading fantasy, dragons, or music - you will love this book!	2003-05-07
US	46905518	R2P2E6AB7ULGEE	0345335082	254215756	Dragonquest (Dragonriders of Pern #2)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Great Fantasy/Sci Fi About Dragons!	Dragonquest begins seven Turns after Dragonflight and the reader is immediately plunged back into the complex world of Pern.  F'lar and Lessa are still Weyrleaders at Benden and are struggling to unite all of Pern to fight the deadly Thread.  It is true that the 5 weyrs who jumped through time to come forward to aid Benden were there in Pern's time of need, but they are set in their ways and not willing to change.  F'lar has heard too many complaints from Holds and Crafthalls under the protection of the Oldtimers' Weyrs to disregard them any longer.  When the Weyrleaders even go so far as to keep other Weyrs uninformed of irregular Threadfall, F'lar has no choice but to take action.  He immediately starts looking for alternative ways of fighting Thread and easing relations between the dragonmen and the rest of the Pernese, but it is an uphill battle all the way.  Meantime, there are other problems brewing inside the Weyrs themselves.  Kylara, Weyrwoman of the Southern Weyr, has caused much dissent and no end of headaches for the Weryleaders.  Brekke, a new queen, is desperately afraid of what will happen when her queen rises to mate.  F'nor is trying to support his half-brother F'lar in all of his endeavors, but he has many problems of his own.  Outside of the Werys, the Lord Holders cannot understand why the dragonmen simply do not go to the Red Star and kill the Thread there, before it falls on Pern.  Emotions are running high and F'lar and Lessa have their hands full trying to keep everything tied together, but will they be able to unite Pern?<br />This is the second book in The Dragonriders of Pern book and is just as good as the first one in the series.  I felt that this book was a little more complex than the first because the author could spend more time on intertwining people's lives since the reader is more familiar with the world of Pern.  This will make it a little more difficult for those who have not read Dragonflight, however.  I simply love Anne McCaffrey's characters so it is wonderful to have a series where you get to see the characters grow and change.  Even McCaffrey's supporting characters are well-fleshed out and fun to read about.  If you enjoy fantasy or science fiction or dragons, do not miss out on this series!frey's characters so it is wonderful to have a series where you get to see the characters grow and change.  Even McCaffrey's supporting characters are well-fleshed out and fun to read about.  If you enjoy fantasy or science fiction or dragons, do not miss out on this series!	2003-05-07
US	46905518	R1JY7FXVR835NM	0689860080	601203914	Dragonsong (Harper Hall Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of My All-Time Favorites!	Menolly is the youngest daughter of Yanus, Sea Holder of Half-Circle Sea Hold. He is a hard man who works hard and is very set in his ways. He strongly believes that girls are made to work in the kitchens and doing other chores - not playing music. It was fine for Menolly to experiment with new tunes while Petiron, the Harper was alive. But, now that he has passed on, Yanus no longer wants Menolly to have anything to do with music. Unfortunately, a new Harper cannot arrive for some time so he lets Menolly teach the younger children while everyone waits. But when the new Harper does arrive, Yanus firmly informs Menolly that he no longer wants her to sing or to play. Menolly rebels, of course, but when she slices her hand while helping cut fish, she feels that she will never play again. She turns to spending time alone and, when she is caught out during threadfall, she takes refuge in a cave where she impresses nine fire lizards. She is quite content living alone, completely unaware that the harper at Half Circle Sea Hold is earnestly looking for the writer of the fabulous new songs that Petiron sent to Harper Hall before he died. Menolly is caught without shelter during a later threadfall and saved by a dragonrider, who takes her to Benden Weyr. There, she meets the Masterharper and finally has the chance to let people know how talented she is.<br />Dragonsong is the first book in the Harper Hall Trilogy, one of Anne McCaffrey's best books. I first read this book when I was in junior high school and have always loved it, reading it time and time again. Anne McCaffrey has a nice, easy writing style that it easy for all to understand and her characters are very engaging. Young adults especially will enjoy coming of age with Menolly and seeing her succeed and come into her own. If you have no previous introduction to McCaffrey's Pern/Dragonrider series, do not worry because she does a great job at putting in just enough information for those who have not read Dragonflight and Dragonquest, but not too much so the readers who are familiar with Pern do not get frustrated reading the same information. If you like reading fantasy, dragons, or music - you will love this book!ht and Dragonquest, but not too much so the readers who are familiar with Pern do not get frustrated reading the same information. If you like reading fantasy, dragons, or music - you will love this book!	2003-05-05
US	46905518	R1U75E7IMJHR6R	0345335465	496469815	Dragonflight (Dragonriders of Pern - Volume 1)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Wonderful Sci Fi/Fantasy About Dragons!	Lessa waited 10 long years in hiding for her chance to reclaim her birthright.  As the last of the Ruathan blood, she must hide her true identity or be killed by Fax, the usurper who killed all of her kin and claimed Ruatha Hold for his own.  When the dragonrider, F'lar, comes on search for some likely candidates to impress dragons, Lessa knew that her time had come.  Unfortunately, her plans did not go quite the way she wanted them to and she ends up in Benden Weyr, where she impresses the Queen dragon, the beautiful Ramoth.  Even though Lessa is now Weyrwoman and dragonrider, her troubles are far from over.  The dragons live to kill thread, deadly spores that fall from the sky and eat every living thing in their paths.  But thread have not fallen for over 400 Turns and the people of Pern no longer want to support the dragonriders, of which few are left.  F'lar is convinced that the thread will fall again - and soon.  Can F'lar and Lessa mobilize the forces of Pern to fight the deadly forces of thread and survive?<br />Dragonflight is the first book in Anne McCaffrey's highly acclaimed Dragonriders of Pern series.  She carefully eases you into the world of Pern and the reader has no trouble visualizing the planet and its people.  McCaffrey also has a nice, easy to understand writing style that will make this book popular among young adults and adults alike.  Her characters are engaging and anyone will root for the stubborn, opinionated Lessa and her all-too-perfect mate, F'lar.  Readers will also love the fact that this book is the start of a long series and that, even though F'lar and Lessa are not the main characters of all of them, they figure into most of them so feel free to get attached to them!  If you have not yet read any books by McCaffrey then you are in for a real treat!	2003-05-05
US	46905518	R1KTKV1XM00DTC	0689860072	155744261	Dragonsinger (Harper Hall of Pern)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	One of My All Time Favorites!	Dragonsinger is the second book in the Harper Hall Trilogy and is the sequel to Dragonsong.  It starts right after the previous book ends, with Menolly arriving in Harper Hall a-dragonback.  There she begins her musical education with the masters of music.  Menolly always thought that harpers would be different and that she would fit in among them, but she finds that people are the same wherever you go.  All of the other girls are jealous of her musical talents and do not want her living in their cottage.  The boys insist that she has no place with them and her nine fire lizards make her stand out even more.  Still, she is Masterharper Robinton's special apprentice and he seems to believe in her and to love her new songs.  As Menolly struggles to find her place among the harpers of Pern she will discover much about herself, as well as the remarkable secrets about fire lizards and eventually find an honored place among the Harpers of Pern.<br />Even though I have enjoyed all of McCaffrey's books, the Harper Hall trilogy has always been my favorite.  I first read this book when I was in junior high school and simply loved it.  I have read my copy time and time again.  McCaffrey has a nice, smooth writing style with great descriptions so readers will have no trouble visualizing the life on Pern.  She also does a nice job of throwing in little recaps so that those who have not read Dragonflight and Dragonquest can still understand what is going on.  I simply loved the world of the Harpers and think that any reader of fantasy will enjoy this enchanting series.	2003-05-05
US	46905518	R3EY4RROR4JGW1	1574101129	255823873	What No One Ever Tells You about Starting Your Own Business	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Some Good Advice and Some Great Success Stories!	What No One Ever Tells You About Starting Your Own Business is a compilation of 101 tips from entrepreneurs who have successfully started their own businesses.  From road signs to electronic circuit boards, healthy cookies to paint stirrers, this book gives the reader a collection of eclectic stories from people who have a bit of advice for those who are just starting on the road that they have previously traveled.  Most of the advice is nothing startling or new and, if you have read other books about creating your own business, you have probably heard them before.  The strength of this book lies in the fact that each little lesson is presented as a kind of case study where the entrepreneur shows you how not following that advice hurt their growth or caused their start up to be more difficult than it needed to be.  Their advice includes sections on 'Look Before You Leap' (make a plan, get some training, its harder than you think, you need more money than you plan, etc.), 'Early Decisions' (know your strengths, get advice/help from others, grow your business, balance personal life and work, etc.) 'The Money Chase (everything costs more than you think, how to get funding, should you sell part of your business for money, equity vs. debt financing, etc.) 'Management Issues' (counting inventory, look at your business the way outsiders would, coping with growth, nightmare customers, etc.) 'Helping Hands' (delegating, hire the best, sales commissions, partnerships, etc.) and 'Marketing' (you need a plan, test different ways of advertising, focusing on your customer niche, etc).  All of these sections had some useful advice, but they were very brief, no more than a page or two.  However, the book was pretty inspirational because all of these entrepreneurs had problems and challenges, but they kept going forward and they ended up being successful.  If you are looking for something motivational and fun that is also informative on the side, this book is for you.	2003-04-18
US	46905518	R2ZO3Q95IVXMAN	0312983700	303328000	Killer Stuff (Jane Wheel Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Antique Murder in Modern Times!	Jane Wheel has had some big changes in her life lately. She had been downsized from her job as an ad executive, kissed her next door neighbor, separated from her husband, found out her father was going in for some medical tests and discovered her next door neighbor's wife dead in her living room. However, Jane keeps herself busy with her new job as a \\"picker\\" for an antique dealer. She spends her time scrounging around through moldly basements, dusty attics and anywhere else she can find treasures at estate sales, garage sales, flea markets, rummage sales, etc. Unfortunately, Jane's unlucky streak continues when she and her best friend since elementary school, Tim, discover the dead body of Tim's assistant in his flower shop. Luckily, the detective working on these cases is fascinated by Jane and her collector tendencies and uses Jane's powers of observation to help him gather evidence. As Jane roots around for clues, she picks up antique photo albums, early American pottery, Bakelite buttons and other treasures as well as more dead bodies...<br />Killer Stuff is one of the funnest reads I have had in years. All of Sharon Fiffer's characters are absolutely superbly drawn and seem so real. Jane Wheel is such a fascinating character and so fun to read about as she hunts down treasures and tries to get her life back together again. Detective Oh was also another great character and is quite atypical from your usual run-of-the-mill detectives. I also loves the way Fiffer described the estate sales and the viciousness of the pickers and antique dealers who frequent them. I quite enjoy watching programs like The Antique Roadshow and this book was just great because it described so many antiques and collectibles. The reader will learn just as much as they will be entertained by this book. Buy this one - it is definitely a keeper and an author to watch out for!	2003-04-16
US	46905518	R1BUAQISU4HNIF	0375753494	979654948	The Young Entrepreneur's Edge: Using Your Ambition,  Independence, and Youth to Launch a Succesful Business (Career Guides)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Some Great Advice About Starting Your Own Business	The Young Entrepreneur's Edge is not so much a how-to book on starting your own business, but is really a \\"how-to-cope-with-life-while-starting-and-succeeding-in-your-own-business-book.\\"  I have read many books on starting your own business and this book has some very unique advice because it is geared towards younger entrepreneurs.  Jennifer Kushell offers some practical advice about selecting the right business for you, writing a business plan, getting funded, etc.  But what sets the book apart are its sections on not having any credit or not having good credit, using interns instead of full time employees, how to get mentors and advisors, how to present a professional image despite of your youthful looking appearance, dealing with family and friends who don't support your decision, how not to starve, etc.  The only complaint that I had about the book was that some sections were not very complete on their advice.  It is true that there are lots of other books out there on subjects such as marketing and business plans and so on, but if the author was just going to recommend that we look elsewhere, why did she include a chapter on that topic in the book in the first place?  Some of the information is a little dated, but not too bad.  I also would have like to have seen more resources to go to in the back of the book as to where to go to get that information that she doesn't cover in the book.  Regardless, if you are a twenty-something or younger entrepreneur, there are some really helpful hints to be found in this book and it is well worth your time to read for Jennifer Kushell's upbeat attitude and encouragement.  She is absolutely right in that there is no better time for young entrepreneurs to go into business then now, when we have little or nothing to lose.	2003-04-16
US	46905518	R3G484AWJL51A	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Fun, Fast, Entertaining Read!	Stanely Yelnats IV has had a run of bad luck lately.  Well, actually, his whole life has been a run of bad luck, but recently his luck has been really bad.  I mean, how many people get hit with some sneakers falling out of the sky and are convicted of stealing them?  How was Stanley supposed to know that the sneakers belonged to a famous baseball player?  Of course, no one believes him and he has the choice of going to jail or to Camp Green Lake.  Stanley has always wanted to go away to camp like other kids do, so he leaps at the chance to go to Camp Green Lake.  But when Stanley arrives, he discovers that there is no lake at Camp Green Lake - there are just a bunch of holes.<br />It doesn't take Stanley long to figure out that there is more to Camp Green Lake than meets the eye.  At first it is all Stanley can do to dig his 5 x 5 foot hole everyday and deal with the bad-tempered, sunflower-seed-spitting Mr. Sir, the seemingly kind-hearted Mr. \\"Mom\\" Pendanski, the rattlesnake-venom fingernail polish of the Warden, the bizarre heirarchy of the boys led by X-Ray, and a host of other characters including Zero, whom everyone believes is nothing.  As Stanley spends time at Camp Green Lake, he learns more and more about himself and discovers that the camp really was successful in building his character...<br />I loved this book.  It was a fast, fun read with quirky characters and four different stories tied together into one.  The main story is the one of Stanley Yelnats IV and his experiences at camp, but we also follow the story of Stanley Yelnats I who was robbed in the middle of the desert and survived by using \\"God's thumb\\", there is Stanley's \\"no-good-dirty-rotten-pig-stealing great-great-grandfather\\" who got him into this mess in the first place, and the sad story of Kissin' Kate Barlow, the notorious outlaw who robbed Stanley Yelnats I.  These stories are creatively woven together and Sachar adds lots of humor, sometimes dark humor, but the stories are quite funny all the same.  Readers will love Sachar's characters and will be fascinated with the setting.  If you are looking for something out of the norm to read that is well written and just plain fun, look no further!ny all the same.  Readers will love Sachar's characters and will be fascinated with the setting.  If you are looking for something out of the norm to read that is well written and just plain fun, look no further!	2003-04-16
US	46905518	R1J9KJQWXVQFAD	0312278225	538415080	Dead Guy's Stuff	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Absolute Must Have for Mystery Lovers!	Dead Guy's Stuff continues the story of Jane Wheel (Killer Stuff), an antique &quot;picker&quot; who has made a career of going through old stuff and finding treasures to sell to dealers.  However, Jane is not that successful yet because she has a hard time letting go of her finds and she has a tendency to buy memories instead of valuable items, such as Elmira's old schoolwork.  Needless to say, Jane is ecstatic when she finds a whole room of 1950s saloon ephemera - just what she needs to redecorate her mother and father's tavern in Kankakee.  She loves the Bakelite darts and dice, advertisements from long-defunct liquor suppliers, old bar games, bowling trophies, old photographs and a severed finger in a jar?  Jane immediately calls her friend Detective Oh and asks him what she should do.  Oh graciously comes over and takes a look, but, while a little macabre, it isn't as if Jane found a dead body or anything.  So Jane tucks the finger away in the glove compartment of her car and heads for home to redecorate.  There she finds the dead body of her parents' former landlord - with a finger that is almost completely cut off.  Jane is positive that there is a link between her finger and the dead guy.  Now she just has to find it while dealing with her parent's attempts to keep their past secret, decorating her friend Tim's kitchen for a house show, rooting through the dead guy's three houses of stuff, her mother's kidnapping, her friend's suicide and a fascinating group of little old ladies...<br />Once again, Sharon Fiffer has presented readers with an absolutely fabulous book.  Those who were captivated by her attention to detail and great characters in Killer Stuff will not be disappointed with this follow up.  Again, there are great details about antiques and collectibles, as well as fascinating glimpses into small town life in Kankakee.  Jane Wheel's associations with her fellow characters are always entertaining and her mother is a real kick.  Don't wait for this one to come out in paperback - it is well worth the cost of the hardbound price!one to come out in paperback - it is well worth the cost of the hardbound price!	2003-04-16
US	46905518	R1RC6VO21GBEL7	0962710628	880239148	Licensee Survival Guide.	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Great Beginning Reference for Licensees!	I have been looking for a book to give me some more information about licensing from a licensee's standpoint for a while now, and Jack Revoyr's is the only one that I have been able to find - and it is out of print!  There seems to be many books out there for licensors, but nothing for licensees.  Licensee Survival Guide contains sections on the values of licensing, the risks, some basic trademark information, the many types of licenses available, what kind of license to get, how to be a good licensee, the licensing process, the licensing agreement, obligations of the licensee &amp; licensor, royalty information, licensee record keeping, distribution, etc.<br />Jack Revoyr is certainly knowledgeable about the subject, but, as with many experts, he forgets that many people are not familiar with some of the basics of licensing.  I found quite a bit of the information to be helpful, but a lot of the information is so general that it is hard to see where it fits into the process.  I also thought that the author spent quite a bit of time trying to discourage the reader from becoming a licensee.  He probably was not trying to do so, but he points out a great deal of problems and risks that you may take, which is good information to have, but there is a negative undertone to the text.  I also would have liked to have seen some recommendations as to where to go for further information, whether through articles, journals or whatever.  Also, be aware that this book was published in 1995 so the author spends quite a bit of time going through brick and mortar stores and there is little to nothing on the internet.  Still, there just isn't much out there on this subject so if you are looking for a good overview of the licensing process from a licensee standpoint, this is a good place to begin so find a used copy and keep it.	2003-04-16
US	46905518	R1INW6GDDHUWWK	0451207246	862475559	How to Murder a Millionaire (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	64	65	N	N	Smart, Sophisticated, Sexy New Mystery Series!	Nora Blackbird's parents left the US for a sunny, tax evaders resort leaving Nora's sister Emma with the art collection and her other sister Libby with the furniture collection.  All Nora gets is the property that has been in her family for generations - and a two million dollar tax bill.  For the first time in her life, Nora, a former socialite, is forced to *gasp* work.  Rory, an old friend of the family who owns a Philadelphia newspaper takes pity on her and hires her as a society page columnist.  This is not quite as much fun as it could have been because Kitty, the reigning queen of the society column, believes that Nora is trying to take over her job and gives her all of the bad assignments - like the opening of the monster truck dealership on land that Nora was forced to sell.  I mean, its bad enough that Nora sold land that had been in her family for generations, but she sold it to the son of a rumored New Jersey crime boss who sells trucks!  To top off her day, Nora discovers the body of her employer and family friend at a party that evening.  Nora quickly realizes that the police are out of their depth when it comes to dealing with high society and tries her best to help them out.  However, she keeps getting distracted by her flaky sisters and their problems, a slimy art dealer, and the bone-melting come ons she can barely resist from Abruzzo, the suspected crime boss...<br />First of all, in case the synopsis didn't tip you off, this book is not for the hard-core mystery lover.  It is kind of a cross between a romance and a mystery novel and fits quite neatly into the \\"mystery cozy\\" genre.  This is a fun, fast read for those who enjoy their mysteries filled with comments about clothes, food, romance, socialites, art and weird families.  Nancy Martin has a nice, smooth writing style and the plot unfolds nicely.  I also loved her characters.  I mean, where else do you find a reclusive billionaire who collects erotic art, a brother-in-law who dresses up in full Confederate regalia for formal occasions, two flaky, funny sisters, a baby-faced detective who is a lot sharper than he seems, and hosts of other entertaining characters.  Sound like fun?  This book definitely is!ull Confederate regalia for formal occasions, two flaky, funny sisters, a baby-faced detective who is a lot sharper than he seems, and hosts of other entertaining characters.  Sound like fun?  This book definitely is!	2003-04-16
US	46905518	R1H017LQXO8Z0T	0515132896	37978648	Heart Mate (Celta's HeartMates, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	He Knew That She Was Meant to Be His...	All his life, Rand T'Ash had looked forward to meeting his HeartMate, someone who would bring peace, light and love to his life.  T'Ash knew that he was a little rough around the edges and that he didn't quite fit into the noble society, but he was working on it.  Years before he had carefully crafted his HeartGift, a necklace that should find and attract his HeartMate.  It had been on display in his jewelry store window for a long time, but no one had yet come to claim it...<br />Danith Mallow was irresistibly drawn to the beautiful necklace on display in T'Ash's shop, but she was wary of T'Ash himself and believed that he had cast a spell on her to make her want him.  In a world where a person's Flair, or magical gifts, determined their rank and role in society, Danith knew that she could never be T'Ash's equal.  She had little or no pyschic ability and resigned herself to a comfortable life with another man.  However, T'Ash refused to let Danith distance herself from him and saw her rejection as a challenge.  He slowly changes her perceptions and helps her discover her own powerful pyschic abilites.  He believes that she will turn to him if he is patient and that it is their destiny to be together.  But will Danith have the courage to accept her place by his side?<br />I was pleasantly surprised by this book as it is very well written and actually has a story, not just a series of sensual scenes strung together.  Robin Owens has created her own world with new rules, new roles and plenty of fun new characters.  T'Ash is a typical brooding male and Danith is a strong female, she just doesn't know if she is quite strong enough to match him or if she wants to be strong enough to match him.  There are also plenty of amusing supporting characters including T'Holly, T'Ash's charming best friend, Tinne, an impulsive boy about to take his first Passage, and, my favorite, Xanth, T'Ash's irrascible Fam (cat) who has the best lines in the whole book!  The only thing that could have made this book better would be to make the ending a little less rushed and to have T'Ash and Danith come together a little sooner.  But, this book is well worth buying and reading - you will enjoy yourself immensely!ld have made this book better would be to make the ending a little less rushed and to have T'Ash and Danith come together a little sooner.  But, this book is well worth buying and reading - you will enjoy yourself immensely!	2003-04-02
US	46905518	RZCZPWV9H0ILP	087337536X	946309806	Getting Permission: How to License and Clear Copyrighted Materials Online and Off	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Excellent Advice & Guidance!	If you want to use copyrighted material for your own purposes, you need to get permission from the owners first. If you don't, you could find yourself stuck in a costly lawsuit. This book, Getting Permission, shows you how to get through the permissions process. This guide is very readable and will give you a basic introduction to the permissions process, the public domain or free stuff, how to figure out and find someone who owns a copyright, what constitutes fair use, how to get academic permissions, license and merchandise agreements, what a trademark is and how to use them, how to use a fictional character, website permissions, as well as forms and a CD rom. The book covers information on music, photos, text, characters, and much more. Nolo also gives helpful suggestions as to where to go for more information on a specific topic. I found that this guide was a great introduction to getting permission for just about anything. This book will be a wonderful resource guide for years because the information contained therein is easy to understand and reliable.	2003-04-02
US	46905518	R3T4M4USQ8K8WD	0515135216	569070882	Dark Symphony (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 9)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	He Became Her Secret Obsession...	Byron was Carpathian, a species as old as time.  He could shift shape and soar high, run with the wolves, hunt those who threatened the innocent.  But he was also a gem finder, a sophisticated man of the arts, and in self-imposed exile from his people for endangering his Prince.  He was not a natural hunter, but he forced himself to become one to atone for his mistakes.  Byron believed that he would live the rest of his life alone, for, without his lifemate, it would be so easy to give into dark whispers of temptation.  So easy to become wholly evil, a vampire or member of the undead, as so many of his kind had chosen to do.  But then he heard the music...<br />Antonietta Scarletti played like an angel and was world-renowned for her beautiful compositions.  She ran the powerful Scarletti empire and was the heart of the emotional Scarletti family.  For those who knew her, it was easy to forget that she was blind, scarred in a terrible accident that claimed the lives of her parents when she was a young girl.  Byron entered her life suddenly, saving her beloved grandfather from what surely would have been a fatal car accident.  She would often sense Byron's silent presence in the room where she played music, beautiful and passionate music to call to him.  Byron quickly became her secret obsession.  Byron was determined to give her time to adjust to the idea of becoming Carpathian before he brought her over and had courted her in the way of humans for months, but when Antonietta was poisoned and kidnapped, Byron felt he had no choice but to claim her as his own...<br />Dark Symphony is quite different from other books in Feehan's Dark series, especially in her hero, Byron.  Byron is much more patient, more human like and not afraid to admit that he has weaknesses.  He still is fiercely possessive and easily riled, but he is not a natural hunter - he drove himself to become one.  Antonietta is a fun heroine to read about.  She is handicapped, but refuses to see herself as such and so she isn't.  I enjoyed reading about a strong, capable woman who just happened to be blind.  Antonietta's family was also very interesting in that they all had flaws and they made mistakes, but each fit into the family as a whole and were defended from outsiders.  It is interesting that Feehan chose to start the book with Antonietta and Byron knowing each other and already trusting each other.  It is almost like we joined them in the middle of their courtship instead of at the beginning.  This was nice because the book didn't end when Antonietta chose to join Byron as Carpathian as many of the other books do.  If you have enjoyed the other books in the Dark series, this one will be a fun new addition to your collection!s such and so she isn't.  I enjoyed reading about a strong, capable woman who just happened to be blind.  Antonietta's family was also very interesting in that they all had flaws and they made mistakes, but each fit into the family as a whole and were defended from outsiders.  It is interesting that Feehan chose to start the book with Antonietta and Byron knowing each other and already trusting each other.  It is almost like we joined them in the middle of their courtship instead of at the beginning.  This was nice because the book didn't end when Antonietta chose to join Byron as Carpathian as many of the other books do.  If you have enjoyed the other books in the Dark series, this one will be a fun new addition to your collection!	2003-04-02
US	46905518	R3G3DKDYPIMM30	0439474299	110882952	Children of the Red King #1: Midnight for Charlie Bone	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Charlie Doesn't Want to Believe It...	Charlie's aunts had given up all hope that he would show signs of having some of the mysterious and magical powers of the Red King, which are passed down through his descendants.  Some of the gifts are evil and some are good.  Some of them turn up unexpectedly...as in the case of Charlie Bone.  After years of living life as a normal little boy, he begins to hear people talking in photographs.  His horrible aunts are delighted to discover that he takes after their side of the family.  They immediately enroll him in the gloomy Bloor's Academy for gifted children, forcing Charlie to leave his best friend behind.  Still, Charlie tries to make the best of it and is able to make some new friends at his academy.  But Charlie quickly becomes embroiled in the search for a stolen baby whom no one wants him to find.  As Charlie struggles to master his magical gifts and to fit in with his fellow classmates, he begins to uncover old clues to more than one mystery...<br />Midnight for Charlie Bone was an absolutely delightful children's book following in the wake of Harry Potter's popularity.  I am not saying that it is a Harry Potter copycat, no indeed.  The plot is quite fresh and original and Charlie was a great character.  Jenny Nimmo did such a wonderful job at capturing how a little boy thinks and it was really fun to see how Charlie felt about everything that was going on and how he puzzled through old clues.  All of the characters were well developed and the plot was intriguing.  If you are looking for a book that you will love almost as much as Harry Potter then this is the book for you!  (If you don't want to pay extra for the library binding, look for it at your local school's book fair in paperback.)	2003-04-02
US	46905518	R2NJLDCUN7B4VC	0553585177	571131857	Fires of the Faithful	Books	4	0	0	N	N	She Was the Last Hope of a Dying Land...	Eliana is a dedicated music student at a conservatory.  Her greatest dream is to become a member of an ensemble to perform in the prestigious Imperial Court.  Although Eliana is caught up in her music and her studies, she cannot help but worry about how the famine that is ravaging the land is affecting her family at home.  When she gets a new roommate, Mira, she begins to learn of the old religion.  For the first time in her life, she begins to doubt the Fedeli, a fearsome religious order who rules the kingdom and is systematically stamping out all traces of the land's old beliefs.  But Mira is not exactly what she seems... there are powerful people looking for her and they are not afraid to kill to get what or who they want...<br />When one of her friends is brutally murdered and Mira disappears, Eliana no longer sees any point in making music.  She leaves the conservatory and tries to return home.  However, when she arrives at her village, it is empty and all that is left are scattered bones.  There are rumors that the survivors of the massacre were taken to a concentration camp on the borders of the kingdom.  Desperate to regain some sense of normality in her life, Eliana goes to the concentration camp and soon finds herself the focal point for a rebellion centered around the old religious ways.  Although she doesn't know how to lead, the people are desperate for someone who will be their leader, no matter how young or inexperienced...<br />I liked Fires of the Faithful, but I didn't love it.  I felt that I was just starting to connect with Eliana as a music student when she was abruptly ripped out of that world and became some political/military leader in a completely different place.  The transition between the two worlds that Eliana habitated was just too abrupt.  However, Kritzer's characters were engaging and she has quite a few of them for the reader to get to know so there are always side plots that seem to make more sense than the main plot of the book.  The plot was a little forced and a little predictable, but the author does have a few surprises up her sleeve.  One of the most surprising things about the book was the focus on religion.  It was somewhat distasteful at times as there were too many direct comparisons between the Fedeli and the Roman Catholic church.  The setting definitely has the feel of medieval Italy with many Italian sounding names and places.  Another surprise was the fact that Eliana is a lesbian and is trying to deal with her attraction to other females.  Nothing really happens, but it was a surprise.  Anyway, this is a good book if you are looking for a little light fantasy where the heroine is the perfect person to take over and win against impossible odds.  You know the kind I am talking about.  Still, the book is well written and I think that I will go give the sequel a shot...The plot was a little forced and a little predictable, but the author does have a few surprises up her sleeve.  One of the most surprising things about the book was the focus on religion.  It was somewhat distasteful at times as there were too many direct comparisons between the Fedeli and the Roman Catholic church.  The setting definitely has the feel of medieval Italy with many Italian sounding names and places.  Another surprise was the fact that Eliana is a lesbian and is trying to deal with her attraction to other females.  Nothing really happens, but it was a surprise.  Anyway, this is a good book if you are looking for a little light fantasy where the heroine is the perfect person to take over and win against impossible odds.  You know the kind I am talking about.  Still, the book is well written and I think that I will go give the sequel a shot...	2003-03-31
US	46905518	R2AI392IKOX6N5	031298328X	650761638	Full Tilt (Max Holt)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Lukewarm Romantic "Thriller"	Full Tilt begins with Jamie Swift wondering how she can keep her small town newspaper alive.  She has a bigshot investor named Maximillian Holt who has suddenly decided to drop in and see how things are going.  Unbeknownst to her, her hotshot billionaire investor is her best friend, Deedee's, brother.  When Max and Jamie first meet, Max doesn't introduce himself properly and Jamie mistakenly presumes that she has been kidnapped by a psychopath who talks to his car.  She quickly discovers Max's small deception and grows to be good friends with his car's computer, an artificial intelligence like no other with hormones, a sexy Marilyn Monroe voice and the unlikely name of Muffin.  For some reason, Max is attracted to the largely antagonistic and sarcastic Jamie and is determined to make her newspaper a success.  Unfortunately, Max and Jamie dig a little too deeply into the town of Beaumont and have to deal with inept assassins, a bloodthirsty veteran, Jamie's all too perfectly proper fiance, and Deedee's pre-menipausal hot/cold flashes...<br />This was the first book that I read by either author and I must say that I was quite disappointed as both authors are spoken of quite highly (aside from this page, of course).  I didn't particularly care for any of the characters in the book and so I never was in suspense as to what would happen.  An attraction is hinted at between Max and Jamie, but it is that lukewarm \\"I'm engaged to another man\\" scenario and I really cannot see why someone like Max, who can have anyone he wants, would be interested in Jamie.  I wasn't really surprised by the \\"surprise\\" ending because it was really the only way to end the story so the plot was a little thin.  There were some entertaining moments, such as when Deedee's gay assistant gets knocked on the head and turns into a beer-loving, dirty guy hanging out with the other wrestlers, but they were few and far between.  Alas, the authors are planning a sequel.  I really don't think that I will be tempted to pick it up and see what happens...tempted to pick it up and see what happens...	2003-03-19
US	46905518	RX18G86XFNV9P	0373262175	752488800	The Julius House (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Not as Good as Previous Books, But Still A Great Author!	The Julius House is the fourth book in the Aurora Teagarden series.  Aurora &quot;Roe&quot; has finally recovered from her injuries incurred at the end of the last book and is happily engaged to Martin Bartell, her handsome, older, richer boyfriend.  For her wedding gift, Martin buys her the Julius house, the perfect house for her.  Many people think she is crazy for living there due to the sudden disappearance of the Julius family who used to live there.  Roe doesn't worry about it in the slightest and concentrates on glorying in her happily engaged status.  She loves being the bride instead of the bridesmaid and pushes any doubts about her soon-to-be-husband aside.  When they return from their perfect honeymoon in England, Roe settles in to redecorate and get settled.  She is surprised when Martin informs her that two of his friends are down on their luck and that they will be moving into the apartment over the garage.  Still, Roe is in love and excited to meet some of Martin's friends and does her best to welcome them.  She soon discovers, however, that they are really there to guard her.  When pressured, Martin confesses that he is a gunrunner in South America and that he is always worried about retaliation.  To take her mind off of this confession, Roe decides that she is going to find out what happened to the Julius family and drags her bodyguard along for the ride.  She soon discovers that sometimes it is better to let secrets remain buried...<br />I admit that the whole Roe/Martin wedding was a little contrived, but Roe really has wanted to get married all of her life and is extremely flattered that such an attractive, wealthy gentleman would be in love with her.  It was fun to see Roe's thought processes as she dealt with extreme changes and challenges in her new life.  I quite enjoyed the whole Julius family subplot and, though the ending was a little bit too shocking, Roe's whole investigation was quite logical and shows how one determined person can often put clues together that other people missed.  As with the her other books, Charlaine Harris offers the reader a host of interesting supporting characters, many amusing details about the mystery and a fun, fast read for those who enjoy this type of genre.  I feel that Harris' other mystery series starring Lily Bard (Shakespeare set) is stronger and her Dead Until Dark series is cleverer, but anything that Harris writes is worth reading!n put clues together that other people missed.  As with the her other books, Charlaine Harris offers the reader a host of interesting supporting characters, many amusing details about the mystery and a fun, fast read for those who enjoy this type of genre.  I feel that Harris' other mystery series starring Lily Bard (Shakespeare set) is stronger and her Dead Until Dark series is cleverer, but anything that Harris writes is worth reading!	2003-03-19
US	46905518	RJAJTARESYRRZ	0141310855	343863123	Dancer	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lovely Young Adult Novel About Ballet	Dancing is sixteen-year-old Stephanie's whole life and she cannot imagine her life without ballet.  Ballet class is the only place where she can go and forget about everything on the outside and just concentrate on her love for dance.  Stephanie's life starts to unravel a bit when a new Russian girl moves into her area and is cast as Sleeping Beauty, a role that everyone agrees should have been Stephanie's since she has been dancing at the studio longer.  School is hard, too, because Stephanie doesn't fit in with the other kids.  She has a scholarship to go to a ritzy private school where her father is the janitor and just cringes everytime she passes him in the hallway.  She doesn't have many friends and cannot seem to understand why the rich kids are so weird.  When Vance, an African-American boy about her age, starts coming to her ballet class, she tries to befriend him, but really ends up becoming friends with his Aunt, Miss Winnie, who takes Stephanie under her wing and starts giving her extra lessons on Sundays.  This concerns Stephanie's parents who want her to scale back on her dancing so she can prepare to go to college and get a real career.  As she comes under more pressure at home, she turns to Miss Winnie to help her turn her dreams of becoming a professional dancer into reality.  In the process, she alienates herself from her parents and Vance.  Stephanie cannot understand why Vance doesn't love ballet as much as she does and why he doesn't try harder at auditions and for Miss Winnie at practices.  As Stephanie struggles to decide which path to follow, help comes to her in surprising places and she finally begins to grow up...<br />Dancer was a fun read with a little bit of romantic interest.  The characters were well developed and you really understood why Stephanie was acting the way she was and it was easy to remember what life was like at that age.  Stephanie did a lot of maturing in the novel and was eventually able to start making the right decisions on her own instead of relying on others to make decisions for her and then getting upset when their choices didn't match her dreams.  If you like dancing or ballet, you will really enjoy this novel.  I recommend it to anyone looking for a good book about dancing and/or growing up.ions on her own instead of relying on others to make decisions for her and then getting upset when their choices didn't match her dreams.  If you like dancing or ballet, you will really enjoy this novel.  I recommend it to anyone looking for a good book about dancing and/or growing up.	2003-03-19
US	46905518	RVBODAQQ2UYZE	0684196433	351630769	Three Bedrooms, One Corpse (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	One of the Most Amusing Mystery Writers Around!	Aurora Teagarden returns in the 3rd book in the hilarious mystery series.  Aurora is a short, respectible, 30-something single female in the small town of Lawrenceton.  She used to work at the library until she unexpectedly inherited a fortune from a friend.  Now she is footloose and fancy free with no job to tie her down, no boyfriend (due to a recent break up) and no money problems.  Too bad that she is bored to death.  Aurora decides that she needs something to do, so she starts learning about the real estate business from her mother, the best real estate agent in town.  When her mother asks her to go and open up an expensive home so that her wealthy new clients can take a look, Roe is agreeable and cheerfully sets off to show the home to the best of her ability.  Within an hour she has decided that the real estate business isn't for her, that the new guy in town, although quite a bit older is really hot and there is definitely some attraction there, and that, no matter how trashy in real life, no one deserves to be murdered and put on display in an empty house for someone to find.  When her friend's husband is accused of being the murderer, Roe feels that she has to intervene and find out what really happened.  Along the way she has to deal with her completely physical reaction to a gorgeous, wealthy older man, a cantankerous cat, shopping for a new home, and a disgruntled ex-employee of her new boyfriend who has started stalking her.  You know, the usual problems...<br />I thought that Three Bedrooms, One Corpse was quite entertaining and finished it in one sitting.  Charlaine Harris is a very talented author and, while there may have been a few small errors (which I didn't notice because I was too caught up in the story), she has a very smooth writing style that allows you to be amused and informed at the same time.  The plot moves quickly and there are several subplots that keep the reader involved with the characters.  Although I still enjoyed the Lily Bard/Shakespeare series and the Southern Vampire series more, I have grown quite fond of Aurora Teagarden and know that I will pick up anything that Charlaine Harris cares to write.  At the cheap price that these books are available for, why not treat yourself?Shakespeare series and the Southern Vampire series more, I have grown quite fond of Aurora Teagarden and know that I will pick up anything that Charlaine Harris cares to write.  At the cheap price that these books are available for, why not treat yourself?	2003-03-12
US	46905518	R2UX9K138SKLE2	0671015311	369794581	To Shield the Queen (Mystery at Queen Elizabeth I's Court)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Solid Historical Mystery Set in Elizabeth England	To Shield the Queen is the first book in the Ursula Blanchard mystery series by Fiona Buckley.  Ursula Blanchard had a difficult childhood.  She was born out of wedlock and forced into virtual servitude, along with her mother, in her aunt's and uncle's home.  Ursula cannot believe her good fortune when her cousin's handsome, wealthy suitor falls in love with her and elopes with her.  Unfortunately, Ursula's happiness is all too short lived as her husband dies from illness soon after the birth of their daughter.  Ursula cannot bear the thought of returning to her aunt & uncle's house, so she jumps at the chance to serve in court under Queen Elizabeth.  However, she soon finds that all of the court gilt and glitter is merely a thin veneer covering the deadly secrets and scandals underneath.  All of the court is atwitter over the attraction between the young, unmarried Queen Elizabeth and her master of the horse, Sir Robin Dudley, who is married.  Sir Dudley's wife, Amy, is gravely ill and rumors circulate that Sir Dudley and perhaps the Queen herself are trying to kill her.  The Queen is aware of the rumors, of course, and sends Ursula to Amy's country residence to watch over her and ensure that she lives as long as her breast cancer will allow.<br />Amy's is a strange household and Ursula suspects that there is some mischief afoot there.  Thus, it is no great to surprise to Ursula to return from the county fair to find Amy dead at the foot of the stairs.  Ursula dispatches her man, John Ward, to carry an urgent message to the Queen, but he is murdered on the road.  Ursula believes that these seemingly unrelated acts are somehow tied together and courageously sets off to track the owner of a piebald horse throughout the English countryside.  There, she uncovers another plot to overthrow the Queen, and the man she loves, Matthew de la Roche, is somehow involved...<br />I enjoyed the book for the most part, but found that it was a little slow at times.  I actually picked the book up and put it down several times so it took me a couple of months to read it instead of the usual couple of days.  I found Ursula to be a strong, yet feminine heroine who was faced with terrible decisions in the book, but made her decisions in a logical way.  I especially enjoyed seeing Ursula's thought processes as she linked information together and came to conclusions.  Quite fascinating era in history, also so there was plenty of action going on and mysteries such as this one may have actually occurred, who knows?  Anyway, if you enjoy historical mysteries or are looking for something a bit different to read in between modern mysteries, pick this one up, I think you will enjoy it.d the book up and put it down several times so it took me a couple of months to read it instead of the usual couple of days.  I found Ursula to be a strong, yet feminine heroine who was faced with terrible decisions in the book, but made her decisions in a logical way.  I especially enjoyed seeing Ursula's thought processes as she linked information together and came to conclusions.  Quite fascinating era in history, also so there was plenty of action going on and mysteries such as this one may have actually occurred, who knows?  Anyway, if you enjoy historical mysteries or are looking for something a bit different to read in between modern mysteries, pick this one up, I think you will enjoy it.	2003-03-12
US	46905518	RP5CXKNHMMQF	0515129747	705257604	Prince of Charming (Magical Love)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A Decent Read, but Nothing Exceptional...	Kate Carmichael's life has never been what you would call easy.  Her mother died after a two-year bout with cancer, her father disappeared twelve years ago to find fairy gold, and her guardian, her beloved Nana, has passed away.  Nana promised Kate that she would be taken care of, but without a will, Kate cannot prove that Nana was going to leave her Victorian house to Kate so she is being evicted.  Kate immediately starts searching the house and discovers that there is a name scrawled on the back of the portrait in the library.  And this is not just any portrait - this is the portrait of the most handsome, sexy man Kate has ever seen and whom she confided all of her troubles in when she was growing up.  Imagine her surprise when the portrait comes to life after she speaks the name \\"Robin Goodfellow\\".  Robin has been released from his imprisonment in the portrait, but discovers that he is now bound to Kate and cannot be further than 50 feet away from her.  As they cannot be separated, Kate is forced to help Robin find the gate of the Fae so that he can try and appease the anger of Titiania, the Faery queen who imprisoned him in the portrait.  And she better get rid of him fast or Kate will never be able to let Robin go...<br />I have to admit that I was disappointed in this book.  I love fantasy, love faeries and was excited to see them mixed up in a romantic setting, but this book fell far below my expectations.  The first third of the book deals with Kate and Robin both resisting their attraction to each other and insisting that they are \\"just friends\\".  They finally get together in the middle third and then Robin decides that he has to go back to being just friends during the last third so that their parting will be easier.  Robin and Kate kept falling into the same conversations and saying no then yes then no, etc.  The romance between the two main characters could have been better, the plot could have been better developed, in short, just borrow it from someone who was unfortunate enough to have purchased the dang thing and that way if you don't finish it you haven't lost anything but a little time.who was unfortunate enough to have purchased the dang thing and that way if you don't finish it you haven't lost anything but a little time.	2003-01-31
US	46905518	R1JBGXU2WNYE6W	0373261047	723760431	Real Murders (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	4	75	79	N	Y	Hobbies Can Be Murder...	Aurora \\"Roe\\" Teagarden is your typical librarian: thick, coke-bottle glasses, long brown hair, sensible librarian-like clothes, single, lives in a small town - you get the picture.  She doesn't have much of a social life and has resigned herself to having her Saturday nights free.  But, once a month, on Fridays, she meets with her fellow murder-mystery enthusaists and they discuss a real murder.  This Friday it is Roe's turn to present the case of the Wallaces.  She spent hours preparing and arrives a little early at the community center to make sure that everything is ready.  However, she cannot find the woman who unlocked the building, laid out the cookies and coffee and set up the chairs.  When she does find her, she wishes that she hadn't as she has been murdered and displayed in the kitchen in a gruesome fashion.  Even though Roe is in shock, she cannot help but notice that this murder bears a startling resemblance to the Wallace case.  Could one of the club members have taken their little hobby a little too far?  When other bodies begin to pile up, all copycat murders from famous past crimes, Roe cannot help but wonder which victim she resembles...<br />This is a fun, short, easy mystery read that I sat down and read in a couple of hours.  Roe is a likeable character whom most readers will relate to as being in her shoes at one time of their lives or another.  The other characters are also fairly interesting, but not as fully fleshed out as I would like.  Charlaine Harris doesn't really present the plot in such a way where you would be able to solve the mystery on your own with the clues presented so the ending has a surprise twist, but it was a nicely paced story.  The romantic subplots were a little perfunctory, but added a nice touch to the story.  I enjoyed this book, and I would recommend it, but I really loved the Lily Bard series and highly recommend those books.  Keep in mind that most of the Aurora Teagarden and Lily Bard books are out of print, but they are worth hunting down - especially the Lily Bard series!hey are worth hunting down - especially the Lily Bard series!	2003-01-30
US	46905518	RFYHBXCVA43BS	0373261365	757049397	A Bone to Pick (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	4	23	25	N	Y	Aurora Teagarden ~ Woman of Leisure...	When Aurora \\"Roe\\" Teagarden attends Jane Engle's funeral, it is more of a kindly gesture to someone who used to belong to the Real Murders club with her before the club stopped meeting.  Roe considered Jane a friend, but didn't really know her that well.  So she is startled when Jane's lawyer informs her that she is the heir to Jane's estate.  Suddenly, Roe goes from scraping by on a part-time librarian's salary to an heiress with a home, nice jewelry and $550,000 in savings.  Roe isn't quite sure what to do with herself and her newfound wealth.  However, she realizes that all is not as rosy as it seems when Jane's lawyer keeps hinting that there may be some problem that she needs to solve for Jane.  When Roe goes to check out Jane's house, it has been broken into and searched, but nothing was stolen.  Roe is determined to figure out the secret and eventually discovers Jane's hiding place and pulls out - a human skull.  As Roe waffles between handing the skull over to the police or tossing it in the river, her life takes a few unexpected turns.  Her ex-boyfriend, a police officer, moves in across the street with his new, very pregnant wife; she starts dating a minister; her mother gets married; her best friends gets engaged; her new neighbors are throwing welcoming parties for her; she inherits a cat who soon has kittens; everyone in town is gossiping about her relationship with Jane and her inheritance - the list goes on and on.  Needless to say, Roe doesn't spend a whole lot of time investigating who the owner of the skull was until the rest of the skeleton is discovered at the end of the street...<br />This is the second installment in the Aurora Teagarden mystery series (Real Murders is #1) and it is a pleasant, fast read.  I read it in a couple of hours and enjoyed it, but it isn't anything that is very memorable.  The mystery is rather lacking because we don't know who the skull belongs to, but Roe doesn't really go out and try to figure out who it belongs to - the answer just kind of falls in her lap at the end of the story.  Charlaine Harris does introduce some interesting new characters, however, and she keeps up with a few of the old ones from Real Murders so it was nice to see time passing in the small town.  I would have liked to see a bit more of a plot regarding the mystery side of this \\"mystery\\", but this book is more of a fiction novel with a little bit of a mystery on the side.  Still an enjoyable read, but I must say that the Lily Bard series (Shakespeare's Landlord, Shakespeare's Champion, etc.) is far superior than the Aurora Teagarden series.- the answer just kind of falls in her lap at the end of the story.  Charlaine Harris does introduce some interesting new characters, however, and she keeps up with a few of the old ones from Real Murders so it was nice to see time passing in the small town.  I would have liked to see a bit more of a plot regarding the mystery side of this \\"mystery\\", but this book is more of a fiction novel with a little bit of a mystery on the side.  Still an enjoyable read, but I must say that the Lily Bard series (Shakespeare's Landlord, Shakespeare's Champion, etc.) is far superior than the Aurora Teagarden series.	2003-01-30
US	46905518	R1KMVVMH9QSRS	0380781271	835446534	Mage Heart	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Mesmerizing Dark Fantasy!	Dion was just an ordinary young girl when she came to the attention of Michael, a great mage.  Michael bought her from her mother to see if it was possible to train a female to be a mage.  Michael completely takes over Dion's life as she has no other friends or teachers.  When Dion is older, she cannot really remember a life before Michael.  She knows that she has often been a disappointment to him and fears what will become of her now that Michael is dead.  There is no place for a female mage in Gallia and Dion doesn't really have any training as a healer, the only acceptable role for a female with magicial powers.  So it is a relief to the Dean of the School of Magic when the Duke calls on her to protect his favorite mistress, Kitten Avignon, from a necromancer with a grudge.<br />Dion tries to refuse, terrified that she will lose all that is left to her now - her unsullied reputation.  After all, how can she be seen to consort with the women of the \\"honey sisterhood\\" and not be thought a courtesan herself?  However, when the necromancer sends an assassin into the College of Magics to kill Dion, she has no choice but to move in with Kitten and accept the physical protection that that will provide her.  Dion is ill prepared for the world of political intrigue in which she finds herself and struggles to fit Kitten's view of the world and Michael's view together.  But Dion has a bigger problem, she has somehow called a Demon to her and the Demon will do anything to cross over into Dion's world where innocent prey abounds.  Dion both fears and desires the demon's power, but she knows that to use demon magic is the worst kind of necromancy.  Matters are further complicated when she meets the mesmerizing Andre Gregorov, a sophisticated foreigner who claims to be passionately in love with her.  But who is he really and why does he want her?  Dion soon discovers that nothing and no one is what it appears.  Can she have the confidence in herself to make the right choices and to use her great magical gift to protect those most important to her?<br />I thought that the book started off a little slow, but once Dion moved into Kitten's house, the plot seemed to move along faster.  Also, I really enjoyed the romance/attraction between Dion and Andre and wish that that had been introduced sooner in the book, but I understand that Dion's character needed to be developed to a certain point before Andre could be introduced.  The plot was quite original and the world that Jane Routley introduces the reader to was simply stunning in its realistic details.  Politics, art, religion, all intertwine in the complicated relationships that we see in our own world today.  Nothing is simple and nothing is easy in this world and everything becomes a shade of gray instead of the black and white that Dion is looking for.  A very entertaining read - highly recommended for all who love fantasy!and to use her great magical gift to protect those most important to her?<br />I thought that the book started off a little slow, but once Dion moved into Kitten's house, the plot seemed to move along faster.  Also, I really enjoyed the romance/attraction between Dion and Andre and wish that that had been introduced sooner in the book, but I understand that Dion's character needed to be developed to a certain point before Andre could be introduced.  The plot was quite original and the world that Jane Routley introduces the reader to was simply stunning in its realistic details.  Politics, art, religion, all intertwine in the complicated relationships that we see in our own world today.  Nothing is simple and nothing is easy in this world and everything becomes a shade of gray instead of the black and white that Dion is looking for.  A very entertaining read - highly recommended for all who love fantasy!	2003-01-24
US	46905518	R2OEJZPI1C0V6T	0312262280	532012809	Shakespeare's Trollop (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Welcome Back to Shakespeare...	For someone who doesn't like to get involved in other people's affairs, Lily Bard seems to have a knack for being in the wrong place at the wrong time.  In book #4 of Charlaine Harris' superb Lily Bard mystery series, Lily discovers lifelong Shakespeare resident Deedra Dean murdered inside a car parked in a woodsy area outside of town.  Lily quickly becomes a suspect when it is discovered that Deedra died of a severe blow to the chest - a blow that could only have been delivered by a martial arts expert.  The sheriff becomes even more suspicious regarding her involvement when Deedra's mother asks Lily to help her clean Deedra's apartment, but Lily is determined not to get involved this time and fully intends to leave the case in Sheriff Marta Schuster's capable hands.  However, Deedra's notoriously promiscuous lifestyle provides an extensive list of suspects, but very few clues.  Much as Lily disliked Deedra in life, she feels that she has no choice but to resume the role of amateur detective and join the investigation.<br />Once again, a fabulous book from the superb author, Charlaine Harris.  With every book Lily Bard and the other characters who reside in Shakespeare become more fleshed out and more entertaining.  Lily is really starting to develop into a real person again after being violently assaulted years before and it is fun to see her change.  I thought that the mystery plot this time was wonderful and had a nice little surprise twist at the end.  For anyone who enjoys mysteries, I cannot recommend this series enough!	2003-01-23
US	46905518	R3EQD8QYZ6PNOS	0312277628	523336057	Shakespeare's Counselor (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 5)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	A Seamless Story That Delves Below the Surface...	Lily Bard is back in her fifth mystery in Shakespeare's Counselor.  Lily is a woman with a complicated past, to put it mildly, and is determined to overcome her problems on her own.  However, when she awakens in the middle of the night and finds that she is trying to strangle her lover, Jack Leeds, she decides that he may have a point when he suggests that she needs some outside assistance.  As coincidence has it, Jack discovers a flier outside of the store that announces a rape-counseling group for women right in little-ole Shakespeare.  Lily is less than enthusiastic about sharing details of the experience that shattered her life, but promises Jack that she will give it a try.  As it turns out, Lily discovers that she is getting more problems instead of help when she goes to her group meeting and finds a woman dead, killed in a bone-chilling fashion and deliberately left on display with a twisted message.  It appears that Shakespeare's counselor, Tamsin Lynd, has more than few secrets of her own.  But who could be so obsessed with Tamsin that they follow her from town to town, making threatening phone calls, leaving messages and dead animals on her porch and now killing for her?<br />This 5th book in the Lily Bard mystery series was absolutely riveting.  Lily came a long way in book #4, but she really seems to be coming into her own in this book.  She and Jack, her boyfriend, are still a hot item, but their relationship is still undefined.  Charlaine Harris introduces some more characters who reside in Shakespeare that are absolutely hilarious and are well-worth getting to know.  I can hardly wait for the next book in the series to come out!  Charlaine Harris has created one of my absolute favorite mystery series in the Shakespeare/Lily Bard tales.  Highly recommended for anyone and everyone!	2003-01-23
US	46905518	R2H9N4M1ORO7Z5	0440234999	966877476	Shakespeare's Christmas (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	The Holidays Can Be Murder...	This is the third book in the Lily Bard mystery series and it takes the reader out of Shakespeare, Arkansas to Lily's hometown.  Lily is less than thrilled about going home for the holidays, especially when her sister's wedding is involved.  She loves her family, but things just haven't been the same since she was violently assaulted years ago.  To add to her notoriety, Lily manages to nab a purse natcher within a few days of her arrival and then is the first to walk in on a brutal double homicide.  Before the buzz even begins to die down, Lily's detective boyfriend Jack Leeds shows up at the wedding rehearsal.  Much as Lily would like to think that Jack showed up to offer her his moral support in her time of need, she knows better.  Jack is investigating an eight-year-old kidnapping and the trail leads right to Lily's hometown - and her sister's widowed fiance.  With only three days before the wedding and corpses piling up all over town, Lily must work fast to clean up the messy case before her sister commits...marriage!<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I think Charlaine Harris should be congratulated for her fantastic characterization and plot pacing.  Many reviewers critized this book for having Lily be too soft and/or too much of her and too little of the mystery.  They seem to have completely missed the point.  Lily is softer in this book because she is at home and is different there.  Everyone acts slightly differently when they go home, especially when they have been away for a long time, as Lily has been.  As far as there being too much Lily and too little mystery, I thought that this book gave the reader a chance to learn a little bit more about Lily and what makes her tick.  When you are reading a novel that is from a first person point of view, you should expect to hear a lot about the lead character - that is the whole point of having a lead character.  Anyway, enough complaining - I just don't understand why everyone didn't love the book as much as I did!  Buy this one while it is in print - it is a keeper!I did!  Buy this one while it is in print - it is a keeper!	2003-01-23
US	46905518	R17F37VRF7QAYE	0440224217	176538816	Shakespeare's Champion (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Wonderful Mystery That Never Should Have Gone Out of Print	Shakespeare's Champion is the second book in the Lily Bard series, but can be read as stand alone if you should be so lucky to find this book first.  This book finds Lily still cleaning away and uncovering more secrets about the residents of Shakespeare than she ever really wanted to know.  However, Lily has quite a few secrets of her own so she knows how to keep her mouth shut.  When she isn't cleaning, Lily is busy going to the gym where she works on bodybuilding and karate.  One morning, on her way to an early workout, she discovers a fellow gym member, dead, with a barbell across his throat.  Lily desperately wants to believe that it was an accident, but there are too many other suspicious \\"accidents\\" including a young black man's unsolved murder, the bombing of a church, and many others.  It appears that most of the crimes are racially motivated, but Del is a white bodybuilder who works in the sporting goods store.  How does his death fit in with the others?  Lily unwillingly involves herself in investigating the crime and uses her unique vantage point and circumstances to collect information.  She quickly discovers that there is something fishy in Shakespeare.  Lily doesn't want to suspect one of the longtime residents, but there are only so many newcomers to town.  So when Lily discovers one dark stranger showing up at the most unlikely places, such as her client's closet, it is only natural that her suspicions would fall on him...<br />I really enjoyed this book and highly recommend it to anyone who likes mysteries and/or tough female characters.  Charlaine Harris' characters are wonderful.  They are quixotic combinations of practicality, spotenaity, weaknesses and strengths.  I felt that I could identify with most of the characters immediately upon meeting them.  It was also wonderful to get the start of a love story for Lily.  True, she dabbled in a little romance in Shakespeare's Landlord (book #1 in the series), but she has a serious shot at a relationship in this book.  The plot was well drawn and, I must admit, the final chapter of the book was a surprise.  If you enjoyed the first one, you will love the second one.  Just be aware that this is by far the most expensive book to own in the set.  It isn't hard to find - just expensive!ip in this book.  The plot was well drawn and, I must admit, the final chapter of the book was a surprise.  If you enjoyed the first one, you will love the second one.  Just be aware that this is by far the most expensive book to own in the set.  It isn't hard to find - just expensive!	2003-01-14
US	46905518	R2T8Q0B5KIV1MF	0618258116	49774038	Creatures of The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings Movie Tie-In)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Good Introductory Guide for Children and Adults	Although this is the official movie guide for children to the Two Towers, I found that it was helpful for adults who are not Lord of the Rings fans and/or have not read any of the books by Tolkien.  It is lushly illustrated with gorgeous photos of all of the people/creatures in The Fellowship of the Ring and The Two Towers.  There are also a few photos of how they developed CGI characters such as the cave troll and Sauron.  Underneath each photograph is a sentence or two explaining who the person/creature is and how they fit into the story.  The wording and the brevity of the descriptions make it perfect for younger readers or those looking for a quick and dirty introduction to the characters of Middle Earth including Hobbits, Ents, Easterlings, Haradrim, Uruk-Hai, Gollum, the Watcher in the Water, Dwarves, Elves, Wizards/Istari, Balrog, Gwaihir, and many more.  The book also comes with a free fold out enlarged picture of Gandalf confronting the Balrog in Moria.  I would recommend this book for those who are not very familiar with The Lord of the Rings trilogy and for children ages 8 and up.  It is very short at app. 60 pages (most of which is taken up by pictures) and so is a great introduction.  However, if you are a Tolkien fan and familiar with the stories or saw the first movie, there is nothing new for you here.	2003-01-10
US	46905518	R32MFI2HJJ7NSX	0671319949	422256350	Feral Darkness	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Different Type of Fantasy/Alternate Reality	When she was a little girl, Brenna Fallon loved her pet dog more than anything. She couldn't bear the thought of his death, but she knew that he was getting old. She read about an ancient god named Mars Nodens, who was said to favor dogs and decided that she would ask him to let her dog live longer. Unfortunately, her prayer was answered...<br />Years later, Brenna discovers that she opened a gateway of power by a spring on her property - a gateway that can be used for both great good and great evil. To survive, she must rely on her wits and follow her instincts to strengthen the gateway as a power for good. She also finds assistance from a mysterious stranger, Masera, whom she is unwillingly attracted to. But her greatest helpmate is a puzzling stray dog named Druid who becomes far more than a faithful companion...<br />This book was a fun find for me as it is different than your typical fantasy. I like dogs, but do not own one, and it was very entertaining to hear about Brenna's job as a dog groomer and all of the problems that she has to deal with every day. The book is packed with interesting characters and I enjoyed meeting all of them. The plot was pretty well-paced, it seemed to kind of stall in a couple of spots, but it kept me going and I read it in one sitting. My only complaint is that Durgin spent quite a bit of time on a debate between Christian religions (believing in a God) and pagan religions where there are many gods. The main character, Brenna, struggles with believing in both and visits the priest at the church a couple of times, has inner debates, etc. It was a little distasteful to me, but nothing bad, of course. Still, it caught me unpleasantly by surprise and I just want to offer a fair warning!	2003-01-10
US	46905518	RS3YMPI7VRHW2	0595125638	67034010	The Blood Waltz	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Good First Novel, But Less Than I Expected	The Blood Waltz begins with Selena D'Agostino feeling burnt out and frustrated with her writing career.  She is a popular author of young adult books, but her last two books were not as well received.  Her agent suggests that she take a break.  Selena is not sure where she will go when she receives an unexpected invitation to visit the DeMontforts in their English castle.  It seems that the DeMontforts are distantly related to her and would like to meet her.  When Selena arrives at the castle, nothing is as she expected.  All of the servants are mute, her &quot;aunt&quot; Eugenia hardly has any time to spend with her, she doesn't meet her cousins for a couple of days, no one eats dinner with her, they have no modern conveniences - what is going on?  When Selena finally meets her two gorgeous cousins - Philip and Kieran, she finds them vying for her affections.  Philip is very handsome, but she finds that it is the frustrating Kieran who haunts her dreams.  Before too long, Selena starts &quot;seeing&quot; things, discovers that her mail is being confiscated, and that someone doesn't want her to leave...<br />I was excited to get this book because most of the reviews were so positive and made it sound like a great gothic romance.  First off, I would like to say that I enjoyed the characters.  They are not fully fleshed out, &quot;real&quot; characters, but the reader will empathize with Selena and will fall in love with Kieran as the book progresses.  The setting was fine, the plot had real possibilities, but I felt that, as a whole, the book was kind of flat and shallow.  Nothing was treated with any depth.  The author had some great ideas, but she would just introduce them and never follow through.  My biggest complaint is that the book ends abruptly.  One reviewer described it as a cliff-hanger, but I would say that the author just decided to stop writing and call it a day.  This was a bit startling at the end of the book, especially since she kept putting her characters through the same senarios over and over again throughout the book.  I think that this author has a lot of potential, though, and look forward to giving her another chance on her next book.racters through the same senarios over and over again throughout the book.  I think that this author has a lot of potential, though, and look forward to giving her another chance on her next book.	2003-01-02
US	46905518	R3CVWTWHP6MW46	075640035X	135835309	The Magickers: The Magickers #1	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Fun, Harry-Potter .....	When Jason Adrian is injured during soccer tryouts, he is devastated that he cannot go to soccer camp with his best friend.  He was certain that he was doomed to spending summer eating Jell-O with his grandmother.  But his English teacher unexpectedly comes to his rescue and he is off to Camp Ravenwyng.  His overprotective stepmother cannot really find anything wrong with a camp for creative and imaginative students, so Jason finds himself on a funky little bus with a small group of kids and two weird-looking counselors.  This bus ride is Jason's first tip-off that Ravenwyng isn't an ordinary camp - not when they suddenly went from nowhere to somewhere and night and day became totally confused in the process.  Jason quickly finds that this is just the beginning.  All of the children at camp were chosen because of their magicial potential and they are being trained to use that magic.  As if that wasn't enough, he has to deal with a shape-shifting fellow camp kid, a disappearing best friend and a traitor in their midst.  For he discovers that Camp Ravenwyng is the new battleground between the Camp Ravenwyng Magickers and their ancient enemy, the Dark Hand of Brennard and that a member of the Dark Hand is at camp plotting evil deeds...<br />I resisted buying this book for quite some time because I thought it was a total Harry Potter .... and it both is and it isn't.  Jason and Harry have many similarities: their age; they are both being raised by someone other than their parents: Harry an aunt/uncle, Jason a stepmother/stepfather; they both know nothing about magic until they go to school/camp; they both have two best friends: Hermoine/Bailey and Ron/Trent; a klutzy boy in camp: Neville Longbottom and Henry Squibb; they are both sorted into their areas: Harry by the sorting hat and Jason by the wishing well; both have weird scars: Harry the famous lighting bolt on his forehead and Jason a weird moon shaped scar on his hand; both are mysterious targets for evil beings; both have the power to work miraculous things and end up saving the day, etc.  This is really too bad because once Susan Drake got past the whole \\"be as close to Harry Potter as possible without plagarizing\\" at the beginning of the book, she was able to create a delightful fantasy book.  There are some differences, the main one being the way magic works and what it is used for.  The evil characters are also different and include both animals and humans.  There are also some unexpected surprises in the book.  The book is well-written and the reader empathizes with the characters almost immediately.  The plot is pretty fast paced and there are plenty of little details to keep the reader amused with sub-plots while they wait for the serious action to occur.  If you enjoyed Harry Potter, you will like this book, but I still feel bad that she \\"borrowed\\" so many ideas from J.K. Rowling.both have the power to work miraculous things and end up saving the day, etc.  This is really too bad because once Susan Drake got past the whole \\"be as close to Harry Potter as possible without plagarizing\\" at the beginning of the book, she was able to create a delightful fantasy book.  There are some differences, the main one being the way magic works and what it is used for.  The evil characters are also different and include both animals and humans.  There are also some unexpected surprises in the book.  The book is well-written and the reader empathizes with the characters almost immediately.  The plot is pretty fast paced and there are plenty of little details to keep the reader amused with sub-plots while they wait for the serious action to occur.  If you enjoyed Harry Potter, you will like this book, but I still feel bad that she \\"borrowed\\" so many ideas from J.K. Rowling.	2002-12-19
US	46905518	R1UNIXS7S7SIG7	0440224187	298946694	Shakespeare's Landlord (Lily Bard Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	5	21	24	N	N	To See or Not to See...	To Lily Bard, the small, sleepy town of Shakespeare, Arkansas is the perfect place to hide her past.  After being brutally gang raped years before, Lily has painstakingly rebuilt her life.  She is now must stronger physically and is gaining confidence in her martial arts studies.  However, she still disguises her looks and maintains a low profile.  After all, housecleaners aren't exactly noticed.  But all of that changes when she witnesses a murder...<br />Suddenly she is faced with a difficult choice - to share what she has learned with the police and lose her hard-won anonymity and gain unwanted attention or to pretend that she never saw anything.  Then her married karate instructor starts showing a passionate interest in her and her plan of a private, well-ordered life comes unhinged.  Meanwhile, the killer of an unlamented landlord is lurking nearby.  And while Lily knows the inside dirt on her neighbors' dust, drawers and private lives, she must admit to a secret of her own: that in the shadow of a brutal murder, she is coming alive again...<br />This is a short, well-written mystery that will hook you on the Shakespeare/Lily Bard series written so ably by Charlaine Harris.  Lily is a fascinating character as she is so strong/tough and yet has her softer side and her weaknesses.  In short, she is human.  The way she solves the murder is quite entertaining as she uses her knowledge of cleaning the various locations in Shakespeare to eliminate suspects as she goes along.  I found the book to be quite humorous as Lily has a wry, dry sense of humor that is very appealing.  I highly recommend this book to mystery buffs and for those who enjoyed any of Mrs. Harris' other books.  It is unfortunate that books 2 & 3 in the series are out of print, but if I was able to hunt them down, you can too - its well worth it!	2002-12-19
US	46905518	R16AHXNJ0Y3BX0	0618258027	11341833	The Two Towers Visual Companion: The Official Illustrated Movie Companion (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	Another Beautiful Book	The Two Towers Visual Companion is a beautifully done book that die hard Tolkien fans and those new to Tolkien's world will appreciate.  Most of the oversize book is filled with gorgeous full color photographs to give you little teasers regarding the film, but also to help define the different races and introduce new characters.  For those who are not as familiar with The Fellowship of the Ring, it gives you a little background on those events that spill over into The Two Towers and then moves forward with the story.  This makes it a great book for those who are not very familiar with Tolkien's world as it clearly explains who everyone is as far as races and cultures go.  There are sections on Gollum, The Dead Marshes, Ithilien, Faramir, Fangorn Forest, Ents, Saruman, Gandalf the White, The Rohirrim, and many more.  I am a big Tolkien fan so it was all review for me, but Jude Fisher does a fine job of summarizing the story and preparing the reader for the film.  My main interest in reading this book was to see where the book by Tolkien and the movie by Jackson differed and, in that respect, it was very helpful.  At the cheap price available now, it is a worthy addition to any fantasy or Tolkien fan's library.	2002-12-19
US	46905518	R121WBEZBMCGB	0141302860	102259720	The Secret of Platform 13	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Perfectly Funny, Delightful Fantasy Romp!	Under Platform 13 in one of London's busiest trains stations is an old, forgotten doorway covered with peeling posters.  Little do the Londoners know that behind that door is the entrance to a magical kingdom - an island where humans live in harmony and happiness with mermaids, ogres, hags, mistmakers, etc.  The door opens once every 9 years for 9 days and allows magical creatures to revisit old haunts in London and for other creatures to leave London for the island.  The baby princes' nannies cannot resist the opportunity to taste fish and chips once again and take just a short visit to London.  They run across a beastly woman named Mrs. Trottle who kidnaps the young prince and runs away with him just as the doorway closes for another 9 years.  The whole island despairs and waits in mourning for the 9 years to pass for an opportunity to rescue the prince...<br />After the nine years is over, four unlikely rescuers: an invisible ogre (except for his eye), a hag (well, she will be one when she is older), a wizard (who is a little older than he should be) and a fey (who cannot understand why Londoners don't wear beetroots in their hats) pass through the doorway to try and rescue the prince.  They quickly proceed to the Trottles' house to try and persuade Raymond Trottle to return to the island with them.  However, they quickly discover that Raymond is a terribly fat, spoiled and in every way rotten, mean little boy.  Who wants to live on island where he is the king?  If only the prince could be more like Ben, the kitchen boy...<br />This is a classic Cinderella type tale where every adult (and most children) will immediately realize what the ending of the book will be.  However, the fun part is trying to get to the ending.  Eva Ibbotson has packed the book with hilarious characters and little surprises to make this book a fun read for everyone from 5 to 50 years old.  If you like fantasy, give this one a whirl!  The plot is fun and there are a few evil characters, but nothing scary and everything about the magicial creatures is explained.  It is perfect for reading to/with your children as they wait for the next Harry Potter book to come out.  Or, if you feel that your child is too young to read Harry Potter, this is a great book to give them.nothing scary and everything about the magicial creatures is explained.  It is perfect for reading to/with your children as they wait for the next Harry Potter book to come out.  Or, if you feel that your child is too young to read Harry Potter, this is a great book to give them.	2002-12-18
US	46905518	RR2KS45TU7C8Z	0595212506	4838270	Magic's Return	Books	1	1	1	N	N	I Cannot Believe That Someone Published This!	Safian Swift sacrificed his life to imprison the evil Warlord Couldis and banish magic from the world, but he could not destroy him.  When a treasure hunter accidentally releases Couldis from his imprisonment, magic is set loose in the world again.  Couldis sweeps across the land, enslaving, killing and impressing men into his army.  He seems unstoppable.  Soon, Ryle Sojourn, a forester, is swept up into Couldis' ugly world when he impulsively saves a runaway slave from recapture.  He quickly falls in love with the beautiful Syira and forms a band of renegades who prey on the soldiers in his forest.  When Ryle is captured saving Syria's life, he comes to the attention of Couldis' general, Ruben, who eventually helps him escape.  Together they must try to find a legendary city where a member of the warrior clan, of which Ryle finds he is a descendant, has a chance at fighting Couldis' evil.<br />I was so disappointed in this book because I truly felt that the story had potential and I love trying out new authors.  Magic's Return has all of the traditional aspects of fantasy present and a likeable, flawed hero who is forced to fumble around as he tries to figure out exactly what it is that a hero is supposed to do.  There are few who know how to use magic as it has been gone from the world for so long so there was some potential for the author to explain the magic of the world and how to be trained to use it.  However, the first thing that the reader will notice is the huge quantity of grammatical errors and the almost child-like writing style of the author.  Every single paragraph, indeed, it seems as if every single line has a mistake in it.  The author doesn't believe in using apostrophes (such as wont) and cannot tell the difference between simple word variations (to/too/two and loose/lose).  There are even a couple of places where the author left (  ) to fill in names and other details of the world.  Many sentences are fragments and do not make sense.  Any dialogue between characters is stilted and awkward.  Descriptions and evocative language use do not exist in this book.  In short, this is a first draft that was scribbled off by someone in the middle of the night and published without anyone even bothering to run a spell checker on it.  The author leaves the reader hanging at the end of the book with the characters separated, but nothing could persuade me to spend more money on this drivel.  I am going to take the bookstore up on their offer of 100% satisfaction guaranteed and return it.  Don't waste your money on this one.ue between characters is stilted and awkward.  Descriptions and evocative language use do not exist in this book.  In short, this is a first draft that was scribbled off by someone in the middle of the night and published without anyone even bothering to run a spell checker on it.  The author leaves the reader hanging at the end of the book with the characters separated, but nothing could persuade me to spend more money on this drivel.  I am going to take the bookstore up on their offer of 100% satisfaction guaranteed and return it.  Don't waste your money on this one.	2002-12-18
US	46905518	RMB27DFYFAKI7	0142300497	970205370	Island of the Aunts	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Charming Children's Fantasy!	Aunt Etta, Aunt Coral and Aunt Myrtle are getting old and can no longer keep up with all of the magical creatures of the island like they used to - after all, mermaids, selkies, and boobries take a lot of work.  However, they know that they cannot trust other adults to take care of the island the way they do so they decide that they need some children.  There is only one problem - they don't have any children to train.  The aunts decide that the only way is to resort to kidnapping.  After all, some children just plain need to be kidnapped.  So the aunts set of to mainland England and start sorting through children.  They quickly learn that most children are horrible, nasty, selfish creatures who don't know how to work at all.  The aunts are ready to give up when they discover Minette and Fabio, two children who are clever, hard workers, and, most especially, underappreciated at home.  Aunt Etta and Aunt Coral arrive back at the island, having successfully kidnapped their likely candidates and are quickly followed by Aunt Myrtle, who panicked and kidnapped a totally unsuitable monster of a boy.  What happens next on the island will surprise and delight young readers as amazing and wondrous events take place...<br />This is an absolutely enchanting fantasy book for children.  It is always fun to hear about normal people triumphing over great odds, and even more fun when those normal people happen to be normal children doing extraordinary things.  Eva Ibbotson has a very nice, easy writing style that is quite simple and makes everything easy to understand.  She is very attentive to her audience and always introduces new creatures with a bit of background information so that everyone is clear on what her view of a selkie/mermaid/boobrie/kraken/etc is.  The type font is larger than usual and so perfectly suited to younger children.  I think that this book is a marvelous option for those younger readers who are not quite ready to dive into Harry Potter.  Although The Island of the Aunts deals with some serious subjects, Ibbotson treats them in such a way that they are very light and nonthreatening.  A perfect book to read with your children or to offer to an older child as a longer alternative for their own reading time.nd of the Aunts deals with some serious subjects, Ibbotson treats them in such a way that they are very light and nonthreatening.  A perfect book to read with your children or to offer to an older child as a longer alternative for their own reading time.	2002-12-18
US	46905518	RJ0ZUU72NXFEB	0141304278	866508991	Which Witch?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Funny Fun Fantasy for Kids & Adults!	Arriman the Awful, the handsome, single Wizard of the North is tired.  He has absolutely exhausted himself blighting and smiting, blasting and wuthering, and doing everything he could to keep darkness and sorcery in the land.  When a gypsy informs him that the new Wizard of the North cometh soon, Arriman is overjoyed at the prospect of retiring to a vacation villa in the south.  However, the new Wizard doesn't cometh.  In desperation, Arriman decides to marry so that he can train his son as his heir.  He cannot marry just any witch, of course, the witch that he weds must be wildly wicked so that their son will be thoroughly black.  A contest is devised: whoever performs the darkest piece of magic will become his bride.  Belladonna, the smallest, youngest witch of the coven, wants desperately to win, as she has fallen in love with Arriman.  But she has one problem - she is a good witch and cannot perform black magic no matter how hard she tries.  Just when she is about to despair, her salvation arrives in the form of a dirty little orphan and his magicial earthworm.  What follows will make readers laugh aloud as they follow Belladonna's desperate efforts to become a bad girl!<br />This is my favorite book by Eva Ibbotson because it is so humorous.  It is not often that you find a good girl trying to become bad so that she can marry the handsome hero/villain.  The other witches in Belladonna's coven are quite literally a scream as they all have their own weird quirks and interesting familiars.  The story is well written and has many fun details about the way magic works.  Also, even though there is a rather dark subject matter, this book is not in the least bit scary.  Highly recommended reading for young fantasy readers who are looking for something to read in between Harry Potter books.	2002-12-18
US	46905518	R1ZUPUE9PSI538	0060014253	583114525	Sorcerers of the Nightwing (The Ravenscliff Series, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great New Fantasy/Horror Series!	Every kid is afraid that a monster lives in his closet, but for Devon March, the monsters are all too real.  Ever since he was a young boy, he knew there were dark, evil things that would come slithering out across his floor, determined to drag him with them back down to their Hellhole.  But Devon is no ordinary boy.  He has many supernatural powers including moving objects with his mind, summoning incredible strength, and disappearing at will - and that is only what he knows he can do so far!  Yet his powers, and the demons in his closet, remain for him unexplained mysteries.<br />When Devon is fourteen, his father dies and he discovers that he is adopted and that he is being sent to Ravenscliff, a dark seaside mansion to live.  There he learns that he a sorcerer of the Order of the Nightwing, a 3,000 year old tradition of mysticism and magic that fascinates Devon with its fabled history.  But Devon's new family, the Muirs, forbid him from doing magic of any kind or of discovering anything about his past.  However, how can Devon not do magic when demons and other people are attacking him from every side?  Devon quickly discovers that a fearful demon, one of the Muir's ancestor's ghosts, has possessed a strange, 8-year old boy and that he wants to release all of the demons of the Hellhole.  Although Devon is not sure how to go about it, he is determined to fight off the demons with his friends and to do whatever it takes to learn who he is...<br />I really enjoyed Sorcerers of the Nightwing for the most part.  The author has a nice, smooth writing style and well drawn characters.  The plot was pretty well paced, details were repeated a few times, but nothing that was too obvious.  The world is richly detailed and fully realized.  I liked the main character, Devon, and most of the supporting characters.  Geoffrey Huntington reveals just enough clues to Devon's past to hook the reader, but not enough to satiate his/her curiosity so I am eagerly anticipating the next book in the series.  My main complaint with the book is that Devon is virtually all-powerful and keeps discovering power after power that he didn't know that he had that enables him to accomplish amazing things.  He is also untried and pretty ignorant of what is going on, but is able to do things that famous, powerful wizards failed at.  It would be nice for Devon to have some weaknesses so that he seemed real.  Other than that, it is a great book - I read it all in one sitting in a few hours!book in the series.  My main complaint with the book is that Devon is virtually all-powerful and keeps discovering power after power that he didn't know that he had that enables him to accomplish amazing things.  He is also untried and pretty ignorant of what is going on, but is able to do things that famous, powerful wizards failed at.  It would be nice for Devon to have some weaknesses so that he seemed real.  Other than that, it is a great book - I read it all in one sitting in a few hours!	2002-12-18
US	46905518	R5BEUONQWELBG	0142302325	170878318	Eva Ibbotson Gift Set (The Secret of Platform 13 / Which Witch? / Island of the Aunts)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enter the Magicial World of Eva Ibbotson...	Eva Ibbotson's world is a place where imagination abounds and witches and wizards live happily with ogres, hags, mermaids and krakens.  In the tradition of Roald Dahl, J.K. Rowling and E. Nesbit, these three novels are packed with crisp humor and droll characters.  From the motley band of rescuers searching London for their missing prince in The Secret of Platform 13, to Belladonna, the young witch who needs to do something awful in order to win the hand of a handsome wizard in Which Witch?, to the three kindly old aunts who kidnap children to help care for the creatures living on the Island of the Aunts, these hilarious tales will sweep readers away to a world of pure fantasy and fun.<br />This is a great introductory set to Eva Ibbotson's entertaining writing.  All three are well written, funny and appropriate for younger children.  The books are recommended for ages 8 and up, but I think that many younger readers would also understand and appreciate this series, especially if they were read with a parent.  Ibbotson does a very nice job of describing the different magical creatures and helping younger readers understand what is going on, but it is not in any way boring for older readers.  These three books are not a series and do not share any of the same characters, but are a fun introduction to a wonderful fantasy author!  Check these out while you wait for Ms. Rowling to finish the next Harry Potter book!	2002-12-18
US	46905518	RL2E4KBDJWS92	0768844754	328018284	The Two Towers 2003 Calendar (The Lord of the Rings)	Books	1	32	33	N	N	A Disappointment - Don't Waste Your Time!	I too was really disappointed in the calendar.  I refused to order it sight unseen so I waited until it came out in stores.  Apparently the manufacturers knew that it was going to be a disappointment so they waited until the last possible minute to release the calendars as they just hit the stores in November.  I was very glad that I did not waste my time or money on it.  I have a beautiful poster wall calendar from the Fellowship of the Ring so I waited to see if one was going to come out for The Two Towers for 2003.  I was not disappointed.  New Line has come out with 2 new calendars (besides this one) that are much better: a die-cut calendar that is available at ...stores (I had to ask for it as they keep them behind the counter) and at select websites and a beautiful poster wall calendar that is available at lordoftherings.net through Newline Cinemas.  My favorite is the poster wall calendar because each picture is like a poster with a small calendar on the bottom so you could keep and frame them if you would like.  If you are a fan - don't waste your time on this one, buy one of the other ones available!	2002-12-17
US	46905518	R2UP36S7QPE2Q0	0142300926	15696380	What! Cried Granny (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Perfect Bedtime Story!	What! Cried the Granny is a charming tale about a boy and his first sleepover at his granny's house.  Granny tells him to go to bed and he tells her that he doesn't have a bed over at her house.  So she makes him one.  Then he doesn't have a pillow, a blanket, a teddy bear, etc.  The resourceful and loving granny takes the time to make each of these things for her grandson so that he can have a pleasant night's sleep.<br />We were first introduced to this book at story time at the library and just loved it so I had to buy it for my 3-year old nephew, who adores it, as do his older brothers (5 & 7 years old).  They laugh every time that we read it to them and never seem to tire of granny's astonishment that she isn't ready for her grandson to sleep over.  The illustrations are charming and the writing is easy enough for younger children to understand, but funny enough that older children will enjoy the grandchild's clever ploys to stay up longer.  This is a great read aloud book and gives the parent/grandparent/teacher lots of chances to use inflection and different voices.  A great addition to your own book collection that your children will treasure for years to come!	2002-11-18
US	46905518	R1HGQ5EES3E228	0451140559	567969405	Where Dragons Lie	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Power That Can Rule the World...	When Princess Sharlin hears her parents talking about the evil sorceress Rodeka, she knows that she must do something before she is sent away to save her kingdom.  But Rodeka is so powerful that only a dragongod such as Turiana, who is long dead, can defeat her.  Following the directions of her faithful gryphon, Sharlin sets out to try and find the dragon's graveyard so that she can defeat Rodeka.  However, Rodeka finds her and hurls her out of her own time, hundreds of years after her kingdom has fallen into dust...<br />Dar is a commoner by birth, son of a solider and a dairy maid.  His father is one of a few soldiers who survived his futile attempt to slay the evil sorcerer Valorek who is slowly taking over the kingdoms.  When Valorek sees Dar and his fighting skills at the young age of eight, he knows that he has found a worthy host for his soul.  He kidnaps Dar and trains him as a great warrior and slowly starts to take him over.  Dar manages to escape and has been fleeing ever since...<br />Thurgood is a good wizard who has had his idealistic beliefs shattered by the forces of evil.  The only way to get magic in this time is to bargain for it with a creature of magic, a dragon.  Thurgood believed that it didn't matter where power came from, if you were good, you could shape it for good regardless of the source.  Unfortunately, he is wrong...<br />These three are thrown together to take on the impossible sounding quest of journeying to the Dragon's graveyard to use the power there for their own means.  Sharlin is going to try and raise Turiana from the dead and be sent back home; Dar needs a dragon's claw to sever the bond that Valorek has made with him; Thurgood wants desperately to destroy all dragons so that no one will have to suffer what he has suffered.  All of them have their own aims, all of them will need to work together to accomplish them - but who will triumph?<br />This was a finely written fantasy that had very nice characterization and a lovely, flowing plot.  The reader will identify with one or all of the characters immediately upon meeting them as they all are real people with human attributes who make mistakes.  There is not a lot of depth to the plot, but it was a nice, easy read.  If you are looking for a break in between something that is a little darker or heavier, this may be the book for you.  This book is definitely something that you will enjoy if you like stories of dragons or classic fantasy - hopefully you will be able to find this in a used bookstore or at your local library!, flowing plot.  The reader will identify with one or all of the characters immediately upon meeting them as they all are real people with human attributes who make mistakes.  There is not a lot of depth to the plot, but it was a nice, easy read.  If you are looking for a break in between something that is a little darker or heavier, this may be the book for you.  This book is definitely something that you will enjoy if you like stories of dragons or classic fantasy - hopefully you will be able to find this in a used bookstore or at your local library!	2002-11-11
US	46905518	RD4S6FRPX0H3H	0441225691	951810774	Falcon	Books	5	34	35	N	N	For Niki, Life is a Race Against Time.  And Time is Winning.	Dominic \\"Niki\\" Glyndwr comes from the ruling family of Cymru, a relatively isolated planet that is not part of the Central Worlds Concorde - yet.  When he returns home after a summer vacation, he finds changes on Cymru.  His uncle, the Prince, is acting erratically and seems to no longer care for the people.  Niki is determined to make things right and makes connections with an underground revolutionary movement.  But, despite all his efforts, his planet is stolen, betrayed by agents of the Central Worlds Concorde, undercover agents he thought of as friends.  His family was destroyed and his world shattered before his eyes...<br />Dominic Glyndwr becomes Niki Falcon, an elite gestalt pilot taking part in an experiment: he has been changed into a being who can literally become his ship.  And he's the last.  For behind his amazing new abilities lies a deadly drug that systematically destroy's his body's defenses.  So when Chyrsander Harris, a famous singer, begs him to break through the Silence imposed by the Central Worlds Concorde to return him to his native planet of Lamia, what has he got to lose?  More than he could imagine...<br />Falcon was an amazing book about a grand adventure across the stars.  And a hero to cheer for.  Niki is a good guy who tries hard and often makes mistakes, but always for what he feels are the right reasons.  He touches the lives of everyone that he comes in contact with: Pedr, the paranoid, frantic Prince; Kitty, the Prince's beautiful, pregnant wife; Rhys, Niki's solid older brother who suddenly belives the worst of him; Jacob, the Prince's security advisor who taught Niki to shoot and defend himself; his mother, Morwenna, a famous geneticist who will destroy his world with a few angry words; Reg, the revolutionary who wants desperately to be a hero; Jhari, the woman who must make the difficult choice between Niki and her job as a Special Agent; Chyrsander Harris, the famous singer who is both more and less than he seems; and a cast of other characters, all of whom are rich and well developed.<br />Falcon is almost two stories told in one book and there is quite a division between the two, but they link together beautifully as the reader continues to submerge deeper into the story.  The plot is lovely and quite unexpected in parts, the characters were strong and weak and normal and yet not, and the writing is beautiful and wonderfully evocative.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading science fiction and/or fantasy.  Take the time to find this in a used bookstore or order it used online - you will not regret it, this book is a treasure!of other characters, all of whom are rich and well developed.<br />Falcon is almost two stories told in one book and there is quite a division between the two, but they link together beautifully as the reader continues to submerge deeper into the story.  The plot is lovely and quite unexpected in parts, the characters were strong and weak and normal and yet not, and the writing is beautiful and wonderfully evocative.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading science fiction and/or fantasy.  Take the time to find this in a used bookstore or order it used online - you will not regret it, this book is a treasure!	2002-11-07
US	46905518	R1705X4YILU4YN	0671877992	394362360	Glenraven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The People of Glenraven Desperately Needed Some Heroes...	...What they got were Sophie, a woman who stopped living when her daughter died, and Jayjay, a woman who just left her third husband.  The Machnan had poured all of their magic into creating an artifact that would call to someone who would be able to free them from Aidris Akalan, the evil Watchmistress who ate the magic of other people to stay eternally youthful and immortal.  The artifact took the unlikely guise of a guidebook in a bookstore.  When Jayjay picked it up, she thought it would be the perfect place to get away/hide until she could face the fact that she would be getting divorced for the third time by the time she was thirty-five years old.  Sophie unexpectedly found herself wanting to go along too.  But when they arrive at Glenraven, nothing is at it seems.  Can they trust their tour guide or is he setting a trap so he can rob them?  In trying to evade their \\"pursuers\\" they walk right into their enemies and stumble across a hidden revolution among the Alfkindir, the long-lived race that Aidris Akalan comes from.  Matthiall is the leader of the revolution, but he is betrayed by one of the warrags, a wolf/dog hybrid that is unlike anything Jayjay and Sophie have seen before.  As they flee Aidris' palace with Matthiall, they run into the other monsters, including the Watchers, the demons that Aidris Akalan has called forth out of the Rift to keep her immortal.  When the ancient race of the Aregen get involved, things become even more complicated...<br />This is not really deep fantasy, but it is a very good light fantasy.  The characters are well-drawn and the reader can empathize with them as they struggle to accomplish something that they didn't even know that they were supposed to accomplish.  None of the creatures/people in the book are what they seem and this makes for some interesting plot twists as unexpected events are always happening.  The idea of a Glenraven was quite fun as it is portrayed as another small European country that has gone overlooked for hundreds of years.  Everything is still in a medieval setting and they are very insulated.  This is just a fun, quick read that has a nice, happy ending.  A great break from some of the heavier fantasy that is out there right now.ked for hundreds of years.  Everything is still in a medieval setting and they are very insulated.  This is just a fun, quick read that has a nice, happy ending.  A great break from some of the heavier fantasy that is out there right now.	2002-11-05
US	46905518	RIJCP9HYK3TWU	0964022729	574115125	Dragon's Pawn	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fast, Fun Fantasy Read!	Dragon's Pawn is a quick, fun read for those looking for a fantasy book that is a little lighter than most that are out there.  The hero is Jarl, a computer programmer from modern-day earth who is recruited to become the hero of Realm, the alternate world where all the fairies, leprechauns, etc. escaped to when man chose science over magic.  Jarl is appointed Dragon's Pawn and given an amulet that he cannot remove.  As he does good deeds, the dragon's scales on the amulet turn to gold.  So Jarl sets out across the country killing ogres, fighting dragons, freeing princesses from binding spells and the usual sort of heroic stuff.  He finally makes his way to the Keepers who guard the Gate between worlds and discovers that the evil wizard is trying to build another gate, which would enable him to bring in evil creatures from every universe/reality.  But does Jarl have enough power in his amulet to stop the wizard from taking over Realm?<br />I really enjoyed Carol Dennis' characters.  They are easy to get to know and aren't really deep, but they were fun and they all have their own little quirks: Jarl has some hesitations about believing in magic when he first arrives, but quickly discovers that magic is real if you believe in it...;Mirza is everything Jarl ever wanted in a woman, but she is hard to keep track of as she can choose to be any shape she wishes; Fafnoddle is a pacifist, vegetarian dragon who would much rather develop new plants such as his steak-tasting fruit than fight; Ebony is the evil-wizard's dragon whom Faf falls in love with; Rory is a leprechaun who gets dragged into being the Keepers' contact with Jarl; then there are the dryads, the death-that-comes-from-the-sky creatures, laser-shooting robotic warriors, old librarians, other pawns, and many, many more.<br />The world is basically earth if magic still existed and is very easy to imagine.  The plot is quick and easy to understand, as well.  This book would probably be better appreciated by teenage readers and/or first-time fantasy readers, but if you read a lot of fantasy (as I do), you know that it is sometimes good to get a break and read something that doesn't take a lot of thought, but is still quite well written - if you fall into this category, check out this book.  I look forward to reading the next couple of books in the series and seeing what happens to Jarl and his companions!age readers and/or first-time fantasy readers, but if you read a lot of fantasy (as I do), you know that it is sometimes good to get a break and read something that doesn't take a lot of thought, but is still quite well written - if you fall into this category, check out this book.  I look forward to reading the next couple of books in the series and seeing what happens to Jarl and his companions!	2002-11-04
US	46905518	R1ZXX2O00V2MRW	0312858124	166725821	Firebird (Fairy Tales, Book 1)	Books	3	21	25	N	N	Decent Effort, But Lackey Can Do Better	The Firebird is a book based on the classic Russian fairy tale of the same name.  Ivan is a self-styled tsar who has many strong, trained, warrior sons, but none of them are very bright.  Except for Ilya, the middle son.  He is much smarter than his brothers so they naturally assume that he is a sorcerer and use every opportunity provided to beat him to a pulp and just generally make his life miserable.  When someone steals Ivan's prize cherries, he sends his sons one by one into the orchard to discover who the thief is.  Ilya knows who the thief is because he spied on the orchard and saw her.  It was the Firebird.  As a reward for not telling Ivan who was stealing his cherries, she gives him the gift of speaking to animals.  As his older brothers fail to discover the thief, they become convinced that Ilya is the thief and give him the worst beating of his life.  Ilya now fears for his life and can think of no other plan to save himself than to pretend that the beating addled his wits and turned him into a fool.  However, not even his pretense protects him as his brothers continue to play cruel jokes - such as tying him to his horse and setting the dogs on him during a hunt.  Using his newly acquired skill to communicate with his horse and the dogs chasing him, he is able to get away.  However, when his horse is killed, he is lost out in the forest in the middle of winter with no supplies.  A kindly ex-employee of his grandfather takes him in for a time and then Ilya becomes restless and follows the feeling of magic back into the woods.  There he comes upon a giant maze which leads to an evil sorcerer's castle.  After catching one glimpse of the 12 beautiful maidens that the sorcerer keeps captive, he falls in love with the lovely Tatiana.  He decides to do whatever it takes to free her and to kill the evil sorcerer.  But, with evil demons, a dragon, and other impossible tasks, can Ilya accomplish what so many other heroes could not?<br />I gave this book 3 stars because there was such slow story development that I almost set it aside.  I usually finish books in a day or 2 and this one took me a week and a half to plow through.  The characters were likeable enough and the story was fine, but Mercedes Lackey spent well over half of the book just setting up the story.  The first part of the book just dragged by as the author described Ilyas terrible life and the horrible things that his family did to him.  She weakly explained that Ilya didn't dare leave because he couldn't survive out in the forest alone long enough to get anywhere else where he could survive.  But, if Ilya's home life was actually as bad as it was potrayed, Ilya definitely had enough backbone to leave - long before the whole cherry tree incident.  By the time Ilya actually does leave his father's land, there isn't a whole lot of time left for the real action in the book.  The reader is going along at a nice slow pace and then suddenly is raced through to the ending where everything changes and nothing ends quite the way it was set up to.  The ending was quite abrupt and left the reader hanging, too.  If this book was a duology or a trilogy, then it would be understandable that Lackey spent so long setting up the story line and left the reader hanging at the end, but, as far as I am aware, it is a standalone novel.  Perhaps Mercedes Lackey was planning on writing another novel to follow this one and it never happened?cause there was such slow story development that I almost set it aside.  I usually finish books in a day or 2 and this one took me a week and a half to plow through.  The characters were likeable enough and the story was fine, but Mercedes Lackey spent well over half of the book just setting up the story.  The first part of the book just dragged by as the author described Ilyas terrible life and the horrible things that his family did to him.  She weakly explained that Ilya didn't dare leave because he couldn't survive out in the forest alone long enough to get anywhere else where he could survive.  But, if Ilya's home life was actually as bad as it was potrayed, Ilya definitely had enough backbone to leave - long before the whole cherry tree incident.  By the time Ilya actually does leave his father's land, there isn't a whole lot of time left for the real action in the book.  The reader is going along at a nice slow pace and then suddenly is raced through to the ending where everything changes and nothing ends quite the way it was set up to.  The ending was quite abrupt and left the reader hanging, too.  If this book was a duology or a trilogy, then it would be understandable that Lackey spent so long setting up the story line and left the reader hanging at the end, but, as far as I am aware, it is a standalone novel.  Perhaps Mercedes Lackey was planning on writing another novel to follow this one and it never happened?	2002-10-25
US	46905518	RMQXFIFNODH4K	0312874413	161853012	A Sorcerer's Treason: A Novel of Isavalta (Isavalta, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wonderful New Fantasy Find!	A Sorcerer's Treason centers around a Wisconsin lighthouse keeper named Bridget Lederle.  Bridget is an old maid in 1899 society and lives with her housekeeper and her housekeeper's son.  She has made it her mission in life to save as many of the sailors as she can by almost religiously guarding the light. When a stranger is cast ashore wearing strange clothing and speaking a strange tongue, she takes him in - and ends up changing her life forever.<br />Bridget finds herself transported from Wisconsin to the fantastical world of Isavalta (reminiscent of Imperial Russia).  She places her trust in Kalami, the handsome sorcerer who was cast upon her shore and persuaded her to go to Isavalta, but is he being honest with her?  For, as soon as she travels to Isavalta, she is thrust into the dangerous political power struggle between Medeoan, the aging dowager empress, and Ananda, the foreign princess who married Medeoan's only child, Mikkel.  Kalami is on the side of Medeoan, but Bridget finds herself strangely drawn to Ananda's sorcerer, Sakra.  When the gods of nature choose to get involved, a new world is about to be born...<br />The reason why I gave this book 5 stars is because of Zettel's stunning characters.  Bridget is a strong woman who has been punished for past mistakes and doubts her own abilities - though her choices become quite clear cut at the end, she still struggles to do what she knows she must.  Valin Kalami is a foreigner sorcerer, the only one of his race to willingly go to serve the empire of Isavalta who conquered them.  Even though he uses Bridget to gain his own ends, the reader still feels empathy for him and hopes that he will succeed in some way.  Sakra is Kalami's opposite in that he is completely loyal to his princess.  Ananda is a strong-willed foreign princess whose greatest crime was to fall in love with her husband.  Even the gods and goddesses get involved including the Vixen, the Crows, and Baba Yaga.  Everyone has their own reasons and everyone is torn between difficult decisions.<br />My only complaint about the book is that I would have liked to spend more time with Bridget.  Zettel jumps back and forth between different character viewpoints, usually every chapter, sometimes more often.  This can be slightly disorienting and a bit offputting as the story loses some of its flow.  It is nice to see the story through other characters' eyes, but it made Bridget seem less like the focal point of the story and more like the first person that Zettel chose to tell the story through.  I would have preferred that more of the story was told through Bridget's eyes, with supporting views every now and again from other characters.<br />Other than that small complaint, I have nothing to dislike about this book.  The world was rich and full of detail.  There are many different cultures and plenty of old rivalries that affect the future of Isavalta.  The characters are complex and multi-faceteted.  I sincerely hope that we will see more of the Isvalta series to come as the end left you hungry for more.nd everyone is torn between difficult decisions.<br />My only complaint about the book is that I would have liked to spend more time with Bridget.  Zettel jumps back and forth between different character viewpoints, usually every chapter, sometimes more often.  This can be slightly disorienting and a bit offputting as the story loses some of its flow.  It is nice to see the story through other characters' eyes, but it made Bridget seem less like the focal point of the story and more like the first person that Zettel chose to tell the story through.  I would have preferred that more of the story was told through Bridget's eyes, with supporting views every now and again from other characters.<br />Other than that small complaint, I have nothing to dislike about this book.  The world was rich and full of detail.  There are many different cultures and plenty of old rivalries that affect the future of Isavalta.  The characters are complex and multi-faceteted.  I sincerely hope that we will see more of the Isvalta series to come as the end left you hungry for more.	2002-10-23
US	46905518	R2J1MN7UB8YHKP	0451458877	259511144	Tainted Trail (Ukiah Oregon, Book 2)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ukiah Oregon is Back!	Tainted Trail is the sequel to Alien Taste and continues the adventures of Ukiah Oregon.  When Alicia, a close friend, goes missing in Oregon, Max and Ukiah fly out to try and find her.  They quickly discover that Alicia's disappearance is a kidnapping and begin a race against the clock.  In their search for her, Ukiah finds out that he may be the legendary Wolf Boy that was lost in 1933.  He tries to contact the Kicking Deers, who wrote the original newspaper article and offered a reward for information on Magic Boy, but they think he is another fraud and refuse to speak with him.  Meanwhile, Max begins to fall in love with Sam, a private investigator whose ex-husband refuses to believe the marriage is over, and discovers that there have been many unexplained deaths in the area.  Is there a link between Alicia and the other deaths?  How are the Kicking Deers involved?  What is Ukiah going to do with his \\"father\\" Rennie when he comes out to protect him?  Another great mystery featuring Ukiah Oregon.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I got very attached to Spencer's characters in Alien Taste and was excited to see them again in this book.  Ukiah is a fascinating combination of innocence and deadly skills.  Readers will enjoy learning more about Ukiah as he slowly discovers who and what he is.  It was also great to learn more about Rennie, Ukiah's main Pack contact, and his past.  Max Bennett finds a love interest this time and starts to come alive again after his first wife's death.  Sam is the object of his affections and I look forward to learning more about her because she is one tough lady.  I did miss Indigo and Kittaning in this book, though, as they were back in Pittsburgh.<br />Wen Spencer has a nice, smooth writing style that reads very quickly and easily.  She has a great plot that keeps you glued to this book and many subplots that add to, rather than detract from, this book as a whole.  For those of you who haven't read Alien Taste, I highly recommend that you do (because I like to read series in order), but, if you haven't, you can read this book and understand everything because Spencer gives nice synopses throughout.  However, it does not detract or bore those readers who already know what she is talking about.  Tainted Trail has lovely characterization, nice descriptive details, an exciting plot line - in short, this book has it all!that you do (because I like to read series in order), but, if you haven't, you can read this book and understand everything because Spencer gives nice synopses throughout.  However, it does not detract or bore those readers who already know what she is talking about.  Tainted Trail has lovely characterization, nice descriptive details, an exciting plot line - in short, this book has it all!	2002-09-30
US	46905518	R20RGYZCLQU6SO	0451458370	874295287	Alien Taste (Ukiah Oregon, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Great New Find!	Ukiah Oregon has a photographic memory, but he can remember nothing of his childhood.  He was raised by wolves in Ukiah, Oregon and found by a biology student who adopted and raised him.  He has no idea how old he is, who his parents were - nothing.  His moms (he has two mothers, no father) try to find out about his past by hiring a private investigator, but Max Bennett can find nothing.  However, as Max learns more about Ukiah, he discovers that Ukiah's specialty is finding people/things so he offers him a job, and eventually makes Ukiah his partner.  When three women are found dead and the fourth presumed kidnapped, Ukiah and Max are called in to find her.  Using his heightened senses, Ukiah finds the fourth woman...and a clue to his past.  The dead women leads Ukiah to The Pack, a dangerous motorcycle gang.  Ukiah knows that they have information about his past, but are they willing to share it?  (This is purposely a vague summary of the book because to give any more information would ruin the surprises and the storyline.)<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  The story was a fresh twist on the whole alien invasion and &quot;Wolf Boy&quot; stories.  Wen Spencer has created finely crafted characters that the reader truly feels for.  Yes, Ukiah has all of these special abilities, but that doesn't mean that he doesn't need help, that he doesn't get scared, that he doesn't wonder why he is different.  Max, Ukiah's partner, is a suffering widower who becomes a kind of father to Ukiah and watches out for him.  Indigo is a tough FBI Agent (the Pack calls her the Lady of Steel), but she has a soft spot for Ukiah and finds herself falling in love with him.  Ukiah's family was also delightful - his two moms and his sister, Cassie added nice touches of &quot;normality&quot; (such as it is for this book) to the story.<br />This book is set 2 years in the future (2004), but everything is recognizable.  People have a few more electronic toys than we have now and we have successfully sent a machine to Mars, but Spencer doesn't really put anything in that couldn't be done in the foreseeable future.<br />Wen Spencer has a very nice writing style (and a good editor - no typos) and the plot was well-paced.  In short, this book is full of action and mystery and well worth your time!sfully sent a machine to Mars, but Spencer doesn't really put anything in that couldn't be done in the foreseeable future.  <br />Wen Spencer has a very nice writing style (and a good editor - no typos) and the plot was well-paced.  In short, this book is full of action and mystery and well worth your time!	2002-09-25
US	46905518	R3IUD7EJVGSCEB	0380779803	661366610	The Ways of Magic (The Elven Ways, Book 1)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Intriguing Alternate Reality Earth	...This book obviously has religious overtones, mainly Catholic, but gathered from other religions as well.  The characters are quite simply drawn, but it is sometimes difficult to understand their motivation because the author drops us into the world with little or no explanations.  If the reader is observant, they will pick up on little facts about famous people or events that happened in the past that will give them clues, but it is very important to pay attention or you will miss them.  I found this part of the book fascinating and really enjoyed the little passing comments that the author made.<br />The reason I gave the book 3 stars is because I felt that the world was still a little confusing, even after I had read the book.  I had a hard time empathizing with the characters.  They went through terrible trials and had many tests of their faith and vision, but I felt like I was doing exactly what I was doing - ready a story about something that is never going to happen to someone who is never going to exist.  The plot was very original and is quite different from most of the fantasy out there, but at times it was a little too complicated to follow when you added the different world, the vast company of characters, all the different kinds of magic and power there are in this world, not to mention having no idea geographically what is going on.  It is good to have mystery and suspense, but there are too many unanswered questions for me.  Perhaps they will be answered in the next book...	2002-09-19
US	46905518	R37WCL34ZTN669	038075438X	552144255	Feather Stroke	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Well-Written Coming of Age Fantasy	Dara's biggest problem is trying to fit into the plain folk community of her family until Tars comes riding in.  He brings with him the damen kesh, a tradition of the old land and demands that Dara's older sister, Mirina, marry him.  If Mirina submits to the demand, the plain folk will be forever bound to support Tars and his people.  Dara's father worries that, if they submit to this tradition, that it will pave the way for the priests, their tithes and other traditions in the new land.  When Mirina commits suicide rather than doom her people, Dara has to make the same difficult choice that Mirina had: marry Tars through tradition, by force or die.  On the way to Tars' home, Dara's father tells her to flee to the Ilijhari, the people who live in the hills and can talk to birds.  While traveling, she encounters a renegade priest of Tith, the sun god in the old land.  Together, Dara and Kentith make their way to the Ilijhari, where Dara finds out that she was adopted by the plain folk and that her mother was an Ilijhari and her father an unknown traveler.  After a few days with the Ilijhari, Dara discovers that her adopted father was imprisoned by Tars for trying to hide her.  She feels that she has no choice but to go to Tars and plead for her father's life.  Kentith insists on accompanying her, even though there is a price on his head.  Tars then holds Kentith hostage while he tries to persuade Dara to marry him.  When the most powerful Tith priest, Narkith, starts destroying the land by fire, everyone blames Kentith.  In order to save Kentith from execution at the hands of his fellow priests, Dara must agree to Tars' demands.  But, as Tars and Dara hunt Narkith, everything changes...<br />This is a well written coming of age fantasy tale by Syndey J. Van Scyoc.  Her characters are well drawn, but the reader feels the greatest kinship with the lead character, Dara, as she struggles to learn who she really is.  Dara has great powers, but she is not all powerful.  She makes mistakes and she loses control.  Tars and Kentith were also very well developed and had many of the same crippling handicaps in their upbringing.  Both were very strong characters and both had feelings for Dara.  The world that Van Scyoc created was intriguing, although not fully fleshed out.  The book had a strong message about life not always working out the way you would like it to.  Dara had to make heartbreaking decisions and learn to follow her own pathway in life.  This was a nice change from most books where everything works out in the end, but did not make the most pleasant ending.e makes mistakes and she loses control.  Tars and Kentith were also very well developed and had many of the same crippling handicaps in their upbringing.  Both were very strong characters and both had feelings for Dara.  The world that Van Scyoc created was intriguing, although not fully fleshed out.  The book had a strong message about life not always working out the way you would like it to.  Dara had to make heartbreaking decisions and learn to follow her own pathway in life.  This was a nice change from most books where everything works out in the end, but did not make the most pleasant ending.	2002-09-16
US	46905518	R3CLEGCL6LAX4U	0441003222	606160838	Instrument of Fate	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Pretty Good, Could Have Been Better	Finally, life was starting to go well for Gillian Songspynner.  She had just won the regional bard title and was on her way to compete at The Castle for the king.  But on her way down the stairs, she tripped and crushed her mandolin.  Jencir, an elvish bard, begs her to take his lute, a beautifully crafted instrument with a gorgeous tone to the Elf Queen at The Castle.  She cannot refuse.  However, she later rethinks the elf's largess and goes in search of him.  She finds Jencir, only to witness his brutal murder by a dark creature.  She flees to her family, but finds that they suffered the same fate.  She feels that she has no choice but to take up the dead elf's quest and to try and avenge her family's death.  On her way to the Elf Queen, she will be stalked by a demon, sold into slavery, helped by kindly priests, attacked by hideous man-sized rodents and that is just the beginning...<br />I enjoyed the book quite a bit at first.  It is not an especially unusual plot, but it was well told for the most part.  However, I did have a hard time believing that so many bad things could befall one person.  Also, I felt that the characterization was a little weak and would have enjoyed learning more about the main character.  She was loved and admired by many and had a great many talents, but I really didn't feel anything for her.  I also really disliked the ending, but I am sure that is just my personal preference.  If you enjoy fantasy, I am sure that you would enjoy this book if it comes across your path, but I wouldn't go searching for it.	2002-08-20
US	46905518	RN75HQ61WPA5A	0312875789	376319675	The Last Hot Time	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautifully Written Urban Fantasy Novel	A long, long time ago, back when man was still hunting and gathering on the plains, the elves left our world to return to Elfland.  About thirty years after JFK was president, they returned.  They were horrified to see what humans had been doing in their absence and immediately started to change the world.  One of the first things they did was to get rid of television.  From there they established themselves throughout the world, making places like the &quot;Levee&quot; in old-Chicago where Elfland's and Earth's borders meet.  Danny is a small town Iowa paramedic who has always dreamed of going to see the Levee.  One day, he can no longer resist the &quot;call&quot; and hops in his souped up old car and heads out.  When he gets near the Levee, he witnesses a drive-by shooting between rival elf gangs and races to help the survivors.  He saves Norma Jean's life and enters the employ of Mr. Patrise.  Mr. Patrise renames him Doc Hallownight and takes him to the Levee.  There he is introduced to the 1920s/30s style of the elves and the humans who live on the border.  He learns that magic is real, that everyone has secrets, that love is not always what is seems, and learns who he really is...<br />This was a beautifully written novel that will stay in your mind long after you have finished it.  The characters are fascinating and very well drawn.  Ford does not completely flesh out the characters - he leaves them a little mystery, a little shadow, so that you never really know them, but you think you do, just like real life.  I loved Ford's writing style.  He creates an almost hazy, blurred vision of this beautiful and ugly world that Doc has chosen to live in.  His prose was absolutely gorgeous and a delight to read.  I absolutely loved this book and hope that we will hear more about these characters one day.	2002-08-19
US	46905518	R3HBCTQ4GNIJ9	0441002420	475982441	A Call to Arms	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Superb Ending to a Fabulous Trilogy!	This is the third and, unfortunately, final book in the Steve Wilkinson Dreamer series.  Steve has just returned to Quarin after killing Belevairn on Earth.  Sadly, he was not in time to stop a tank and several trucks of ammunition from being transported to Quarin.  He knows that Earth's techologically advanced weapons will decimate the medieval land.  He isn't sure what he can do to help, but he knows that he has to try.  Steve fulfills part of the prophecy by accidentally killing the Dark Queen with some rocket launchers while he tries to escape her fortress.  From there, he immediately sets out to find Erelvar, because he know that he will be leading the resistance, and finds that Erelvar's city has been leveled by the tank or \\"the Dragon.\\"  But, Erelvar and his allies are still ready to fight.  Steve uses his knowledge, personality, as well as his power as the Dreamer of prophecy to help save the world of Quarin.<br />This book is absolutely action packed and is a very fast, easy read.  Readers will immediately indentify with Steve and will be cheering him on all the way.  Yes, he does have great powers, but he is still a man and he has a man's weaknesses and a great sense of humor.  He is just an unassuming, normal kind of guy who still can't really understand how he ended up doing all of this.  Steve is the most fully-fleshed out character, but readers will enjoy learning what happened to other characters from A Two-Edged Sword.<br />Martin has beautifully described the different lands that Steve chances upon and the differences between the character races.  I especially enjoyed Steve's interaction with the Olvir (an elvish-type race) and their rituals including the Way of Parting.  This ritual enables the dead to come back for a day to say goodbye to their loved ones through the use of a living \\"host.\\"<br />My only complaint with the book is that many of the characters displayed hitherto unknown powers near the book.  They were very cool powers and not typical magical gifts, but I kind of felt as if Martin were pulling them out randomly to finish the book off.  Still, it was a nice ending and sets the trilogy up for another sequel.  I am hoping that one day we will get one...cal magical gifts, but I kind of felt as if Martin were pulling them out randomly to finish the book off.  Still, it was a nice ending and sets the trilogy up for another sequel.  I am hoping that one day we will get one...	2002-08-19
US	46905518	R3OZZ0A38GY6Y7	0441001076	33113420	Matter of Honor	Books	5	2	2	N	N	In Dreams, He Wielded a Two-Edged Sword ~ Now He's Awake...	A Matter of Honor is the sequel to A Two-Edged Sword and continues the adventures of Steve Wilkinson.  Steve's spirit was forced out of the alternate reality, Quarin, back into his body on Earth.  He tries to convince himself that the whole experience was just a dream, but then he sees a picture of one of the Dread Lords, Belevairn, in a supermarket tabloid.  So Steve drops out of college and sets out to discover what Belevairn is up to.  His trip takes him all across the country and then into South America.  Steve finds out that the Morvir (the bad guys in Quarin) are coming to Earth and becoming mercenaries to become trained with our technologically advanced weapons.  The Dread Lords use our places of Power to transport between their world and Earth.  These places of power include an ancient Mayan temple, a Pueblo kiva, and others.  But, in order to do this, there have to be many, many blood sacrifices - so they use the drug trade in Nicaragua.  They raze whole villages and take only women and children as camp servants/slaves.  All of them end up being sacrificed on the top of the temple.  As bad as this is, Steve knows that it will be worse if the Morvir can make it back to Quarin with their tanks and guns - Quarin will be utterly destroyed.  It is up to him to stop them...<br />This book has a great plot - bad guys come to earth to take our higher level of technology back to their medieval alternate reality.  There are a lot of books about people from our time going to other times/realities, but this is what happens when one of the bad guys follows you home.  The characters were very interesting and Martin gave the reader the opportunity to see the events from several different angles: from Steve, the Dreamer & hero; from Dick, a tabloid reporter who will do anything for a story; from Belevairn, an undead warrior with powerful magic; from Maria, a South American woman captured in a raid by the Morvir; from Garth, a Morvir lieutenant, and many more.  All of the characters were well developed and the reader instantly feels a kinship with them.  All have hopes and dreams, fears and failures, and triumphs - both good and bad.<br />Although this book was not as good as A Two-Edged Sword, I still thought that it was excellent.  Martin keeps things very fast paced and I sat down and read the book in less than a day.  I am looking forwarding to reading A Call to Arms, the last book in the trilogy and seeing how the drama plays out.haracters were well developed and the reader instantly feels a kinship with them.  All have hopes and dreams, fears and failures, and triumphs - both good and bad.<br />Although this book was not as good as A Two-Edged Sword, I still thought that it was excellent.  Martin keeps things very fast paced and I sat down and read the book in less than a day.  I am looking forwarding to reading A Call to Arms, the last book in the trilogy and seeing how the drama plays out.	2002-08-15
US	46905518	R3HCSUB8KXCDI8	0441833446	331872349	Two-edged Sword	Books	5	3	3	N	N	He Was the Dreamer of Prophecy ~ Now What?	Steve Wilkinson volunteers to participate in a sleep experiment at his college, but something goes terribly wrong.  As his spirit is wandering in the land of dreams, he is called through to another world/dimension by a wizard.  In this world, there are the traditional fantasy races: Olvir/elves, Umbrian/humans, etc.  The enemy is the Morvir, a country where male children are taken from their homes at age 5 and trained for war.  Only the best become officers and soliders, the rest are castrated and sent back to work the fields and do other menial labor.  They are ruled by the Dark Queen who wants to take over the land.  The only one who can stop her is the Dreamer...<br />Unfortunately, Steve has no idea what is going on.  He is a typical college student and understands little about battle, honor and such.  However, he is a fast learner.  He quickly becomes one of Erelvar's legir (sworn man) and becomes embroiled in the conflict between the races.<br />This is a fast paced fantasy adventure.  The world was familiar, yet slightly different than a traditional fantasy setting, which was fun.  The characters were well-drawn.  All of them learned, developed and matured throughout the novel.  Martin spent some time showing the war through all of the different races so that the reader could understand how they viewed the conflict.  Each of the characters had weaknesses and all suffered crippling losses.  Steve's knowledge of technology helped, but he didn't single-handedly save the world.  I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys fantasy.  Even though it is rather typical in the premise (person from modern world sucked into another world where he is the only one who can save them from destruction, etc.), Martin's writing style makes this book a great read.  Highly recommended for any readers of fantasy.	2002-08-14
US	46905518	RAT9DLZIZA2B8	0064473139	920682474	Cart and Cwidder (Dalemark Quartet, Vol. 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Nice Fantasy for Children and Young Adults	Cart and Cwidder tells the story of a family of singers: Clennen, the larger-than-life lead singer and father, Lenina, the cool, calm highborn mother, Dagner, the talented but shy eldest son, Brid, the impetuous, talkative daughter and Moril, the dreamy youngest son.  The family is happy enough, traveling around the country between North and South boundaries, performing for various towns and villages along the way.  But when they take on a traveler, Kialan, to take him to the North, their happy life starts to unravel.  Clennen is suddenly murdered in the woods.  Lenina marries the nobleman she was engaged to before she ran off with Clennen.  Dagner tries to continue his father's spy work and ends up in jail.  Brid thinks that she is more clever than she is and leads the evil Tholian to Kialan, who is really the duke's son.  It is left to Moril to try and muddle his way through, half awake, half dreaming, and learn how to play the magicial cwidder that his father left him.<br />I loved the characters.  As soon as they were introduced, I felt as if I knew them and how they worked together.  The author has a nice story to tell and it unfolds rather well, but is kind of abrupt in parts.  The beginning of the book is a little slower paced, but once the ball gets rolling, it gets faster and faster and faster and never slows down again.  I thought that it would have been nice to have a little more plot development, a little more time to tell the story.  However, I do understand that this is a children's/young adult's book and it is a good length for them to read.  The main reason I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 is because of the rather detached way that the story is told.  Everything is in third person and I sometimes felt that the characters weren't feeling anything.  This may be intentional, as Moril is a rather dreamy and detached character and tends to distance himself from circumstances in the real world, but it made the story less than it could have been.  It would have been nice to have a more active feel to the story as a whole.  Still, I think that most younger readers will enjoy this book.  It is also a good introduction to fantasy for teens and children as it takes place in a place that seems normal with touches of magic here and there.would have been nice to have a more active feel to the story as a whole.  Still, I think that most younger readers will enjoy this book.  It is also a good introduction to fantasy for teens and children as it takes place in a place that seems normal with touches of magic here and there.	2002-08-09
US	46905518	R6N8MXCOJWFDL	0441009239	302398899	Living Dead in Dallas (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 2)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Funny, Fast Paced & Unforgettable Vampire Mystery!	This is the second in the Southern Vampire series and continues the adventures of Sookie Stackhouse, a telepathic Southern waitress, and Bill, her vampire boyfriend.<br />Although I really enjoyed Dead Until Dark, I thought that Living Dead in Dallas was better.  It had a faster pace and more subplots to keep me interested.  I recommend reading the first book, though, because you will appreciate the characters more.  And speaking of characters - every character in  Charlaine Harris' books is very memorable and fun to get to know.  Sookie is just a scream and readers will fall in love with Bill as he struggles to balance between being a vampire and being human.  I love the main characters, but I also want to know more about the supporting characters - the blond-Adonis vampire Eric, the geeky head vampire Stan, the insane maenad, and many, many more.  All of Harris' characters are fun to get to know and I hope that I will see more of them in the next book.<br />Charlaine Harris also has some very interesting vampire ideas that make them seem more real.  She adds little random touches throughout the novel that answer questions that you never really knew that you had.  For example, some vampires can fly, but how do the rest of them get around?  They fly Anubis air, of course.  The airline will transport vampires in their coffins during the day and is heavily guarded so that they cannot be attacked.  Once you have reached your destination, the discerning vampire will immediately seek out the finest in accomodations.  In Dallas, The Silent Shore is a vampire-friendly hotel that even offers room service delivery of \\"snacks\\" in whatever blood type you prefer.<br />If you have not done yourself the favor of reading Charlaine Harris' Southern Vampire books, I recommend that you go to your nearest bookstore and buy them now (and be prepared to stay up late to finish them).	2002-08-07
US	46905518	R19268FIYDBJA	0441008534	486021067	Dead Until Dark  (Sookie Stackhouse/True Blood, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Telepathic Waitress, A Mainstreaming Vampire & A Collie...	Sookie Stackhouse is just about perfect: she is blonde, beautiful, hardworking, takes care of her grandmother and her irresponsible brother, doesn't mind living in a small town, enjoys being a waitress...and everyone thinks she is crazy. She cannot get a date or stand being around most men because she is telepathic. So when she meets the vampire Bill, who is trying to \\"mainstream\\" (live among humans) and finds that she cannot read his thoughts, she falls for him. However, having a vampire for a boyfriend isn't as easy as one would think. Bill has really creepy friends, drinks synthetic blood and may be a psychotic murderer. Someone in town is strangling women who are vampire junkies, and Bill is the only vampire who lives there. So Sookie sets out to find the murderer and clear Bill and her brother's name. In the midst of the investigation, she comes to the attention of a really handsome, really powerful, older vampire who sees that she could be very useful. Sookie isn't interested, but Eric plays by his own rules. Then, as if her love life wasn't confused enough, Sookie finds out that her boss, Sam, is really a shapeshifter and is falling in love with her too...<br />This book was a little slow at the beginning, but once Harris got going, Sookie became a delightful character to read about. She is funny and sarcastic and has a very interesting way of seeing life. Of course, being able to read minds will probably give you a slightly skewed vision of humanity. Anyway, I loved Harris' characters. Even the supporting characters were well drawn and you felt that you knew just about everyone in town that Sookie knew.<br />I also enjoyed the idea of the vampires coming out of the closet, so to speak. The vampires were using the press to claim that they were victims of a virus and that they couldn't do anything about their condition. So Japan created a synthetic blood (in different blood types/flavors, of course) that the vampires could live off of. The vampires didn't have to hide anymore and many were becoming policemen and the like to use their talents to help society.<br />The only complaint that I have is that the mystery plot was pretty weak. There was not a lot of time given over to the mystery and the ending was kind of abrupt and a little too neat. This was unfortunate because everything else about the book was great. I look forward to reading more books by Charlaine Harris and hope that she sticks with this series for a while. If you like Laurell Hamilton, Tanya Huff or Susan Sizemore, you will love Charlaine Harris.ve to hide anymore and many were becoming policemen and the like to use their talents to help society.<br />The only complaint that I have is that the mystery plot was pretty weak. There was not a lot of time given over to the mystery and the ending was kind of abrupt and a little too neat. This was unfortunate because everything else about the book was great. I look forward to reading more books by Charlaine Harris and hope that she sticks with this series for a while. If you like Laurell Hamilton, Tanya Huff or Susan Sizemore, you will love Charlaine Harris.	2002-08-05
US	46905518	R1HWZDNY3RCPC7	0345387708	253652819	The Wind-Witch (The Warhorse of Esdragon, Book Two)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	She Had the Power to Whistle Up the Wind...	The Wind Witch is the second book in the Warhorse of Esdragon series, but the story stands independent from the first book.  This is the story of one of Leith and Kess' (the hero and heroine of The Prince of Ill Luck) descendants, Druyan.  Druyan is the youngest daughter of a large family and has always done what she is told: she married a much older man, repressed her magical abilities and has resigned herself to being childless.  When her husband is killed by the sea raiders, she is suddenly faced with a choice: go back to her family (who will marry her off to someone else) or try and freehold her farm.  If she can pay all of the tithes and keep the farm going for a year and a day, the farm is hers.  However, all of the men are away fighting for the Duke against the sea raiders and she needs help to run the farm.  So she bargains with Kellis, one of raiders captured and imprisoned in the attack on her farm.  He agrees to help her in exchange for his freedom.  It soon becomes apparent that Kellis has magicial abilities - including the ability to see the future and/or the past.  The problem is, he never knows if he is seeing the future or the past and he cannot really control what or when he sees.  When Druyan finds out about his abilities, she is skeptical at first.  But then Kerris' vision about the attack on her farm comes true.  She then urges Kerris to try and &quot;see&quot; when the raiders are coming so she can warn others and keep the sea raiders from conquering her homeland.  The legendary Valadan, a wind-sired stallion who can communicate with his rider (if he chooses), whisks Druyan throughout Esdragon to warn the people of incoming danger and plays an integral part in saving the people of Esdragon.<br />I must agree with other reviewers that this title was not as good as The Prince of Ill Luck, the first book in the series.  The plot is not especially original: normal person required to do extraordinary things to rescue their country and become a hero, but it is always kind of fun to read this type of story and think that normal people can make a difference.  It has a pretty slow, methodical pace until the last 100 pages or so.  Kerris and Druyan's relationship was also slow in developing, but love does not always happen at first sight.  Still, the country of Esdragon is a fascinating place and it was interesting to see it through a &quot;farmer's&quot; point of view instead of from a Duke's daughter.  This gives the reader the opportunity to learn about how to harvest barley, thatch a roof, or weave cloth as opposed to breeding horses, swordfighting and the like.<br />Dexter's strong female characters will please many readers - it is unfortunate that her male characters are not quite as strong and believable.  Still, there was good character development and maturation throughout the story.  The characters grew in maturity, strength and confidence through the story and seemed like real people.  I also enjoyed the different magical abilities of the heroine: the ability to whistle up the wind and storms.  The hero is a more traditional magician and can see the future/past and shape-shift.  It was nice to see both characters get strong magical abilities instead of just one or the other.<br />If you can only buy one book by Susan Dexter, buy The Prince of Ill Luck, if you can buy this one also, go for it.  Just remember that they are very different from one another.but it is always kind of fun to read this type of story and think that normal people can make a difference.  It has a pretty slow, methodical pace until the last 100 pages or so.  Kerris and Druyan's relationship was also slow in developing, but love does not always happen at first sight.  Still, the country of Esdragon is a fascinating place and it was interesting to see it through a &quot;farmer's&quot; point of view instead of from a Duke's daughter.  This gives the reader the opportunity to learn about how to harvest barley, thatch a roof, or weave cloth as opposed to breeding horses, swordfighting and the like.  <br />Dexter's strong female characters will please many readers - it is unfortunate that her male characters are not quite as strong and believable.  Still, there was good character development and maturation throughout the story.  The characters grew in maturity, strength and confidence through the story and seemed like real people.  I also enjoyed the different magical abilities of the heroine: the ability to whistle up the wind and storms.  The hero is a more traditional magician and can see the future/past and shape-shift.  It was nice to see both characters get strong magical abilities instead of just one or the other. <br />If you can only buy one book by Susan Dexter, buy The Prince of Ill Luck, if you can buy this one also, go for it.  Just remember that they are very different from one another.	2002-07-31
US	46905518	R4F8M9H9YM0U8	0553577964	777998572	Yesterday's Kings	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intriguing story line, little character development.	Yesterday's Kings is the story of two races: the Kandarians and the Durrym.  The Durrym were forced out of their ancestral lands by the iron-bearing Kandarians so there is little love lost between the two peoples.  The Durrym made a new home for themselves across the river, which they use as a barrier to keep the Kandarians out.  There they shape nature with their magic and are involved in their own petty clan disputes.  Little do they know that the Kandarians are looking at their border with greedy eyes.  The Kandarians are running out of room for their people and the church has found a way to cross the barrier to the Durrym world.<br />Cullyn is a simple woodsman whose greatest desire is to buy himself a fine horse.  He lives in the forest in harmony alone and does not really understand the village people.  When Lofantyl, a Durrym, befriends him, Cullyn begins to see the Durrym as people instead of traditional enemies.  Lofantyl falls in love with Adris, Lord Bartram's daughter (a border lord who keeps the Durrym out of Kandaria).  He risks everything to visit her in the keep and is captured.  Lofantyl's kinsmen come and rescue him and kidnap Adris.  She is in love with Lofantyl, but not sure if she can be happy among the Durrym.  Lofantyl's father, Isydrian, doesn't like Kandarians, but he is hoping that the Kandarians will attack so that he can send them to his enemies and take over their land.<br />Meanwhile, back in the forest, the priest Per Fendur has found out that Cullyn was friends with Lofantyl and intends to torture information out of him.  Cullyn escapes with Laurens, a guardsmen, and seeks out the help of Eben, a half-Durrym, half-Kandarian wizard.  They escape over to Durrym land, where they fall into the hands of Isydrian's enemies.  There Cullyn falls madly in love with the lord's daughter and becomes champion for a battle of arms to win the lord's daughter and to somehow make peace between all of the warring factions.<br />It was a little frustrating to read this book, because it had so much potential to be much more than it was.  In many ways, this is the classic tale of Britain and the fey folk who lived there before men with iron chased them out.  Except here, the fey folk simply relocated and are still a force to be reckoned with.  The plot was fast paced and kept the reader interested, but there was little or no character development, which was disappointing.  Cullyn and Lofantyl fall in love literally at first sight and are willing to go to any means to be with the woman they want to wed.  Cullyn, as the main character of the story, was the least developed ironically.  He goes from being a simple forester who has never even held a sword to a champion in Durrym where he jousts and swordfights with a battle trained Durrym.  This is weakly explained as his being the syn'qui or someone whom fate revolves around.  Also, it would have been nice to get a little more information on the different cultures and how magic differed between them as it grew to be important to the story, but was never really explained.<br />This book will be enjoyed by new, younger readers of fantasy and those looking for a quick, easy read in between longer, more detailed fantasy epics.ing to read this book, because it had so much potential to be much more than it was.  In many ways, this is the classic tale of Britain and the fey folk who lived there before men with iron chased them out.  Except here, the fey folk simply relocated and are still a force to be reckoned with.  The plot was fast paced and kept the reader interested, but there was little or no character development, which was disappointing.  Cullyn and Lofantyl fall in love literally at first sight and are willing to go to any means to be with the woman they want to wed.  Cullyn, as the main character of the story, was the least developed ironically.  He goes from being a simple forester who has never even held a sword to a champion in Durrym where he jousts and swordfights with a battle trained Durrym.  This is weakly explained as his being the syn'qui or someone whom fate revolves around.  Also, it would have been nice to get a little more information on the different cultures and how magic differed between them as it grew to be important to the story, but was never really explained.<br />This book will be enjoyed by new, younger readers of fantasy and those looking for a quick, easy read in between longer, more detailed fantasy epics.	2002-07-29
US	46905518	R2DPRXE1MT3JYF	0553584758	793314069	Devlin's Luck (Sword of Change, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Start of a Fun New Series!	Devlin's Luck is the first book in a new series by Patricia Bray.  The book is set in the kingdom of Jorsk, an empire that is slowly decaying from within.  Jorsk is ruled by a king who is afraid of making a wrong decision, so he makes no decisions at all.  There has long been a tradition in Jorsk of the Gods selecting a \\"Chosen One\\" who will defend the kingdom from enemies both natural and unnatural.  In recent years, the Chosen One has lasted about a month before dying.  Only the foolhardy and the desperate now apply for the position.  Devlin is desperate and he has a death wish.  He has lost his wife, his newborn daughter, his brother and his nephew and has nothing left to live for.  He applies for the position and to everyone's suprise becomes the Chosen One.  Everytime Devlin is sent out on a task, he prepares himself for death so that he can rejoin his family.  However, he always seems to escape death.  As the court realizes that this Chosen One is different, powerful forces plot against him to try and eliminate him before he can become a symbol of honor, hope and strength within the empire.<br />This is just a fun, easy read for those who enjoy fantasy.  The characters are not particularly unique, the problems are much the same, but Bray has a nice, easy writing style that most readers will enjoy.  I hope that this author will continue to develop in style and creativity.  It is worth your while to check out this new addition to the fantasy genre.	2002-07-26
US	46905518	R3MI0HROAJMTM0	0886775027	290922881	Blood Trail: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Werewolf Hunting Sharpshooter	This is the second book in the Vicki Nelson/Henry Fitzroy series.  Vicki's life is just getting back to normal after her demon-hunting escapade in the last book when Henry, a 450-year old vampire, gives her a call.  He introduces her to two of his friends, who just happen to be werewolves.  They need her help to find the person responsible for shooting two members of their family while they were in wolf form.  Vicki cannot say no and travels out to the countryside with Henry to take the case.  There she struggles to find someone with the skill to shoot the wolves while learning about werewolf culture and exploring her relationship with Henry and her sometimes boyfriend Mike Celluci.<br />I enjoyed this book more than the first book as I felt that the characters were more fully developed.  Vicki and Henry become more three-dimensional and the werewolves are simply delightful to read about.  The twins, Peter and Rose, and Daniel, their younger cousin, provide touches of humor and playfulness to the plot.<br />It was interesting to see how Tanya Huff differed in her description of werewolf culture compared to other authors in her genre.  She brought out much more of the wolf in their character than the human aspect.  First of all, werewolves are born that way and you cannot be turned into a werewolf.  The werewolves stay in packs with a dominant alpha male and female, who are the only two allowed to breed (just like wolves in the wild).  Many werewolves are born as twins and find it very difficult to be separated from them.  They have a hard time going to school as they find it too confining to wear clothes and to be apart from others of their kind.  There are many other interesting aspects of their culture, as well.<br />I gave the book 4 stars because, although I really enjoyed learning about werewolf culture and loved the werewolves themselves, there is still not a lot of depth to the plot.  It was pretty obvious who the murderer was as the author only introduces you to a few characters so that was a little disappointing because I love a good mystery.  Still, this book was very enjoyable and most readers who read this genre will find it a pleasant way to pass the time.  I look forward to reading the next book in the series to find out if it keeps getting better...you to a few characters so that was a little disappointing because I love a good mystery.  Still, this book was very enjoyable and most readers who read this genre will find it a pleasant way to pass the time.  I look forward to reading the next book in the series to find out if it keeps getting better...	2002-07-24
US	46905518	R1XGS26ASNJBAD	0886774713	727303671	Blood Price: Victory Nelson Private Investigator: Otherworldly Crimes a Specialty	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Not Laurell Hamilton, But Fun All the Same	Blood Price is the first book in Tanya Huff's Vicki Nelson series.  Vicki is an ex-cop turned private investigator who is having a hard time cutting her ties to the police department. She loved her job, and she was good at, but she has a rare disorder where she is slowly losing her vision.  She doesn't let this slow her down, however.  When she hears a strange scream in the subway, she immediately runs to help and finds a young man with his throat torn out.  He is the latest victim in a series of similar crimes and the newspapers start screaming about a killer vampire on the loose.  While she is investigating, she finds a vampire - the illegitimate son of King Henry VIII, romance writer Henry Fitzroy.  Together they track down the killer...<br />I was expecting this book to be better than it was because of all of the great reviews.  I am a big fan of Laurell Hamilton's earlier books and this book just didn't come close.  The characters were likeable enough: I enjoyed a female heroine who had definite weaknesses, but went for it all the same; a 450-year old vampire who writes bodice rippers for a living and still hates his father for not accepting him; a dweeby nerd who is a great villain, etc.  Still, the world just didn't come to life and I kept waiting for something to happen.<br />Bottom line, worth your while to read, but maybe you would like to find a library copy...	2002-07-22
US	46905518	R2D2CK4IXAL9CC	0590446282	868623692	Life Without Friends	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What Would Happen If You Were A Killer's Girlfriend?	Beverly is a typical seventeen year old teenager who lives with her father (a Harvard professor), her stepmother (a \\"hippie child\\") and her stepbrother Oliver, an adorable 5 year-old.  She goes to an upscale private school and used to date one of the handsomest, most popular guys in school.  She gets straight A's and is at the top of her class.  The only problem is, she is a witness for the prosecution at the trial of her ex-boyfriend for murdering a girl at school and attempting to murder two other students.<br />This book tells the story of how Beverly tries to live a \\"Life without Friends\\" because she feels that she doesn't deserve them.  She often wishes that her ex-boyfriend had killed her instead so that she wouldn't have to put her family through the spectacle of a murder trial.  However, she accidentally meets a guy in the park named Derek and becomes friends with him.  Beverly is very scared of trying to love someone again and pushes Derek away every chance she gets, but she really likes being around him...<br />Eventually, Beverly & Derek do get together and Ellen Emerson White takes us through Beverly's changing relationship with her father, her stepmother, her new boyfriend and her psychologist and shows us that there are always people who love you, no matter what happens.<br />Although this book is written for teens and children, I think that it is wonderful and I have read and re-read it many times.  Beverly is such a likeable character and most girls will identify with her low self-esteem and her desire to change her life.  The characters are well developed and fun to get to know.  I especially enjoyed Beverly and her interaction with the people around her.  She has an offbeat sense of humor and often makes the reader laugh during the telling of the story.  I highly recommend this book for any female who is looking for a nice romance with a more serious undertone.	2002-07-12
US	46905518	R2A2ZW2TNF0QS4	0345380657	911536288	Prince of Ill Luck (Warhorse of Esdragon, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Fun, High-Fantasy Romp Through Esdragon!	The Prince of Ill Luck is the story of Leith, Prince of the Isles, whom everyone believes was born &quot;demon-cursed.&quot;  Everywhere he goes, disaster follows in his wake: earthquakes, boats capsizing, buildings collapsing, etc.  When he is the sole survivor of a shipwreck, he has no idea where he is, no money, no food, nothing.  Then he finds Valadan, a magical warhorse wandering the interior of the isle.  With Valadan's help, he is able to win the hand of the duke's daughter...but Kessallandria never intended to be won.  So Leith strikes a bargain with her - he won't hold her to her promise of marriage if he can come with her to find her mother, a witch, whom he hopes can lift his curse.  This is the inauspicious beginning to a grand adventure between a headstrong young lady searching for her mother, a witch, and exploring her own powers, and the Prince of the Isles, whose deplorably bad luck follows him wherever he goes.<br />This was a superb novel.  The story was finely crafted, the characters were full of life and fun to get to know, the Isle of Esdragon became real to the reader, in short, it had absolutely everything a fantasy could wish for - and it was funny, too!  I highly recommend searching this book out and buying it, you will not regret it!	2002-07-12
US	46905518	R5MGWXNDGDQP0	0441007899	323847957	King's Cure	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Dying King & the Cure that May Save Him...	This is the fifth book in the Liam Rhenford/Fanuilh (Liam's dragon familiar) series and continues Daniel Hood's fabulous fantastical mystery series.  In this tale, we join Liam in Torquay, the nation's capitol.  He has been charged with delivering a package for the Duke and rather resents his position of errand boy.  But Liam quickly realizes that this is no ordinary package.  In short order he is accused of two murders, the disappearance of his friend, attacking the Chief of the Peacemakers (Police), treason and much more!  When Liam realizes that he is carrying one of the legendary treasures of the Empire, the King's Cure, and that it may be the only thing standing between the dying King and death's door, he is in a race against time to get the potion delivered to the King.  The only problem is - who is his enemy and who can he trust?<br />This is simply a fabulous book.  For those of you who enjoy mysteries, this is a great fantasy to start with.  And for those of you who enjoy fantasy, this is a great fantasy and a great mystery.  Daniel Hood has a beautiful writing style, very clear and easy to follow, yet full of evocative descriptions and details.  Hood's characters are very well developed and the reader can immediately identify with them.  Although this book is part of a series, this one can easily stand on its own as all of the characters (except Liam and Rhenford) are new and Hood does an excellent job of giving just enough background information for new readers to understand, but not so much that dedicated fans get bored.  Most of Hood's books are out of print, but they are readily available through used books stores and are well worth the little bit of time and effort needed to hunt them down.  Buy this book - you won't regret it!	2002-07-10
US	46905518	R3RWFHQFBXL46M	0441005152	587849211	Scales of Justice	Books	5	9	9	N	N	4th Book in the Liam Rhenford/Faniulh Series	In this book, Liam leaves the town of Southwark to investigate crimes on the court circuit in an official capacity as one of the Duke's Quaestors.  His first town involves two capital crimes: A brother and his wife charged with conjuring a demon to kill his brother and a wizard found dead in his bed with a hideous smile stretched across his face.  Liam is able to solve the crimes and the court travels to the next city.  But, as they travel, Liam begins to feel that all is not right in the court.  His fellow Quaestor, in particular, is acting suspiciously.  Before Liam knows it, he is accused and convicted of summoning a demon to kill the Duke's Aedile!  How Liam solves the mystery and saves himself is an action pacted adventure that you won't want to miss!<br />Once again, Daniel Hood has used superb characterization and wonderfully evocative language to bring his fantasy world to life.  The characters are very three-dimensional and are normal people with strengths and weaknesses.  This book stands alone (and Hood does a splendid job at giving new readers a quick synopsis of previous adventures when necessary), but will reward dedicated fans with more fascinating glimpses into Liam Rhenford's cloudy past.  Take the time to find and buy this book - you will love it!	2002-07-04
US	46905518	R2F0EXD7ZZKT6P	0441004342	793548336	Beggar's Banquet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Priceless Jewel Stolen...	This is the third book in Hood's series about Liam Rhenford and his dragon familiar, Faniulh.  This story takes place a short two months after Wizard's Heir, just enough time for Liam to get bored.  Liam's friend, the Aedile, recommends Liam to widowed Mistress Priscian as a merchant partner.  Then a mage shows up at his door to hide from the Wizard's Guild and to go through Tarquin's things.  The next morning, a body with his throat cut washes up on Liam's beach.  Liam brings the body to the Aedile and finds that Mistress Priscian's priceless family heirloom, the Priscian Jewel, has been stolen.  The story catches Liam's interest and he volunteers to investigate the mysterious theft - all of the suspects have a motive, but who did it?  In short order, Liam finds himself embroiled in a duel, receiving invitations from rich, bored women, mingling with the &quot;upper crust&quot;, hunting down thieves and beggars and trying to keep his houseguest happy!<br />Another thrilling adventure with Liam and Faniulh!  If you love fantasy and mystery, then this is a great series for you.  Once again, Daniel Hood uses superb characterization and beautiful detail to bring the land of Southwark to life.  Find this book - you will not want to miss it!	2002-07-03
US	46905518	R13D16I4SL0HC5	0441002315	200849509	Wizard's Heir	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Fantasy Whodunit!	Wizard's Heir continues the tale of the adventures of Liam Rhenford and his dragon familiar, Fanuilh.  Liam awakens one morning to find that three of the magical artifacts left to him by the wizard Tarquin have been stolen - but how? and why?  He reports the theft to his friend, the Aedile (the Sheriff), but he has his own problems.  Someone tried to rob the temple of one of the new gods in town.  Liam decides to investigate his own theft because the Aedile is too busy.  Little does he know that this will lead to infiltrating the Thieves' Guild, a ghost wandering around in search of his body, a master swordsman with an incurable disease, and a caged gryphon...<br />This was a fabulous book in that Daniel Hood continues his excellent development of characters and beautiful writing style.  The story was easy to follow (maybe a little too easy...), but full of fascinating characters and descriptions.  Buy the book A Familiar Dragon and get the first three books in one hardbound edition (available used online for about half the price of a normal hardbound) - it is well worth your time and effort!	2002-07-02
US	46905518	RC7LL26BTPP88	044100055X	595681098	Fanuilh	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Fantasy Murder Mystery!	When one of Liam's few friends/acquaintances (a wizard) is murdered in his bed, the wizard's familiar bites him on the leg and steals part of his soul.  So begins the partnership between Liam Rhenford, a traveler/soldier/poet/historian, and Faniulh, a dog-sized dragon.  Faniulh promises to teach Liam some simple spells and such in return for finding Tarquin's (the wizard) murderer.<br />The story isn't long and is quite simple, yet very engaging.  The characters are well-fleshed out and cared for and it was fun to read a mystery story in a fantasy setting.  This book is the first in the series and comes as part of a trilogy in A Dragon Familiar.  If you enjoy fantasy and mystery this is the perfect book for you!	2002-07-01
US	46905518	R3VF74VV9TSLMM	0886777356	469250179	The Stone Prince (Branion series, Book 1)	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Fascinating Characters, Intriguing World, But a Little Slow	The Stone Prince is the story of Prince Demnor and his Companion, Kelahnus.  Demnor has been taught by his mother that only flawed vessels show emotion and have feelings for others.  And flawed vessels crack under pressure.  When he was sixteen, Demnor fell in love with Kelahnus, but they were separated by his mother's command.  Demnor eventually wins Kelahnus back, but then he is forced into marriage with the Duke Isolde.  Despite Demnor's affection for his male companion, he starts to have feelings for the beautiful Isolde.  When Demnor's mother is suddenly murdered, he becomes the Vessel of the Flame.  As the Vessel of the Flame, Demnor is the political and religious head of the country (think Louis XIV) and is almost worshipped as a Deity.  Just when Demnor begins to gain control of his kingdom, one of their conquered territories rebels (think Scotland v. England) and Demnor is drawn into war. There he has the opportunity to prove himself and to make peace with his mother.<br />The characters in this novel were intriguing, especially since there really was no gender role separation.  Males and females are both referred to as Prince, Duke, etc.  It was a refreshing change and interesting to see Patton's concept of gender equality.  Demnor is a classic flawed hero in that he has weaknesses and makes mistakes, but he has loyal companions, such as Kelahnus and later Isolde, whom Demnor eventually learns to trust and feel for.<br />The School of the Companions was also an interesting concept.  There the most beautiful and talented youths in the kingdom are trained in politics, court manners, sex and assasinations.  Every noble has their own Companion, or several Companions.  The nobles never sleep alone.  The Companions are not supposed to fall in love and their ultimate loyalty belongs to the School of the Companions.  One of the subplots of the book is Kelahnus' inner struggle as he tries to keep himself from falling in love with Demnor and to stay loyal to his teachers and his school.<br />The reason why I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 is that it is a little slow at times and can be confusing as the author jumps back and forth between past and present and different characters.  Also, it was a disappointment that Kelahnus was potrayed as a typical gay male - jumping from bed partner to bed partner, always concerned with his looks, etc.  Still, it was a very enjoyable read and recommended.eachers and his school.<br />The reason why I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 is that it is a little slow at times and can be confusing as the author jumps back and forth between past and present and different characters.  Also, it was a disappointment that Kelahnus was potrayed as a typical gay male - jumping from bed partner to bed partner, always concerned with his looks, etc.  Still, it was a very enjoyable read and recommended.	2002-06-26
US	46905518	R1THR46KY3P1F5	1892065169	62811729	Kirith Kirin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enter the World of the Twice-Named...	Jessex is a normal boy who grew up as all little boys do, but he soon was called upon to enter the service of the exiled king.  There he fulfilled prophecy after prophecy and was trained to be a wizard or Thaanarc.  When his training is complete, he is immediately thrust into battle against an evil wizard who has ruled the kingdom for far too many lifetimes.  At his side are the king, Kirith Kirin, and the other twice-named. The twice-named can be killed, but if they are not killed in battle, poisoned, etc., then they live forever.  This is the story of their battle to regain the kingdom of Arthyn for Kirith Kirin.<br />Jim Grimsley does a superb job on crafting a completely different world.  He creates a richly textured land complete with details as to how magic works, how different races came to be and how the land is ruled.  The details really make this world come alive and helps the reader understand all of the subtle ramifications that come from one small act.<br />This book is written as a type of personal history that Jessex wrote long after all of this happened and, as such, is written in third person instead of the more active first person.  This is a bit disorienting at first, but the reader soon adjusts and is captivated all the same.<br />Take a chance on this novel - you will come to love the world and the characters.  Hopefully Jim Grimsley will be inspired to write more fantasy novels that seem as real as this one.	2002-06-14
