US	46961402	R3FP87329DS2N9	0399238859	946991350	America the Beautiful	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Magnificently illustrated version of American anthem	Wendell Minor has been busy this year, having illustrated picture books documenting 2 American heroes, which were published only a few months apart.  INTO THE WOODS and RACHEL tell the stories of patriots, John James Audubon and Rachel Carson, respectively, who struggled to preserve the beauty and health of their native land.  Now Mr. Minor has produced another picture book of equal radiance, focusing on the country that those heroes, and he, obviously love.  The author is, like Audubon and Carson, another American legend, Katharine Lee Bates.  Although her name is not familiar to many people, the poem she wrote certainly is.  Here the entire song--not just the first few lines that most Americans have memorized--is emblazoned above Mr. Minor's spectacular paintings.  Were she alive today, Ms. Bates would surely find this book comparable to the beauty of the country she wrote about in the first place.  AMERICA depicts not only the \\"purple mountains\\" and \\"amber waves of grain\\" of the first stanza, but breathtaking landscapes from every corner of the nation.  The monumental natural landmarks--enormous cliffs of the West, Niagara Falls, the Grand Tetons--are shown as well as quieter, but equally striking, scenes of farmers harvesting wheat in Iowa and steamboats pushing across the mist-shrouded Mississippi River.  Even the light beams in Manhattan where the World Trade Center once stood are captured forever in an elegant painting.  AMERICA allows readers to visit the most far-flung and spectacular areas of the nation in only 5 minutes, so realistic and compelling are the illustrations.  And seeing Bates's poem in its entirety will rekindle readers' feelings for our musical heritage, no matter how many patriotic tunes they've heard since 9/11.  This book is a dignified and vibrant testimony to the greatness of this nation, worthy of being shared with all kinds of patriots, young and old, for years and years.	2003-07-12
US	46961402	R2YV13TRUDHD5K	0152162275	695945966	Rachel: The Story of Rachel Carson	Books	5	17	19	N	N	An inspirational story of a courageous environmentalist	Rachel Carson is most often remembered simply as the author of a groundbreaking book that initiated the modern environmental movement.  Surprisingly, it is a picture book--traditionally thought of as trivial children's entertainment--that offers the most engrossing and insightful view into the life of, not just an author, but an extraordinary person.  We follow Rachel from her discovery of her first fossil at age five, through her years as a student and biologist at Woods Hole Laboratory, as she writes her fascinating books about the ocean, right on up to the publication of \\"Silent Spring\\" and her death soon after.  Amy Ehrlich introduces her to us like a good friend.  She discusses the most significant years of her life with short yet informative text.  Her captivating writing is accompanied by paintings by well-known jacket artist and picture book illustrator Wendell Minor.  As he did with another recent picture book biography, INTO THE WOODS: JOHN JAMES AUDUBON LIVES HIS DREAM, Mr. Minor has managed to capture the personality of his subject with great accuracy and care.  One moment we are sitting beside Rachel as she peers at paramecium through a microscope; a few pages later she is standing on a mossy inlet protruding into the sea under a full yellow moon.  The illustrations are given as much detail and consideration as Rachel put into her books.  Their beauty is just as memorable as is Rachel's actual story; at the end, one cannot help but feel their spirits lifted upon viewing the picture of Rachel gazing up at a flock of monarch butterflies lifting into a clear blue sky.  Both the author and the illustrator have done a fabulous job honoring and sharing the life of this fascinating woman with readers young and old.  If you know an aspiring young naturalist or have long admired Rachel Carson yourself, this book is worth treasuring.  Although we have come a long way from the widespread pesticide use and careless environmental contamination of Rachel's day, there is still much work to be done.  RACHEL is just the kind of book to influence someone to help and persevere with their cause, whatever that may be.  Rachel's courage--from facing fierce criticism after the publication of \\"Silent Spring\\" and battling cancer--are inspirational and should ring true with all readers of this book.  It's hard to admire Rachel without thinking of another pioneer in the American environmental movement, so check out the recently published INTO THE WOODS, about Audubon, as well; you won't be disappointed by either.is still much work to be done.  RACHEL is just the kind of book to influence someone to help and persevere with their cause, whatever that may be.  Rachel's courage--from facing fierce criticism after the publication of \\"Silent Spring\\" and battling cancer--are inspirational and should ring true with all readers of this book.  It's hard to admire Rachel without thinking of another pioneer in the American environmental movement, so check out the recently published INTO THE WOODS, about Audubon, as well; you won't be disappointed by either.	2003-03-25
US	46961402	RER4CGUS4SVGK	0689830408	923894701	Into the Woods: John James Audubon Lives His Dream	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Lovely Tribute to the Father of American Bird Conservation	This beautiful picture book is a real treat for any admirer, young or old, of nature and the work of John James Audubon.  From first page to last, it is a tribute to an extraordinary man who had a passion for America's wilderness, as well as to the wilderness itself.  Robert Burleigh tells the story of the pioneering environmentalist through an imaginary rhyming letter to his father, with accompanying excerpts from Audubon's journals.  Wendell Minor, a renowned jacket artist and distinguished picture book illustrator, enlivens the text with some of his finest work, which is complemented by a few of Audubon's original paintings.  Mr. Minor portrays the curious woodsman as he rambles through sun-dappled forests, investigates a cormorant's nest on the side of a rocky cliff, and admires the untamed spirit of a temporarily captive hawk.  Later on, the story's tone changes from carefree revelry to a heartfelt plea for wilderness preservation, as Audubon mourns the loss of the woodlands and the birds he holds so dear.  While holding a dying pigeon in his hands he remarks: \\"And as I watched it die I knew/The world I love is passing too.  And I must paint it all because/We need this memory of what was. . .\\"  These inspiring words are accompanied by some poignant pictures of a flock of now-extinct passenger pigeons--once the most populous bird in the world--streaming across the sky, and a once-mighty forest reduced to stumps.  There is a hopeful note in the story, as well: \\"But listen, now, from every tree/I hear them calling out to me: The crow's ka-kow, the lark's ti-ti/The warbler and the chickadee.\\"  In order to preserve nature, we must first appreciate even the smallest aspects of it, from the the mighty bald eagle to the tiny chickadee.  The book leaves one with a sense of hope about the conservation movement and a refreshed passion for the outdoors, especially birds, which are so plentiful and so striking in this country.  With his paintings Mr. Minor has skillfully captured the personality of the man and the beauty of the birds he loved, and Mr. Burleigh has brought poetic words to help us remember Audubon not just as the vanguard in the American conservation movement, a mere icon of history books, but as a true woodsman who loved this country and its wilderness with his whole heart.  INTO THE WOODS makes a lovely gift for any aspiring naturalist of age 8 to a lifelong birder of age 80.  Pick up a copy for the child in your life and one for yourself.  Also be sure to check out another new picture book, RACHEL: THE STORY OF RACHEL CARSON, which, like INTO THE WOODS, tells the story of a pioneering American environmentalist and is wonderfully illustrated by Wendell Minor.ptured the personality of the man and the beauty of the birds he loved, and Mr. Burleigh has brought poetic words to help us remember Audubon not just as the vanguard in the American conservation movement, a mere icon of history books, but as a true woodsman who loved this country and its wilderness with his whole heart.  INTO THE WOODS makes a lovely gift for any aspiring naturalist of age 8 to a lifelong birder of age 80.  Pick up a copy for the child in your life and one for yourself.  Also be sure to check out another new picture book, RACHEL: THE STORY OF RACHEL CARSON, which, like INTO THE WOODS, tells the story of a pioneering American environmentalist and is wonderfully illustrated by Wendell Minor.	2003-03-24
US	46961402	R2ZFJI69JNNQFG	0679502297	960916214	Beastly Inventions	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Surprising Investigation Into How Smart Animals Really Are	In one of her few books for older audiences, Newbery Medalist and naturalist Jean Craighead George details the fascinating life habits of dozens of clever creatures the world over.  Ms. George's inherent sense of wonder for everything wild, and her impressive background, lead her to write a well-researched and detailed book (she has a degree from Penn State in science and English and comes from a well-known family of wildlife professionals--her father, Frank Craighead, Sr., was an entomologist, and her twin brothers were the vanguards of the art of falconry before they became the world's leading grizzly bear experts).  At a glance, it looks like it could be a rather dry read--but once you dive in to the book, it's hard to put it down.  If there's a bizarre mammal, insect, bird, or fish out there, chances are, it's in this book.  From amoebae to zebra fish, every miraculous species is introduced to the reader with cheerful, informative text and Ms. George's own line drawings.  This is a great book anyone interested in animal behavior; the ways creatures travel, court each other, reproduce, build homes, care for young, hunt and eat, defend themselves, and live with humanity are presented with many colorful examples.  Published in 1970--only a year after the first moon landing--the book has a negligible amount of erroneous information.  The main change from then to now is the number of women taking part in scientific achievement.  While I believe this argument is generally unnecessary, it does seem like the word \\"man\\" is used too often in place of \\"humans\\" or \\"people.\\"  The fact that it was written by a woman is important, since Ms. George battled sexism the first years of her writing career in the 1940s.  She would go on to win the highest honor in children's American literature for JULIE OF THE WOLVES, another well-researched and elegantly written read, and her MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN remains an unforgettable classic.  To this day, Ms. George is still turning out spectacular works.  Each one is filled with the lyrical prose of an experienced pioneer on the scientific frontier, and BEASTLY INVENTIONS is an important title on her long list of books of this kind.ctacular works.  Each one is filled with the lyrical prose of an experienced pioneer on the scientific frontier, and BEASTLY INVENTIONS is an important title on her long list of books of this kind.	2002-10-12
US	46961402	R1HV4DERJX73ZF	0064409953	543230563	Summer Moon (Seasons of the Moon)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Stunning Conclusion to an Acclaimed Series	SUMMER MOON concludes the SEASONS OF THE MOON series, which was originally published as the THIRTEEN MOONS series in the 1960's, and thirty years later in beautiful harcover editions with new illustrations.  For the first time ever, the books are available in paperback, condensed from thirteen separate books to four volumes each containing three stories.  Critically acclaimed naturalist and author Jean Craighead George writes with the same detailed and intriguing prose as was found in her Newbery Medal- winning classic JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.  Her love for animals shines through in these detailed accounts of North American species whose lives revolve around the seasonal changes of the moon.  In SUMMER MOON we first meet a bumbling family of fox pups, who are learning from their parents how to become good hunters.  The pups' lessons are filled with humor and insight into fox life.  We see them develop from playful youngsters to elegant adolescents, while at the same time learning about the habitat of their sparkling Pennsylvania home, filled with singing birds and flowers bursting into June bloom.  Next, we are taken from the Northeast to the scorching Sonoran desert of Arizona, where a lost peccary piglet wanders under towering cacti and over sizzling earth, trying to find his close-knit family.  A thunderstorm is rolling ominously toward the piglet, and he, like the other animals of the desert, must prepare for the sudden, short-lived, and violent torrents that are approaching.  The Arizona desert is depicted so well, you can practically feel the heat waves, and you learn that pigs, which may seem unlikely heroes, are affectionate family members and intelligent, interesting creatures.  Finally, the moon of August is hanging above a herd of elk making their way down a rocky slope in Washington state, unaware that they are being watched by the fiery eyes of a lone mountain lion.  The predator stalks quietly through the hemlock forests until he happens upon a couple of orphaned young lions and abandons his solitary life.  The setting of the great mountain peaks is dramatic and eerie.  You may learn a new respect for this beautiful and misunderstood predator.  SUMMER MOON, like the other books in the series, is a satisfying read that will leave you with a graphic picture of the featured environments and have you carrying fresh and accurate knowledge of wildlife.  Check out the other books in the series as well as Ms. George's other stunning nature stories.  You may want to listen to Chris Kubie's charming accompanying CD MUSIC OF THE THIRTEEN MOONS as you read.e happens upon a couple of orphaned young lions and abandons his solitary life.  The setting of the great mountain peaks is dramatic and eerie.  You may learn a new respect for this beautiful and misunderstood predator.  SUMMER MOON, like the other books in the series, is a satisfying read that will leave you with a graphic picture of the featured environments and have you carrying fresh and accurate knowledge of wildlife.  Check out the other books in the series as well as Ms. George's other stunning nature stories.  You may want to listen to Chris Kubie's charming accompanying CD MUSIC OF THE THIRTEEN MOONS as you read.	2002-06-14
US	46961402	R1K4ANEJRM3RXI	0064421716	97175708	Spring Moon (Seasons of the Moon)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Beautiful Springtime Stories from JULIE OF THE WOLVES author	Continuing the four-part series that began with AUTUMN MOON and WINTER MOON, Newbery Medalist Jean Craighead George writes vivid accounts of North American wildlife as their lives revolve around the seasonal changes of the moon.  Originally published in the 1960s, and later reprinted with a new design and illustrations in the early 90's, the THIRTEEN MOONS were not widely read, perhaps because they were in hardcover.  Now, with the early 90's versions compressed into paperback books, maybe the books will draw more attention, from school groups learning about nature to the most avid reader.  The series title has changed from THIRTEEN MOONS to SEASONS OF THE MOON, and each book contains three stories, with colorful illustrations for reference.  SPRING MOON features a spotted salamander who, under the moon of March, is making his way from under rock crevices across the damp forest floor to a pond where he will perform an ancestral mating dance.  This gives readers a unique look into a world rarely described; the hidden life of an amphibian that has been around for 330 million years.  Next, comes a cheery story quite the opposite of the salamander's dark drama.  In Montana, a mother chickaree--a small red squirrel--is busy raising a brood of helpless youngsters while trying to defend her property from some hungry intruders--a magpie, a pack rat, a woodpecker.  The chickaree's screaming indignance is amusing, and it's fascinating to learn about the area of the mountainous Bitterroot River where she makes her home.  The last story is filled with tranquility and beauty as we learn about a monarch butterfly who is making the thousand-mile migration from her wintering area in Mexico all the way to Canada.  It's easy to imagine the graceful, fluttering movements of the butterfly as she crosses rivers, towns, and fields, performing her ultimate task, to lay eggs and pass on the legacy of the monarch.  I highly recommend this stunning book to anyone who enjoys studying the mammals, insects, and amphibians of America, and also to read the other books in the SEASONS OF THE MOON series.  Also, check out Chris Kubie's instrumental CD MUSIC OF THE THIRTEEN MOONS, which wonderfully captures the grace of Ms. George's words and the feeling of the animal life she describes.als, insects, and amphibians of America, and also to read the other books in the SEASONS OF THE MOON series.  Also, check out Chris Kubie's instrumental CD MUSIC OF THE THIRTEEN MOONS, which wonderfully captures the grace of Ms. George's words and the feeling of the animal life she describes.	2002-06-14
US	46961402	R19MKVV09SI81K	0060002603	208904863	Cliff Hanger	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Exciting new book, detailed and gripping	CLIFF HANGER is yet another remarkable picture book from the creative team of Jean Craighead George and Wendell Minor.  Ms. George is a naturalist and Newbery Medal-winning author who has been captivating children with her 80+ nature stories, like JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, for the past 54 years.  Mr. Minor is a one-of-a-kind artist who has created the covers for more than 2,000 works ranging from many different genres, and has illustrated many captivating picture books about animals and the wilderness.  The two have collaborated on a number of books, including EVERGLADES, a beautiful story about conserving an important environment, ARCTIC SON, about a young boy's life on the tundra near Barrow, Alaska, and MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT, describing the daily activities of wildlife extending from the East Coast to the West.  Each book is written with a lyrical, absorbing text, with outstanding watercolor paintings depicting the words.  CLIFF HANGER is the first in a series of adventure books for young readers (supposedly the age range is from 5-9, but I think this distinguished story would be appropriate for any age).  In it, we are drawn into a world of rocky cliffs, majestic peaks and dramatic skies--the Teton Mountains of Wyoming.  A storm is drawing near, filling the sky with ominous clouds, fierce lightning, and deep thunder.  A boy, Axel, is upset to learn that his dog, Grits, is at the top of Cathedral Wall, a towering rock in the middle of the bad storm.  Determined to rescue him before it's too late, Axel and his father hurry over to the huge cliff with their rock-climbing gear.  Bravely Axel starts up the sheer, treacherous cliff.  Will he make it to the top and be able to save Grits in time?  The peril of Axel's climb and his descent are wonderfully captured by Mr. Minor's artwork.  You feel like you're climbing alongside Axel with the elements raging around you, and as you head down to firm ground again, you fly through the air, the red walls of the cliff all around you.  This vivid depiction comes from the author's and illustrator's observations of Ms. George's family, the adventurous Craigheads, rock-climbing in Wyoming.  Unlike the other George/Minor books, the emphasis in CLIFF HANGER is not placed so strongly on conservation and wildlife, but more on a realistic adventure; however, a few traditional themes, like the exploration of an exciting new habitat (such as that found in their SNOW BEAR) or the special relationship between a kid and his canine friend (as you would find in another of Ms. George's picture books, NUTIK, THE WOLF PUP) are evident throughout the story.  All in all, CLIFF HANGER is a great read, a fresh new entry into the picture book world, and I eagerly look forward to the publication of the rest of the series.alls of the cliff all around you.  This vivid depiction comes from the author's and illustrator's observations of Ms. George's family, the adventurous Craigheads, rock-climbing in Wyoming.  Unlike the other George/Minor books, the emphasis in CLIFF HANGER is not placed so strongly on conservation and wildlife, but more on a realistic adventure; however, a few traditional themes, like the exploration of an exciting new habitat (such as that found in their SNOW BEAR) or the special relationship between a kid and his canine friend (as you would find in another of Ms. George's picture books, NUTIK, THE WOLF PUP) are evident throughout the story.  All in all, CLIFF HANGER is a great read, a fresh new entry into the picture book world, and I eagerly look forward to the publication of the rest of the series.	2002-05-22
US	46961402	R3MAVDP6CNHZLF	0060002549	389946770	Tree Castle Island	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A survival story in the tradition of MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN	I had been waiting a long time for the release of the newest novel by Jean Craighead George for several reasons.  One, I have been an avid reader of her books for a long time, two, it had been 3 years since she had published a novel, and three, the new book took place in my homeland of Georgia; to be more exact, the setting is the spectacular Okefenokee Swamp just north of the Georgia-Florida border.  I was not disappointed.  TREE CASTLE ISLAND is very special.  It is an intriguing book that has similarities to some classic adventure stories, while other aspects of it are fresher and broader.  In it, we meet a 14-year-old boy, Jack, who loves the outdoors, even though he lives in the big, busy city of Atlanta.  It is a treat for Jack to be able to visit his Uncle Hamp while his parents are in Europe.  Hamp, too, likes nature and allows Jack to be indepedent.  Soon Jack has fashioned a handsome homemade canoe he calls \\"L'tle Possum\\", and he sets out to do some exploring in the great habitat surrounding Uncle Hamp's home.  In a short time Jack (and the reader, too) has become enchanted with the vast Okefenokee.  When an accident damages \\"L'tle Possum\\", Jack must learn to fend for himself on an island.  Like Sam Gribley from the beloved MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN trilogy, Jack is a strong, industrious teenager.  While most kids might give up hope in such a predicament, Jack quickly takes control, turning the island into a liveable home.  While on the island, he makes some new animal friends--including a dog named Dizzy who looks strangely familiar--and discovers some bizarre mysteries.  There are clues that there is other life hanging around the island besides Jack; it's evident in the strange cries that echo throughout the swamp, the debris scattered around camp, and the odd behavior of Dizzy.  Then, one day, Jack meets a kid just like him; looks just like him, acts just like him, and thinks just like him, even has a name (Jake) like his!  Slowly the boys come to realize that they must be long-lost twins.  Frustrated with his parents for never telling him he was adopted, or that he had an identical brother, Jack decides to remain on the island with Jake.  The boys turn their camp into a paradise that any nature lover would envy, complete with a house in the trees, wild animals for companions, and catfish and plants for food.  The sights, sounds, and life of the swamp are wonderfully weaved into the plot, and even with such a unique situation, the realistic side of the story is never lost.  The book is moderately paced, rising to a gripping climax toward the end.  It makes a great read for people who are passionate about the swamplands or who, like me, would enjoy learning more about it.  I have lived in Georgia ten years and with TREE CASTLE ISLAND I still learned a great deal about the nearby Okefenokee and the people, wildlife, and legends of this state.  That's one of the great things about the books of Jean Craighead George--you learn something, or many new things, in each story.  If you enjoyed this book I would recommend MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, a 1959 Newbery Honor book that helps to prove that even after so long, Ms. George's adventure books have not lost their touch, and its sequels, ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN and FRIGHTFUL'S MOUNTAIN.  Each book gives a descriptive account of living as a beneficiary and a part of nature, sort of, Thoreau for kids.  THE TALKING EARTH is a beautiful book about a girl who, like Jack, paddles out into another place of trees, grass and water, the Everglades.  Also check out a stunning picture book called EVERGLADES, illustrated by Wendell Minor, the prolific artist who did the captivating cover of TREE CASTLE ISLAND (the team also have a great new picture book out, entitled CLIFF HANGER).  Read any one of Ms. George's stunning books--whether a survival story like TREE CASTLE ISLAND, a picture book like EVERGLADES, or an epic like the JULIE OF THE WOLVES trilogy--and you are sure to be dazzled by your new knowledge and understanding of a natural treasure.zled by your new knowledge and understanding of a natural treasure.	2002-05-18
US	46961402	R3GPNFI64GL91H	0439192781	211150143	Grand Canyon: Exploring a Natural Wonder	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exploring a Natural Wonder	Renowned author and illustrator Wendell Minor takes readers on an extraordinary journey in the picture book GRAND CANYON.  Minor, who has graced book covers with his art for more than twenty-five years, is also one of the most revered children's book illustrators around.  He's done collaborations with Newbery Award-winning author Jean Craighead George, including EVERGLADES, ARCTIC SON, and the soon-to-be-published CLIFFHANGER, as well as critically acclaimed books with Eve Bunting, Anne Turner, and Charlotte Zolotow.  Now, he tells of his experiences in one of America's most celebrated natural treasures, with lyrical text and stunning watercolors.  For twelve days he spent time on the South Rim of the canyon, sketching and painting the huge rocks, the dramatic skies, and the abundant wildlife in the area.  The colors are rich and intense, yet at the same time peaceful, perfectly complementing the words.  You feel as if you're right there, standing over the canyon with space all around you.  This is an excellent introduction for kids to a magnificent place, and even if, like me, you've never visited the Grand Canyon, you'll feel as if you were taking the journey and living the experience, too.	2002-03-26
US	46961402	R2N64H0GNCXJ2E	0156002124	94420778	Wendell Minor: Twenty-Five Years Of Book Cover Art	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Spectacular collection of award-winning cover art	I first fell in love with the art of Wendell Minor while I was reading books by the children's nature writer Jean Craighead George.  Spectacular watercolor art added a new dimension to Ms. George's stories about the Arctic (like ARCTIC SON and SNOW BEAR), the Everglades (EVERGLADES), great horned owls (THE MOON OF THE OWLS), and wildlife throughout the country (MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT).  In each new book that I read, the colors were rich and the illustrations accurately portrayed the worlds which the author was describing.  Then, as I came to recognize Minor's distinct, one-of-a-kind type of art, his work suddenly began to show up everywhere, in innumberable picture books and emblazoned on book covers.  Now many of the book jackets in the bookstores and libraries don't seem as if they're scattered around in disorginization, out of view because the spines are facing outward on the shelves, or hard to find because the book might have gone out-of-print.  That's because, to my relief and delight, there's a whole book of Wendell Minor's book jackets that have been compiled over the past twenty-five years.  ART FOR THE WRITTEN WORD contains more than 100 of Minor's astounding watercolor, acrylic, and oil paintings.  His distinguished work has appeared on a wide range of novels--fiction, nonfiction, biographies, thrillers, humor, cookbooks, natural history--many of them well-known stories by some bestselling authors.  The artwork is reproduced in full-color on the oversized pages.  There are pictures of famous people, houses, landscapes, wildlife, midwestern farms, towns, cities, wide open skies, automobiles, and scenes from the stories behind the covers.  All of them are carefully rendered, detailed and thoughtful.  You can look at a painting many times and each time notice something new.  Along with the gallery of artwork, there's plenty of commentary from the people who wrote the stories that lie between the covers.  Most of the authors' comments are filled with admiration and gratitude that the literature they spent so much time creating wasn't marred by an ugly or false jacket illustration.  Some of the authors whose book covers are featured include David McCullough (who writes an excellent introduction), Ray Bradbury, Harper Lee, Garrison Keillor, Sherman Alexie, Mildred D. Taylor, Eve Bunting, Mary Higgins Clark, Pat Conroy, Toni Morrison, Patricia MacLachlan, Martin Cruz Smith, Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, and countless others.  They all basically agree that they were proud and thankful that Wendell Minor did the covers for their books; he read the stories and researched his topics before making the illustrations and contributed to the success of their books.  Many of them have added his jacket art to their private collections, sworn never to discard a Wendell Minor book jacket, and shown off their \\"most prized possessions\\" to friends and family.  Some comments are just gushing with elation, like two letters, placed 17 years apart, from John Jerome, who was obviously delighted that Minor so accurately depicted the blue pick-up truck for his book TRUCK.  Garrison Keillor lends his kind of \\"Prairie Home Companion\\" lightness to his story of the covers for his books WE ARE STILL MARRIED and WLT: A RADIO ROMANCE.  Some illustrations--like the ones for Nancy Price's SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY and C.J. Koch's THE DOUBLEMAN--seem to have almost subliminal meanings.  WHERE ARE THE CHILDREN? and Brooks Stanwood's THE SEVENTH CHILD are quite frightening, while W.P. Kinsella's THE DIXON CORNBELT LEAGUE and Bill Bryson's THE LOST CONTINENT are breezy and pleasant.  The varieties are endless; for example, the illustration for Timothy Findley's HEADHUNTER is completely different from Jim Shepard's PAPER DOLL.  But, in my opinion, the illustrations that really stand out are the landscapes, which Minor always embraces in his picture books and in the book covers for Laura Kalpakian's THESE LATTER DAYS, THE PRINCE OF TIDES, and countless others.  You can tell just by looking at any one of his big skies, rolling ocean, or blue mountain pictures that Wendell Minor is someone who has a passion for America's great lands, from Alaska to Florida.  In each painting you feel like you're there, either watching a mockingbird fly from a tree, as a sliver of moon rises, like you're hearing the cicadas buzzing on a hot southern night, as in Harper Lee's classic TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.  Or you're racing through the woods on a snowy winter night with a red fox, as in Eve Bunting's children's book RED FOX RUNNING.  And if you're not there, you'll certainly want to be.  It's a wonderful feeling to look at a painting like that that is so real, so familiar, so close.  In the end, the only wrong thing I can see in this book is that there is not another one like it; there are dozens of book covers that weren't included in this collection, and there are still more coming out every month it seems!  Still, as I've said earlier, part of the excitement of seeing a Wendell Minor cover is the surprise and the immediate recognization of his unique style when you're browsing through a bookstore or a library.  It is my hope that someday I might write a book with a Wendell Minor cover to enliven its face.	2002-03-02
US	46961402	R1R5OS6AR5N5Z8	0156002124	94420778	Wendell Minor: Twenty-Five Years Of Book Cover Art	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Spectacular collection of award-winning cover art	I first fell in love with the art of Wendell Minor while I was reading books by the children's nature writer Jean Craighead George.  Spectacular watercolor art added a new dimension to Ms. George's stories about the Arctic (like ARCTIC SON and SNOW BEAR), the Everglades (EVERGLADES), great horned owls (THE MOON OF THE OWLS), and wildlife throughout the country (MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT).  In each new book that I read, the colors were rich and the illustrations accurately portrayed the worlds which the author was describing.  Then, as I came to recognize Minor's distinct, one-of-a-kind type of art, his work suddenly began to show up everywhere, in innumberable picture books and emblazoned on book covers.  Now many of the book jackets in the bookstores and libraries don't seem as if they're scattered around in disorginization, out of view because the spines are facing outward on the shelves, or hard to find because the book might have gone out-of-print.  That's because, to my relief and delight, there's a whole book of Wendell Minor's book jackets that have been compiled over the past twenty-five years.  ART FOR THE WRITTEN WORD contains more than 100 of Minor's astounding watercolor, acrylic, and oil paintings.  His distinguished work has appeared on a wide range of novels--fiction, nonfiction, biographies, thrillers, humor, cookbooks, natural history--many of them well-known stories by some bestselling authors.  The artwork is reproduced in full-color on the oversized pages.  There are pictures of famous people, houses, landscapes, wildlife, midwestern farms, towns, cities, wide open skies, automobiles, and scenes from the stories behind the covers.  All of them are carefully rendered, detailed and thoughtful.  You can look at a painting many times and each time notice something new.  Along with the gallery of artwork, there's plenty of commentary from the people who wrote the stories that lie between the covers.  Most of the authors' comments are filled with admiration and gratitude that the literature they spent so much time creating wasn't marred by an ugly or false jacket illustration.  Some of the authors whose book covers are featured include David McCullough (who writes an excellent introduction), Ray Bradbury, Harper Lee, Garrison Keillor, Sherman Alexie, Mildred D. Taylor, Eve Bunting, Mary Higgins Clark, Pat Conroy, Toni Morrison, Patricia MacLachlan, Martin Cruz Smith, Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, and countless others.  They all basically agree that they were proud and thankful that Wendell Minor did the covers for their books; he read the stories and researched his topics before making the illustrations and contributed to the success of their books.  Many of them have added his jacket art to their private collections, sworn never to discard a Wendell Minor book jacket, and shown off their \\"most prized possessions\\" to friends and family.  Some comments are just gushing with elation, like two letters, placed 17 years apart, from John Jerome, who was obviously delighted that Minor so accurately depicted the blue pick-up truck for his book TRUCK.  Garrison Keillor lends his kind of \\"Prairie Home Companion\\" lightness to his story of the covers for his books WE ARE STILL MARRIED and WLT: A RADIO ROMANCE.  Some illustrations--like the ones for Nancy Price's SLEEPING WITH THE ENEMY and C.J. Koch's THE DOUBLEMAN--seem to have almost subliminal meanings.  WHERE ARE THE CHILDREN? and Brooks Stanwood's THE SEVENTH CHILD are quite frightening, while W.P. Kinsella's THE DIXON CORNBELT LEAGUE and Bill Bryson's THE LOST CONTINENT are breezy and pleasant.  The varieties are endless; for example, the illustration for Timothy Findley's HEADHUNTER is completely different from Jim Shepard's PAPER DOLL.  But, in my opinion, the illustrations that really stand out are the landscapes, which Minor always embraces in his picture books and in the book covers for Laura Kalpakian's THESE LATTER DAYS, THE PRINCE OF TIDES, and countless others.  You can tell just by looking at any one of his big skies, rolling ocean, or blue mountain pictures that Wendell Minor is someone who has a passion for America's great lands, from Alaska to Florida.  In each painting you feel like you're there, either watching a mockingbird fly from a tree, as a sliver of moon rises, like you're hearing the cicadas buzzing on a hot southern night, as in Harper Lee's classic TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.  Or you're racing through the woods on a snowy winter night with a red fox, as in Eve Bunting's children's book RED FOX RUNNING.  And if you're not there, you'll certainly want to be.  It's a wonderful feeling to look at a painting like that that is so real, so familiar, so close.  In the end, the only wrong thing I can see in this book is that there is not another one like it; there are dozens of book covers that weren't included in this collection, and there are still more coming out every month it seems!  Still, as I've said earlier, part of the excitement of seeing a Wendell Minor cover is the surprise and the immediate recognization of his unique style when you're browsing through a bookstore or a library.  It is my hope that someday I might write a book with a Wendell Minor cover to enliven its face.ou can tell just by looking at any one of his big skies, rolling ocean, or blue mountain pictures that Wendell Minor is someone who has a passion for America's great lands, from Alaska to Florida.  In each painting you feel like you're there, either watching a mockingbird fly from a tree, as a sliver of moon rises, like you're hearing the cicadas buzzing on a hot southern night, as in Harper Lee's classic TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD.  Or you're racing through the woods on a snowy winter night with a red fox, as in Eve Bunting's children's book RED FOX RUNNING.  And if you're not there, you'll certainly want to be.  It's a wonderful feeling to look at a painting like that that is so real, so familiar, so close.  In the end, the only wrong thing I can see in this book is that there is not another one like it; there are dozens of book covers that weren't included in this collection, and there are still more coming out every month it seems!  Still, as I've said earlier, part of the excitement of seeing a Wendell Minor cover is the surprise and the immediate recognization of his unique style when you're browsing through a bookstore or a library.  It is my hope that someday I might write a book with a Wendell Minor cover to enliven its face.	2002-03-02
US	46961402	RZ5FNLNIMKCQ0	0064421708	598816379	Winter Moon (Seasons of the Moon)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Spectacular Nature Writing	Newbery Medal-winning naturalist and acclaimed author Jean Craighead George wrote a series of stories in the late 1960's entitled The Thirteen Moons.  Each of the thirteen books focused on a different wild animal struggling to survive in a different month of the year and a different part of the United States.  The books were: THE MOON OF THE ALLIGATORS, BEARS, CHICKAREES, DEER, FOX PUPS, MOLES, MONARCH BUTTERFLIES, MOUNTAIN LIONS, OWLS, SALAMANDERS, WILD PIGS, WINTER BIRD, and GRAY WOLVES (see my review of these books under THE MOON OF THE OWLS).  They had simple black-and-white drawings for illustrations and went out of print.  Then in the early nineties the books were republished in handsome hardcover versions, with spectacular full-color paintings to complement Ms. George's original writing.  Sadly, these books again went out of print.  But now the thirteen books have been republished!  They have been condensed into four paperbacks that revolve around the different seasons; AUTUMN MOON and WINTER MOON have already come out, SPRING and SUMMER MOON will be out in spring of 2002.  At last this enchanting nature writing has been made easily available.  The books are sure to be enjoyed by any person, young or old, who appreciates the natural world, its seasons, and its creatures.  WINTER MOON features four stories--THE MOON OF THE WINTER BIRD (December), MOLES (December-January), OWLS (January), and BEARS (February).  They are captivating and enjoyable, and very descriptive.  Each one resonates with the kind of chilly coziness, combined with a sense of gloom and antagonism, that comes in winter time.  You will shiver with the little song sparrow under the December moon; find your way through the underground darkness of a mole's lair; fly with the great horned owl through the Catskill Mountains; and wait for winter to be over with the hibernating black bear.  Ms. George's words are lively and interesting and will draw you right into the stories.  Also, some of the paintings from the early 90's versions of the books have been reproduced; however, they are not as fine quality to portray the scenes as wonderfully as they did in the out-of-print hardcover versions.  Still, it is nice that they were included in the new paperback books.  The colors are rich and accurate; I wish that more had been included.  Jean Craighead George has written almost 100 books for young naturalists, among them JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, the ONE DAY. . .series, and the ECO-MYSTERIES, so check these out as well.  Also, musician Chris Kubie has released a spellbinding CD of the Thirteen Moons entitled MUSIC OF THE THIRTEEN MOONS.  Read along with the music and you're sure to find a very enjoyable reading experience.tings from the early 90's versions of the books have been reproduced; however, they are not as fine quality to portray the scenes as wonderfully as they did in the out-of-print hardcover versions.  Still, it is nice that they were included in the new paperback books.  The colors are rich and accurate; I wish that more had been included.  Jean Craighead George has written almost 100 books for young naturalists, among them JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, the ONE DAY. . .series, and the ECO-MYSTERIES, so check these out as well.  Also, musician Chris Kubie has released a spellbinding CD of the Thirteen Moons entitled MUSIC OF THE THIRTEEN MOONS.  Read along with the music and you're sure to find a very enjoyable reading experience.	2002-01-31
US	46961402	R9ENGB0REQHXZ	0064421724	41175556	Autumn Moon (Seasons of the Moon)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A fine reproduction of beautiful nature stories	In 1969, the prestigious nature writer Jean Craighead George authored a series of thirteen books, each one focusing on a different season and an animal who survived during that time, all over the country.  The books were called THE THIRTEEN MOONS and featured THE MOON OF THE ALLIGATOR, BEAR, CHICKAREE, DEER, FOX PUPS, MOLE, MONARCH BUTTERFLY, MOUNTAIN LION, OWL, SALAMANDER, WILD PIG, WINTER BIRD, and GRAY WOLVES (see my review of these books under THE MOON OF THE OWLS).  These books featured simple black-and-white illustrations and went out of print.  Two decades later in 1992 they made a comeback with lavish color illustrations, though they retained their poetic wording and intriguing subjects.  But then the Thirteen Moons again went out of print.  Now, to avid nature lovers' and readers' delight, they are back!  The thirteen hardcover books have been compressed into four paperback ones, each one containing three or four stories about different animals, along with a few of the more recent color illustrations.  The titles have changed; instead of the Thirteen Moons the series is now, perhaps slightly less majestically, Seasons of the Moon.  AUTUMN MOON is the first to be released and features the MOON OF THE. . .DEER, ALLIGATORS, and GRAY WOLVES in their entirety.  These outstanding stories pitting wild animals against the elements of nature are unforgettable.  The descriptions are lively and very authentic.  You can really see the young spike buck as he flees from the hurricane of September, feel the October humidity of the Everglades with the Florida alligator, and feel the chill in the air as the gray wolves trek through Alaska searching for food in snowy November.  As for the illustrations, only a small portion of the ones from the reprinted 1992 versions are reproduced, and these hardly do the beautiful paintings any justice.  Still, they do add to the stories, and it's nice that they were included.  After reading AUTUMN MOON, be sure to read WINTER MOON, and SPRING and SUMMER MOON will be released in February of 2002.  Ms. George has written nearly 80 other books for young readers.  But the fineness of her nature writing is demonstrated in this amazing series.PRING and SUMMER MOON will be released in February of 2002.  Ms. George has written nearly 80 other books for young readers.  But the fineness of her nature writing is demonstrated in this amazing series.	2002-01-25
US	46961402	R13RJFQEZMCJQ4	0525420371	194003841	Vison, the Mink	Books	3	8	8	N	N	An old-fashioned wild animal story	In 1949, twenty years before she would go on to win the prestigious Newbery Medal for children's literature, Jean Craighead George wrote a series of animal stories with her husband, John George.  The first was an intriguing novel called VULPES THE RED FOX, which was recently reprinted in a paperback edition.  DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK was also reprinted a few years ago, but MASKED PROWLER: THE STORY OF A RACCOON, BUBO THE GREAT HORNED OWL, MEPH THE PET SKUNK, and VISON THE MINK remain out-of-print.  Each story follows basically the same plot; a wild animal lives in Maryland alongside a river, struggles to outwit predators, both wild and human, raises young, hunts, and ultimately dies.  These stories remain interesting because they are written so meticulously and poetically.  Each sentence is rich with a feeling of natural beauty.  You're always guaranteed to learn something new about the animals and their habitat featured in the books.  However, the parts focusing on humans often become rather tedious.  Every year in each book the same hunters, all with characteristic names like Buck Queen, Will Stacks, and Al Starcher, go out looking for a wild animal to trap or shoot.  In VISON a new character makes an entrance in the mink's life--Sam, the Old Negro of Red Sand Hill.  Sounds a bit dated, doesn't it?  In this day and age some people are bound to be offended by Sam.  VISON is an old-fashioned wilderness story, rich in folklore, but missing authenticity and realism.  Also, the vicious little mink will probably not be a very endearing character to many people, but keep in mind that the Georges did a very good job of not reading false human emotions into their wild characters.  I found VULPES THE RED FOX a far better story in many respects.  It also should be easier to find.  And remember that after Ms. George divorced her husband (who was later accused of taking too much credit for the couple's books; back in 1949 it was customary to put the male author's name first) she went on to write some of the most beloved nature stories of this century.  Read JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, or the many books Ms. George is turning out each year, and you'll have a much more satisfying read.went on to write some of the most beloved nature stories of this century.  Read JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, or the many books Ms. George is turning out each year, and you'll have a much more satisfying read.	2002-01-11
US	46961402	RBSXLCYI6QON1	0786803142	649775932	Dear Katie, the Volcano is a Girl	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good, not totally satisfying	This fine story is another example of Jean Craighead George's close bond with nature, elegant writing, and her grandchildren.  The Newbery Medal-winning author has written several picture books for her grandchildren--ARCTIC SON, a magnificent book, tells the story of her grandsons Luke and Sam who live in Alaska; DEAR REBECCA, WINTER IS HERE is written in the same format as DEAR KATIE, THE VOLCANO IS A GIRL, and that book, which I liked better, is the story of Katie's sister Rebecca asking the grandmother (Ms. George, we presume) what winter is all about.  DEAR KATIE, THE VOLCANO IS A GIRL, is an intriguing tale, in which Katie and her grandmother go to Hawaii to see the great Kilauea Volcano.  As the fire explodes around them, the grandmother remarks, &quot;A volcano is a geophysical phenomenon,&quot; to which young Katie responds, &quot;The volcano is a girl.&quot;  So begins a daylong quest to find the truth behind the mysteries of Kilauea.  Katie tells her grandmother the story that the native Hawaiians tell, of a fiery goddess who is mad at her sister, the tidal waves.  The grandmother insists that the secrets of the volcano is explained using pure science.  Following their journey, Daniel Powers's colorful illustrations go along nicely with Ms. George's writing.  Young children, especially, will find the pictures exciting.  In the end, the grandmother writes to Katie telling her that the legend and the scientists' story are the same.  Ms. George has a gift for sharing legends and culture with her readers--in her young adult novels, the JULIE OF THE WOLVES books, she describes with great detail the lives of Inupiat Eskimos, and in SHARK BENEATH THE REEF, the story of a little-known town in seaside Mexico.  If you're wondering why I gave this book only 3 stars, the reason is because I think Ms. George's other picture books are more satisfying.  I wouldn't recommend this book to people who love Ms. George's nature writing--her other picture books, such as the ones mentioned above, are better.  Of course, she has written almost 100 books for children, young adults, and even grown-ups, so there's an endless supply to choose from.s mentioned above, are better.  Of course, she has written almost 100 books for children, young adults, and even grown-ups, so there's an endless supply to choose from.	2001-12-11
US	46961402	RPWCHCOXF7YTF	0698113926	645970015	The First Thanksgiving (Picture Puffin Books)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Holiday Treat	Thanksgiving is given a new point of view and retelling in this very special picture book.  Jean Craighead George, the Newbery Medal-winning author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES, as well as nearly 100 distinguished nature books for young readers, presents the story of the first Thanksgiving with warmth, fascinating detail, and lyrical as well as informative storytelling.  Thomas Locker's colorful, classical paintings beautifully complement the author's words.  The story begins with the formation of Plymouth Rock, a huge, two-million year old glacial mass that comes to rest in Cape Cod.  Then the Pawtuxet tribe arrives, earning their living from the land, including Squanto, who is later captured by Englishmen and sold into slavery.  Across the ocean, Pilgrims seeking religious freedom set out on a perilous voyage to America.  Upon reaching the New World, they must deal with many hardships including disease, starvation, and death.  Still the Pilgrims endure.  In the springtime, Squanto, freed from slavery and now a member of another Indian tribe, arrives, bringing peace to the people of Plymouth.  He teaches them how to grow crops, catch fish, hunt deer and turkey, showing the Pilgrims the importance of respecting the land and using it wisely.  In 1621, after a bountiful harvest, a great celebratory feast takes place for three days, in which the people gather and eat and play games--the first Thanksgiving.  This story is a unique portrayal of historical events, always keeping the reader intrigued and awed, with its terrific writing and inspirational illustrations.  As she does in every one of her books, Jean Craighead George reminds us of the need to honor our natural resources and every living thing on the planet.  In this story, too, she sends a message of peace that will inspire every person and reach beyond one day in November, to give thanks every day for what we have.	2001-11-30
US	46961402	R1V2DSTXXFVXSY	0151422001	966287999	How to Talk to Your Animals	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Funny, Fascinating, and Fabulous Guide Like No Other	For as long as she's been writing (more than half a century now), Jean Craighead George has been studying the behavior of many animals that inhabit North America.  Her research on gray wolves is obvious in JULIE OF THE WOLVES, winner of the prestigious Newbery Medal, and its sequels JULIE and JULIE'S WOLF PACK, in which wolf communication, which extends farther than its famous howl, is brought to light in a new way, combining science with firsthand experience.  With the recent publication of the picture books HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG and HOW TO TALK TO YOUR CAT, adapted from this novel, Ms. George gives readers a new way to connect with their pets.  HOW TO TALK TO YOUR ANIMALS is one of Ms. George's few adult novels, although all ages should be able to learn something from it.  It was published in 1985 and is out of print.  The book is definitely one of Ms. George's most fascinating.  It delves into the world of animal communication in a very personal and enlightening way, showing the average person, without copious amounts of dry science, how to talk to the dog, cat, bird, and horse.  In the first chapter she gives a preface and explains why she wrote the book.  Then enters that wonderfully social and loyal animal, the dog.  Ms. George writes about the dog as she does no other animal, as if she is eternally intrigued with its life.  Those who have read JULIE'S WOLF PACK and HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG will know about alpha wolves, nose-sniffing, and play-bowing, but there's still much to be learned in this chapter.  After the dog comes a much different creature, the independent cat.  It's interesting to see how the cat's communication differs from the dog's.  Cats are solitary, and if dog-lovers are frustrated with the seeming snobbiness of felines, they may be turned around with this chapter, as I was, and feel more connection with them after they learn the secrets of head-bumping, the various meows, and movements that can be used when talking to our whiskered friends.  On to the birds, even different from dogs and cats in that they are not often domesticated.  Besides discussing how to talk to your cockatiel or parrot, Ms. George gives insight into how wild birds like sparrows communicate.  As a birder I learned some important information.  The horse chapter is an interesting read even if you're not a horse owner or rider, and if you are, you'll learn lots of helpful tips.  People usually don't give much credit to horses, they may think they don't talk and are boring, but as soon as you read this chapter, you'll be inspired to go out to the nearest farm and use the arm-around-the-neck move to signal friendship with a horse.  In the last chapter, Ms. George discusses the controversial and mysterious subject of animal communication.  Can animals talk?  It's up to you to decide.  I'm pretty sure this book, which is as funny and heartwarming as it is interesting, will help you come to a conclusion.On to the birds, even different from dogs and cats in that they are not often domesticated.  Besides discussing how to talk to your cockatiel or parrot, Ms. George gives insight into how wild birds like sparrows communicate.  As a birder I learned some important information.  The horse chapter is an interesting read even if you're not a horse owner or rider, and if you are, you'll learn lots of helpful tips.  People usually don't give much credit to horses, they may think they don't talk and are boring, but as soon as you read this chapter, you'll be inspired to go out to the nearest farm and use the arm-around-the-neck move to signal friendship with a horse.  In the last chapter, Ms. George discusses the controversial and mysterious subject of animal communication.  Can animals talk?  It's up to you to decide.  I'm pretty sure this book, which is as funny and heartwarming as it is interesting, will help you come to a conclusion.	2001-11-24
US	46961402	R1G0FPPNBKRF2B	0060215437	273767513	Animals Who Have Won Our Hearts	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great animal stories for all ages	From Jean Craighead George, the Newbery Medalist and renowned nature writer, comes a collection of heroic and uplifting animal stories. This author of more than eighty books shares her love and awe of our planet's creatures in this unique book. Some of the stories are familiar--like that of Balto, the courageous sled dog, the most famous of all canine heroes, or Koko, the gorilla who uses sign language, teaching us more about animal intelligence and the gentleness of her species. Other stories bring some not-so-famous animals to life, such as the the Pacing White Mustang--&quot;fastest horse in the West&quot;--and the Hemlock Pair, two eagles who successfully raised several broods of young even when threatened by extinction. Each story is short, but beautifully written, and conveys the message that all of our animals are special, no matter what the species, or the deed. Other animals included in the book are Punxsutawney Phil, the rodent who rules on February 2; Smokey Bear, a real bear who told us in his own way that &quot;only you can prevent forest fires&quot;; Scannon, a great Newfoundland who was an important scout on the Lewis and Clark Expedition; three gray whales who managed to stay alive when trapped in Arctic sea ice; Sugar, a cat who made an incredible 1500-mile journey to find her family; and Blind Tom, a blind workhorse who helped to complete the first transcontinental railroad more than 100 years ago. Each story is graced with fine writing and beautiful paintings and drawings by Christine Herman Merrill. This is a collection special because of its loyalty to the dedicated animals who inspired it. This edition of the book is out-of-print, but recently it was made into a paperback children's chapter book called INCREDIBLE ANIMAL ADVENTURES, which does not carry as much beauty and dignity as this hardcover version. Also read Ms. George's other stories featuring remarkable animals--THERE'S AN OWL IN THE SHOWER, which is also illustrated by Merrill; THE TARANTULA IN MY PURSE AND 172 OTHER WILD PETS, Ms. George's autobiographical portrayal of the many animals she has known in the past; and her classic young adult novels JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, which each have two sequels.RANTULA IN MY PURSE AND 172 OTHER WILD PETS, Ms. George's autobiographical portrayal of the many animals she has known in the past; and her classic young adult novels JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, which each have two sequels.	2001-09-07
US	46961402	R47ZMWXS0NBPM	0064403084	686058735	Shark Beneath the Reef	Books	4	4	5	N	N	One of George's best	From Jean Craighead George, best-loved author of more than eighty nature books for young readers, comes another marvelous story about a complex culture, family importance, and the vast relationship between humans and the natural world. This is one of her best, along the same line as the provocative WATER SKY--the story of a young man who learns about the whales of Arctic Alaska--and THE TALKING EARTH, about a girl who rows through the Everglades, befriending animals along the way. Although Ms. George is best-known for her classics, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN and the Newbery Medal-winning JULIE OF THE WOLVES, her other novels are great adventures, too. SHARK BENEATH THE REEF is the story of Tomas Torres, who, at fourteen, is learning about his changing home and trying to cope with the new decisions he must face, the most important being his choice to become a fisherman or a marine biologist. A great shark only complicates this decision, as Tomas's dream is to kill the shark and carry it into his small Mexican town above his head, with the bells of the mission tower ringing in praise. However, it is when Tomas comes face-to-face with the shark that he realizes how vital it is to his family's well-being, and he forgets his dream and thinks, more sensibly, like a man. The ending is one of the best parts about the story, when Tomas and his teacher discuss the varying faces of nature and how it cannot be controlled, although humans may think they'd like to and can. The entire story sparkles with details about the teeming life of the seaside environment, interesting, well-described characters, and the importance of legends and heroes to many cultures. Nature and animal lovers will enjoy reading about the different creatures and birds found in this part of the world, although not much is given to the shark to allay fears about its legendary ferocity.	2001-08-27
US	46961402	RNU7DPLGODFLP	0786831634	484559815	Elephant Walk (Disney's Animal Kingdom)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A book featuring great nature writing. . .and Disney	An interesting combination here: the blending of a Disney theme park with the exquisite writing of a beloved nature writer. Jean Craighead George, the highly acclaimed author of dozens of beloved books for young readers, wrote a series of picture books that focuses on four kinds of animals that make their homes in the African savanna (at least, it appears to be Africa; they may be living in the Disney theme park, Animal Kingdom). But readers are not to worry, for the animals in the stories are not cutesy, cartoonish critters--Ms. George, even though the style may be a slight departure from that of many of her other books, still manages to present her characters with accuracy and loving detail. In ELEPHANT WALK, a young elephant named Odon takes a walk across his land with his family and matriarch mother, wondering why his mother wants to walk so far, and learning about himself, his home--and his long, cumbersome trunk! During the walk he meets other animals, forms close bonds with his relatives, and loves to play. Then the family meets another group of elephants--and the ending is both endearing and intriguing. This is a good story, with lots of information about this fascinating mammal, and colorful illustrations. In the back Ms. George once again displays her interest and knowledge of animal behavior and language by showing us a chart of elephant talk. She has showed this interest and knowledge in other animal books, such as the recent HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG, HOW TO TALK TO YOUR CAT, and the Newbery-Medal winning novel JULIE OF THE WOLVES, and its intriguing sequels JULIE, JULIE'S WOLF PACK, and the new picture books NUTIK THE WOLF PUP and NUTIK AND AMAROQ PLAY BALL.	2001-08-24
US	46961402	RNTSSWDTFKY67	0590321188	444433011	River Rats, Inc.	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An enjoyable adventure story, with a few flaws	This adventure story from Jean Craighead George, award-winning author of more than eighty critically acclaimed books for young readers, came in 1979, six years after she won the prestigious Newbery Medal for her classic JULIE OF THE WOLVES, and twenty years after she won the silver Newbery Honor for the famous MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.  Here again, the story deals with kids struggling to survive in a remote environment--and the result is no less engaging.  Joe and Crowbar, two adventurous friends, are sent out by Joe's uncle to do a suspicious task that involves rafting over the dangerous wild rapids of the Colorado River.  As they carry out the orders, their raft and most of their supplies are destroyed or lost down the river, and the boys must learn to fend for themselves in the mighty Grand Canyon and the hot, unforgiving desert.  There, they find a mute wild child called Lizard Boy, and, while trying to stay alive, make an attempt to teach him language, and learn to respect and admire his strange ways.  There are many details similar to those in MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN--the way the boys build shelter, prepare food, and spend their time.  Other times, there are problems with the realism of the story--for example, the boys are readily able to eat lizards and dead cats, and sometimes the dialogue is not like the way kids would really talk today.  When the truth about Joe's uncle's mysterious reason for the deadly task are revealed, the reader may be confused.  Otherwise, this is a fine novel of the importance of friendship and an interesting look at the environment of the Grand Canyon.  Readers should be captivated by the interesting plot and the good use of strong adjectives and powerful descriptions that the author devotes to the story.	2001-08-12
US	46961402	R3XMF0W40Z3K2	0525273085	500651358	Bubo: The Great Horned Owl  American Woodland Tales	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This powerful book is far from bird-brained	In 1954, twenty years before she won the prestigious Newbery Medal for her classic JULIE OF THE WOLVES, Jean Craighead George wrote several stories with her husband, John George.  Each book was focused on a certain wild animal--VULPES, THE RED FOX; VISON, THE MINK; MASKED PROWLER: THE STORY OF A RACCOON; MEPH, THE PET SKUNK; and DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK.  These are all classic animal stories by two expert writers and naturalists, although since the '50's Ms. George has been receiving more credit for the books--apparently she did most of the work while her husband contributed details, and back then the man's name was traditionally printed on a book before his female co-author's.  [....] All of the stories are written with pretty much the same plot--a wild animal tries to survive in the woods, hunting, raising young, and living with its fellow creatures.  But I found BUBO to be a slightly different read.  It has fewer humans than the other books, which I liked (I thought the ones in MASKED PROWLER and VULPES were rather distracting and monotonous).  Also, the other characters, besides the owls, are more focused on.  There is a noticeable chapter in the book when the owls are not mentioned at all--instead the story turns to the titmice, cardinals, and other songbirds of the forest--and readers may grow tired of this.  Otherwise, the story revolves around a pair of great horned owls--Bubo and his mate Black Talon.  Together the \\"bird-tigers\\" of the forest prowl their territory and drive the other creatures, like the songbirds and mice, into terrified submission.  They try to raise several broods of young, but the forces of nature continually stand in their way.  Will Bubo and Black Talon ever raise successful young?  Who will survive under their bird reign of terror?  These questions are posed with drama and accuracy.  If you love and want to know more about our common American birds, if you are thrilled to hear the hooting of an owl at night, read this book.  It should be on any Audubon Society member's reading list.  Whether you're young or old, you're sure to enjoy the Georges' compelling nature stories.  Also check out Jean Craighead George's more than eighty books--THE EPIC ADVENTURES OF JULIE AND HER WOLVES; THE MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN TRILOGY; THE THIRTEEN MOONS SERIES; and her recent publications such as HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG; THE ONE DAY. . .series; MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT--the list goes on and on, and so does the endless number of wild and fascinating creatures on our planet.be on any Audubon Society member's reading list.  Whether you're young or old, you're sure to enjoy the Georges' compelling nature stories.  Also check out Jean Craighead George's more than eighty books--THE EPIC ADVENTURES OF JULIE AND HER WOLVES; THE MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN TRILOGY; THE THIRTEEN MOONS SERIES; and her recent publications such as HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG; THE ONE DAY. . .series; MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT--the list goes on and on, and so does the endless number of wild and fascinating creatures on our planet.	2001-07-31
US	46961402	R1G0YK43OF919Z	0060281669	474069	Nutik & Amaroq Play Ball	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Improved sequel to NUTIK, THE WOLF PUP	In Jean Craighead George's new picture book, Nutik the wolf pup and Amaroq the Inupiat Eskimo boy, two characters recently added to the world of picture books, find more adventures on the tundra of Alaska's North Slope.  Nutik and Amaroq's story began in JULIE'S WOLF PACK, the third novel in Ms. George's young adult series that follows JULIE and the 1973 Newbery Medal-winning classic JULIE OF THE WOLVES.  Last year the first picture book specifically about Amaroq (Julie's little brother, who is named after the heroic wolf who saved Julie's life when she was lost on the tundra) and Nutik (the mischievous pup who is the grandson of Amaroq the wolf) came out, entitled NUTIK, THE WOLF PUP.  Its story concerned Amaroq's caring for the pup when he was sick, Amaroq's sadness when he is told that Nutik must go back to his wild kind, and his joy when Nutik returns to the boy.  I was not so fond of the story; I was not very happy with the illustrations or the overall content of the story--it lacked the beauty and excitement of the Julie novels.  But, like the ice and cold of Arctic winter turning to the brilliance of summer, NUTIK AND AMAROQ PLAY BALL is a welcome relief.  In it, the two friends enjoy playing football, when their favorite toy mysteriously disappears.  Together, Nutik and Amaroq wander off onto the tundra to search for it.  Amaroq, like his big sister did in JULIE OF THE WOLVES, learns to listen carefully to Nutik's behavior for clues to the whereabouts of the football.  He listens also to the birds and all the creatures of the tundra when he and Nutik become lost, and eventually, by playing careful attention to each other and to their natural surroundings, they find their way home.  I enjoyed this story more than NUTIK, THE WOLF PUP for several reasons.  I thought the illustrations by Ted Rand were much improved, more interesting and eye-catching--just lovely.  Also the tale was simpler and has a good lesson that is often found in Ms. George's other books about the importance of nature and the value of our cooperation with it.  Children should be able to understand and enjoy this book better.  It rights the terrible fictional wrongs about wolves that can be found in LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD, etc., and can teach young readers about how every living thing should be treated with respect and love.  Each one of Jean Craighead George's eighty+ novels teach these valuable lessons.  Some recent books of hers include HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG, the teachings of which can be traced back to the communication of wolves that is discussed in the Julie books; new editions of the popular MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN TRILOGY; ARCTIC SON, about her grandson who lives in the Arctic; the ECOLOGICAL MYSTERIES series--and many, many more.  Great books with great lessons; NUTIK AND AMAROQ PLAY BALL is evidence of these.ut the importance of nature and the value of our cooperation with it.  Children should be able to understand and enjoy this book better.  It rights the terrible fictional wrongs about wolves that can be found in LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD, etc., and can teach young readers about how every living thing should be treated with respect and love.  Each one of Jean Craighead George's eighty+ novels teach these valuable lessons.  Some recent books of hers include HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG, the teachings of which can be traced back to the communication of wolves that is discussed in the Julie books; new editions of the popular MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN TRILOGY; ARCTIC SON, about her grandson who lives in the Arctic; the ECOLOGICAL MYSTERIES series--and many, many more.  Great books with great lessons; NUTIK AND AMAROQ PLAY BALL is evidence of these.	2001-07-23
US	46961402	R37C68MU31UUCP	0064402126	582097798	The Talking Earth	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A thrilling story of the Everglades	Here is yet another splendid story from Jean Craighead George, a Newbery Award-winning author of many spectacular nature stories for young readers.  As she did in her classic JULIE OF THE WOLVES, Ms. George again combines details on Native American culture, animal behavior, and a unique environment to produce a dramatic and engaging story.  THE TALKING EARTH is the story of Billie Wind, a young Seminole girl who lives with her tribe in the Florida Everglades.  When she is accused of being a doubter, for not believing in her tribe's legends and myths, which often sound rather preposterous to her, she is sent off to live on her own in the River of Grass, to fend for herself and to listen to &quot;the talking Earth&quot; and learn what its speech means to her.  While on her quest she learns to hunt and to build, to eat wild foods and make shelters and transportation out of the things she can find in the wilderness (sound familiar?  Ms. George also wrote the favorite MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN trilogy, which concerns a boy who runs off to the Catskill Mountains to live on his own and fend for himself.)  Billie Wind meets three animals that change her life forever--a giant panther cub, a playful otter, and a stoic turtle--and their adventures make the book all the more enjoyable.  A fire, a hurricane, and other natural disasters threaten, but Billie Wind, a fine heroine, comes out all right in the end, with a better understanding of the world around her.  I thought that more could be done to stress how important our environment is and what kids can do to protect it, but all in all THE TALKING EARTH becomes one of Ms. George's most well-researched, wise, and engaging books.  Other fascinating stories concerning the threatened Everglades are a picture book, EVERGLADES, a breathtaking story that is wonderfully illustrated by Wendell Minor, and an Ecological Mystery for older readers, THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO, which has even more about the wildlife in the Everglades, and is also a good mystery.  But whichever of Jean Craighead George's 80+ nature stories one chooses, one always comes away with a more excited appreciation of our miraculous environment.nd is also a good mystery.  But whichever of Jean Craighead George's 80+ nature stories one chooses, one always comes away with a more excited appreciation of our miraculous environment.	2001-07-02
US	46961402	R1Z444RTYYNVAW	0690762879	453151310	Spring Comes to the Ocean	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dive into underwater adventure with this unique story	This is a remarkable story from Jean Craighead George, the author of over eighty classic nature books for young readers branching several decades.  Published in 1965, this book is sandwiched between the publication of Ms. George's two most well-remembered classics, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN and JULIE OF THE WOLVES.  SPRING COMES TO THE OCEAN, although written very scientifically and perhaps considered nonfiction, is not without engrossing characters and a powerful story.  It chronicles the lives of more than twelve species of underwater creatures--everything from the tiniest acoela worm to the largest gray whale.  As the Earth spins out of the somber depths of winter through the springtime days of renewal and survival, a hermit crab searches for a new shell, baby turtles struggle from their nest to the ocean, a porpoise gives birth, and silver herring gleam as they dance in the underwater sunlight.  Their stories are almost unbelievable, they are so unique and completely different from our lives on the land.  It's obvious that a lot of research went into this story, it is so detailed and thorough.  The author's words are hightened by the illustrations by John Wilson, which are eerie and otherworldly.  Taking a journey underwater is like heading into outer space. . .a very special trip, especially when told through the words of Jean Craighead George.	2001-05-30
US	46961402	R13AKNQWIO6UTR	0785777725	654638841	One Day in the Tropical Rain Forest (Trophy Chapter Books)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The gripping story of a remarkable environment	Here is another superb entry in beloved nature writer Jean Craighead George's informative and thrilling ONE DAY. . . series.  The award-winning author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, and more than eighty other wildlife books for young readers does a great job of bringing to life the magical setting of the tropical rain forest.  Tepui, a young boy who lives in Venezuela's Tropical Rain Forest of the Macaw, befriends some biologists who are studying the rain forest.  To his and the scientists' dismay, the rain forest is scheduled to be chopped down and destroyed one afternoon.  The only way to save it is to find a special butterfly that has never before been identified and present it to a wealthy businessman who wants to name the butterfly after his daughter.  So Tepui and his friend Dr. Rivero--a lepidoptorist--set out to find the elusive insect.  But the human characters are only a small part of the story.  The rain forest is alive with thousands of species of creatures--amusing ones like a leisurely sloth, and creepy ones like flesh-eating ants.  There are birds of all the colors of the rainbow, mammals like jaguars and tapirs, magnificent tree giants, and, of course, millions of insects.  This is a fascinating glimpse, written in a fast-paced minute-by-minute style, into an environment so complex and diverse that there are many creatures who don't even have names, and have never seen humans.  It is also an important story that all young people should pay attention to to better understand their natural world and help to preserve its unique magnificent ecosystems.  Other titles in the series are: ONE DAY IN THE. . .ALPINE TUNDRA, PRAIRIE, DESERT, and WOODS.  Any ecologist will also want to check out Jean Craighead George's Eco-Mysteries series: WHO REALLY KILLED COCK ROBIN?, THE CASE OF THE MISSING CUTTHROATS, THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO, and THE FIRE BUG CONNECTION.  These include information on chemicals, the ozone layer, human development, and how these things threaten our wild places and creatures.and how these things threaten our wild places and creatures.	2001-04-21
US	46961402	R1UYMAATZHQA7R	0525423109	396045196	The Wentletrap Trap	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Catch this book and be amazed	Here is another winner from children's greatest nature writer of today, Jean Craighead George.  The author of over eighty books about the environment, including JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, THE ONE DAY. . .series, and HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG, Ms. George did a great writing job with this picture book of 1978.  It's the story of Dennis, a young boy who lives on an island and who is anxious to be a grown man like his father, a fisherman.  When his father tells him that he will come a little closer to this aspiration by buying all the things he needs to make a living out of fishing--a boat, a grapple, a net, and a bucket--Dennis asks him just how he will get the money for such things.  His father tells him to find a wentletrap, a rare seashell of the greatest beauty and wealth.  So, while his father is out at sea, Dennis makes a wentletrap trap, using everyday objects to capture a wentletrap when it is washed up on the beach.  In the end Dennis finds lots of things besides a remarkable wentletrap--some of them beautiful, some of them alive, but each one wonderful in its own subtle way.  Ms. George's fondness for even the smallest things in nature is apparent in this book.  The pictures are as distinct and handsome as a wentletrap, lively and interesting.  The lyrical storytelling--active and wise the whole way through--and the humorous illustrations combine to make an excellent picture book.	2001-04-18
US	46961402	RF8NGQJ8UN146	0064420175	147008600	One Day in the Woods	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Come spend ONE DAY IN THE WOODS	Jean Craighead George, author of nearly one hundred novels, picture books, novellas, guides, and stories about nature, presents a story of the perfect length about our most familiar ecosystem, the woods.  Ms. George does a terrific job of placing readers in the feet of her main character, a young girl named Rebecca (Ms. George's granddaughter and perhaps the same Rebecca from her picture book DEAR REBECCA, WINTER IS HERE).  One beautiful spring morning, Rebecca takes a trip out to the woods near her home to search for a rare and remarkable bird, the ovenbird, which her uncle tells her is a real natural wizard.  While Rebecca searches for this wonder of the woods, she finds lots of other incredible creatures--owls, flying squirrels, deer, ducks, and a skunk--and even runs into danger and excitement.  Fine descriptions, fondly and accurately written, make birds a lot of us see every day--towhees, robins, and cardinals--all the more special and important, as Ms. George's admiration for even the smallest things in nature is evident.  And when Rebecca finds the ovenbird wizard, it really is an eye-opener.  The illustrations are woodsy and a nice companion to Ms. George's words.  This is a great story for anyone who loves nature and the special words of the author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.	2001-04-18
US	46961402	R3KG8VYY65A3SV	0064420396	998842509	One Day in the Prairie (Trophy Chapter Book)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Feel the excitement of a tornado and a buffalo stampede	Here is another entry in nature writer Jean Craighead George's fantastic ONE DAY series.  This one, unlike the other books in the series--ONE DAY IN THE. . .WOODS, ALPINE TUNDRA, DESERT, and TROPICAL RAIN FOREST--is written more dramatically in the present, and is a very satisfying introduction to the lively environment of the United States prairie.  Henry Rush, a young photographer, gets to spend one day on the prairie to take a picture of a prairie dog doing a backflip.  These comical little critters provide humor, while the buffalo of a nearby herd seem wise and noble.  Suddenly, disaster strikes.  A tornado is headed for the prairie, and Henry, the buffalo, the prairie dogs, and countless other creatures are in its path.  The result is thrilling and tense.  The illustrator's amazingly realistic drawings add to the excitement.  This is a fine story about a lively environment from the author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG, and many, many more superb books about the environment.	2001-04-18
US	46961402	R27J80ZCB03KJC	0064420388	776501888	One Day in the Desert (Trophy Chapter Book)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A dramatic look into an otherworldly environment	Naturalist Jean Craighead George introduces us to the world of the mountain lion, the road runner, the cactus, the kangaroo rat, the ringtailed cat, the swift fox, the elf owl, the coyote, and the bombadier beetle in this book as she did wolves and caribou in JULIE OF THE WOLVES and peregrine falcons in MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.  A young Papago Indian girl named Bird Wing and her mother live in Arizona's Sonoran Desert.  This usually arid place is about to fall victim to a terrible thunderstorm and a flash flood.  Bird Wing and all the animals of the desert struggle to find shelter before the flood.  Some will survive--and some will not.  This is a beautiful story about the close connection between human beings and all living things, and the unpredictable ways of nature.  Other books in the ONE DAY series that include exciting natural disasters are ONE DAY IN THE ALPINE TUNDRA and ONE DAY IN THE PRAIRIE.  There is also the fascinating ONE DAY IN THE WOODS and ONE DAY IN THE TROPICAL RAIN FOREST.  And don't forget Jean Craighead George's 80+ stories about nature, like The Thirteen Moons series and THERE'S AN OWL IN THE SHOWER.	2001-04-18
US	46961402	R2IHLH5RSZI6M0	0064420272	969391526	One Day in the Alpine Tundra	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Spend one day in a whole new world	Naturalist and award-winning author Jean Craighead George offers children a smoothly written account of the wildlife, both big and small, which inhabits the alpine tundra of Wyoming.  The talents that won her the Newbery Medal for JULIE OF THE WOLVES and have helped her write nearly one hundred other marvelous environmental stories for young readers swing into action.  On a mountaintop in the Teton Mountains, a great rock stands regally above the almost treeless landscape, and it is about to fall.  A wide variety of rodents, birds, and mammals go about their daily business, unaware of the avalanche that will soon take place.  Water pipits hop like sparrows across the ground; a sleepy marmot begins his time of hibernation; a golden eagle scans his kingdom, searching for prey.  And a stranger to the area, a boy named Johnny, wakes up in his tent.  This quiet story, which turns exciting when the rock tips, is a fascinating look into a unique environment.  The human character in the story never manages to take over, as sometimes happens in some of Ms. George's other books.  The accurate, interesting writing is reminiscent of Ms. George's earlier series about specific ecosystems, like the Thirteen Moons series, about the seasonal changes that take place with thirteen animals in thirteen environments.  These books are now out-of-print, but one gets the same sense of fascination and new understanding of the animal world through the One Day series (you can find my review of the Thirteen Moons series by searching for the book THE MOON OF THE OWLS).  The other books in the ONE DAY series are: ONE DAY IN THE. . .PRAIRIE, DESERT, TROPICAL RAIN FOREST, and WOODS.  Jean Craighead George's dramatic words are also strengthened by Walter Gaffney-Kessell's expressive illustrations.  Come to a whole new land with this fine, short but thourough investigation into one of nature's greatest landscapes.	2001-04-14
US	46961402	R3QDQQY2BNJU0R	0064404749	525279377	Fire Bug Connection (Ecological Mysteries)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Does this book bug you?	Mystery and ecology collide--with varying fascinating, tedious, informative, thrilling, and confusing results--in Jean Craighead George's Eco-Mysteries series.  The author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, and nearly one hundred other distinguished nature stories for young readers, Ms. George also wrote four mysteries--WHO REALLY KILLED COCK ROBIN?, THE CASE OF THE MISSING CUTTHROATS, THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO, and this book, THE FIRE BUG CONNECTION.  All include details into our environment and the factors that threaten to destroy parts of it.  THE FIRE BUG CONNECTION falls a bit short of the other books in its series for a number of reasons.  The story concerns a young entomologist named Maggie, and her enemy-turned-partner Mitch, as they try to solve the mystery of the deaths of Maggie's birthday present, a group of radiant fire bugs from the Czech Republic, at Maggie's home in a Maine Biological Research Station--Bug Camp.  Mitch is convinced that global warming committed the crimes; Maggie immediately dismisses this idea (I never quite understood why).  Acid rain is a factor, too, as well as chemicals that may exist in the paper in the fire bugs' containers, and, finally, the most unusual culprits, a raven and a balsam fir tree.  The ending of the story seems overly complicated, but this may not be so for more scientific mature readers who, like Maggie and Mitch, know about the existence of many kinds of chemicals and where they can be found.  I found myself concentrating less on the mystery of the destruction of the fire bugs and more on the amusing details around Bug Camp--Maggie's friends: a clan of bats, a wasp, and a spider--and how Mitch ever figured how to get rid of a computer virus without using a special disinfectant program.  Anyone who is interested in the tiny but amazing world of insects and other &quot;creepy&quot; but splendid critters like ravens and bats, or anyone whose favorite things in school include science and reading mysteries, will find this book enjoyable, despite its occasional shortcomings.ing mysteries, will find this book enjoyable, despite its occasional shortcomings.	2001-04-12
US	46961402	RKKW83WL26SNF	0064406474	33131226	The Case of the Missing Cutthroats (Ecological Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Something fishy's going on around here	Originally titled HOOK A FISH, CATCH A MOUNTAIN, this is another Eco-Mystery from children's greatest nature writer, Jean Craighead George, author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.  However, this book never quite gets to level of those classics.  The story concerns Spinner, a teenager who is taken on a fishing trip against her will.  After she catches a huge, nearly extinct cutthroat troat, she ends up going on a wild adventure through the woods to solve the mystery.  I never could get really into the book, as Spinner is not a very likeable character for most of the story and some of it is hard to understand.  But  great descriptions--like an exciting lightning storm on the side of a cliff to a dangerous grizzly bear attack--come to the rescue.  Any young ecologist or naturalist will want to read this story.  Don't forget the other Eco-Mysteries--WHO REALLY KILLED COCK ROBIN?, about a boy who must solve the mystery of the death of his town's feathered mascot; THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO, which concerns a girl who must track down a majestic alligator in the Florida Everglades; and THE FIRE-BUG CONNECTION.  Also, Ms. George's other eighty or so novels should be more rewarding than THE CASE OF THE MISSING CUTTHROATS.	2001-04-02
US	46961402	R3SZUYLT2RUHCT	006440434X	556405731	The Missing 'Gator of Gumbo Limbo	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A greater gator story	This fascinating novel is for anyone who has ever fallen in love with a wild place, with a wild animal, or who is concerned about our jeopardized natural world.  Only Jean Craighead George could write such a comprehensible and informative children's book about nature.  While they're not JULIE OF THE WOLVES or MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, Ms. George's Ecological Mysteries Series are sure to be enjoyable for any naturalist--inspiring and educational.  In THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO, Liza K. Poole lives with her mother and some eccentric neighbors in the heart of the Florida Everglades.  (Anyone who was born to live in a tent and fish for food will be envious of this &quot;wild&quot; lifestyle.)  When the woods peoples' &quot;dragon&quot;, a regal alligator, disappears, they begin to try to track down the great beast, especially Liza K.  A ranger is after the gator, for he has been frightening nearby home-dwellers, and should be shot.  Liza K. and her unique friends--including a talkative African gray parrot-- go through a series of clues to find out where the gator has disappeared to.  The ending, I admit, is slightly disappointing--the threat of the ranger seems to be forgotten after the gator is found, Liza K. and her neighbors must abandon their way of life--but all in all, it's a fine read.  The other Eco-Mysteries should be kept in mind--WHO REALLY KILLED COCK ROBIN?, in which a boy tries to solve the mystery of his clean town's feathered mascot; THE CASE OF THE MISSING CUTTHROATS, quite a lot like THE MISSING 'GATOR; and THE FIRE BUG CONNECTION.  No young naturalist or ecologist should overlook the wide, wonderful world of Jean Craighead George.	2001-04-02
US	46961402	R3DOQRCTUPVZVJ	0525320768	494420897	The Hole in the Tree	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Come to a whole new world with this story	THE HOLE IN THE TREE, besides being a fascinating ecological story, is also a delightful picture book.  It was written early in the half-century-long writing career of children's greatest nature writer, Jean Craighead George.  Before she went on to write classics like JULIE OF THE WOLVES and today's books like the Ecological Mysteries, HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG, and the One Day in the. . .series, Ms. George turned out several books that she wrote and illustrated.  Among them are the animal biographies she wrote with husband John George, like VULPES THE RED FOX and DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK.  There was the enduring, Newbery Honor-winning MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, too.  And there were her picture books, THE HOLE IN THE TREE and SNOW TRACKS.  Apparently, SNOW TRACKS is not currently available on Amazon.  It tells the cozy story of a forest full of animals who have adventures on a cold winter night, and a boy who follows their tracks.  THE HOLE IN THE TREE is done in the same style.  In it, a young boy and girl find a sanctuary under an old shady apple tree.  So do a lot of wild things--woodpeckers, insects, raccoons--and the children, though they might think they are alone, soon have many neighbors in the hollow tree trunk.  The pictures are lively and warm, penciled with great detail and close observation of natural behavior.  The story, too, is detailed and thorough, helping explain the pictures with creative, understandable words.  A carpenter bee, one of nature's most crafted homemakers, lays her eggs in the hole; a chickadee builds a nest; a raccoon hibernates; and the pictures offer a wonderful look into these otherwise hidden worlds.  Sadly, this fine story of nature and ecology has been out of print for years.  But Ms. George has written almost a hundred books on our spectacular natural world, and each one is enjoyable and fascinating.	2001-03-29
US	46961402	R2U1KNT2N9YQP8	0064404056	388553732	Who Really Killed Cock Robin? (Rise and Shine)	Books	4	17	19	N	N	An Eco-Mystery	Environmentalist, ecologist, naturalist, and writer Jean Craighead George, the Rachel Carson for children, will win her audiences once again with this story.  The plot revolves around Tony Isidoro, a young biologist who is bent on solving the mystery of the death of his hometown's feathered mascot, Cock Robin.  As he uncovers assorted clues strung throughout the town--chemical activity, sudden loss of frogs and birds--Tony must try to convince his naive neighbors that not just one thing is responsible for the bird's death, but many imbalances in the town's ecosystem, which everyone is convinced is the cleanest around.  Since it's an eco-mystery, the story is grippingly told in the style of a crime investigation.  From the beginning you want to know Who Really Killed Cock Robin: &quot;Cock Robin lay on his back with his feet in the air. . .It was seven minutes past six A.M. on the twenty-fourth day of May.  He was dead.&quot;  There are endless possiblities for the cause of the bird's death, and at times it's a bit unrealistic when Tony immediately dismisses some types of poisons and investigates others.  Younger kids may have no idea what DDT, PCB, and 2,4,5-T are, though the author does try to explain them.  However, the story, the dedication--&quot;To sunshine, clear water, and sparkling skies and to the kids who are cleaning up the Earth&quot;--and Ms. George's supportive Author's Note in the new paperback version will surely inspire kids to clean up their environment and veer away from the use of harmful, chemical-containing products.  If one enjoys this Eco-Mystery, check out the others in the series--THE CASE OF THE MISSING CUTTHROATS; THE FIRE BUG CONNECTION; and THE MISSING 'GATOR OF GUMBO LIMBO.  Don't forget Jean Craighead George's eighty or so other remarkable stories--the Julie of the Wolves books, the My Side of the Mountain trilogy, the One Day series. . .the list goes on and on.  Each book will deepen readers' respect for nature and our beautiful but threatened planet.threatened planet.	2001-03-17
US	46961402	RL6N69NQSTKCV	0064402029	795838103	Water Sky	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The story of an Arctic drama	Based on her experiences visiting the Arctic and the whale camp where her son works, beloved children's nature writer Jean Craighead George presents a beautiful story for older readers.  It tells the story of a young man, Lincoln, who goes to the top of the world and the northernmost place in the U.S., Point Barrow, home of the bowhead whale and the Inupiat Eskimo.  Lincoln comes searching for his long-lost Uncle Jack and to find the roots of his Eskimo heritage, but instead faces his destiny when the captain of an Eskimo whaling camp tells him that a whale is coming to him.  Uncle Jack came to the Arctic to try to convince the Eskimo not to hunt the threatened bowhead, and Lincoln, when a turn of events causes him to become the whaling captain, is torn between whether to respect Uncle Jack's environmental plea, or to honor the beloved whaling captain by killing the great whale.  Though Lincoln slowly comes to feel like a true Eskimo by weaving himself into their culture and customs, he sadly realizes that he can never be one of these magnificent and efficient people.  Romance becomes the main thing that causes Lincoln to realize this, and the heroine he becomes attracted to is as strong and beautiful as the main character in Ms. George's other Arctic novel for young adults, JULIE OF THE WOLVES.  The ending is poignant and unforgettable, and out of Ms. George's eighty plus environmental stories, WATER SKY is probably the most provocative and thoughtful.  Fans of the Julie books and the spectacular picture book, ARCTIC SON, will adore this story that is at the same time icy, thoughtful, inventive, tragic, and altogether a rewarding read.	2001-03-06
US	46961402	R3JBQV9SFTX7FG	0786804564	933439552	Snow Bear	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A lovely picture book from the author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES	Jean Craighead George combines her love of Eskimo culture and wildlife in this splendid picture book.  The story is of a young Eskimo girl named Bessie who, while out exploring one Arctic evening, meets a polar bear cub named Snow Bear.  The two immediately become the best of friends, while Bessie's brother and Snow Bear's mother watch over them like the good caretakers they are.  The story wonderfully shows how animal life often reflects the ways of humans--close family bonds, playfulness, and a sense of happiness abound between both species.  Wendell Minor's spectacular illustrations light up every page.  They are filled with warmth, humor, and excitement, and are breathtakingly beautiful.  The quiet elegance of Eskimo life and the powerful magnificence of the polar bear are gloriously depicted.  Other George/Minor picture books include the remarkable ARCTIC SON, the story of Ms. George's grandson who lives at the top of the world.  More ice, Eskimos, and polar bears can be seen in this radiant story.  MORNING, NOON,  AND NIGHT tells the story of many different animals all over the United States and what they do during the transition from sunrise to sunset.  Mr. Minor's illustrations are cozy and cheerful.  EVERGLADES is another example of the excellent combination of Ms. George's poetic style and Mr.Minor's lush watercolors.  It tells the story of the rise and near-fall of one of the world's greatest and most unique ecosystems, the Florida Everglades.  Mr. Minor also did the art for the covers and some of the illustrations for Ms. George's spectacular JULIE OF THE WOLVES books.  The fourth in the series, not a chapter book but a picture book entitled NUTIK THE WOLF PUP, is written with the same close view into the relationship between humans and animals as SNOW BEAR, but Mr. Minor did not do the illustrations for this book.  Jean Craighead George, author of more than eighty books for children and young adults, will surely inspire and warm the hearts of her audiences with SNOW BEAR.ces with SNOW BEAR.	2001-03-03
US	46961402	RSN44WTYD5WK6	0525241086	168195631	Journey Inward	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A story of self-discovery from a wonderful nature writer	Best-loved children's nature writer Jean Craighead George generously lends her most dedicated fans and admirers a look into her personal life in this dramatic autobiography.  She covers her life from the shaky beginnings of co-writing with a dominant husband, to the proud winning of the Pulitzer Prize of children's books, the Newbery Medal.  Struggling to achieve independence and recognition for her work, Ms. George does a good job of portraying her feelings toward her life as a parent, writer, and naturalist.  Throughout her life Ms. George constantly compares herself with the animals she studies and writes about--from the song sparrow couples who befriend her and her husband, to the matriarchal nanny leaders of rocky mountain goats and the magnificent black alpha male wolf of a Mt. McKinley pack.  In doing this she forms an increasingly powerful bond with the natural world and her words build more meaning throughout her long career.  Ms. George covers the turbulent and problematic events leading up to, and following, her separation from an unsympathetic husband, the joys and troubles of raising three children, and the constant struggle to deal with her femininity in a time when men were often more highly regarded than women.  When times are hard--when teenage drug dealers and little money threaten--Ms. George always finds strength in the natural world both inside and outside her home.  Her pets, besides the usual dogs and cats, often included a menagerie of wild beasts--raccoons, bats, skunks, crows, owls, and frogs--providing humor and warmth both to Ms. George's life and to the book.  Outdoors, Ms. George spent hours observing the characters in her books--the goats of GOING TO THE SUN, the gulls of GULL NUMBER 737.  She dreamed of living off the land and surviving among nature like Sam Gribley in MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN.  There is a long, fascinating lead up to Ms. George's greatest work, JULIE OF THE WOLVES, in which she journeys to the tundra of Arctic Alaska to observe and communicate with wolves and befriend the efficient Eskimo people.  JOURNEY INWARD was published in 1982, and since then Ms. George has written dozens more marvelous children's books and continues to write in her home in Chappaqua, New York.  This is a fascinating glimpse into the life of our finest children's nature writer, an author of over eighty books, and a spectacular person.to observe and communicate with wolves and befriend the efficient Eskimo people.  JOURNEY INWARD was published in 1982, and since then Ms. George has written dozens more marvelous children's books and continues to write in her home in Chappaqua, New York.  This is a fascinating glimpse into the life of our finest children's nature writer, an author of over eighty books, and a spectacular person.	2001-03-01
US	46961402	R3QEVCUTXTCOC8	0525347674	838816077	Masked Prowler the Story of a Raccoon	Books	4	1	2	N	N	For any nature lover--the story of a raccoon	Before she went on to write such classics as JULIE OF THE WOLVES and MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, best-loved children's nature writer Jean Craighead George wrote a series of animal stories with her ex-husband John George.  Two of them, VULPES THE RED FOX and DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK were reprinted a few years ago, but MASKED PROWLER, MEPH THE PET SKUNK, BUBO THE GREAT HORNED OWL,  and VISON THE MINK remain out-of-print.  All are written in pretty much the same way, with steady, monotonous text and details about animal life.  Ms. George herself illustrated the books with fine wash drawings.  Not much expert knowledge goes into the stories, since animal behavior was not as closely studied in the1940's-50's, when these books were published, as it was when Ms. George wrote such closely-observed stories as JULIE OF THE WOLVES and THE CRY OF THE CROW.  However, any nature lover will appreciate the fluid sentences featuring the main character's interaction with his woodland home and neighbors.  The main character, as gathered from the title, is a raccoon by the name of Procyon (the Latin scientific name for raccoon).  The story, like the Georges' other wildlife tales, follows Procyon's life from birth, his encounters with humans and other animals, and his adventures through and through.  Some parts of the story, especially those featuring the often irrelevant humans, can be tediously slow, and the book is never really unputdownable like Ms. George's later novels.  But all in all, any nature lover will enjoy curling up by the fireside and diving into MASKED PROWLER: THE STORY OF A RACCOON.	2001-02-17
US	46961402	R3N41UGYNYXFME	0060212284	606541434	Everglades	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A spectacular environmental story	Another spectacular picture book from one of today's greatest writing/illustrating teams, EVERGLADES isn't just a story--it's an epic, one begun thousands of years ago, when water carved this spectacular ecosystem in Florida.  Jean Craighead George, author of over eighty remarkable nature books for young readers, lends awe-inspiring power to the pages of the book, while Wendell Minor's lush, colorful illustrations beautifully depict this environment, full of wildlife and vitality.  The book, like Ms. George's many others, also has an important lesson to tell.  In JULIE OF THE WOLVES, we see the importance of Alaska's North Slope to the animals that inhabit this seemingly bleak, barren landscape (this area is now in danger of more oil line construction).  In FRIGHTFUL'S MOUNTAIN (third in the MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN trilogy), we come to know the threatened peregrine falcon, and the many threats humans have posed to it.  In EVERGLADES, one feels a strong admiration toward this magnificent, but, sadly, endangered environment, and those who, like me, have never visited it, will surely long to see it for themselves.  The narration is moving and fascinating, as a Seminole Indian describes to a group of children the evolution of the Florida Everglades, and inspires them to fight to help it survive.  When one visits the Everglades, they will want to see the alligators, wetlands, and panthers of Mr. Minor's paintings.  If you enjoy EVERGLADES, you'll fall in love with other spectacular George/ Minor collaborations, such as ARCTIC SON, the story of Ms. George's grandson who lives at the northernmost point in Alaska.  As he grows up, he learns about the Inupiat Eskimos who make their home there and the tundra land around him.  Mr. Minor's illustrations are quite lovely, and there's as much snow and ice in ARCTIC SON as there was grass and water in EVERGLADES.  There's also MORNING, NOON, AND NIGHT, which focuses on the day-to-day lives of different animals throughout the U.S.  The text it written very poetically, and Mr. Minor's illustrations of raccoons, seals, antelope, and birds are full of warmth and inspiration.  And next year, a new book entitled LONESOME GEORGE will be published.  This is about the famous, oldest Galapagos tortoise.  Ms. George has also written a new young adult book about the Okefenokee Swamp, which is sure to be as full of environmental splendor as EVERGLADES.  I can't wait to see them.The text it written very poetically, and Mr. Minor's illustrations of raccoons, seals, antelope, and birds are full of warmth and inspiration.  And next year, a new book entitled LONESOME GEORGE will be published.  This is about the famous, oldest Galapagos tortoise.  Ms. George has also written a new young adult book about the Okefenokee Swamp, which is sure to be as full of environmental splendor as EVERGLADES.  I can't wait to see them.	2001-02-14
US	46961402	R3V5CLMOVMTM1	0064493504	946903542	The Julie Trilogy (Julie of the Wolves)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Three of Jean Craighead George's finest books--together!	Perhaps the best Jean Craighead George book and wolf story for children ever written, the truly magnificent JULIE OF THE WOLVES is now available with its spellbinding sequels, JULIE and JULIE'S WOLF PACK, in this beautiful boxed set.  A naturalist and author of over eighty books about wildlife for young readers, Jean Craighead George wrote JULIE OF THE WOLVES in the middle of her writing career and was rightfully given a Newbery Medal for it.  It's the unforgettable story of one girl's unbreakable relationship with her animal companions, and should be read for generations.  Miyax Kapugen runs away from an arranged marriage, only to become lost and starving on the tundra of Alaska's North Slope.  However, she soon befriends a group of wolves, and, by learning their language and social behavior, she becomes one of the pack.  This is a truly stunning book; every sentence is a work of art, carefully laden with details about animal behavior, Inupiat/Yupik Eskimo culture, and Arctic wildlife.  In the second book, the Eskimo girl (no longer Miyax, but Julie) has returned to civilization, to the father she thought was gone and to a pregnant white stepmother.  However, the bond she has formed with her wolves is one that will never be severed.  Julie is confused and disappointed to find that her father, Kapugen, has changed a great deal.  He now owns a musk-ox herd and his top prioraty is not to honor and love all living things, as it once was, but only to guard the herd.  Julie fears that the wolves, who prey upon musk-oxen, are in danger, and, determined to keep them safe, she returns to her second family--but only for a short time.  JULIE is no less interesting than its predecessor, and has a great deal to offer.  However, I must say that my love of wolves makes the third book, JULIE'S WOLF PACK, my favorite in the series.  This is truly remarkable, for it is different from any nonfiction book about wolves in that it goes straight to the core of lupine existence, bringing to life how these highly social animals communicate, hunt, and survive.  Kapu, the young wolf pup Julie befriended in the first book and the son of the great leader Amaroq, has taken his father's role as alpha and faces many challenges during his reign.  Over the course of several years, the book covers the birth of wolf pups, the threat of disease and starvation, and the endless struggle to survive in this harsh wilderness.  The result is very dramatic, and once again every word is beautiful and important.  Any wolf lover will add this and all three books to her favorites list, and any newcomer to the world of these fascinating creatures will want to learn more about them and, hopefully, want to protect this threatened species.  However, anyone who is really devoted to these books will want to be wary about NUTIK THE WOLF PUP, a picture book that follows the story of Nutik, who was raised by Julie's little brother in JULIE'S WOLF PACK.  It lacks the beauty and drama of the other books, even though it is nice in that it teaches young children to appreciate wolves rather than falsely despise or fear them.  The three paperback chapter books are together in a fine case with art by Wendell Minor, who illustrated the last two books with stunning black-and-white drawings, and I hope to keep the set until I can share Julie's and Kapu's splendid story with my own children someday.to life how these highly social animals communicate, hunt, and survive.  Kapu, the young wolf pup Julie befriended in the first book and the son of the great leader Amaroq, has taken his father's role as alpha and faces many challenges during his reign.  Over the course of several years, the book covers the birth of wolf pups, the threat of disease and starvation, and the endless struggle to survive in this harsh wilderness.  The result is very dramatic, and once again every word is beautiful and important.  Any wolf lover will add this and all three books to her favorites list, and any newcomer to the world of these fascinating creatures will want to learn more about them and, hopefully, want to protect this threatened species.  However, anyone who is really devoted to these books will want to be wary about NUTIK THE WOLF PUP, a picture book that follows the story of Nutik, who was raised by Julie's little brother in JULIE'S WOLF PACK.  It lacks the beauty and drama of the other books, even though it is nice in that it teaches young children to appreciate wolves rather than falsely despise or fear them.  The three paperback chapter books are together in a fine case with art by Wendell Minor, who illustrated the last two books with stunning black-and-white drawings, and I hope to keep the set until I can share Julie's and Kapu's splendid story with my own children someday.	2001-02-11
US	46961402	R31ZTH85EZ52LO	0525462694	289651761	My Side of the Mountain Trilogy (My Side of the Mountain / On the Far Side of the Mountain / Frightful's Mountain)	Books	5	78	80	N	N	Three wonderful stories together in one stunning volume	Jean Craighead George's MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN is, quite simply, a masterpiece of children's literature.  Almost half a century after its original publication, it is now available in this gorgeous hardcover edition, along with its two stunning sequels, ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN and FRIGHTFUL'S MOUNTAIN.  Wendell Minor, illustrator of two of Ms. George's classic JULIE OF THE WOLVES books and many splendid picture books, has done the cover, and Ms. George herself did the fine line drawings for the three books.  However, the true beauty of the volume lies with the words that grace its pages.  In the first book, Sam is a young teenager who is tired of living in his crowded New York City apartment and steals away to the Catskill Mountains to live in seclusion among nature.  There, he burns out a tree to make it his cozy home, learns about wild foods and how to find them, and captures a young peregrine falcon, Frightful, to train to hunt for him.  The first book was written in the past tense from Sam's point of view, and is filled with details and entries from Sam's journal.  Ms. George manages, in her usual way, to tell about and inspire readers about nature, without sentimentalizing it, and to develop young characters without underestimating them.  The journal entries are written just as a kid would write them, in simple, yet interesting text.  In fact, many readers have been led to believe that a thirteen-year-old boy actually did write the book.  MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN won a Newbery Honor (later Ms. George was to be awarded a Newbery Medal for her truly magnificent JULIE OF THE WOLVES).  The second book, ON THE FAR SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, is written, even more effectively, in the present tense, as Sam finds his way into more exciting adventures.  He still enjoys a life in the mountains--but he is no longer alone, as his sister, Alice, has joined him.  This book is written more realistically and in a more modern settting.  For example, peregrine falcons are an endangered species, and Frightful must be confiscated by a conservation officer.  However, Sam isn't so sure that he really is a legal government worker, and, along with his friend Bando, he takes off to find his beloved feathered friend.  At about the same time, Alice disappears, and Sam must find two of the things that mean the most to him.  The ending is very exciting, but the sequel never loses the charming, easygoing coziness of its predecessor.  In the third book, FRIGHTFUL'S MOUNTAIN, Sam is forced to let Frightful free, as it is illegal to own an endangered species.  Frightful, having lived nearly her whole life and depended almost entirely on humans for her survival, faces many challenges in her life in the wild.  There are natural dangers--other birds of prey, hurricanes--but the book's basic story relies on Frightful's increasing conflicts with humans.  Telephone wires cause an eletrocution threat, DDT poison weakens eggs, and Frightful faces a harrowing few days trying to raise young on a New York bridge.  The result of all three books has changed my way of looking at the world.  I have started a journal, I dream of living away from the strange world of humankind, I want to try dandelion salad and acorn pancakes, and I constantly watch the skies for peregrine falcons soaring above (there is only one nesting pair in Georgia this year but I am paying attention to conservation efforts to help Frightful and her kind).  With this beautiful special edition of three incredible books, I look forward to sharing the story of Sam Gribley and Frightful with my own children someday.dangered species, and Frightful must be confiscated by a conservation officer.  However, Sam isn't so sure that he really is a legal government worker, and, along with his friend Bando, he takes off to find his beloved feathered friend.  At about the same time, Alice disappears, and Sam must find two of the things that mean the most to him.  The ending is very exciting, but the sequel never loses the charming, easygoing coziness of its predecessor.  In the third book, FRIGHTFUL'S MOUNTAIN, Sam is forced to let Frightful free, as it is illegal to own an endangered species.  Frightful, having lived nearly her whole life and depended almost entirely on humans for her survival, faces many challenges in her life in the wild.  There are natural dangers--other birds of prey, hurricanes--but the book's basic story relies on Frightful's increasing conflicts with humans.  Telephone wires cause an eletrocution threat, DDT poison weakens eggs, and Frightful faces a harrowing few days trying to raise young on a New York bridge.  The result of all three books has changed my way of looking at the world.  I have started a journal, I dream of living away from the strange world of humankind, I want to try dandelion salad and acorn pancakes, and I constantly watch the skies for peregrine falcons soaring above (there is only one nesting pair in Georgia this year but I am paying attention to conservation efforts to help Frightful and her kind).  With this beautiful special edition of three incredible books, I look forward to sharing the story of Sam Gribley and Frightful with my own children someday.	2001-02-07
US	46961402	R2A5BT38PQ4E4C	0060219491	39038250	The wounded wolf	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An engaging story from the author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES	That master of accurate wolf storytelling, Jean Craighead George, has presented a fine picture book.  Sadly, it is out-of-print, and I have to read it by checking it out from my local library.  The story concerns a young wolf named Roko, who is injured during his pack's hunt and is left, helpless and dying, on an Alaskan ridge.  Many Arctic animals come wanting to feast on Roko's remains when he is dead--an arctic fox, a snowy owl, a bear, ravens--thus, children not only learn about the many species of animal life in this seemingly barren, desolate land, but they also learn about ecology, how everything is connected in the natural world, and how death can really be a part of life.  The ending shows how loyal wolves are to one another, when Roko's leader helps him to survive.  The black and white ink drawings are nothing spectacular, but they do excellently accent the simplicity and poetry of Ms. George's words.	2001-02-05
US	46961402	R2ONA64HIMP590	0060201932	544533725	The Moon of the Owls (The Thirteen Moons Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Thirteen Moons Series	I thought I'd take this space to review not only THE MOON OF THE OWLS but the whole Thirteen Moons series, rather than all thirteen books in different areas.  Jean Craighead George is the author of the JULIE OF THE WOLVES books, the MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN trilogy, and more than eighty other spectacular  nature books for young readers.  With the Thirteen Moons series, she introduced the worlds of different, often little-known-about animals to children.  Now, even though the books are over thirty years old and out-of-print I, a huge Jean Craighead George admirer and nature lover, am enjoying reading them one by one, checking them out of my local library.  Here is a list of the Thirteen Moons series: The Moon of the. . . Alligators Bears Chickarees Deer Fox Pups Moles Monarch Butterflies Mountain Lions Owls Salamanders Wild Pigs Winter Bird Gray Wolves The stories concern the habits and activities of all of these different animals, under the light of the wintery full moon.  These would be excellent resources for a nature or science class, for children can learn about animal behavior, and the cycle of the moon around the Earth, and enjoy doing so.  Each book is interesting and well-written, as are just about every one of Ms. George's books.  (Moles? you may say.  Who wants to read about moles?  Really, you'll want to go out in your backyard looking for these small, but nonetheless exciting creatures once you read the book!)  I wish these would be re-released, as were VULPES THE RED FOX, DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK, and a few other of Ms. George's books.  But no matter how you read them, you can't help falling in love with them.  Any nature lover will find herself looking closer at the lunar surface, more alertly at the soil, more admiringly at the birds.  The illustrations for each book are just fine, too, but the true poetry lies in the words of Jean Craighead George, a naturalist and one of our finest children's writers.	2001-02-05
US	46961402	R2OKRFKCLAUBVV	0064462013	679302059	The Tarantula in My Purse: and 172 Other Wild Pets	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Charm, comedy, disgust, heartwarmth--a kid's favorite mix!	All of Jean Craighead George's great nature books come from experience (she spoke with wolves, had a falcon, has seen the most magnificent places in our country) but this is the one that is entirely autobiographical (she did write an autobiography but it is out of print).  Stories charming, hilarious, gross, and heartwarming grace the pages of this unputdownable book.  Readers can truly enjoy this book if they read related stories like THE SUMMER OF THE FALCON, THE CRY OF THE CROW, and THERE'S AN OWL IN THE SHOWER.  All will smile at the true-life details that contribute to those tales.  While most of the nature takes place indoors, nature lovers will still learn further about birds, mammals, and insects.  This is a truly enjoyable book for any animal lover and Jean Craighead George fan.	2001-02-04
US	46961402	RHP0F9F1URFF	0064406822	871217765	There's an Owl in the Shower	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good Story About Environmentalism for the Younger Audience	While this is a great book about ecology and how everything in the natural world is interconnected, I felt that it was written without the same grace and beauty that is present in Jean Craighead George's other children's nature stories. Perhaps it was too young for me (even though it deals with some thoughtful topics).  The plot concerns a young boy, Borden, whose father's logging business is threatened by environmentalists who are concerned with the decimation of trees will have a bad impact on the wildlife in the area.  When Borden finds an orphaned spotted owl--one of the creatures that has spawned the battle between environmentalists and businessmen--tension mounts, but Borden's father slowly comes to love the owlet.  The whole story should make readers interested in owls and the environment, but someone who was looking forward to something on the same high level as JULIE OF THE WOLVES will be disappointed. This is an excellent book to share with a class discussing the environment and owls.  Also, look into THE TARANTULA IN MY PURSE AND 172 OTHER WILD PETS, Ms. George's autobiographical story, which has--guess what?--an owl in the shower!	2001-02-04
US	46961402	R3R24VTEN3YWWP	0690792697	770581227	Summer of the Falcon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fine story from a great nature writer	This semi-autobiographical novel by Jean Craighead George, our best children's nature writer of today, is a fine portrait of a child becoming an adult in the confusing, often tedious world of adolescence.  Ms. George, author of JULIE OF THE WOLVES, MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, and over eighty other books for young readers, does a splendid job managing to develop characters and blend humanity with the natural world.  June Pritchard (reminiscent of the author's name) is given a sparrow hawk on her thirteenth birthday.  Over the course of several summers, she trains him, while maturing herself, and forms a strong bond with her feathered friend.  Fans of Frightful in the MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN trilogy will love to read more about falconry and birds of prey.  And girls, especially, can relate to June's frustration as she grows up.  All in all, this is a beautiful book, one that any nature lover can enjoy.	2001-02-04
US	46961402	R2M14OICTP6P7J	0140376232	31472760	Vulpes, the Red Fox	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A fine nature read from two master storytellers	This was Jean Craighead George's first book and is, as are the majority of her eighty or so others, a masterpiece of nature writing.  Originally published in 1948, the book has, thankfully, been reprinted so that it may be enjoyed by young readers once again.  Ms. George also wrote DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK, also reprinted, and several other out-of-print but nonetheless wonderful nature stories, with her ex-husband John George, before going on to write such classics as MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN and the JULIE OF THE WOLVES books.  The story concerns a young red fox in the woods of Maryland named Vulpes (all of the Georges' characters were named after their Latin scientific identifications) and his abilities outwit and outrun the hunters who are after him.  Gorgeous wash illustrations by Ms. George herself and a spellbinding climax at the end make this a wonderful addition to any nature lore- or children's- book collection.	2001-01-25
US	46961402	R1U0THL6U2S6CL	0140376224	725345073	Dipper of Copper Creek	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Don't rip this one apart	One of the other reviewers on this page does not seem to know what he/she is talking about.  The animals in the book do not talk.  Instead, they are projected with dignity and accuracy.  Jean Craighead George, author of the Julie books, the My Side of the Mountain books, and nearly eighty other wonderful nature stories for children, wrote DIPPER OF COPPER CREEK with her husband John George (they are now divorced), as well as VULPES THE RED FOX, VISON THE MINK, and other fine but, in my opinion, not appropriately recognized nature books.  This is a wonderful book, and the story of a young boy becoming a man while his favorite birds become independent around him, is unforgettable.  Any nature lover will appreciate this book.  You must look deep into the poetic and beautiful text and know that this is indeed not a book to be ripped apart.	2001-01-19
US	46961402	R1YBD3N6GBA9CU	0786803150	58938335	Arctic Son	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A splendidly written and illustrated story	This is a gorgeous book, from the author of the Julie books (JULIE OF THE WOLVES, JULIE, JULIE'S WOLF PACK, and NUTIK, THE WOLF PUP).  Jean Craighead George, writer of more than eighty books for children, naturalist, and expert on Eskimo culture and the Inupiaq language, does an excellent job with this recent addition to her works.  Not to mention the illustrations by Wendell Minor, who has illustrated more of Ms. George's books.  They're wonderously beautiful watercolors, filled with expression that highlight Ms. George's words equally fine words.  The story is that of Ms. George's grandson, Luke, who lives in Barrow, Alaska, near the top of the world.  Though his parents, Craig and Cyd, are from the lower forty-eight, Luke knows a lot about the Eskimo culture around him, gathering knowledge over the years from an Inupiat friend of the Georges.  Luke is referred to as Kupaaq, the native language name that the friend gave to him when he was born.  The beautiful Inupiaq language is seen many times through the course of the book, as are details of the culture and the tundra life surrounding Barrow.  This is an excellent choice for a cold winter's night by the fire, for children to learn about others like them, who may live thousands of miles away.	2001-01-19
US	46961402	R2KFLZSV8781U3	0064401316	604621497	Cry of the Crow: A Novel	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Another unforgettable read from a master of nature lore	I was surprised at the number of reviews there were for this book.  I have reviewed many more of Ms. George's books on Amazon.  While this is not quite up to level of her other books for children, it's still interesting, as all of Ms. George's nature stories are.  Jean Craighead George is the author of the Julie books and HOW TO TALK TO YOUR DOG and HOW TO TALK TO YOUR CAT.  In all of these she goes into great detail about animal communications, as she does in this fascinating look into the world of crows.  People who enjoy this will probably like Ms. George's autobiographical account of THE TARANTULA IN MY PURSE AND 172 OTHER WILD PETS.  Throughout her life, Ms. George owned a number of crows among other wild animals, and many details, from how the crow learns to mimic English to playing on a sliding board, leap out of real life onto the pages of the book.  Some nature lovers may be disappointed at the lack of descriptive outdoor life, as the plot relies heavily on human activity.  But the book--entertaining, jolting, with a thought-provoking and startling ending--is altogether a fine read.	2001-01-19
US	46961402	R2UKHX6ALKY1Z9	006023640X	91553218	Look to the North: A Wolf Pup Diary	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A splendid picture book from a true wolf-lover	In short, this is a wonderful book.  Jean Craighead George, author of over eighty books for children, excellently combines her knowledge and love of wolves with her love of words.  Written like a mix between the JULIE OF THE WOLVES books and DEAR REBECCA, WINTER IS HERE, this elegant story will find its way into the heart of anyone who adores and respects these magnificent animals, or anyone who admires nature.  The illustrations are also spectacular and heartfelt.  You can see more of my reviews at other Jean Craighead George titles.	2001-01-19
US	46961402	R2JHK8BKJINYT3	0060281642	400162857	Nutik, the Wolf Pup	Books	4	6	10	N	N	The Newest Addition to the Julie Books Makes Me Growl	First of all, I must say I was a bit disappointed when I got this book.  I am a huge Jean Craighead George fan, but I am not so fond of the illustrations.  I am much more fond of John Schoenherr and Wendell Minor, who illustrated the other Julie books.  Also I don't think the same beautiful effect of the Julie novels is present in this young children's story.  But overall, it's a fine addition to the Julie trilogy.  Julie's story begins, of course, in the magnificent Newbery-Award winning JULIE OF THE WOLVES.  Next comes the thought-provoking sequel, JULIE, and then, my personal favorite because of my love of wolves, JULIE'S WOLF PACK.  It is in the latter that Nutik, the wolf pup, and his sister Uqaq are born and raised by Julie and her little brother, Amaroq (the main character in this story).  The wolves try to take Nutik back, but Amaroq resists them.  Nutik belongs to a human pack now, just as, for a long time, Julie, the human, belonged to a wolf pack.  Or does he?  I think one of the main reasons I actually appreciated this somewhat disappointing book was because it helps to extinguish cruel and misleading thoughts about wolves.  Young children should grow up reading books like this instead of LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD, and older kids should read books like JULIE OF THE WOLVES, JULIE, and JULIE'S WOLF PACK.  Whichever one of Ms. George's eighty or so books one reads, one always comes away with a feeling of a deeper respect and love for our natural world.	2001-01-13
US	46961402	R2EAXZDDSXKL5T	0881602833	84689172	Jean Craighead George (Meet the Author Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fine biography	Jean Craighead George is one of the most prestigious and one of the best children's authors of this century.  She is my personal favorite, for she has taught me to love and respect our natural world.  Her life is just as captivating and interesting as her books, for she herself has experienced the worlds of Julie Miyax Kapugen and Sam Gribley, and that is how she writes so well about them.  While this book is a little dated--Ms. George has written dozens more books since its publication--every reader who, like me, has come to adore her books will want to know more about the author's extraordinary life.  From early childhood she has loved nature and animals, and in her long, productive life that love has never faded.  Like Sam in MY SIDE OF THE MOUNTAIN, she ate wild foods and had pet birds.  Grown up, she went to the North Slope of Alaska and communicated with those magnificent animals, wolves, like JULIE OF THE WOLVES.  Before you read this book, it would be a good idea to read Ms. George's eighty or so others, so that you can truly be interested in this biography.  I highly recommend this book for anyone, young or old, who loves and respects nature, animals, and the eloquent words of today's most distinguished and beloved children's nature writer.	2001-01-09
US	46961402	REXRCJGPJI37F	0060270926	798794031	How to Talk to Your Dog (Talk to Your Pets)	Books	5	6	18	N	N	The Most Fun Language to Learn: Canine!	Calling upon her knowledge of wolf behavior and animal language, prestigious author Jean Craighead George explains to her readers &quot;how to talk to your dog.&quot;  The renowned author of such children's classics as Julie of the Wolves and My Side of the Mountain, Ms. George does an excellent job with her latest book.  In my opinion, this is the only book any dog owner will ever need.  Forget training manuals and harsh canine ideals, and get this book.  Teaching owners how to express dominance, love, and companionship, the book not only educates one about canine language, it also strengthens the bond between dogs and their two-legged alphas, with loving, informative text and friendly pictures featuring the author herself.	2000-12-27
