US	47066930	R3UC1R72P7IUCB	0446600415	619563221	The Day After Tomorrow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An amazing rollercoaster	&quot;The Day After Tomorrow&quot; is a fast-paced thrill ride. It starts as a man named Paul Osbourne sees his father's killer sitting across from him in a cafe. When Paul's emotions get the better of him, he attacks the man in front of everyone.<br />As the story progresses, not only do we find out that there was more to this man as we thought, but there is more to EVERYONE do we think. Paul and an American police officer (sent over to France to investigate some strange beheadings) are sent on a mad dash across Europe to escape an evil Orginazation set on killing anyone who gets in the way.<br />Plots and subplots galore keep this book interesting from the first page to the last. And with a finishing line enough to make one re-read it dozens of times before finally closing the cover, this is definately a book that shouldn't be missed.	2004-02-09
US	47066930	R1ZN5TSVRWCPJ0	156076905X	231611650	The Medusa Plague: Defenders of Magic Trilogy, Volume 2	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An interesting concept..	&quot;The Medusa Plague&quot; is probably one of the most interesting Dragonlance books that is out there. Not simply because of the storyline, but for the characters as well. When I started this series, I had no idea whom the villians would progress to be. So, needless to say, in this book the actions of certain characters were a little suprising.<br />Guarrand comes back to his hometown after finding out from his younger nephew that a mysterious plauge is decimating the village. Everyone who contracts this plauge gets the luxury of having their arms and legs turned into writhing snakes. They suffer for three days until finally turning to stone. (See the connection to Medusa?). <br />Anyway, this book is good. I didn't like the series at first. But, with the addition of this book, it gets a little better. I can say by the end of this book I was enjoying this series much more than before. It is worth checking out. This book is probably the best out of the trilogy.	2003-04-02
US	47066930	R3AL7CO2972C07	1560768401	568986472	Night of the Eye: Defenders of Magic Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Slow...but a decent finish...	When I first started this series, I was a little dissapointed. Not only was the dialogue boring and a little tedius to get through, but the characters weren't that likable from the start. BUT, as the book progressed, their were a few more things to keep it interesting. The end of the books was ok, a little abrubt. But, I can't say anything about it without giving away some of the story, so I will let the readers decide.<br />If 1)You are a fan of Dragonlance, 2) You are a fan of Mages in Dragonlance, then you should get this book. It takes place nearly 300 years after the Cataclysm, and really gives insight into the magical side of Krynn.	2003-04-02
US	47066930	RRSJ79QOD6DBE	156076905X	231611650	The Medusa Plague: Defenders of Magic Trilogy, Volume 2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An interesting concept..	&quot;The Medusa Plague&quot; is probably one of the most interesting Dragonlance books that is out there. Not simply because of the storyline, but for the characters as well. When I started this series, I had no idea whom the villians would progress to be. So, needless to say, in this book the actions of certain characters were a little suprising.<br />Guarrand comes back to his hometown after finding out from his younger nephew that a mysterious plauge is decimating the village. Everyone who contracts this plauge gets the luxury of having their arms and legs turned into writhing snakes. They suffer for three days until finally turning to stone. (See the connection to Medusa?). <br />Anyway, this book is good. I didn't like the series at first. But, with the addition of this book, it gets a little better. I can say by the end of this book I was enjoying this series much more than before. It is worth checking out. This book is probably the best out of the trilogy.	2003-04-02
US	47066930	RBH01ZS1VYYOJ	0345348702	268217544	White Gold Wielder (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A heartfelt tale	The final book of the 2nd Chronicles does not fail to excite. This book is nothing but amazing. This book is full of so much emotion that it is hard not to feel it inside yourself. This book does take a while to read, only because it is so deep. You have to focus totally on what is happening to realize the vision that Donaldson is trying to invoke in all of us.<br />Covenant, Linden, and some of the Giants return to the Land in an effort to destroy the ruthless Clave and eventually take a path that leads them to Lord Foul himself. This book is a GREAT ending to the series. Questions are finally answered and plots finally come to a close. Sadness is something that runs rampant through this book. Be prepared for your heart to go out to one of the most troubled heros in the fantasy genre.	2003-03-23
US	47066930	R1TQTTHND4C9Y6	0345348699	157482235	The One Tree (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Plot twists galore	The One Tree does not fail to dissapoint if you are a fan of Thomas Covenant. In an effort to return the Earthpower to the Land: Thomas, Linden, and some newly met Giants (along with Vain and some new companions) go on a desperate search for the powerful One Tree. In the first Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, the Staff of Law was destroyed, and Covenant plans to make another one from the wood of the one tree.<br />Many things happen in this book. Though, it is the slowest book in the series. But, the action scenes to make up for the lulls. Covenant must endure with the sake of the Land at stake. With his friends, (old and new) he must go on a trek that seems almost impossible.<br />Donaldson fails to dissapoint with this book. It is filled with some of his best work and moves the story ahead to finish in the wonderful 3rd book of the series. The One Tree is a book full of plot twists, intrigue, action, and adventure. Be sure to check it out.	2003-03-21
US	47066930	R2KE6HLUS9NIV0	0345348680	75353792	The Wounded Land (The Second Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Wounded Land...	Thomas Covenant is again summoned to the Land in &quot;The Wounded Land&quot;, the first book in the 2nd Chronicles. This time is different though, not only is his return to the Land rought with difficulty and suprises, but someone else has been summoned with him. Linden Avrey, a doctor, is brought into the strange land with Covenant. Together, they face a land that is nowhere close to what it used to be.<br />Covenant is shocked by what he sees. It has been 10 years since he had been to the Land. But time in the Land passes quicker, and by that time, it has been 3 1/2 thousand years.<br />Lord Foul has been at work. He was hurt in the last series, but he was not defeated. He is back and his touch is felt almost everywhere. Earthpower is seriously lacking. Covenant can't believe what he sees.<br />But, with the help of Linden and a few other friends. He begins a trek to destroy Foul once and for all. The first book relays his suprise with the Land and his thoughts on how to fix it. <br />Donaldson does it again. A great peice of Fantasy.	2003-03-05
US	47066930	R43I3BZLTU1SB	0345348672	150650131	The Power That Preserves (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A great addition to Fantasy	The final book in the Thomas Covenant trilogy does not dissapoint! This book is full of so much action, emotion, and intrigue to keep any reader hooked. The book starts when the Unbeliever is again summoned to the land, this time by a rather unlikely source. Covenant's mission this time in the Land is simple, destroy Lord Foul.<br />But, how will he accomplish such a thing? Lord Foul has rebuilt his army, and it is even bigger than before. And the army has only one purpose, to destroy everything on the Land. Covenant and some old friends (and enemies) must fight to stop Foul before it is too late. Emotions run high in this final book of The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever.	2003-02-25
US	47066930	R15DUHO9XAMEEY	0345348664	150650131	The Illearth War: The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book Two	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The war for the Land begins.	&quot;The Illearth War&quot;, book 2 in the Thomas Covenant series is nothing but a maserpiece. Covenant the Unbeliever is again summoned to the Land to help the people survive the first onslaught of Lord Foul's army. Covenant finds himself following a woman who he would have never guess existed. This book is full of nothing but suprises and heartfelt emotions.<br />Covenant is still questioning the reality of the Land. He can't believe that his leprosy and his failings can simply disappear into nothing. The Land seems too good to be true. But, he seems to be the Land's only hope. Plagued by Ravers, ur-viles, and deformed followers of Foul, Covenant must go on a trek for the Seventh Ward of Kevin Landwaster. <br />But will his efforts be enough? This book is full of emotions and enough action to keep a reader hooked. Donaldson is an amazing writer who deserves a lot of praise for these books. They are nothing short of amazing.	2003-02-18
US	47066930	R3I5VAI6AXO9LU	0345348656	150650131	Lord Foul's Bane (The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever, Book 1)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	A book that anyone could simpathize with.	&quot;Lord Foul's Bane&quot;, the first book in the Thomas Covenant Chronicles brings to life a man seeking a place in this world. Thomas Covenant is a Leper. He is feared by everyone in his town. His wife has left him, taking their one son along with her. Covenant makes himself numb to all emotions, trying desperately to find a place to fit in. <br />Some events happen, and suddenly Covenant finds himself in a world where his problems make him a legendary hero. He is mistaken as a long dead hero of &quot;The Land&quot;. A different world where his leporasy deminishes and his nerves begin to feel again. Covenant cannot believe what is going on in his life.<br />What would you think if you were suddenly brought from one world to another? Would you believe? Covenant didn't. And this is how he earns the name, Thomas Covenant the Unbeliever. <br />This book is filled with a lot of emotion. Covenant is a guy that everyone can see what it would be like to be in his shoes. Not only is he in a strange world. But everything that he thought he lost before is suddenly returning to him thanks to the special powers of The Land. Covenant meets many new people on his time in The Land. This book is a definate must for any fantasy reader. It is filled with action, adventure, emotion, excitement. Everything you could want in a book is in this one. At times it is a little slow, but the climax and emotions that run through this book do more than take your mind away from that. <br />Lord Foul's Bane is a definate must read!	2003-01-24
US	47066930	R2MAIBX3KYLWO4	1560761148	986490105	003: The Qualinesti (Dragonlance: Elven Nations, Vol. 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great read	\\"The Qualinesti\\" is definately a great book. Not only is it full of action and adventure. But it come across with actual real emotions that people can relate too. There is jealousy, deceit, sadness and many other emotions filling this book. I had heard mixed reviews about this book before I read it. But, I was pleasently suprised by how good this book actually was. I liked it as much, of not more, than \\"The Firstborn\\" (The first book in this trilogy). This book brings about the end of a legacy. It is a little depressing, but it is nice to see the state of the Qualinesti under the leadership of Kith-Kanan and his son. A definate must for Dragonlance fans.	2002-11-27
US	47066930	R3QVM0G2RROTLN	156076113X	559446152	The Kinslayer Wars (DRAGONLANCE SAGA)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Depressing, yet enjoyable	\\"The Kinslayer Wars\\", but Douglas Niles is probably one of the better Dragonlance books out there. It has its share of action and adventure. Though, as the story nears its end, Niles seems to kill off characters just to keep the plot moving. Granted, it represents actions that needed to take place, yet many of the deaths seem to be unjustified. But, all in all, this book is enjoyable to read, albeit a little depressing towards the end. It has a lot of action, much of the book centering around pivitol battles and situations during the Kinslayer Wars. This book isn't that long, only about 300 or so pages so it is a quick read.<br />If you want to learn more about the Elven past, this book and series is what you need. It reveals pivitol information that deals with the seperation of the Silvanesti elves, and the reasons for Kith-Kanan's ideas of founding a new nation for himself, the Qualinesti. If you can get a hold of this book or series, check it out. It is worth the read.	2002-11-22
US	47066930	R2F8VKCQW14O46	1560760516	345762205	001: Firstborn (The Elven Nation Trilogy, Volume One : Dragonlance)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	One of the better Dragonlance books...	&quot;Firstborn&quot; is definately one of the better Dragonlance books out there. It is very slow during the beginning. Most of the book drags on, but the good thing is that it goes by quickly. The book isn't long, only around 300 pages. But the ending gets a lot better and sets up for much more action to come.<br />The book starts out with the birth of Kith-Kanan and Sithas. Sithas being the firstborn is destined to be the next Speaker of the Stars. The brothers have a bond that is almost unbreakable, and a love that is true. But when Kith does something that angers his family, he flees and meets friends in the outer woods. Here, he learns that life isn't the same as it is in the city of Silvanost. But, in desperate situations, Sithas calls his brother back to Silvanost and events begin to unfold that are beyond either of the twin's control. <br />While the book does start out slow, it is good enough to keep you reading. It is full of intrigue that most Dragonlance books are lacking in. I have read almost all of the DL books out there, and I can rate this one near the top of the list. If you can find it, it is a definate must!	2002-11-13
US	47066930	R3TDI00I6RK9BF	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Renders me almost speechless	After the suprising events in this book, I could only find myself saying one word when finished, \\"Wow\\". \\"A Storm of Swords\\" is full of so many plot twists that just when one thinks they know what is going on, something completely different happens and takes the reader by suprise. I will give Martin kudos for the fact that I only predicted a few events beforehand that actually happened. Many books nowdays are full of predictable work that is almost boring to read. The same can not be said for this book, or this series.<br />\\"A Storm of Swords\\" finally brings into play more of the life of the Black Brothers and the Wildlings. But don't be fooled, that isn't all that the book covers. Troubles in the Kingdoms are still being brought into play. We see more from Dany and learn everything there isn't what meets the eye. The Kings are all still fighting for control. <br />Deaths aplenty happen in this book, some more suprising than others. But that does not take away from the appeal of the book. There are a few characters that have died in the past books that I would rather not have been killed off, and this book is no exception. That is really the only problem I have with the book. But, I am willing to accept the deaths as part of the plot that is keeping this wonderful story moving along.<br />I was a little hesitant when I picked this series up first. It started off a little slow. But now...to me there is never a dull moment. The chapters flow together smoothly, and never once have I been bored. The action is incredible. The plots/subplots/subsubplots are simply amazing and intriguing. This book really brings to play many of the main characters. Finally we see more from Jaime's point of view. Samwell is another character that gets a POV in this book. <br />Since starting this series, I can probably rate it up to one of the best of all time in my opinion. It blows every other series I have read out of the water. George R.R. Martin is a great author and I look forward to his next book, which hopefully comes out soon. If \\"A Feast for Crows\\" (Supposedly the next book's title) is as good as this one and the ones before it, I will not hesitate to spend the money to add it to my collection.	2002-11-04
US	47066930	RQXK3YGUSZZMS	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The battles begin..	&quot;A Clash of Kings&quot; keeps going where Martin's other book &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot; left off. This book, like his others, has plenty of action, intrigue, adventure to keep any fantasy fan hooked. Martin does a wonderful job bringing us to terms with the characters that he has created. His unique character-based chapters don't take away from the story at all, they only succeed in planting the action right infront of the reader.<br />There are now four kings buying for the rulership of the kingdoms. Stannis, Renley, Joffrey, and Robb Stark. All of them want what the others have. But to make matters more exciting, the blood of the old rulers is returning. Dany, Mother of Dragons, is returning to reclaim her rightful place on the throne. The kingdoms seem to be in chaos, who will come out on top. While &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot; seemed more of a precurser to future events. This book actually brings those events to life. Armies meet, kings fall, there is no end to the action. <br />&quot;A Clash of Kings&quot; succeeds in bringing together real life emotions, with everyday horrors. This book moves the epic story along, and some things are solved, while other problems are just beginning. Who will come out on top? What of the problems in the North? And what about those words that should freeze the blood of the battling kings... &quot;Winter is coming...&quot;	2002-09-29
US	47066930	R3BT60BQN8D3YN	0880384654	603253220	Leaves from the Inn of the Last Home: The Complete Krynn Sourcebook (Dragonlance: Sourcebooks) (v. 1)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A great Dragonlance companion..	Being a fan of Dragonlance for many years, but also being unlucky to not get this book the first time it was published, I was very happy to see that the publishers decided to put this book up for sale again. &quot;Leaves from the Inn of the Last Home&quot;, is great if you want to know more history on the Dragonlance. It has a lot of info on the Gods of Krynn. There is deeply detailed information about the past of Krynn. Including wars, gods, dragons, and anything else you could possibly want to know.<br />There are also songs, poems, and recipes. Many of the songs and poems were published in the original Chronicles or Legends. But it is nice to have them in one place in easy reach. The recipes range from Gully Dwarf Stew to Otik's spicy potatoes. This book is definatley an entertaining companion to the Dragonlance world. People looked for it everywhere when it out out-of-print. So what better time to get it than now when they are publishing it again.	2002-09-29
US	47066930	R1K9SCES28YA92	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A great addition to the fantasy genre	George R.R. Martin does a masterful job creating a fantasy world in \\"A Game of Thrones\\". This book is a great addition to the fantasy world and should be picked up by anyone who is looking for a good read. While this book is written more for adult readers, it is a book that can be enjoyed by anyone. It is pretty long (800+ pages), but the action, intrigue, drama, and suspense keep the book going from the front cover, to the back.<br />A few things that make this book appeal more to an adult audience would include:<br />1. There is a lot of cursing. The characters will use curse words quite a bit in some of their conversations.<br />2. There is a lot of sexual scenes in the book, many of which are highly descriptive and involve younger characters.<br />3. There is some highly descriptive violence. Many scenes go in depth in deaths and murders.<br />4. While not a reason for being \\"adult\\", but this book is very richly detailed. Some younger readers would have trouble following all the plot lines and sub-plots that go on throughout the book. I know I had trouble following some of the plots, and I have been reading fantasy books for a long time.<br />All in all, this book is a definate must read. Martin created a fantasy world that is so richly detailed and so realistic, that it actually feels like you could be interacting with the characters. This book pulls on the reader's emotions as well. You will absolutely love some characters, while you will totally despise others. You will be sad for some, and happy for others. If you are looking for a book to take your mind off of everyday life and pulls you into a world of its own, this is the one. Check it out.	2002-08-29
US	47066930	RVY6JFB0D8EDC	0786927186	527590110	Betrayal (DragonLance: The Dhamon Saga, Volume II)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A step in the right direction..	Jean Rabe is probably one the most notorius writers in the Dragonlance world. People don't seem to like what her books tackled in her Dragons of a New Age trilogy. I for one am a fan of Rabe. I was immensly pleased with her DoNA books and looked forward to reading her Dhamon saga as soon as I had time. <br />This book starts where &quot;Downfall&quot; left off. Other than a short cameo in the beginning and end of the book by Rig and Fiona, the story mostly settles around Dhamon, Maldred, Riki, and an interesting draconian. Dhamon and Maldred are searching for a treasure, that when found, will hopefully help Dhamon find a cure for the cursed dragon scale in his leg. <br />&quot;Betrayal&quot; is full of enough adventure, excitement, backstabbing, and intrigue to keep any Dragonlance reader hooked. Rabe has really grown as a writer since her DoNA books. They just keep getting better. There are plenty of twists in this book to keep you guessing the whole time. The ending is a shocker and will easily keep you thinking about it until long after you are done, and will keep you begging for more. If you are a fan of Dragonlance, this book is a must.	2002-07-30
US	47066930	RCB6KZ07IBAJW	0786918144	852568235	Downfall (Dragonlance:  The Dhamon Saga, Book 1)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Downfall	Taking place after Rabe's &quot;Dragons of a New Age&quot; trilogy, Downfall brings into play one of the major characters that made her first books so interesting. Dhamon Grimwolf, an ex-Knight of Takhisis and hero from the New Age books, has become a common theif. He is in league with an interesting half-elf lover, a kobold, and a man named Maldred who is a little more than he seems.<br />This books also brings back the chracters of Rig and Fiona, both of which were major players in Rabe's New Age series. Together, this group of uncommon partners travel as one, both searching for something different. Dhamon is looking for a cure for the painful scale in his side. Fiona decided to travel with the thieves in an effort to save her brother who is a prisoner in Sable's (The black overlord) swamp. All things come together, but this book doesn't really have a climax or an ending. It finishes when it could have gone on for another 100 or so pages.<br />While I can't say that this book was great, it was was at most readable. I enjoyed Rabe's &quot;Dragons of a New Age&quot; trilogy much more than I liked this book. It is a little slow to read. Though there are a few exciting parts that add some fun. The characters have room to build, and hopefully that room is used. If you are a fan of Rabe, or of Dhamon Grimwolf, then this is the book for you.	2002-07-28
US	47066930	R23WVD8FXYQ01N	0786927402	980472752	Dragons of a Vanished Moon (The War of Souls, vol. 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dragons of a Vanished Moon	How to start this review...The only word that comes to mind after reading this book is, Suprising. So many things happen in this book that change the course of Krynn forever. After this book, life on Krynn will never be the same. For some life is starting, for others it is time to move on. <br />Mina and her One God, Takhisis, are taking control of much of Ansalon. They lead an assualt on the the city of Sanction. Mina forces are small, but she has something under her control that no one else has in their possession, the power of the dead. <br />Dragons of a Vanished Moon is a book with ultimate showdowns. We finally see a matched battle between Mina and Malys. The great overlord is angry that Mina is infringing on her land and actually becoming a threat. In an effort not to spoil this book for anyone who hasn't read it, I am leaving vital areas out. But this book promises to be a suprise to anyone who has been a Dragonlance fan for awhile, or even those new to the world.<br />The ending of this book is the most suprising part of the book. Things change drasticaly with the ending of Dragons of a Vanished Moon. The great thing is that the ending of this book opens up avenues for many more books to be written about Krynn. If you have been following Dragonlance for a long time, or are just into the War of Souls, this book is a must needed addition to your collection. It is full of suprises, action, humor, and intrigue. New and old friends join the adventures in Vanished Moon. This book is a definate must.	2002-07-16
US	47066930	RLS47CG7IBLEJ	0786927062	485622641	Dragons of a Lost Star (The War of Souls, Volume II)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The story begins to fall in place....	Dragons of a Lost Star is a book that will keep you guessing throughout the entire book. Not only is it finally revealed who Mina's mysterious One God is, but other factors come into play that make this book stand out among the many other Dragonlance books that have been written.<br />One word that can describe this book is &quot;suprising&quot;. There was so many things that happened in this book, where one finds themselves thinking they know what is going to happen, and then a twist is thrown into the story and something totally different happens. *SPOILERS* ahead.....<br />Anyone who has been a fan of Dragonlance will find the events that happen in this book to be very suprising to say the least. The identity of Mina's god for one. It was a suprise to see that Takhisis had had her hand in a lot of things that had happened since the Chaos War. Mina's faith in her, the One God, is bound to make Dragons of Vanished Moon a very exciting book. Another thing that I found suprising in this book was the destruction of Qualinesti. It was nice to see Beryl finally killed, but the elves are going to have to rise above the destruction of they have any hope of surviving.<br />All in all, the plot twist, surpises, emotional impacts in this book are amazing. Tasselhoff still is being his normal kender self, and new heros are rising out of the woodwork. This book is an amazing read and a must for any Dragonlance fan. Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman do an amazing job portraying Krynn in the Fifth Age. Check this book out, you wont be dissapointed.	2002-07-10
US	47066930	R2PIVLBKN1P0V5	0786918071	494288220	Dragons of a Fallen Sun (Dragonlance: The War of Souls, Volume I)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dragons of a Fallen Sun	Dragons of a Fallen Sun marked the return of Wies and Hickman to the Dragonlance world. This book takes up where Rabe's Dragons of a New Age series left off. This books begins with a mysterious arrival of a young woman named Mina. This woman quickly draws an army behind her with a new faith in One True God. She follows this god, and does anything and everything for it.<br />This book also follows the struggles of Palin Majere, Silvan (Alhana and Porthios's son), as well as Gilthas, the leader the Qualnesti. All of these stories are brought together into a great story that is bound to make an excellent trilogy. We finally meet some new characters, and are reunited with some old friends.<br />Wies and Hickman do an amazing job taking over where Rabe left off and continuing the struggles that are taking place on Krynn. This book is a great addition to the Dragonlance world, and will make everyone want to keep reading about the Fifth age.	2002-07-01
US	47066930	RPCF3BB02484Q	0786907495	738309255	The Eve of the Maelstrom (Dragonlance: Fifth Age)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An interesting ending...	The Eve of the Maelstrom, by Jean Rabe is a fine conlusion to an otherwise intresting series. Rabe does a great job bringing the heros together to fight against something that has been a problem throughout the whole trilogy: The Overlords. <br />I happened to find this trilogy exciting and worth the read. It definately leads nicely into Wies and Hickman's War of Souls Trilogy. Granted, Krynn is different in these books. But that doesn't make it any less interesting. In fact, I found these books just as interesting as the Chronicles trilogy that started the Dragonlance world. While these aren't AS good as previous Dragonlance books, they are still quite entertaining. <br />If you pass up these books cause of the poor reviews that it gets, then you are going to miss an exciting series. The adventure and action seems to never stop in these books. New mysteries are revealed, while others are solved. Finally the heros strike back against the massive Overlords. This book is definately worth the read. Don't pass it up. It sheds light onto the new face of Krynn. A Krynn without the gods.	2002-06-24
US	47066930	R43A2CQ59RCG2	0786906685	510581832	The Day of the Tempest (Dragonlance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Day of the Tempest	Jean Rabe did a masterful job with these books. Not only are they fun any interesting to read, but they don't have many chapters were nothing is happening. The action and adventure is pretty much non-stop. Rabe had a difficult job diving into this new world, after many Dragonlance readers (including myself) were still distraught over the emotional Dragons of Summer Flame. Jean did a great job with this book, as well as the rest of the series.<br />The Day of the Tempest keeps following the heros of the heart as they search for something to help rid Krynn of the evil overlords. The Dragon Overlords are building their armies and the knowledge of spawn is being passed between them. The heros must band together in search of magical artifacts that will help them gain the upperhand. This book really doesn't resolve much. It is basically centered on the companions searching for these magical artifacts. <br />All in all, this book is a great read. Jean Rabe has done an amazing job creating a world after the destruction that was caused in Dragons of Summer Flame. Of course there are a few problems and inconsistencies in this book, but it is still worth the read. This trilogy is a definate must read. Not only does it keep you pretty much hooked the entire way through, but it is a great backdrop of knowledge before reading the War of Souls trilogy by Wies and Hickman.	2002-06-21
US	47066930	RDTH6QYZAI33D	0786928425	23775909	The Dawning of a New Age (Dragonlance: Dragons of a New Age, Book 1)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Dawning of a New Age	Come on people..Think what Rabe had to do here. She had to dive into a Dragonlance world that had never been written about. One that was a suprise to most Dragonlance readers, but still, this had to happen sometime. This book is a great addition to the Dragonlance world. Not only does it have enough action and adventure to keep it exciting, but the story that goes with it is interesting to say the least.<br />Jean's characters are a little shallow, but what can you expect? This is a trilogy, there is a lot more time to expand on the little things that drive the characters. Keep in mind that Rabe had to start this new age and lead the pack into the new sets of books that were bound to follow them. Her destroying the Tower of High Sorcery in Palthanas was needed to move the story forward. It might be a spot that Dragonlance readers have been reading about since the start of their Dragonlance experience, but still...it was needed. <br />All in all this book is an enjoying read. Rabe's writing style is a little difficult to get used to, but it is still enjoying enough to keep turning the pages of the book. This book keeps on the legacy of Dragonlance and while it was difficult for Rabe to start a world from almost scratch, she has my respect for turning it into something that could be worked with.	2002-06-09
US	47066930	R1SEMMPBYYVVV3	078691324X	841876979	The Puppet King (Dragonlance Chaos Wars, Vol. 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A rich and exciting read...	&quot;The Puppet King&quot; but Douglas Niles is a book full of action, politics, exitement, and everything else you could possibly want in a Dragonlance novel. This book is strangely set up, being that it is told like a story, but that doesnt take away from the read. The story itself follows many different points of view. It follows the exiled elf, Porthios. It follows the young and troubled Speaker of the Suns, Gilthas. And even follows the thoughts of a massive green dragon.<br />This book is full of Dragonlance goodness. Not only is the story an exciting read, but the characters are nicely developed. This book is set during the Chaos War, The same time as Margeret Wies'and Tracy Hickman's great book &quot;Dragons of Summer Flame.&quot; It is nice to see the inner workings of the elven society, and see heroes rise up from unlikely places. This book is a must for any Dragonlance fan to read and enjoy.	2002-06-03
US	47066930	R1E5N1J6NKSMC4	0786916788	285939996	Draconian Measures (Dragonlance Kang's Regiment, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An amazing read	&quot;Draconian Measures&quot; was a great book full of action, humor, and almost any other emotion that you can think of. This book is amazing. Kang's dracos have successfully found the female eggs and are now among some of their own kind.<br />But just when they think things are going right, events start happening that Kang and company seem helpless to stop. Someone has hired a huge army of goblins and hobgoblins that are bent on the draconians destruction. <br />This story is amazing and full of action and adventure. Don Perrin does an amazing job with Draconians. His writing style puts him up as one of the top Dragonlance authors. &quot;Draconian Measures&quot; is a fun, exciting, and smooth read. It is nice to see draconians portrayed as the good guys. This book is a must for any Dragonlance fan.	2002-06-01
US	47066930	R37LUY3G45Y3IG	0786907851	286080779	The Doom Brigade (Dragonlance Kang's Regiment, Vol. 1)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Doom Brigade	&quot;The Doom Brigade&quot; by the husband and wife team of Margaret Weis and Don Perrin features the life and times of an eccentric group of Draconians during the same time period as &quot;Dragons of Summer Flame&quot;. These draconians have made a small little settlement, and have managed to live a reletively peaceful life in the mountains. They only have to deal with a dwarf raid every once in a while. <br />The authors of this book do an amazing job portraying Draconians as more than just the killers they were portrayed like in the first Dragonlance books. It is nice to read a book from their point of view, seeing exactly what they feel and think about the other races on Krynn. <br />This books has an amazing storyline, and is full of enuogh action and adventure to keep any fantasy reader hooked. There is tons of humor in this book. All of the characters have their own personality which is nice to see. The main characters in this book, including Kang (the lead Draconian), and his right hand man..err..Draconian, Slith, are all nicely developed and portrayed well. <br />The story and characters keep this book a fun read all the way though. It is one of the better books in the Dragonlance world. Not only are the characters fun to read about, but it is also fun to read from the other side for once. Seeing the story through the eyes of Draconians and not through the eyes of the &quot;Good Guys&quot;.	2002-05-27
US	47066930	R33HB2L966WNYL	0786911859	348391737	Tears of the Night Sky (Dragonlance Chaos Wars, Vol. 2)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Suprisingly entertaining	I wasn't too sure about this book when I first started it. I wasnt going to read it cause it got some bad reviews on here and on other pages. I even thought this book would be sort of a &quot;chick flick&quot;, if you will excuse the cliche. But as I read this book, I actually found myself liking it, and not being able to put it down.<br />The book starts out a little slow. It takes place during the War against Chaos, during the same time as &quot;Dragons of Summer Flame&quot; was set. Crysania decides to embark on a quest to find out why the gods are so distant lately. She must find some powerful artifacts in order to do this. She is accompanied by a group of adventurers that pledge to keep her safe on her journey. Also, Dalamar plays a part in this story. He is the one that shows Crysania what must be done in order for her to reach her goals. He also has his hands in other things in this story, but I won't spoil it. Read and find out.<br />While some of the chapters in this book might not have been neccessary. This books maintains a smooth and easy read all the way though. The thing that I found most entertaining was the way the authors brought together actual dialogue from &quot;Dragons of Summer Flame&quot; and fit them into this book just so you would know where it takes place in respect to that book. I also like the way the authors brought in Crysania's white tiger, Tandar. We learn about how she came to know the tiger, and how the tiger affects her day to day life. <br />The story itself is a little cheesy. But the authors do a good job explaining Crysania's fears with the coming of the War of Chaos. They also do a good job explaining what a sightless person feels and the way they interact with day to day life. The characters aren't very well rounded, and the story seems a little rushed, but all in all this book is pretty good. It is definately worth the read if you want to learn a little more about Crysania after her appearence in the &quot;Legends Trilogy&quot;. While this book doesn't have as much action as some other Dragonlance books, I still feel that it is worth the read.	2002-05-18
US	47066930	R1ZFMVJ20D1RJS	0060929855	868213085	Three Plays (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Anyone searching for some good plays?	Thorton Wilder is one of the best playrights of his generation. This book brings together three of his best plays. &quot;Our Town&quot; which is a play centered around one town, and the way life can change within it. &quot;the Skin of Our Teeth&quot;, which centers around one family that is going through all the changes that have ever happened in the world, including the ice age, world war 2, the depression, and so on. And finally &quot;the Matchmaker&quot; which is not the best play, but is still worth reading. Thorton Wilder does an amazing job with character developments and sub-plots, and these three plays really show his genius.	2002-04-08
US	47066930	R391RTTSWJYKUT	0786914297	617578452	Brothers in Arms (Dragonlance: Raistlin Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A worthy sequel	Brothers in Arms, by the husband and wife team of Margeret Weis and Don Perrin is a definate must read for any dragonlance fan. This book starts off where \\"Soulforge\\" ended. It depicts the early life of the twins, right after Raistlin has taken his test. The twins who already are bonded together by blood, build their companionship throughout this book, although for different reasons. Raistlin wants power, Caramon will go wherever his brother wants to go. The twins end up in a mercenary force where they are both respected and needed. <br />While the book mostly centers around the twins, it also has a major supporting role from their sister Kitiara. Margaret and Don do a great job showing just what the older sister must do to live by the sword. She is already powerful and has earned a reputation, but she is still being haunted by thoughts of Tanis. The only man that she truly ever loves. This book shows Kitiara and her first meeting with Araikus, the powerful Dragon Highlord. Araikus is building up his army for an all our raid on Krynn (War of the Lance). <br />The book travels along between the twins and Kitiara, until they end when they are all brought together in a very crafty way. It has enough suprising twists and turns, amd a plot that is one of the most interesting ever. Margaret and Don do a great job showing the personalities of the twins and Kitiara just how we see them in the chronicles and all other Weis and Hickman books. This book is no exception to their genius. It is a smooth and quick read. The book pulls you along with an exciting plot and enough action, humor, intrigue to keep any reader hooked. For any Dragonlance fan, this book is a must! Learn about the twins and their half-sister, and watch exactly what they think, hear, see. This book is a must needed addition to anyone's Dragonlance collection.	2002-03-31
US	47066930	RWL6FG0EJ0LKD	0786913142	40820868	The Soulforge (Dragonlance:  The Raistlin Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I, Magus	Finally Margaret Weis tells the story of the tortured soul, Raistlin Majere. This book is absolutely amazing, and tells you everything you could ever want to know about the archmagus. It starts out when Raistlin and Caramon are very young and follows them throughout their childhood and into their teenage years. We see Raistlin's love for magic, a love that he is willing to sacrafice everything for. <br />This book has some inconsistencies with the other preludes books with Raistlin's early years, and the life of his friends. But the book tells you that this is the TRUE story of Raistlin. As the boys grow up in Solace, we see the rest of the companions interacting with them, sharing in their day to day lives. We learn of the \\"boat incident\\" again with Caramon and Flint. Tasslehoff is in the book being his normal kender self. We see more into the struggle between Kitiara and Tanis. But most of all we see what the twins must go through, and how strong of a bond they really have. <br />All in all this book is amazing, relating the details of not only Raistlin's early life, but the early life of all of the companions. This book is very well written and a great read. It mostly centers around Solace, though there is a trip to the city of Haven where Raistlin and friends must take care of a little problem. Near the end of the book though, all of the companions leave Solace, making their promise to return in 5 years time (the beginning of Autumn Twilight). This is when Caramon and Raistlin leave, for the young magic user has been summoned to take his test at the Tower of High Sorcery. Though this book does speed through Raistlin's test a little too fast, it does answer a lot of questions about what exactly happened to Raistlin during it. We finally learn the truth behind his golden appearence and his hour-glass eyes, and we are finally shown a little bit behind the story of Fistandantilus, and what the evil wizard has to do with Raistlin's test. <br />This book is very entertaining. Highly recommend it to any Dragonlance fan. If you want to learn all about Raistlin and his twin, this is the book!	2002-03-11
US	47066930	REKNWFLEDG7HO	0880389109	404975088	4: Kaz the Minotaur (Dragonlance: Heroes)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A lasting hero	Kaz, the Minotaur by Richard Knaak is a worthy sequal to the smash 'The legend of Huma'. Richard has a writing style that is fun and interesting to read, and he rates close to Wies and Hickman themselves with his talent. This book is no exception. It is filled with a wonderful storyline that sweeps you away into Kaz's world in the years following the first Dragonwar. Huma is now 5 years dead, and Kaz still feels that he could have done something to help the Knight to destroy Takhisis. For a Minotaur, he has a strong sense of loyalty and is steadfast in his beliefs. This book starts with Kaz running from another band of Minotaurs who are intent on taking him back to their homeland where Kaz is charged with being dishonerable and treasonous. His kender companion, Delbin, keeps this story funny and exciting the whole way through. This book is an absolute must for any dragonlance fan. It sheds must needed light on Kaz, and the pains and struggles he goes through after the death of Huma Dragonbane. This book is definately worth the read. A must!	2002-03-07
US	47066930	R3N4GP3QY59819	0671722719	43217624	Julius Caesar (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great play	Julius Caesar is probably one of the better plays written by Shakespeare. This play if full of intrigue, action, betrayal, and emotion. This play is not very long (5 acts), which makes it a quick and exciting read. The characters are built nicely, and what is nice about this version of the book, is that it is easy to read, and any words that may be unfamiliar are defined on the opposite page, making it easy to look them up, and understand Shakespeare's difficult writing style. This is definately a play worth checking out. It's a fun read, and with plenty of helpful tools built in to help along the way.	2002-02-21
US	47066930	R3DHQ6OQ0TRUWP	0553290983	371462393	Elven Star (The Death Gate Cycle, Volume 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	2nd in a great series	Elven star, like the rest of the books in the series, is a great read. Not only is it full of action and adventure that will leave you breathless, but the character growth and dialogue is amazing. We see more of Haplo's character in this book, but it also centers around the life of the races living on this world of Pyran. Weis and Hickman do an amazing job with this book. They bring to the front a life and death struggle for everyone on the world. The races must band together, but can they? before it is too late? A race of massive Tytans threatens to demolish everything on the planet in their search for their old leaders. Together, a ragtag group of adventurers must flee from these monster's massive power, and help each other stay alive. <br />And people who say that this book is not needed in the series are sorely dissapointed. If you read this book, and see what is going on, you will realize that stuff that happens in this book is vital to the later books in the series. This book is a definate must, this whole series is great, complete with humor, action, adventure, everything Weis and Hickman are great at. A definate must.	2002-02-19
US	47066930	R2M6T4H64KB458	0880385480	695622507	The Legend of Huma (Heroes, Volume 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One word.....Amazing	The Legend of Huma, by Richard Knaak is one of the best dragonlance books that has ever graced the pages of a Dragonlance novel. This book is filled with so much action and emotion that it is almost too much to handle. What i like about this book, is that Huma is not portrayed as a godlike character, he is just an average knight that wants to stop the hideous army of the Darkqueen as they demolish everything in their path. <br />Huma has a strong sense in faith and power as he builds his character throughout this story. Richard does a good job in portraying Huma's growth throughout the book. Not only does he have to face what seems like a never ending stream of enemies, he must also face his love for a mysterious woman, who is more than she seems. This book does an amazing job in painting in vivid detail the battles that the knights must go through, and the enemies they must face.<br />But anyone who has read the Dragonlance chronicles, or any other book that has to do with the knighthood, know that Huma's battles were more than just with the minions of Takhisis. He must also face the racism that the people are building towards the knights, he must help his friends, who are outcasts from the begining. Huma has a strong sense of loyalty towards Magius and Kaz in this book. He is strong of heart, and even though Magius has changed from the man he knew growing up, he is still willing to go along with his childhood friend, searching for anything that can end the war.<br />Kaz is also a character that is built well in this book. His interactions with Huma do a lot to build his character. Huma and him build a friendship that no one would have thought could be done between a Knight of the Crown, and a minotaur. But together, the face dangers worthy of godlike proportions.<br />All in all, Richard did a very good job in the story of Huma. The characters were built well, and the story was more than interesting enough to hold you the entire way through. It is emotional though, as all wars are, but this one takes the cake. Many people and dragons die in this book. But the most heartfelt story in this book, which Richard portrays very well, is what Huma and Gweneth must go through in order to save the world, forsaking their love for the good of the world. <br />If you are a fan of Dragonlance, this book is a must. Richard Knaak is one of the better Dragonlance writers out there, and this books puts another star to his name. Legend of Huma is action packed and emotional, a definate must.	2002-02-16
US	47066930	R1YBGLCYRJV4IB	0786927003	720682472	2: The Best of Tales (DragonLance: Volume Two)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A nice collection of stories...	While this book is not one of the better Dragonlance books, it does have its high points. It is filled with some interesting stories, many of which are filled with the humor and action that is needed to keep a reader hooked. One thing that is enjoyable about this book, is that it doesn't have stories just thrown in it to fill up space. It is an enjoyable read the whole way through. Many people don't like reading Dragonlance if it isnt by Wies and Hickman, and I could agree most of the time, there have been few authors that could rival their genius in the world of Krynn, but this book brings together a nice collection of stories to keep the reader entertained the whole way through. This book is definately a must for anyone who loves Dragonlance, or is just a fan of the fantasy genre.	2002-02-16
US	47066930	R3CD2R7F10FALE	0786926902	161290361	The Cleric Quintet Collector's Edition [Forgotten Realms]	Books	5	46	49	N	N	A fun and exciting read	I read this set of books about 3 times, that is how good they are. I also read them before i had ever heard of Drizzt, and i loved them everytime i read them. Now all of the 5 wonderful books are in a convenient collectors edition. There is a wonderful set of hero's in these books, all of them with their strengths or weaknesses. Cadderly, the main hero, must face his weaknesses just like all the others. Salvatore does a good job portraying the characters, proving that they are not \\"godlike characters\\". They must face powers in these books that they can never hope to defeat? or can they? These books are filled with fun and excitement all the way through. Two dwarven brothers, a beautiful monk woman, and a chattering squirrel make up the cast of good heros through most of the books. All of the books are uniquely different, throwing different bad guys against the heros until the final books when they must face an ultimate evil. These books are definately some of Salvatore's best. I highly recommend them if you are a fan of Drizzt, or Salvatore. You might recognize some of the characters in these books if you have read the later books in the Drizzt series.	2002-02-10
US	47066930	R11LT5U9CWP2MC	078691811X	432976816	The Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms Omnibus)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great adventure	R.A. Salvatore has a way of making his characters come to life, and with the Icewind Dale trilogy, it is no exception. These books shed some more life on Drizzt, everyone's favorite dark elf. As well as his friends Bruenor, and Cattie-Brie. The three books in this series, are full of action and adventure, suspense and emotional moments. They are all great, none of them could get much better. Salvatore's writing style is great, making you see what is happening in his head, and making you lose yourself in his world. <br />The three books in this series, show that battle that these friends must make. Bringing in new characters like Wulfgar and Artemis, Drizzt's archenemy. Before you start this series, make sure that you read the dark elf trilogy first, just so you get what is going on. If you are a fan of fantasy, or Drizzt, this books is a must!	2002-02-10
US	47066930	R2E3X1JDEMX9WG	0880389117	342367122	Flint the King (Dragonlance: Preludes Volume 5)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Good and moving tale	Flint the King is one of the better dragonlance books in the genre. I was a little hesitant when i first picked up this book, thinking that it would be boring the whole way through. But i was severely wrong in that thinking. Not only was the book action packed, funny, emotional, but it had a great story line that keeps you hooked the whole way through.<br />When Flint goes to the lair of the mountain dwarves to investigate a murder, as well as discover what is happening to his town, he ends up getting captured. He is setenced to death, but ends up getting saved by some gully dwarves, along with a rather accentric mountain dwarf.<br />Flint must make the smelly, dirty, dumb gully dwarves into an army that can help him save his village from a terror that could wipe the town off of the map. Along with the female mountain dwarf, Flint tries desperately to save not only his life, but the life of all his family and friends.<br />This book is filled with just the right amount of action, suspense, and emotion, carrying you through the book until the last page flips by. Yes Flint is romantic in this book, but it does nothing to take away from the character that was established by Wies and Hickman back in the day. This book is definately up to the wonderful duo's standard, and will prove to be a great read.	2002-02-09
US	47066930	R10V8O5X11101I	0553286390	591086816	Dragon Wing (The Death Gate Cycle, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First book in an amazing series.	Dragon Wing is the first book of the DeathGate Cycle, and possibly one of the best series books on the market today. Wies and Hickman team up again to write this amazing book, full of action, adventure, intrigue, death, destruction. The main character in this book, a man named Haplo, is sent by his master to survey a world in which his master hopes to one day conquer. On this world, Haplo must face an evil mage, and must team up with a deadly assassin in order to enevitably save the world.The plot and action in this book are deeper than i could ever hope to explain, the book will keep you hooked from cover to cover.<br /> This book is definately one of the best books on the market today. Wies and Hickman show that they dont have to stay in the Dragonlance realm to write an exciting, and emotional book. If you are a fan of Wies and Hickman, or just a fan of fantasy itself, this book, and the rest in the series are a must.	2002-02-09
US	47066930	R37CFA8DUDJ2Y7	0786918055	577085969	War of the Twins (Dragonlance Legends, Vol. 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Raistlin's ambition and Caramon's love	War of Twins, the second installment to the legends trilogy, sheds more light on the twins that should make any dragonlance reader covet this book. We see Raistlin and Caramon in a light that we have never seen before. They must face trials that they have never thought possible, and their love for each other will be stretched to the limits.<br />The character of Caramon is one of the majore players in this book. He must lead Raistlin's army, as they head for skullcap, in search of the portal leading to the abyss. But Caramon has changed since his subservient ways in the chronicles trilogy. He isnt as dumb as people make him out to be, he just needs time to think things through, and when he does, not even his brother can pursuade him. Does Caramon do what his brother says, following his loves, or does he defy him, doing what is in his heart? <br />Raistlin is aslo battling in this book. Not against draconians, or dragons...but against love. He has fallen in love with the beautiful dark haired woman, but he can't let his feelings show. For Raistlin, there is magic and no other love. But as his feelings get clouded, strange things happen.<br />Tasslehoff isnt in this book as much as the previous ones, but when he is, he fills this serious book with just the right amount of humor. When i say serious, i mean it, this book is definately is written to make you see the pains and struggles of the twins, the whole trilogy shows you just what a hard life they have, and just what Caramon and Raistlin are willing to sacrifice to get what they desire.<br />This book, along with the rest in the series are a must read. If you want to know more about the twins, including their ambitions, and pains, read this book. It definately shines a new light on the life of the popular twins.	2002-02-08
US	47066930	RMGY3EDQV00M7	088038722X	964722337	Darkness and Light (Dragonlance,  Preludes, Vol. 1) (v. 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good and funny adventure	Before the war of the lance, when the companions split up, after a promise to meet in 5 years time, Sturm decides to head north to look for signs of his father. Kitiara decides to come along, and together they head north towards solomnia. But along the way they meet a rag-tag group of gnomes, all of whom man a very gnomish invention, a flying machine. <br />Sturm and Kitiara end up joining the gnomes on the flying ship, but something goes wrong and they end up flying all the way to the red moon lunitari. One the moon they meet a dragon, some weird talking trees, and an evil marrooned human..can they do to get home? their ship is broken!<br />This books bring together the adventure of sturm and kitiara in the years preceeding the war of the lance. They face many things during this book, i will not go about telling you what all the face, you will have to read and find out, but this book is a must needed addition to any dragonlance collection.<br />I am not the biggest fan of kitiara, but in this book she wasnt half bad, maybe it was because she wasnt hanging over every single guy that she saw, but this book definately shows you the relationship between sturm and kitiara, and brings to life the pain that kit might have felt, after she realized that she killed sturm (dragons of winter night). They face many things on their journey, as well as something that they never expected...love.<br />Kitiara goes her way, and sturm goes his. But this book is definately a good read. full of adventure, and humor (thanks to the gnomes) as well as a precurser to the troubles that a brewing on krynn, troubles that will eventually lead to the war of the lance.<br />While others have pointed out that there is a few inconsitencies in this book, like the parts with the dragon, and the draconions, who sturm was supposedly not supposed to know about until &quot;dragons of autumn twilight&quot; this is still a good read, and will definately keep you interested from cover to cover.	2002-01-13
US	47066930	RYQU85AA5URL	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	AMAZING!	I have been hooked on the Wheel of Time experience ever since i picked up the first book, and couldnt put it down until i was done. I look forward to every single book as it comes out, and the 9th book of the series was no exception. This book was amazing and full of Robert Jordan's best. I will admit that the few books before this have been a little long, with nothing much happening in them, but that doesnt take away from their value, they are all great. As i read this book, i will pulled into Jordan's mind, and i could see everything that was happening, many times i forgot that i was even reading, that is how deep this book pulled me in. This book is a must! and with a suprise ending that will leave your breathless! buy it!	2002-01-07
US	47066930	R1CR3POVWV28AY	0312862199	534145800	The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Full of interesting information.	When i bought this book, it took me awhile to get into it, but once i started reading it more frequently, i wasnt dissapointed. It goes into great detail explaining anything and everything that you could think of in the Wheel of Time universe. I definately recommend this book if you are a fan of Robert Jordan's extremely popular books. It tells you the past of all the forsaken, and goes into great detail about all of the major and minor lords/ladies and lands in which they control. Definately a must for any WoT fan!	2002-01-07
US	47066930	R1H74AOFGTTB0A	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great beginning to a wonderful universe	When you open the cover this book, you are immediatly pulled into the world of Wheel of Time, a ride soo intense that it will not let you out until you finish that last page, and close the now bent cover and finally are allowed to shut your eyes. This books is absolutely amazing. It is a brilliant start to the wonderful Wheel of Time series. What starts with what seems to be a little problem, blows up into an adventure of mass proportions that you will love. The first book of this series is amazing, and they only get better as you go on. The books are long and involved, but that does nothing to take away from wonderful read. Buy this book, you will NOT be dissapointed.	2002-01-07
US	47066930	R1FNOZL936U65F	0425165108	559930774	Americans at War	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful history book	I actually bought this book for one of my college courses. I was assigned to read certain sections, but i read this book from the front cover to the back. Ambrose is one of the best history writers on that planet, and this book is no exception to his wonderful accounts of historical events that happened during WW2. Ambrose has a way of making history fun to read about, throwing in funny quirks and other humorous but meaningful stories to make the read much more enjoyable. This book accounts many of the major campaigns as they happened in the war, but it also brings to life many of the major generals and leaders of the war, whether Patton or Monte, or Bradley, this books covers them all. The plans and operations are detailed and too the point. This is definately a Ambrose book that is worth the money if you are interested in WW2.	2002-01-07
US	47066930	R3V49KQVBWFC49	0786902604	176732663	The Second Generation (Dragonlance)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Good stories	When i first heard of this book, i thought it was a novel. But when i bought it i was suprised to find that it was actually a bunch of short stories, dealing with the children of the heros of the lance. That fact didnt discourage me at all as i read the book. Most of the stories were very good, and very entertaining. They were filled with a lot of action, though some of them were emotional. This is a must read before reading Dragons of Summer Flame. It brings to life many of the characters that are big players in that book. I finished this book in a day, it was very well written, and pulls you into all of the stories. I highly recommend it to all dragonlance fans.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R3NVPUKL1K7EMX	0786915897	198766600	Dragons of Spring Dawning (Dragonlance Chronicles, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful ending!	This book was great, it brought together the perfect end to a wonderful series. The chronicles series is highly popular all around the world, and if you havent bought, and read these books, then you are missing out on a wonderful world of fantasy. Weis and Hickman make you feel for the characters, make you feel their pains and  their sorrows, their love and their happiness. This is definately a wonderful book and a must read. If you buy this book, i garauntee that you will not second guess the decision.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R464Y4NN1OF45	0786902647	395848912	Test of the Twins (Dragonlance Legends)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful ending to the series	This books was amazing. It was filled with humor, excitement, adventure, and some tragedy. It is the final book in the twins series, and what an end it was. The whole book kept me at the edge of my seat the entire time, i couldnt put this book down until i had finished it. I am sure most dragonlance fans have read this book, but if you havent, you are really missing out. This book brings to life the final struggle between the two twins, as well as their half-sister Kitiara, and even dalamar the dark elf. There is plenty of humor with Tas, full of excitement with all the characters. It is definately a good book, and a must read for all fantasy fans.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R234B3708PMHJV	0786916575	501237295	Servant of the Shard (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great	This book brings to life more of the drow society than i have ever read in any other book. This book is amazing, and a wonderful read once it gets going. The life of the drow is a life that is filled with backstabbing, and intrigue. But in the end, this book was great. It pulls you into the storyline, making you feel for all the characters, even if most of them are drow. But i recommend this book, as i recommend most books, for it was a good adventure.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R15IEXJA3XYQR8	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent!	One of the best books I have ever read. This books is full of action and adventure. It is complete with humor and other emotions that pull you into the book, making you believe that you are on the adventures with the main character. This is an excellent book, and a start to an excellent story. I have read all 9 books so far, and this one is one that sticks in my mind the best. It is a great book, and a must read for anyone who is interested in fantasy.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R237RADIM7EB77	0786915889	208021139	The Dark Elf Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Homeland / Exile / Sojourn)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Absolutely wonderful!	These three books are some of the best books in the fantasy word today, in my opinion that is. This trilogy is full of action and adventure, bringing to life one of the greatest heros of all time, Drizzt. Drizzt is a drow elf who grows up in a city along with his kind, but his beliefs dont match those of his fellow drow. He meets friends along the way, and faces off with many enemies. Salvatore does a good job bringing to life all the pains and sorrows of the characters, and makes you cheer when Drizzt succeeds. This trilogy is great, and a must read.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R1MO0NHMV2C49V	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding!	This is the first book in the chronicles series. If you havent read these books you are missing out on a lot. What starts out to be a innocent meeting between friends, turns into a fight for the very life of everyone on Krynn. These friends must face dragons, and various other creatures on their way to save their very lives. But this book is definately a must read. Buy this booK! you will not be disapointed!	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R1RT7KG6ETTCNV	0786914041	333113678	The Spine of the World (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 2)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Pretty good	This book did have its highs and its lows. I have to admit that it took me awhile to get into this book. It wasnt because drizzt wasnt in it. It was just a slow story, and took a long time to get going. I will admit that by the end of the book that it did speed up, and it did end up to be a good read. But i almost put it down in the middle of the book, not really enjoying it at all. But it does bring to life the sorrows of Wulfgar, and shows you the life he must live after escaping his horrors in the abyss. It is slow, but a good read, and a must read for anyone into the Drizzt collection.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R1R2TN6BNED1PB	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent!	One of the best books I have ever read. This books is full of action and adventure. It is complete with humor and other emotions that pull you into the book, making you believe that you are on the adventures with the main character. This is an excellent book, and a start to an excellent story. I have read all 9 books so far, and this one is one that sticks in my mind the best. It is a great book, and a must read for anyone who is interested in fantasy.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	RFN96D9AXBI6Z	0786918004	593065494	Legacy of the Drow Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms(r) Omnibus)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amazing!	This book was absolutely amazing. it is actually 4 books in one, which makes it even better. All of the books are entertaining and full of action and adventure. As with all of Salvatore's books, this one pulls you into the pages, making you believe that you are actually with all of the characters. Drizzt and friends really shine in these books, making it a fun and exciting read.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R30833OK4QSK52	0786916095	623319343	2: Dragons of Winter Night (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume II)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Still amazing!	Weis and Hickman do a wonderful job in bringing to life some of the greatest fantasy characters of all time. Once you start this book, you will not be able to put it down until you finish it. It is highly entertaining filled with the perfect amount of humor, action, suspense, and sadness. I cant say enough about the chronicles series, it is one of my favorite trilogies in all the books that i have ever read. Once i started this series, i couldnt put it down. The first book is amazing, and this one is no exception. You will love the characters, and you will cry when they cry, laugh when they laugh, that is how good it is. Buy it, you will not regret it.	2002-01-03
US	47066930	R1N6JMTE8CDD3Q	1561385344	191933403	Encyclopedia Of Fantasy And Science Fiction Art Techniques: A Comprehensive A-z Directory Of Techniques, With An Inspirational Gallery Of Finished Works	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Terrible	I bought this book, hoping that it could help me with my drawing techniques. But when i got it, i was sorely disapointed about the content of this book. All it showed were many poor pictures, much of which were sci-fi NOT fantasy. I didnt learn a single thing from this book, other that not to trust a book by its cover.	2002-01-02
US	47066930	R3V3MR157ZMKRK	1560761164	149182072	Dark Heart: The Meetings Sextet, Volume III	Books	2	0	1	N	N	My opinion	I have to say that this book was well written, and did have its exciting points. I have never really been a Kitiara fan from the start. When I read the chronicles I never really liked reading about here, but I am on a mission to read all of the dragonlance books. I have to say that every book I read about Kitiara, whether it is \\"steel and stone\\", or this book...my opinion of Kitiara drops very low. I know she is an \\"evil\\" person, but her character is a disgrace to all women, and she makes me sick when I read about her. Don't get me wrong, the book is written well, and does have its points, but Kitiara is a sickening character, and whenever I read about her I want to close the book.	2002-01-01
US	47066930	R10RPN86ZLSM2X	0880387548	323839110	2: KENDERMORE (Dragonlance: Preludes)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Funny book	I thought this book was very funny. i liked it a lot. almost every chapter has some comedy in it. whether it is with kender, or gully dwarves, it was funny. But Mary also did a good job in the way she put the book together, it was a good read, and it kept me hooked until i had finished it. I recommend this book to anyone who is a kender fan. It is highly funny, and filled with enough &quot;action&quot; to keep the most diehard dragonlance readers hooked.	2001-12-22
US	47066930	R3B2U3Y4TSYVMA	156076340X	606503648	006: The Companions: The Meetings Sextet, Volume VI	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good book..yet rushed.	As i read this book, i was pulled into it like i am with most books. I couldnt really put it down, though it did have slow parts, and scenes that seemed to have been just cut from the final printing..maybe that is just me,  but i felt that things should have been explained a lot better than they were. But it was altogether a good book, and i did enjoy reading it. The only thing that i didnt like about it, was that the climax of the book..that last 20 pages or so, seemed to go by to quickly, with major gaps in the storyline. Tina did a good job in writing the book, i would say that her only flaws were leaving out a little too much info here and there.. But i do recommend it to any dragonlance fan.	2001-12-20
US	47066930	R9CKHFA1DQIA6	1560763396	546055270	5: Steel and Stone: The Meetings Sextet, Volume V	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Kit is a (...)	I have to admit that this book did have its high moments. But it was overall lacking the drama and intrigue that should have gone along with Tanis and Kit's first meeting. I didnt like the way that Kit acted throughout the story. There was a little action here and there, but the story was not as good as it could have been. It really made me not like Kit. I mean i know she is a fighter, and she doesnt care about anything cut her sword. But the way she acts in this story is totally degrading to her character, read it if you must, but this book could be easily skipped.	2001-12-17
US	47066930	R2GJ62QVKYUV7T	1560763361	456089537	The Oath and the Measure: The Meetings Sextet, Volume Four	Books	4	1	1	N	N	It got better...	I have to say that this book did start out a little slow, and didnt really get going until quite a ways into the book, but it did get better as the book went on. I found it to be a good read once it got going, and i do recommend it to any dragonlance fan who wants to learn a little more about Sturm's past. Though i can't say that it is the best book in the series, bit is written pretty well, and the characters are written pretty well. Recommend it if you plan on reading the whole series.	2001-12-05
US	47066930	R1DXRYVWMFJOI9	1560761156	612227825	002: Wanderlust: The Meetings Sextet, Volume II	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Well written and entertaining.	I found this book to be a very good read. Being and avid fantasy reader, i try to explore a wide variety of books in the genre. So far, the best world i have found, is the world of Dragonlance. The books are to the point, and without the common &quot;fillers&quot; like a lot of authors are using now days. By this, i mean the chapters upon chapters were nothing happens to move the story forward. I have yet to find a dragonlance book that has done this. they are usually all full of excitement, humor, and intrigue. This book is no exception. I found it very funny, thanks to Tas, and full of action and adventure. It also shows the growth between Tanis and Flint, showing you their life before the chronicles series. All in all, i recommend this book if you love fantasy. Buy it, Read it, Love it.	2001-10-05
US	47066930	R2XGWRA2O4YQ7J	0786913886	691317033	The Silent Blade (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Drizzt and friends still going strong!	R.A. Salvatore is a very talented and accomplished writer. I have enjoyed most of his books, espeacially the books with our favorite goodly drow fighter, Drizzt. This books brings to play the falling of Wulfgar, the powerful assassin Artemis. And of course Drizzt, Bruener, Cattie-brie, and others. It was a very good read, with a lot of action, and suspense. I picked up the book and i could hardly put it down until i had finished it. I highly recommend this book. Buy it, Read it, Love it.	2001-10-05
US	47066930	R1TD5O9JHX35GI	0880387769	837301549	The Brothers Majere (Dragonlance:  Preludes, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Read	A short time after Raistlin takes his test, He and Caramon are in desperate need of money, and after a botched assassination attempt, they head to a city that seems to be having some trouble. <br />What starts out as what seems to be a small problem concerning a town's wierd fasination with cats, leads to a problem of god-like proportions. How can Caramon and Raistlin hope to defeat such an evil? With the help of a rather irritating kender.<br />Earwig Lockpicker comes along with the twins, (even after the twins try to leave him behind more than once) and plays a major role in the direction of the story. While some writers totally butcher the original Caramon and Raistlin (doing no justice to the Cam and Raist written by Wies and Hickman), Kevin Stein does a masterful job in portraying the twins how they should be, with just the right amount of love and animosity between the two.	2001-09-24
US	47066930	R2I6SEQBOSOV69	1560760699	975024511	1: Kindred Spirits: The Meetings Sextet, Volume I	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great	I found this book very entertaining. Probably one of the more better books in the dragonlance sage, other than the ones written by W&amp;H. It was a good read, complete with humor, intrigue, and action. The book went into the life of Flint Fireforge before meeting the half-elf, Tanis. Upon meeting, the two grew to be quick friends. But when Tanis is accused of murder, Flint has to help him get clear. I felt that the book was good. While it didnt have the most action in he world, it was still a nice read. The only thing i didnt like in this book was the relationship between Tanis and Laurana. But that is another story. Anyway, i recommend it. Buy it, Read it, Love it.	2001-09-24
US	47066930	R3LZ0RMPBU6U10	0786905239	422037845	Dragons of Summer Flame (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume 4)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A "nice" ending to the 4th age	I would first like to start out by saying, that is book is sad. If you have followed the dragonlance saga from the meetings, to preludes, to the chronicles, and through the twins series. I highly doubt that you will find this book has a happy ending. <br />Don't get me wrong, the book is very very good. It is full of Wies and Hickman's best. Complete with Tas, Tanis, Caramon, but it mostly centers on the second Generation (ie. Palin, Steel..etc) <br />This book is pretty long compared to the ones before it, but the action and adventure keep you going pretty much throughout the whole book. I dont think any ending to an age will be happy, but this one definately shows you the true life of the people on Krynn, and the forces they must face to defeat an enemy unlike ever before. <br />This book is definately a must to any dragonlance fan, and is the last Wies and Hickman book written until the new series comes out. But if you pick the new series and dont know what is going on, read this book, as well as the Jean Rabe trilogy, even though most people HATE those, and you will be on the right track.	2001-09-24
US	47066930	R31C7SZ6ELQD0X	0880384549	590053230	The Magic of Krynn (DragonLance Tales, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the better ones.	I found this book quite good. It is filled with a compilation of short stories written by come of the more well known Dragonlance authors. All of them are pretty good, like Palin's test, depicted on the cover. This is a must read for anyone into the dragonlance saga.	2001-09-24
US	47066930	RWMGJCLBBZ4T6	0880383828	835308795	002: Kender, Gully Dwarves and Gnomes (volume 2) DragonLance Tales	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good, but not the most excellent	This book was quite a good book. I read a lot of books. My favorites are in the dragonlance world. While some of the stories in this book were boring. The remainder were well written and fun to read. This book had just the right mixture of funny stories, and more serious stories. The true demise of toede, had to be one of the funniest. I would recommend this book to anyone who truly loves dragonlance.	2001-09-24
US	47066930	R1FS528MWW7RYD	0786918047	455217726	Time of the Twins: Dragonlance Legends, Volume I	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A brother's love...	Like all of the books written by W&H it is great. Any Caramon and Raistlin fan should check this series out. It takes place directly after the chronicles series, and is full of the energy, excitement, and trauma that Wies and Hickman are great at. Plus the books have Tas in them, so you know they will be good. I highly recommend this book, and the rest of the series to any dragonlance, or fantasy book reader. It really brings Raist and Cam into a new light, seeing parts of them that you have never seen before.Including the bond that the twins really do have, and what can come between it. These books are a little confusing at first, but once you get into them, and figure out what is going on, they are a smooth and fun read. Throughout the book, Raistlin is planning something big. While I wont blow it here, it is definately a plan of mass proportions. Caramon and a dark haired cleric are also part of this plan. But will Raistlin's ambitions finally open Caramon's eyes? Read and find out...this book and the whole series is a definate must!	2001-09-24
US	47066930	R1NPPNUMSQS7E	0786916087	310345712	The Chaos Curse (Forgotten Realms:  The Cleric Quintet, Book 5)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Final book in a great saga	The Chaos curse is the final book in a 5 book series, all of which are great. Cadderly and friends must face an evil in which they never thought they would have to face. They must fight together, facing new enemies, as well as old. This is a great series, and some of these characters make an appearence in Salvatore's other books containing Drizzt. I recommend these books to anyone into fantasy, or if you are just a fan of Salvatore, this book, as well as the others in the series, are a must! The ending of this book is a little sad, so be forewarned, but if you read the later books containing Drizzt, everything comes out to be alright.	2000-12-15
