US	47099824	R2XV27EZ8O3MUE	0687197066	898919481	Isaiah & wisdom	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Is Isaiah also among the wise?	In five well-balanced chapters, the author opens up the important question about the extent to which the prophet Isaiah-and thus the book that bears his name-was influenced by the strain of Israelite reflection that scholars call 'wisdom'. In setting forth his apology and objectives, Whedbee recognizes the danger of explaining the prophets systematically based upon a narrow selection of texts. For some time, scholars drove a deep wedge between the 'prophet's word' and the 'sage's counsel'.<br /><br />A number of changes in the prevailing scholarly winds have made a study like Whedbee's possible. The sage is now viewed more positively as a guardian of communal integrity than was the case in a previous generation. Also the complex-rather than simple-relationship between traditional wisdom and the prophetic task has become more evident. Whedbee proposes to sort out traditional versus technical wisdom as it appears in Isaiah, presuming that the latter emerges out of the former. Also, he anticipates showing his reader how Isaiah processes and adapts wisdom traditions as he inherits and employs them.<br /><br />Having sketched out a refreshingly loose-fitting-not to say baggy-profile for wisdom and its origins, forms, and intentionalities, Whedbee approaches the formal matter of 'Parables, Proverbs, and Related Gattungen' in an extensive chapter two (pp. 23-79). Methodologically, he cautions against assuming the presence of wisdom influence on Isaiah wherever there is overlap with wisdom terminology. Rather, he seeks distinctive (parabolic) content for the basis of his study. Whedbee is attentive to the 'heterogonous' nature of Isaiah's argumentation, a perspective that allows him to evade the analytical trap of absolutizing genres and then dissecting speeches in order to assign each element to a distinct classification. Isaiah, Whedbee says, is 'free' to use a large number of figures of speech, some of which take a sapiential tack, because the disjunction between prophetic word and creation's witness is a modern rather than an ancient one. For the prophet, the two would have enjoyed an essential unity.<br /><br />In his third chapter ('Woe Oracles and Wisdom', pp. 80-110), Whedbee argues for a close relationship between the Hebrew Bible's 'woe' oracles and the 'ashrey' ('blessed is ...') statements. He approves Gerstenberger's discernment of a strong concern for social justice in both kinds of affirmations, provisionally accepting as well Gerstenberger's theory that the statements derive from popular wisdom settings. After surveying some of the distinctly Isaianic 'woes', Whedbee concludes that both law and wisdom emerge from a common source and thus it is not wise to distinguish too sharply between their respective influence as traditionary sources for Isaiah. Nevertheless, it would be equally unwise to overlook the instructional/sapiential nature of Isaiah's utilization of the tradition.<br /><br />In 'Counsel/Counsellor and Jerusalem Court Wisdom' (ch. four, pp. 111-148), Whedbee argues for a non-secular (in the technical sense) view of professional wisdom circles in biblical Israel and Judah. That is, these circles had their own view of the divine source of counsel and wisdom and their own tradition regarding the inherent limitations of human wisdom. Isaiah's criticism of the sages of his day used their own language ('etsah) and was not uniquely prophetic. Though he criticizes the counsellors of his day, his vision for the future includes wise counsellors, indeed a messianic figure that is cast in part in the figure of just such a counsellor. In contrast to the policies supported by the court counsellors of his day-some of which Isaiah found inimical to Yahwistic faith-the prophet rests in the divine 'counsel' which is not only inscrutable but also trustworthy in its intentions for Israel/Judah.<br /><br />A conclusion (pp. 149-153) neatly restates the outline of an argument that is both cogent and well-presented in the core ofthe book. In the thirty-four years since its publication, Whedbee's work has been criticized but in general has stood its ground admirably. Scholarship regarding the interplay between wisdom, prophecy, and law has been marked by this important work, which now finds itself somewhat in the main stream.e its publication, Whedbee's work has been criticized but in general has stood its ground admirably. Scholarship regarding the interplay between wisdom, prophecy, and law has been marked by this important work, which now finds itself somewhat in the main stream.	2005-10-14
US	47099824	R30URQ8888Y4B5	089130102X	73723270	Isaiah 24-27 and the Origin of Apocalyptic (Harvard Semitic Monographs)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	the birth of apocalyptic literature in Jerusalem's ashes	This revised doctoral dissertation is useful principally for the material it draws together into one place and for its methodology, which attempts to develop a relative chronology of the evolution of apocalyptic and then to place Isaiah 24-27 at the proper place on that scale.<br /><br />In his literature survey ('Unsettled Problems in Isaiah 24-27', pp. 1-22, Millar draws attention to the wide range of solutions that have been proposed to the section's problems of date and genre (particularly the relationship between apocalyptic and eschatological literatures).  He is attracted to P. Hanson's attempts to reconstruct a social matrix that explains the 'dawn of apocalyptic' in terms of alternate visions of what post-exilic life should be, and to arguments from background materials in Canaanite mythology and parallels in the Oracles Against the Nations and enthronement psalms.  Millar proposes a new look at these matters and at issues of the passage's structure.<br /><br />A second chapter ('The text and prosody of Isaiah 24-27) attempts an analysis of the poetic style of chs 24-27, then makes a comparison with Isaiah 51.9-11 and Ugaritic Text 5.1.1-5.  Millar finds close parallels between Isaiah 24-27 and both comparison texts, though he believes the similarities to the Deutero-Isaiah text are more compelling.<br /><br />A substantial third chapter ('The Structure of Isaiah 24-27', pp. 65-102) argues that the Isaiah Apocalypse shares four themes with Canaanite myth as this can be documented from the Ugarit material in the early 1970s: threat, war, victory, and feast.  The persistence of these motifs in the biblical material, argues Millar, justifies the assumption of an institutional-cultic matrix that renewed them regularly.  The best explanation is found not in the reconstruction of an unknown feast, but rather in the feast of tabernacles, viewed as an annual New Year's feast.  Here Millar cites Mowinckel's well-known theory of an institutional setting of the psalms, critiquing in a measured aside Westermann's consideration the 'Sitz im Leben in life' precludes such an institutional setting for the Psalms.<br /><br />Two significant moves round out the chapter. First, the author reconstructs a hypothetical celebration in which these themes-recognizable in Bible and Ugarit-might have been reenacted on an annual basis.  Then, he elaborates his view of a reuse of these themes by Second Isaiah after the exile had de-institutionalized them.<br /><br />A final chapter ('Isaiah 24-27 and the Origin of Apocalyptic', 103-120)  seats the apocalypse in Second Isaiah circles ('a close disciple of Second Isaiah') based on considerations of prosody.  This writer utilizes materials already in circulation to elevate the confrontation of historical enemies that is found in the OAN to a new level of Yahweh-confrontation of powers that are now described in the language of myth:<br /><br />'In the eyes of Second Isaiah, Yahweh was moving against elements of the created order. And yet, faithful to the prophetic stance, he was not falling back into the perspective of nature mythology. History was being periodized (Is. 42:19). Yahweh's destruction of creation was not a return to the beginning . He was ushering in a new age ... It was this radical openness toward the future which preserved both Second Isaiah and apocalyptic from the cyclical character of nature myth.  Myth was turned to the service of history.'<br /><br />The 'recrudescence of myth' occurs under the influence of Second Isaiah as the writer of the apocalypse applies the ancient Holy War tradition of the song of deliverance to Zion's imminent deliverance from the inconcinnities of history.  The singing/shouting of the apocalypse corresponds to the `new song' of Second Isaiah; both herald the dawning of a new age.<br /><br />It is a pity that Millar's work has gone out of print, for the fourth chapter is one of the clearest statements of the birth of apocalyptic in the exilic period that is available.  Millar does not go as far as P. Hanson in discerning the parties engaged in intramural squabbles during the period in question.  Though I honor Hanson's courage in pushing the evidence the farthest conclusions it can be made to support, my tastes run more in Millar-ian directions.  I find his general reconstruction of the  Isaiah Apocalypse as a history-defying and regenerative statement from out of Jerusalem's ashes attractive and compelling.exilic period that is available.  Millar does not go as far as P. Hanson in discerning the parties engaged in intramural squabbles during the period in question.  Though I honor Hanson's courage in pushing the evidence the farthest conclusions it can be made to support, my tastes run more in Millar-ian directions.  I find his general reconstruction of the  Isaiah Apocalypse as a history-defying and regenerative statement from out of Jerusalem's ashes attractive and compelling.	2005-10-06
US	47099824	RQPE02UCGDNTI	0785274537	538062167	American by Choice: The Remarkable Fulfillment of an Immigrant's Dreams	Books	4	2	2	N	N	upward mobility	Rags to riches tales are an American phenomenon.  From inside the system, it is easy to think that a lot of hard work, a good idea, and a little luck are all it takes for the down-and-out to pull themselves up any number of ladders, and that this is obvious everywhere.  You only have to live beyond these shores for a little while to realize that this scenario is a quintessential chunk of Americana.  Class, rigid economies, and 7th-grade decisions for a trade or university are strong brakes on the possibilities of moving up or even, for that matter, sideways.<br /><br />Once upon a time, Sam Moore wasn't called that.  Salim Ziady-before a South Carolina judge in an intimidating black robe at a naturalization hearing advised him 'when in Rome to do like the Romans'-emigrated from his native Lebanon as a young man and found a niche selling Bibles and books door-to-door in this country's Southeast.  It was not so much a helping hand as a wide open door that enamored him with his adopted country, a love he communicates with vigor in this endearing autobiography.<br /><br />It's easy to approach such a work with a jaundiced eye.  Autobiography does not promise transparency and the rhetoric of 'I made it, so you can too' goes down like cold oatmeal to those whose tenacity has not been similarly rewarded.  Yet a palpable authenticity underscores the story told on these pages.<br /><br />Moore recently retired as the CEO of Nashville's Thomas Nelson Publishers, having taken that company on its own rags-to-riches trajectory as a formidable competitor in the competitive publishing arena (He continues as Nelson's Chairman.)<br /><br />This reviewer-unconnected to Thomas Nelson Publishers-has known Moore's common touch and listened to the anecdotes of individuals like the receptionist in the company's Nashville headquarters, who adores the man.  Men and women of integrity are still to be found, this book's gentle optimism reminds us, even if it does not fall to most of them to write their extraordinary story on pages like these.n pages like these.	2005-09-22
US	47099824	R23PDLAX8Q7VKU	076457681X	695370256	NASCAR For Dummies	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Turn left and hit the gas	My boss once jokingly told that's what NASCAR is about: turn left and hit the gas.<br /><br />Then I went to the Alllstate 400 at the Brickyard and now I've read Mark Martin's NASCAR FOR DUMMIES.  It's looking a little more complicated than fast left turns.<br /><br />The author's enthusiasm for the sport of NASCAR racing is contagious.  As the driver of the Viagra-sponsored car #6 in the Nextel Cup series, he ought to know what he's talking about from the inside out and about 188 mph.<br /><br />Chapter 1 ('NASCAR Racing-the best sport around', pp. 9-24) tells you how men (well, mostly men) driving cars that look vaguely like your father's Taurus ended up racing them around oval tracks in front of millions of spectators and television viewers and why you couldn't possibly not be excited about this.  Like most professional sports, NASCAR has acquired corporate sponsors.  It is arguably the most logo-plastered sport in the world, a fact that Martin explores in 'The Big Business of NASCAR' (ch. 2, pp. 25-34).  Martin convinces you that that's a good thing, and before you know it, you know the primary car sponsors as well as the drivers and their car numbers.<br /><br />The rest of the book takes you from zero to sixty in a fairly easy stretch of reading.  If, like me, you started this book after attending a race or two and just getting at toe-hold on the sport, you won't end up an expert.  But you'll be in good shape to understand the basics of every major area of the sport and to learn more as your exposure grows.<br /><br />Mark Martin is not a great writer, but you don't buy the Dummies series for great writing.  You buy Tolstoy if you want great writing.  What Martin effectively does is lets you know that there's a whole lot more to NASCAR racing than you thought when you got yourself into this, but that you can learn a fair chunk of it pretty quickly.  It's also organized as a handy reference book for when you need to go back to look up a topic you breezed over a little quickly on the first go-around.<br /><br />I bought this book because there's a strong NASCAR culture in the company I joined.  My boss sponsors the 18, driven by Bobby Labonte.  See, I knew how to say that right.  You can too.  Buy the book.eezed over a little quickly on the first go-around. <br /> <br />I bought this book because there's a strong NASCAR culture in the company I joined.  My boss sponsors the 18, driven by Bobby Labonte.  See, I knew how to say that right.  You can too.  Buy the book.	2005-09-17
US	47099824	R3L8S59D88MDZM	0195168917	53052700	The Next Christendom: The Coming of Global Christianity	Books	5	136	140	N	Y	a world far different from the one we thought we knew	In a memorable passage from the movie APOLLO THIRTEEN, a military man in the tense Houston control room shares with a political figure his premonition that the tragedy unfolding before them will be *the* catastrophic moment for the space program.  Mission control flight chief Gene Kranz overhears their conversation and addresses it: 'With all due respect, gentleman, I believe this will be our finest hour.'  The scene could stand in for the hand-wringing that often accompanies the apparent demise of the Western church when it comes to prognosticating on its fate over against the perceived adversaries of secularism and post-modernism.  Philip Jenkins reminds us that, when viewed through a wide-screen lens, the immediacy of threat often yields to a broad panorama of opportunity.<br /><br />Over against the fear of resurgent religion that shows its face among our cultural elites, Philip Jenkins sketches the rise of 'global Christianity' in predominantly positive terms.  The Penn State University scholar of religion has noticed long before most of us that the face of Christendom is already brown, southern, and confident.  He helps us to work through the implications of this even as he persuades us that the hegemony of Euro-American Christianity is a thing of the past and that-unless we pay attention-we who are part of it are likely to be, as the old song says, the last to know.<br /><br />In the first of ten compact chapters ('The Christian Revolution', pp. 1-14), Jenkins starts out with a bang.  Professional analysts of global trends have missed out on perhaps the biggest one, a fact that the title of Jenkins' opening chapter provocatively suggests.  Religious revolutions are not, as Western intellectuals too often suppose, mere matters of the heart.  They bring with them profoundly this-worldly repercussions like crusades, wars, and what Samuel Huntington has famously termed 'the clash of civilizations'.  They can also renew societies.  Jenkins informs us that a 'Christian revolution' is already underway in the developing world, one that our political leaders ignore to the peril of all of us.<br /><br />The historian who can write well-researched prose for a popular readership and manage to turn large assumptions on their head is a valuable person indeed. Jenkins accomplishes just this in his second chapter ('Disciples of All Nations' pp. 15-38).  He helps us to see that Christianity is not best understood as a western religion.  Its African, Middle Eastern, and Asian successes were large and entrenched centuries before it came to be perceived by some as the faith of white men.  Even popular myth of Christian crusades dispossessing Muslims of their ancestral turf is misleading in the extreme when viewed against the historical facts of Islamic expansionism and enduring Christian communities among those peoples whom we today identify reflexively as Muslim.  Europe entered late into this story.  Jenkins wonders, with one of his sources, whether the universal Christianity he describes is not best seen as the 'renewal of a non-western religion', a suggestion that gains credence when one ponders how alien Western skepticism immediately appears when placed beside the biblical documents, on the one hand, and ancient or emerging Christian movements from Africa or Asia, on the other.<br /><br />If Western mythology about the missionary enterprise(s) is to be believed, it is the power of kings, companies, and missionaries that enforced a European Christian faith upon the reluctant peoples of the Two-Thirds World.  Jenkins does not believe it, however, arguing that even when these institutions are given their due, Christianity has become an indigenous brushfire in many of the regions under review ('Missionaries and Prophets', pp. 39-53).  Indeed, Christian faith of one variety or another-and sometimes several at once-appears to have thrived since the retreat of colonial powers.  A guilty missionary conscience would appear to be a neurosis suffered largely in the West.<br /><br />When the demise of European empires brought forward the moment for non-Western churches to stand alone, they had little trouble doing so (Ch. 3, 'Standing Alone, pp. 55-78).  Indeed, the European retraction coincided with several significant Christian advances that affected both the European-founded churches and newer autochthonous movements.  Academic interest in the latter often overshadows the at least as remarkable health of Roman Catholic, Anglican, and other traditional churches.  Jenkins observes parallels between the developments he surveys in the 'South' and those that characterized a similar time of awakening, urbanization, and religious effervescence in the industrializing North.<br /><br />Jenkins' fifth chapter ('The Rise of the New Christianity', pp. 79-105) produces some plausible and startling speculations based upon demographic trends extrapolated out from evidence that is available today.  Population growth and contraction look poised to reduce European populations radically while a boom in many southern states continues apace.  When turning to religious indicators, all of them suggest that the surge in southern Christianity has barely begun.  The picture becomes even more interestingly when population mobility is factored into the equation.  Immigration to Europe may well establish a renewed Christian presence on that continent.  America looks set to become even more of a Christian nation than it is today, again due to immigration.<br /><br />In 'Coming to Terms' (ch. 6, pp. 107-139), Jenkins surveys how churches in the Two-Thirds world `inculturate' the gospel in their cultural contexts.  Though the results are sometimes alarming to Western Christians, Jenkins' view is rather more sanguine, claiming that most of these adaptations are well within the parameters of recognizably Christian faith.  As demographic changes favor the Southern churches, their patterns of life and worship-often viscerally supernatural in their orientation-are bound to become the dominant ones in a new Christendom.<br /><br />Jenkins' seventh chapter prognosticates about the varying models of church and state that can be expected as important southern countries become demographically Christian ('God and the World', pp.  141-162).  The predictions are not all reassuring to heirs of a strong tradition of separation between the two.  Even more unsettling is the possibility of a secular north looking down its nose at-and perhaps coming to blows with-a fervently religious south.  In the limited but important realm of ecclesiastical politics, events since the 2002 publication of the book make Jenkins look prescient, a virtue he takes scholarly care to disown.  Developments in the American political landscape make one wonder whether this country might become divided in two along the same lines rather than ease into alignment with its secular northern compeers.  The sight of sophisticated American Episcopalians separating from local oversight, calling themselves 'Anglicans', and placing themselves under the pastoral care of African bishops may be the robin that calls this particular Spring.<br /><br />Jenkins' book is highly quotable and for this reason often brandished as a triumphalist Christian tract.  That this is a misreading of his work is nowhere more obvious than in his prediction of continued and severe Muslim-Christian conflict ('The Next Crusade', 163-190) in those regions where both Islam and Christianity are experiencing a resurgence.  Jenkins acknowledges that a world in which powerful adversaries take religion far more seriously than does today's sophisticated North should keep strategic planners up at night.  Simple parents imagining the world in which their children will come of age might also join this insomniac corps.<br /><br />What effect will southern Christianity have on northern churches and culture?  This is Jenkins' question in 'Coming Home' (pp. 191-209).  Events since the late90s have given the author some hard facts to work with.  The southern churches are almost all theologically and culturally more conservative than their northern partners.  But are they so distinct so as to be incapable of re-evangelizing secularized Europe and the USA?  Maybe not.  Stay tuned.<br /><br />Jenkins takes up his final opportunity ('Seeing Christianity Again for the First Time', pp. 211-220) in the first person plural, for the first time plainly identifying himself as a Christian social scientist who cares deeply about the 'we' of Christian faith.  Dispassionate analysis is exchanged for what becomes almost an indictment of northern Christian myopia.  From the angle which Jenkins permits us to view the world of, say 2050 A.D., the persecution and poverty of which so much are made in the New Testament literature is also the context of the majority of today's Christians (not to mention those who await their moment a half-century hence).<br /><br />As a Christian reviewer whose work takes him to those corners of the world (or are they its centers?) that Jenkins surveys, I find in Jenkins' work the ring of truth.  Many Christians exult in the statistics of Christian resurgence that crowd the pages of this book and allow its title to sound something other than arrogant.  In my judgment, they have misread Jenkins.  There is more challenge here than pom-poms for waving by those of us whose historical circumstances make it comfortable to cheer on impoverished brethren who remain-by and large-at a safe distance.<br /><br />This is not an optimistic book, though it is profoundly hopeful.  It is perhaps among the two or three that Western Christians ought first to read in this decade, as we hope for a revision of this fine work in the next.  We live on the cusp of extraordinary Christian advance, indeed it is already upon us.  In the light of these demographic trends, however, the ancient voice of Tertullian sounds ever more pertinent to the world that is already taking shape, a world that Jenkins urges us to see from an entirely fresh angle.  'The blood of the martyrs', that church father still soberly reminds us, 'is the seed of the church.'in their orientation-are bound to become the dominant ones in a new Christendom.<br /><br />Jenkins' seventh chapter prognosticates about the varying models of church and state that can be expected as important southern countries become demographically Christian ('God and the World', pp.  141-162).  The predictions are not all reassuring to heirs of a strong tradition of separation between the two.  Even more unsettling is the possibility of a secular north looking down its nose at-and perhaps coming to blows with-a fervently religious south.  In the limited but important realm of ecclesiastical politics, events since the 2002 publication of the book make Jenkins look prescient, a virtue he takes scholarly care to disown.  Developments in the American political landscape make one wonder whether this country might become divided in two along the same lines rather than ease into alignment with its secular northern compeers.  The sight of sophisticated American Episcopalians separating from local oversight, calling themselves 'Anglicans', and placing themselves under the pastoral care of African bishops may be the robin that calls this particular Spring.<br /><br />Jenkins' book is highly quotable and for this reason often brandished as a triumphalist Christian tract.  That this is a misreading of his work is nowhere more obvious than in his prediction of continued and severe Muslim-Christian conflict ('The Next Crusade', 163-190) in those regions where both Islam and Christianity are experiencing a resurgence.  Jenkins acknowledges that a world in which powerful adversaries take religion far more seriously than does today's sophisticated North should keep strategic planners up at night.  Simple parents imagining the world in which their children will come of age might also join this insomniac corps.<br /><br />What effect will southern Christianity have on northern churches and culture?  This is Jenkins' question in 'Coming Home' (pp. 191-209).  Events since the late90s have given the author some hard facts to work with.  The southern churches are almost all theologically and culturally more conservative than their northern partners.  But are they so distinct so as to be incapable of re-evangelizing secularized Europe and the USA?  Maybe not.  Stay tuned.<br /><br />Jenkins takes up his final opportunity ('Seeing Christianity Again for the First Time', pp. 211-220) in the first person plural, for the first time plainly identifying himself as a Christian social scientist who cares deeply about the 'we' of Christian faith.  Dispassionate analysis is exchanged for what becomes almost an indictment of northern Christian myopia.  From the angle which Jenkins permits us to view the world of, say 2050 A.D., the persecution and poverty of which so much are made in the New Testament literature is also the context of the majority of today's Christians (not to mention those who await their moment a half-century hence).<br /><br />As a Christian reviewer whose work takes him to those corners of the world (or are they its centers?) that Jenkins surveys, I find in Jenkins' work the ring of truth.  Many Christians exult in the statistics of Christian resurgence that crowd the pages of this book and allow its title to sound something other than arrogant.  In my judgment, they have misread Jenkins.  There is more challenge here than pom-poms for waving by those of us whose historical circumstances make it comfortable to cheer on impoverished brethren who remain-by and large-at a safe distance.<br /><br />This is not an optimistic book, though it is profoundly hopeful.  It is perhaps among the two or three that Western Christians ought first to read in this decade, as we hope for a revision of this fine work in the next.  We live on the cusp of extraordinary Christian advance, indeed it is already upon us.  In the light of these demographic trends, however, the ancient voice of Tertullian sounds ever more pertinent to the world that is alreadytaking shape, a world that Jenkins urges us to see from an entirely fresh angle.  'The blood of the martyrs', that church father still soberly reminds us, 'is the seed of the church.'	2005-09-16
US	47099824	RFWNGEB3ODTSY	0800632249	940425112	A Biblical Theology of Exile (Overtures to Biblical Theology)	Books	5	31	35	N	Y	So are we exiles then?	Building upon his The Religion of the Landless: The Social Context of the Babylonian Exile (Meyer Stone, 1989), the author has produced a thoughtful work on a central biblical concept that is both historical and theological. Works on biblical theology are almost compelled to begin with an apology for the method employed.  Smith-Christopher does not fail to do so ('Biblical Theology: On Matters of Methodology', 1-26), signalling in his comment upon post-modern metaphysical critiques that he does not intend to allow a hyper-critical or hyper-sceptical critique to claim exclusive legitimacy in the conversation.  While attempting to be critical of his own assumptions, Smith-Christopher is persuaded that both history and theology can be carried out with integrity, especially when focussing upon a discrete theme like exile.  'Discrete', however, does not mean `miniscule', for the author is convinced that one must see the exile of Judah not only as human catastrophe-its actual happening can be defended on historical grounds-but also as an event that engendered significant new social and theological enterprises.  Smith-Christopher writes from his own participation in an historical 'peace church' and finds a promising correlation between the 'stateless existence' that was the destiny of the Jewish exiles and the kinds of church community that is praised by some Christian theologians.  As a result, he is eager to question both Constantinian and Wellhausian views of 'exile' as an intrinsically negative socio-religious matrix that lost something essential.<br /><br />Nevertheless, Smith-Christopher is wary of seeing the experience or model of exile through rose-colored glasses, wanting with E. Said not to 'belittle its mutilations'.  The author proposes reading exilic texts-it was after all a premier period for literary brilliance-'with the presumption of resistance, but not necessarily a resistance based on nationalist aspirations'.<br /><br />Contrary to recent trends, Smith-Christopher argues for the historical trauma and severity of the exile ('Violence and Exegesis: The History of Exile', 27-73).  Against C.C. Torrey and his intellectual heirs, Smith-Christopher is convinced that the exile was a very big event indeed, not an insignificant incident that well served a political agenda that has been described more recently as 'the myth of the empty land' (Barstad, 1996).  To the contrary, Smith-Christopher argues that the events were 'catastrophic and transformative for Hebrew existence'.  Here Smith-Christopher comes to his original and exceedingly useful contribution: '(T)he impact of the Babylonian exile must make far more use of nonbiblical documents, archaeological reports, and a far more imaginative use of biblical texts read in the light of what we know about refugee studies, disaster studies, postcolonialist reflections, and sociologies of trauma' (emphasis mine).<br /><br />Smith-Christopher believes that evidence for the benign role of the Persian empire vis-&agrave;-vis its dependents has been overstated, not only by the Heidelberg school and its 'Persian authorization' view of the Pentateuch's composition, but also by a number of non-aligned critics who have perhaps been too taken in by Persian propaganda, centuries hence.  Attuned to the generally unchronicled resistance of those who have no other option, he is warm to M. Root's observation that '(t)he world was at peace on the walls of Persepolis as it never was in actuality.'  Smith-Christopher executes a reading of Ezra-Nehemiah that rings true to that 'culture of permission' which represents neither `gratitude nor warmth' towards the imperial powers, but rather the barely repressed hostility of those who live by the conqueror's whim.<br /><br />Reading, say, Lamentations, Smith-Christopher finds-as Barstad does-eloquent and complex poetry.  Whereas Barstad considers this an argument for a complex society still present in 'exilic' Judah, Smith-Christopher suggests not only that such pathos-filled writing does not require much of an infrastructure, but also that it is fallacious to proceed as though the quality of the writing helps us to reconstruct history when we are not prepared to take the content (Smith-Christopher: 'subject') of the writing seriously.  This is to say nothing of an archaeological record that can be read to evidence massive destruction and dislocation at the time of the 'exile', though that record-per Smith-Christopher and, say, W. Schniedewind-is more than prepared to speak.  With regard to the various empires that held Judah under their sway, Smith-Christopher does not believe the evidence gives the moral high ground to any one of them: '(I)rrespective of the very real differences between the political and ideological regimes from before 587 BCE until, and after, 164 BCE, we must always attend to the stubborn similarities of ancient imperial designs toward power and control over wealth, territory, and human resources.  On this, there appears to have been little diversity and practice in results.'<br /><br />When Smith-Christopher adds to the literary and archaeological evidence for widespread and wrenching dislocation during the exile the shared experience of refugees in the history that lies nearer to us, he discovers a mosaic that speaks coherently of a devastation very much like that which the exilic books of the Bible present.  In the light of the probabilities as he measures them, his choice to read the pertinent texts with 'empathy' makes eminent sense.  Though Persian rule was likely relatively more amenable to Jewish life than its Assyrian or Neo-Babylonian antecedents, Nehemiah was not merely inventing a self-justifying ideological construct when he recognized that 'we are slaves in our own land' (Neh. 9.36-37).<br /><br />Smith-Christopher attempts to take seriously not only the historical indications that unsavory conditions and forced labor were characteristic of exile in the period in question, but also to attend to the 'lexicography of trauma'.  This latter dialect uses rich layers of metaphor-`bonds', 'fetters', 'release of the prisoner(s)' and the like-in a way that quite likely builds upon literal bonds, fetters, and imprisonment.  Smith-Christopher's empathetic reading of the texts reminds one of the literature emerging from the Soviet Gulag that A. Appelbaum so poignantly brings to light in Gulag: A History.  The comparison is pertinent because Smith-Christopher alleges a certain dreary sameness about history's litany of exile(s) that refugee and catastrophe studies have only recently suggested.<br /><br />Having justified the seriousness with which he intends to hear the biblical voices of exile as just what they purport to be, Smith-Christopher turns to the task in his second chapter ('Listening to Cries from Babylon: On the Exegesis of Suffering in Ezekiel and Lamentations', 75-104).  Smith-Christopher reads these books-one claiming to emerge in the Diaspora and the other from ruined Jerusalem-through the lens of `state-sponsored terrorism' as this is defined in refugee and disaster studies.  He is particularly attentive to the difference in refugee settings between the official transcript (used in communication with the authorities) and the hidden transcript.  One could, for example, reconstruct an ambience more positive than is warranted by reading the official communications afforded by Ezra-Nehemiah as a naive description of the community's situation. Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is also mined for the understanding it might bring to a reading of Ezekiel, whose 'author' claims to be negotiating the meaning of Jerusalem's recent fall.  If PTSD studies lend verisimilitude to the historical claims of the book of Ezekiel, then a realization that stereotype does not negate the possibility of a historical referent provides plausibility to the presumed traumatic background of Lamentations (and to the curses of Deut 28).  Modern refugee studiessuggest that stereotyped language is sometimes an entirely appropriate expression of grief in known cultural matrices. 'Stereotypical literature of suffering', writes Smith-Christopher, 'is not literature that can somehow be \\"decoded\\" to mean that the exiles actually lived in Babylonian comfort.'<br /><br />Smith-Christopher next turns to the Deuteronomistic History ('Shame and Transformation: On Prayer and History in the Diaspora', 105-123) in an attempt to sketch out a social history of this epic story.  Characteristically, he gives credence to the experience of the community that might have generated DtrH:<br /><br />(E)ven if 'pre-exilic' (in the sense of the period 640-587), the Deuteronomistic History is clearly the product of a seriously declining political independence and a growing awareness that the people of Israel are becoming pawns in the conflicting interests of large-scale Near Eastern empires ... Clearly, one wants to construct a history that serves a purpose under these conditions.<br /><br />Smith-Christopher finds a clue to the Historian's (or Historians') motivation in the 'post-exilic prayers' embedded in the DtrH.  The temple, often mentioned, has become `emblematic of reconstruction' (cf. Ezek 40-48) in these prayers, more as a place of prayer than of sacrifice (cf. J. Levenson).  These 'diaspora prayers par excellence' appeal to God as the only ruling authority, perhaps an indication that they emerge in the context of land- and powerlessness.  For Smith-Christopher's appraisal of the social function of shame, these prayers are an exercise not of spirituality but of politics, a corporate recognition of the consequences of a too close identification with a destructive past.  They are 'narrative repair' and a re-embracing of Mosaic ideals.<br /><br />Smith-Christopher's discussion of Second Isaiah's portrayal of the nations is satisfyingly nuanced.  He is aware that the classic 'reversal of fortunes' motif, with its consequent humiliation of the nations, is only part of the presentation.  Other images are not necessarily negative. He asks whether 'the \\"humbling of the enemy\\" (is) to be contrasted with the positive imagery, or is it an integral part of the new reality of a transformed relationship?'  Having posed the question in this illuminating manner, he opts for the latter alternative.  I am sure he is correct.<br /><br />Smith-Christopher then traces this motif of 'transformation through humbling' in the book of Jonah, a work whose vaunted universalism is not-argues the author-about forgiveness of one's enemies, but rather about the transformation of the enemy.  As evidence of a post-exilic change of mood, Jonah can be read as 'a kind of midrash on Isa 49:6 and other universalist inclinations of Second Isaiah'.<br /><br />When Smith-Christopher compares redactional levels of Torah ('\\"Purity\\" as Nonconformity: Communal Solidarity as Diaspora Ethics', 137-162), he professes to discover an evolution in communal vocabulary.  For example, Deuteronomy frequently uses ja where the presumably earlier Exodus tradition(s) utilized h[r, a shift in the direction of kinship.  Something similar appears to happen at the corporate level, where lhq cedes to hd[, presumed to be more communitarian in its implications.  This is the most speculative portion of Smith-Christopher's book and, arguably, the weakest link in an otherwise strong presentation.<br /><br />Smith-Christopher is able to execute a sympathetic reading of priestly literature and Ezra-Nehemiah by recalling the simple fact that that Ezra was a priest and by observing refugee behavior in situations of subordination.  For the author, the priestly language of purity is the 'code' in which in-community and out-community issues are articulated.  It is unclear whether Smith-Christopher believes that this observation mitigates the harshness of, say, Ezra's separation of Israelite men from their foreign wives, though it appears that this is what he is suggesting.<br /><br />Smith-Christopher is at his unconventional best in 'The Wisdom Warrior: Reading Wisdom and Daniel as Diasporic Ethics' (pp. 163-188).  In seeking a new matrix that explains the emergence of wisdom literature, the author turns several scholarly assumptions on their head.  He discovers the social context of wisdom's gritty cynicism and astute silences not in the court nor in a hypothesized school nor in the apocalyptic movement nor even in the paternal/maternal instruction of the home.  Rather, the generative context is the shrewd tactics of a diaspora minority that must find a way to survive over against an otherwise suffocating cultural monopoly.<br /><br />Smith-Christopher's thesis of a counter-cultural minority ethics that requires a proper cynicism regarding the dominant culture and the powers it claims leaves this reader, in the end, unpersuaded.  In my view, Smith-Christopher has shown that biblical wisdom is particularly useful in an involuntary cross-cultural situation where the subordinate and inferior nature of one's people is a given.  However, I believe it is the protean nature of biblical wisdom to prove useful in and adaptable to a wide range of social contexts.  That is why elaborate reconstructions of wisdom's Sitz im Leben have proven only marginally useful to exegesis.  Having said this, one is profoundly grateful to Smith-Christopher for having given us a reading of wisdom that challenges-mirabile dictu-scholarship's conventional explanations of this beguiling literature.<br /><br />Though his chapter titles do not exaggerate the fact, Smith-Christopher has in fact given us a thoughtful work of Christian theology.  His eighth and final chapter ('Toward a Diasporic Christian Theology: the theology of Tobit and Daniel revisited', pp. 189-203) thus serves to cast forward some of the lines that have already been established as he has worked his way through various Old Testament literature.<br /><br />In particular, the author moves forward from the 'justice and exemplary behavior' commended in Tobit and Daniel as the exilic pattern to the 'modern theological task' of raising up similar heroes in our time.  Smith-Christopher criticizes the Niehburian assumption that Christian morality must necessarily be worked out in the `immoral' work of laboring in the flawed social systems that are at hand.  Rather, he argues that 'engagement' can also take the form of creating alternative contexts that represent 'a revolutionary regrouping, rethinking, and restrategizing option for contemporary Christian existence.'  This is the natural consequence of a social criticism that sees exile `not merely (as) a suggested paradigm, but (as) a radically sobering diagnosis for the present reality of Christian existence in the world.'<br /><br />Smith-Christopher writes as one who is profoundly hopeful about this anti-Constantinian project, one which does not attempt to recreate biblical models but to learn from them as it creates its own counter-cultural-because diasporic-communities.  This reader is not so hopeful and somewhat more persuaded by the need for robust Christian engagement with all of culture, including the organs of state.  Still, one knows enough of emerging Christian communities around the world to understand that the challenge from the diasporic (e.g. Anabaptist) margins is critical if engagement is not to become bare compromise.<br /><br />This challenge is especially well delivered when it is as self-aware of the dangers of asking others to accomplish daring feats of self-marginalization that one himself has not undertaken; for this, see especially Smith-Christopher's brilliant final pages.  Even more so when the argument and the challenge are constructed upon skilled exegesis and competent social-scientific appraisal.  This book does its series well (Overtures to Biblical Theology) and articulates a deeply serious concern in whose absence the conversation from this time forward must be considered impoverished.ks whether 'the \\"humbling of the enemy\\" (is) to be contrasted with the positive imagery, or is it an integral part of the new reality of a transformed relationship?'  Having posed the question in this illuminating manner, he opts for the latter alternative.  I am sure he is correct.      Smith-Christopher then traces this motif of 'transformation through humbling' in the book of Jonah, a work whose vaunted universalism is not-argues the author-about forgiveness of one's enemies, but rather about the transformation of the enemy.  As evidence of a post-exilic change of mood, Jonah can be read as 'a kind of midrash on Isa 49:6 and other universalist inclinations of Second Isaiah'.    When Smith-Christopher compares redactional levels of Torah ('\\"Purity\\" as Nonconformity: Communal Solidarity as Diaspora Ethics', 137-162), he professes to discover an evolution in communal vocabulary.  For example, Deuteronomy frequently uses ja where the presumably earlier Exodus tradition(s) utilized h[r, a shift in the direction of kinship.  Something similar appears to happen at the corporate level, where lhq cedes to hd[, presumed to be more communitarian in its implications.  This is the most speculative portion of Smith-Christopher's book and, arguably, the weakest link in an otherwise strong presentation.    Smith-Christopher is able to execute a sympathetic reading of priestly literature and Ezra-Nehemiah by recalling the simple fact that that Ezra was a priest and by observing refugee behavior in situations of subordination.  For the author, the priestly language of purity is the 'code' in which in-community and out-community issues are articulated.  It is unclear whether Smith-Christopher believes that this observation mitigates the harshness of, say, Ezra's separation of Israelite men from their foreign wives, though it appears that this is what he is suggesting.    Smith-Christopher is at his unconventional best in 'The Wisdom Warrior: Reading Wisdom and Daniel as Diasporic Ethics' (pp. 163-188).  In seeking a new matrix that explains the emergence of wisdom literature, the author turns several scholarly assumptions on their head.  He discovers the social context of wisdom's gritty cynicism and astute silences not in the court nor in a hypothesized school nor in the apocalyptic movement nor even in the paternal/maternal instruction of the home.  Rather, the generative context is the shrewd tactics of a diaspora minority that must find a way to survive over against an otherwise suffocating cultural monopoly.    Smith-Christopher's thesis of a counter-cultural minority ethics that requires a proper cynicism regarding the dominant culture and the powers it claims leaves this reader, in the end, unpersuaded.  In my view, Smith-Christopher has shown that biblical wisdom is particularly useful in an involuntary cross-cultural situation where the subordinate and inferior nature of one's people is a given.  However, I believe it is the protean nature of biblical wisdom to prove useful in and adaptable to a wide range of social contexts.  That is why elaborate reconstructions of wisdom's Sitz im Leben have proven only marginally useful to exegesis.  Having said this, one is profoundly grateful to Smith-Christopher for having given us a reading of wisdom that challenges-mirabile dictu-scholarship's conventional explanations of this beguiling literature.    Though his chapter titles do not exaggerate the fact, Smith-Christopher has in fact given us a thoughtful work of Christian theology.  His eighth and final chapter ('Toward a Diasporic Christian Theology: the theology of Tobit and Daniel revisited', pp. 189-203) thus serves to cast forward some of the lines that have already been established as he has worked his way through various Old Testament literature.    In particular, the author moves forward from the 'justice and exemplary behavior' commended in Tobit and Daniel as the exilic pattern to the 'modern theological task' of raising up similar heroes in our time.  Smith-Christopher criticizes the Niehburian assumption that Christian morality must necessarily be worked out in the `immoral' work of laboring in the flawed social systems that are at hand.  Rather, he argues that 'engagement' can also take the form of creating alternative contexts that represent 'a revolutionary regrouping, rethinking, and restrategizing option for contemporary Christian existence.'  This is the natural consequence of a social criticism that sees exile `not merely (as) a suggested paradigm, but (as) a radically sobering diagnosis for the present reality of Christian existence in the world.'      Smith-Christopher writes as one who is profoundly hopeful about this anti-Constantinian project, one which does not attempt to recreate biblical models but to learn from them as it creates its own counter-cultural-because diasporic-communities.  This reader is not so hopeful and somewhat more persuaded by the need for robust Christian engagement with all of culture, including the organs of state.  Still, one knows enough of emerging Christian communities around the world to understand that the challenge from the diasporic (e.g. Anabaptist) margins is critical if engagement is not to become bare compromise.    This challenge is especially well delivered when it is as self-aware of the dangers of asking others to accomplish daring feats of self-marginalization that one himself has not undertaken; for this, see especially Smith-Christopher's brilliant final pages.  Even more so when the argument and the challenge are constructed upon skilled exegesis and competent social-scientific appraisal.  This book does its series well (Overtures to Biblical Theology) and articulates a deeply serious concern in whose absence the conversation from this time forward must be considered impoverished.	2005-09-15
US	47099824	R2X64FEI9PZ14N	1402533306	627065254	The Iliad	Books	5	9	9	N	N	the luxury of tears	What happens upon earth when the gods make war in heaven?  Many cultures have a treasured and conventional answer to this, even those deeply secularized societies that describe celestial violence in scientific language.  Homer's Iliad is one such tale-epic in its scope-that has deeply marked Western civilization down to its roots.<br /><br />If you listen to just one audiobook this year, it should be George Guidall's narration of Homer's The Iliad.<br /><br />It used to be possible to say without embarrassment that literature ennobles its reader. Guidall's resplendent performance of Homer's Iliad resuscitates that traditional notion beyond all doubt.  The man's voice is a symphony.  Only a master narrator like Guidall could make nearly seventeen hours of reading as gripping at the end-or even more so-than at the beginning.<br /><br />Homer's epic tale of 'blood on bronze' sounds as up-to-date in the first decade of the 21st century as it must have to listeners of the Homeric bards who told this tale centuries before the time of Christ.  Guidall finesses Homer's famous similes with passionate exactitude.  Fitzgerald's translation is earthy, his lexicon powerfully ample and necessarily inventive, though without ever sounding effete.<br /><br />The Iliad has given us a number of modern English phrases: 'to unleash the dogs of war', 'you're a dead man', 'to bite the dust'.<br /><br />The combination of Homer, Fitzgerald, and Guidall is a match made in, well, in Olympia, 'where Zeus views the whole wide world.'<br /><br />The humanity and heroism of Homer's mortals as the war between beached Hellenic warships and the wall of Troy is sumptuously spelled out.  Achilles' rage, Hector's nobility, Priam's dignity, the voluble humor of the two Ajaxes are qualities one feels in the bones.<br /><br />The gods come off considerably less well.  These distracted denizens of Olympia, the earth, and the sea are quarrelsome, arbitrary, petty, inconstant, and unreasonable.  The fortunes of good men and bad are slave to their whimsied narcissism.  Though the main drama of Homeric poetry is profoundly human, the gods are never far off.  Indeed, the bards provide the occasional glimpse of war in heaven where human drama, for a moment, takes a subservient role.<br /><br />Human experience of life's ephemeral fortunes was no doubt projected onto these protagonists of the great myth.  What, one wonders, do life and death feel like, under the supposed governance of such undeserving powers?  It's enough to make you a monotheist.s of good men and bad are slave to their whimsied narcissism.  Though the main drama of Homeric poetry is profoundly human, the gods are never far off.  Indeed, the bards provide the occasional glimpse of war in heaven where human drama, for a moment, takes a subservient role.<br /><br />Human experience of life's ephemeral fortunes was no doubt projected onto these protagonists of the great myth.  What, one wonders, do life and death feel like, under the supposed governance of such undeserving powers?  It's enough to make you a monotheist.	2005-09-14
US	47099824	RR8WURB6M6FO	9004126899	558265722	The Deuteronomic School: History, Social Setting, and Literature (Studies in Biblical Literature, Number 2)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A plausible reconstruction	Largely a rebuttal to claims of 'pan-deuteronomism', Person writes at a time when many assumptions about things deuteronom(ist)ic that have seemed settled since Noth are openly questioned in the perhaps unpromising search for a new consensus.  An introduction (pp. 1-16) brings the reader up to date on the proliferating meanings assigned terminology of which the definition once appeared to have been agreed, as well as on the tendency to multiply redactional layers in the Deuteronomistic literature beyond the two (Harvard School) and three (G'ttingen School) that until recently seemed a sufficient menu from which to choose.  Against the perceived expansionistic tendencies of deuteronomistic influence and redactions, some scholars have leveled accusations of 'pan-Deuteronism'. In the face of this, Person defends a relatively broad definition of Deuteronomic (his preferred term) influence and literatures, as well as proposing 'a way out of the confusion' by means of a four-angled approach that considers (a) text-critical controls on redaction criticism, (b) post-exilic Deuteronomic redaction, (c) evidence from ANE scribal schools, and (4) the Deuteronomic school's social location in an oral culture.<br /><br />A first chapter ('Redaction Criticism and Deuteronomic Literature', pp. 17-29) admits the redaction criticism has reached the limits of its ability to subdivide redactional layers by means of linguistic arguments, since 'all Deuteronomic redactors use Deuteronomic language'. However he is not prepared to question the validity of such distinctions, since to do so would lead to abandonment of criticism altogether.  M. Weinfeld's Deuteronomy and the Deuteronomic Schools is accepted as a base-line statement on Deuteronomism based upon linguistic criteria, beyond which it is perhaps not wise to press further.  The way out of this apparent impasse is to suppose post-exilic Deuteronomic redactional activity and to pursue this based upon text-critical criteria.<br /><br />'The Deuteronomistic School in the Persian Period' (Chapter 2, pp. 31-63) fills out Person's point regarding Deuteronomistic editorial work in the post-exilic period, critiquing those who limit this to the Exile.  For person, that scholarly assumption totters on the slender base that results from defining a terminus ante quem based solely upon the last-mentioned events in the work.  The balance of the chapter surveys text-critical research since Qumran that indicate continued redactional work (post-LXX and on the MT) that bears the fingerprints of the Deuteronomists (a 'school', for Person, thus plural).  Person complements his text-critical conclusions by questioning received wisdom about the exclusive relevance of DtrH's themes for an exilic audience, finding them just as pertinent in the post-exile.  A final section offers an historical reconstruction of a Deuteronomistic school's return to the land under Persian sponsorship with sufficient infrastructure in place to support its semi-official duties.<br /><br />Person's argument for the idea that biblical scribes were more than copyists will be strengthened if he can demonstrate that such was the cases across the ANE, and this is precisely what he argues in 'Scribal Schools in the Ancient Near East' (Chapter 3, pp. 65-81).  Although Person shares the developing consensus that formal schools were not widespread in pre-exilic Israel, he does believe there is ample evidence for the formal training of scribes.  In the exilic and post-exilic periods, the Persian empire made use of professional scribes.  Person considers that the biblical portrayal of Ezra fits this institution.  He believes that the Deuteronomic School returned to Yehud with Zerubbabel and finds precedent in Qumran scribal practices for a role that included not only copying but what we could today consider composition and redaction.<br /><br /> In his fourth chapter ('The Deuteronomic School in its Oral World', pp. 83-101), Person relies heavily uponthe work of S. Niditch in an attempt to move the discussion away from individual authorship (a modern rather than ancient concept that is at home in oral cultures).  Even text criticism goes awry when it understands the `word' in a literary rather than an oral matrix. In the latter case it can mean something quite different than what we products of a literary culture and training assume.  Thus, many textual 'variants' should not be understood as that, but rather as alternative oral expressions of the same referent.  The scribe is then akin to an oral performer as he carries out his function.  Within the context of an interplay between oral and literary aspects of culture, Person would have us understand the Deuteronomic school as a 'collective unity'.<br /><br />Having sketched out his theoretical assumptions, Person now turns to seating the Deuteronomic School in a particular social and historical context (Ch. 5, 'Deuteronomic Literature during the Time of Zerubbabel', pp. 103-122).  His task in this chapter is to analyze selected passages with a view to how these would have been understood in his conjectured accompaniment of Zerubbabel by the School in the return to Yehud.  Person envisages a kind of nomistic conditionality that would have been relevant to the task of reestablishing Jewish life in the land after the disaster-deserved according to Deuteronomistic theology-of exile.  His task is carried out in similar fashion with regard to the later post-exilic period (Ch. 6, 'Deuteronomic Literature after the time of Zerubbabel, pp. 123-135).  The Deuteronomists initially supported Zerubbabel's mission and lent conditional support to the Davidide leaders and temple complex under Persian sponsorship.  However, they became disillusioned-an import and repeated word in Person's argument-and eventually their hopes for redemption migrated to the metahistorical sphere.<br /><br />Person's final full chapter (Ch. 7, 'The Deuteronomic School and Other Postexilic Literature', pp. 137-145) cites evidence from other scholars of Deuteronom(ist)ic influence upon the redaction of the post-exilic prophets Haggai and Zechariah.  Having the extended the active life of the Deuteronomic scribal school into the post-exilic period, it is convenient for Person to explain this influence in terms of full-blown Deuteronomic redaction of these two prophets' material.  Indeed, Haggai and Zechariah were probably in league with the Deuteronomic School.  Person then explains Ezra-Nehemiah-Chronicles as the work of a second scribal school that returned to Yehud with Ezra and was in some measure discordant with the Deuteronomists.  The arrival of this new party, with Persian sponsorship, occasioned the demise of the Deuteronomic school.<br /><br />Person concludes this important work with a helpful summary of his argument.  The author has produced a plausible reconstruction of the social setting of the Deuteronomic School and so potentially illuminated the literature it produced.  The book is marred by an unusual number of misspellings, particular in the case of authors' names and publishing houses.attempt to move the discussion away from individual authorship (a modern rather than ancient concept that is at home in oral cultures).  Even text criticism goes awry when it understands the `word' in a literary rather than an oral matrix. In the latter case it can mean something quite different than what we products of a literary culture and training assume.  Thus, many textual 'variants' should not be understood as that, but rather as alternative oral expressions of the same referent.  The scribe is then akin to an oral performer as he carries out his function.  Within the context of an interplay between oral and literary aspects of culture, Person would have us understand the Deuteronomic school as a 'collective unity'.    Having sketched out his theoretical assumptions, Person now turns to seating the Deuteronomic School in a particular social and historical context (Ch. 5, 'Deuteronomic Literature during the Time of Zerubbabel', pp. 103-122).  His task in this chapter is to analyze selected passages with a view to how these would have been understood in his conjectured accompaniment of Zerubbabel by the School in the return to Yehud.  Person envisages a kind of nomistic conditionality that would have been relevant to the task of reestablishing Jewish life in the land after the disaster-deserved according to Deuteronomistic theology-of exile.  His task is carried out in similar fashion with regard to the later post-exilic period (Ch. 6, 'Deuteronomic Literature after the time of Zerubbabel, pp. 123-135).  The Deuteronomists initially supported Zerubbabel's mission and lent conditional support to the Davidide leaders and temple complex under Persian sponsorship.  However, they became disillusioned-an import and repeated word in Person's argument-and eventually their hopes for redemption migrated to the metahistorical sphere.    Person's final full chapter (Ch. 7, 'The Deuteronomic School and Other Postexilic Literature', pp. 137-145) cites evidence from other scholars of Deuteronom(ist)ic influence upon the redaction of the post-exilic prophets Haggai and Zechariah.  Having the extended the active life of the Deuteronomic scribal school into the post-exilic period, it is convenient for Person to explain this influence in terms of full-blown Deuteronomic redaction of these two prophets' material.  Indeed, Haggai and Zechariah were probably in league with the Deuteronomic School.  Person then explains Ezra-Nehemiah-Chronicles as the work of a second scribal school that returned to Yehud with Ezra and was in some measure discordant with the Deuteronomists.  The arrival of this new party, with Persian sponsorship, occasioned the demise of the Deuteronomic school.    Person concludes this important work with a helpful summary of his argument.  The author has produced a plausible reconstruction of the social setting of the Deuteronomic School and so potentially illuminated the literature it produced.  The book is marred by an unusual number of misspellings, particular in the case of authors' names and publishing houses.	2005-09-05
US	47099824	R338FGFK767B9X	1555404871	435606355	The Melbourne Symposium on Septuagint Lexicography (SEPTUAGINT AND COGNATE STUDIES SERIES) (English and Ancient Greek Edition)	Books	2	5	5	N	N	a snapshot of the 1980s IOSCS and LXX lexicography	The Australian lexicographer T. Muraoka gathers in this slim volume a selection of papers that demonstrate the concern to upgrade the tools and methodologies available to Septuagintalists that was expressed among the members of the  International Organization of Septuagint and Cognate Studies in the late 1980s.<br /><br />J.A.L. Lee chooses the 'unexciting' word SUNISTEMI to demonstrate a technique of 'framing definitions' that reduces attention to the supposed Hebrew background and aligns Septuagint lexicography with the OXFORD ENGLISH DICTIONARY and OXFORD LATIN DICTIONARY ('Sunistemi: a sample lexical entry', pp. 1-15).<br /><br />The editor himself makes the book's lengthiest contribution ('Septuagintal lexicography: some general issues', pp. 17-47).  In it he argues for the importance of 'function words', a maximalist approach to the information conveyed in an LXX lexicon, semantic field, hapax legomena, and a number of other issues that reflect serious consideration of the Septuagint as a Greek document.  Muraoka's essay is self-evidently intended as a prolegomenon to an IOSCS lexicon project.<br /><br />S.P. Swinn tackles a word group well known to readers of the New Testament ('Agapan in the Septuagint', pp. 49-81'), arguing that it was just one of the ordinarily available words for 'love' at the time of the LXX translation project.<br /><br />E. Tov borrows the title of David Hill's 1967 monograph ('Greek words and Hebrew Meanings') as the title of a substantial contribution to the same phenomenon.  Tov is one of the most respected scholars in the IOSCS.  As always, his work repays careful study.<br /><br />T. Muroaka's book is not earth-shaking, but does provide a valuable snapshot of the preparations for new works in Septuagintal lexicography at an early stage of the recipe.	2005-08-28
US	47099824	R1A72LBI62PZ07	0143034790	388201475	Colossus: The Rise and Fall of the American Empire	Books	4	164	177	N	N	an important argument from a master contrarian	This troubling book by a prolific scholar of empire dissects the American version of that phenomenon in eight well-researched chapters and a conclusion.  Ominously, his first four chapters are grouped under the title 'Rise' and the last four under 'Fall?'.  Ferguson's personal interest in empire and his unusually positive appreciation of its role in human history is best understood by first reading EMPIRE: THE RISE AND DEMISE OF THE BRITISH WORLD ORDER AND THE LESSONS FOR GLOBAL POWER.<br /><br />Ferguson is convinced that empires can only be understood comparatively-by comparing one with another-and against the alternative of anarchy.  This brings a welcome realism to the discussion of how empires should and shouldn't behave.  His interest in empire is not merely academic.  He confesses in his epilogue what his book theorizes throughout: 'I believe the world needs an effective liberal empire and that the United States is the best candidate for the job'.<br /><br />The author believes that America has always been an empire but is afflicted with the peculiar need to deny this fact.  Popular criticism considers empire a bad thing, but because Ferguson insists that we take seriously what has happened in the absence of empire, he stands apart from those whose reflex is to equate empire with oppression and the unjust imposition of alien structures.  Ferguson wishes that America would get over its denial complex and get on with being a productive empire in a world that, more often than not, simply needs that.<br /><br />In 'The Limits of the American Empire' (ch. 1, pp. 33-60), Ferguson shows that Americans thought, spoke, and wrote in imperial terms from the moment of their secession from the British Empire.  Often this was articulated in stark contrast to their self-identity as the anti-empire.  Still, in all their attempts at empire and colonization there was a chronic failure to execute well.  By comparison with America's imperial antecedents, its hegemonic achievements up to World War I were unimpressive.<br /><br />American exceptionalism-to my knowledge a term that Ferguson does not employ in this book-manifested itself in the pre-WWII insistence that America could be an empire unlike all previous empires ('The Imperialism of Anti-Imperialism', pp. 61-104).  The author trenchantly observes that '(f)or an empire in denial, there is really only one way to act imperially with a clear conscience, and that is to combat someone else's imperialism.'  The rhetoric of anti-imperialism pervaded the post-War growth of America's influence, in spite of the obvious ironies.  Ferguson analyzes the remarkable fate of Japan and West Germany under American stewardship, all of which begs the question of why this extraordinary achievement-or accident-has not occurred with more frequency elsewhere.<br /><br />One man, Douglas Macarthur, appeared to have the inclination and gumption to become America's emperor.  However, his ambition was decisively rejected and, like all good soldiers, in the end he faded away.  Ferguson wonders whether Macarthur was right about 'winning Korea'.  He might have ended hostilities two years ahead of time.  Harry Truman's self-restraint, if that's what it was, rang out its echo in the growing 'bad conscience' about Vietnam two decades later.  Americans, it would seem, did not have the heart to exert its influence in foreign lands with the attention span that fulfillment of its intentions would require.<br /><br />Ferguson is a master of turning the tables on comfortable assumptions, a skill he engages with relish in 'The Civilization of Clashes' (ch. 3, pp. 105-131).  He argues that the United States is a late arrival in the Middle East and that it has been far more interested in containing Soviet advances in the region than in hijacking its oil wealth.<br /><br />Nevertheless, a robust American response to the events of September 11 was made inevitable by what Ferguson calls '11/9', the collapse of the Soviet Union.With Israel having assumed for so many years that it had carte blanque from the US to impose a military solution to its own territorial woes, the disappearance of a Soviet checkmate in the Middle East, and the growing western dependence on oil from the region, American military action was inevitable.  What the terrorists achieved on September 11, 2001, was the inadvertent psychological shock that would allow Americans to support a full-scale incursion into the region.<br /><br />The provocatively titled 'Splendid Multilateralism' (ch. 4, pp. 132-166) wraps up Ferguson's first section on the `rise' of the American Colossus.  The term is a play on the Victorian reference to 'splendid isolation', not a good thing for the long-lived monarch's diplomatic advisers.  Ferguson is at paints to show that multilateralism is not a always the splendid treasure that popular discussion of the diplomatic run-up to George Bush, Jr.'s invasion of Iraq often assumed it to be.<br /><br />If I am reading Ferguson correctly, he can barely conceal his contempt for Bill Clinton's aversion to military casualties and the UN's oft-stated but seldom-executed desire to intervene in trouble spots on behalf of the international community.  Indeed, he uses the A-word ('appeasement') to describe the UN's (i.e. the Europeans') response to the Bosnian crisis.<br /><br />With regard to Iraq, the author believes that George W. Bush's appeal to multilateralism-hardly his crass unilateralism!-created more trouble than either America or Britain needed.  There were solid reasons for intervening without tying oneself in knots at the UN.  Still, Bush was incapable of making the kind of long-term commitment to a nation-building task that Candidate Bush had specifically derided to accomplish a goal worthy of an empire's good name.<br /><br />Ferguson begins his part two ('Fall?') with 'The Case for Liberal Empire' (ch. 5, pp. 169-199) by making the audacious observation that empires have been around much longer than nation-states and thus are the more permanent fixture in history.  However, the imperial phenomenon reached its zenith in the nineteenth century, then began its decline in the twentieth, 'impelled forward by a combination of European exhaustion, non-European nationalism and American idealism.'  Empire was blamed for poverty, an accusation that Ferguson believes to have been refuted by post-imperial history.<br /><br />The author then develops his argument that institutions and the free flow of capital are missing in post-colonial countries that remain poor.  Importantly, these are two factors that empires seem relatively well prepared to establish and maintain.  In a line of thinking that hearkens back to his Empire, Ferguson indicates that Britain's empire was fairly good at the kind of global integration-he calls it 'Anglobalization'-that safeguard liberal institutionalism. He then builds a bridge to the concern with American empire that is indicated by the book's title.  Some countries, Ferguson provocatively urges, would indisputably benefit from American colonial administration.  But is the United States capable of such 'long-term engagement'?  If not, failure is predestined.<br /><br />'Going Home or Organizing Hypocrisy' (ch 6, pp. 200-226) is a frightening comparison of the bland ambitions fostered by elite U.S. university graduates when compared with those of Oxbridge during Britain's imperium.  I do not often find a book personally depressing, but this chapter is an exception.  With devastating effect, Ferguson shines a light on American culture's short attention span with regard to the role its citizens are prepared to play in the wider world.  An American reader does not have to agree to Ferguson's thesis about the appropriateness of empire in our day in order to lament this collective loss of will to think and act largely. It is futile to speak of nation building when the comforts of home have achieved canonical status, undermining the very plausibility of difficult work for an extended time in another place.  The 'hypocrisy' of the chapter is actually a virtue that Ferguson urges upon America in its occupation of Iraq.  Promise to go home soon, but don't even think about doing so.<br /><br />Ferguson's seventh chapter ('\\"Impire\\": Europe between Brussels and Byzantium', pp. 227-257) examines the possibility of a European alternative to America's unipolar empire.  He finds the American specter of an EU rival plausible in its potentiality, but then judges it too distant for worry.<br /><br />Penultimately, Ferguson turns in his final full chapter (Ch. 8, 'The Closing Door', pp. 258-285) to the appalling financial balance sheet of the American economy.  America is indeed suffering from 'overstretch', but not of the variety usually bewailed by the critics of its military engagements.  Rather, domestic overstretch of the financially irresponsible variety threatens to bring the American lion to its knees.  Given that Asian-including Chinese-central bankers have until now underwritten America's passion for indebting itself, Ferguson urges us to consider the risks to China's tentative door-opening strategies should a cocktail of financial events that is not hard to imagine for the US to default on the global financial commitments it has assumed.<br /><br />In his epilogue ('Conclusion: Looking Homeward', pp. 286-303), Ferguson manages both searing criticism and touching concern.  Summarizing his book, he argues that for all its unrivaled prominence America suffers three deficits: economic, manpower, and attention.  Though he hopes so, he is not sure the third can be overcome.<br /><br />Thus, the American Colossus may fall before time.  Ferguson's peculiar contribution is to force us to imagine the consequences in something other than banal truisms.  The decline of empires can just as well prove the occasion for tears as for jubilation., the imperial phenomenon reached its zenith in the nineteenth century, then began its decline in the twentieth, 'impelled forward by a combination of European exhaustion, non-European nationalism and American idealism.'  Empire was blamed for poverty, an accusation that Ferguson believes to have been refuted by post-imperial history.    The author then develops his argument that institutions and the free flow of capital are missing in post-colonial countries that remain poor.  Importantly, these are two factors that empires seem relatively well prepared to establish and maintain.  In a line of thinking that hearkens back to his Empire, Ferguson indicates that Britain's empire was fairly good at the kind of global integration-he calls it 'Anglobalization'-that safeguard liberal institutionalism. He then builds a bridge to the concern with American empire that is indicated by the book's title.  Some countries, Ferguson provocatively urges, would indisputably benefit from American colonial administration.  But is the United States capable of such 'long-term engagement'?  If not, failure is predestined.    'Going Home or Organizing Hypocrisy' (ch 6, pp. 200-226) is a frightening comparison of the bland ambitions fostered by elite U.S. university graduates when compared with those of Oxbridge during Britain's imperium.  I do not often find a book personally depressing, but this chapter is an exception.  With devastating effect, Ferguson shines a light on American culture's short attention span with regard to the role its citizens are prepared to play in the wider world.  An American reader does not have to agree to Ferguson's thesis about the appropriateness of empire in our day in order to lament this collective loss of will to think and act largely. It is futile to speak of nation building when the comforts of home have achieved canonical status, undermining the very plausibility of difficult work for an extended time in another place.  The 'hypocrisy' of the chapteris actually a virtue that Ferguson urges upon America in its occupation of Iraq.  Promise to go home soon, but don't even think about doing so.    Ferguson's seventh chapter ('\\"Impire\\": Europe between Brussels and Byzantium', pp. 227-257) examines the possibility of a European alternative to America's unipolar empire.   He finds the American specter of an EU rival plausible in its potentiality, but then judges it too distant for worry.    Penultimately, Ferguson turns in his final full chapter (Ch. 8, 'The Closing Door', pp. 258-285) to the appalling financial balance sheet of the American economy.  America is indeed suffering from 'overstretch', but not of the variety usually bewailed by the critics of its military engagements.  Rather, domestic overstretch of the financially irresponsible variety threatens to bring the American lion to its knees.  Given that Asian-including Chinese-central bankers have until now underwritten America's passion for indebting itself, Ferguson urges us to consider the risks to China's tentative door-opening strategies should a cocktail of financial events that is not hard to imagine for the US to default on the global financial commitments it has assumed.    In his epilogue ('Conclusion: Looking Homeward', pp. 286-303), Ferguson manages both searing criticism and touching concern.  Summarizing his book, he argues that for all its unrivaled prominence America suffers three deficits: economic, manpower, and attention.  Though he hopes so, he is not sure the third can be overcome.      Thus, the American Colossus may fall before time.  Ferguson's peculiar contribution is to force us to imagine the consequences in something other than banal truisms.  The decline of empires can just as well prove the occasion for tears as for jubilation.	2005-08-28
US	47099824	R2XII681KIQMIC	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	an uncommonly steady gaze	I didn't fall in love with this Pulitzer-prize-winning debut until the final chapter, but the glow of this delayed romance now reflects back upon the chapter-long stories that preceded it.  Lahiri writes from the space between the old country and the America to which generations of transients have emigrated, ceasing in the process to belong entirely to their origin or their destination.<br /><br />For Lahiri and the characters whose stories she so skillfully tells, the Old Country is India and the sector of America where all things are new-though just for the time it takes for them to become familiarly alien-is mostly Boston and its university communities.<br /><br />Ms. Lahiri is eminently aware of the dignity, the indignities, and the battle to negotiate both of these that is the task of the perceived underdog when two cultures meet and quietly clash.  It would not be difficult to locate this young author in the tradition of E.M. Forster's PASSAGE TO INDIA, though their distinct ethnicities might veil the literary and spiritual genetics that link them.<br /><br />In MALADIES, Lahiri tells nine independent stories in prose that does not call attention to itself nor, except for the insightfulness it reveals, impress at first glance.  Yet one grows fond of the no-nonsense accent with which she traces the small hopes-quite often shattered-the unrealized vanities, and the muffled blows that characterize the lives of Mr. Karpasi, Mrs. Sen, Bibi Haldar, and the nameless 'Bengali bachelor like myself'.  She recounts the latter man's tale of transplantation to New England with his sari-clad wife in the first person, as though she knew the life of such a man from the inside out.<br /><br />Though the author's descriptive prowess is obvious from the outset, she clinches the reputation of this fine literary debut in her last chapter ('The Third and Final Continent') in the moment that the aforementioned Bengali bachelor stumbles upon the obituary of his former landlady in the Globe:<br /><br />'I had not thought of her in several months - by then those six weeks of the summer were already a remote interlude in my past - but when I learned of her death I was stricken, so much that when Mala looked up from her knitting she found me staring at the wall, the newspaper neglected in my lap, unable to speak.  Mrs. Croft's was the first death I mourned in America, for hers was the first life I had admired; she left this world at last, ancient and alone, never to return.'<br /><br />One hopes that the recognition this book has earned will not inflate Lahiri's style nor deflect the steady gaze that lends a remarkable authenticity to her gentle observations.of her in several months - by then those six weeks of the summer were already a remote interlude in my past - but when I learned of her death I was stricken, so much that when Mala looked up from her knitting she found me staring at the wall, the newspaper neglected in my lap, unable to speak.  Mrs. Croft's was the first death I mourned in America, for hers was the first life I had admired; she left this world at last, ancient and alone, never to return.'    One hopes that the recognition this book has earned will not inflate Lahiri's style nor deflect the steady gaze that lends a remarkable authenticity to her gentle observations.	2005-08-13
US	47099824	RDDOC7HGNKUNY	0830816933	746500281	Knowing Jesus Through the Old Testament (Knowing God Through the Old Testament Set)	Books	4	95	102	N	N	looking over Jesus' shoulder as he reads his Jewish Bible	When scholars write popular books, it is sometimes evident that they are speaking a strange tongue.  Chris Wright's semi-popular biblical theology does not suffer this deficiency.  Wright wears his scholarship lightly and writes with a good preacher's respect for his audience's intelligence and lack of awareness of the issues that detain and entertain the specialist.  The result is a solid and enriching example of a mature hermeneutic that takes the Old Testament seriously in its own right, and then seeks in it a witness to Jesus.<br /><br />The organization of the book's five chapters underscores the book's unwavering focus on both the Old Testament and on Jesus.  Wright names them, respectively, 'Jesus and the Old Testament Story', 'Jesus and the Old Testament Promise', 'Jesus and his Old Testament Identity', 'Jesus and his Old Testament Mission', 'Jesus and his Old Testament Values'.  The result is a confessionally Christian biblical-theological treatment of the texts that avoids and occasionally critiques the hermeneutical blunders that bedevil much Christian proclamation of Old Testament texts.<br /><br />In his first chapter ('... Story', pp. 1-54), Wright presents a fairly conventional survey of Old Testament history and literature.  I use the term with no pejorative meaning, for Wright is convinced the average Christian knows little of this material, and so his task is essentially remedial.  Indeed, his method has biblical precedent, for example in Stephen's speech in Acts chapter seven.<br /><br />The author takes his cues from the manner in which the gospels frame their protagonist in terms of his relationship to a heritage that we know principally from the pages of the Old Testament.  It is evident from the outset that Wright will read Jesus with rather than against the grain of the Old Testament and the Judaism of his own day, an argument that will be developed in the book's final chapter.<br /><br />Wright gives due attention to the 'inter-testamental literature' and, to this reader's satisfaction, attempts a brief rehabilitation of the Pharisees, a matter that requires attention in the light of his chosen readership of 'typical Christian carol-singers'.  Wright is eager to establish that the Old Testament sets the basic definitions of terms like 'redemption', 'salvation', and the like that will be bandied about in the New in the expectation that readers will know to what they refer.  He is particularly attentive to the character of the Old Testament as 'story', a tale that will not be fully told by the time the first testament comes to its end, and so points forward to God's subsequent redemptive activity in Jesus himself.  Indeed, 'the Messiah was Israel', an affirmation that for Wright seems to hint more at the continuity between the two literary sections of the biblical story than at the discontinuity that is evidenced by them.<br /><br />The relationship of story to promise is critical for a work of this kind, not least because a popular view of the Old Testament as a context-less 'book of promises' about Messiah is strong among many Christians.  The architecture of Wright's book already suggests a more organic link between Old Testament story and promise, a matter to which the author turns in chapter two ('Jesus and the Old Testament Promise', pp. 55-102).  Noting the manner in which the Gospel of Matthew cites texts with regard to Jesus that were actually written of Israel, Wright offers this programmatic statement: 'Not only does the Old Testament tell the story which Jesus completes, it also declares the promise which Jesus fulfils.'  The singular word `promise' where one might have anticipated 'promises' signals Wright's intention to develop a  nuanced and unmechanical view of how Jesus accomplishes this completion and this fulfillment.  For Wright, Matthew begins with the experience of Jesus that he shares with his community and works his way back to Old Testament scriptures that are now seen to possessa deeper sense than another reader might have anticipated.  The Old Testament is a matrix of promise in that it reveals a God who promises redemption, restoration, healing, and the like.  Jesus, in unforeseen ways, becomes the agent of that complex and hope-instilling promise.<br /><br />Wright accents the personal ('I-Thou') nature of promise, including its need for a response if it to become effectual.  He is also eager to establish that promise affirms the history and the people among which it was established in a way that mere prediction cannot.  Though Wright does not use this language, this allows the Old Testament to point towards fulfillment in a impressionistic or even 'fuzzy' manner rather than in the mechanical precision that today motivates some Christians to discover mechanical and ludicrous literal fulfillment of a vision never intended for such realism and little adapted to its requirements.<br /><br />A final section embeds promise in the rich concept of covenant.  Wright is surely faithful to his sources when he concludes that 'the overwhelming impression that makes itself felt through all this study of promise and covenant, is God's unwavering intention to bless.'<br /><br />'Jesus and his Old Testament Identity' (Chapter three, pp. 103-135) probes what scholars call the `messianic self-identity' of Jesus, a topic that might seem odd or even contentious to Christian believers who have not thought seriously about Jesus' humanity.  Wright wants to establish the fundamental role that the Hebrew Scriptures played for the 'carpenter's son from Nazareth, who takes upon himself a staggering identity with awesome personal consequence ... by accepting and internalizing three Old Testament figures.'  The chief value of this chapter is Wright's extended exploration of typology, a venerable and much-abused element of Christian hermeneutics.  For Wright, the typological instinct is valid as `a way of understanding Christ and the various events and experiences surrounding him in the New Testament by analogy or correspondence with the historical realities of the Old Testament seen as patterns or models'.  This definition once again locks the two poles of his book (Jesus and the Old Testament) in an embrace without which each loses its meaning, worth, and veracity.  An extended discussion of what Jesus and his earliest interpreters meant by the phrase 'son of God, as this was applied to the aforementioned carpenter's son.<br /><br />'Jesus and his Old Testament Mission' (Chapter four, pp. 136-180) underscores the reality that Jesus' self-identity was inseparably bound to his sense of having been sent by his Father.  Palestinian Jewish self-consciousness at the time found expression in the concept of exile.  It was a simple thing to transfer the moniker and imperial qualities of biblical 'Babylon' to Rome, a new generation's oppressive presence.  Over against this imperial intrusiveness, popular Jewish expectation focused on Israel's restoration.<br /><br />Both John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth stepped into this cauldron of hope and resentment, in solidarity with the imminent fact of Israel's redemption but with a novel angle on how that was to be accomplished.  A number of linguistic and conceptual receptacles were ready at hand to be filled with the content that Jesus would bring to them: son of Man, anointed one ('messiah'), servant of the Lord.  With varying degrees of reticence and enthusiasm, Jesus used or allowed these terms to be used of him, typically modifying the accent in surprising directions that the early church, upon further reflection, would transmit in the teaching and proclamation that are the stuff of the New Testament.<br /><br />Jesus and the apostles were able to discern an ample participation by non-Jews in the 'Israelite' restoration that they perceived occurring in their midst.  Paul would work this out into a clearer articulation of his own 'sending' or mission to the gentiles.<br /><br />Wright's final chapter ('Jesus and his Old Testament Values', pp. 181-252) shows how Jesus life was fully aligned in moral-ethical terms with his Old Testament legacy.  This chapter competently indicates the continuity between the testaments, since for Wright Jesus more often underscores or occasionally draws out the fuller implications of Old Testament ethics as they already exist than adds uniquely New Testament-ish ethical instruction.rical realities of the Old Testament seen as patterns or models'.  This definition once again locks the two poles of his book (Jesus and the Old Testament) in an embrace without which each loses its meaning, worth, and veracity.  An extended discussion of what Jesus and his earliest interpreters meant by the phrase 'son of God, as this was applied to the aforementioned carpenter's son.  'Jesus and his Old Testament Mission' (Chapter four, pp. 136-180) underscores the reality that Jesus' self-identity was inseparably bound to his sense of having been sent by his Father.  Palestinian Jewish self-consciousness at the time found expression in the concept of exile.  It was a simple thing to transfer the moniker and imperial qualities of biblical 'Babylon' to Rome, a new generation's oppressive presence.  Over against this imperial intrusiveness, popular Jewish expectation focused on Israel's restoration.  Both John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth stepped into this cauldron of hope and resentment, in solidarity with the imminent fact of Israel's redemption but with a novel angle on how that was to be accomplished.  A number of linguistic and conceptual receptacles were ready at hand to be filled with the content that Jesus would bring to them: son of Man, anointed one ('messiah'), servant of the Lord.  With varying degrees of reticence and enthusiasm, Jesus used or allowed these terms to be used of him, typically modifying the accent in surprising directions that the early church, upon further reflection, would transmit in the teaching and proclamation that are the stuff of the New Testament.  Jesus and the apostles were able to discern an ample participation by non-Jews in the 'Israelite' restoration that they perceived occurring in their midst.  Paul would work this out into a clearer articulation of his own 'sending' or mission to the gentiles.  Wright's final chapter ('Jesus and his Old Testament Values', pp. 181-252) shows how Jesus life was fully aligned in moral-ethical terms with his Old Testament legacy.  This chapter competently indicates the continuity between the testaments, since for Wright Jesus more often underscores or occasionally draws out the fuller implications of Old Testament ethics as they already exist than adds uniquely New Testament-ish ethical instruction.	2005-08-11
US	47099824	R2HBGCYJHTIDDJ	1842272772	397291144	Holy Land, Holy City: Sacred Geography and the Interpretation of the Bible	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	modern land conflict through the lens of ancient texts	The trajectory of this thoughtful book begins in the primeval history of Genesis, continues through texts of both Old and New Testaments, and finishes in the heated context of the contemporary Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the belligerent use that is frequently made of these same biblical sources.  HOLY LAND, HOLY CITY is well suited to the reader who is willing to engage complex argument on her way to a better understanding of the biblical and theological underpinnings of 'land theology' and contemporary conflicts over land.  R.P. Gordon is the Regius Professor of Hebrew at the University of Cambridge and a highly regarded linguist and biblical interpreter.<br /><br />A first chapter ('Absent City/Missing Mountains in Genesis 1-11', pp. 5-16) explains its surprising absentees in terms of the 'wide range of interest and the partial self-exclusion' that characterize Israel's account of origins.  Gordon discerns in these texts a concern for historical veracity-Zion was not yet-and perhaps demythologization, the latter a concern not shared by Psalmic and rabbinical renditions of primeval history.<br /><br />The author's chapter two ('The Land Theology of Genesis 4', pp. 17-26) discerns gradations of distancing from the Lord's presence as one moves to the first parents' plight to that of their fratricidal son, this time with a legitimate reference to banishment that anticipates later 'land theology'.  Still, the blossoming of that theology is held in check by the primeval story line and its proto-historical requirements.<br /><br />In 'The City of God' (ch. 3, pp. 27-34), Gordon sketches the special privileges accorded to Jerusalem once that city became recognized as Israel's cultic centre.  Even if the Old Testament does not manifest the 'omphalos mythology' that the author considers novel in post-biblical literatures, the restraints discussed in prior chapters are now abandoned and Zion to be celebrated in hyperbolic terms by Psalms and prophets both as witness to her present greatness and as prophetic expectation of grander things to come.  'How Did Psalm 48 Happen? (ch. 4, pp. 35-45) suggests that hyperbole does not equate to mythic, arguing that the psalm under review is more likely to exalt Zion and its divine defender in the light of historical reminiscence than merely cultic reenactment.  Mythic language can be used in portrayal of historical events without dissolving the space-and-time deliverance that in a psalm like this one comes to memory.<br /><br />Gordon next follows the theme of sacred geography into the New Testament and Christian tradition, hearkening back to his earlier definition of the notion by delineating ('The Geography of Golgotha', pp. 47-61) how 'Golgotha enjoys a Zion-like centrality in theology that leaves literal, physical considerations far behind.'  The Old Testament constructs its view of Jerusalem's future in terms similar to those by which Christian faith works out is view of Golgotha.  In 'Future Dimensions' (ch. 6, pp. 63-80), the author traces the elevation, irrigation, sanctification, and extension of Jerusalem as these are developed in the Old Testament and elaborated in post-biblical literature.  Such prospects for the holy city-particularly in the light of universalistic associations that attach themselves to various of the texts-give good sense to the practice of pilgrimage to Zion in the meantime.  'Marching to Zion' (ch. 7, pp. 81-98) chronicles the development of just such pilgrimage-to-Jerusalem traditions in both Jewish and Christian antiquity.<br /><br />Gordon brings to a conclusion his consideration of sacred geography per se in his eighth chapter ('Literalism, Determinism, and the Future', pp. 99-117).  It becomes a platform from which he appeals for reflection upon the dead ends that typically result from literalistic exegesis and the apocalyptic determinism that too often results, the latter wresting from modern hands the strength and desire to do anything about events thatare now taken to be simply things as God has ordained them to occur.  Gordon brings us up short with his nearly irrefutable claim that 'bad exegesis claims lives', a conclusion no doubt nourished by the author's own frequent sojourns in Israel and the Palestinian territories.  The book ends by considering the way the New Testament relativizes the role of place in establishing relationship with the risen Christ, plus an appendix comprising General Charles Gordon's notes on Eden and Golgotha.d has ordained them to occur.  Gordon brings us up short with his nearly irrefutable claim that 'bad exegesis claims lives', a conclusion no doubt nourished by the author's own frequent sojourns in Israel and the Palestinian territories.  The book ends by considering the way the New Testament relativizes the role of place in establishing relationship with the risen Christ, plus an appendix comprising General Charles Gordon's notes on Eden and Golgotha.	2005-08-04
US	47099824	R1WEOIYDNVCFU3	140003471X	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	5	5	5	N	N	vintage Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez in short form	Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez did not win the Nobel Prize for Literature and become Colombia's favorite son by accident.  This book, among his best, anchors his reputation as one of Latin America's greatest novelists.<br /><br />Chronicle is vintage Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez from the programmatic opening sentence, 'On the day that they were going to kill him, Santiago Nasar rose at 5:30 in the morning to wait for the boat on which the bishop was to arrive.'  Doomed Santiago-who is probably innocent of the outrage that led to his murder by a bride's twin brothers-collapses dead on his kitchen floor in the book's closing line.<br /><br />In between, the author treats us to the most unlikely turn of events, as everyone in the village except the dead man walking knows that his end is near but is too distracted by meaningless details, fascinated by the unfolding scenario, or rendered inert by fate to intervene.  There may somewhere live a wittier and more ironic writer than Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez, but it would take a lifetime to find her.  Time is better spent with this novel and one or two of the author's other short works.  Leave his competition outside in the rain.  I recommend El coronel no tiene quien le escriba (The Coronel Has No One to Write to Him) as a companion to Cr&oacute;nica, for there one encounters the dignified wait that is the lot of the Latin American peasant, abandoned by the machinery of state in the distant capital but resilient against the desperation that would bring him low if his nobility gave pause.<br /><br />Chronicle is Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez at his most absurd.  His characters are what they are by destiny, incapable for the most part of imagining an alternative and immensely colorful-against all odds-as they recite their lines and stare inconstant and inert from the shadows of their shops as Nasar stumbles blithely towards his excruciating demise.  Only the narrator and the twin assassins exert themselves as though capable of changing fate.  For all his running after his friend Santiago, the former never catches up with him in time and nobody-try as they might-can be roused by the Vicario brothers to stop them consummating the nasty business that honor has thrust upon them.<br /><br />We will never know why Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez' narrator returns twenty years later to trace the steps of a village full of protagonists, nor why he publishes a chronicle of the fatal proceedings.  But be glad he did.  Read this book in Spanish if you can, in English if you must.<br /><br />Rarely does a celebrated writer remain so utterly accessible to his reader, his sparkling prose so natural and receivable to eye and ear.  Give this man two Nobel Prizes, or three.  Four would be few.tches up with him in time and nobody-try as they might-can be roused by the Vicario brothers to stop them consummating the nasty business that honor has thrust upon them.    We will never know why Garca Mrquez' narrator returns twenty years later to trace the steps of a village full of protagonists, nor why he publishes a chronicle of the fatal proceedings.  But be glad he did.  Read this book in Spanish if you can, in English if you must.       Rarely does a celebrated writer remain so utterly accessible to his reader, his sparkling prose so natural and receivable to eye and ear.  Give this man two Nobel Prizes, or three.  Four would be few.	2005-07-26
US	47099824	R2VI8ZZ7JQPMFL	0060013990	688765715	The Eve of Destruction: The Untold Story of the Yom Kippur War	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Israel's closest call?	The Israeli swagger that became a regional pose following the military victories of 1948 and 1967 quickly became a limp following near defeat at the hands of Egypt and Syria in the 1973 Yom Kippur War.  Howard Bloom's appropriately-titled chronicle of that October surprise reads like a novel, complete with an amorous young couple whose honeymoon was rudely interrupted by the outbreak of hostilities and a mysterious double agent called 'the In-Law'. Yet the events he describes were all too real.<br /><br />Though Blum is able to distill the self-denying heroism of Egyptian and Israeli soldiers into page-turning narrative, he reserves harsh invective for the Israeli military and political leadership whose success 17 years earlier blinded them to the realities of Egyptian and Syrian military rehabilitation on two of their nation's borders.<br /><br />Had it not been for Egyptian over-reaching-a breathtaking victory of hubris over battlefield facts-the Jewish 'Third Temple' experiment might well have gone down in flames.  The close call stunned Israel and contributed to the volatile mix of military strength and a persistent sense of insecurity that has characterized the state ever since.<br /><br />Blum is especially compelling when he describes the internecine battles within Egypt's ruling caste and the impossible survival of the Israeli line in the Golan during the hellish tank battles that should have put Syrian tanks in Tel Aviv rather than left them in smoking ruins just miles from Damascus.  In its desperation, Israel nearly went nuclear, a scenario almost too dire for contemplation.<br /><br />Blum's reporting is heavily dependent on personal interviews with those for whom a now settled fact was a minute-by-minute struggle for survival.	2005-07-26
US	47099824	R2POG6R44DANO4	1586860313	514418254	Understanding Nonprofit Financial Statements	Books	5	8	9	N	N	practical training for non-profit execs and board members	BoardSource (formerly the National Center for Nonprofit Boards) has distinguished itself as the premier source for high-quality, practical materials designed to equip nonprofit board members and officers to fulfill their considerable and evolving responsibilities.  Though pricey, its products represent high value.  This book is no exception.  For the board member or executive without business training, seven well-illustrated chapters serve as both a primer and a reference work that will be consulted often and profitably.<br /><br />Chapters one ('The Board's Role in Comparison to the Executive Role', 1-2) and two ('Different Types of Nonprofit Organizations', 3-4) establish the conceptual fundamentals that will be fleshed out with frequent reference to IRS regulations and GAAP practices in the chapters that follow.  'Differentiating Between Accounting Functions and Finance Functions' (Chapter three, pp. 5-6) will gladden the hearts of staff accountants everywhere by defining the limits of their task, responsibility and (sometimes) competence.<br /><br />The book's longest chapter ('Elements of Basic Audited Financial Statements', pp. 7-29) clarifies the difference between nonprofit and for-profit financial statements, a distinction that my organization's Vice President of Administration-and my tutor in such affairs-insists few non-profit executives understand.  More importantly, it defines and illustrates each item on the statements of financial position (balance sheet), of activities, of cash flows, and of functional expenses.<br /><br />Chapter five ('Comparisons of Interim and Audited Financial Statements', pp. 30-33) clarifies the board's prerogative to see interim data in the form it deems most helpful, as opposed the GAAP-standardized format of year-end audited statements.<br /><br />Chapter six ('How to Use Financial Information to Perform Legal and Fiduciary Responsibilities', 34-35) and seven ('How to Use Financial Information to Determine Organizational Performance', pp. 36-49) illustrate the use of financial data.  Nonprofit managers will find the consideration of benchmarking and trending in the final chapter particularly useful.<br /><br />The book is attractively presented and includes useful 'hints for board members' throughout.  It should become a well-worn companion to nonprofit board members (for whom it claims to have been written) and executives (who will do well to acquire their own copy rather than peering over the shoulder of their board colleagues).rate the use of financial data.  Nonprofit managers will find the consideration of benchmarking and trending in the final chapter particularly useful.    The book is attractively presented and includes useful 'hints for board members' throughout.  It should become a well-worn companion to nonprofit board members (for whom it claims to have been written) and executives (who will do well to acquire their own copy rather than peering over the shoulder of their board colleagues).	2005-07-26
US	47099824	R3AMMTZB013349	081297106X	635066654	Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books	Books	5	15	18	N	N	sumptuous and dark writing	Just when the Police were winning a Grammy with a song that included the allusive line `just like the old man in that book by Nabakov', it was a crime to read Lolita in the Islamic Republic of Iran.  Azar Nafisi's spendidly-titled book chronicles one woman's experience of the Islamic Republic of Iran's long descent into decadent darkness.<br /><br />Through the lens of Nabokov's Lolita, Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby, the writings of Henry James and Jane Austen, and an idiosyncratic clutch of other works, Nafisi and her students interpret their lives as women whom their Islamicist countrymen would rather not acknowledge. First in university classrooms and then at weekly clandestine gatherings in Nafisi's apartment, she and `my girls' discuss the indignities, the illegal rage, and the inevitable accomodations with the regime that characterize the life under theocracy of those who have learned to think critically and, so, to bear the `burden of freedom'.<br /><br />This is sumptuous and sensuous writing.  Nafisi ends a chapter as few writers can, leaving one breathless with engaged attention.<br /><br />She knows as only the disillusioned radical can that the realization of a dream can prove a very bad thing indeed.  `Be careful what you hope for', she has learned to warn her girls and her readers.  At those odd moments when neither circumstances nor ideological humility impede the fulfillment of euphoric wishes, people are capable of creating hell on earth by getting what they have dreampt. The Islamic Republic is the nightmarish consequence of such a moment.<br /><br />Her book is filled with memorable characters that fill the mind's eye with a tone of voice, the curve of a cheek, the way one places himself always upon a couch and turns to listen.  Nafisi's evocative recountings give one the illusion of knowing these human beings, otherwise distant and anonymous to readers in the West who would without Nafisi remain senseless to these dignified lives, lived in an almost airless space.  Each of her girls becomes familiar in this way: Mitra ... Sanaz ... Nassrin ... Azin.  The endlessly accomodating Mrs. Rezvan gives a face and a voice to every decent person who adjusts to the ceaseless parade of small insanities that tyranny foists upon people who in a better time would do the right thing most of the time.  The blind censor seems a satirical overshooting until one realizes that Nafisi is deadly serious and this caricature all too real.  `My magician' stands out as the unnamed secular sage through whose common sense Nafisi discovers her own mind.  So, one is shocked yet somehow not entirely surprised when, near the end, Nafisi questions herself about her interlocutor in this way:<br /><br />'Since I left Iran, respecting his wishes, I have not talked or written to my magician, but his magic has been so much a part of my life that sometimes I ask myself, Was he ever real?  Did I invent him? Did he invent me?'<br /><br />But that is giving away the end of Nafisi's tale, or at least the end of what she has told us thus far.  Her eventual departure from the Islamic Republic is foreshadowed by her stunning description of the day she `became irrelevant'.<br /><br />For anyone who has ever doubted that `great books' possess the power to interpret events and epochs, this book is a suitable antidote.  Like a cloister of monks keeping the candle of learning alive in a Dark Age's cave, Nafisi, her magician, and her girls discover in the imagination of enduring words a point of reference that at the same time critiques the theocracy's dank oppression and allows its captors to remain something more than victims.<br /><br />Nafisi's narrative from time to time flirts with self-absorption, each time escaping by way of the moral authority that comes from small decisions of non-conformity and the humble graces that preserve humanity against a regime that would asphyxiate it in God's name.  This flirtation is a mere pecadillo when read against theatrocities and mindless denial that form its backdrop, and we might not have this book were it not for the author's inward turning and descriptive prowess.  Her description of a sensuous Persian dance is breathtaking; it is even more awesome that such appreciation could survive the Republic's monotonous denial of all that enlivens the senses.<br /><br />By writing Reading Lolita, Nafisi has clung to something that might rather have been stripped from her hand.  Let us call it `created human imagination', that capacity to stand against official denial of human longing for freedom and the opportunity to create a life of one's own choosing.<br /><br />The audio version of this book is read by South African-born Lisette Lecat, the narrative voice of a decade, perhaps even of a generation.nd we might not have this book were it not for the author's inward turning and descriptive prowess.  Her description of a sensuous Persian dance is breathtaking; it is even more awesome that such appreciation could survive the Republic's monotonous denial of all that enlivens the senses.    By writing Reading Lolita, Nafisi has clung to something that might rather have been stripped from her hand.  Let us call it `created human imagination', that capacity to stand against official denial of human longing for freedom and the opportunity to create a life of one's own choosing.    The audio version of this book is read by South African-born Lisette Lecat, the narrative voice of a decade, perhaps even of a generation.	2005-07-25
US	47099824	R3DNCQA1VAZB78	1565630904	392048050	Language and Imagery in the Old Testament	Books	4	5	5	N	N	helpful introduction to the Bible as literature	Even if John C.L. Gibson admits that the OT is \\"capable of causing not a little embarrassment to the two religions which have adopted it as their Scriptures\\", he finds it also \\"seductive\\", \\"moving\\" and \\"illuminating\\".  His little book is meant to guide the reader to fuller appreciation of the latter qualities and in this he must be judged to have succeeded.  His first of seven well-written chapters, entitled \\"The Energies of the Hebrew Language\\", presents the lack of abstract terms and the linking together of clauses by \\"and\\" as the \\"two basic characteristics of biblical Hebrew.\\"  The picture is filled out by several not unimportant features: prominence of direct speech, cosmological descriptions of heaven and Sheol, the extravagance of Semitic address, folk etymologies, figurative language, hyperbole, personalisation, irony, et al.  Throughout this chapter Gibson indicates the considerable distance which separates theological language from that of the OT.<br /><br />In ch. two (\\"Language about God in the Old Testament\\"), Gibson approaches the (non-)problem of anthropomorphism by way of the recognition that all theology is metaphorical.  Faced with such incautious expression, the point is to understand rather than to approve.  A discussion of the incomparability of Yahweh (closer to heno- than mono-theism) rounds out the chapter.  Full-blown monotheistic statements such as Isa 43.10 represent \\"the exaggeration of faith\\" rather than systematic theology, since so much of the OT refuses to evacuate creation of other \\"theologically real\\" gods.<br /><br />Ch. three (\\"The Rhetoric of Hebrew Prose Writing\\") asks us \\"Why Prose?\\", a question occasioned by the paucity of ANE precedent.  En route to a tentative answer in terms of narrative theology, Gibson guides us through such features as composite authorship, reticence, the resonance of key words, and characterisation by what the protagonists say, here and there pausing to criticise the \\"fissiparous tendencies\\" of \\"excavatory scholarship\\", too full of sources and too deaf to accomplished story-telling.<br /><br />After sketching out the basics of metre and parallelism, ch. four (\\"The Rhetoric and Melodies of Hebrew Poetry\\") explains and illustrates the rhetoric of judgement, comfort, praise, lament, confident wisdom, and questioning wisdom.  Gibson allows us his own evaluation of aspects of biblical poetry, whether this be his appraisal of Proverbs (\\"too smug by half\\"), his suggestion that Christian poetry is more preoccupied with sin and confession than that of the Psalms, or his traditional conclusion that Job's \\"redeemer\\" (19.23ff.) must be God himself.<br /><br />Gibson's ch. five (\\"The Rhetoric of Hebrew Myth\\") mounts an apology for the genre, whether its toned-down priestly variety in Gen 2 or the less restrained mythic voice of the psalms and prophets.  Israel's mythology has points of contact with that of her neighbours, but Israel's experience of God in her own history produced a unique \\"standard of judgement\\".  Gibson's reading of the second Yahweh speech in Job is an illuminating attempt to beat back the modernisers and rescue this divine soliloquy for the genre.<br /><br />The second half of the book's title becomes the focus of its last two chapters (six, \\"Images of God\\"; seven, \\"Images of Humanity\\").  Sustaining the point that images-like all God-talk-are metaphorical and suggestive, Gibson cites texts which illustrate the principal ones (king, judge, father [and mother], redeemer, et al.).  Refusing to be drawn in theological directions-though perhaps not entirely-Gibson concludes that such images tell us how Israel conceived of God, not how he is in himself: \\"The time for knowing him is not yet, but in another life.\\"  Similarly in his discussion of human imagery (e.g. \\"knowledge of good and evil\\", \\"human creatureliness\\"), Gibson's avowedly empirical survey of OT language and imagery ends with an expression of the chastened faith which this literature so often evokes (p. 154).	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R45JZTYKZZLBX	0852442084	954642160	Holy War in Ancient Israel	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	an old standard on a perennially important topic	Von Rad's venerable and seminal treatment of the topic, now made available in an inexpensive reprint, is considerably enhanced for modern readers by B.C. Ollenburger's introductory essay, 'Gerhard von Rad's Theory of Holy War.'  This version of what has become a classic point of departure for studies of warfare and the Divine Warrior figure in the Old Testament' is further complemented by J.E. Sanderson's 'War, Peace, and Justice in the Hebrew Bible: A Representative Bibliography.'  Approaching the topic with an ethical concern that is not given broad expression in Von Rad's monograph, Sanderson appends her annotated bibliography 'as a contribution to the advancement of peace' from the pen of 'someone with a lifelong fascination for the Bible as well as a commitment to peacemaking.'<br /><br />Thus framed, this new publication of von Rad's Holy War in English displays both the virtue and the vulnerability that characterise a theory that 'seemingly accounts for everything', as Ollenburger assesses.  His introductory essay places von Rad in the historical context of the discussion about war in the Old Testament, something von Rad's sparsely footnoted monograph itself did not take pains to achieve.<br /><br />The substance of von Rad's argument requires no comment.  From the vantage point of Old Testament studies at the present juncture, von Rad's description of how an ancient idea and practice was appropriated and reappropriated within circles whose ideological habits were markedly distinct from those of its origin, is undertaken with sometimes breathtaking confidence.  His characteristic attention to the institutions in which this occurred undergirds a reconstruction of the history of Holy War that has demanded an accounting from all subsequent writers on the topic.  This fine new presentation, marred only by recurrent errors in Hebrew quotation, returns an old standard to easy accessibility.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R26FSTKAEZ85DL	0664252672	924357548	Job (Westminster Bible Companion)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	a preacher looks at an enigmatic biblical book	An emeritus professor of homiletics introduces Job in this study guide, which belongs to a series that is intended to help the church's laity read the Bible more clearly and intelligently. Wharton mentions issues that occupy academic scholars only where these are deemed to illuminate the reading of the book's final form.  The guide's introduction treats the book's function, structure, the names of God in Job, and the concept of Job as the Lord's servant (Nebucha\drezzar appears for Cyrus in his mention of Isa 45).  In his exposition, 'hassatan' of the prologue is not God's archenemy of later theology, but his denial that disinterested piety exists may be 'satanic'. It is hinted that the relationship between prologue, epilogue, and the poetic centre may be explained by a reworking of a pre-existing and simplistic Job tale, one which in its original form would have satisfied the certainties of Job's counsellors.  The poetic reworking forcefully rewrites the story as a challenge to religious truisms.  Because the wisdom of Job's friends has deep roots in Jewish and Christian piety, Wharton attempts a sympathetic hearing of Eliphaz by allowing him to develop his argument in chs 4-5, 15, and 22 without the interruption of Job's responses and other interlocutions.  The nine basic elements of Eliphaz' case are at home in the piety of Judaism and Christianity.<br /><br />Wharton is especially attentive to the friends' 'panic-ridden anxiety about one's own precious theological maxims' and to Job's insistence upon speaking to God rather than about him, whether or not he is motivated by the theological rhetoric of Job's gang of counsellors. The book of Job does not provide answers to the questions it raises, instead driving its readers 'to use all the resources of biblical faith to find some alternative ways of relating the reality of God to the realities of human experience.'<br /><br />The shape of Wharton's intended readership motivates him to linger over the famous 'redeemer' passage at 19.25.  Even if these words 'have simply achieved a life of their own in the heart-language of Christian faith, and that language is not finally subject to correction by technical exegesis', echoes of Handel's rendering of this passage express 'our faith ... not the faith of Job.'  Job, in contrast to Handel's proto-Christian seer, desires a go'el because he 'has otherwise despaired of achieving such a fair hearing before God on his own.'<br /><br />The breakdown of established patterns in chs 24-27 is neatly surveyed.  The 'confusing dissonance rather than a clear resolution' that results is owing to the 'hopeless scrambled' nature of the text, a circumstance which occurred, 'whether deliberately or inadvertently, somewhere in the process of copying, preserving, editing, and transmitting the text.'  The epilogue is not a  resettling upon the ancient truisms, but a profound challenge to both Job and his friends.<br /><br />Wharton's exegesis throughout ably brokers the scholarly discussion for the discerning practitioner.9.25.  Even if these words 'have simply achieved a life of their own in the heart-language of Christian faith, and that language is not finally subject to correction by technical exegesis', echoes of Handel's rendering of this passage express 'our faith ... not the faith of Job.'  Job, in contrast to Handel's proto-Christian seer, desires a go'el because he 'has otherwise despaired of achieving such a fair hearing before God on his own.'    The breakdown of established patterns in chs 24-27 is neatly surveyed.  The 'confusing dissonance rather than a clear resolution' that results is owing to the 'hopeless scrambled' nature of the text, a circumstance which occurred, 'whether deliberately or inadvertently, somewhere in the process of copying, preserving, editing, and transmitting the text.'  The epilogue is not a  resettling upon the ancient truisms, but a profound challenge to both Job and his friends.    Wharton's exegesis throughout ably brokers the scholarly discussion for the discerning practitioner.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	RLB7S9JRUMBBR	0664223699	802371455	Reading Isaiah: Poetry and Vision	Books	3	10	10	N	N	explicit methodology, for good and for ill	Perhaps it requires a breakdown of certainties and 'assured results' like the one that has reigned in Isaiah studies for two decades to produce a book like this.  In the wake of a century of historical reconstruction of the stages by which the book of Isaiah is alleged to have grown, Peter Quinn-Miscall is very clear about what he feels we do not know.  His 'new way' of reading Isaiah is meant to allow readers to make their own decisions about the ambiguities and contradictions which he believes characterise this long and eminently quotable Old Testament book.<br /><br />The author is keen to ask questions rather than provide answers.  Indeed four of his five chapters have questions as their title.  The first of these ('What Is the Book of Isaiah?') surveys the landscape of the historical periods involved, of Isaiah's imagination, and of scholars' treatment of the book.  The author is unfailingly self-conscious in his methodological clarity: 'I do not employ...', 'I will not thereby be taking a stand...', and similar expressions spell out clearly what he does and does not intend to do.  He consistently keeps his promises.  'Isaiah' is shorthand for 'the book as we have it', since Quinn-Miscall's approach forbids him approving or disapproving scholarly reconstructions of just which words belong to the eight-century prophet and which do not.<br /><br />The author is concerned with themes (Chapter Two: 'What Does Isaiah Think?') and how these themes are expressed in images in the `grand, unified poem' which he takes Isaiah to be (Chapter Three: 'What Does Isaiah Imagine?').  Contrary to more traditional criticism, he is not concerned with how these features may vary across historical or literary layers of the text.  As a result, he is free to quote the book extensively, without reference to the context in which the passages he cites are found.  This is at once a useful and a discomfiting feature of his work.  On the one hand, it collects expressions about a given theme (say, 'Justice and Righteousness') in one handy location, where Quinn-Miscall provides helpful explanation about it.  Sometimes this comment bears remarkable similarity to observations `pre-critical' scholars used to make-and conservative scholars still do in circles where unity of authorship is stressed-about their quite different 'Isaiah'.  On the other, one suspects that Quinn-Miscall's 'Isaiah' sounds a little too much like a 21st-century post-modern aesthete: 'Isaiah writes a book that mixes and presents all of these different aspects in a constantly shifting style ... I call this diversity Isaiah's encyclopedic quality.  When Isaiah treats a topic, he looks at it from many sides and considers a variety of the connotations and implications of these many sides.'  One needn't be a cheerleader for unfettered historical reconstruction or a monotone chanter of prediction and fulfilment to wonder whether Isaiah and those who passed on his prophetic burden weren't getting at something rather more specific and perturbing than that.<br /><br />The same is true of the author's treatment of imagery.  His method is to lay out a group of Isaiah passages which utilise similar imagery, a helpful arrangement for readers who want a survey of the riches that are worked and reworked in Isaiah's book.  True to form, Quinn-Miscall is doing exactly what he has promised us: 'I am not presenting this as the only way to approach Isaianic imagery ... Readers can begin with this and then develop their own ways of dealing with the imagery and indeed with other aspects of Isaiah.'  One must congratulate rather than fault a writer for accomplishing his objective.<br /><br />Still, the method does not escape some inherent weaknesses.  In particular, this is visible when Quinn-Miscall attributes motive to Isaiah's presentation.  Isaiah is 'a vision of the variety of ways in which the relations of God's ways and human ways can display themselves across time and across cultures.'  Such mixingof images 'illustrates Isaiah's desire to be inclusive'.  But is inclusiveness really the prophet's-or the book's-intention?<br /><br />The author's decision not to consider historical depth in his reading of Isaiah unnecessarily flattens the book.  The result is that Isaiah's remarkable recycling of images, rich with irony and hope, becomes a mere presentation of various ways that God and people behave.  Recent work in Isaiah that attempts to trace the various uses of the same image (for example, reversal of the blindness and deafness theme in the second part of the book) is more helpful in this regard, for it pays attention to the drama of human rebellion, divine threat, punishment by exile, and merciful restoration.  In such an approach, the images do indeed shift, but not as in the simple beauty of a kaleidoscope's turn.  Rather, images heavy with judgement in the early chapters eventually become vehicles of hope as the Lord beings chastisement of his nation to an end and awakens his despondent people with fresh mercy.  All of this takes time, which is to say, history.<br /><br />In his fourth chapter ('Who Speaks and Who Acts in Isaiah?'), Quinn-Miscall illuminates the reader's path by profiling the protagonists of the book.  I found this chapter helpful, because observations about ambiguity ('Who is speaking here and to whom?') are now taken a step further, in an attempt to see whether the absence of the clarity one might seek is purposeful rather than just there.  For example, Quinn-Miscall affirms that our inability to discern when God is speaking and when his prophet is holding forth tells us something important about the nature of prophecy itself.<br /><br />Still, the method he utilises sometimes dissolves the history-borne pathos of the book into general truths which do little to explain why such an ambitious project as the book of Isaiah was undertaken in the first place: 'In this vision we encounter one prophet named Isaiah who is an exemplar of the mission of reporting and interpreting the divine word, but who in many ways is supplanted by other notions of what a prophet is.'  'Assyria symbolizes anyone employed as a divine instrument and also the proud and haughty.'  There is succour for the reader of a long, complicated biblical book in Quinn-Miscall's counsel that `flat, one-dimensional characters' like Assyria are 'types, symbols of a particular attribute or fate'.  However, one misses a further word about the excruciating fact of Assyrian hegemony or a note regarding what in particular made this character such a relentless memory in the reflections of Old Testament Israel.<br /><br />In his final chapter ('The Lord's Holy Mountain'), Quinn-Miscall presents his reading of the principal 'messianic' material in Isaiah.  He underscores the idyllic imagery of future hope, while eschewing attempts to find subsequent individuals or groups who fit the description.  In a manner that has particular value for readers familiar only with the interpretation of such texts afforded by the New Testament and Christian tradition, Quinn-Miscall calls attention to the surprisingly small role played by kings in this imagery.<br /><br />This well-written book accomplishes what its author has set out to do.  Quinn-Miscall has provided a concise and informative survey of the themes and imagery of Isaiah.  As a primer for new readers of Isaiah and a refresher course for veterans, its worth is palpable.  One will look elsewhere for interpretative depth, theological weight, or insight into the forces that provoked the composition of such a book.  The author himself reminds us of what we may expect: 'I ask questions and provide no sure answers.'desire to be inclusive'.  But is inclusiveness really the prophet's-or the book's-intention?      The author's decision not to consider historical depth in his reading of Isaiah unnecessarily flattens the book.  The result is that Isaiah's remarkable recycling of images, rich with irony and hope, becomes a mere presentation of various ways that God and people behave.  Recent work in Isaiah that attempts to trace the various uses of the same image (for example, reversal of the blindness and deafness theme in the second part of the book) is more helpful in this regard, for it pays attention to the drama of human rebellion, divine threat, punishment by exile, and merciful restoration.   In such an approach, the images do indeed shift, but not as in the simple beauty of a kaleidoscope's turn.  Rather, images heavy with judgement in the early chapters eventually become vehicles of hope as the Lord beings chastisement of his nation to an end and awakens his despondent people with fresh mercy.  All of this takes time, which is to say, history.    In his fourth chapter ('Who Speaks and Who Acts in Isaiah?'), Quinn-Miscall illuminates the reader's path by profiling the protagonists of the book.  I found this chapter helpful, because observations about ambiguity ('Who is speaking here and to whom?') are now taken a step further, in an attempt to see whether the absence of the clarity one might seek is purposeful rather than just there.  For example, Quinn-Miscall affirms that our inability to discern when God is speaking and when his prophet is holding forth tells us something important about the nature of prophecy itself.    Still, the method he utilises sometimes dissolves the history-borne pathos of the book into general truths which do little to explain why such an ambitious project as the book of Isaiah was undertaken in the first place: 'In this vision we encounter one prophet named Isaiah who is an exemplar of the mission of reporting and interpreting the divine word,but who in many ways is supplanted by other notions of what a prophet is.'  'Assyria symbolizes anyone employed as a divine instrument and also the proud and haughty.'  There is succour for the reader of a long, complicated biblical book in Quinn-Miscall's counsel that `flat, one-dimensional characters' like Assyria are 'types, symbols of a particular attribute or fate'.  However, one misses a further word about the excruciating fact of Assyrian hegemony or a note regarding what in particular made this character such a relentless memory in the reflections of Old Testament Israel.    In his final chapter ('The Lord's Holy Mountain'), Quinn-Miscall presents his reading of the principal 'messianic' material in Isaiah.  He underscores the idyllic imagery of future hope, while eschewing attempts to find subsequent individuals or groups who fit the description.  In a manner that has particular value for readers familiar only with the interpretation of such texts afforded by the New Testament and Christian tradition, Quinn-Miscall calls attention to the surprisingly small role played by kings in this imagery.     This well-written book accomplishes what its author has set out to do.   Quinn-Miscall has provided a concise and informative survey of the themes and imagery of Isaiah.  As a primer for new readers of Isaiah and a refresher course for veterans, its worth is palpable.  One will look elsewhere for interpretative depth, theological weight, or insight into the forces that provoked the composition of such a book.  The author himself reminds us of what we may expect: 'I ask questions and provide no sure answers.'	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R3DVW27OKDSF8C	0664222633	1410409	Reading Biblical Narrative: An Introductory Guide	Books	3	15	16	N	N	methodological precision for readers of biblical narrative	This book is meant to teach people to 'read with understanding'.  It accomplishes its objective by inviting its reader to go back over the same biblical narratives numerous times, viewing the text through a different lens on each visit.  One is trained to seek out each story's hero, a concept that is linked to the notion of quest (the effort to solve a problem).  Fokkelman believes that the distance separating us from the biblical stories is not to be feared, since a well-written story will 'come into its own' when it meets an attentive reader.  The book places the concepts and nomenclature of narratology in the hands of the Bible reader, whose subjectivity is not to be lamented.  Rather, it is the sphere in which he encounters the text's art.  Meaning is conferred in the interplay of the reader who bestows it and the text which in some sense 'has' it.<br /><br />A skilful narrator uses both 'narrative' and 'narrated' time.  That narrator is a pose, an attitude, omniscient and anonymous, indeed a veritable ringmaster, a master over characters whose truth may or may not be that of the narrator himself, a puppeteer manipulating his characters and his readers 'who hardly knows when to stop'.  In this narratalogical world, even God is a character who answers to the narrator's sovereign whim.  It is our responsibility to ferret out the storyteller's ideology by means of the way he intervenes in his stories to provide information and description.<br /><br />Fokkelman returns time and again to the genius of a good narrator, who by selecting elements of action and passion constructs a plot that enables us to detect its hero and that hero's quest.  The way he structures a narrative-astutely employing time and space, entrances and exits-allows him to conceal his values where the well-trained (and structuralist?) reader will find the treasure.  The narrator himself is a veteran of 'extensive training' in exploiting multiple forms of repetition, with their varying degrees of similarity and contrast.<br /><br />The narrator also controls the flow of knowledge, manipulating the points of view his characters are permitted to disclose and thus shaping the menu of perspectives which his readers might choose to assume.  Usually he is stingy with his own viewpoint and values, which may or may not match those of God, as the narrator perceives them.  The narrator's work may be complemented at the level of act, cycle, and longer prose compositions by that of one or more editors, though Fokkelman appears to treat both of these literary actors under the rubric of the narrator.  Certainly, the editor-also anonymous-is every bit as intentional about his purpose as the narrator, a feature which allows us to enjoy good books as well as good stories.<br /><br />Fokkelman dedicates one chapter to exploring the 'collaboration' of prose and poetry, a topic which hints at his subsequent Reading Biblical Poetry.  After establishing what differentiates the two forms of discourse, Fokkelman alleges that the hybrid style of the biblical writer 'relativizes, or even mocks and annihilates the distinction'.  A penultimate chapter extends the 'main questions of narratology' to the New Testament's synoptic gospels.  A final chapter offers helpfully suggestive questions for a reader to ask of is text, together with suggestions for further study.<br /><br />Though this book is not the kind of easy read that its title might suggest, it is a worthwhile and occasionally unsettling book for the biblical critic.  In the course of his descriptions, Fokkelman treats us to various masterful readings (for example, of the Gideon story, pp. 126-130).  He underscores his fascination with the biblical narrator and his negative views regarding historical-critical praxis, convictions that do not escape a certain irony.  For example, after rather severely limiting the space in which the text's and writer's intention may be taken into account, Fokkelman ascribes to the narrator a far more sophisticated intentionality than even those scholars whom he critiques normally allow.  As for the reader, Fokkelman uses morally-charged language to refer to that person's labour (for example, his 'duty', p. 117; the need to 'perform our task correctly', p. 146; the counsel, 'Do not be tempted to speculate on \\"how it really was,\\" there and then, so far away and so long ago, in that utterly alien culture', p. 207)  Indeed, his chapter on the New Testament ends with the rhetorical question, 'What exactly is the difference between disciple and reader?'<br /><br />There is no doubt but that the biblical narrator is the hero of Fokkelman's story.  Careful reading of this book will provide fresh insight into that person's craft, quest, and product.even those scholars whom he critiques normally allow.  As for the reader, Fokkelman uses morally-charged language to refer to that person's labour (for example, his 'duty', p. 117; the need to 'perform our task correctly', p. 146; the counsel, 'Do not be tempted to speculate on \\"how it really was,\\" there and then, so far away and so long ago, in that utterly alien culture', p. 207)  Indeed, his chapter on the New Testament ends with the rhetorical question, 'What exactly is the difference between disciple and reader?'    There is no doubt but that the biblical narrator is the hero of Fokkelman's story.  Careful reading of this book will provide fresh insight into that person's craft, quest, and product.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	RVYE9TC9BJ5VX	0800615611	129708213	The Old Testament of the Old Testament (Overtures to Biblical Theology)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	an underrated work by a first-rate Old Testament theologian	The republication of Moberly's 1992 study in an accessible paperback provides a further look at this textually-focussed work of Old Testament theology at a time when the reconfiguration within Pentateuchal studies has had another decade to run it course.  The 'revelations of the divine name' in Exodus chapters three and six are key texts for classical Pentateuchal criticism.  It is there that such an approach to the text finds one of the most notorious disjunctions between the 'Yahwist' source, on the one hand, and the 'Elohist' and 'Priestly' sources, on the other.<br /><br />Moberly argues, against the most common critical construction of Pentateuchal sources, that all the identifiable Pentateuchal traditions assume a 'cleavage' between the time of the Patriarchs and that of Mosaic religion.  For the narrator of the Exodus stories, the fathers did not know the deity as 'YHWH'.  Far from a mere peculiarity of E and, more formally, of P, this affirmation is presupposed by J as well.<br /><br />In 'God's Self-Disclosure as YHWH' (pp. 5-35), Moberly argues that due attention to the `context of the storyteller' shows the narratives to be developed from the perspective of 'Mosaic Yahwism', thus the language employed is 'redolent with presupposition and overtone.' If Sinai is 'the mount of God', this statement ought not to be historicized in the direction of theories of prior divine presence (e.g. the Kenite hypothesis) but rather read as the descriptive accent of a narrator who spoke from within a full-blown Yahwism for which Sinai and Zion had become, quintessentially, God's mountains.  Even if Moses does not initially know that it is YHWH who is calling him, the narrator does, and he expects that his readers will be similarly apprised.  Moberly links this name revelation directly to the issues and objections occasioned by the call of Moses.  It was not so much a revelation to Israel, but rather a response to the reluctant Moses, the archetypal prophet, who urgently needed to know.  For Moberly, the whole of Exodus 3 (and later chapter 6) is narrative theology; attention to the narrator's theology is thus appropriate and, perhaps, a sine qua non of productive interpretation.  Chapter six tells a story similar to chapter three, this time in the light of Moses' initial disappointment following his first encounter with Pharaoh.  We are not reading P's version of what E placed before us in ch. 3.  Rather, this is the second instalment of a sequence, a position that is perhaps less remarkable than it was at first writing, when Cross, Van Seters, and Rendtorff could be presented without further ado as exponents of a 'minority view'.  Here, Moberly finds Moses treated as archetypal priest, alongside his clearer prophetic role.  Chapter six presumes chapter three, and complements it.  The emphasis in both lies on continuity with God's activity among the patriarchs, but the revelation of his precise name is a novelty.<br /><br />For Moberly, the crux regarding the pervasive use of the name YHWH throughout Genesis is resolved by the simple fact of Yahwistic story-tellers narrating pre-Yahwistic tales from within their own religious context.  The critical consensus needlessly complicates matters by presuming that the Pentateuch sources are in conflict regarding the revelation of that name.  The persistence of `Elohim' in patriarchal stories shows that the Yahwistic narrator took seriously the origin of those tales in an earlier time; conversely, the intrusion of 'YHWH' in those same tales highlights the perspective of the narrator.  In his discussion of alternative approaches, Moberly stands by the reality of lengthy tradition-history, while doubting-with Whybray et al.-that we are in a position to produce detailed reconstruction of that history.  At a minimum, we have grounds to suppose that the Pentateuchal storytellers employed their craft according to 'the practice common to many cultures of retelling stories the content and wording ofwhich were not yet fixed but were open to molding and development by the storyteller.'<br /><br />In 'The Religion of the Patriarchs' (pp. 79-104), Moberly looks to patriarchal religion to confirm or refute what he takes as the view, consistent in the Pentateuchal sources, that pre-Mosaic religion was of a distinct order from its successor.  Confirmation ensues, because Moberly finds that a coherent view of patriarchal practice commingles with the diverse nature of the literature.  Its features are briefly described, resulting in a sketch of pre-Mosaic religion characterised by its 'open, unstructured, and nonlocated unagressive nature, its \\"ecumenical bonhomie\\".'<br /><br />Moberly's principal theological contribution takes shape in a lengthy fourth chapter ('The Old Testament of the Old Testament', pp. 105-146), the title of which does double duty for the book itself.  A survey of those reconstructions of religious history on the basis of Exodus 3 and 6 that were carried out by Wellhausen, Alt, Gottwald, Cross, et al., alleges a dismissive attitude towards 'the theological concerns of Exodus 3 and 6 (which) may actually represent the common tradition of all pentateuchal writers'.  Moberly argues that the texts speak most coherently when they are allowed to assume two distinct periods when God spoke in different ways, in analogy with the distinctives and commonalities found in the Old and New Testaments.  As Christians 'approach' the Old Testament from the New, so one may 'approach' patriarchal religion from Mosaic Yahwism.  The notion of 'dispensations' allows a later reader (or biblical writer) to view the behaviour and presentation of a previous dispensation from within a conviction that his later view has become normative, while not requiring of earlier characters the same behaviours that have become commandments in his own day.<br /><br />Two final chapters ('The Old Testament and Jewish-Christian Dialogue', 147-175, and 'Paradigms for Pentateuchal Criticism', 176-202) draw out some implications of Moberly's thesis for the topics to which they refer.  Particularly in the case of criticism of the Pentateuch, a decade of intense scholarly activity since the original publication of Moberly's book has barely sufficed for 'dissatisfied scholars' to make a start in offering alternatives to 'the burden of the documentary hypothesis', either along Moberly's provocative lines or alternatives to them.ixed but were open to molding and development by the storyteller.'    In 'The Religion of the Patriarchs' (pp. 79-104), Moberly looks to patriarchal religion to confirm or refute what he takes as the view, consistent in the Pentateuchal sources, that pre-Mosaic religion was of a distinct order from its successor.  Confirmation ensues, because Moberly finds that a coherent view of patriarchal practice commingles with the diverse nature of the literature.  Its features are briefly described, resulting in a sketch of pre-Mosaic religion characterised by its 'open, unstructured, and nonlocated unagressive nature, its \\"ecumenical bonhomie\\".'    Moberly's principal theological contribution takes shape in a lengthy fourth chapter ('The Old Testament of the Old Testament', pp. 105-146), the title of which does double duty for the book itself.  A survey of those reconstructions of religious history on the basis of Exodus 3 and 6 that were carried out by Wellhausen, Alt, Gottwald, Cross, et al., alleges a dismissive attitude towards 'the theological concerns of Exodus 3 and 6 (which) may actually represent the common tradition of all pentateuchal writers'.  Moberly argues that the texts speak most coherently when they are allowed to assume two distinct periods when God spoke in different ways, in analogy with the distinctives and commonalities found in the Old and New Testaments.  As Christians 'approach' the Old Testament from the New, so one may 'approach' patriarchal religion from Mosaic Yahwism.  The notion of 'dispensations' allows a later reader (or biblical writer) to view the behaviour and presentation of a previous dispensation from within a conviction that his later view has become normative, while not requiring of earlier characters the same behaviours that have become commandments in his own day.    Two final chapters ('The Old Testament and Jewish-Christian Dialogue', 147-175, and 'Paradigms for Pentateuchal Criticism', 176-202) draw out some implications of Moberly's thesis for the topics to which they refer.  Particularly in the case of criticism of the Pentateuch, a decade of intense scholarly activity since the original publication of Moberly's book has barely sufficed for 'dissatisfied scholars' to make a start in offering alternatives to 'the burden of the documentary hypothesis', either along Moberly's provocative lines or alternatives to them.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R2EMDXQYT0K6US	1565633636	293786362	Inspiration and Authority: Nature and Function of Christian Scripture	Books	5	26	28	N	N	sensible and impassioned erudition	Nearly two decades after initial publication under a different title, this lightly revised and expanded second edition renews Paul Achtemeier's irenic arbitration of a discussion which tends in more acerbic directions.  In seven accessible chapters, he seeks to understand how the Bible is different.<br /><br />After a brief apologia for the study, chapter 1 ('Locus and Mode of Inspiration') tries to locate the phenomenon we call 'inspiration'.  Seeking a point of departure on which all Christian readers can agree, Achtemeier treats claims for inspiration as a way of saying that the Bible continues to speak to readers today as it has spoken to readers in the past.  From that modest agreement, however, the paths quickly lead us in divergent directions, for it is more problematic to state exactly how the voice of Scripture continues to be heard.<br /><br />Without saying so at this early stage, Achtemeier is drawing us towards examination of the common assumption that an individual author is responsible for each biblical book, and therefore that the manner in which inspiration was experienced by that person is among the most pressing of questions.  This view of inspiration depends upon the analogy of how a prophet receives revelation.  Eventually, Achtemeier will argue that the results of modern biblical criticism oblige us to abandon so individualistic a conception.<br /><br />Achtemeier sketches two historical lines of approach to inspiration: 'inspired authors' and 'inspired content', usefully pausing now and again to identify ancient and modern proponents of each Tendenz. Indeed, one of the main contributions of his approach is to help the modern reader to perceive that Christians have from the beginnings of the faith struggled with what sometimes appears to be a merely modern problem.<br /><br />Achtemeier argues that the Greek notion of the 'possession' of poets and prophets-whether or not this means that the possessed individual cedes control of his faculties-was taken over in Jewish and early Christian circles to explain the phenomenon of sacred Scripture, persisting in its effects well into the Reformation, where it was argued that authorship by a prophet is the very sign and seal that a given book is inspired.<br /><br />The other view-though not necessarily antagonistic to the former one-holds that inspiration has its locus in the words of scripture rather than the prophetic person who wrote them down.  For Achtemeier, this inclination culminates in dictation theories found in Protestant Scholasticism, wherein the emphasis is on the entire inerrancy of the product, whether or not the prophet responsible for it fully understood its meaning.<br /><br />Lying behind this historic debate are attitudes to certainty and how this is to be achieved by the believer.  Does the work of faith depend upon a knowledge that is publicly verifiable and immune to doubt?  And what must be said of the relationship between revelation and inspiration?  Does revelation reside principally in the saving events (the Exodus, the death and resurrection of Jesus, etc.) to which the Bible is a witness?  Or does revelation, rather, find its locus in the words of Scripture themselves?<br /><br />By using the terms 'liberal' and 'conservative' as short-hand for distinct approaches to biblical inspiration, Achtemeier assumes the inevitable risk of over-simplification in the pursuit of clarity (ch. 2, 'Two Contemporary Views Considered').  The liberal method emphasises the human origins and cultural contexts of Scripture, elements which at every term have left their stamp upon the literature.  Turning to evaluation, Achtemeier concedes that the liberal view resolves the tension produced by contradictions and the appearance of degrees of 'quality' within the biblical text.  However, he is critical of what he sees as the dilution of the concept of biblical authority which this view urges, placing the burden of discernment entirely on the undeserving shoulders of modern culture.  The relative brevity of his treatment of the liberal view, combined with his forthright affirmation that it is finally 'not adequate for either public or private spiritual life', may well suggest that Achtemeier has written his little book to enlighten the conservative reader rather than to persuade the liberal one.<br /><br />His far lengthier and sharply critical treatment of the conservative position equates 'conservative' with 'inerrantist', a levelling that forcibly excludes more nuanced 'conservative' positions, of which there are many.  Whilst Achtemeier appreciates the motives of the conservative reader, he is merciless in sketching the absurdities of harmonisation which he believes the consistent inerrantist is bound to practise.  In the end, he claims, the conservative approach produces a 'dislocation of the true center of concern' by diverting attention 'from the Bible's witness about God's saving acts to questions about the precise accuracy of minor details'.<br /><br />His point, however, is not to reduce both positions to a vapid moral equivalency, but to demonstrate that they share a common dependence upon the individualistic,  prophetic model of inspiration, a presupposition which modern critical scholarship-here the adjectives 'liberal' and 'conservative' are withheld-renders untenable.<br /><br />Nonetheless, Achtemeier is  concerned to show that both conservatives and 'critical scholars' construct hypotheses to guide their reading of biblical texts.  Both 'go behind the text', either to harmonise its details (conservatives) or to trace its historical development (critical scholars).  The burden of his third chapter ('How the Scriptures Were Formed') is to demonstrate that 'critical assumptions are truer both to the nature and to the intention of Scripture' than those utilised by conservatives.<br /><br />Critical investigation shows that biblical texts have historical depth.  They dynamically use old materials in new ways, collecting and interpreting traditions in order to maintain their relevance for ever new situations.  Indeed, Achtemeier undergirds his thesis with a theological point: God is the God of the future and is able to renew prior revelation in redemptive ways.  Indeed, '(i)t is precisely those figures in biblical literature who find their certainty in the traditions from the past who with alarming regularity find themselves opposed to the will and word of God.'  There is a payoff for Christian faith in all of this, for the communal dynamics that produced Scripture are in some way-Achtemeier does not yet define just how-exemplary for modern Christian life: 'In some way or other, our understanding of inspiration must reckon with the interrelation of community and Scripture, as well as with the continuing process of reinterpretation imposed on scriptural traditions by the theological reflections of the communities whose life is mirrored in those writings.'<br /><br />Achtemeier makes much of the point that the biblical literature has theological rather than historical intentions.  He might have paused to caution us that the Christian tradition has usually laboured to avoid any unnecessary cleavage between 'history' and 'theology', rarely having considered them to be mutually exclusive options. Having made clear his preference for critical assumptions over conservative ones, the sometimes pejorative term 'liberal' drops out of Achtemeier's discussion.  It might appear that he has simply exercised a preference for the term 'critical' and that he is arguing for the superiority of a position that can be called either 'liberal' or 'critical' indifferently.<br /><br />He soon makes clear that this is not the case ('Chapter 4: Problems Old and New') and therein lies the chief virtue of this book for readers of Themelios.  For Achtemeier, the liberal understanding of Scripture begins with the phenomena of Scripture but 'is in the end also defeated by them.'  If conservatives err by deifying Scripture over against its own claims for itself, liberals have no real alternative, for they have levelled Scripture and all other literature and so have 'abandoned any final sense of Scripture's authority'.  More often than not, we are told, liberal scholars simply leave off speaking about the matter of inspiration altogether.  For Achtemeier, neither approach will do.<br /><br />Failure for both camps lies in their adherence to a prophetic model.  Neither has correctly defined the 'locus of inspiration', a task which Achtemeier undertakes forthwith.  He has signalled clearly enough that his approach is best called 'critical' and that it is meant to provide a third way that avoids the traps of traditional views, whether these be conservative or liberal.<br /><br />Achtemeier is conscious that his critique of liberal and conservative views fairly obliges him to provide an alternative, a task to which he turns in 'The Inspiration of Scripture: A Proposal'.  His 'three key elements' are Scripture's witness to its own nature, the close relationship between community and Scripture, and the importance of the formation of the canon.  True to the 'bottom-up' instincts of critical scholarship, Achtemeier wants to allow the literature to define itself before it is subjected to a higher concept of what its intentions are.  He finds that Scripture points away from itself and towards a reality of which it is a witness.  Further, the community is a protagonist in Scripture's formation.  This is the implication of the historical depth that can be glimpsed in the biblical texts, a feature which is the product of a long process of appropriating and reappropriating venerable traditions in changed circumstances.  Finally, the process of canon formation occurred in circumstances analogous to those which governed the production of Scripture itself: under some perceived threat, the community of faith came to conclusions about the boundaries of their inspired literature.<br /><br />Inspired texts take shape in the repeated convergence of a tradition, a new situation, and a respondent, whether a prophetic figure (e.g. Amos) or his editor(s).  The anonymity of most biblical texts is not a problem, but a piece of evidence that the prophetic model which pursues an individual's voice as the main fact of a biblical book is inadequate to the task of defining inspiration, a phenomenon that is communal to its core.<br /><br />Achtemeier has not reached his objective when he has defined the book we call the Bible.  In two concluding chapters, he insists that the ongoing witness of the Spirit among readers is an essential part of inspiration, else the biblical text remains mute.  Importantly, the Spirit 'retains the function of inspiration and does not delegate it to the words of Scripture.'  It is this fact, which empowers interpretation and proclamation.  Perhaps a challenge to the apparatus of biblical studies in the academy, Achtemeier insists that the interpreter 'cannot be isolated from the community of faith', where the witnessing Spirit is most present.  Concerned to the end with how Scripture functions, Achtemeier believes that 'the fundamental concept of truth in the Bible is not conformity between a statement and \\"objective reality\\", but rather a reliability, dependability.'  Some sympathisers with this line of argument will still want to ask just how factually mistaken a document can be without losing its fundamental reliability.<br /><br />Critical inquiry orients the on-going interpretation of the Scripture by attempting to define moments when biblical traditions where generated and reappropriated, since the intentions that drove those occurrences are essential to 'responsible' biblical interpretation at a later day.  Though Achtemeier does not explicitly say so, he is here defining himself not only over against traditional conservatism and traditional liberalism, but also against more recent hermeneutical approaches in which it is assumed that authorial and editorial intention is too slippery a concept to be useful.  He insists that the biblical canon establishes boundary markers which allow the believing community to evaluate which facts of belief and practice are congruent with biblical faith and which ones are not and are therefore to be rejected.  As Scripture assumes this dynamic function, its authority is demonstrated 'not in the literary form in which it has been cast ... but rather in its power to create and shape reality.'<br /><br />In the judgement of this reviewer, Achtemeier's book-now improved-is one of the clearest and most productive statements on the issue that can come into the hands of inquiring readers and interested students.  He has respected readers who hold alternatives to his own position, while requiring of them a fresh look at the liberal or conservative assumptions which bedevil an argument that is nearly as old as the canon itself.they have levelled Scripture and all other literature and so have 'abandoned any final sense of Scripture's authority'.  More often than not, we are told, liberal scholars simply leave off speaking about the matter of inspiration altogether.  For Achtemeier, neither approach will do.      Failure for both camps lies in their adherence to a prophetic model.  Neither has correctly defined the 'locus of inspiration', a task which Achtemeier undertakes forthwith.  He has signalled clearly enough that his approach is best called 'critical' and that it is meant to provide a third way that avoids the traps of traditional views, whether these be conservative or liberal.    Achtemeier is conscious that his critique of liberal and conservative views fairly obliges him to provide an alternative, a task to which he turns in 'The Inspiration of Scripture: A Proposal'.  His 'three key elements' are Scripture's witness to its own nature, the close relationship between community and Scripture, and the importance of the formation of the canon.  True to the 'bottom-up' instincts of critical scholarship, Achtemeier wants to allow the literature to define itself before it is subjected to a higher concept of what its intentions are.  He finds that Scripture points away from itself and towards a reality of which it is a witness.  Further, the community is a protagonist in Scripture's formation.  This is the implication of the historical depth that can be glimpsed in the biblical texts, a feature which is the product of a long process of appropriating and reappropriating venerable traditions in changed circumstances.  Finally, the process of canon formation occurred in circumstances analogous to those which governed the production of Scripture itself: under some perceived threat, the community of faith came to conclusions about the boundaries of their inspired literature.    Inspired texts take shape in the repeated convergence of a tradition, a new situation, and a respondent, whether aprophetic figure (e.g. Amos) or his editor(s).  The anonymity of most biblical texts is not a problem, but a piece of evidence that the prophetic model which pursues an individual's voice as the main fact of a biblical book is inadequate to the task of defining inspiration, a phenomenon that is communal to its core.    Achtemeier has not reached his objective when he has defined the book we call the Bible.   In two concluding chapters, he insists that the ongoing witness of the Spirit among readers is an essential part of inspiration, else the biblical text remains mute.  Importantly, the Spirit 'retains the function of inspiration and does not delegate it to the words of Scripture.'  It is this fact, which empowers interpretation and proclamation.  Perhaps a challenge to the apparatus of biblical studies in the academy, Achtemeier insists that the interpreter 'cannot be isolated from the community of faith', where the witnessing Spirit is most present.  Concerned to the end with how Scripture functions, Achtemeier believes that 'the fundamental concept of truth in the Bible is not conformity between a statement and \\"objective reality\\", but rather a reliability, dependability.'  Some sympathisers with this line of argument will still want to ask just how factually mistaken a document can be without losing its fundamental reliability.    Critical inquiry orients the on-going interpretation of the Scripture by attempting to define moments when biblical traditions where generated and reappropriated, since the intentions that drove those occurrences are essential to 'responsible' biblical interpretation at a later day.  Though Achtemeier does not explicitly say so, he is here defining himself not only over against traditional conservatism and traditional liberalism, but also against more recent hermeneutical approaches in which it is assumed that authorial and editorial intention is too slippery a concept to be useful.  He insists that the biblical canon establishes boundary markers which allow the believing community to evaluate which facts of belief and practice are congruent with biblical faith and which ones are not and are therefore to be rejected.  As Scripture assumes this dynamic function, its authority is demonstrated 'not in the literary form in which it has been cast ... but rather in its power to create and shape reality.'    In the judgement of this reviewer, Achtemeier's book-now improved-is one of the clearest and most productive statements on the issue that can come into the hands of inquiring readers and interested students.  He has respected readers who hold alternatives to his own position, while requiring of them a fresh look at the liberal or conservative assumptions which bedevil an argument that is nearly as old as the canon itself.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	RLE9L0QNNCNXH	0830826874	314075362	Shades of Sheol: Death and Afterlife in the Old Testament	Books	5	18	19	N	N	an encyclopedia of information and discerning interpretation	The author organises this encyclopaedic study under four parts: Death, the Underworld, the Dead, and the Afterlife.  An introductory apology for the study confronts the reader with a paradox: death and the underworld are fascinating topics for Judaism, Christianity, and modern scholarship, yet 'Israel's religious writers were not particularly concerned with the underworld or with the dead.  The related to Yahweh in this life, and were relatively uninterested in the life hereafter.'<br /><br />In Part A, the manifold figures under which death appears in the Old Testament are exhaustively surveyed, noting that death is sometimes seen as natural while at other moments is viewed as a contradiction and adversary of the life which Yahweh has created.  A second chapter reviews practices surrounding death and burial in ancient Israel, concluding that 'religious rites either did not occur or were of such minimal importance that they have left no trace in any of the varied literary strands of the Old Testament.  Little continued interest in the remains of the dead is evident.<br /><br />In his consideration of the underworld (Part B), Johnston finds an Israelite distinctive in its relative disregard for Sheol, which when it is mentioned is an unwelcome fate, sparsely described, and always in first-person accounts rather than reportage.  The argument for late editorial extraction of the theme is discussed, then dismissed.<br /><br />Arguing that most underworld language is metaphorical, Johnston criticizes studies by Pedersen and Barth that suggested that the Israelite sufferer actually experienced Sheol in this life. Under the questioning heading 'The Pervasive Underworld?', Johnston examines uses of earth, water, and similar words which the Dahood school has understood as references to the underworld. He answers the title's query in the negative, concluding that water and earth are physically associated with the underworld, but never used as names for it.  The probability of accidental or intentional minimization of a pervasive underworld by the tradents of the biblical text is dismissed.<br /><br />In Part C, Johnston turns to the dead themselves, noting biblical texts that show people naming, consulting, and honouring them.  Again, his emphasis falls on how unimportant the dead were to living Israelites.  Part of his effort is dedicated to deconstructing scholarly reconstructions of practices that involved the dead, usually by observing their tenuous basis.<br /><br />Unlike related ANE literatures, the Old Testament is largely uninterested in the consultation of the dead.  There exist a few prohibitions of necromancy and scattered references to the practice, but just one account.  Johnston claims that all literary layers of the witch of Endor story at 1 Sam 28 show the practice to be both effective and illegal.<br /><br />Johnston find reconstructions of a cult of the dead textually dubious and methodologically spurious.  Further, the paucity of censure of such cult speaks for its scarcity or absence.  The biblical record and, Johnston judges, Israelites themselves were largely unconcerned with rites that honoured the dead.<br /><br />In Part D, Johnston discusses the afterlife under the headings of 'Communion Beyond Death' (ch. 9, pp. 199-217) and 'Resurrection from Death' (ch. 10., pp. 218-239).  Some biblical characters escaped death, but they did not become paradigms of subsequent experience.  Johnston cautiously analyses possible intimations of hope beyond death in the Psalms, Proverbs, and the crux at Job 19.25-27.  While the Proverbs and the Job passage are found not to affirm communion after death, the psalmists do. However, they provide no details beyond the hope of further communion with God.  Johnston's final chapter argues that a `distinctively Israelite'  notion of individual resurrection was not significantly influenced by other faiths.<br /><br />Rather, this idea-absent in Old Testament witness but present in SecondTemple speculation and New Testament assumptions-emerged from 'Yahweh's proclaimed power to renew life, its occasional experience in life and in vision, his authority over the underworld, and the desire for unending communion with (Yahweh).'<br /><br />This book takes its place as an indispensable-because encyclopaedic-guide to the Old Testament discussion of the themes it treats, a feature that is complemented by a welcome layer of sober interpretation.nt in Second Temple speculation and New Testament assumptions-emerged from 'Yahweh's proclaimed power to renew life, its occasional experience in life and in vision, his authority over the underworld, and the desire for unending communion with (Yahweh).' <br /> <br />This book takes its place as an indispensable-because encyclopaedic-guide to the Old Testament discussion of the themes it treats, a feature that is complemented by a welcome layer of sober interpretation.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R3RSLMPVVHWUJG	0334027136	808660620	Jewish Messianism and the Cult of Christ	Books	5	12	14	N	N	a must read for any scholar of Jewish and/or Christian messianism	Four densely argued chapters argue for a coherent and pervasive messianic concept in the Old Testament and subsequent Jewish literature in a way that cuts across recent trends in the field.  Horbury's first chapter (\\"Messianism and the Old Testament\\") lays out the case for a messianism that grows organically out of the Old Testament materials from earliest times.  While not rigid, a coherent messianic myth probably existed from the early monarchy.  Far from being an insignificant concept, the 'widespread currency of the unexplained technical term' for 'Messiah' together with fuller designations had spread across several languages by at least the second century BC, coherently referring to a 'rightful ruler of Israel ... the coming Davidic king'.  This chapter complements analysis of the textual inventory with attention to 'landmarks in the study of the origins of messianism.'  The argument is advanced that the supposed mutual incompatibility between God's unmediated rule and Messiah's rule which has much occupied scholars is a false dichotomy, since the texts show little concern to exclude one while focussing upon the other.  The editing of the individual biblical books reflects a messianic preoccupation that encourages finding in the canon a 'coherent series of messianic prophecies'.  This circumstance fomented both the reading of still further oracles in this light and greater specificity as the tradition advanced.  Such a development of the tradition will have been influenced by forms familiar to Israel's cultural neighbours, as by the presence of 'messianic prototypes' within the Bible itself (Moses, David, et al.).<br /><br />The second instalment of Horbury's argument ('The Prevalence of Messianism in the Second-Temple Period') maintains the focus on the period during which the biblical materials were edited and collected but allows its attention to move beyond the biblical literature.  Horbury contests the view that messianism had all but died out the Roman period in Judea, arguing instead that messianic hope was 'more continuously vigorous and widespread' than the scholarly tradition represented by R.H. Charles and C.H. Dodd would allow.  The royalist and Davidic messianism of Chronicles and other late biblical materials is recognised, as is messianic inclination in the Septuagint.  Further, the 'relatively non-messianic Apocrypha' are placed alongside 'outspokenly messianic' sections of the LXX and the abundant messianism of Ecclesiasticus, I Maccabees, and others, the silence of the former group being presented as understandable in prose historical narrative, as is true also of the biblical tradition itself.  Even when not overtly messianic however, 'hagiographical presentations' in historical narrative 'surround contemporary rulers with a messianic atmosphere', a resource that is then exploited in explicitly messianic manner by prayer and apocalypse.  The Qumran materials come into play because messianic expectation appears across the spectrum of that sectarian library.  Thus, the literatures of the Second Temple period develop the messianic myth widely and deeply, attesting to the vigorous prevalence of messianism in a period which is often described as silent on the very point.<br /><br />Even if messianic hope was as widespread as Horbury seeks to demonstrate, it may still have been insufficiently coherent to exert strong influence.  The burden of ch. 3 ('The Coherence of Messianism') is to prove that messianic expectation clustered discernibly around the concept of a specifically royal messiah.  Indeed, messianism is not so much abstract and notional as it is a reflection upon the real-life kings and rulers whom Jews knew, expectation for a Davidic ruler emerging out of 'the tree-stump of scriptural texts'.  Horbury argues for the coherence of messianism from five angles, two of these positive and the rest negative.  First, monarchy is central and programmatic, the idea of it being applied to rulers who lived prior to David and to some who were patriarchs, judges, and priests rather than actual kings.  Second, the exuberance of non-Jewish ruler-cult was not universally rejected by Jews and, notwithstanding ambiguity as to its appropriateness, may have made its own contribution to Jewish 'praise of their rulers and ... depictions of their messianic king.'  Third, the notion of God as sole and exclusive saviour seems not to have been taken by the authors of Second Temple literature as exclusive of human or celestial mediators.  Silence as to messianism in 'God alone' passages 'was fully compatible with recognition of the activity of a king or messiah'.  Fourth, the literature displays an ability to integrate expressions of angelic and human activity rather than to play the two phenomena off against each other.  Biblical literature and its interpreters 'co-ordinate' the two modes of expression in a way which allows for mutual compatibility.  Finally, descriptions of angelic figures and their superhuman characteristics occur more frequently in the literature than is often allowed, a phenomenon which depends upon the background of God's lordship over angels and spirits.  Indeed, 'the messiah seems often to be envisaged as an embodied spirit'.  It is the Jewish idea of a pre-existing messiah which provides the raw material used by Christians in their depiction of the pre-existent Christ, a relationship that renders modern analyses which widely separate the two 'overdrawn'.  Horbury's intention is to cite broad swaths of Second Temple literature in order to demonstrate, over against scholarly depictions of a 'chaotically diverse Judaism',  that the coherence of the messianic concept was widely held by sects and movements which disagreed on much else.<br /><br />The book's final chapter ('Messianic Origins of the Cult of Christ') brings the network of previous observations to bear upon the genesis of the Christ cult.  A recognisable cult, visible acclamation and hymnody addressed to Christ, goes back to apostolic times.  Although the forms of this cult came under non-Jewish influence, it is 'best explained as a development of Jewish messianism'.  By relegating Greco-Roman influence to a supportive role, Horbury strongly modifies recent work on messianism by R.E. Brown and E.P. Sanders.  At the same time, he is careful to define the generative potency of uniquely Christian experience as secondary to and dependent upon the precedent already established by Jewish messianism.  The earliest Jewish Christians were as horrified at idolatry and chary about ruler-cult as their non-Christian compeers, but 'did not regard their Christ-cult as inconsistent with these attitudes.'  Praise of Christ and the assignation to him of numerous titles was doubtless shaped and even encouraged by ruler cult and by uniquely Christian experience (such as, acc. to L. Hurtado, visions of the risen Christ); nevertheless this behaviour is best understood as generated in the first instance by the coherent picture of an expected messiah which characterises the biblical literature as well as the belief and practice of Second Temple Judaism.<br /><br />Horbury's case argues that silences in the literature vis-&agrave;-vis messianism are not as loud and less empty than is supposed by the scholarly consensus.  This powerful book obliges any student of Jewish and Christian messianism who happens upon such silences to ask whether they veil broad patterns of messianic expectation rather than speak decisively of its absence.d to some who were patriarchs, judges, and priests rather than actual kings.  Second, the exuberance of non-Jewish ruler-cult was not universally rejected by Jews and, notwithstanding ambiguity as to its appropriateness, may have made its own contribution to Jewish 'praise of their rulers and ... depictions of their messianic king.'  Third, the notion of God as sole and exclusive saviour seems not to have been taken by the authors of Second Temple literature as exclusive of human or celestial mediators.  Silence as to messianism in 'God alone' passages 'was fully compatible with recognition of the activity of a king or messiah'.  Fourth, the literature displays an ability to integrate expressions of angelic and human activity rather than to play the two phenomena off against each other.  Biblical literature and its interpreters 'co-ordinate' the two modes of expression in a way which allows for mutual compatibility.  Finally, descriptions of angelic figures and their superhuman characteristics occur more frequently in the literature than is often allowed, a phenomenon which depends upon the background of God's lordship over angels and spirits.  Indeed, 'the messiah seems often to be envisaged as an embodied spirit'.  It is the Jewish idea of a pre-existing messiah which provides the raw material used by Christians in their depiction of the pre-existent Christ, a relationship that renders modern analyses which widely separate the two 'overdrawn'.  Horbury's intention is to cite broad swaths of Second Temple literature in order to demonstrate, over against scholarly depictions of a 'chaotically diverse Judaism',  that the coherence of the messianic concept was widely held by sects and movements which disagreed on much else.     The book's final chapter ('Messianic Origins of the Cult of Christ') brings the network of previous observations to bear upon the genesis of the Christ cult.  A recognisable cult, visible acclamation and hymnody addressed to Christ, goes back to apostolic times.  Although the forms of this cult came under non-Jewish influence, it is 'best explained as a development of Jewish messianism'.  By relegating Greco-Roman influence to a supportive role, Horbury strongly modifies recent work on messianism by R.E. Brown and E.P. Sanders.  At the same time, he is careful to define the generative potency of uniquely Christian experience as secondary to and dependent upon the precedent already established by Jewish messianism.  The earliest Jewish Christians were as horrified at idolatry and chary about ruler-cult as their non-Christian compeers, but 'did not regard their Christ-cult as inconsistent with these attitudes.'  Praise of Christ and the assignation to him of numerous titles was doubtless shaped and even encouraged by ruler cult and by uniquely Christian experience (such as, acc. to L. Hurtado, visions of the risen Christ); nevertheless this behaviour is best understood as generated in the first instance by the coherent picture of an expected messiah which characterises the biblical literature as well as the belief and practice of Second Temple Judaism.    Horbury's case argues that silences in the literature vis--vis messianism are not as loud and less empty than is supposed by the scholarly consensus.  This powerful book obliges any student of Jewish and Christian messianism who happens upon such silences to ask whether they veil broad patterns of messianic expectation rather than speak decisively of its absence.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R202O78FMH5BN	0664222684	752221454	Figured Out: Typology and Providence in Christian Scripture	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Old Testament scholar goes theological and pastoral, with admirable results	This spirited, fascinating, and occasionally sermonic book is noteworthy not exclusively for its subject matter, some of which falls outside of the author's principal field of Old Testament criticism.  Rather, its interest lies in the incursion of a main exponent of B. Childs-style 'canonical criticism' into ethical, pastoral, and ecclesial arenas which frequently remain beyond the horizon of biblical scholars.<br /><br />A brief 'Part One' introduces the problem which Seitz intends to confront: 'historical criticism ... failed to do constructive theological work involving the identity of God in the most basic sense.'  Here the first notes of 'canonical criticism' are sounded.  What differentiates 'historicism' and 'historical criticism' from sounder Christian interpretative antecedents is 'its appeal to the human dimension of scripture to such a degree that the actual form and structure of the literary witness is eclipsed ...' (emphasis added).  Seitz' appreciative references to Hans Frei's The Eclipse of Biblical Narrative signal a principal source of this criticism's vocabulary.  Over against historicism's need to 'point beyond itself to a vast, complex, developmental, ever-changing continuum in time and space', Seitz urges that Christian readers let 'the first witness (testament) sound forth its notes in an appropriate manner' as an authoritative deposit which Jesus and the earlier Christians engaged as Scripture rather than as a vein to be mined for hints at the development of Israelite or Jewish religion on its way (or not) to a more mature Christian product.<br /><br />Parts Two ('Christian Scripture, Figured Out') and Three ('Two Testaments, One Scripture, One God') are a collection of essays in which Seitz comments upon current Anglican and wider Christian issues from the perspective of a biblical scholar and canonical critic who is concerned as well with wider issues.  'Scripture Becomes Religion(s): The Theological Crisis of Serious Biblical Interpretation in the Twentieth Century' (pp. 13-33) uses the gap between Pusey's and Gore's readings of Daniel as a test case for a hermeneutical shift whose consequences neither one would successfully manage.  Eichrodt's attempt at an 'independent biblical theology', von Rad's tradition-historical method allowing no room for stabilisation of a textual 'final form' nor of any 'separate theological integrity', and - more bluntly - Brueggemann's de-ontologized 'unruly God' are brought in for criticism.  This is delivered on the way to a description of what has been lost and then partially found (by Childs): 'figural interpretation' which assumes a 'surplus of intended meaning in every divine revelation' which God by his Spirit sovereignly and providentially effects through 'a word delivered once upon a time'.<br /><br />In 'Two Testaments and the Failure of One Tradition-History' (pp. 35-47), H. Gese and P. Stuhlmacher-von Rad's tradition-historical heirs-are cited for failing to appreciate that 'the final literary form of biblical books, the internal canonical arrangements and ordering of diverse traditions into a final literary statement' are not meaningless, but just the opposite.  Both Gese and Stuhlmacher prioritise 'the process over the original credenda as static and authoritative, because self-understanding is always in flux', with damaging results.  For Seitz, 'something stops' at a moment of canonical stabilisation, a critical pause which sets in motion a history of effects which relate back to that canonical res.  Christian teaching and emerging Judaism respond to a canonical fixture in different ways, but both of them do respond to it as authoritative.  The problem faced by the earliest Christians was not 'what to do with the Old Testament, but its opposite: '... in the light of a scripture whose authority and privileged status was everywhere acknowledged, what was one to make of a crucified messiah and a parting of the ways?'<br /><br />'Scripture and a Three-LeggedStool' (pp. 49-68), 'Scripture and Trinity' (69-79), and 'Bait and Switch' (81-88) will be of interest primarily to Anglicans and their observers.  Each of these essays has noticeably grown up out of Seitz' work as a student of Isaiah and other Old Testament literature.  'Booked Up: Ending John and Ending Jesus' (pp. 91-101) seeks 'clues to canonical shaping' in the endings of Ecclesiastes, GJohn, and Revelation.<br /><br />'Of Mortal Appearance: Earthly Jesus and Isaiah as a Type of Christian Scripture' (pp. 103-116) finds in the book of Isaiah a manner of responding to the New Thing in the light of an old word which 'in its temporal, literary, and theological organization ... is a type of Christian Scripture, Old and New Testaments.'  That is, both the Book of Isaiah and the Christian canon speak of a 'distinction between two eras: one past and gone, which contained the seeds of promise and plan, and one coordinated with it, but only after a period of judgement had passed, by divinely given insight.'<br /><br />In 'Dispirited: Scripture as Rule of Faith and Recent Misuse of the Council of Jerusalem: Text, Spirit, and Word to Culture' (pp. 117-129), Seitz critiques the unusual and unsatisfactory 'biblicism' of attempts by Luke Johnson et al. to find in the event of Acts 15 a precedent for new truth regarding contemporary same-sex relationships.  By contrast, Seitz describes the Jerusalem deliberations as taking place in the context of diverse gentile participation in Israel (not as the beginning of a 'gentile mission) and its results as programmed by theological reflection upon the scriptural directives for sojourners in the midst of Israel (Leviticus 17-18).<br /><br />'Handing Over the Name: Christian Reflection on the Divine Name YHWH' (pp. 131-144) engages the irony that Christians possess an Old Testament in which 'the Name of God' is central to its highest theological claims, and yet there is no certain route to the convention by which that name ought to be invoked. (Various alternatives exist: YHWH, the LORD, Yahweh, more recently Sophia et al.)<br /><br />'The Old Testament, Mission, and Christian Scripture' (pp. 145-157) defines 'mission' as 'God's address to humanity's forfeit', an address in which God speaks the dialect of blessing.  Genesis 11-12 and Isaiah 40-66 are awarded pride of place in the discussion, which seeks to understand Israel's election in the light of God's more ecumenical project.<br /><br />In 'Prayer in the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible' (159-175), Seitz surveys prayer within and without the covenant with Israel.  Prayer in the Old Testament is neither religious nor self-conscious.  It is rather the stubbornly relational matter of naming the name of Israel's God as a human response to divine self-disclosure.<br /><br />A final chapter discusses 'The exegetical-theological significance of Article One of the Nice-Constantinopolitan Creed'.  A conclusion draws the essays together.  An appendix is the report of the Inter-Anglican Theological and Doctrinal Commission.<br /><br />Seitz' writing is fuelled by exegesis of the Old Testament and increasingly turned in provocatively theological directions.  These essays appear to be held together as much by the author's own professional and theological pilgrimage as by any factor internal to the chapters.  Here and there they betray the oral style of speeches delivered.  The prose is frequently dense but nearly always repays attentive reading.<br /><br />This collection is a rich mine of occasionally unpolished nuggets for scholars eager to hear Seitz out on the failings of biblical criticism which he alleges, sometimes by speaking of the movement in the past tense.  It will also be welcomed by those whose interest runs in more strictly biblical-theological directions.nd Trinity' (69-79), and 'Bait and Switch' (81-88) will be of interest primarily to Anglicans and their observers.  Each of these essays has noticeably grown up out of Seitz' work as a student of Isaiah and other Old Testament literature.  'Booked Up: Ending John and Ending Jesus' (pp. 91-101) seeks 'clues to canonical shaping' in the endings of Ecclesiastes, GJohn, and Revelation.    'Of Mortal Appearance: Earthly Jesus and Isaiah as a Type of Christian Scripture' (pp. 103-116) finds in the book of Isaiah a manner of responding to the New Thing in the light of an old word which 'in its temporal, literary, and theological organization ... is a type of Christian Scripture, Old and New Testaments.'  That is, both the Book of Isaiah and the Christian canon speak of a 'distinction between two eras: one past and gone, which contained the seeds of promise and plan, and one coordinated with it, but only after a period of judgement had passed, by divinely given insight.'    In 'Dispirited: Scripture as Rule of Faith and Recent Misuse of the Council of Jerusalem: Text, Spirit, and Word to Culture' (pp. 117-129), Seitz critiques the unusual and unsatisfactory 'biblicism' of attempts by Luke Johnson et al. to find in the event of Acts 15 a precedent for new truth regarding contemporary same-sex relationships.  By contrast, Seitz describes the Jerusalem deliberations as taking place in the context of diverse gentile participation in Israel (not as the beginning of a 'gentile mission) and its results as programmed by theological reflection upon the scriptural directives for sojourners in the midst of Israel (Leviticus 17-18).    'Handing Over the Name: Christian Reflection on the Divine Name YHWH' (pp. 131-144) engages the irony that Christians possess an Old Testament in which 'the Name of God' is central to its highest theological claims, and yet there is no certain route to the convention by which that name ought to be invoked. (Various alternatives exist: YHWH, the LORD, Yahweh, more recently Sophia et al.)    'The Old Testament, Mission, and Christian Scripture' (pp. 145-157) defines 'mission' as 'God's address to humanity's forfeit', an address in which God speaks the dialect of blessing.  Genesis 11-12 and Isaiah 40-66 are awarded pride of place in the discussion, which seeks to understand Israel's election in the light of God's more ecumenical project.    In 'Prayer in the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible' (159-175), Seitz surveys prayer within and without the covenant with Israel.  Prayer in the Old Testament is neither religious nor self-conscious.  It is rather the stubbornly relational matter of naming the name of Israel's God as a human response to divine self-disclosure.    A final chapter discusses 'The exegetical-theological significance of Article One of the Nice-Constantinopolitan Creed'.  A conclusion draws the essays together.  An appendix is the report of the Inter-Anglican Theological and Doctrinal Commission.    Seitz' writing is fuelled by exegesis of the Old Testament and increasingly turned in provocatively theological directions.  These essays appear to be held together as much by the author's own professional and theological pilgrimage as by any factor internal to the chapters.  Here and there they betray the oral style of speeches delivered.  The prose is frequently dense but nearly always repays attentive reading.     This collection is a rich mine of occasionally unpolished nuggets for scholars eager to hear Seitz out on the failings of biblical criticism which he alleges, sometimes by speaking of the movement in the past tense.  It will also be welcomed by those whose interest runs in more strictly biblical-theological directions.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R1A49B8RF24I1V	9004111522	570414516	The Oracle of Tyre: The Septuagint of Isaiah Xxiii As Version and Vision (Supplements to Vetus Testamentum) (English, Hebrew and Ancient Greek Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	close analysis by the ranking scholar on the Septuagint of Isaiah	This volume is a close study of LXX Isaiah chapter 23 by the most prolific writer on the Greek Isaiah.  Chapter One ('Introduction: the Method for the Book', 1-19) surveys the various approaches to LXX Isaiah that have occupied the field since Z. Frankel's seminal study.  The author takes a 'contextual approach'.  The LXX is at first to be studied in relation to its presumed Vorlage (similar to MT Isaiah), but more importantly is taken seriously as a coherent text in its own right.  Pace Seeligmann, the translator's genius is not to be discovered at the word or verse level, in 'isolated free renderings', but rather at the level of pericope or passage.  The translator is a scholar, with liberties to engage in creative and actualising interpretation.<br /><br />Chapter Two ('The Masoretic Text of Isaiah 23', pp. 20-47) offers a verse-by-verse comment, chiefly designed to sort out the protagonists of this difficult chapter and their respective roles.  These exegetical observations are complemented by analysis of the chapter's divisions, style, and contents.  An excursus questions the erstwhile consensus that Tarshish refers to Spanish 'Tartessos', favouring instead a location in Asia Minor and, by extension, the Mediterranean and even Africa/Carthage.<br /><br />In Chapter Three ('The Septuagint of Isaiah 23 as Text', pp. 48-87), van der Kooij compares the LXX with the MT of Isaiah 23, presenting thereafter a reading of the Greek text that explains the considerable differences between the two as contributing to a coherent interpretation in LXX 23.  The various parts of that Greek chapter fit together and tell the story of Carthage's fall (rather than Tyre's, as in MT) and the resulting demise of Tyre as that city's trading partner.<br /><br />Chapter four ('The Septuagint of Isaiah 23 as a Vision', pp. 88-109) locates the Greek Isaiah in the context of other Jewish texts from the Hellenistic period, documents which place the responsibility of interpreting ancient oracles in the hands of scholars and sages of the highest level (e.g. Daniel, the Teacher of Righteousness, even Josephus).  The translator is a professional Scripture scholar who receives an ancient oracle of Tyre and moulds it so that it becomes a 'recognizable prediction of events at the time of its author-translator'.  The difference between LXX Isaiah and other 'visions' in this genre is that Isaiah is at the same time an interpretation and a translation of a venerable oracle.  Van der Kooij's intricate reconstruction of the translator's milieu makes him a witness to several political events and thus establishes a tightly-defined chronology that is rather more specific than, but not in contradiction to, the current consensus that the translator of LXX Isaiah worked near the mid-point of the 2nd century BCE.  Indeed, van der Kooij helped to establish that consensus with his Textzeugen des Jesajabuches. The translator was witness to the destruction of Carthage in 146, the Parthian invasion in Babylonia (understood as a signal of the breakdown of the Seleucid empire), and the involvement of Tyre in the Hellenization of Jerusalem and its temple.<br /><br />In chapter five ('The Septuagint of Isaiah 23 and its Hebrew Vorlage', pp. 110-161), van der Kooij shows how LXX Isaiah 23 makes sense as the work of a 'learned scribe' who translates a consonantal parent text very similar to the MT, while reading and interpreting in a manner distinct from that which eventually congeals in the Massoretic tradition.  This scholarly translator, quite distinct from any ad hoc translator of a text that is new and unfamiliar to him, produces a scholarly exegesis of a text he knows well.  His craft can be compared to that of the learned translator of TJ Isaiah or even Jerome.<br /><br />Chapter six ('The Septuagint of Isaiah 23: Revision and Reception', pp. 162-185) demonstrates that the limited textual attestation of disparate Greek revisions makes it impossible to prove a relationship between revision and reception (interpretation).  Nevertheless, it becomes clear that patristic exegesis of Isaiah 23 applies the judgement part of the chapter (vv. 1-14) to the fall of Tyre to the Babylonians, while finding in the promissory section a reference to the spread of Christianity.<br /><br />Van der Kooij provides his reader more than he has promised.  His book uses Isaiah 23 as a test case in which he can work out in detail an approach to the Isaiah translator that he has promoted at another level for decades.  That translator is an intelligent interpreter of his Hebrew Vorlage rather than a 'dragoman' working atomistically.  An interpretatively acute scribe, he intends to produce a meaningful text rather than merely a word-for-word rendering of the Hebrew.  Knowledge of LXX Isaiah and early scribal/translation practice would be considerably advanced by application of van der Kooij's method to other biblical texts as these are represented in the early versions.pretation).  Nevertheless, it becomes clear that patristic exegesis of Isaiah 23 applies the judgement part of the chapter (vv. 1-14) to the fall of Tyre to the Babylonians, while finding in the promissory section a reference to the spread of Christianity.     Van der Kooij provides his reader more than he has promised.  His book uses Isaiah 23 as a test case in which he can work out in detail an approach to the Isaiah translator that he has promoted at another level for decades.  That translator is an intelligent interpreter of his Hebrew Vorlage rather than a 'dragoman' working atomistically.  An interpretatively acute scribe, he intends to produce a meaningful text rather than merely a word-for-word rendering of the Hebrew.  Knowledge of LXX Isaiah and early scribal/translation practice would be considerably advanced by application of van der Kooij's method to other biblical texts as these are represented in the early versions.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R3KRNOYYVCXAMB	0664250424	718438712	Preaching from the Old Testament	Books	4	5	5	N	N	thoughtful primer on preaching from a master preacher	The author of these thirty-two short chapters begins and ends with the assumption that problems we experience with the Old Testament are our problem, not the Bible's.  This subordinating of the Bible reader to the well-weathered book he holds in his hand opens doors, not to forced harmonisations of problematic passages, but to fresh reappraisal of difficult texts on their own terms.<br /><br />A clue to the author's approach to preaching is found at the start, for in between her introduction and the difficult texts she selects from 'Narratives and Law', 'Writings', and 'Prophets and Lamentations' comes a first chapter entitled 'The Holy One of  God'.  It contains the programmatic statement that the essential thing to be said about great preachers is that they 'talk mostly about God and not about human problems'.  This statement then gives way to some of Achtemeier's own 'talk about God'.  This comes in the form of a brief definition of and apology for the God of the Old Testament, who turns out to be somewhat different than the nasty-minded death-dealer of some popular belief.  The Holy One of Israel is, in the end, the God who saves.  Here, Achtemeier is framing the more atomistic discussions of particular texts which follow in a meta-narrative that will provide sense to and context to each one of them.<br /><br />Having prepared the frame, Achtemeier plunges into her chosen texts, beginning with 'He shall rule over you', of Genesis 3.16.  This first example is instructive for her approach to other texts.  Each chapter has two parts, 'Plumbing the Text' and 'Shaping the Sermon'.  This pattern becomes helpfully familiar to the reader as one moves through the book. It signals the author's methodology for moving from text to sermon.  For Achtemeier, one begins with the text, allowing it to define and address its own concerns.<br /><br />Her two-part presentation works like this: first, she locates the difficulty within its context, which by itself dissolves some of its scandal ('That such domination over the female was not the Creator God's intention in the beginning is clear from Gen. 2.')  Second, she engages with her supposed audience, bringing contemporary issues under the light of the biblical text she analyses.  Following this, she sometimes ventures outside the 'Plumbing/Shaping' format and into New Testament passages which attend to the same issues raised by her Old Testament text.  Occasionally, she has recourse to moderately critical stances which illustrate how scholars deal with matters that she treats in this book at an intentionally more popular level.  In the case of Genesis 3 and gender roles, she offers that the Pastoral Epistles are 'recognized by all but conservative scholars to be Pauline pseudepigrapha' and are concerned with intensely local issues.  Achtemeier allows herself to be understood to mean, though she does not explicitly say so, that a pseudepigraphic New Testament text is less determinative for modern readers than an authentically Pauline one might have been.  However, she has no time to parse the details of her occasionally broad-brush sketchings of the critical landscape.  It is not her intention to do so, and readers who expect more on this count will be disappointed.<br /><br />Her main point is usually contextual.  If apostolic instruction in the Pastoral Epistles appears to contradict this point, further information will help lower the profile of that tension.  The local leaders behind the rudely subordinationist texts in I-II Timothy and Titus were dealing with women who had been seduced by Gnostic heretics.  Those shepherds would certainly not want such individuals teaching in the church.  What is more, they were no hardened misogynists, for 'we also would not!'.<br /><br />In this way, Achtemeier weaves text and context into a whole which adds greater depth to each and repeatedly draws the reader and his generation into the picture.  If this also resolves some of the perceived difficultyof the text itself, then that passage has become more amenable to productive preaching.  This the objective of her book.<br /><br />An example in addition to Genesis 3 is suggestive.  If there is a text with more a more compelling history in Jewish and Christian reflection than Genesis 22, is difficult to say which one that might be.  The Akedah, or 'Binding of Isaac' is rich with pathos and ripe for dissent.  The divine request for human sacrifice, the willingness of a father to murder (or 'offer', as the text might prefer to say it) his own son, and the absence of Sarah at such a family-shaping moment practically beg for comment and/or complaint.<br /><br />Achtemeier is methodologically explicit in a way that will endear her to her more cautious readers and disillusion those who would deconstruct a text along just such seams and silences: 'We should not speculate about what the text does not say.'  She also draws her reader into the passages rather remote personae: 'In short, Abraham and Sarah are spasmodic believers, who do a lot of questioning of God, as we ourselves often do.'  There is also a reserved theological and pastoral reflection: 'We must not think, however, that God's test of our trust is behind every single affliction that we suffer.  In the Scriptures, God tests his servants when his purpose is at stake.'  And then once more, Achtemeier follows the resonances that make up what theologians with some hesitation still call 'typology' into the New Testament.  Her phrasing alludes to her prior discussion of the Genesis text's intimacies and echoes the cadence of the Hebrew narrative itself: 'Surely, in the story of Jesus we have the picture of a Father and a Son, a Son and Father, going both of them together to Moriah.'<br /><br />The collecting and explanation of difficult biblical texts constitutes a genre, of which this book is just one exemplar.  One thinks, for example, of the various entries of Walter Kaiser, Jr., who must certainly be the modern dean of the discipline and the master of making the rough places smooth.  Practitioners of the task sometimes employ assumptions and methodologies that are more conservative than those of Achtemeier, as do both Kaiser and Gleason Archer.  It is essentially a commitment to the Bible's coherence that generates a concern to explain its difficulties.  The result is that this genre has little representation on the more critical extreme of the interpretative spectrum.<br /><br />Reading through Elizabeth Achtemeier's PREACHING HARD TEXTS OF THE OLD TESTAMENT, this reviewer is left with two unfulfilled wishes.  First, to converse with her, for her hints and allusions leave so much unsaid, yet her turn of a phrase leaves this reviewer with no doubt regarding her mastery of the critical discussion surrounding her chosen texts, a conversation that she summarises but will not detail.  Second, to hear her preach, for her sections on 'Forming the Sermon' are evocative of real sermons well preached and of a sensitivity to the soul of her listener, now turned reader.  Sadly, neither of these options is possible, for Dr. Achtemeier died during the preparation of this review.<br /><br />For those wishing quick resolution of biblical difficulties, this book will disappoint, as it must.  But for those wishing that their reading of those texts knew further depth and texture, as for those wanting to know how to nudge a fascinating biblical text in the direction of productive proclamation, it will be a treasure.  It is not, one hastens to say, a treasure of secret manoeuvres for cutting the Gordian knot, but rather an inventory of models for preaching through, in spite of, and sometimes by means of the very difficulties which the Bible unsparingly presents us.as become more amenable to productive preaching.  This the objective of her book.    An example in addition to Genesis 3 is suggestive.  If there is a text with more a more compelling history in Jewish and Christian reflection than Genesis 22, is difficult to say which one that might be.  The Akedah, or 'Binding of Isaac' is rich with pathos and ripe for dissent.  The divine request for human sacrifice, the willingness of a father to murder (or 'offer', as the text might prefer to say it) his own son, and the absence of Sarah at such a family-shaping moment practically beg for comment and/or complaint.      Achtemeier is methodologically explicit in a way that will endear her to her more cautious readers and disillusion those who would deconstruct a text along just such seams and silences: 'We should not speculate about what the text does not say.'  She also draws her reader into the passages rather remote personae: 'In short, Abraham and Sarah are spasmodic believers, who do a lot of questioning of God, as we ourselves often do.'  There is also a reserved theological and pastoral reflection: 'We must not think, however, that God's test of our trust is behind every single affliction that we suffer.  In the Scriptures, God tests his servants when his purpose is at stake.'  And then once more, Achtemeier follows the resonances that make up what theologians with some hesitation still call 'typology' into the New Testament.  Her phrasing alludes to her prior discussion of the Genesis text's intimacies and echoes the cadence of the Hebrew narrative itself: 'Surely, in the story of Jesus we have the picture of a Father and a Son, a Son and Father, going both of them together to Moriah.'    The collecting and explanation of difficult biblical texts constitutes a genre, of which this book is just one exemplar.  One thinks, for example, of the various entries of Walter Kaiser, Jr., who must certainly be the modern dean of the discipline and the master of making the rough places smooth.   Practitioners of the task sometimes employ assumptions and methodologies that are more conservative than those of Achtemeier, as do both Kaiser and Gleason Archer.   It is essentially a commitment to the Bible's coherence that generates a concern to explain its difficulties.  The result is that this genre has little representation on the more critical extreme of the interpretative spectrum.    Reading through Elizabeth Achtemeier's PREACHING HARD TEXTS OF THE OLD TESTAMENT, this reviewer is left with two unfulfilled wishes.  First, to converse with her, for her hints and allusions leave so much unsaid, yet her turn of a phrase leaves this reviewer with no doubt regarding her mastery of the critical discussion surrounding her chosen texts, a conversation that she summarises but will not detail.  Second, to hear her preach, for her sections on 'Forming the Sermon' are evocative of real sermons well preached and of a sensitivity to the soul of her listener, now turned reader.  Sadly, neither of these options is possible, for Dr. Achtemeier died during the preparation of this review.    For those wishing quick resolution of biblical difficulties, this book will disappoint, as it must.  But for those wishing that their reading of those texts knew further depth and texture, as for those wanting to know how to nudge a fascinating biblical text in the direction of productive proclamation, it will be a treasure.  It is not, one hastens to say, a treasure of secret manoeuvres for cutting the Gordian knot, but rather an inventory of models for preaching through, in spite of, and sometimes by means of the very difficulties which the Bible unsparingly presents us.	2005-07-24
US	47099824	R22K76Y3NHTBSF	0842385924	737386353	Your Money Counts	Books	4	9	10	N	N	a wake-up call	Two parts warning about the corrosive effect of debt, one part encouragement that such slavery can be overcome, Howard Dayton's manual to a better way of living is an almost constitutional document in the Christian financial ministry movement.  Dayton is the founder of Crown Financial Ministries, the benchmark institution in what has become an effort to counteract the personal indebtedness that increasingly pervades Western economies.<br /><br />The book's subtitles cover the topics presented in seventeen brief, topical chapters.  Dayton's no-nonsense style is softened by his transparency regarding his own one-time disorganized financial style.  A box on the 'contrasts' between secular and biblical notions of finances and another on 'commitment' conclude most of the chapters, crystallizing the teaching that preceded them and adding a practical feel to a book designed as a guide-book towards D-Day ('Debtless Day').  Dayton is convinced that Christians can and should make that journey.  The webpage of Crown Financial Ministries (...) provides additional information and tools.	2005-07-18
US	47099824	R17XS4H82NH0DH	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	buy ten copies and give them to your friends	Friedman wraps up his book by talking about four dead men and what they must do if peace is to come to the troubled slice of land still fought over by Israelis and Palestinians.  Yitzhak Rabin, Yasir Arafat, Hafez Assad, and Jordan's King Hussein were very much alive a decade ago when Friedman wrote an appendix to this still-riveting work, though the shadow of Rabin's assasin was almost upon him.  This casts an eery veneer over Friedman's sensible thoughts on shifting power and the need for all partners to 'buy a ticket' if peace has any hope of overcoming the region's deeply etched pessimisms, even if one now needs to shift the burden of choice to the successors of these four men, only three of whom had the good fortune to die in their own beds.<br /><br />Friedman is ubiquitous these days on television news, bookstore shelves, and award ceremonies.  With good reason.<br /><br />No one is better at spotting patterns in the apparent chaos of modern events, and then distilling them into understandable images.  The Lexus and the Olive Tree, Longitudes and Attitudes, The World is Flat and his New York Times and syndicated columns have filled Friedman's shelf with Pulitzers and placed his voice on the 'must read' list of anyone who believes our times can and must be understood.  Yet From Beirut to Jerusalem is perhaps his finest, unwavering look at a concrete crisis, undergirded as it is by years of reporting in the small space that locks these two capitals in the grip of a land where memories endure too long.<br /><br />Autobiography, as much as the places he describes, make Friedman's study the success that it is.  An American Jewish journalist with Oxford training in Modern Middle Eastern Studies and a pragmatic fearlessness about going where the story lies, the author's common touch serves him well.  He appears equally at ease with his Beirut glass seller as with Arafat, Shamir, and Rabin, though he does not conceal his disdain for the late PLO Chairman's effete revolutionary pose.  Though Friedman is remarkably personal about his subject throughout-yet without giving up his journalist's distance-his final chapters are an almost passionate plea for sanity by a man who has lost friends and seen too much in nearly a decade's posting to the Middle East, just as the citizens of the region have themselves.<br /><br />Friedman is convinced that Beirut and Jerusalem, different as they appear, suffer under Middle Eastern tribalisms that devour their young when given the slightest chance.  The author leads his reader into the human impact of this regional vice with page-turning narrative punctuated with brilliant, image-rich synthesis.  Friedman is convinced that patterns of behavior are there to be understood and, if it can be said in the context of the Middle East without provoking scornful laughter, even managed.<br /><br />He is particularly insightful on the role that is played by America's distinct blend of naivet&eacute; and optimism, the latter quality being one that he insists the parties to the modern conflict need and know that they need.<br /><br />His final prescriptions for a hard-nosed deal between Israel and the Palestinians are now overshadowed by a 13-meter wall and the rough tears in the fabric of the two people's interdependence that were inflicted by the second intifada and Israel's response.  Yet, for all that has changed, surely much more has remained the same, and so Friedman's suggestions read like medicine in need of a pair of doctors realistic and pig-headed enough to prescribe it and convince their respective peoples that only in this way will the patient mend.  Or, more to the point, survive.<br /><br />By my lights, this the single most effective book to place in the hands of a Western reader attentive enough to want to comprehend the Middle East's 'civilization of clashes'-to borrow a term from Niall Ferguson-and hopeful enough to have resisted the easier path of cynicism.Friedman is remarkably personal about his subject throughout-yet without giving up his journalist's distance-his final chapters are an almost passionate plea for sanity by a man who has lost friends and seen too much in nearly a decade's posting to the Middle East, just as the citizens of the region have themselves.      Friedman is convinced that Beirut and Jerusalem, different as they appear, suffer under Middle Eastern tribalisms that devour their young when given the slightest chance.  The author leads his reader into the human impact of this regional vice with page-turning narrative punctuated with brilliant, image-rich synthesis.  Friedman is convinced that patterns of behavior are there to be understood and, if it can be said in the context of the Middle East without provoking scornful laughter, even managed.      He is particularly insightful on the role that is played by America's distinct blend of naivet and optimism, the latter quality being one that he insists the parties to the modern conflict need and know that they need.      His final prescriptions for a hard-nosed deal between Israel and the Palestinians are now overshadowed by a 13-meter wall and the rough tears in the fabric of the two people's interdependence that were inflicted by the second intifada and Israel's response.  Yet, for all that has changed, surely much more has remained the same, and so Friedman's suggestions read like medicine in need of a pair of doctors realistic and pig-headed enough to prescribe it and convince their respective peoples that only in this way will the patient mend.  Or, more to the point, survive.    By my lights, this the single most effective book to place in the hands of a Western reader attentive enough to want to comprehend the Middle East's 'civilization of clashes'-to borrow a term from Niall Ferguson-and hopeful enough to have resisted the easier path of cynicism.	2005-07-18
US	47099824	RBIAYMBIS8LV8	1841952427	14498093	The Blue Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	20	22	N	N	endearing writing from an accomplished story-teller	The Eastern European emigrants to Palestine at the beginning of the 20th century assured that what would become known as the 'Second Aliyah' would bear a Yiddish accent, a socialist ethic, and a hard-nosed disdain for the religious Zionism of some  fellow travelers.  Meir Shalev provides us an angle on their experience that makes it difficult to reduce their exploits to those of secular saints and impossible not to love them for their deeply human foibles.<br /><br />In Blue Mountain, Shalev has given us a great read, portraying the intersecting loves and hates of his semi-fictional village with an unflinching eye and a deeply sympathetic voice.  Halkin's English translation comes off the page as anything but a translation, and so places this moving novel into the hands of a public many times broader than the original.<br /><br />The narrator poses as the grandson of one of the original pioneers, bequeathed by his parents' early death into the legacy and kindness of two such oldsters.  One is his grandfather, the other the village's hilariously didactic schoolteacher.  Growing up as they grow old, 'Baruch's' narrative voice conveys to us his guardians' memory of the Second Aliyah even as we look in on that scene with considerably less innocence about the consequences of Jewish immigration to Palestine than his fictional villagers could have imagined.<br /><br />With reason, Shalev's style is compared to Gabriel Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez' 'magical realism', though the flights of fancy in Blue Mountain are fewer than those in Garc&iacute;a M&aacute;rquez' One Hundred Years of Solitude.  They also owe more to the no-nonsense raw edges of the pioneers' gritty socialist experiment than to the porousness of metaphysical boundaries.  Transplanted to their unpromising environs by events as much as by choices, these Jews from Russia and the East had little time for the cultural adjustments and incremental synchronization that easier times allow.  They drained the swamps and hauled orchards out of dry land by means of certainties that, if they seem quaintly humorous in hindsight, get no apology from those who felt compelled by the tenuousness of survival to exercise them.<br /><br />That is not to say they lacked affection for the Arab inhabitants of the land they cultivated, for these appear from time to time on the margins of village life as respectable passers-by.  Rather, they simply had no time, nor could pausing to reflect upon the pogrom-punctuated Russia they had left behind accomplish much but distract them from the new thing to which they had put their hands.<br /><br />Time, such as it was, existed in order to invent a better way to milk the cows, apply folk genetics to the citrus, and cultivate the large loyalties and enmities that flourish in small towns.  Shalev narrates those times.<br /><br />He speaks through Baruch, who should have been a farmer but instead earned millions by turning the family farm into a cemetery for the Second Aliyah's finite number of dead, those who arrived pale from New York and were buried for thousands, as well as those buried fresh and for free from the village's old folks home.<br /><br />Shalev is a widely-read Israeli author of essays, novels, and children's books.  To some, he is best-known for his compelling newspaper columns that, not surprisingly, argue that grace and sanity like those with which Baruch narrates the history of the Blue Mountain, ought to be cultivated in the hot zone of the Palestinian-Arab conflict. (See 'In the end, it is the violin that wins', [...])<br /><br />'Uncle Baruch' finishes his tale only when a new generation, sprung from the union of Uri, the village's randiest returned exile, and Nehama, the daughter of the alarmable village cantor, returns to grow up on the land that their forebears had turned to green and to call him 'Uncle'.  Perhaps Shalev would tell us that it is by such affectionately-termed traditioners that the story passes from one generationto its successor, so that it remains tell-able and well-told to those who will never drain swamps or walk with as much certainty as the Second Aliyah's 'Movement' found it necessary to do.  Or perhaps he simply enjoyed telling the tale.n swamps or walk with as much certainty as the Second Aliyah's 'Movement' found it necessary to do.  Or perhaps he simply enjoyed telling the tale.	2005-07-18
US	47099824	R3PTMQAQILZ6KN	0140481877	875825620	Master Harold . . . And The Boys (Penguin Plays)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a gripping look at racism's multiple victims	Athol Fugard, 'Master Harold' ... and the boys. New York: Penguin. 1984.  Originally produced in 1982 by the Yale Repertory Theatre.<br /><br />Hally does not know who he is.  The single white character on stage in South African-born playright Athol Fugard's one-scene work is the friend of his mother's two black employees when they tend to St George's Park Tearoom in her absence.  But he is also their 'Master Harold'-reluctantly but inevitably-when the stress of his crippled, alcoholic father's homecoming impels him into an emotional space that one simply does not share with black folks.  Perhaps is it the burden of dealing with human beings on the multiple levels that racism forces upon those who resent but ultimately accede to their required roles that embitters Hally beyond redemption.<br /><br />Hally doesn't know several things.  He is ignorant of the nobility with which Sam and Willie have battled for his dignity over the years of service to his family.  He doesn't understand that even this virtue has its limits, beyond which dignity weighs more than the possibility of continuing friendship.<br /><br />Hally doesn't understand that a night of dancing at the Eastern Province Open Dancing Championships is a thing of beauty rather than of entertainment, nor the hope that is nurtured in a space where for one night people never bump into each other.<br /><br />'Master Harold', the title upon which he insists at the cost of everything that matters, will never know because he cannot learn.  He is a million times more the victim of the 1950's racism in the land of Fugard's birth than any black man whom, when pushed beyond his modest emotional means, he shoves around.  They, at least, leave this dark, sad drama with something.	2005-07-18
