US	47205022	R3DHRQASMAI4PT	190448512X	263886245	Denim People	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Modern designs for traditional knitters	This book has great designs for young people, especially for guys. It can be hard to find designs that are modern without being bizarre. The sweaters in this book will appeal to young men and women. They offer a nice variety, with tanks, pullovers, cardigans, tunics, and jackets. All are sized from 32\\" to 40\\" for women and 34\\" to 44\\" for men.<br /><br />You will need to be able to read knitting patterns in order to use this book, and they do not include how-to-knit info. However, they do not assume much. They give specific row-by-row directions for ribbing and moss stitch. They give schematics and charts as well as row-by-row directions. They also include some interesting finishing details, including bleaching in particular patterns and embroidery, and the instructions for these details are very clear.<br /><br />The patterns themselves are not difficult. They are all designed for denim yarn, though, a yarn which shrinks in a particular way. An experienced knitter who is comfortable with math should be able to adjust the patterns for other yarns, but if that does not describe you, then you must be prepared to use denim yarns for these designs, or find that they will not fit.<br /><br />A final comment -- the book is, like all Rowan books, very attractive. Most of the models look sulky or preoccupied -- as though they were all waiting around for the ACT test to begin -- but the photography is lovely.	2005-07-22
US	47205022	R3PFVRK3WF2L9L	0761135901	831876413	Stitch 'n Bitch Nation	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Perfect for its intended audience	I borrowed this one from the library so I could see the newsboy cap. There were some other cute patterns, including fuzzy monster slippers, alligator mittens, bonnets with ears, and a basic sweater with flames on the sleeves. Of course, you will find ponchos, legwarmers, wristwarmers, cell phone covers, and scarves as well.<br /><br />There is also plenty of basic knitting information and lots of helpful tips. Everything is written in a clear, fun style, and the pictures are snazzy.<br /><br />Experienced knitters probably don't need this book. Most patterns are slight variations on basic shapes. The information about knitting is excellent, but if you own any basic knitting books, you already have it.<br /><br />However, if you do not have a basic knitting book, if you find them hard to read, if you want a fun gift for a teen knitter -- this could be a very good choice.	2005-01-12
US	47205022	R1SSM0C7XCFXVQ	1891400207	965571874	Healthy Foods: An Irreverent Guide to Understanding Nutrition and Feeding Your Family Well	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fun and Useful	After buying Ely's Saving Dinner, which gives menus for 32 weeks of healthy dinners, I wished that I had some recipes from her for breakfasts, lunches, and snacks, too. This book provides all those things.<br />There are breads, muffins, cinnamon rolls, cereals, smoothies, pancakes and more for daily and special occasion breakfasts. There are delicious soups and salads for lunches, cookies and cakes and dips for snacks, and tasty dinner dishes, too.<br />There is also plenty of useful information about healthy eating and cooking. The whole book is fun to read.<br />Every recipe I have tried has been very good. Since they are very casually written, they might be a little confusing for the absolute tyro, or a little nerve-wracking for those who like precision in the kitchen, but most moms should have no trouble.	2004-07-08
US	47205022	R1N5TIFDBDSNC9	0345464869	740156040	Saving Dinner: The Menus, Recipes, and Shopping Lists to Bring Your Family Back to the Table	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Convenience for Healthy Eaters	Around 5:00 at the place where I work, you can hear the women asking each other &quot;So, what's for dinner at your house?&quot; One coworker says she doesn't mind the cooking, but she wishes she didn't have to think up what to eat every day. Another bemoans the fact that her family ends up with take-out food so often. Ely's book can really help with this situation.<br />Each week, you can print out a shopping list from the website associated with this book, write in breakfast and lunch items, and head to the store with confidence. You will be able to come home from work every night and cook a healthy, balanced meal for your family. I live in a rural area, but still have no trouble finding the items on the list.<br />The menus for each week include a soup or salad meal, fish, a crockpot meal (most families nowadays have at least one day a week when they need to eat in a hurry, so this is a plus!), and beef and chicken dishes. The meals rely on seasonally available produce, and cooking methods reflect the seasons -- for example, you don't need to use your oven in the summer. There are only six meals given for each week, so you can pull a family favorite together for the seventh day, or have a meal out. Having used the book for a few months, I have found that the shopping lists leave me with enough extra food to cook for the seventh night. There are no breakfast or dessert suggestions, but the neatly categorized lists print out with space to write the needed items in.<br />The recipes themselves are very good -- if you like vegetables, lean meats, whole grains, and spices instead of salt, fat and sugar. If you are concerned about your health, this is the way you should be eating, so it's worth giving it a try. I am not going to pretend that my kids get excited about brussels sprouts, but they are gradually getting accustomed to eating healthy foods, and I appreciate that. The variety of dishes is excellent -- there are homey foods like burgers and elegant dishes like Chicken Pasta with Artichokes. All are quick, easy, and flavorful. I probably wouldn't have bought this book just for the recipes, but I have been surprised by how good these simple dishes taste.<br />I still use my large collection of cookbooks (after all, you only have 6 dinners for each week in this book -- that is not all the cooking required of moms), and occasionally pull a recipe from the internet when I am willing to go to the amount of trouble involved in that. But I love this book, and I think that most family cooks will find that they save time and money by using it, even if dinner doesn't need saving.en Pasta with Artichokes. All are quick, easy, and flavorful. I probably wouldn't have bought this book just for the recipes, but I have been surprised by how good these simple dishes taste.<BR>I still use my large collection of cookbooks (after all, you only have 6 dinners for each week in this book -- that is not all the cooking required of moms), and occasionally pull a recipe from the internet when I am willing to go to the amount of trouble involved in that. But I love this book, and I think that most family cooks will find that they save time and money by using it, even if dinner doesn't need saving.	2004-07-08
US	47205022	RS5D4XJLTEC7G	0821228617	65186637	Flea Market Makeovers for the Outdoors: Projects & Ideas Using Flea Market Finds & Recycled Bargain Buys	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A Beautiful and Practical Book	So often, magazine articles on this subject assume that you have found an amazing work of art at the flea market. Probably all of us could figure out how to make good use of a charming Roseville vase without much guidance. Berti's book tells you how wo make good use of things like old wool sweaters, metal trays, and rusty lawn furniture -- things you might easily find or have around the house (garage?) already.<br />Articles on this subject also frequently give you directions like &quot;refinish an old X&quot; or &quot;reupholster a discarded Y&quot;. Berti's book gives step-by-step directions with large, clear color photographs. There are materials lists at the beginning of each project and suggestions for using different kinds of items.<br />Projects range from the very simple (using old glassware for candles) to the very complex (building a wooden cabinet). Skills involved include needlework, woodworking, mosaic, gardening, and more. No expertise is assumed, and there are basic instructions and techniques for all the projects.<br />The finished pieces are attractive and the photographs are very appealing, but the book is clearly designed to allow readers to use their own tastes -- and their own flea market finds -- to make their own one-of-a-kind pieces. Whether you want to refurbish and repair older outdoor furniture, create elegant handmade pieces, or follow the shabby-chic style, this book will help you do it.	2004-06-30
US	47205022	RAJ46Z8FUAI5I	1558705600	771145817	Creative Wedding Florals You Can Make	Books	3	21	22	N	N	Helpful for Beginners	When my daughter took her ideas for her wedding to our local florists, the estimates were over $3,000. When we finished laughing, we bought this book. Even though we had very little previous experience with florals, with a little practice we were able to make quite a few of the things she wanted ourselves. And perhaps more importantly, we were also able to determine what we couldn't do ourselves, and how best to work with a professional florist.<br />We didn't use any of the designs from the book, but the clear photographs and step-by-step instructions made it well worth the price for the skill development it gave us.	2004-06-19
US	47205022	RV3E0T1VA9Q37	1887169334	797675419	Easy Wedding Planning Plus: The Most Comprehensive and Easy To Use Wedding Planner	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Not as Useful as We Expected	This was the first book I bought when my daughter became engaged. I didn't find it very useful, and neither the bride nor the groom ever looked at it. It has long lists of &quot;things to consider&quot;, including things like handing out nail polish to bridesmaids. Then there are &quot;dos and don'ts&quot;, including things like &quot;don't be controlling.&quot; There are many worksheets, and separate pages listing duties for each person in the wedding party, including the flower girl and ring bearer. This might be something for the nervous bride who needs to feel sure that she has thought of absolutely everything, or it might simply make you nervous. It is not a fun book, and we found that many of the pretty coffee table bridal books included all the necessary forms and checklists.	2004-06-19
US	47205022	R2MYB1VIAKRS3K	1402702582	443189795	Sarah Lugg's The Handcrafted Wedding: Special Touches for the Perfect Day	Books	5	7	7	N	N	For the Artistic Bride	When my daughter was preparing for her wedding last year, our crafty family was determined to do as much as possible with our own hands. This inspiring book helped us achieve that goal.<br />The book includes three &quot;stories&quot;: Country Lanes, Color Brights, and Antique Whites. Each has associated stationery, decorations, flowers, candles, favors, gifts, photography, and accessories.<br />There are instructions for many of the projects, and all can be accomplished within reasonable time and budget constraints, by people with average crafting skills.	2004-06-19
US	47205022	R115YS6GVH5H32	1564144747	786173678	Cater Your Own Wedding: Easy Ways to Do It Yourself in Style	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	A Realistic Approach	This book has drawbacks. It assumes that you have a LOT of reliable people prepared to help you cook. It is not a cookbook, and does not provide gourmet recipes. And it also assumes that quite a few people will be able to &quot;work&quot; during the reception, as well as ahead of time.<br />But it sure is a great help for those who want to have a wedding without hiring a caterer. With plans for a basic reception, an elegant one, a dessert reception, brunch, and even a barbecue, it will have a plan that will approximate your ideas.<br />Each plan includes shopping lists, with &quot;hardware&quot; like tables as well as food; diagrams for tables, rooms, and trays; and step-by-step directions. There are details of everything down to how to arrange the guest book table and where to put the groom's cake.<br />It is easy to adjust the recipes to your own taste, but the ones suggested are up to the usual standard for catered meals. And -- given plenty of willing helpers -- they will work, too. You may choose to get your ideas from one of the more elegant photogrph-filled books on the shelves, but you can still use this book to translate those dreams into reality.<br />And if you are doing a strictly cake-and-punch wedding, this book will allow you to set everything up with confidence in record time. It's worth having.	2004-06-19
US	47205022	R1WDXKW09TFETN	0609604260	224373000	Weddings	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Lovely Book	When my daughter and I planned her wedding last year, we found that it was easy to get overwhelmed by the commercial hoopla around the wedding preparation process. This book helped by having plenty of beautiful ideas all in one place.<br />The book includes a variety of styles -- unlike the bridal magazines, which all seemed to have the same ideas over and over. All the ideas are classic, elegant, and practical. We were able to use the pictures in this book to crystallize ideas, which we then could take to our wedding professionals, who were able to help us make them affordable and realistic for a simple backyard wedding.<br />The book goes through flowers, cakes, refreshments, stationery, favors, and music. From the early dream stage through the final preparations, it is a useful and practical help.	2004-06-18
US	47205022	R3TEM5JTXVUXBS	1573890103	754620017	Vogue Knitting: Caps & Hats (Vogue Knitting On The Go)	Books	2	27	27	N	N	A Disappointment	The idea of this series of little books is great -- small books with patterns for small things. Pop them in your purse, and you can knit in waiting rooms and traffic jams. And of course, being a Vogue book, this one contains accurate, clear instructions with good photographs.<br />But the patterns themselves are a disappointment. A jester's hat, a sort of crusader helmet, a Peruvian cap without the style of a real Peruvian cap -- these are some examples of the extreme. Those that are not extreme are old-fashioned: a long-tailed ski cap, a fisherman's hat so badly designed that even in the (doubtless beutifully knitted) example, the increases and decreases are obtrusive and ugly, a very ordinary watch cap.<br />I'll probably carry this with me in the fall to make watch caps and berets for holiday gifts, but I wouldn't have bought it if I had seen inside it first.	2004-06-18
US	47205022	RFZWIID12WL86	1564968081	155468638	Wedding Invitations, Announcements, Placecards, & More: A Bride's Guide to Simple Calligraphy	Books	4	19	20	N	N	With This Book, You Can Do It	With this book -- and a lot of practice -- I was able to do the calligraphy for my daughter's wedding.<br />The book includes a number of romantic alphabets in styles from Celtic to modern, forms for invitations, many examples of custom woprk, and step-by-step instructions for projects ranging from favors to menu cards to guest books. There are also suggestions for working with a professional calligrapher.<br />This is a practical book for anyone planning a wedding.	2004-06-18
US	47205022	RMOFHV498P6R2	1564969185	80795017	Simple Knits for Sophisticated Living: Quick-Knit Projects from Beautiful, Chunky Yarns	Books	4	23	23	N	N	The Best of its Type	The subtitle of this book, &quot;quick-knit projects from beautiful, chunky yarns,&quot; describes quite a few books that are out right now. This is my favorite of the group.<br />The projects include many of the popular &quot;hip knit&quot; designs -- beaded wire napkin rings, wine bottle covers, cell-phone holders, felted bags, welted baskets, a chenille throw -- as well as classic sweater, afghan, scarf, hat, and cushion patterns. There is a wonderful bath set (I will never go back to store-bought washcloths) and a couple of beautiful piano bench cushion designs. You will also find the ubiquitous dorm boots and hanger cover pattern familiar from church bazaars. There are a few toys and kitchen things as well.<br />The mix of trendy and classic patterns and the wide variety of items means that this really could be your only knitting book. (Well, maybe combined with a good sweater pattern book). Many of the designs would make excellent gifts.<br />All the patterns are simple, as promised. I haven't found any errors yet, but most of the patterns consist of a couple of rows and then &quot;repeat till piece measures X&quot;, so experienced knitters shouldn't have trouble adjusting. The photographs are sometimes so soft-focus and arty that the finished item is a bit of a surprise, but the things I have made have all been beautiful. There are many interesting suggestions for ways to adapt the patterns (the wire napkin rings, for example, might be made with hemp, or leather strips), and useful tips for working with particular materials. Finishing instructions are detailed and thorough.<br />There are beginning how-to-knit instructions with photographs, an abbreviations glossary, a good discussion of how to substitute yarns (as well as further suggestions with most projects), and clear explanations of all the finishing techniques required for the projects.	2004-06-18
US	47205022	R1NQVKDLR44Y3I	0806963174	592097002	Big Book of Knitting	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A Good Reference in Knitterese	Now that so many knitting books are written in plain English, books that are written in the traditional vocabulary of knitting seem hard to read. But if you are able to understand sentences like &quot;On WS, work all stitches as they lie,&quot; you will find this an invaluable resource.<br />Most knitting books show only one or two ways to cast on, finish a pocket, or rib. This book shows many different ways to do each of these tasks, so that you can fine-tune your approach to the particular needs of a garment, a fiber, or your personal knitting comfort. And it is amazingly complete: I can't think of any finishing task or detail that isn't covered in this book.<br />There are a number of stich patterns, and basic patterns for sock, mitten, glove, and a few simple sweaters. But the chapter title &quot;Perfect Details&quot; really says it all.<br />If you own a few patterns that you enjoy making, this book will help you to make variations in them that will make them more versatile. If you get your patterns online for free, this book will explain the things you need to know which are not explained or included in those patterns. And if you want to improve your skills, this is an excellent book to have.<br />As for being able to read it, the truth is that &quot;plain English only&quot; knitters are limited in what patterns they can use. It is worth learning the specialized vocabulary of knitting, and this book can help you do so.	2004-06-17
US	47205022	R370R4552FBL2C	0312020619	264567191	Baby Knits: 32 Original Designs for 0-3 Year Olds	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Just About Perfect	The patterns in this book are clear, accurate, and well laid out. The designs -- sweaters, hats, jackets, and playsuits -- are varied and beautiful, classic without being dull. They are written in the traditional way, without charts or diagrams, but there is a glossary of abbreviations. There are no basic knitting instructions.<br />I have made several things from this book and, while some are challenging, all the projects can be made by a competent knitter without difficulty. I have never had to go back and read over the directions several times to make sense of them, as one has to do with some books. The photographs of the garments are attractive and clearly show how the finished piece will look.<br />Projects include a bunny suit with matching hat and slippers (use bobbins for this one!), a really quick and easy fisherman's rib set, a rose-patterned cardigan, a whimsical cowboy shirt sweater, and a number of traditional European styles. None looks the least bit old-fashioned, even though the book is nearly 30 years old. I expect my grandchildren, if I ever have any, to be just as cute in the bunny suit as my children were!<br />Some knitters hesitate to knit for little children because they grow out of their clothes so quickly. This book could make them reconsider. Knitting for babies and little children is such a pleasure! And sometimes it is nice to try out new methods on a small project. Then, if Baby outgrows the sweater before it wears out, set it aside for the next child, or the next generation!	2004-06-15
US	47205022	R2I9K3UF8NIEE0	1584793619	549288254	Simple Knits with a Twist: Unique Projects for Creative Knitters	Books	2	75	92	N	N	A Curiosity	In general, I don't think anyone should review a knitting book without having made some of the projects in it, but for this book I am making an exception. If you want to knit a shopping bag with strips of old plastic bags (I think it would wear out in less time than it took to cut all the bags into little strips, never mind the actual knitting) or napkin rings with wire, this book will inspire you to do it. I won't say it will tell you how, because the patterns are more of a concept than a specific pattern. An experienced knitter could follow them -- but an experienced knitter could also do those things without a pattern. And the knitter who is feeling a bit jaded, bored with merely making sweaters out of yarn, and ready to do something exotic may find a starting point here.<br />But is it practical to have a white Aran slipcover for a chair? Could you let anyone sit on it after you had made it? And that was my favorite pattern in the book. Would a beanbag chair of knitting and denim hold its shape? Would you wear a pre-laddered sweater? Could a pink poodle-shaped wine bottle remain amusing for more than a day or two? I truly don't think these are patterns to be made and used, as much as they are exercises in how to push the knitting envelope.<br />It is a very attractive book. If you think of it as a conceptual art exhibit, you might enjoy it. But the projects are extreme and, I would think, impractical.	2004-06-15
US	47205022	RA90LZET8CKQY	0934026785	480042175	The Tap Dancing Lizard: 337 Fanciful Charts for the Adventurous Knitter	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Nothing But Charts, Glorious Charts	There are some hints and tips in this book, particularly for machine knitting, but this is essentially a book of charts. There are 5 sections of patterns in the book. &quot;Past times and distant cultures&quot; includes African designs, dragons from both Asian and European traditions, and other mythological designs from a variety of cultures. &quot;In the wild&quot; has realistic animal patterns as well as more mythological creatures. &quot;Not so wild&quot; is a collection of domestic plants and animals with a few buildings and boats tucked in. &quot;The heavens&quot; has sun, moon, and star designs, plus a neat set of angel wings. &quot;At home&quot; has a hodge-podge including flowers, Christmas designs, a map of Africa, a hedgehog, and some musical instruments.<br />I have used several of these designs (including the tap-dancing lizard) in hand-knitting, with complete success. The charts are clear, there is a good variety of designs, and it makes a nice change from traditional color-work.	2004-06-13
US	47205022	R1QID5ELLD3Q33	0609608800	280316195	The Yarn Girls' Guide to Simple Knits	Books	3	27	27	N	N	For Beginners Only -- and Only Those Who Have Help	I bought this book for my daughter, who was ready to move on from making scarves. She was able to make her first sweater from it, so it was a success. It's a very attractive book, the pictures are appealing to young knitters, and the instructions are readable, even though they have errors and ommissions (that's why you should make sure you have an experienced knitter around to get help from). There are sweaters for both men and women, and some very simple scarf, hat, and poncho designs.<br />Unfortunately, once she had made the first sweater (the hooded one with rotten directions, as it happens), that was about it for the book. The patterns are all much the same, many of them are just a rectangle or two to begin with, and with gauges ranging only from 1.5 stitches to the inch to 4 stitches to the inch, all the projects have much the same look. There are some different necklines, but they are not as well designed as traditional sweaters, so I would recommend -- if you want to use this book -- referring to a basic knitting reference (The Big Book of Knitting is a good one) for a better method of doing the neck shapings.<br />Most books that have simple, basic patterns can give you a good starting point for your own creativity, but the enormous gauges mean that you really can't add cables, patterns, or color work to these sweaters. In fact, it is really the yarns that make these sweaters look so good in the pictures. That makes sense for a book from a yarn shop, and if your main impetus for knitting is a desire to use your favorite gorgeous yarns (chunky ones, of course), then this book allows you to do that.<br />So, while it's a nice book for a beginning knitter, I don't think it will be one of those you will use again and again over the years.	2004-06-13
US	47205022	R38471ZNI1NNSS	9998000564	80304846	Kids Knits/10018	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Too Bad It's Out of Print!	This book is out of print, but if you find a copy, you should buy it (I will, too, since my copy is now falling apart). It has everything you might want to make for your babies and preschhoolers, from sweaters and dresses and playsuits to hats and toys and blankets. I have made many patterns from this book and all have been beautiful.	2004-06-13
US	47205022	RPR4WFU6ZWX03	1579652417	379309774	Kids Knitting: Projects for Kids of all Ages	Books	5	22	22	N	N	For Beginners, Kids or Adult	While it is certainly easier to learn to knit from a live person, this book is the next best thing. With clear pictures and directions, this book takes you from the tools through how to knit a whole sweater.<br />Along the way, there are lots of projects designed to practice specific skills: knit, purl, weaving, increasing, ribbing, and so on. This means that, instead of practicing for a long time before you begin your sweater, you can make a bean bag, a hat, a scarf, a back pack, and much more while practicing. At the end, you will be ready to succeed with the simple sweater pattern. Since the pattern goes up to 46\\" at the chest, many adults will be able to make and enjoy this sweater, too.<br />My personal favorite pattern in this book is the spiral sock. This pattern makes great slippers, while giving plenty of practice in decreasing. The swatch scarf lets you practice different stitch patterns and use the results in a whimsical scarf. There is even a felting project. All the patterns are given in plain English, but there is a page at the back which explains knitter-ese like \\"psso\\". Naturally, all the patterns are simple, but they are designed with beautiful yarns which will give nice results. A beginning knitter who makes several patterns from this book will be ready to go on to grownup patterns!	2004-06-11
US	47205022	R363VVPYYIN6J9	007139611X	403257677	Big Fish, Little Fish : QuickKnits for Kids & Grown-Ups	Books	3	9	9	N	N	A Nice Knitting Book	Big Fish, Little Fish starts with basic How-to-Knit instructions, moves on to some well-designed basic sweaters, adds some specialty designs with things like peplums and assymetrical necklines, and finishes up with hats, socks, and mittens. The yarns suggested are specialty yarns, but the gauges are fairly standard so you can easily substitute (assuming you understand how to use gauge information). All the patterns are designed with simple basic shapes, so there is limited shaping, but there are clever little details that make the designs a little more stylish.<br />There are good patterns for men, women, and children. I have made several without any difficulties, and been pleased by the fit and the ease of working. Since they are simple, changing a cable or adding a pattern stitch is easy. While I have a number of knitting pattern books, I didn't find that there was too much overlap. For example, the sock pattern is done with bulky yarn, while most of the sock patterns you already have are probably made with fine yarns. Mittens with a cable, a fleecy zippered vest, and a hat with an unusual crown design are more examples of traditional patterns with a twist.	2004-06-11
US	47205022	R2AWWPPE8YZIW9	157076137X	612934636	Viking Patterns for Knitting: Inspiration and Projects for Today's Knitter	Books	5	135	137	N	Y	A Lovely Book for a Specialized Audience	I love this book, and have made several projects using the patterns. But it is not a book for every knitter, and certainly not for the new or casual knitter. For one thing, much of the book is taken up with archaeological discussion -- interesting, but those who buy the book just for the patterns may not feel they're getting their money's worth. Second, you really have to learn new skills to use it. I am a very experienced knitter, and can use both charts and traditionally-written directions, but it took me a while to grasp this new system (I wrote the code for the charts onto the page of each chart I used, and that helped). And, third, the sweaters themselves are not adaptable, simple, sized for everyone, or even necessarily suited for daily wear. All are very special, unusual designs -- the ball gowns of the sweater world -- and friends will say &quot;Oh, you're wearing your Viking sweater!&quot; every time you do.<br />That said, let me also say that I submerged myself in Viking knitting for months after buying this book. The stitch patterns are like Aran cables, but they do not go from the top to the bottom in the usual way. Lavold has figured out how to get cables to twine all over the place -- even into medallion-ish closed shapes. I practiced the techniques and designs on slippers and hats and other small projects before attempting a sweater, and found them very usable for alll kinds of projects. If you knit enough to adapt patterns, you will find that the Viking designs will add interest to many other projects and patterns. And if you are a medium-sized person with dramatic tastes, you will love the sweaters, too.<br />There are more than 14 projects altogether, including a cushion and afghan, one child's sweater, some coats, unisex and women's sweaters, and a number of smaller things like hats, socks, and mittens. All are beautiful and unusual.	2004-06-10
US	47205022	R21BMBL9SSWFP1	0486207730	177153204	101 Patchwork Patterns (Dover Quilting)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An Indispensable Book for Traditional Quilting	This book gives you accurate traditional patterns -- that is, you make templates and cut each piece separately, and then sew them all together into blocks. There is an excellent variety of patterns, and many are not well-known nowadays, so the experienced quilter need not fear that there will be nothing new to enjoy. At the same time, there is sufficient information for the absolute beginner.<br />This book is from 1931, so of course it is not up-to-date. There is no mention of modern time-saving methods, and there is a certain quaintness to the text and pictures (maids in caps hold up the quilts, and the swastika pattern is presented with no self-consciousness). However, those who like the quilts of the early 20th century will value not only the patterns but also the color suggestions, which allow the quilter to make perfect retro quilts.<br />And there is simply no better quilt book for the price.	2004-06-10
US	47205022	R19QS1C6EP3V98	0684135051	4614029	Knitting Without Tears: Basic Techniques and Easy-to-Follow Directions for Garments to Fit All Sizes	Books	5	27	27	N	N	A Book for Knitters to Read	I learned to knit from my grandmother when I was a little girl, and can calculate patterns myself, so I did not need to be rescued from slavish pattern-following. I also do not think that the sweaters in this book are the most attractive, stylish, or even the easiest (I'm a top-down in-the-round knitter myself). I have made a few Zimmerman patterns, but none from this book. With all that said, I will now tell you that I pull this book off the shelf constantly, and you should buy it if you aspire to be a good knitter.<br />The discussions of gauge, yarn choice, finishing, color work, and other technical points are invaluable. The entire book is clear, useful, and a pleasure to read. Knowing and following this book's advice can make the difference between disappointing sweaters and wonderful ones, even if you never use any of the patterns in this book.<br />Don't buy this book for the patterns, but do buy it.	2004-06-10
US	47205022	R8QUTQBLM4MZK	0942018168	724858351	A Treasury of Knitting Patterns	Books	5	24	24	N	N	For All Knitters	This book is exactly what it says it is: an enormous collection of knitting stitch patterns. It does not contain projects or patterns for garments, but has all the cables, laces, and other texture patterns that you might ever need. Each is presented with a clear photo and accurate instructions.<br />If you design your own patterns, you will find that this reference gives you all the stitches you need. If you have a favorite sweater pattern that you would like to make many times, this book will allow you to do so without ending up with a drawerful of identical garments. If you like to follow patterns exactly, you may still value the glossary and the clarity of the instructions (often a commercial knitting pattern will not describe its pattern stitch very clearly -- you can often pull this book off the shelf and find it written out better). And if you are lucky enough to have old handwritten knitting patterns that say things like &quot;make this in moss stitch&quot; you will now be able to use them.<br />Essentially, if you want a collection of knitting stitches, then you should have this book. People who dislike the black and white photos might prefer The Harmony Guide to Knitting Stitches, which has more beginner information and color pictures. Walker's book, however, has the largest number anywhere.	2004-06-10
US	47205022	R1HLLI933S87O8	1571201602	397450690	Laurel Burch Quilts: Kindred Creatures	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Laurel Burch Style	This inspiring book has excellent, clear patterns and directions that allow quilters to recreate the beautiful designs exactly. It also has suggestions that allow -- and indeed encourage -- you to use your own ideas. The instructions use a lot of fusing, painting, machine quilting, and even no-sew project ideas, so that you can get good results with speed. There are also ideas for beading and other extra embellishments. In short, the book offers maximum flexibility.<br />Projects focus on Laurel Burch's dynamic animal designs, with horses, cats, dogs, butterflies, birds, and bold flowers. There are wallhangings, bed quilts, and more, and the designs can be easily mixed and matched.<br />The general instructions are good and clear with attractive photographs. I think some previous quilting experience would help make these projects successful, but non-quilters might enjoy them too.<br />Laurel Burch fans will enjoy the book, even if they never make any of the projects.	2004-06-08
US	47205022	R2VJVV7O1JRGU5	155953317X	210675130	Mathematical Quilts: No Sewing Required (Blackline Activity Masters)	Books	3	34	37	N	N	Not a Quilting Book -- But Quilters Can Still Use It	As the authors clearly say, this is not a quilting book. You will not find any patterns, instructions, or useful information about quilting. In fact, most of the amazing quilts they show (on the covers only) are, to my mind, made in such ugly fabric combinations that they are not even inspiring.<br />However, for experienced quilters who want to push the envelope, this is an amazing resource! You will learn how to draft exciting quilt designs using spiral forms and other surprising geometric arrangements. If you have enjoyed designing your own patchwork with squares and rectangles and triangles, and are ready to move on, this book will allow you to translate your most far-reaching ideas into fabric reality.<br />I think this might be especially good for those who are planning to make quilts for men, or for those who do not like the traditional pretty quilt look.<br />If this isn't a quilting book, what kind of book is it? It is a math book, an excellent book on geometry. As a math book it rates 5 stars. You will find that it spices up your geometry lessons, or makes interesting principles of geometry accessible to you even if it has been a long time since High School geometry class. The quilt patterns are actually designed to be done on paper. But if you are a quilter, you will be tempted to transfer them to cloth.	2004-05-21
US	47205022	R1YI4VXS4BQ9NX	0875966535	863718281	Quick Country Christmas Quilts	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Debbie Mumm Delivers Again	Any quilt book by Debbie Mumm can be counted upon to deliver certain things: lots of charming designs organized by theme so you can mix and match, excellent instructions, and inspiring photos. This book also gives you numerous small projects you can make for gifts, some really quick decorating ideas, and a nice section on organizing your holiday preparations.<br />In addition to the specifically Christmas designs with Santas, angels, nutcrackers, and such, there are projects with hearts, tools, fish, apples, and animals which could be made at any time of year. The general directions are excellent. While there are no projects for full-sized quilts, the book has enough information and enough attractive quilt blocks that you could easily come up with one yourself. Contrariwise, if you have a book of quilt blocks and need directions for putting them to use in gift and household items, this book will also fill that need.<br />Quilters need this book for their Christmas shelf, and people who might like to dabble in quilting can use it to get started.	2004-05-14
US	47205022	R3SIYBJ3VC01X0	0848724674	915006333	Big Book of Quick Rotary Cutter Quilts	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An Excellent Book	Before I bought this book, I had always made my quilts in the traditional way. This book was an excellent introduction to the rotary cutting method, and I was able to make quilts from this book with complete success.<br />The directions are very clear and profusely illustrated. As long as you are accurate at measuring and cutting, you should find this book easy to work with, even if you are a complete beginner.<br />The designs are varied, ranging from the very cute to more sophisticated designs to traditional styles. There are designs intended for tablecloths and other small projects as well as bed quilts. Each is nicely photographed	2004-05-14
US	47205022	R3S7OJ2YS520O8	0439309093	966212397	Quilts From The Quiltmaker's Gift	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An Art-Quilt Look for Traditional Patterns	This book contains clear instructions for traditional quilt designs. The quilts photographed are definitely art-quilt in their style, so the quilter who wants to get that look while using beloved old-fashioned patterns will find this book a treasure. There are also a number of suggestions for different approaches in a &quot;Design Challenge&quot; section for each quilt. Some quilts show different sets, and all show varied color and fabric combinations. This allows even beginning quilters to be adventurous without worrying too much about spoiling their fabric -- there are enough illustrations that you can visualize how your own choices will look.<br />The directions are clear, with plenty of illustrations to show exactly how the pieces go together. Quick cutting techniques are used, and there are many helpful tips about pressing and stitching. The general instruction section is also very good, with much more information than most quilting books (there are even stretches for those marathon quilters). The charts apparently have some errors -- though I never follow patterns exactly enough to have found them -- but with that warning in mind, I think this would be a good candidate for your first or your only quilting book.<br />The book itself is beautiful, and the historical notes are interesting. I also liked the fact that each quilt pattern includes notes warning the quilter about which parts may be difficult.	2004-05-14
US	47205022	R3UQ5R10X6SUCD	0806977493	296762272	5,500 Quilt Block Designs	Books	2	75	81	N	N	Limited Usefulness	The first thing that troubled me about this book was the fact that the block designs are all shown only as single blocks. There is no indication of how the blocks look when put together into a quilt. Unless you have much more skill at visualization than I do, you will have to draw out multiples of the blocks in order to see the patterns that will appear when the blocks are set together for a quilt. Still, with such an enormous number of block designs, it might have been difficult to fit in this additional information.<br />The big problem is the oft-repeated claim that the &quot;patterns are easily drafted...&quot; Well, no they aren't. The designs do not even necessarily show the edges of the patches that need to be cut -- for example, Odd Fellow's Cross is shown with patches normally pieced from three triangles displayed as though they were a single odd-shaped patch. This is true of many blocks, where there is no indication of seams. There is no hint that some parts of the blocks may be appliqued rather than pieced. Nor is there any suggestion about grain lines for the pieces, the best order in which to combine them, the traditional set of the blocks, or any construction details or suggestions whatsoever. Although I have made a dozen quilts, and generally drafted them from drawings in books, I don't think I will be able to make any quilts just from the drawings in this book.<br />One of the neat things about this book is that each pattern has numerous traditional names listed. If you have a quilt and would like to identify it, you will probably be able to -- if you are willing to browse through 5500 blocks in order to do so. Now, if you just know the name of the quilt and are hoping to get an idea of what it might look like, you are in luck, because there is an index allowing you to do just that.<br />The other neat thing about the book is of course the very large number of blocks pictured. I cannot say that you will find every single block you might want, however, because -- ironically enough -- this book does not contain the rare block I am searching for! Still, this book would have given me no more information than the photograph in which I first saw the elusive block.<br />This is a book for the quilt scholar, and for the mathematically-skilled quilter who doesn't really need a pattern. Reasonably-skilled quilters would do better with Better Homes and Gardens 505 Quilt Blocks or Ruby McKim's 101 Patchwork Patterns.ause -- ironically enough -- this book does not contain the rare block I am searching for! Still, this book would have given me no more information than the photograph in which I first saw the elusive block.<BR>This is a book for the quilt scholar, and for the mathematically-skilled quilter who doesn't really need a pattern. Reasonably-skilled quilters would do better with Better Homes and Gardens 505 Quilt Blocks or Ruby McKim's 101 Patchwork Patterns.	2004-05-13
US	47205022	R2Q859GMZH7X5E	0696216531	14057574	505 Quilt Blocks: Plus 36 Beautiful Projects to Make (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	3	31	31	N	N	A Good Addition to the Quilt Library	This shouldn't be your only quilting book, and it probably shouldn't be your first quilting book, but it is a very handy addition to a quilter's bookshelf.<br />Like all Better Homes and Gardens books, it is well designed and beautifully photographed, very accurate, and practical. There are more pictorial quilts (both pieced and applique) than there are traditional blocks.They are organized in categories (holidays, trees, retro, etc.) so that you can easily grab this book and find a block for a particular need. For some reason, the traditional blocks are given nontraditional names, so it can be hard to find a particular design in this category.<br />Blocks are only occasionally shown in settings, but each is presented with a photograph and a good diagram that clearly shows all the pieces and the order of construction.<br />Each block is given in a 4&quot; size, and in a traditional way (that is, you have to make templates and add the seam allowance you prefer when you use the templates). You have to be able to do the math yourself if you want to change the size. However, I made the &quot;Linked Squares&quot; design with 12&quot; blocks with no difficulty. A good quilting ruler helps with this. Experienced quilters who like to do quick cutting and paper foundation piecing shouldn't have trouble adapting these patterns to those techniques, but all the instructions are traditional. They are good, clear, instructions, though, including directions to calculate yardage and make templates.<br />Most of the projects -- as distinct from the blocks themselves -- use just a few blocks. I liked that; they give you ideas for things to do with practice blocks, or with that block that turned out not to be enjoyable enough to use for an entire quilt, not to mention nice quick gifts. I also appreciated the variety of styles. You could make dozens of small projects and quilts from this book without feeling that you were doing the same thing over and over.<br />Overall, this is a nice, useful quilt book.quilt book.	2004-05-13
US	47205022	R3E6A8EBEFWARD	0140280243	145747525	A Treasury of Royal Scandals: The Shocking True Stories History's Wickedest, Weirdest, Most Wanton Kings, Queens, Tsars, Popes, and Emperors	Books	5	3	4	N	N	the stuff you didn't learn in history classes	Very enjoyable -- but keep a good reference book nearby if you want the full stories. Farquhar assumes a great deal of background in history on the part of his readers. I had to go look things up several times to really place the events. On the other hand, if you want to, you could just read it as plain gossip and still enjoy it. It's well-written and engrossing.	2002-10-04
US	47205022	R2VVQXUIVT1RA3	037351185X	707247495	The Chaotic Miss Crispino	Books	2	4	4	N	N	too fluffy	I have nothing against a good lightweight romantic novel, but this one is too fluffy even for the genre. It has the standard Regency romance plot: protagonists fall in love, are separated by some unlikely circumstance, and then overcome it to live happily or at least passionately ever after. However, the circumstances are too flimsy (a Regency buck won't tell the girl he loves her because he thinks she should have a fair chance to experience England first?! Come on!), historical detail is unconvincingly peppered into a story with no real sense of time or place, and the characters are too thin to be interesting.	2002-04-18
