US	47226334	RNZST0ZV9EZXC	0689867441	79990372	The Sea of Trolls	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Strong Fantasy	I've been on a bit of a fantasy kick lately, and so, I thought it was about time to finally read a Nancy Farmer book. After all, I've been hearing it everywhere that she's one of the most exciting novelists out there in the young adult fantasy genre. Anyway, she lived up to her billing with this book. The Sea of Trolls was an extremely satisfying fantasy. <br /> <br />Perhaps Farmer's greatest talent is her ability to so vividly create the realm within which the action occurs. In The Sea of Trolls, Farmer works with Norse mythology and with Scandinavian Viking culture to present a world that isn't seen a whole lot in today's literature. That's a huge strength. Not only are the details of this world fascinating, the engagement with Norse mythology adds a certain depth to the book. <br /> <br />Of course, there's plenty of action, too, in this rather thrilling plot. You know, fighting things like trolls, dragons, Vikings, enormous bears and boars with a couple of magical poems can be pretty exciting. It's not quite a perfect plot. At least one of the big revelations at the end of the novel has been obvious for about three hundred pages and some of the characters' actions seem a bit illogical. Still though, there is not much to be desired in the novel, and there aren't many more entertaining reads out there. I wouldn't mind reading a sequel to this novel either. <br /> <br />Lastly, if you like this book, I'd strongly recommend some of Lloyd Alexander's novels: The Prydain Chronicles, the Westmark Trilogy, and The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian. There are some similar themes in these marvelous novels that many of you might enjoy. <br />	2005-08-04
US	47226334	R1GFGWWSK7MNFX	0060517670	7253690	Isn't It Romantic?: An Entertainment	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Perhaps More Like 3½ Stars.	I was really excited to read this little novella. It's rare, but every once in a while, I really crave a good, entertaining romance story, and I particularly prefer the well-written ones that are almost literary. Anyway, a romance novel written by Ron Hansen seemed like it would his the spot. I've read Hansen's Mariette in Ecstasy, and I knew he could write, and I thought that his effort at writing would be an overwhelming success.<br /><br />I was mostly right. I read the novel for what it was, an entertainment, and I enjoyed it, for the most part. The plot follows two Parisians, Natalie and Pierre, who are engaged but who are considering calling off their marriage. Natalie impulsively takes off on a trip to America, sort of hoping to get away from her fianc&eacute; for a while. Of course, Pierre tracks her down in the tiny Redding, Nebraska, and confronts her about their future. And that's the big question of the novel. What's going to happen to this feuding couple? Are they going to marry? Are they going to hook up with someone else? Are they going to go off in their own ways? Of course, the small-town people they're stuck with are weird (as are most small-town people--I live in a small town), and they're going to have some say on the whole matter. It's a good plot. This mixed bag of characters and the awkward situation makes for some really pleasant reading and for some really funny moments.<br /><br />My primary critique of the novel is that, for me, it never went beyond pleasant. The whole novel struck me as being just too \\"movieish\\" (and Hansen modeled this after the screwball comedy of the `30s). By that, I mean several things. First of all, there was just a feel at times that you were reading a pretty good screenplay but a fairly blah novel. There were several times where scenes fell flat because Hansen was trying to describe a scene that would have worked visually but not in words (such as one of those scenes where several characters are trying to find the correct room in hall and they keep opening the wrong door). Also, like with a movie, I felt like a passive audience through most of this. It's kind of difficult to describe this, but there was a certain barrier between me and the events of the novel that didn't allow me to really engage with the story. I enjoyed it pretty well, but I didn't just love it.<br /><br />Overall, Isn't It Romantic was a solid summer read and would make a fine movie. It wasn't perfect, but it was pleasant and pretty satisfying. I can see a lot of people really enjoying this.rrect room in hall and they keep opening the wrong door). Also, like with a movie, I felt like a passive audience through most of this. It's kind of difficult to describe this, but there was a certain barrier between me and the events of the novel that didn't allow me to really engage with the story. I enjoyed it pretty well, but I didn't just love it. <br /> <br />Overall, Isn't It Romantic was a solid summer read and would make a fine movie. It wasn't perfect, but it was pleasant and pretty satisfying. I can see a lot of people really enjoying this.  <br />	2005-08-04
US	47226334	R33NBGO81Q0AA3	0439580358	111629401	Montmorency #1: Montmorency: Thief, Liar, Gentleman	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Very Intriguing	It seems like these novels with a bit of a Victorian twist are in vogue these days. That's not a bad thing, though; many of them have been excellent. And Montmorency is pretty good as well. It certainly adds a bit of originality to this little sub-genre. <br /> <br />It's a good story. Montmorency was severely injured while trying to escape the police. While in prison, a brilliant surgeon saved his life and exposed him to a few glimpses of the high life. These experiences end up sparking a plan by which he can join that high society through a life of crime. And he embarks on that plan. <br /> <br />There's a lot to like about the novel. The double life Montmorency is living certainly puts a strain on him, both morally and physically, and his struggles to overcome his past and to overcome the darker parts of himself are fascinating. That's the real crux of the book. This is a fast-paced reading with some really exciting parts, but it was the inner struggle of the protagonist that made the book enjoyable to me.  <br /> <br />Overall, it's a really solid and enjoyable read. There are a couple of plot pieces that could have fit slightly better or that could have been explained more thoroughly, but still, the novel remained entertaining and pretty provocative. I'd recommend it.  <br />	2005-08-04
US	47226334	R2SQN7FX7N7WA6	006056668X	380736465	Fluke: Or, I Know Why the Winged Whale Sings (Today Show Book Club #25)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Enjoyable Read	I needed a light read a few months ago and read Moore's novel Lamb. It was great. It really was. The sense of humor was right up my alley (pretty off-the-wall and not too dark), and the story was surprisingly compelling (though I guess he was borrowing some good material for a lot of that plot). Anyway, I thought I'd give him another try this summer. Once again, Christopher Moore didn't fail me. <br /> <br />Fluke was an excellent read. There's that kooky, Douglas Adamsish sense of humor, and a pretty wacky plot. Renowned marine biologist Nate Quinn is about to figure out the meaning of the humpback whales' song, when it seems as if they are trying to communicate. One whale has shown in the area up with the words \\"Bite Me\\" painted on the fluke, and that same whale has made several phone calls to Quinn's sponsor. Something fishy's going on (sorry for that), and Nate and his crew set out to solve the mystery. Of course, doing that starts an even wackier set of events in which there are wild rescues, mysterious creatures, zany scientists, sex, and magic.  <br /> <br />I liked these characters also. There are your standard, flat sidekicks that offer some nice comedic moments, and there are a couple of more fleshed-out characters that provide a nice emotional core to the novel.  <br /> <br />Overall, Fluke was an excellent read. Moore once again finds a nice balance of comedy and sentiment, and I can't wait to read something else by him. <br />	2005-07-20
US	47226334	R2IX106H83MCX5	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Laughter and Tears on Every Page	This is one of those books, like Marilynne Robinson's Gilead, that I recommend to everybody. Russo is one of the best writers out there (he's definitely up there with some of the other great domestic novelists I've read-Wallace Stegner, Anne Tyler, Wendell Berry, John Updike). Here, he takes his cast of pretty normal characters, a fortyish man who considers himself a failure, his teenage daughter, his ex-wife, and several other family members and friends trying to survive the turmoil of their normal lives in a small town, and he somehow manages to present them in all their humanness. He presents these unbelievably sympathetic characters with an extraordinary compassion that somehow never becomes sentimental. All of the sadness and disappointment inherent in human life is here, and so is a redemptive humor. This is both one of the funniest and saddest books I ever read, and often, both the hilarious and the poignant moments come on the same page. After I got through the first chapter, I couldn't let this book down, and I read the five hundred pages in a little over a day. This book also contains the single most shocking moment I have ever read anywhere. The moment's not shocking in any disgusting sort of way; it just has one moment that seems utterly devastating at the time. And I think it's the strange workings of grace in the aftermath of this devastating moment that are perhaps the things I love the most about the novel. Anyway, it's a great book, one of the best I've ever read, and I'd recommend it to anybody.	2005-07-20
US	47226334	RST4SRIORIZMB	0312864035	517210797	The Gift	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Great Cover Art, Good Story	Like many other reviewers, I was drawn to The Gift by the cover art (which would receive five stars). The story itself doesn't quite live up to the cover art, but that's still not too bad. There's a lot to enjoy in this story. <br /> <br />The Gift is about two young heroes. Tim is a child who has been deprived of his childhood and who possesses a certain magical innocence, and Simon is a tormented king who is cursed so that he hears others' darkest thoughts. Both of these heroes have their troubles because of a sorcerer called The Usher of the Night and a dark, malevolent, magical creature called Tomen. Of course, Tim and Simon have to figure out how to defeat these powerful enemies. <br /> <br />It sounds pretty ordinary, but believe me, it's not. There are many original elements to the plot that get lost in synopsis. And there are some strong characterizations here. There's also a bit of depth here as O'Leary expounds on the role of myth in everyday life (though at times he sort of pounds you on the head with his insights). O'Leary's writing is strong and original. He doesn't read quite like anyone else I've read. I guess he's somewhat like a Patricia McKillip without such elaborate prose.  <br /> <br />Anyway, it's a good read. Enjoy the cover art and the story.	2005-06-21
US	47226334	R2WWQC73MZTTYB	0553581058	237994876	O Jerusalem (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Still Strong Series	It's true that Laurie King has never quite equaled The Beekeeper's Apprentice, but I don't really hold that against her. How could she equal that original book of the series? What's is important is that she's consistently entertaining, and that she is, even if she hasn't quite equaled her greatest moment. I have enjoyed every Mary Russell novel. Each novel has its constant joys, particularly the magnificent (particularly for genre literature) characterizations of Holmes and Russell. Under King's pen, Holmes becomes more human. With the development of the relationship between him and Russell, Holmes becomes much more than a rational machine. There's some actual character growth here. Of course, Mary Russell is quite the character as well. Laurie King also has the ability to throw in large plot twists that drive the Sherlock Holmes mystery to new places. In O Jerusalem, it is setting of the story in the post-World War I Middle East that makes this original. The clash of cultures, ample dose of history, the harsh living conditions all add to the adventure. In particular, O Jerusalem is made strong by the introduction of two characters, Mahmoud and Ali, who are compelling in their own ways. My one problem with the novel is that there is an enormous buildup and a somewhat weaker ending than is expected. Overall though, it is still an excellent read. The historical setting and the strong characters keep this series strong.	2005-06-21
US	47226334	R1XHPQB6VK1THP	0380973634	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting Stuff (and a little bit to think about)	I've had friends recommending Neil Gaiman to me for quite a while now, and for some reason, I was just never that enthused about reading anything by him. It turns out, I was really wrong. Neverwhere is the first Gaiman book I've read, and it was excellent. I can't wait to get to other novels by this guy. <br /> <br />Neverwhere is about Richard Mayhew, who is basically an unhappy loser struggling through his everyday life. That is, until he helps out a mysterious girl laying in the streets. After this, he is a loser trying to survive in the fantastical, surreal, dangerous, unbelievablely dark underworld of London. He has to encounter all sorts of maniacal enemies, including two assissins who are perhaps the most morbid I've seen in any story. Of course, he gets drawn into an impossible quest as well, and he has a few friends to accompany him through his adventures. There are some pretty old fantasy motifs here, but with Gaiman writing, everything seems original. There is certainly no excitement lacking in this compelling novel.  <br /> <br />There's also a certain depth to the novel that really adds to the effect. The novel's littered with meaningful allusions to religious stories, fairy tales, and literary works (particularly by G.K. Chesterton). It all culminates into a sort of rumination on the essentiality of imagination to enhance ordinary life and perhaps allow for transcendence.  <br /> <br />Overall, this is a really solid work. There's plenty to enjoy here and a little to think about.	2005-06-14
US	47226334	R2W33DTMHQAT1C	0679600507	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Modern Library)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Faith on the Frontier	I've never really read anything like Death Comes for the Archbishop before. The stories of Sara Orne Jewett and other novels by Cather are the only things I know of that are similar, but Death Comes for the Archbishop has something different. There is just something truly sublime in these simple tales collected here.  <br /> <br />The novel is basically about these two priests trying to live out their faith in an alien land. It's truly a frontier novel, as so many sorts of frontiers are crossed in the novel. The priests cross the expanse between their own culture and those of their flock. The priests connect with Native Americans, Mexicans, and Americans, and they work toward achieving unity for all these peoples. Ultimately, the priests' goal is to guide these people (and themselves) toward unity with God. That's probably the real beauty of the novel. Each episode of the novel is simply told; these are simple stories of simple people trying to live in a harsh land. However simple and grounded these stories seem to be, though, a closer look reveals them to always be imbued with spiritual portent. Cather writes lovingly of these people and this land, and she finds the holiness located in life on this frontier. <br /> <br />Overall, Death Comes for the Archbishop is such a lovely little novel. There's an extraordinary beauty and wisdom in every image and every word. It's a novel well worth reading and one that I will read several times more.	2005-06-14
US	47226334	R1K2SMWSVI6XJG	0898705525	816806068	Orthodoxy	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Oh, the Sanity...	There are very few writers I can remember who have a wit and a mastery of words equal to Chesterton's (Annie Dillard is just about the only one I can think of). For that reason alone, Orthodoxy is worth reading for just about any lover of words, believer of not. He has the most extraordinary way of saying the most absurd things that are also perfectly logical. He says those obvious things that had never struck you before, and it's utter sublimity when you happen upon those moments in this text. Of course, Chesterton's whole goal in writing this book is to provide that sort of insight. Perhaps the most adventuresome, the most true way of looking at the world and of living in this world is the very old way that's been sitting right in front of us all the time, orthodox Christianity. It may sound crazy. Certainly, \\"mystery\\" and \\"adventure\\" aren't words that always spring to mind when one thinks of Christianity, but they should be. Chesterton's the sort of writer that can make Christianity seem like something new. This isn't a perfect book, but it's close. And it should be a must-read for everyone.	2005-06-02
US	47226334	RGT3MCOX2HV59	0486282015	398754274	The Thirty-Nine Steps (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Read During a Thunderstorm	I recently finished a grueling semester, and after it, I've been needing some light reading to make me sane again. One recent rainy afternoon, I took a glance at my bookshelves and picked up The Thirty-Nine Stepts. It's been sitting there for a few years waiting for the right moment for me to read it. This was the moment, and the novel certainly did the trick. I quickly read The Thirty-Nine Steps that afternoon, and I enjoyed every minute of it. Richard Hannay is one heck of an adventure character. There aren't any lulls in the book with this character driving the plot. Richard has an extraordinary knack for getting into deep trouble and right back out of it. Even the few moments of the novel in which danger isn't directly overhead are entertaining because of Richard's (and Buchan's) sense of humor. The mystery of the novel isn't bad either. There's a really authentic sense in the story. Overall, there's not a dull moment in this brief book, and it was well worth the couple of dollars and couple of hours I spent on it. The book provided an excellent afternoon of reading, and when the next thunderstorm roles around, I expect to pick up one of Buchan's other novels that I have laying around.	2005-05-26
US	47226334	R15X1PZ1833XPF	0374153892	282518591	Gilead: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Perfect.	Last January, I read Time Magazine's endorsement of this novel, and I couldn't wait to read it. I immediately went out and bought it even though my semester was about to begin, and I knew I wouldn't be able to read it right away. It just seemed like the perfect book for me to read though. I'm currently in graduate school for English and am leaning toward jumping fields into the seminary. A literary novel by such a wonderful writer about a clergyman just seemed awfully compelling for me. Robinson was going to be combining the my two areas of interest--literature and theology. Of course, I didn't get to read the novel throughout the busy semester, and in the meantime, it picked up the Pulitzer. Needless to say, my expectations for the novel were extraordinarily high by the time I god around to reading it; I feared they would be too high. I read the novel last week, though, and those expectations weren't nearly too high. They really couldn't be; Gilead is a perfect novel.  <br /> <br />The prose is lovely; there's not a word out of place. And the images are so beautiful. This isn't a long novel, but I read it slowly because I wanted to allow these images to soak in. I reread passage after passage. The characterizations are also splendid. I've been sick of the anti-hero for a long time now, and it is wonderful to read about a character who is a good man, struggling to be better. John Ames is a truly authentic character and certainly one of my favorites in literature. There is even an enormous emotional tug at the end of the novel. Some of the other reviewers have complained about a lack of plot. In ways, that's true. The book, until the end, is primarily John Ames's daily observations. It's just not focused on the plot. I don't, however, see how this is a problem. If you're looking for Michael Crichton, this probably isn't the book to read. Gilead is the book the read, however, if you're interested in compassionate characters, lucid prose, and some truly wise observations on life. There are even a few emotional moments as well if you keep going. Lastly, there are a number of moments of theological insight in the book if one is looking for them. It's, by no means, essential for the reading experience, but I do think that a little knowledge of narrative theology and liberation theology does enhance the reading of the novel. <br /> <br />Overall, Gilead was a superb novel. I already rank it among my all-time favorites, and I plan to read it again soon.	2005-05-19
US	47226334	RBIDM0ZALQCJN	188301106X	207419157	Robert Frost: Collected Poems, Prose, and Plays (Library of America)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	You'll Never Need Another Frost Book	I took a class last semester on Robert Frost, and it was quite an experience. Frost was truly a wonderful poet who deserves every bit of praise he gets (and who is unfairly ignored in academia it seems). His words are so often true and lifechanging and beautiful and honest. Nobody is fully educated until they have read Frost's classics: \\"The Death of the Hired Man,\\" \\"Mending Wall,\\" \\"Birches,\\" \\"After Apple-Picking,\\" \\"Storm Fear,\\" \\"Meeting and Passing,\\" etc. There are so many good ones. <br /> <br />The Library of America edition is a great way to be exposed to Frost's poetry. It's true that there are a lot of pretty bad poems since everything, good and bad, is included in the volume; the uncollected poems here were meant to stay uncollected. Nevertheless, that everything is here is really a great strength to the book. It's great being able to place a single poem in Frost's entire oevre. I also liked seeing how his command of the language and the forms of poetry. Seeing everything also helped to see how his conception of his role changed. Most importantly, I loved that Frost's prose and his plays were included here. There are a number of gems to be found there. I particularly enjoyed the \\"'Sermon' at the Rock Avenue Temple\\" and Frost's children's stories. The ability to read Frost's prose alongside his poetry really enhances the reading of both. <br /> <br />Overall, Frost was a magnificant poet who cannot be given less than five stars, and by reading everything in this edition, one can certainly gain a greater appreciation of the poet at his finest.	2005-05-18
US	47226334	R28X72K7QTBG73	0873387384	659070364	Arthur Mervyn: Revised Edition	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Pretty Good Still, After Two Hundred Years	For sentimental reasons, I'll always love Charles Brockden Brown. I've taken two different English courses in which Brown was the only writer I really cared to engage with, and in both cases, he pretty much ended up getting me an A in the course because I could write papers and do presentations on his books. He has always been a really compelling writer for my tastes, and he offers endless avenues for thought. This book is certainly no exception. It's mysterious, disturbing (in a good way), and strangely satisfying throughout, and there's certainly much to think about. <br /> <br />Arthur Mervyn is basically the story of a young man trying to survive in a chaotic world. Arthur Mervyn's post-Revolutionary America is plagued by all sorts of anxiety. Not only is there a yellow fever epidemic ravaging Philadelphia, the newly formed nation, established by revolution, seems to be crumbling. Arthur has no moorings in this place, and he struggles to find community and meaning. He has a number of strange obstacles to overcome. His boss is, of course, a murderer, and Arthur's association with him doesn't make him many friends. Also, there are not many people (including perhaps Arthur) who know how to tell the truth, and Arthur can't tell who to believe. There are also quite a few people who, for one reason or another, are out to get Arthur. He's got to survive the disease and the society and attempt to find some sort of peace from himself. <br /> <br />It's a good read. It's confusing at times, but its a meaningful confusion. And the average reader can certainly enjoy this. Arthur Mervyn reveals a lot about life of his day in this new nation, and a lot of his struggles really resonate with those happening today. The parallels between Arthur's America and today's are pretty startling. There are really a lot of reasons to read this book. There's plenty to think about here and plenty to enjoy.	2005-05-16
US	47226334	RO4GROKT5GQQR	0679738568	217345729	Woman Hollering Creek: And Other Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Mostly Good Moments, and A Few Great Ones	I'll echo other Amazon reviewers in saying that Cisneros has a truly unique voice. Even when her ultimate point is to say things that we've heard over and over again (and often need to hear even more), she conveys her message by saying old things in unique, truly striking ways. Cisneros actually finds images that have never been used before (\\"houses the color of bad weather\\"), and even in in the weaker stories, there is always this pure voice that is a constant joy to encounter. <br /> <br />The stories themselves vary widely in style. There are the short, impressionistic, plotless, poetic ones (that are sometimes my favorites) like \\"Eleven,\\" \\"Salvador Late or Early,\\" and \\"Tin Tan Tan.\\" Then, there are the longer ones that draw so strongly on the author's heritage. The title story and in \\"Little Miracles, Kept Promises\\" are particularly strong.  <br /> <br />Overall, this is well worth a read. As the other reviewers suggest, it may be of most interest to those drawn to feminist writing and to Chicana writings, but those readers are, by no means, the only ones who can enjoy this. The stories of Woman Hollering Creek should also be of interest to those who simply love good writing.	2005-05-16
US	47226334	R1MR30X4TPQECE	155885083X	176856600	...y no se lo tragó la tierra / ...And the Earth Did Not Devour Him (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	4	38	38	N	N	Honest Coming of Age Stories.	I took a literature class this semester that focused largely on literature of the Mexican-American experience. \\"...And the Earth Did Not Devour Him\\" was one of my favorite books of the semester (though there were a couple that I thought were better), and it was probably my classmates' single favorite. There was certainly a large response from the students, and it was not without reason. <br /> <br />This book consists of several related stories. All of them are about the experience of the poor, migrant farmworker. There is such compassion and humanity in these people as they struggle to survive. The stories depict the cruelty of the life and particularly the way it is inflicted on people. There is also much about the community's ability to come together to help one another survive. Of course, there are also stories that depict the harsh pressure inflicted on relationships by the hardship of these peoples' lives. The stories usually come back to the single character, a young boy coming of age in this suffering community. His plight is particularly emphasized. He has to struggle to quell his hatred of those people who hold his fate in their hands, and he has to struggle with God. The community's faith in God offers them the only hope and meaning they have, but the boy questions a God who seems to be absent in his struggle.  <br /> <br />Ultimately, Rivera's work is a compelling read. There are a lot of reasons to read the work. It tells an honest coming of age story, and it depicts the unique pressures of locating identity with such social hardship. There are also so many moving, provocative images in the stories. There is a lot of meaning to be found here. <br /> <br />I'm not a Spanish-speaker, and as such, I can't really vouch for the translation. I've heard a number of people complain about this translation, and I do doubt that it does the original full justice. It's still worth reading though. It seems that reading these stories in whatever form available is better than not reading the book at all.	2005-05-16
US	47226334	R2XY73P20ZJOX6	0140168117	864319909	Tristessa	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What's Changed?	I remember reading this about three years ago as an undergrad and not enjoying this book. I'm not sure why. I just never much liked the Beats; their experiences just seemed so foreign to mine for me to relate. But I reread this book a couple of days ago, and everything had changed. I'm just guessing that I was an idiot a few years ago, and now I'm obviously wise and intelligent and crazy and depressed enough to like this. I read this straight through, and every minute of it felt so authentic. I felt the sorrow here. The longing the protagonist has for Tristessa and the desire he has to redeam her. The sense of despair and longing for spiritual fulfillment. I appreciated his engagement initially with Buddhism and eventually a reconsideration of Christianity. This was a nice read. Spare and sincere. I'll reread it again soon. I'm sure that I'll like it again.	2005-04-21
US	47226334	R3ORNOBQ3LCUX1	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Yummy	I didn't think I'd like this book when I had to read it for a class. It's just not my style. I usually go for books about depressed male characters (such as myself) like The Moviegoer and The Catcher in the Rye. This isn't one of those novels. Nevertheless, it was good. I should probably start looking for these romance/recipe novels more often. The novel's basically a mythological story about the passionate Tita who, unable to marry the one she loves, expresses her passion through her food. There are some hilarious moments and some really romantic ones. And Tita's definitely a character worth falling in love with. She's one that will drive you crazy (if I were female, I would never go for Pedro, but that's just me), but that really just makes the novel better. This is definitely a great novel for a light afternoon read. And I'm going to try some of the recipes, too. Enjoy.	2005-02-28
US	47226334	R2HTKA2BBAQIXG	082632780X	53047583	The Mexican Revolution, 1910-1940 (Diálogos Series, No. 12)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Not a Bad Read at All	I recently found myself in the situation of having to give myself a crash course in the Mexican Revolution for a presentation. I rushed to the library and scanned the shelves for a fairly detailed analysis of the Revolution that wouldn't be a dense read. This fit the bill and basically saved my hide. <br /> <br />Gonzales really has a fine prose style. The read isn't dense, but at the same time it is detailed and accurate. You get a really thorough overview without just being bogged down. And of course, the Revolution itself adds enough narrative power to keep up the interest for the somewhat casual reader such as myself. The only problem I had with the work, as compared with others I consulted is that Zapata seems too distant and unimportant in this account. This isn't a biography, though. This is a survey of the Revolution's basic happening and a fairly brief analysis of their couases and effect. And as such a survey, the work succeeds. I would definitely recommend this for the casual history reader or for the student needing an introduction to a fascinating and important period.	2005-01-28
US	47226334	R1DIVSS3PTZ4OQ	0385502753	168004040	Soul Survivor: How Thirteen Unlikely Mentors Helped My Faith Survive the Church	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Flawed but Still Good	There should really have been two books here. Yancey should have written one book about his journey to overcome the scars inflicted on him by a Pharisaical church upbringing, and he should have written one book about the people who have influenced his life as a Christian. His attempt to force these two separate books together just doesn't always work. He often goes off on digressions that don't apply to the main theme of the book. The second half of the book applies more to his development as a writer than to his attempts to \\"survive the church.\\" It's just not a well-conceived book. Additionally, he wrote a terrible preface to this paperback edition that even contradicts some of the things he writes in the book. <br /> <br />All that said, there was a lot to like about the book. Even if his choices of mentors didn't always make sense within the context of the book, he did choose some extraordinary people to write odes to, and he brings forth a number of insights that he gained from them. Many of his chapters are very moving, such as the ones on Paul Brand, Gandhi, and Robert Coles. I also enjoyed his tributes to some of my favorite writers such as Buechner, Dillard, Tolstoy, Endo, Chesterton, and Donne. In choosing these men and women to write about, Yancey's had chosen material too good for him to go too far wrong on. My advice is to read the book and take the wonderful things that are in here, and ignore the structure and the preface. Despite its flaws, Soul Survivor is an easily-read book with a lot to like.	2005-01-07
US	47226334	R32KYEEX46L1V1	0375755195	332508756	Sailing Alone Around the Room: New and Selected Poems	Books	5	5	6	N	N	If I Could Write Poetry...	...I would write like Billy Collins. Unfortunately, I can't, and there aren't many others who can either. Collins is just as good as he is supposed to be. His poems are wry glimpses at the seemingly mundane world around him, and through his poetry, he locates the humor and the wisdom and the beauty to be found therein. His poems are in turn witty and shocking and poignant. As the back of the cover says, he \\"begins with the everyday and ends in the infinite.\\" That's just about right. He's got that same gift that poets like Emily Dickinson (the subject of one of his best poems) and Robert Frost had. He can look at the everyday and see the sublime.	2005-01-03
US	47226334	R1JI12GLJCXI96	0385029306	192327135	Dark Night of the Soul	Books	5	149	154	N	Y	A Lot to Think About	First of all, I don't understand why anybody would complain about the language of this translation. The work is about an excrutiating and almost indescribable journey, and a book about such a subject should by no means be a light afternoon read. The very language of Dark Night of the Soul calls for intense engagement and is a fruitful exercise in itself. Furthermore, this language has an extraordinarily authentic quality that conveys something of the mystery St John of the Cross is pursuing. <br /> <br />The work also gives so much to think about. I don't know that I agree with everything, but that's fine, and St John himself notes that each journey toward God will be somewhat different. But there is a lot that appeals to me. Truly, the journey toward God can be difficult. Reading about any character in the Bible from Abraham to David to Jesus confirms this. Life is such a strange mixture of the presence of God and the (at least seeming) absense, and persevering toward union with God means getting through these agonizing periods. In this book, St John of the Cross gives great hope as he accounts for those dark times and provides a framework for getting through them. This isn't a light read, and it is certainly a book that needs multiple readings. Nevertheless, it gives you a lot to think about and is ultimately well worth the effort. <br />	2005-01-03
US	47226334	R2FTQZZGUWKG2D	0375503811	882462355	Nine Horses: Poems	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Poetry for Everybody	I may just be lazy, but I've always liked poetry, and literature in general, that seems born of an \\"everyday\\" life like I have lived. This doesn't mean that poetry needs to be unintelligent. It just means that I generally prefer Robert Frost or Emily Dickinson to T.S. Eliot or Wallace Stevens. If I have to take a semester class on something like Ulysses in order to have some grasp on it, it's not worth it to me, and such literature seems to be far too elitist. Luckily, we have writers like Billy Collins that can satisfy both my tastes and my professors'. Collins finds the beauty and humor and mystery inherent in the everyday. He is in awe of this world with all of its absurdities and simple marvels, and he has the language to express his wonder. He is one of those strange people that can still see, and reading his poetry can help us--all of us--to see as well.	2005-01-02
US	47226334	RUOTKNHI15E7	0812970802	670191536	Girl Meets God: A Memoir	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Winner	The book cover deserves five stars, and the inside of the book comes close to matching it. Girl Meets God was certainly a good book and is one which I will recommend to others. However, it's not quite one that will take a prestigeous place on the table by my bed. <br /> <br />The book is basically the story of young woman's journey from Orthodox Judaism to Christianity. It's not really a chronological narrative. Instead, Winner sets the book up as progression through a year of the Christian journey, and she reflects back on significant moments and insights that have to do with a time of year such as Lent or Easter. For me, this set-up seemed like the strength and weakness of the work. The way she reflects back on her past experiences makes those experiences more immediate and meaningful, and this organization seems less contrived than would a chronological narrative. However, this also makes the book somewhat uneven. Winner, for instance, sometimes will follow a compelling story with a fairly prosaic reading of some scriptural story. Sometimes Winner herself seems to be evident through her writing, but sometimes she seems too hidden. There are some really fine moments of writing and some excellent moments of insight, but there are also a few times when it is evident that this is first time writer. Of course, it's quite an achievement that most of the book seems like the work of an Annie Lamotte or Kathleen Norris(if not an Annie Dillard). Overall, this is a worthwhile read, and I'll be looking out for more works by Winner in the future.	2005-01-01
US	47226334	R1AHORN911HTWD	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Blaspheme!!!!  Oh waith, this is pretty good...	I just finished a my first semester in grad school and badly needed a light read to begin the Christmas holidays. Even though this novel wasn't quite as light a read as I had expected (there's actually a little something to thing about), it certainly succeeded. This is a great book which I will certainly be recommending to others and which I will be reading again. <br /> <br />The premise is excellent. Biff, a rather comical troublemaker, was the best friend of Jesus (Joshua in the novel) in life, and Biff has been resurrected by an angel in order to write his version of the story. Biff tells about Jesus's early years in Nazareth and about the adventures in the East that the two undertook in preparation for Jesus's ministry. The story itself is often hilarious, particularly Biff's observations and the often witty Biblical allusions. Additionally, there are ample doses of adventure, romance, and even some pretty decent religious philosophy. <br /> <br />I don't think this book should offend many people. In fact, this struck me as a very truthful book. In addition to the rampant humor, there is that element of tragedy. Just as in the gospels and in present life, those two coexist. And whatever Biff's foibles, he is certainly a man who deeply cares for Jesus, and that love comes through. Despite being marketed as a comedy, there is much more feeling to the novel. Moore brings to the well-known story an eye for the wide range of emotion held in it, and whatever his intentions in writing the novel, the complexity of those passions is conveyed. It's a wonderful novel--funny and moving, entertaining and insightful. Highly recommended.	2004-12-20
US	47226334	R37TTU4D667MN2	0321050886	945045184	Comp Tales: An Introduction to College Composition through its Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stories--Not a Bad Way to Learn	I just finished my first semester of graduate school, and during it, I spent a lot of time in classes focused on teaching composition in college. The classes were largely focused on theory and were fairly helpful. However, the most valuable experience of the semester was reading this book (as a supplement to the actual classwork). These tales really helped to make the theory I was reading more relevant.  <br /> <br />The basic premise of the book is that there is a lot of knowledge to be found in the stories surrounding the teaching of college composition, and these stories are largely ignored by teachers and theorists of composition pedagogy. Comp Tales is simply a collection of these largely unedited stories from which the reader may garner what knowledge he or she may. These short stories themselves are often insightful, often humorous, and often heart-breaking. This is an excellent introduction to the adventure that teaching will be.	2004-12-15
US	47226334	R9AHMB4K69MZW	1564782379	336242021	Reckless Eyeballing	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Why Aren't People Reading This Novel?	The novel probably contains the best answer to that question within itself. Reckless Eyeballing is Ishmael Reed's satirical response the feminist movement which often (not always realizing it) has attempted to make its gains by vilifying black men and which has often worked to supress the voices of black men (like Reed himself--who is an excellent and under-read novelist).  <br /> <br />The plot itself is fairly difficult to describe because there are several plays within the novel that are important. The main character is Ian Ball, a playwright who is trying to produce a play that will get him off of the feminist hate lists. His play is being produced by Becky French (a literal femi-nazi who is producing a play hilariously exonerating Eva Braun) and directed by Tremonisha Smarts (authoress of a play--who is largely based on Alice Walker--entitled \\"Wrong-Headed Man\\"), and once the play is in their hands, it turns into an absurdly feministic farce. There are several other things happening in the novel as well. Some man, the flower phantom, is shaving feminists heads, as the French Resistance did to traitors during WWII, and Ian finds himself sympathizing with him. Additionally, there is a bigot detective out to catch the flower phantom who loves Tremonisha's play.  <br /> <br />This novel is often hilarious, particularly when the two plays in the novel are described. It is, as all satires are, also very sad at its heart. There are a lot of people, such as Ian and Tremonisha, who are being used to oppress others, and the novel exposes that. Ultimately, this is a very compassionate novel. Even Tremonisha isn't a detestable figure. She, along with much of the rest of the feminist movement, is just being used by an establishment that is larger and more powerful and is actually evil. Reed's novel has been called inflammatory, but to call it that is to ignore the sympathy in the novel. So many people are oppressed, but the attempt to gain freedom shouldn't necessitate thefinding if a scapegoat.	2004-12-09
US	47226334	R26Z4YZRCK0XI3	0060937254	544304099	The Divine Milieu (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Intense, Intense--This Can Change Your Life	Annie Dillard's \\"For the Time Being\\" is a meditation on the problem of evil and the nature of love, and in that eclectic book she features the life of Pier Teilhard De Chardin, particularly the way this guy lived so passionately despite persecution and oppression by a church he loved. Dillard's beautiful vision of this man and the exerpts from his works that she quoted really got me interested in this great priest. So, when I ran onto The Divine Milieu on the clearance shelf at the bookstore, I bought it, ran home, and read it that night. It didn't disappoint. <br /> <br />There's no way I can do justice to the book. Teilhard was one of the most passionately loving men to live on this earth, and that comes through even in his prose. It's an intense experience reading it. This is not because it's particularly difficult but because there such an urgency, such an intensity of feeling behind it. Teilhard wants action. He wants the reader to get out of his/her seat and throw his/herself passionately into the human endeavor. I don't think you can read this work and not feel the urge to do so. Even his images are astounding. This isn't what you think of when yo think of theological writing. His is the best sort of theological writing--reaching to poetic heights. <br /> <br />Of course, the theology is wonderful, too. It's not just rhetoric divorced from life. In fact, that is Teilhard's primary point. Behold, the kingdom of God is here all around us, in the surrounding lives and, in fact, in all the surrounding world, and we must be working for that kingdom. We must be working in and for unity with God. Read Teilhard's work and just dive in to life.	2004-09-02
US	47226334	R1Q5INNWVU80YU	0060981180	965900568	Mariette in Ecstasy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Mysterious Ways	Mariette is a young woman entering a monastery. She seems to be a near-saint, possibly undergoing a stigmata, and this endears her to some nuns and separates her from others. The events of the novel explore the mysterious nature of mystical experience and of faith. It also explores the ways in which individual motives effect the perceptions of faith.    <br /> <br />This is one of those books that you read in a single sitting and then immediately begin reading it again. This is certainly a novel I will continually return to. Simply reading this gorgeous prose and the mysterious, iradescent images creates an almost numinous experience.	2004-08-29
US	47226334	ROEB1AKAZFS2	0345391837	458212829	So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Amazing Novel	People always astound me because I so rarely agree with them. At least, I disagree with a majority on so many important issues, such as just how good a novel So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish is. In my humble opinion, this is the best novel of the series. I love the rest of the novels in the trilogy (though I haven't read Mostly Harmless yet-most people hate it, so I'm sure I'll love it), but then there comes this fourth one. It has the humor of the earlier novels (and for me surpasses them), has superior narrative features, and has a surprisingly profound underlying philosophy. <br /> <br />In this one, Arthur Dent ends up back on Earth which had been destroyed in the first novel. Fate throws his life into contact with Fenchurch, a woman who senses that something on earth is wrong. She's something of a mystic and something of an angel. What follows is a surprisingly affecting love story and the two lovers' search for the meaning of life. <br /> <br />It's funny, it's romantic, and it's profound. Don't ever think of The Hitchhikers series as simply escapist literature but do enjoy it. This is a great series, and contrary to what a lot of other people say (many of them smarter than me), this is definitely the best novel in the series.  <br />	2004-08-29
US	47226334	R3OLGQGKFVTK1J	006093770X	735377492	The American Dream: Stories from the Heart of Our Nation	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Oh Danny Boy...	First off, I love Dan Rather. He's a wonderful, passionate man whom I love to watch on the news. The problem is, he's not a writer. Not a very good one at least. This book is a noble attempt, but there is just so much that's wrong with it. <br /> <br />For one thing, there is just some bad writing in it. It has a lot of errors in fact and a lot of typos. Among others, he writes that Texas A&M University (rather than Texas Tech) is in Lubbock, and he says that Ryne Sandberg in in the Baseball Hall of Fame (he just should be soon). There is also bad grammar (this is beyond the Texas colloquialisms in the book which I think are fine-I'm a Texan myself). These are fairly small problems, but they are oftly annoying, and they are not good signs in a book written by a journalist who's supposed to report facts. Furthermore, he just has few narrative talents, at least not those required for a book. He tells the stories as a journalist on Headline News would--concise, to the point, and without much flavor. They're just there; the reader is rarely drawn in. <br /> <br />The most glaring flaw, though, is that there are a lot of flaws in logic in the book. For instance, one of the stories is about a ten-year-old boy who realizes that many of the underpriveleged at his school cannot afford school supplies, so he works together an organization that collects and disperses those needed supplies. This is all obviously a good thing. But then, Rather relates a joke told by the boy's mother who said she needed to haul the school supplies around so she \\"traded in [her] Lexus for a Durango, and now [she's] getting a Yukon because the Durango isn't big enough.\\" My problem is the huge contrast here. On one hand, there are all of these kids lacking necessities and the heroes who are helping them are laughing about purchasing one expensive SUV after another for themselves. How is this inequality emblematic of the American Dream? How does this book manage to lament the rising poverty rates andterrible living conditions and still manage to promote excessive materialism? There are some people in the book who are praised for having overcome hardship to make millions (some of them stepping on other people's heads to do so) and others who are praised for having given up millions to help those in need. Frankly, these two \\"ideals\\" don't go together. Nevertheless, these people, according to Rather, have all attained the American dream. There are a lot of contradicting ideas expressed in these stories. Furthermore, I don't really think Rather has a great concept of what the American dream is. When Sister Sylvia Schmidt founds a homeless shelter in Tulsa, OK, I don't think she is following the American Dream. I think she's following dreams that go far beyond the American Dream, and I think she's rejecting the prevalent, primarily materialistic, concept of the American Dream of today's society. <br /> <br />I'm giving the book two stars because I like Dan Rather, and because some of the stories were rather inspiring. Neverthess, it's not a good book. I will continue to watch Dan Rather on tv, but I'm quite sure I won't read a book by him again.	2004-08-27
US	47226334	R3JRHQ58SVEC14	0140185399	972711653	A Burnt-Out Case (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	This Guy is Good	I've been a fan of Greene's for a while now, and so far, I haven't read a bad book. This may be one of his better ones, and that's saying a lot. He is, perhaps, the best and most consistent novelist of the twentieth century. <br /> <br />This is the story of Querry, a famous architect, who realizes he has lost (or never) had the ability to love. He feels nothing but indifference. That is when he embarks into the African jungle looking for escape (or redemption). He lives at a leproserie run by priests, becomes friends with Dr. Colin, and becomes something of a burnt-out case. <br /> <br />Greene is just a superb writer. He has so many sentences and passages, that had he written just that one, someone would have remembered him. His characters are complex and honest depictions. Lastly, his themes of love, faith, redemption, pain, and truth are the great ones. A lot of authors are scared to tackle them or knowingly cannot tackle them. Greene can and does.	2004-08-20
US	47226334	R1P0LV2G2B98JI	0140433112	699806276	The Professor (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	46	49	N	Y	I Wouldn't Recommend It to Everyone, But I Liked It	I read this in a class with a lot of people who love Victorian novels, and almost everyone hated it. By general consensus it was dry and featured an unlikeable main character. For this reason, I wouldn't recommend it to many people. Nevertheless, I generally enjoyed it. It wasn't as good as Jane Eyre or Villette, but I am glad I read it. <br /> <br />It is a love story, and as such, I thought it succeeded. What most people saw as dry, I saw as sparse, unsentimental narration. I thought it made the love story a little more original and fresh for me. Though if this sort of storytelling isn't for you, I definitely wouldn't read it.  <br /> <br />The other problem that most people have with this is the character of William Crimsworth. At times, he is a chauvenist and a racist. These are difficult aspects to overcome for many. <br /> <br />I think there are two ways to see the novel. First, it can be seen as a decent love story between a flawed man and a woman who may offer him redemption. I don't think this is a totally unenjoyable way to read it. You could also see it as a satire on the chauvenistic, supposedly self-reliant Crimsworth. It's probably a little more successful if you see it this way. If you don't like it one way, look at it from the other. Don't read this novel before Jane Eyre or Villette, but this can be a pretty good read.	2004-08-19
US	47226334	R1S734S824T4S8	0192833642	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A Big, Compassionate Novel	Early in the novel, Eliot tells the great story of St. Ogg, who selflessly carried the Virgin Mary across a flooded river. The story pretty much frames the themes of the whole novel. The society of The Mill on the Floss is harsh, and the main characters must find it in themselves to live compassionately despite actions of the people aroung them.<br /><br />This tragedy is primarily the story of Maggie. Her father's unwitting actions spark the family's financial downfall. In the Victorian society, this downfall is particularly harsh toward women like Maggie. She has to struggle against the deterministic forces fighting against her.<br /><br />A lot of people don't like the opening hundred pages, but I thought they were some of the best. There was some wonderful biting humor, some extraordinary characterizations (particularly of Mr. Tulliver), some powerful imagery (look at the descriptions of the river), and real humanity. These elements carry on throughout the novel, and the plot picks up, too. Overall, this is a wonderful novel. Perhaps it is not Eliot's best, but it is too good to pass up.	2004-08-18
US	47226334	R1OJYIK6BRLBMM	0140431187	109240111	Villette (English Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Almost as Good as Jane Eyre---And That's a Compliment	Of course, Jane Eyre is Charlotte Bronte's most popular novel, and I would agree that Villette, at least in terms of reading experience, does not live up to that masterpiece. It almost does, though. Villette is one of the most haunting novels I've ever read. The characters are complex and intriguing, and the novel has a leisurely pace that I really enjoyed.  <br /> <br />The story follows Lucy Snow, an intelligent, though cold, Englishwoman who is teaching in a French school. Lucy is a dreamer who is prone to depression. She is looking for emotional, social, intellectual, and spiritual freedom, and when this foreign society frustrates her attempts she often recedes into despair. Her character, along with Paul Emanuel's, must ungerdo some changes if she ever going to learn to live. <br /> <br />Overall, Villette was an entertaining and intelligent read. Bronte is a superb writer. I do recommend that you find an edition with the French translations in the back. There is a lot of French dialogue (which can be annoying sometimes) that is essential to the reading. Once this is done, Villette is an extraordinary read.	2004-08-16
US	47226334	R5LPUREWJF8QX	0553211404	363093333	Jane Eyre (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Quest for Freedom	Jane Eyre has an odd place in literary history. It is one of the most compelling reads ever written, and in my opinion, it uncovers so much about the nature of being a human. The novel's a page-turner for its entertainment value as well as for its ability to enlighten.<br /><br />Jane is a poor orphan born in a society that fights her ability to attain financial, emotional, sexual, and spiritual freedom. From the beginning of the novel, Jane is on a quest to gain her liberation. Of course, she cannot do so by herself. She must retain enough fortitude to be her true self, and she must be an instrument of grace, of change, in the life of Rochester.<br /><br />Everything in the novel conspires toward the creation of a near-perfect novel. I cannot believe I waited so long to experience this masterpiece, but I will certainly be returning to it over and over through the rest of my life. This novel cannot be missed by anyone who wants to read truly great literature or by anyone who just wants to experience a great read.	2004-08-15
US	47226334	ROTHSDN3DOCAQ	046087490X	365726027	Oliver Twist (Dickens Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Dickens the Muckracker	I read Oliver Twist for a college class and didn't really expect to like it. It was going to be one of those long, dull Victorian meganovels. I was wrong. Oliver Twist was surprisingly undated. The issues Dickens is analyzing and the societal practices he ridicules are very much debated in this day. The humor is still vibrant as is his rage. The plot and characterizations are pretty thrilling, too.<br /><br />The novel is, obviously, the story of Oliver Twist, an innocent orphan who has to fight the evils of society in order to attain a place of happiness. Most notable among his enemies are Mr. Bumble at the workhouse, Fagin the founder of a crime organization that ensnares Oliver, Sikes the murderer, and Monk the mysterious figure in the background. Oliver must use his strength of character and purity, along with the sacrifices of Nancy, and the support of some wealthy people he encounters to fight his way to freedom.<br /><br />Dickens's writing is wonderful. His descriptions of the society's treatment of the poor are alive with biting humor and scorn. The protagonist is memorable and loveable. The ending is slightly weak but is, for the most part, satisfying. Overall, Oliver Twist is the classic that it is supposed to be (or better), and is well worth the read.	2004-08-11
US	47226334	R36ZJNLZKYE9BZ	0822332213	625634002	Dissent from the Homeland: Essays after September 11	Books	5	8	11	N	N	&quot;He who has ears, let him hear...&quot;	There are many people who believe that America is now facing the greatest enemy in its history. I am one of the them; the difference is that I don't think that enemy is some vague dark cloud called &quot;terror&quot; enveloping everything outside the borders of the United States. The greatest enemy we faces is ourselves. The events of September 11 should have incited an awakening. Americans should have begun to realize how the United States, in its relentless pursuit of its own happiness, has trampled on all of the people of the rest of the world. In America's blind selfishness, American has inflicted unbelievable pain. In the wake of September 11, the American public should have begun to see its own pride, assumed responsibility for the atrocities it has caused, and made changes. Instead, America managed to become even more supercilious, enveloping itself in self-serving lies (most propagated by the Bush administration and the media), lies that America is &quot;good&quot; and &quot;they&quot; are &quot;evil,&quot; lies encouraging Americans to thrash out against the world blindly and violently. <br />Thank God, there are still some people who can see and who can hear. Thank God, they have the courage to say the truth even when the masses don't want to hear it. In Dissent from the Homeland, religious scholars and theologians have analyzed America's abhorrent response to September 11 and are fighting back with words against the forces of lovelessness and lawlessness threatening America.<br />Dissent from the Homeland is the most eye-opening book I have read in a longtime. These essays approach the response to September 11 from historical, aesthetic, sociological, and ethical perspectives, and the insights they offer are really astounding (my favorite essays are those by Wendell Berry and Stanley Hauerwas). American life is certainly in peril, and if the United States wants to save itself, it should begin here.	2004-06-29
US	47226334	R1ZSSZPDXG294Z	0060574607	495578543	The Book of the Dun Cow	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Poignant and Exciting	I'm a pretty big fantasy fan. My favorites are usually the classics like Watership Down, Lord of the Rings, and The Neverending Story. The Book of the Dun Cow certainly stands with these masterpieces. In fact, The Book of the Dun Cow, in my opinion, probably surpasses them.<br />The fantasy is set in an animal kingdom around a chicken coop. Chauntecleer is the rooster of the coop, in charge of all of the animals in the surrounding forest. Chauntecleer is a strong and noble, though flawed, leader who guides the peaceful creatures who depend on him. The peace is broken when the Ultimate Evil tries to break through into dominion over this world. Chauntecleer's kingdom has to find the courage and strength the fight the evil forces of the part rooster, part snake Cockatrice.<br />This is one exciting book. There are such strong characters (such as Chauntecleer and Mundo Cani Dog) that you fall in love with. There are the exciting epic battles to be fought. The real greatness of this novel is its spiritual depth. In this battle between good and evil, Chauntecleer and Mundo Cani Dog and the others are only able to fight because of their faith and the spiritual exercises they practice. They are only able to fight back and do the right thing because of the strength offered them by the Dun Cow. This is an extraordinary novel that almost anybody would love.	2004-06-28
US	47226334	R1TFOMJ36T41HX	055321229X	586419329	Silas Marner (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Classic Tale of Redemption	This is an odd little book, but it's a good one. It's odd because the famous story of the old miser who is redeemed by taking in an angelic little girl to raise doesn't really even begin until half-way through the novel. This was definitely a surprise to me, but it wasn't a bad one. It ends up that there is a lot more to this novel than I thought there would be. In that first half of the novel, George Eliot brilliantly elucidates the fallen nature of both Silas Marner and the community. They're are revealed to be such selfish and sinful people. They are all in the throws of despair, lamenting their plight as humans and questioning a God who placed them in their lives. Eliot is really wonderful at capturing the need of each individual for redemption and also that need in the community as a whole. The individuals are criticized as is the unfair societal structure. Into this fallen world comes the angelic Eppie, and that's when the story really picks up. Eppie is the catalyst of grace offering redemption to Silas and the rest of the community.<br />Silas Marner is really an extraordinary little novel. It's a thoroughly enjoyable book (especially after you get through the first half) with a lot of valid criticism and some hope. It's a really beautiful little classic.	2004-06-27
US	47226334	R3I8845SKFMWA4	0679749861	967695947	Race Matters	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Eye-Opening	I'm not very surprised at the contrasting reviews posted here. Considering the extraordinarily divided state of the nation, it's almost impossible to say anything serious without making half of the people angry. Furthermore, I think most people would like to pretend that everything is going alright, and ideas that shake things up or that look at reality from a different angle aren't going to be popular. At least, not right away. Cornel West's ideas are these types, revealing the reality of the African-American condition in an America that worships the market and loses sight of a humanity in need of hope and an actual opportunity to achieve those things hoped for, an America that refuses to offer love to those most in need. Cornel West's ideas admit that America is not a totally perfect place, and we need to change some things. We need to wake up. The ideas in this book are essential to read, and it is essential that we make the changes West calls for. This doesn't just effect African-Americans, this is something to save all Americans. If the views in this book irritate you, you should probably read it again. If an idea bugs you enough, it probably means there is something there you need to learn, even if you do not ultimately agree with everything. If the ideas in Race Matters strike you, you need to act. We must all act out passionately, with compassion and love, to change things so that we may save ourselves.	2004-06-25
US	47226334	R3KU1EMO2B14YZ	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For All Losers Out There	There's a great passage in High Fidelity where Rob talks about all of the sad songs about broken hearts he has listened to in his life. He's listened to them over and over thousands of times, and he wonders if he likes them because he's so miserable or if he's so miserable because he has listened to those songs. When I read the passage, I just about died laughing. I've asked the same question of myself, only substituting books for songs. <br />In a way, High Fidelity is a great book because of what this passage is talking about, though. It's a novel written about a loser for losers (like me) to read. Rob is a sad and miserable thirty-five year old who refuses to grow up, and we can relate. I could, at least. Nick Hornby knows who his audience is. His audience is people who have been through spoiled by the society in which they've been raised and haven't yet learned how to actually live. Rob is this person and he ultimately begins to grow up, and he gives all losers some hope. High Fidelity is an engaging, funny, and pretty wise novel that a lot of people can relate to.	2004-06-24
US	47226334	RHS5TQKDRYGO3	0312243243	150749575	The Second Coming: A Novel	Books	5	70	76	N	N	Wise and Beautiful	When I read books, I mark up the text and write in the margins pretty thoroughly, and when I am finished with the book, I go back through and copy down my favorite passages. Usually there is only one or two quotes to write down, but The Second Coming was a different matter. Walker Percy has such extraordinary insights and power with words that passage after passage, with their humor, wisdom, and beauty, pierces straight through me. It took me two hours to copy all of the passages I wanted. <br />The Second Coming is one of the greatest novels that I have ever read, and that is partly because of the quirky story at its heart. Will Barrett, a rich and successful widower, is trapped in his life, a sort of living death. His big first step begins to happen in the first wonderful episode of the novel when he is playing golf and begins to realize it. &quot;Knowing about what is going to happen is having a chance to escape it. If you don't know about it, it will certainly happen to you.&quot; From there, Will begins to try to find how to live his life. The other primary character is Allison, a girl escaped from a mental hospital now trying to find out how to live in a world totally new to her. Together, they embark on a quest to be born again into life. <br />The Second Coming is one of the greatest novels I have ever read. Percy was trained as a physician, and he took those skills to literature. In The Second Coming, he diagnoses American society and tries to find a cure. There is some real wisdom there and most importantly, some real hope. This is a novel that is vastly underrated and one that should not be missed (along with all of Percy's other novels).	2004-06-22
US	47226334	R32T4QZY3WRSGA	078795599X	52865741	A New Kind of Christian: A Tale of Two Friends on a Spiritual Journey	Books	4	12	18	N	N	Successful Primer	I had been hearing a little bit about this book, and since I live in an extremely conservative part of the country, not a lot of what I was hearing was positive. I decided to read this book just to see what it was. Overall, I was pleased with the book (not a huge surprise since I normally disagree with the people around me). A New Kind of Christian may certainly help many Christians into a period of growth.<br />I did have a few problems with some of McLaren's ideas, though that's not a problem itself. Who am I going to agree with on everything? What's important is that there is dialogue, and that's a point that McLaren himself makes in the book. The tone he sets in the dialogue is pretty refreshing, too. McLaren isn't combative; this is a discussion more than a debate. The format of the book isn't a problem either (though for some people it seems to be something hard to get used to). In the postmodern world, telling a story and allowing the reader to search for the meaning is definitely the best way to present ideas. My problem with the story/dialogue format wasn't in the format itself but in the way it was carried out. The writing was is, at times, horrid. It's often corny and overly sentimental. The writing's just awful sometimes, and it distracts from the message. Nevertheless, the ideas do come through, and the writing isn't nearly bad enough to make this not worth reading.<br />It should also be mentioned that this is kind of a beginners guide to postmodern Christianity. Early in the book, the character Neo (terrible name) says that he's trying not to explain philosophers such as Foucault, Derrida, Fish, and Baudrillard, and he doesn't mention any of them again. If you've studied these philosophers before reading A New Kind of Christian, there's is going to be a lot of simplification and repetition. There are some true insights in this book that I thought made it worthwhile, but a lot of it was old to me. That's not a bad thing because McLaren's target readership hasn't read much postmodern philosophy, but those who have may want to read something else. McLaren's aim is to create an introduction to postmodernism, and in this, he was a success. This is a great beginning to a dialogue that must continue.	2004-06-15
US	47226334	RVK08ILH1SIR4	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I Laugh, I Cry, and I Read It Again	It's a really scary thing to be sane in a world that is insane. That's pretty much Yossarian's problem. He knows that the war going on around him and the people controlling things are crazy. Life, for Yossarian, is one enormous Catch-22; it often seems to be run by forces either hostile or totally indifferent to the human condition. All humanity can come up with is a sort of economic/power hierarchy through which they try to remain blind to the state of life. Capitalism has run amok, as have bureaucracies. Yossarian is alientated and trapped in near-despair and trying to figure out how a sane man is to live in a world that is against him? <br />Catch-22 is one of the truly great novels of the twentieth century because it is so honest and so penetrating. It's not just a war novel; Catch-22 is a novel that really encompasses the current human dilemma. Yossarian is really an Everyman character trying to live in the postmodern age. His choice is seemingly whether he should choose to die as a victim of the crazy world or choose a living death by buying into the insanity. That's why this novel is so affecting and why Yossarian resonates with so many people. He's in the same situation. He faces the same choices in this life. Ultimately, Catch-22 is a towering novel for its hope as Yossarian finally finds the courage to live.<br />I can't really say enough good about Catch-22. It's is funny and touching and so human. It's really a novel that shouldn't be missed.	2004-06-11
US	47226334	R3JO0CP1LU8VNS	0141000023	284000734	The Gates of the Alamo	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Sometimes Slow, But a Good Read	My sister fought for two years to get me to read this novel. I fought against reading it for a long time, primarily because of its length and subject matter that I've heard about a bit too much in my life (I've grown up within two hours of the Alamo). Anyway, I'm glad I finally read The Gates of the Alamo. The story is almost always engaging and is more historically accurate than the other retellings of the battle. That was refreshing to see some real characters with flaws and sometimes less-than-honorable motivations. This was a worthwile read.<br />The strength and weakness of the novel come it its multitude of characters. The many characters give different points of view of the battle, and that's a real plus. You get to see the different motivations and emotions that the battle brings out. Mary Mott shows the mother's perspective, Joe gives the slave viewpoint, Terrell the young patriot's, and Blas and Telesforo tell the Mexicans' side of it. Edmund is my favorite character throughout because he takes on a little more substance than the others. The many characters is also a flaw, though, because some of the characters aren't developed as well as other, or their story isn't overly important. I liked the idea of telling the stories of the Mexican soldiers, but neither Blas nor Telesforo were really a success. Blas is likeable, but he isn't connected with any of the other characters, and his story's end is abrupt and inconclusive. Telesforo is probably the most unlikeable of the primary characters, and it's such a drag to come to a chapter about him and know that you have to wade through ten more pages about him. <br />There are certainly strong reasons to read the novel. It is, at least largely, historically accurate, something hard to find with all of the myth surrounding the Alamo. The Texians weren't exactly the good guys as my Texas History class would have you believe, and Harrigan tells the truth of it. I think he also gets a sense of the battle pretty well.The little side stories are also pretty engaging (though he could have ended them a little sooner). Overall, The Gates of the Alamo is a fine read. History lovers, particularly Texas history lovers, will find a lot to like.	2004-06-10
US	47226334	R1BMK7MUL7IX00	0316926086	926124045	The Loved One	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This Book Really Bites (In the Good Way)	I didn't really know what to expect of this novel since is is thought of as one of Waugh's minor novels. After reading The Loved One, I can't see why this is considered one of the lesser works. The Loved One is one of the most hilarious and true novels I have ever read. Waugh is wise to some of the darker aspects of human nature, and he possesses the ability to open up the readers eyes to that reality.<br />The plot centers on a love triangle between Dennis, Aimee, and Mr. Joyboy. All of them work in the funeral industry in Hollywood which Waugh uses to lambaste the commercialism of our culture and the selfishness and heartlessness that produces it. At times, the novel is hilarious, such as when Mr. Joyboy tries to express his love for Aimee through the smiles on the corpses he prepares, but the novel is always dark. These people are trying to find true life and love, but they are in despair and are unable of achieving happiness.<br />The Loved One is an absolutely brilliant novel by of the the twentieth century's great novelists. Certainly, read his most popular works such as Brideshead Revisited (my favorite), A Handful of Dust, and Scoop, but don't let yourself miss this one.	2004-05-28
US	47226334	R2Q7R4Q6DDXENH	1853261068	735425782	Moonfleet (Wordsworth's Children's Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Exciting and Somewhat Original	When I began reading this book, a friend of mine took one look at the cover and started naming off what he thought the aspects of the plot were. He named all of the traditional pirate story cliches (sometimes platitudes): orphaned boy, evil pirate, hidden treasure, etc. By looking at the cover, I thought that was what it would be too, and I looked forward to the classic adventure story (I've always loved swashbucklers). As it was, Moonfleet is a very original novel that doesn't follow of the conventions. Surely, some of those elements are there--the orphaned boy and treasure--but they are twisted in different ways. Moonfleet is somewhat darker than other swashbucklers such as Treasure Island, and there are actually no pirates at all. There is also a little bit more depth of characterization as John Trenchard and Elziver Block have a long and meaningful friendship. Moonfleet is certainly a superior adventure novel, complete with exciting escapes (a lot of them), lost treasure, and some actual characterization. It's well worth reading.	2004-05-26
US	47226334	R37FW83Z1RXYFV	0670031755	289680242	Abraham Lincoln (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Really Good Overview	I'm only a casual reader of history and biographies. I didn't want to read a thousand-page work about Lincoln's extraordinary life. I only wanted an overview, some sort of work to give me a sense of the man. For my purposes, this little biography by Thomas Keneally was a success. It's brief, but it hits all of the most important points of the presidents life. It captures the contradictions and conflicts that marked Lincoln's life, and it does so with, at times, soem true lyricism. Keneally is a good writer (though his fiction such as Schindler's List is much better) and particularly over the first part of this biography, that is evident. The biography only suffers during the last half when Lincoln seems to disappear behind Keneally's depiction of the war. I don't think Lincoln's great role and conflicts during the war were aptly shown. Also, the biography ended too abruptly with no attempt at summation. I know that the Penguin Lives reach for brevity, but this is one of the shorter books in that series. Keneally could have given Lincoln another twenty pages and still been under 200 pages. Nevertheless, this biography is good, certainly serving its purpose as an overview that will answer essential questions and incite further inquiry into life of one of America's greatest presidents.	2004-05-26
US	47226334	R2ROHN5SD30OHH	0553579525	121142412	The Moor (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Read During a Thunderstorm	I'm rather surprised by the several negative reviews of The Moor. Certainly, it is a little different from the other Mary Russell novels, but I found it to be so enjoyable, only falling short of The Beekeeper's Apprentice. The pace moves like a little stroll in the park, and it's thoroughly pleasant. Mary Russell is, as always, a charming character, and I really enjoyed Holmes and Russell's quiet, rather loving interactions in this novel. The stately character of Sabine Baring-Gould (an extraordinary person in his real life also) overlooking Russell and Holmes in their treks across the moor also adds a lot to the novel, some sense of old English nostalgia. His presense as an old, sometimes difficult, friend also allows for further character development of the two primary characters. Sure, the mystery does take a backseat in the novel. With two dominant characters like Russell and Holmes, it seems there's little room left for plot, but that is how every Mary Russell novel seems to me. It's not a bad thing. Overall, I truly enjoyed The Moor. It's another excellent read in the series and is just a wonderful novel for light afternoon reading. I can't wait to read the next Mary Russell novel.	2004-05-15
US	47226334	R2CBF7AOPFGW29	0684830515	781452863	The Sun Also Rises (Scribner Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Apt Diagnosis	In high school, I went through a stage where I read a lot of Hemingway, and I really didn't like any of it. I kept reading it, though I don't think I ever understood that little masochistic streak. Now, after returning to Hemingway with this novel, I think I see a little more clearly. Hemingway's &quot;The Sun Also Rises&quot; is such an accomplished look at the lost generation, and I think the experience of those lost searchers really parallels in so many ways the experience of my generation (and probably that of every subsequent generation). This novel really resonated with me.<br />It's the story of Jake and several other moneyed expatriates who wander through Europe trying to forget their despair and trying to hide from their unhappiness. They wander through meaningless episode after meaningless episode, though at times, there are luminous moments where the characters truly connect with one another (during the fishing trip and when Jake and Brett are together), and you see what might have been or what could be if they could only break out of their current empty existences. The Sun Also Rises is a poignant, heart-breaking work with an abundance of meaning for today.	2004-05-11
US	47226334	R2WNUXD5GWMDUQ	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Ha Ha He He Ha Ha!!.	This book made me laugh.<br />Rather a lot actually. Ignatius Reilly is disgusting in just about every way imaginable, and man is it funny. His extraordinary opinions (about everything), plots, mannerisms, size, hygiene, and friends bring him and the people around him into the most absurd situations imaginable, and it's all you can do to keep from getting a stomach ache laughing at them so hard (the ab exercise this novel offers is truly remarkable). Each of the characters, Jones (my favorite), Ignatius's mother, Trixi (my other favorite), Mr. and Mrs. Levy, Patrolman Mancuso, strikes me as a literary comic marvel. The whirlwind plot ensnaring all of these lives is so brilliant. You can feel the comic tensions building and building until a final explosion hits that is as large as Ignatius himself.<br />The book is also sad. Walker Percy (my favorite author) mentions in the introduction the suicide of the author, and that is part of the sadness. But there's more. The humor in the novel springs from the latent despair in each characters lives and their (for the most part) stuggle to change something. It feels as though the fates are in control of the novel, and they are out to offer a bit of sorrow and a bit of hope.<br />Confederacy of Dunces is a book that can be taken a lot of ways. As entertainment, this is one of the most funny books I've read, but there is a sense of gravity here making this one of the most remarkable novels I've read. It's quite a masterpiece that I'll read again and again.	2004-05-01
US	47226334	R1W2S2Q3AX2RB5	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Happily Ever After	I'm a really big reader, but it is still rare when a book gets me like this one did. I don't really know what it was, but from the beginning, I was hooked and kept reading and reading until I finished. There was even a moment our two where I noticed myself shaking from the pure joy of this read. Ella Enchanted is exciting, with nearly every chapter ending in cliffhanger. It is funny, Ella's curse of obediance and her extraordinary wit providing most of the laughs. It is dark at times, which any great fantasy must be. And that darkness is overshadowed by Ella's humor, love, and indomitable will. Ella Enchanted is one of the most truly enchanting reads I have ever had, and I know that every time I am the least bit down, I will be able to pick this one up a feel fine.	2004-04-21
US	47226334	RBH33RGWWIZUH	0763617229	951349864	The Tale of Despereaux: Being the Story of a Mouse, a Princess, Some Soup, and a Spool of Thread	Books	5	89	98	N	N	Enchanting Fable	A few months ago, I read a little blurb about this novel, and I couldn't wait to read it. Then, it won the Newberry Award, and I finally got hold of a copy. It didn't disappoint. The Tale of Despereaux is one of the most enchanting little stories I've ever read, and I have a feeling it's going to go down as a true children's classic.<br />The story is so entrancing. It centers around a mouse named Despereaux who just doesn't fit in with the other mice. He is born with his eyes opened. He sees a beautiful world that the others are blind to, and he is shunned because of it. He is able to hear music, and he is able to love creatures of other races. For instance, this tiny mouse falls in love with the human Princess Pea, and that begins quite a chain of events.<br />Of course, not everything in the story is happy. There is also a dark world that the novel doesn't hide from. There are characters who have had little chance in life and have been harmed because of it. There are characters here who have lead dark lives and are trying to destroy Princess Pea and Despereaux. But, ultimately, this isn't a dark novel but one proclaiming a message about love and hope and the possibility of redemption. It is a beautiful little novel about having the courage to bring some light into the world. The Tale of Despereaux is an amazing novel for people of every age which will be read for an oftly long time.	2004-04-09
US	47226334	R3BVSMIQZP9TVT	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Man This One Blew Me Away!	I read this novel for a college class in young adult literature, and when I began it, I wasn't just thrilled. I thought this was the basic science fiction novel that I had read dozens of times before. There wasn't going to be anything special here. But, I went on, and it didn't take very long to convert me. This is a special book that captivates you, and if you look deep enough, has the power to change you.<br />The plot centers around Ender, a child genious charges with the task of developing his mental abilities into military skills to defeat an alien race who had attacked the earth years before. This novel presents his years in school, playing inventive warrior games in space, and his attempt to save the world. He struggles with relationships with the other students (since he is a genious), with the powers trying to manipulate him, and with the intense need to succeed at war games.<br />The plot is so exciting and entertaining, but the novel also raises a lot of questions. There are the ethical questions about war and power, and there is a strong message about love and empathy. The novel also examines the life of children who are smarter than their peers, and it roles of teachers in students life. There is also an insightful discussion about &quot;games&quot; and reality. Lastly, there is Ender's struggle to obtain freedom from the forces manipulating him. His sister Valentine makes the claim that he can't obtain true freedom except by accepting the roles offered to him by the people who love him. He does choose to serve the people he loves and gains some purpose and happiness. I thought it was a powerful message from a truly wonderful novel.	2004-04-09
US	47226334	R2STU9FBTEW3E8	0316926345	951028418	Brideshead Revisited	Books	5	154	162	N	N	Grace	This is a fairly sizeable novel. It would normally take me about three days with pretty substantial reading time during those days. But there was just something about it, and I made time and read this one pretty much straight through. It is easily one of the most wonderful novels I have ever read.<br />There is so much to like about it. There is sheer joy in reading Waugh's prose as small nuggets of humor and beauty are uncovered throughout. The characters are pretty over-the-top (done on purpose) which makes them entertaining, but the depth of the characters is the truly striking thing. It's usually between the lines, but these characters are changing dramatically throughout, and for the better. I think the theological discussion running throughout the novel is what really makes it rise to true greatness. Waugh's making a compelling argument for a moral universe, and he is revealing what God's grace may look like working in people's lives. <br />Brideshead Revisited is true masterpiece that really cannot be missed by any lover of literature or by any person looking for some meaning out there. It's a joy in every sense of the word. This is one book I'm going to come back to.	2004-03-18
US	47226334	RM0E5I9SQSJCR	0679729771	587113700	002: Maus II: A Survivor's Tale: And Here My Troubles Began (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Cuts Through the Numbness	There is only one problem with Holocaust movies and books such as Schindler's List, The Pianist, and Night: there are a lot of them. They tell these grim, heartbreaking stories which we ought never forget, lest we repeat them, but I fear that the overload of Holocaust images sometimes does the opposite. There is so much that they almost take on a marked unreality. We can almost become numb to them.<br />Then, there comes Maus, with the same type of horrors, the same type of events, but it manages to break through that numbness. The visual images are somewhat problematic, but I think it almost serves to make them more compelling, helping the bare emotion come screaming off the page. The modern relationship with Vladek and Art adds to the immediacy and modern relavence of the story also.<br />Maus is a powerful read and one which is essential for anyone studying the Holocaust.	2004-02-19
US	47226334	R1L0ZBVBGQSTLU	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Deserves all the praise it gets. It really does.	I read The Catcher in the Rye a couple of years ago in high school, and since then, I have recommended it to a number of people. Most of them have hated it. This is one of those books that you either love or hate, and I can't always pin what type of person is going to hate it or love it. Nevertheless, I am definitely one of the people who really connects with Holden, and I have returned to this novel over and over.<br />I really connect with Holden in this novel because basically, it is about the problem of pain, and everyone has dealt with that biggy before. I really think Holden's struggle in the novel is an authentic one, and it strikes me like my own. Holden is devastated by the loss of his brother Allie. He loved him and the world took him away, and now Holden does not know how to act in such a world. He doesn't know how to be intimate with anyone anymore. He doesn't understand how other adults cope, and he thinks they are phony. Of course, many of them are phonies, and Holden himself has resorted to being one in an attempt to divert himself from the painful realities of living. He would rather project his false self than let his real one be hurt, but Holden, unlike many of those around him, is at least on the way to not being authentic. I think all of his actions throughout the novel center around his struggle with pain. He is either trying to divert himself (with Sunny and Sally) or he is trying to fight through it (with Phoebe and possibly, Jane). And near the end, I think he is finally beginning to make a breakthrough, when he is able to care for Phoebe and resolve to stay near her despite the fact that she is a person who he cannot control and who may hurt him. He seems to find some redemption from Phoebe's love.<br />I really find The Catcher in the Rye to be one of the great books I've read. I think there are so many things you can take away from it, and I feel that Holden's struggles are so real and so relavent to (at least my) life. The novels one of the true classics of the last century, and I can't really see its popularity diminishing for a while.	2004-02-10
US	47226334	R1LFN3E84JCA05	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There's No Such Thing as Trivia	This should have been the most boring book in the history of writing. The plot: a man wakes each morning at 4:00, and we get a couple of pages of his thoughts while he is making a fire. The Things he talks about: his pet duck, needing to pee, the best way to shave, and how well belly-button lint burns. Yes, belly-button lint. This should have been either a really boring novel or a really irritating one, but it was neither. Nicholas Baker finds in this world of minutia a lot to live for and a lot to write about.<br />A Box of Matches is at turns humorous, touching, and wise. It's quick and light and entertaining, and you come away with a little greater appreciation for the smallest things in life. It's a truly worthwhile and life-affirming read.	2004-01-25
US	47226334	R2CD5YFEHCGIIX	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I'm Glad I Picked This One Up	When I got to college, I found that I was pretty-much the only person at the university who hadn't read this high school. For some reason, my teacher didn't use it. But this book kept coming up in discussions. It seemed to me that a lot of the people around me had been able to relate to Knowles's novel and it seemed that a lot had benefited from reading it. Anyway, I had to read it to see if I could see and feel what they fealt. I did.<br />A Separate Peace is about a lot of things. It's about the deep, though fragile, friendship between Gene and Finny. It's about how we manage do create identity and how we should. It's about the battles we create, the jealousies we foster, and the people we destroy. Lastly, it's about the sacrifices we can choose to make.<br />A Separate Peace is a wonderfully written book. I can see why it has been loved (an hated-the truth hurts) by so many. It's certainly a masterpiece that I'm so glad I went back and discovered.	2003-12-23
US	47226334	R3KIAY9PL0IV4V	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Take this Lightly	I spent a lot of time last semester in a class hearing one of my favorite professors (a brilliant, highly respected medievalist) making fun of this novel. He had read The Da Vinci Code out of curiosity, and Dan Brown's &quot;scholarship&quot; became his joke of the semester. Anyway, I had to read it so that I could be in on the joke. I did enjoy The Da Vinci Code somewhat, but I certainly don't think this is anything to take too seriously.<br />The book was written as Brown's way of advocating an imaginative reinterpretation of history (which several people have made before). I don't really have any problem with this reinterpretation. It's certainly compelling and interesting to read about. He certainly has the right to write it. If you do much research on the subject, though, you'll find that it's oftly improbable, and you'll find that Brown warped a few facts and ignored others. My main problem with the book is that Brown is audacious enough to predict how these ideas would change Christianity and the world, and his predictions show ignorance, particularly of Christian theology. The ideas here aren't all that revolutionary, and even if they were true, they wouldn't change anything. Just some examples are Brown's ideas on women's role and on God's gender that are already in the Bible (though they've often been misinterpreted) and Brown's ideas about Christ's divinity which don't follow logically from his arguments about Mary Magdalene and Jesus.<br />I did enjoy the novel, though. It is compelling and entertaining, but DON'T think this is great literature (my professor was right about it), and don't take these ideas too seriously.	2003-12-22
US	47226334	RJDA7W8K5XFYZ	0375703470	330767071	For the Time Being	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Mystery	For the Time Being is one of my favorite books. Annie Dillard, as always, is taking on the Big questions. She's asking the questions that we all have to ask (whether we realize it or not), and she does so in the most honest, most innovative, and most insightful ways possible.<br />In For the Time Being, Dillard is exploring the problem of evil. She discusses such horrors as birth defects, torture, and mass murders, and she cries out to God, &quot;What's with all the bird-headed dwarfs!&quot; She's referring to a debilitating birth defect. She's asking how does God allow such atrocities? Is there a God if this type of world exists?<br />Dillard reviews the traditional arguments about the problem of evil. Her conclusion: &quot;I don't know beans about God.&quot; She quotes Augustine, &quot;We're talking about God. What wonder is it you do not understand? If you do understand, then it is not God.&quot; But though she doesn't understand God, she still does decide to live in a universe for love. Love (=God) is still worth living for, and that's her message, I think. Delve into the mystery that is God and that is love.<br />I can't do justice to this book. It is one of those that I love a bit too much. Just read it. It's an experience like no other.	2003-12-17
US	47226334	RXW95JGR2MAAS	0679752730	813841142	The Axe: The Master of Hestviken, Vol. 1	Books	5	56	57	N	N	Powerful, Luminous Stuff	I had never read anything by Sigrid Undset until I read this novel, though I had wanted to for a while. Reading Undset sounded like a reading experience that couldn't be replicated, Who else is a female, Nobel-Prize-winning, Norwegian, historic novelist whose work is compared to Tolstoy's. Anyway, after reading The Axe (not even considered her best work), I would say she certainly lived up to my expectations.<br />The basic plot follows Olav Audunsson and Ingunn Steinfinnsdatter (don't be scared away by the names). They were betrothed as children under rather mysterious circumstances and were then raised together. Eventually, the two fall in love, and want to finally get married, seeing as they were betrothed to one another anyway. Times have changed, though, and the powers that be have decided to marry them off elsewhere. Olav and Ingunn vow to fight for their marriage, and the remainder of the action is this intense struggle.<br />The novel is superb. The writing at some moments, particularly the early love scenes, is truly sublime, with the lush imagery set up against the unique medieval Norwegian backdrop. I had to read a number of passages over and over just to reexperience their beauty. The moral scope of the novel also strikes me as particularly powerful and certainly invites comparison to Tolstoy. The events of the novel are all marked by a sin early in the novel which sends everyone into a moral tailspin. The characters are trapped in a moral maelstrom of their own making and in their struggle to find some sort of redemption is the ultimate meaning of the novel.<br />The Axe is one of the best novels I have ever read. Sigrid Undset cannot be forgotten. I can scarcely wait to read the rest of the Hestviken saga.	2003-12-17
US	47226334	RKMRVZ11XOA8L	0440471478	998471830	The Pushcart War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Pushcarts Won't Be Pushed Around	I read Jean Merrill's The Pushcart War when I was in the fifth grade and loved it. I remember it as one of the books that started me to reading, and so, I wanted to reread it now, years later. It hasn't diminished a bit. In fact, I may like it more.<br />It's an absurd story, saturated with humor. The trucks have decided to take over the streets of New York, and the first target is the motley crew of pushcart drivers. The pushcarts won't be pushed around, though. These eccentrics such as General Anna, Morris the Florist, Frank the Flower, and Maxie Hammerman, the Pushcart King, fight back with every means possible with hilarious results.<br />The books is so entertaining, but there is some depth to it. At its base, it reveals the absurdity of humanity and our petty drives and acts of selfishness that escalate even into war. There is a lot here for adults. There is also a lot of lessonse to be learned by children. It's truly a book for everyone to laugh at and learn from.	2003-12-14
US	47226334	R1F20WDQ0NZ4G	0803271069	380650707	The Cold-and-Hunger Dance	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Quite a Surprise	Diane Glancy did a reading at my college (Abilene Christian University) two years ago, and I wasn't very impressed. Subsequently, I wasn't thrilled when this book was assigned to me during a course this semester. I put it off until the last minute. But then, I read it. And it blew me away. It's left me wondering who I was two years ago and trying to remember what I didn't like about her (I can't remember).<br />The Cole-And-Hunger Dance is a beautiful collection of essays, poems, narratives, and things that don't really fit into any category. Each page glistens with a gorgeous prose style, with the author's wit and compassion, and with her shocking and profound ideas. Glancy is capturing the essense of the journey of her life, her attempts to fit in a world when she is half Cherokee and half white. It captures her attempt to come to terms with her Christian faith and Cherokee heritage (which she does with profound insight). And above all, this book glistens with her love for the healing power of language. Her image of &quot;Christ as spirit, as story&quot; runs through the book and really encompasses it. The Cold-And-Hunger Dance is a powerful and beautiful book, particularly for those trying to find some hope and healing in a chaotic mess of a world.	2003-11-12
US	47226334	R2WFP8MBJBNVB3	0140254587	694403107	Salvation on Sand Mountain: Snake-Handling and Redemption in Southern Appalachia	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Striking	Salvation on Sand Mountain really hit me. In many ways, Dennis Covington and I are similar. Our ancestors come from the same place, and in some ways, Covington's search for home paralleled my own. He really gives these people that the outside world looks on as strange and idiotic some humanity. This complete examination of a different, and authentic, world really intrigued me and allowed me to see a vision of life from the snake-handlers' lives.<br />That said, it is Covington's personal spiritual search that makes this book compelling. Covington feels lost, and in an attempt to put his life on track, he's looking for a place to start. The simplicity and passion of the Snake Handlers attracts him, and he sets out to see what this is. He really encounters the Snake Handling way of life, and in the process, he begins to learn a little bit about himself.<br />Covington writes, &quot;Knowing where you come from is one thing, but it's suicide to stay there.&quot; That's probably the salient message of the book. Even if we find where we come from, we have to move on to create our own home, our own place in the world. Covington's journey goes toward and away from the snake handlers on sand mountain, and by encountering them, God helps him to find his own way.	2003-11-03
US	47226334	R3LFYF2LFHYDQT	0060609362	255166850	Telling Secrets	Books	5	55	56	N	Y	An Act of Love	&quot;I not only have my secrets, I am my secrets. And you are your secrets. Our secrets are human secrets, and our trusting each other enough to share them with each other has much to do with the secret of what it is to be human.&quot;<br />In Telling Secrets, Buechner does just that. He tells the details of his most intimate life. He tells of his struggles and his tortuous search for answers to life. And Buechner finds some answers. He finds that so much of the secret of live is to love and to love means being able to lay bare that core of our being, that soul with the &quot;print of God's thumb still intact.&quot; And this book is just that. In an tremendous act of love, Buechner is baring his most essential soul and allowing the reader to connect and learn.<br />It's difficult for me to express how much I love this book. It is short, but each page holds enough wisdom to fill volumes. Telling Secrets is a book that has earned a prestigious spot on my bedstand where I can reach it easily the times I need it most.	2003-09-20
US	47226334	R1LHMI8E79ZOJR	0140378278	463708035	Time Cat: The Remarkable Journeys of Jason and Gareth	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Purrfect!!!	Wow, that was pathetically corny, but I couldn't resist.<br />Anyway, Alexander's book is wonderful. He's certainly my favorite, but Time Cat still managed to surprise me. It was an entertaining story (which ALL of his are), and it also reached some of the depth of his best tales (Westmark, Prydain, The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian).<br />The concept is great. Everyone knows that cats have nine live, but we don't realize that they live them simultaneously in various periods and places and can move from life to life at will. The cat in this, Gareth, ends up taking a boy, Jason, with him to visit each life. They visit such places as Egypt: 2700 B.C., Ireland: 411 A.D., Peru: 1555, Italy: 1468, and others. They get through an exciting adventure in each place and time.<br />Each story is highly entertaining. You get to witness the excitement while learning about various cultural facts and historic figures (such as Saint Patrick and Leonardo da Vinci). The real strength in the novel is the way in which the stories work together to create a strong message about being in awe of life and living it with courage and compassion. Time Cat is a superb novel and one of Alexander's best.	2003-08-13
US	47226334	R17FBK10SHVWLQ	0763607762	363595414	Because of Winn-Dixie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lyrical and Poignant	Because of Winn-Dixie is just a beautiful little novel. It is Opal's innocent look at real life. It's much like Scout's innocent look at a fallen world in To Kill a Mockingbird, and it hits notes just as lyrical and poignant.<br />The cast of characters has all been touched by life in some way. Opal and her father have been hurt by divorce. Others have been hurt by death, prejudice, loneliness...Opal says, \\"Sometimes I feel at if the whole world is lonely.\\" But Opal and her dog Winn-Dixie try to bring these real people together to begin to heal.<br />The result of the book is a truly fascinating story held together by a wonderful character. The book is truly touching, humorous, and uplifting. Because of Winn-Dixie is a book for anyone touched by life.	2003-08-11
US	47226334	R1890OG7P8KCX0	0141303131	533694190	The Illyrian Adventure	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Female Indiana Jones	I've been a Lloyd Alexander fan for a long time. His Westmark Trilogy and Prydain Chronicles are certainly some of my favorities for their high adventure, dry wit, and extraordinary depth. I've even exchanged letters with Alexander. Needless to say, I've been excited to begin the Vesper Holly books for a long times, and while this one is not quite up to the level of Westmark and Prydain, I am not disappointed.<br />Vesper Holly is quite a girl. She has a knack for getting into finding trouble and adventure. In this novel, she drags her Uncle Brinnie to Illyria and into a civil war with its roots in ancient mythology. Together, Vesper and Brinnie have to try to unite the country by bringing together the king and the leader of the rebel forces. Of course, the plot contains a lot of murder attempts and quick escapes and mysterious plot twists. It's certainly a fun, fast ride.<br />There is a lot that's great about this book. I'm always a stickler for good high adventure, and the humor, action, and characters of The Illyrian Adventure provide that. The only problem with the book is that it stops there. Where Prydain and Westmark have underlying messages about such things as political philosophy, the nature of heroism, and the ability of love to cut through the chaos of the world, this book did not have that depth. Certainly, read this book, but read Westmark and Prydain first.	2003-08-08
US	47226334	R2M5G7Y1S5B5L1	0374505845	987266683	Wise Blood: A Novel	Books	5	127	135	N	N	The Hound of Heaven	&quot;Do you think it is possible to come to Christ through ordinary dislike before discovering the love of Christ? Can dislike be a sign?&quot; - Walker Percy in The Last Gentleman<br />I've never really grasped what Walker Percy meant by that one until I read Wise Blood, but that's what happens. The opposite of love isn't hate. Rather, it's indifference, and hate is some form of love. In Wise Blood, Hazel does hate Christ, but that hate is emblematic of the belief (and unwanted love) he actually holds for Him. Wise Blood is Hazel's dark journey in a fallen world toward happening onto a bit of grace, painful but merciful at the same time.<br />Wise Blood isn't a book to read if you want to end up with a warm and fuzzy feeling inside. Its setting is a grim, fallen world, and the characters aren't exactly likeable. Nevertheless, the truth O'Connor has to present through her dark humor is powerful and insightful. This is a wonderful book for intellectual Christians and for anyone else searching for truth in this mess of a world.	2003-07-31
US	47226334	R1X5S6E8HDE3QL	0374465363	16262154	The Search for Delicious	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A New Favorite	I don't know why I picked this up to read it. I just ran across an old copy of a book by an author I haven't read much of and started it. I was absolutely startled to find such a warm book of authentic, feeling relationships, sincere humor, and true depth.<br />The story is of Gaylen. He lives at court where his father-figure, the Prime Minister, is writing a dictionary. The king and the rest of court have a great dispute on the meaning of the word \\"delicious.\\" Gaylen is sent to poll the country to find out what is truly delicious. On his journey, he finds that the country is about to be throne into a war over the issue, and Gaylen has to try to contact some pretty magical people to try and save the country.<br />The book works on a lot of levels. On one hand, it is a humorous, adventurous, and truly touching little novel. You really love the main character and each of the episodes he undergoes makes you like him more. But the novel does have a little deeper side as the conflict over the word \\"delicious\\" comments a lot on the nature of relative truth in a fallen world, and Gaylen is on a search to try and bring order back to the world.<br />From whatever perspective one reads the novel, I think there is something wonderful to find. I am definitely going to purchase myself a copy and recommend it to everyone I know.	2003-07-13
US	47226334	R21MPNYZVSUVBH	0671722972	308306582	The Winter's Tale (The New Folger Library Shakespeare)	Books	5	46	52	N	N	A Redemptive Tragedy	The Winter's Tale is a lot of things: heart-breaking, exhilerating, funny, beautiful, romantic, profound, etc. Yeah, it's all here. This is one of the bard's best plays, and I can't believe they don't teach this in schools. Of course, the ones they teach are excellent, but I can see high school kids enjoying this one a lot more than some of those others (Othello, King Lear).<br />The story is, of course, brilliant. King Leontes goes into a jealous rage at the beginning against his wife Hermione. Leontes is very mistaken in his actions, and the result is tragic. Shakespeare picks the story back up sixteen years later with the children, and the story works to a really, really surprising end of bittersweet redemption.<br />This is one of Shakespeare's bests. The first half is a penetrating and devestating, but the second half shows a capacity for salvation from the depths of despair. Also, this being Shakespeare, the blank verse is gorgeous and the characters are well drawn, and the ending is a surprise unparalleled in the rest of his plays. The Winter's Tale is a truly profound and entertaining read.	2003-05-27
US	47226334	R3DTLKQR1FTC2W	0786808284	92548451	Crispin: The Cross of Lead (2003 John Newbery Medal Winner)	Books	5	19	24	N	N	This One Blew Me Away! Avi's Best	I've been a fan of Avi's wonderful books for a long time. Some such as The True Confessions of Charlotte Doyle and The Fighting Ground were big favorites when I was younger, and I still love returning to them from time to time. I was really excited when I learned that Avi had finally won the Newberry medal with Crispin The Cross of Lead, and having read it, I think that this is his best. <br />The story follows Crispin, a young peasant in the Middle Ages. The death of his mother and some mysterious surrounding circumstances force Crispin to flee his home with some powerful people trying to kill him. He falls in with Bear, a traveling juggler who becomes a father figure, who helps Crispin in his flight to happiness.<br />Everything is perfect about this novel. Crispin and Bear are well-characterized, and their relationship is truly touching. The plot has a lot of action and is quick paced. Primarily, the book is great for the way it deals with pain. Crispin's faith and perseverance in the face of extreme pain is amazing and is a remarkable message for children (and adults) in these difficult times. I can't say enough for this book. It definitely deserves the Newberry. I hope Avi writes fifty more books this good.	2003-05-23
US	47226334	R1DMU59JDFAG6K	0679600140	179354174	The Quiet American (Modern Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Kind of Prophetic	Graham Greene is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors since I recently read The Power and the Glory, The End of the Affair, and now this masterpiece. The narrative is wonderfully entertaining, the characterization of Fowler is deep and insightful, and Greene's grasp of America's political outlook seems prophetic (particularly considering the recent Iraqi \\"war\\").<br />The story is of Fowler, a middle-aged English journalist, who is covering the civil war in Vietnam (pre-US war), and he is involved with a young Vietnamese beauty Phuong. Enter Pyle, a naive American who sets out to take Phuong and sets out to pursue naive American political interests.<br />The novel works on a lot of levels. For one, it is very entertaining; I can see how they wanted to make a movie out of it. It also develops an interesting moral commentary as Fowler is forced to handle a moral quandary. The reporter is forced to \\"take a side,\\" is forced to grasp some type of belief structure. The political commentary Greene gives to this post-colonial world is also highly intriguing. This should be required reading for politicians (particularly in these times). The Quiet American is one of Greene's best novels and will certainly go down as one of the masterpieces of twentieth-century fiction.	2003-05-22
US	47226334	R3QV3E99WYUZ72	0060915412	167897159	Teaching a Stone to Talk: Expeditions and Encounters	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	Seeing Life With Her Eyes Open	A couple of months ago, I happened upon the wholly enchanting For the Time Being by Annie Dillard. Following up on that, I just read this Teaching a Stone to Talk, and I will certainly be continuing to explore the work of this amazing author.<br />Teaching a Stone to Talk is a collection of essays that contains some true masterpieces. My personal favorite is the first, &quot;Living Like Weasels,&quot; in which Dillard encourages us, and points for us the way, to remember how to live. Others are almost equal. &quot;An Expedition to the Pole&quot; cleverly and poignantly compares the journeys of arctic and antarctic explorers with the goings on in a tiny church congregation searching for God. In &quot;God in the Doorway,&quot; Dillard expounds on an encounter with a woman and uses it to illuminate on the nature of God's love.<br />Teaching a Stone to Talk is a truly amazing work. Whether she is writing about nature, an eclipse, or about a conversation with a small boy, Dillard manages to mesmerize the reader with her words and humor, and she blows the reader away with her wisdom and insight.	2003-05-21
US	47226334	RN44ZN3NMGPVL	0060611626	373407127	Godric: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Moving, Funny, Poignant, Poetic	Everyone points out that this little novel is graceful and poetic, and they couldn't be more correct. Throughout the novel, I marveled at the simple beauty of the words and the way they are put together, and it wasn't until later that I realized why. This novel is so meticulously put together that each sentence is written in iambs. I think that fact kind of holds within how wonderful this novel it is. It is a carefully constructed and beautiful portrait of a life persevering, persisting toward sainthood.<br />Everything about this novel is perfect. Of course, each sentence is perfect, and at times, I would go back a read and reread certain chapters which strike me so profoundly. The relationships held herein, such as Godric's loving relationship with Burcwen, with Mouse, and with Reginald, are subtle complex and really touching. And of course, Godric's own characterization is the biggest strength of the novel, as he moves from the worst of sinners to a godly, compassionate, and humble man.<br />I can't say enough for this perfect novel. I am sure that I will return again and again to its pages for the humor and warmth and beauty held therein.	2003-05-17
US	47226334	R36TABZR4JBV9V	0394437039	115989267	The Moviegoer	Books	5	21	23	N	N	My Favorite Novel	Last June (under a year ago), I read this novel for the first time. I just finished reading it for the fifth time. I have never read a novel with which I related more. It is truly brilliant and truly beautiful. I've always been a big reader, and so, I have always had trouble choosing my favorite novel. That is, until I read The Moviegoer.<br />The novel is about the character of Binx Bolling, a businessman living in New Orleans. A week before his thirtieth birthday, Binx becomes aware of the Search, his existential quest for meaning and happiness amidst the chaos and peculiar unreality of the world. Binx is joined on his Search by Kate, with whom he shares a complex and somewhat sweet relationship.<br />Percy's invocation of postmodern humanity's despair is so striking and powerful. I know that it is a feeling which everyone has felt as some point, but The Moviegoer isn't just about the alienation and sadness of man; Percy offers hope as Binx achieves redemption. His leap to love, his embrace of the &quot;mundane&quot; world and of humanity (and God), is subtle and profound. It is impossible to express the greatness of this powerful, beautiful novel, and I don't know how to convey how much this novel means to me. I can only recommend Walker Percy's wonderful novel.	2003-05-11
US	47226334	R2GSCTB5YWY4BZ	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Ok Sure, It's Not Perfect, But.....	White Teeth, maybe despite a couple flaws and couple of slower sections, is an amazingly entertaining book. I can see you there was so much excitement about this novel before it even came out. Read the first five pages, and see if you're not laughing and actually caring about Archie. (I will tell you that if you don't find that section of the book interesting, just put it down. It's not a book for you.)<br />What's great about it: The prose and dialogue is so quick, witty, ironic, etc... You get carried along by the humor of the ride, even if some of event in the scenes aren't your favorites. The characters are at times hilarious, sometimes maddening and sometimes loveable, and their situations are heartbreaking and life affirming.<br />I know, that doesn't sound like it makes all that much sense. But I don't know that real life is all that much different. <br />White Teeth is not for everyone's tastes (as you can surely see from the mixed reviews here), but I do think there's a little something to take away for everyone. I have to think of the last scene in the novel, which is so brilliant and funny and uniting (and which I don't think a lot of readers get to). White Teeth can be a fascinating look that the postmodern world.	2003-05-03
US	47226334	R1RFL7UHLUPC3D	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gut-Wrenching and Heart-Wrenching	There once existed a world where people believed in progress. They believed in technology and generally, the ability of man to make the world a better place. Hope and faith were present in abundance. But then came World War II, the a-bomb and the Holocaust, and then came the changes which Wiesel's horrific narrative marks.<br />This is Wiesel's story of his youth spent in Hitler's concentration camps. He witnesses the destruction of his world, the deaths of his loved ones, and the deterioration of his faith in the face of evil.<br />The narrative is extremely powerful, intellegent, and profound. This is essential reading for everyone who needs to understand the Holocaust and the Post-Modern world that followed, a world which can't live with faith and that can't live without it. Night is one of the greatest and move essential works of the twentieth century.	2003-04-27
US	47226334	R1T3KUCSH6DURB	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Deceptively Simple	Things Fall Apart reads so simply. The sentences are so concise and direct, attacking the reader. This novel doesn't seduce you the reader; instead, it forces you to put aside all of your prejudices inherited from your own culture, and the novel compels you to enter Okonkwo's own violent, beautiful culture. Then, once you are in, Achebe pummels you, making you feel a sense of destruction similar to that of a culture being destroyed by colonialism.<br />The novel is simple, and at the same time, it's not. Things Fall Apart is much more than just an indictment of Western Culture. It explores complex questions about the clash of cultures. It explores the meaning of truth, and everything relates to Western culture itself as it is sucked into W.B. Yeats's gyre along with the Igbo. Things Fall Apart is one of the powerful stories of the Twentieth Century, and it is a novel which will stand far past the Postmodern era.	2003-04-10
US	47226334	R1GEWDNN2V326Q	0553210165	641528927	Hard Times (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	80	88	N	N	More Than Facts	I initially lamented the fact that Hard Times was assigned to me in my British lit. class. I had read some of Dickens's melodramas like A Tale of Two Cities and Oliver Twist and enjoyed them, but everything I heard about Hard Times said this was nothing like those. This was supposedly just strictly social commentary. My interpretation of that: BORING. <br />But then I read it.<br />Hard Times isn't like Dickens's other novels, but I don't think that it has any less heart than those masterpieces. In fact, Dickens endured himself much further to me with this novel as he has his characters perform Thomas Carlyle's enduring philosophy. <br />The novel follows the Gradgrind family who is raised adhering to FACTS and living in a society which worships the manufacturing machine. As the novel progresses, connections are made and broken, and the characters come to the realization that there is much more to reality than the material facts.<br />Hard Times is told so compassionately. The reader cares for these people and their tragic lives. The story is also told with biting humor that still cuts at today's society (this novel feels really modern), and the underlying philosophy is one which is so needed in our post-modern world. I would certainly recommend this novel to fans of Dickens and to fans of the truly literary novel.	2003-03-31
US	47226334	RZYNO1QU9ACSU	0800871863	431949761	Silence	Books	5	25	28	N	N	Moving Towards A True Doctrine of Compassion	Silence is one of the most moving, most gut-wrenching, and most true novels I have ever read. It explores the questions which all Christians and non-Christians have to ask themselves at some time in their life to find out where they are. It does so in a way that is remarkabley compelling.<br />Silence is the story of Father Rodrigues, a Portuguese priest who travels to Japan in the Sixteenth Century during their Christian persecution. Once there, he tries to carry out his mission but sinks in the &quot;swamp of Japan.&quot; He faces unimaginable tortures and lives through the most profound anguish of humanity. All the while, he struggles with questions about God. Why is God silent amidst human suffering? He faces questions about what it means to truly be a Christian.<br />Silence is an unflinching book, taking on what is possibly the central dilemma of Christianity. I read this in a college class in which people took varied things away from the book. For myself, Silence was one of the most triumphant books of the Christian faith I have ever read. It marks a profound move from a Christian doctrine of doctrine towards a Christian doctrine of compassion. I don't believe that God is silent in this novel. This novel asks God some tough questions, and He quietly answers in a voice that moves mountains.	2003-02-22
US	47226334	R3TDW3CINS1VMA	0156421356	339992969	Homo Faber: A Report	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Hope for Modern Man	Homo Faber was the first book I've read by Max Frisch. I really thought that it was a telling and hopeful look at the plight of modern man. <br />It's the story of Walter Faber, a technologist, living in total despair. Fate has some movement to make in his life, though. Events contrive to send Walter on a journey through life that parallels a Greek tragedy.<br />The novel is fascinating. It is intriguing, reading somewhat like a mystery novel. That \\"detective story\\" feeling is telling as Walter eventually does find something: redemption. This is a truly insightful novel about the despair of modern man and his chance for some taste of happiness. <br />If you like this book, you should definitely read Walker Percy (who is an even better writer with much the same answer as Frisch).	2003-02-11
US	47226334	RZHEDWROIJNZ8	0064471063	440200388	The Horse and His Boy	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of the Best in the Series	I'm a college student who is just getting to experience all of The Chronicles of Narnia. When I picked this one up, all of my friends who had read Narnia when they were younger actually became interested. This one had been everyone's favorite in the series. I actually got to see a BUSINESS MAJOR take the book and lovingly describe reading it in the fifth grade. I didn't even know he could read!!! Well anyway, The Horse and His Boy turned out to be just as good as they all said.<br />In The Horse and His Boy, Peter, Susan, Lucy, and Edmund are really in the background. This story follows Shasta who is basically a slave to a cruel fisherman. One day, his path crosses with a talking horse, Bree, who wants to escape to the north (Narnia). The two take off on the journey. They meet new friends, adventure, and learn much about themselves and the nature of the world. The Horse and His Boy is a vastly entertaining with almost a Persian feel, and it's also so meaningful. I know that I'll pick this one up again.	2003-02-06
US	47226334	R25QOYRCPWUCMP	0064471047	915528414	The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The True Nature of Love	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is, of course, loved by millions as a classic, and it truly deserves its distinction. Rarely will any reader of any genre find a story so moving and entertaining and so enlightening. I can't recommend anything more highly than this little volume.<br />The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is the story of Lucy, Edmund, Susan, and Peter who wander through an old wardrobe into the magical world of Narnia. What follows is their adventure as they team with a nation of talking animals and other magical creatures versus the evil powers in the kingdom. The novel climaxes with one extraordinary act of love which tears through the kingdom and changes everything and everyone after.<br />The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is such a successful novel. It does serve as a wonderfully powerful read. The book also enlightens the reader with its commentary Christian symbolism on the nature of love. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe is a classic, and I really think that it is just now coming into what may be its most popular period. The world is pleading for some type of meaning, and here, Lewis is willing to offer it.	2003-02-03
US	47226334	R1PIQBBQQGFP2O	0064471101	575376127	The Magician's Nephew	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Powerful Beginning to a Classic Series	I am currently taking a class on C.S. Lewis in college, and what a wonderful experience it was to get to read this for the class. The Magician's Nephew works on multiple levels to entertain and enlighten the reader.<br />The Magician's Nephew is about the birth of Narnia. In the story, Polly and Digory get sent into parallel worlds by their evil Uncle. This begins their adventures in which they meet and evil enchantress, view the creation of a new world, and witness the glory of Aslan.<br />This novel is the beginning tale of the Narnia series telling of its founding by Aslan. The story is a quick-moving adventure with a lot of excitement and humor that anyone can enjoy. Also underneath the story there is so much Christian insight as here, Lewis retells the fall of man. The Magician's Nephew is a rollicking beginning to the series and even manages to be intellectually pleasing.	2003-01-31
US	47226334	R23PKQPQ0I5UZI	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	4	5	6	N	N	What Grief is Like	Shadowlands has long been one of my favorite movies, so I've always wanted to read the book that inspired. A Grief Observed was certainly no disappointment. A Grief Observed is a powerful portrait of a man torn apart and even away from God by grief, but he learns to handle the grief to come even closer to God. The emotion displayed is powerful as is the intellect.<br />I'm am currently a college student who (thank God) has not yet had to suffer as much pain and loneliness as is dispayed here. I know that at this point in my life I cannot really relate to this book. But I am so thankful that A Grief Observed will be here to turn to when I do have to live through this type of situation. It is such an inspiration to have this example of a faithful man fighting through despair. I know that this is a book that I will keep with me throughout my life.	2003-01-10
US	47226334	RE5CJ96CEOVDO	0679602720	363505822	The Last Gentleman (Modern Library)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Meaning of Salvation	I recently read The Moviegoer by Percy, and I would definately rate it as my favorite novel. I was really excited to pick of The Last Gentleman as my second Percy novel, and though I would not rate it as highly as The Moviegoer, it was far from a disappointment. It is certainly a book that I will cherish among my very favorites.<br />The primary character of the novel is Bill Barrett (who is more often called the engineer). The engineer suffers from amnesia and periods of deja vu, and he reads about a near-apocolyptic catostrophe and wonders if it has already happened. He is the lost (dead) American. One day, looking through his telescope, he sees a girl, and the result is that he becomes involved with her family the Vaughts. The relationship with them ends up sending him on a journey through the South and on to New Mexico, a journey in which he gains a type of salvation.<br />One of Percy's primary beliefs about novel writing was that it should be entertaining, and The Last Gentleman succeeds. It is at times hilarious and is often moving. It is true that there are periods where it drags a little, but the truths Percy presents more than make up for those sections. The Last Gentleman is a supremely beautiful, entertaining, and thoughtful novel.	2003-01-08
US	47226334	R1LHTKQ56ON1CZ	019254702X	98391193	2: The Oxford Illustrated Jane Austen: Volume II: Pride and Prejudice	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of the Most Beautiful, Entertaining Reads I've Had	I always have trouble reviewing my very favorite books on Amazon. It always seems as if nothing I can write does the book justice. Pride and Prejudice is one of those novels. I don't remember a time when I've enjoyed a read so much (and I read a lot).<br />It's a well known story. Of course, it's that Jane Austen world (which Austen pokes endlessly at) with the social artifaces, the endless gossiping, and clever schemes on how to get married, particularly to someone rich. Here, it is the Bennet sisters trying to get themselves hitched, and the central character is the spirited Elizabeth who clashes with (sometimes) arrogant, stuffy Darcy.<br />Pride and Prejudice is so entertaining on different levels. It is so funny! The characters (especially Mr. and Mrs. Bennet) are so eccentrically funny, and some of the situations Elizabeth gets into are hilarious. Austen's little asides about the local society are subtly cutting, too. Then, there are all of the brilliant characterizations and their changing relationships. Also, I'm always drawn to Austen's little theme of love's ability to break through the mess of a shallow society. I truly love everything about this little novel. It'll certainly alway keep a special place on my bookshelf (or by my bed).	2003-01-08
US	47226334	R3J5HJ5G5AAONJ	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of My Favorite Children's Books--The Best of the Series	In The Wide Window, the Baudelaire children once again are forced to go through horrid, desperate situations when they are sent to a new guardian, Aunt Josephine, who is too afraid of life to live it. Into the picture, of course, comes Count Olaf, and Aunt Josephine being too weak to save the Baudelaires, the three children have to depend on one another to try to get past his new scheme to end their lives and get their fortune.    There are just so many wonderful things about The Wide Window and this whole series. The book is so simple, but it also has so much to say about the nature of the world. Life isn't easy, and this series is brave enough to say that. But the novels also fight back against that pain-with Snicket's wry humor and with the familial love between the Baudelaire children. The Wide Window says so much that needs to be said, and I know that anytime I need to I can pick it up and know that I will be alright. There is always something to lean on.	2003-01-05
US	47226334	R3VGHHZ946UTI7	0689844077	571846578	A Little Princess (Aladdin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Elegant Work of Art	A Little Princess is a really beautiful little novel. It is a quick read, and from the first words, I was wholly enchanted by the story and character of little Sara Crewe.<br />Sara Crewe is a girl who has come to England to go to Miss Minchin's boarding school. Unfortunately, events conspire against Sara, and she has to try to persevere against the cruely of Miss Minchin.<br />What makes A Little Princess is the lovely characterization of Sara. Sara's moral character is so strong. Sara goes through extreme hardship and perseveres through the strength of her character. She is wholly selfless, especially toward those less fortunate and toward her enemies. She is basically the picture of what every child (or person) ought to be. The novel also is a wonderful commentary on need children have for story. The story of little Sara Crewe is wholly delightful and will continue to be a much read classic for years to come.	2003-01-03
US	47226334	R2XZEDBZ1E9HUW	0803727348	841992579	Invitations to the World: Teaching and Writing for the Young	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Every Teacher and Writer Should Read This	I am an undergraduate English major with a passion for children's literature and young adult literature (which drives a few of my current professors crazy). What an amazing experience it was to pick up this non-fiction work by Richard Peck that details Peck's own passion for America's youth and his way of reaching out to them through his outstanding (I was already a fan of Peck's work) novels. The work is, as the inside of the dust jacket claims, part \\"memoir, social commentary, and writing manual.\\" Peck tells how he came to writing young adult literature, he evokes the great need for the books, and he details what and why he has written. The works serves not just as an overview of Peck's work but also of the young adult genre since its inception. There is so much to gain from this work, and you certainly come away from it feeling just what an extraordinary man and writer Richard Peck is, and you feel the extant of the extraordinary accomplishments young adult literature has made and the great need for it to be read by today's youth. Invitation to the World is a work that anyone who will be teaching should read (including non-English teachers), and anyone who may be planning to write children's or young adult literture cannot miss this.	2002-12-31
US	47226334	R2PZDN258WW6QC	0151004137	734553685	The Seven Storey Mountain: Fiftieth-Anniversary Edition	Books	5	5	6	N	N	&quot;I Once Was Lost, But Now Am Found.&quot;	The Seven Storey Mountain is a beautifully written book. Thomas Merton was a brilliant intellectual who had looked at many different types of belief. Merton realizes that he isn't happy, though, and he continues to search until he is converted to Christianity. The Seven Storey Mountain is the story of Merton's journey from being that confused and despairing intellectual to being a secure and happy Trappist monk.<br />The Seven Storey Mountain offers the reader so much. It is an extraordinary way to build faith. The picture of courage that Merton presents as someone actually willing to give up himself for his belief in God is so inspiring. Some of the passages about God are so beautiful. The only possible warning I have for this book is that its possible that some Protestant readers may be slightly offended by some rather general criticisms pointed at non-Catholic Christians. Still, these in no way detracted from the book for me, and I think that any reader of this book will benefit despite some any doctrinal differences. The Seven Storey Mountain is moving and joyful story of a man's journey to God, and it is a journey which should be celebrated and learned from.	2002-12-31
US	47226334	R18M3FQZJCIX3C	0140281649	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	It's All About the Love	Love in the Time of Cholera was my first time to experience the writing of Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and I am sure I will be reading him more. I was completely captivated by the lavish themes, the lush prose, and the enchanting story.<br />The novel is the entire history of Florentino Ariza and Fermina Daza. Early in life, the two fall in love, but for Fermina, it doesn't last, and she marries. Florentino, however, continues to love Fermina his entire life until fifty-one years later he comes back pursuing Fermina....<br />It is a mesmerizing story which Garcia Marquez uses to explore love from every possible angle. He contrasts it with cholera to reveal so many of its aspects such as its all-consuming nature and its ability to authenticate life, and he explores the varrying and changing relationships between all of the principal characters. There is so much the novel covers that can't be here. I would just say read the novel. It is fairly long, but it reads quickly, and there is so much to gain from it.	2002-12-30
US	47226334	RMLE8QE8WPXFR	0684830426	193175702	The Great Gatsby (Scribner Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Exquisite Little Classic	Yes, The Great Gatsby is a true classic. It is such a beautiful little novel, and its themes transcend the century.<br />Most people know the story. Nick, who narrates, has just moved to New York, and his life becomes entangled with that of his mysterious neighbor, the rich, self-made Jay Gatsby. Jay Gatsby is in love with Daisy Buchanan, Nick's cousin, who is married to Tom Buchanan. The plot follows the telling events that take place between this small group of the Jazz Age elite.<br />The entire novel is so exquisitely constructed. The prose is beautiful, the plot is an emotionally moving degenerative tragedy, and the symbols are intricately woven in to deftly illustrate the theme. And that theme is so relevant as Fitzgerald laments over the fall of the American Dream. He reveals the wasteland that is, the America made hollow by the embrace of materialism and a set of false ideals to adhere to their materialistic longings. There is so much that Fitzgerald says, and reading the work, one feels that the Jazz Age has yet to end. We are still reeling in the languish Fitzgerald described.	2002-12-27
US	47226334	R2ULBPGGJJRXPN	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Leading Up to the Leap	C.S. Lewis's Mere Christianity is a wonderful book. Lewis was at one time an atheist who later came to Christianity, and Mere Christianity is a compilation of Lewis's thought that lead to the conversion. The book is not a difficult read; Lewis has taken complex ideas and broken them down to their most simple forms. His thought is always logical, and almost as far as one can go, he details the logical reasons for God. Of course, as Kierkegaard and Lewis both know, faith in God can't be found by simple reasoning; there is that &quot;leap&quot; involved. For this reason, Lewis goes on to explain many of his basic beliefs about Christianity.<br />Really, Mere Christianity is a great book to detail the most basic foundations of Christianity. There are a few areas where my own interpretations and opinions differ slightly from Lewis, but that is definitely to be expected. Lewis was open-minded and acknowledged that differences in doctrinal thought are essential from Christian to Christian. I think that this is part of the real strength of the book; C.S. Lewis has explained the most basic principals of Christianity in general, and the individual Christian can build on them. Mere Christianity can be an essential tool to help the Christian better articulate his/her beliefs, and the book can also serve as a very basic introduction to a person considering or wanting to learn about Christianity.	2002-12-21
US	47226334	R2UR1TSQPZ1XZQ	0679748261	74645873	Goodbye, Columbus : And Five Short Stories (Vintage International)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	I've Lived This Story	Goodbye, Columbus is the story of Neil Klugman from poor Newark and Brenda Patimkin from an upper-crust family in Short Hills and their relationship over a summer. Neil relates the story of his love for the beautiful Brenda, a love in which the two share little in common. He presents his hopes and dreams and his ultimate realizations about the state of the world and about himself. The novella is ultimately a beautiful, complex coming-of-age story which it seems everyone goes through.<br />Goodbye, Columbus is one of the best books I have read. It was so realistic and easy to relate to. I think that I have had a relationship similar to every one related in the novel. There are so many great insights to be found here. The novella isn't a difficult read, but one should definitely be aware of a lot of the symbols (such as the title, the fruit, the lions, and the uncle at the wedding) to glean the most from it. I will also say a word about the short stories. All of them, particularly &quot;The Conversion of the Jews,&quot; were wonderful. They alone would make the book worth five stars; they just seem to get forgotten because of the masterpiece the opening novella is.	2002-12-20
US	47226334	R1WLQL6WD5D1JE	0486282406	584095688	My Ántonia (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Rich Mine of Life	Willa Cather has much in common with Sarah Orne Jewett. Both saw the United States growing increasingly shallow and materialistic. In response, they wrote books capturing life in what may be viewed as its most simple and complete form. My Antonia is one of these novels, and the result is that it paints a vivid, beautiful picture of the potential of life.<br />The novel is narrated by Jim Burden. It begins with Jim as a young boy traveling to the open west to be raised by his grandparents on their Nebraskan farm. Antonia is a girl slightly older than Jim from a Bohemian family which is trying to survive the hard farming life. The rest of the novel follows the two as they live their complete lives-growing, maturing, suffering, and going through relationships-basically just trying as best they can to survive.<br />There are so many great things to say about this novel. The vision of humans surviving the harsh realities of farming in the Nebraska wilderness is intense and stark, but there is such beauty to be found as they undergo such hardships and keep forging ahead. This is what I see as the real greatness of the novel-it presents the great courage of man to just survive and the intense beauty which is found in survival. The whole image seems so indicative of the human condition, and the effect is truly life affirming.	2002-12-18
US	47226334	R32L1GM8AAV3TK	0140386335	997417953	The Neverending Story	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Splendid Allegorical Fantasy	The Neverending Story is truly a story for all ages. Anyone who wants a fantasy as exciting and moving as the Harry Potter books can look here. Also here, is a story with multiple layers of meaning giving the reader much that is profound to think about.<br />I won't go far into the story because it seems too complex for this type of review. Many of the traditional elements of fantasy are here, but they are thrown together in a wholly original way. There are a lot of characters, some of whom have to serve a messianic figures for the dieing world of Fantastica. There is a lot of exciting action, and there a a number of very moving relationships.<br />There are several ways to look at this novel beyond just the story; it definitely deserves a second reading. For one thing, deals with Bastian's existential quest for self-discovery, and it contrasts Atreyu's and Bastian's methods. There is also a lot of Christian symbolism as a Messianic figure is needed to save Fantastica from the Nothing. It also seemed to me that Baltasar's character could sometimes be viewed as a symbol for the Christian Church since Christ's days and perhaps as a commentary for how to once again purify it.<br />The Neverending Story is truly a masterpiece of Literature for both children and adults. Anyone can read this brilliant story and be entertained and come away with it with some profound insights. The Neverending Story will, I'm sure, always live up to its title; I cannot imagine any generation coming along who will not be totally enraptured by it.	2002-12-17
US	47226334	R1S9QEATKNCMX5	0684825546	688704432	Zorba the Greek	Books	4	24	34	N	N	Sacred Awe	There really isn't much of a consensus worldwide about the artistry of Nikos Kazantzakis. It seems that half of the scholarly world finds him to be a genius and the other half a failed genius not worthy of really being remembered. Zorba the Greek was my first time to read anything by him, and for me, he didn't really quite fall into either category. I did find the work brilliant with some excellent writing and a lot to think about, but I have a few drawbacks to buying whole-heartedly into Kazantzakis's philosophy.<br />Zorba the Greek is told by a narrator (Kazantzakis) who does not find satisfying answers to the questions of life in Western thought. He sets out to actually live life while running a mine in Crete. He hires Zorba, and the exuberant Zorba becomes the focus of the story as he teaches the narrator what he knows about life.<br />Zorba the Greek is certainly entertaining, and there are so many wonderful lines and insights. The book teaches to live life as if it were the first day of your life and as if it were the last day of your life. It says that the greatest goal in life would be to attain a Sacred Awe of all life. Of course, the way promoted by Zorba is a type of God-less hedonism which strikes me as pathetically shallow. But considering the whole novel, I would recommend it; I do not have to agree with everything a book says to learn from it. Zorba the Greek is a good work with some simply beautiful and insightful episodes.	2002-12-16
US	47226334	R2H9UDUAT8QANM	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Sad and Hilarious	Cat's Cradle is a wonderful little novel. The narrative is quick-paced, never stopping to allow you to catch your breath from alternately laughing and crying at the folly of humanity. <br />Of course, it's as all of the reviewer's here note; the novel is short, though takes a wide scope. It contemplates such difficult subjects as the nature of science and science's refusal to consider religion or the moral implications of its work. The novel is also extremely interesting for its commentary on religion, particularly considering that Vonnegut was an atheist. Each minute chapter is thought-provoking in its way, and underneath its primary themes, there is an exorbitant range of objects to satirize. And yes, the much of the stupidity is captured in the pages of this little read.<br />Cat's Cradle is one of the greatest novels of this century. Everything which Vonnegut comments on is just too much to go into here; this review would end up being longer than Cat's Cradle itself. It certainly makes a great read, and the things Vonnegut writes will keep you thinking whether you agree with him or not (I particularly recommend this for college science majors).	2002-11-24
US	47226334	R1SPA1NCVWN978	0684831171	963630731	The Screwtape Letters: Includes Screwtape Proposes a Toast	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Was C.S. Lewis a Prophet?	The Screwtape Letters is considered one of the classics of Christian literature, and it certainly deserves any praise that it has received. The Screwtape Letters, including \\"Screwtape Proposes a Toast,\\" is one of the most amazing books that I have ever read. I think that it is still totally applicable to the world today, and I feel that no person who reads it will leave it quite the same person.<br />Most people know the concept of the book. Screwtape is a retired and wise \\"devil,\\" or tempter. He is writing a letters to his less-experienced nephew who is trying to tempt a human soul away from God, the Enemy. The book is the collection of those letters.<br />Each letter itself is a small masterpiece. Lewis uses this reverse theology to enlighten so many aspects of man's spiritual life. Lewis knows the daily temptations and urges that man must face before opening himself up to God. Lewis examines each of them with a large dose of irony and wit, imparting immeasurable insight on the reader. It is evident in the letters that Lewis discerned the trends that would shape the rest of the century, and the book can be so useful for combatting them and gaining individual salvation. The Screwtape Letters should constantly be read and studied. Its wonderful influence is already enormous and should be encouraged to grow.	2002-10-09
US	47226334	R16YS5JBQJT9JA	0553574566	872257758	A Monstrous Regiment of Women	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Not Beekeeper, But Entertaining &amp; a Little Thought Provoking	I have never read anything like the Mary Russell novels. Each is a really fascinating combination; they are primarily elaborate character sketches of Mary Russell, with her character being very influenced by Sherlock Holmes, and with a mystery popping up sometime late in the novel. It's a really odd mixture and one which doesn't always gel, but the amalgam is at least always fascinating.<br />The primary focus of A Monstrous Regiment of Women is Mary Russell's development. In this novel, she is turning into a woman from a very mature youth. Here, Mary has come into her inheritance which offers her a different life and freedom. Her passion for theology has also begun to bear fruit, marking her intellectual development separate from from Holmes. The novel focuses on the developing relationship between Holmes and Russell as she begins to not look at him as a father figure. <br />The character development all happens within a leisurely paced plot which really accellerated near the end. Early in the novel, Russell encounters her old friend Veronica Beaconsfield who is working in London. Veronica introduces Russell to the fascinating, charismatic Margery Childe and her feminist organization the Temple of God. Russell is intrigued by Childe and the Temple, and is dragged into the affairs of the organization. Eventually, that organization becomes involved with a series of heinous crimes. Of course, Holmes and Russell have to try to correct things, and the result is an intense, fairly bizarre climax which also produces the result of Russells character developments throughout the novel.<br />A Monstrous Regiment of Women is a fascinating and entertaining novel. As other reviewers have pointed out, this is a transitory novel in the series which develops Russell's character and Holmes and Russells' relationship. The result is that it is much less plot driven than The Beekeeper's Apprentice, and the novel is less satisfying than its predecessor. Nevertheless, A Monstrous Regiment is certainly worth reading. The last hundred pages of the novel are sooo intense that they make the novel well worth reading. I can't wait to get on with the series. The potential is certainly there for something great.	2002-08-16
US	47226334	R5M640CUYMMJH	0553577808	155516838	A Letter of Mary (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Flashes of Brilliance	With A Letter of Mary, Laurie King continues the ever-intriguing Mary Russell series. Again, she didn't quite live up to the first book, The Beekeeper's Apprentice, but there were those moments where everything was just right, and those moments to make this a wonderfully entertaining read.<br />The plot of this novel begins with Russell and Holmes' married life. Their tranquil life in Sussex is interrupted by a visit from a friend they knew from their days in the Holy Land, Dorothy Ruskin. After the visit, Ms Ruskin is murdered, and of course, Holmes and Russell set out to find the facts behind the crime. There are a lot of plot twists and red herrings thrown in to complicate the process.<br />The previous two novels in the series have contained and interesting mixture of elaborate character sketches, suspenceful plots, and the delightful relationship between Sherlock Holmes and Mary Russell. In The Beekeeper's Apprentice, King found just the right balance between the three aspects. In A Monstrous Regiment of Women, she leaned too heavily on Mary Russell's development, almost ignoring the plot and Holmes. In A Letter of Mary, King develops the plot more thoroughly, but again, does not have enough of that repartee between Holmes and Russell. Despite that problem, the novel, as did A Monstrous Regiment of Women, does have those moments of brilliance when the intriguing and insightful characters of Russell and Holmes are together and the plot is moving along. Chapters 11 and 19 both have some of these wonderful, somewhat subtle moments. These beautiful scenes alone would make the novel worth reading. Overall, the novel is an extremely entertaining (if slightly flawed) read, and I will be rushing out to read the next in the series.	2002-08-16
US	47226334	R31D3YTF0OVOAL	0394756959	675515635	A Bell for Adano	Books	5	85	89	N	N	Great Story, Thought Provoking	Back in high school, I made a vow to myself that I would eventually read all of the Pulitzer Prize winning novels. A Bell for Adano was one of the first that I read. Now, a few years later, I have read around 30 of those novels, and while many have been wonderful, few have matched the experience of reading A Bell for Adano, and I continue to return to it. <br />The splendid novel is set during World War II, though it isn't really a war novel. The novel is about how very different people can, and should treat one another, especially when in a difficult situation. A Bell for Adano primarily concerns Major Joppolo. He is an American officer placed in charge of the city of Adano after the invasion. Joppolo is a wonderful, though flawed man. He's always practical but remains sentimental. He sets out to make the lives of the people of Adano the best he possibly can. He does so by not treating them as the enemy but as People. The &quot;bell&quot; of Adano refers his attempt to restore an historic bell to the city that it had lost during the war.<br />I can never do justice to my favorite novels when I review them, and this is one of them. I can't say enough good about it. The characterizations are strong and the interactions between the characters are touching and thought-provoking. Joppolo's relationship to the city's people is truly remarkable. It makes one think about America's relationship with foreign countries. The story is heart-tugging and humorous. There are few novels written this century that can touch a reader as much as this one does, and this one can make you think a little, too. A Bell for Adano certainly deserved its prize, and it definitely deserves to not be forgotten.	2002-08-12
US	47226334	R3GNTQ2TAFG5FX	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exciting Continuation	For years, I had heard enough people say that The Lord of the Rings was too long and dated to be worth reading that I avoided them. Recently, I picked up the first one, The Fellowship of the Rings, and I found that those people were flat wrong. The books have aged well. The characters are extremely interesting and loveable and the plot is well paced and exciting.<br />The Two Towers picks up right where Fellowship left off. The narrative is split between the two divisions of the fellowship. The first two books follow Merry, Pippin, Gimli, Legolas, Aragorn, and others as they join forces with the Ents (the coolest characters in the series so far) to fight against the rising power of Saruman. The last two books in The Two Towers follow Frodo and Sams' continuing quest into Mordor to try and destroy the ring. They face some interesting obstacles, and there are quite a few plot twists in the narrative.<br />The Two Towers is a truly entertaining read. The narrative in this is pretty fast-paces (except for one section at the beginning). There are some new characters and creatures which are really interesting. The conflicts are intense, and there are a lot of plot twists to keep you entertained. The book is especially exciting near the end. It really leaves you needing to read the last chronicle. I can't wait to experience the rest of The Lord of the Rings. I only wish I hadn't waited so long to get to it.	2002-08-12
US	47226334	R3H8ZW7E3XB338	185326105X	756102367	King Solomon's Mines (Wordsworth Children's Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Adventure Tale, Surpisingly Not Dated	I really enjoyed reading King Solomon's Mines. I really love those swashbuckling adventure stories like The Prisoner of Zenda, Scaramouche, and The Scarlet Pimpernel, but it's really difficult to find books like those which have managed to age really well. Fortunately, I have now happened onto another which I can return to.<br />King Solomon's Mines is the story of Sir Henry Curtis, Captain John Good and the narrator, Allan Quatermain. Curtis's younger brother has recently disappeared in Southern Africa in search of King Solomon's legendary mines. He is very worried, and he engages Good and Quatermain, a hunter, to help him find his brother. The three hire an African, Umbopa, to travel with them and they set out. What follows is there always exciting adventure in which they confront an tyrant king and an evil, sort-of-immortal woman (that will make sense after reading). The novel has just about everything - adventure, women, evil villains, humor, mixed identities, treasure, and an exotic local. It's entertaining stuff.<br />There's not much to complain about in King Solomon's Mines. The pace is quick. There is a lot of action and humor. I was very pleasantly surprised to find that it wasn't dated. The language isn't archaic and the jokes are still funny. The novel, first published in 1885, won't even offend by being overtly politically incorrect like many novels of that time. Really, this is a totally worthy read for anyone who likes a good adventure.	2002-08-08
US	47226334	R3MDM9J4JBY4KU	0385494246	654180128	Amsterdam: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Starkly Brilliant Satire	Ian McEwan is an author I've been wanting to read for a long time. When a copy of the this little novel fell into my hands, I decided to try it. I will definitely be returning to Ian McEwan in the future.<br />Amsterdam is a brilliant, compact satire which stabs many elements of our society. The plot centers around the death of Molly Lane. Her funeral brings together three former lovers: the musician Clive Linley, the newspaper editor Vernon Halliday, and the politician Julian Garmony. In the events following the funeral, McEwan place each in a moral dilemma in which they each come out as being morally decrepit.<br />Amsterdam, which reminded me a lot of White Noise, raises a lot of thought provoking questions about the morality of our political arena, the business/journalistic world, and the art world. Each is portrayed as being too self-centered to see outside of themselves. Each loves power, money, and beauty more than humanity. Amsterdam is a darkly humorous and cutting work which will certainly make the reader think.	2002-08-07
US	47226334	R4VMWI21DDI81	0517187760	520261516	Crossing to Safety (Great Reads)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Loyalty and Friendship	Before reading this novel, I would have named Wallace Stegner as my favorite novelist, and after, that opinion seems to be more firm. Crossing to Safety is a masterpiece which I'm sure will be read for generations and which I think I'll appreciate more as I grow older.<br />The premise is simple (which I think is always a strength in a novel). Two young, intelligent couples meet during the Great Depression. One man is a great novelist, and he looks back over the years and analyzes the relationships. He looks at each couple and the couples together, and shows their survival together through good times and harsh.<br />Crossing to Safety is a wonderful novel, dealing with relationships everyone will have sometime in their life. The characterizations are as apt as only Stegner can write them. The insights are profound, even if their not always easy. Stegner is mainly showing how humanity must hold on to one another to survive. We must make ties, and fight the inevitable urge to tear them apart. Stegner's novels are always perfect gems, and Crossing to Safety is one of his best.	2002-08-07
US	47226334	R2A6GIDVS3IJUS	0375701966	115989267	The Moviegoer	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perhaps the Novel That's Influenced Me Most	The Moviegoer by Walker Percy is possibly the finest novel that I have ever read. It is easily the most profound existential text that I have ever come, across and it is without doubt one of the masterworks of its century.<br />The novel doesn't focus on the plot much; it is mainly concerned with the development of the narrator, Binx Bolling. Binx is a businessman living in New Orleans. One week before his thirtieth birthday, he becomes aware of the Search. The Search is his existential quest to find meaning in life. Binx is also involved in a complex relationship with Kate, who is in a similar state as Binx. Together, they set out on a quest to find authenticity.<br />The Moviegoer, though not a difficult read, is definitely too complex to describe in a short review. It has such amazing strengths. The narrative is leisurely paced and always humorous. The relationships are complex and satisfying. Binx's Search is insightful, and its conclusion, Binx's leap to love, his embrace of the \\"mundane\\" world and of humanity (and God), is subtle and profound. I really cannot say enough good things about this novel, and I cannot express how much it means to me. I urge everyone to read this masterful, beautiful novel.	2002-08-05
US	47226334	RDFM0VBCCS62W	0140184953	459703484	The End of the Affair (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Engrossing Moral Tale	This summer, I have, very fortunately, had the opportunity to discover the novels of Graham Greene. There isn't enought that I can say about how wonderful those novels I've read are. Without doubt, they, and especially The End of the Affair, will stay with me the rest of my life.<br />This novel's plot is simple, but the thought behind it is complex. It deals with a bizarre love triangle between Bendrix, Sarah, and God. In the novel, Sarah and Bendrix have had a long-term adulterous affair, and they have truly been in love. Suddenly though, and without warning, Sarah leaves Bendrix. Bendrix's reactions is complex. He is convinced that it was another man, but later events show that Sarah left him because she has begun to believe in God, and she has had to choose between her convictions and Bendrix.<br />I don't think that I've given away too much of the plot (at least no more than anyone else has) because the study of the unique moral situation is so complex and detailed. The novel does have so much to say. It comments on the nature and price of faith. Greene is also concerned with the similarities between love and hate and the relationship between intense emotional pain, hate, and belief in God. The characterizations are all so complete as each character stuggles to believe in God and struggles with what emotions they should feel towards God. Greene speaks to so many aspects of human nature. It's a very rare thing to find a novel so powerful and thought provoking.	2002-08-04
US	47226334	R2L6QSXF8VG2O7	0452259614	369132556	Flashman: A Novel	Books	2	25	55	N	N	A Little Different Opinion	I was so excited about reading this book. All of the other reviews give it so much praise. Plus, it seems like a book I would like; I love historical novels, have a good sense of humor, love adventures, and am always drawn to a good satire. Unfortunately, nothing about this novel lived up to my expectations. <br />This novel follows Flashman through his adventures with the British Army during their Afghanistan War. My problem with the novel is based solely on the character Flashman, but that's a big problem since these are his memoirs. As all of the other reviews point out, Flashman is a total rogue. He is a coward, he's dishonest, he is a murderer, a rapist, an adulterer, a theif, etc. You name a bad trait, and Flashman excels at it, and he always gets away with it. That is where I differ in opinion with everyone else about this book. When Flashman rapes a woman, I'm afraid I have problems laughing when he gets away with it. I always wanted him to be caught, and given what he deserves. The fact that I could feel no sympathy for the main character (protagonist???) just ruined the novel for me, and I'm astonished that so many people just love this novel. I guess Flashman's behavior is supposed to be something of a satire over the male's behavior of the 19th century, but there isn't much depth to the satire (and less in Flashman's characterization). I know that a lot of people have obviously found a lot to enjoy in this novel, I can't think of anyone that I would recommend Flashman to (not even my enemies).	2002-08-03
US	47226334	R3N8IA1HB0H3Z6	0789426277	571795992	Forgotten Fire	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Searching for a Home	I once read where the Pulitzer Prize winning novelist Carol Shields said that a great novel should follow the characters' search for a metaphoric home. Forgotten Fire does that, both literally and metaphorically, and the result is a masterpiece of a novel.<br />The novel's protagonist is Vahan. At the beginning of the novel, he is one of the sons of a very rich and influencial Armenian lawyer. He is twelve. The family's life is certainly one of luxury and security. Then, the Armenian Holocaust begins, though. Vahan sees brothers murdered, his grandmother shot, and his sister's suicide among other almost unspeakable atrocities. Eventually, Vahan is forced to try to run, and that results in his three year struggle to survive alone in a country torn by war and the hatred of his race.<br />There are so many things that make this novel great. First, the characterizations are wonderful as you see Vahan forced to grow into a man. It is also inspiring to see a person like Vahan moving ahead in life in such horrible conditions. The writing is so good; the prose flows smoothly yet the narrative is unflinching and unsentimental. The novel also has the ability to blow you away with one beautiful piece of insight or one loving human relationship amongst the chaos. This is one of the most powerful reads I've had, and I'm sure that Forgotten Fire will never be forgotten. It will survive to remind the world of the plight of the Armenian people.	2002-07-31
US	47226334	R38FUV5G7ITLN0	0449003981	832554018	A Patchwork Planet (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"There's No Such Thing As Trivia."	\\"There's no such thing as trivia.\\" - That is a line that Anne Tyler wrote in A Patchwork Planet, and most of Anne Tyler's work can pretty much be somed up by that idea. Anne Tyler looks at the seemingly smallest apsect of the \\"ordinary\\" person's life, finds meaning in it, and lovingly writes a book about it.<br />This novel is about Barnaby Gaitlin. His family looks at him as basically a thirty-year-old loser, and he has made a lot of mistakes in his life, particularly during his younger years. But now, Barnaby has begun to realize many of his mistakes and is trying to grow up. His main problem is that all of the people around him still view him as he was when younger and will not trust him. In the novel, Barnaby has to confront his old self and the way the people around him view him.<br />A Patchwork Planet is a good book. As always, the characterizations are apt and insightful. There is the even blend of the drama and humor that makes up life. But although I did like the novel, I didn't enjoy it as much as the other Anne Tyler novels I have read. I think that the difference between this and the others (Breathing Lessons, Accidental Tourist, & Back When We Were Grownups) is that this is written in a first-person point of view. In the other novels, we get to see the characters through the loving narration of Tyler. Seeing the story through Barnaby's eyes doesn't endear his character to the reader. It's juster harder to love him. Nevertheless, that is a fairly small complaint. Overall, I did enjoy the book, and other Anne Tyler fans will too.	2002-07-31
US	47226334	R69I2NXABCMTL	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Bad Beginning - A Good Beginning to the Series	A Bad Beginning was a really good beginning to what seems will be a fun, though miserable, series.<br />This is the story of the Baudelaire's. To say that nothing goes right for them is an understatement. They face death, attempted murder, abuse, hunger, etc., etc. As each new trial, here meaning bad thing that happens to them, comes up, though, the three Baudelaire's lean on each other to come through the difficulty. <br />That's the great thing about the book. The children go through so many horrible things, mainly caused by Count Olaf, and yet they learn ways to trudge ahead using their intelligence, their humor, and their love for one another. The lessons taught are important for anyone to learn. Bad things do happen, but it is possible to survive and to be happy - especially since there is someone in the world who will love you and help you. The great lessons here are taught in a really interesting, humorous, and exciting story. I really recommend A Bad Beginning to everyone, and I am really looking forward to reading the rest of this series.	2002-07-28
US	47226334	R19UQEAO8KEFVL	0553213237	187732421	A Room with a View (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Lovely, Life Affirming	This elegant little novel totally swept me away. It is so perfect from any angle I look at it. I know that this will be one of those novels I will always keep in a prominent place on my bookshelf and return to my whole life.<br />This exquisite novel primarily concerns Lucy Honeychurch. The novel begins with Lucy on a trip in Italy. She is accompanied there mainly by members of her own society, the upper class of England among which she has been raised. While in Italy, though, Lucy is confronted by the Italian society where she notices the classes seem to mix easily. She is also confronted with George Emerson. George is simple, direct, and of a lower class, and he is having existential worries. Despite themselves (or their pasts), the two begin to fall in love with one another, and their experiences eventually lead to their realizations of what their hearts really desire.<br />As it is with all of my favorite novels, I really cannot do A Room With a View justice with this review. This is a truly lovely book. The prose and the pace is perfect. There are so many sentences which are just perfect little gems by themselves. The characterizations are complex. The plot is romantic and funny. The thought behind the novel is meaningful and life affirming. There's not much more that any novel can do. A Room With a View is perfection.	2002-07-28
US	47226334	R2OT66QPP46Q8M	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Brilliant	Darkness at Noon certainly deserves its place among the greatest novels of the Twentieth Century. It seems that no other work of any genre captures the thought behind the Communist movement of the century nearly as well. Furthermore, Koestler does so within a suspenceful, totally entertaining, and always enlightening novel.<br />The novel concerns Rubashov. Ruvashov was a great figure in the rise of Communism in Russia, but now, he has begun to realize the failures of his country and has been arrested. Two interrogators are appointed to get Rubashov to confess to bogus charges against the government. As he undergoes his imprisonment and interrogations, Rubashov begins to realize where he went wrong and where his country went wrong...I think that Koestler wasn't so much protesting the evils of Communism as an idea as he was protesting the way Communism was carried out in Russia. He shows how Communism failed in Russia because the idea of \\"the ends justifying the means\\" was followed so strictly. Following that code, Russia lost its spiritual center. It forgot to care for the individual. <br />There's really a lot more to the novel than that. There's no way a short review can do justice to the novel. I'll just say that Darkness at Noon is a masterpiece. Any intelligent reader should experience the novel. The experience will not be regreted.	2002-07-22
US	47226334	RQUCGTI00X2YN	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Every Year This Happens	I DO NOT READ ROMANCES.....except for once a year it seems. I don't know why, but it seems that July hits every year I go dashing for a light romance novel. I guess I just need to experience that little romantic emotional roller-coaster every once in a while. Well anyway, this July I ended up reading Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas, and I really loved it. Patterson's novel really satisfied whatever it was I was needing.<br />The novel begins with Katie. Katie has just been dumped by a great guy named Matt who she had expected to marry her. She can't explain why it happened. Then, a diary written by someone named Suzanne shows up on her porch from Matt. He writes a note saying that this will explain everything. (Mysterious huh.) Well, of course she goes on to read the diary, and you learn all about the amazing Suzanne and her fascinating life story.<br />Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas is a really good book. I know that it uses some pretty cliched techniques, but it's still a really entertaining read. The characters, especially Suzanne, are so loveable that you have to get caught up in this short book. Anyone looking for a light, romantic read will certainly enjoy this little gem.	2002-07-22
US	47226334	RK99RNKN6QQM9	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tolkien, Lewis, and yes, Alexander!	The Book of Three is the wonderful beginning to my favorite fantasy series. There absolutely isn't a flaw in the entire Prydain series, and there is nothing more entertaining than reading them.<br />The Book of Three is the beginning of the story of Taran and his wonderful companions. Here, Taran is a very naive and young Assistant Pig Keeper. He is in charge of keeping Hen Wen, the oracular pig, but Hen Wen sences the danger of the Horned King near and breaks away from Taran. Taran, wanting to ammend his error, begins his quest after her, and that quest leads him to his group of life-long friends and companions (Eilonwy, Fflewdur, Doli, Gurgi, and others). The quest also puts him in great danger from the Horned King, and Taran learns a lot about life and particularly, heroism along the way.<br />Really, I can't say enough about the brilliance of this book and this series. Alexander does what any great writer should; he entertains with an outstanding story, he creates interesting, three-dimensional characters, and the relationships and events these characters experience bring the characters and the reader to a much greater understanding about life. These are wonderful books which anyone can enjoy and learn from.	2002-07-21
US	47226334	R1UXZUFBFOA8J4	0451528018	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles: 150th Anniversary Edition (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Still Magnificant! The Mystery Novel that Started it All	I just read Laurie King's wonderful &quot;The Beekeeper's Apprentice&quot; in which she writes her take on Sherlock Holmes. That just wasn't enough Holmes for me, though; so I picked up Doyle's only Sherlock Holmes novel to read. I had somehow missed it, though I've read so many of the original tales. I expected this to be good and it was.<br />In &quot;The Hound of the Baskervilles,&quot; Holmes and Watson are confronted with an interesting case. On the moors of Wales, the Baskerville family has long told of a legendary hound who's purpose is to plague the family. It has always been considered only a legend, but then Charles Baskerville is killed, and it could be by that hound. It seems someone wants to be rid of the Baskervilles, and the heir of Charles Baskerville is in danger on the moors. Watson and Holmes, of course set out to solve the mystery.<br />The novel is a success. It is short with easily flowing prose. The case is classic Holmes; it's always intriguing. The atmosphere of the moor Doyle creates is compelling. The novel remains fairly intense until the climactic end. There's not much bad to say about it, except maybe a little more Holmes and a little less Watson would have been nicer. But overall, this is a fun and worthy read.	2002-07-19
US	47226334	R1V2MRL3YZ533G	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	5	6	9	N	N	BLASPHEME!!! Oh wait, this is pretty good......	I picked up this novel wanting to hate it. Really. It's just wrong to take the most popular character in Literature and make him your own....or at least I thought. The only thing that interested me about this novel at all was the astounding audacity of Laurie King, but that audacity did intrigue me. I picked up the novel, and it really blew me away. The writing is so superb, and the characters are so loveable and wonderful.<br />The premise of this novel really sounds absurd. Sherlock Holmes is getting older, moving into his fifties, but he's still just as sharp as he ever was. He's officially retired and taking care of bees, but he still manages to take on the occasional interesting case. Into his world, moves Mary Russell, the narrator, who at the beginning of the novel is 15 and is an American. Russell's mind is every bit as sharp as Holmes's, and he takes her under his wing to develop it. Together, the two go through a series of cases teaching Russell, and are eventually confronted with a case which challenges both to their upmost abilities.<br />There are so many strengths to this novel. First, the plots of the succeeding cases are extremely entertaining. The first cases develop the characters, and set the reader up for the enormous, suspenceful finale. I just love the narration, too. Mary Russell is humorous and insightful, and her prose and pace flows as elegantly as Jane Austen's. And of course, the primary success of The Beekeeper's Apprentice are the characterizations. Doyle created one of the great characters in literature with Sherlock Holmes, and King certainly respects the creation. King just shows newer dimensions to the character, her little take on him. In this novel, Holmes has every bit of the cleverness Doyle gave him and quite a bit of added humanity. Mary Russell is a wonderful counterpart for the aging detective, and the relationship developed between the two is really touching. The Beekeeper's Apprentice is truly a fantastic novel. I think that most, if not all, of Holmes's older fans can be won over by King's novel.	2002-07-16
US	47226334	RFTPLXLSUC8Y8	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Easy Going and Satisfying	I really didn't want to read this one when I picked it up. It was one of those books that kind of got pressed on me by a friend. Nevertheless, I was about 120 pages into it before I could put it down, and I really cared about what happened to these characters. I never became toooo passionate about reading this book, but it did keep me pretty engaged. There was some excellent writing and some wonderful characters.<br />This novel has three story lines which overlap at times. Each is a type of love story. The first is between between Deanna and Eddie. She is a fortyish forest ranger and he is a young hunter with whom she shares a passionate summer. The second concerns Lusa who quickly becomes a widow and tries to learn to deal with her new life and her inhereted inlaws. The third is between two older people, Garnett Walker and Nanny Rawley. He is the extreme old conservative fuddy-duddy, and Nanny is his eccentric liberal neighbor who he is trying to learn how to handle. <br />All of the stories take place in the southern Appalachians, and each is very intertwined with the environment of the area. And I think that is Kingsolver's purpose for writing the novel. She is describing the unique place that humans and human love have in nature. Really, this is a light, enjoyable read with some insight to offer the reader. Prodigal Summer is definitely worth a read.	2002-07-14
US	47226334	R12PALF7DWJGF3	1585671967	736542120	The Royal Physician's Visit	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Wow! A Modern Classic	It is really pretty rare that I read new books. I work at a library, and something about this one kind of interested me. I opened it up and read the first paragraph:<br />&quot;On April 5, 1768, Johann Friedrich Struensee was appointed Royal Physician to King Christian VII of Denmark, and four years later he was executed.&quot;<br />That one sentence had me hooked. I took it home, and this beautiful novel has quickly become one of the favorite reads I've had. The plot of the novel follows real events that happened in Denmark during the Enlightenment. They primarily follow four main characters: Struensee, King Christian VII, Caroline Mathilde, and Guldberg. Struensee was the royal physician appointed to take care of the king. The position allows him have power over the country to put in place many principals of the Enlightenment. It also places him near the queen with whom he falls in love. Christian is the insane king who is troubled, but remains human. Caroline Mathilde is the Queen whose passions drive the story to its end. Guldberg is the force fighting against Struensee and Caroline.<br />It may seem like the first sentence of the novel gives away everything, but it doesn't. Primarily, the beauty of this book lies in the brilliant characterizations, and the intense feelings that the characters develop. The novel is intensely romantic, but it is also extremely literary. The novel, besides being a powerful story, also serves to disect the thought that drove this period in history. The novel also contains intriguing insights into Christianity and existentialism. Really, this novel is a masterpiece from any angle it is looked at. It serves to entertain any reader and it can enlighten him or her. What more can be asked of from a novel? Please, read this novel if you can get your hands on it. You won't regret it.	2002-07-03
US	47226334	R3SIWTF77HYW4Y	0380729407	944543338	Something Wicked This Way Comes	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great Great	Great.<br />Something Wicked This Way Comes is a little gothic masterpiece by Ray Bradbury. The story concerns Will Holloway, his best friend Jim Nightshade, and his father Charles Holloway. One October a carnival comes to town. The carnival is run by a group of freaks who are intent on evil. The entire town, and particularly the two boys, and put in terrible danger. That all leads to a tremendous climax as Will, Jim, and Charles have to try to learn the true nature of good and evil to save themselves and the town.<br />I can't believe that some people have written that this book is dated. I don't think that anyone will be saying that after the events of September 11. As long as fathers and sons still love one another and as long as there is evil to strive againgst, this novel will still be extremely valid. Something Wicked This Way Comes is fairly symbolic, and comments greatly on the nature of good and of evil. The story is fascinating and enlightening. Absolutely any reader can read this wonderful novel, be moved by it, and come away with a better understanding of human nature. I don't think that Ray Bradbury gets the credit he deserves, but any read of one of his novels will prove to the reader that he is a GREAT novelist.	2002-06-25
US	47226334	R21US48POW9X8A	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Light and Enjoyable	There's not a whole lot of depth to this novel. There's not even too much origality. Crichton does create a fairly successful novel though. What he does is take several different genres - time travel, swashbuckling - and he combines them. He does so with a lot of humor and some decent characterizations. The technical writing part of this about time travel is so intriguing that it doesn't make you lose any interest in the book. He employs a lot of techniques like leaving a cliffhanger at the end of a chapter and using the against-the-clock device. Crichton doesn't break any new ground here, but a reader looking for pure entertainment should definitely be pleased with this fun novel.	2002-06-20
US	47226334	RFC670KB5YWHA	0375412530	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Great People, Great Insights	I have recently become a huge Anne Tyler fan, and this is one of my favorites of hers so far. Anne Tyler writes about the things that should be written about - real people going through real dilemmas and gaining insight from them.<br />Here, her subject is Rebecca Davitch - a 53-year-old widow with a large, eccentric family. Recently, Rebecca has been going through a little crisis. She is unhappy with her place in the world, and she wonders if she became the wrong person. This thought sparks her search for her true self. She goes back to her roots; she begins dating her high school sweetheart and begins studying her old interests. But her search is also forced to include her family from whom she reaps great insight into how she should really lead her life.<br />Back When We Were Grownups is an all around wonderful novel. The characterizations are complete. You love the people and hope for them. They make you laugh and they make you think. The book is always entertaining and the final message is both family affirming and life affirming. This is a truly charming and worthwhile story, very worthy of a read by anyone.	2002-06-12
US	47226334	R3A60TZG0J1UP3	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	The Dystopia that is American Culture	With White Noise, Don Delillo creates a powerful satire one the real nature of American culture and in influences creating it. The images are astounding. The humor is biting, but truly funny. Delillo is a genius. The world he presents is one dominated my the media. The is an amazing passage where a young girl, in an almost religious experience, says the words \\"Toyota Celica\\" in her sleep. Families here can only spend time together watching tv. They cannot connect. There people are driven to escape thier own deaths. They immerse themselves in excess (particularly of sex). They try to forget their identities using drugs. They try to escape their identities by conforming to the same one as everyone els. They relish watching disasters on tv and in real life because it affirms their own life. They cannot feel mercy or love for other humans. The dominant attitude about violence and death is \\"better you than me.\\" The world has lost the ability to deal with death (and life) because the world presented is losing religion. Man needs these absolute truths to give stucture to their lives, but Delillo shows the world it losing to technology and a relativistic viewpoint. Here morality is being lost. Delillo presents a total Wasteland. The novel is a very apt look at America today, and it is every bit as scary as Brave New World. White Noise is a powerful novel with so much to say to America today.	2002-05-31
US	47226334	R1RWMPYDER82FI	0060931736	177553936	Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Underrated Little Classic	I read The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie because it was on the Modern Library List of the greatest novels of the 20th Century, and I knew it was pretty short. I thought it would be interesting to see why it made that list. As it turns out, I think The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie is one of the books which earned its place on that list.<br />The novel concerns Miss Brodie and here five students. She has chosen these five in order to craft them into her image. Miss Brodie is a spinster and wants to live her life through them. Miss Brodie imparts all of her views on them even though they conflict with the more conservative views of the school. Miss Brodie's views are very liberal. She is very frank when talking to her students about her sexual liasons, and she encourages some of them to become sexually active with a male teacher. Miss Brodie is also a fascist, and she tries to impart these views on the students, too. In the end, you see the ways in which she has influenced her students.<br />The novel is really superb. I seems to comment on the how ideals can be taken too far and can be checked. Miss Brodie also seems to represent Calvinism and Fascism. She contrasts Miss Brodie's position with the school's more conservative positions. The novel is written in superb prose (I'm not sure why people complain). The repetitions in the prose are there for a reason (to represent propaganda). The characterizations, particularly of Miss Brodie and Sandy, are apt. It's really a graceful novel with a lot to say (much of which I agree with). It's definitely thought provoking and very worth a read.	2002-05-29
US	47226334	R2SYD2CVDBGJER	0425092917	597669853	The Accidental Tourist	Books	4	3	3	N	N	All the Lonely People	There's a great passage about halfway through this novel. Macon, the protagonist, is flying and he looks out the window to see the roofs of houses. All of a sudden &quot;It came to him very suddenly that every little roof concealed actual lives. Well, of course he'd known that, but all at once it took his breath away. He saw how real those lives were to the people who lived them-how intense and private and absorbing.&quot; That passage almost sums up the writing of Anne Tyler. She is fascinated by the &quot;small&quot; lives of normal people.<br />Here, Tyler examines Macon. He and his wife's son was murdered senselessly about and year before, and the loss has torn apart their lives. When Macon's wife Sarah leaves him, he scrambles to put some order into his life. He stumbles into a relationship with the eccentric Muriel, a single mother from a totally different world as Macon. Eventually, his wife comes back into the picture. Macon is forced to totally examine these relationships and to squeeze insight out of them to determine where he should go with his life.<br />Really, that is an extremely elementary summary of the book. The relationships and characterizations are so complex. The Accidental Tourist is a wonderfully written novel. The insights Tyler gives about the character are so apt. It is such a finely crafted novel. It is so fun to see how a paragraph about a cat at the beginning of the novel or how the marriage between to minor characters (Julian and Rose) can totally enlighten the situation between Macon and Sarah/Muriel. This is a wonderful novel, and I can't wait to experience Anne Tyler's other works.	2002-05-29
US	47226334	R1FTGBWAQ115E6	044900483X	641199639	Children of God (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful, But Not Quite the Poetry of The Sparrow	Children of God by Mary Doria Russell is a magnificent book. It offers extremely satisfying science fiction, and it provides meaningful insight on man's relationship with God, asking tough questions about our relationsip with God and in the end offering great hope.<br />This does continue the story of The Sparrow which needed to be done. In Children of God, Emilio Sandoz leaves the priesthood and falls in love. Nevertheless, he still somehow ends up traveling back to Rakhat to face the terrible things that happened to him there. This novel doesn't just focus on Emilio as The Sparrow did, though. Children of God is much more plot oriented than The Sparrow. This novel uses a much wider panorama of characters, including extensive omniscient sections dealing with new inhabitants on Rakhat and with new members of this expeditions to Rakhat.<br />Children of God is not quite as good as The Sparrow mainly because it is so focused on the plot. In The Sparrow, Russell's primary focus was to deal with the great dilemma that Emilio is facing, his struggle to love a God who allows him to go through such pain. The Sparrow is written to a thesis which ever word of the novel builds towards. Children of God isn't so tightly focused. Excess pages and chapters are here which focus on less meaningful conflicts and characters and which don't always serve enlighten the reader. The book is still an amazingly compelling read, but it is slightly overlong. Children of God does have some amazing strengths, though. Russell is still examining humankind's relationship to God, here presented with much more of a Jewish view of God than the Christian view. Russell is still dealing with the problem of pain, still asking why it is man must suffer so much in this world. In Children of God, Russell delivers an amazing message of hope to man. We may not always understand God's poetry. In our lifetimes, we may not see any reason or our pain, but that doesn't mean God is not there loving us and injectinggreat meaning into our lives through pain. Children of God is a fabulous read and is very enlightening. By itself, it is not as good as The Sparrow, but together, the two novels make up some of the greatest literature I have ever read.	2002-05-23
US	47226334	RW8G9PUWE36L7	0141301074	496532448	The Twits	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Devilishly Funny	The Twits is so hilarious. I've always been a fan Roald Dahl's, but I had never experienced this comic gem. The giggling begins on the first page, and it reaches a huge climax a quick 76 pages later. You will probably be doubled over laughing by then. Everything about the book is funny as you watch Mr. and Mrs. Twit pull prank after totally original prank on each other (the pranks include frogs, glass eyes, and balloons among other things). Then, you find out that the mean, awful Twits have been trying to raise an upside down monkey circus, and the monkeys want to get their freedom and to get back at the Twits. Their ingenious plot to get back at the Twits provides the biggest laughs of the book. Even the small descriptions are funny. My favorite line in the book comes when Dahl is describing the yard. He writes of the tree: \\"To one side (of the house) there is The Big Dead Tree. It never has any leaves on it because it's dead.\\" I'm not totally sure why, but that line almost had me crying. This is one of the most fun reads I've ever had, and the illustrations are great, too. Anytime you're feeling bad, I would certainly suggest this delightful (even if a little mean) read.	2002-05-20
US	47226334	R1O6UR86RUWM4Q	0140184996	512173793	The Power and the Glory (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	143	156	N	Y	A Good Man is Hard to Find	I really don't know how to review this novel; there is simply too much the novel has to say to cover it all her in a short review. Anything I write will be totally inadequate. I can only say that The Power and the Glory is certainly one of the greatest novels written in the Twentieth Century.<br />The novel is the story of a priest in Mexico in a state which has outlawed Christianity. The priest is trying to get out of the state and away from the athiestic lieutenant who's attempting to capture him, but the priest's Christian duty keeps calling him back into the state and into danger. The priest is also waging a war within himself. He is a good man but definitely a sinner, and he struggles to cure himself of his vices and struggles to believe that he can gain salvation.<br />The Power and the Glory assaults the reader on all levels. Greene explores so many aspects and paradoxes of Christianity. He looks at the great beauty that can be found in sin. He looks at how love and hate can be so similar. Greene reveals how the priest's life has had great meaning even thought the priest may not realize it. Greene reveals man as living in a &quot;Wasteland,&quot; and he also reveals the way to find meaning in it. The characterizations of all of the characters really carry the novel. There are so many insights that can be gained from reading about the priest, the lieutenant, and the mestizo. The Power and the Glory is truly a magnificent novel which should be taught and studied everywhere.	2002-05-19
US	47226334	R1DZSO3CIM8DD3	0805002138	712926184	The Wind in the Willows	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Extraordinarily Beautiful Book	Somehow, I missed The Wind in the Willows when I was growing up. I knew the basic story from the movie and from an extremely abridged version, but I had never experienced Kenneth Grahame's actual novel. I didn't expect it to be very much different, but I was amazed by the reading experience of the actual novel. The world Grahame created is truly original and fascinating, and I don't think it can be captured in another medium besides the actual novel. I don't know if wonderful books like Watership Down and the Redwall series could exist without this. The characters are also so enjoyable. Rat, Mr Badger, Toad, and (my favorite) Mole are written with such warmth. They (with the contrast of Toad of course) exemplify old-time values. Grahame celebrates friendship, homelife, and the wonder of nature. My favorite section of the book is the chapter \\"Pipers at the Gates of Dawn.\\" In it, Mole and Ratty find such beautiful in the sound of the wind blowing through the reeds on the side of the river. The effect of the section (written in such gorgeous prose) is almost metaphysical. The two friends see such joy in a life where you can experience such beauty in the world within such a strong friendship. The Wind in the Willows is truly a magnificent read which deserves to have lasted this long. Grahame's creation is still fresh and children and adults will surely continue to enjoy it for many years to come.	2002-05-16
US	47226334	R3FI4H6AF50SKZ	0553213768	591439555	The Phantom of the Opera (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Pretty Good Escapist Literature	I have always been a huge fan of this type of story. Some of my favorite books are adventures form this era like Orczy's The Scarlet Pimpernel, Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda, and Sabatini's Scaramouche. The swashbuckling genre can really make such fun reads. I was expecting a lot from The Phantom of the Opera because it is so famous since the musical, but while I was entertained, I was a little bit disappointed. <br />The novel is entertaining. I truly liked the story of the love between Raoul and Christine. The character of the Erik was so intriguing, and Leroux's atmosphere was pretty good. This can be an extremely enjoyable read for many people, especially those who love the musical. I only thought that the author's narrative techniques seemed a little dated. The historian telling the story really detracts a lot of suspence from the story. Also, certain plot aspects aren't lead up to in any way. I mean all of a sudden, there is this brand new character, the Perian, who knows all about Erik and you briefly get his story. It just doesn't make too much sense.<br />That all said, it was definitely an interesting read. The novel just hit on a few things which happen to annoy me. A lot of people would enjoy this novel, and novels of this genre should not be forgotten.	2002-05-14
US	47226334	RV8UEKKW9MRR6	0374400164	246153383	Abel's Island	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Best Children's Book Yet? Maybe	Abel's Island by William Steig is truly one of the best children's books that has been produced. Any person, young or old, can learn from this beautiful little novel and be moved by it. <br />It is the story of Abel, a mouse who one day is separated from his wife by a terrible storm. Abel had been a rich, secure mouse in his former life. But in his new life, alone on an island, he learns to challenge himself. His experiences give him great insights into his true being. He also learns to appreciate that he really had in his former life, especially the love of his wife.<br />The plot is very simple to the novel. Abel has to survive and try to get back to his wife. It is very Robinson Crusoesque. But the novel is told with such warmth and humor that the reader is totally enraptured by this tale. The prose is so beautiful, the character's so endearing, and the insights are so great that no one who reads it will ever forget it. I just finished carrying it around for a couple of days on a college campus while I was rereading it, and it was seen and remembered by so many of my fellow students who cherished as students. Any child should read this as should any adult.	2002-05-04
US	47226334	R1O4Q3WYGAL8HS	042511774X	595375829	Breathing Lessons	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Extraordinary in the Ordinary	I find that the greatest novels are those which find meaning and give insights into the lives of real people. Anne Tyler certainly does that in this wonderful novel full of complete characters, humor, and loads of insight.<br />This is the story of one day in the life of Ira and Maggie Moran. They are on a car trip to a friend of Maggie's husband's funeral. Along the way, you get the story of their marriage. You also learn so much about their characters. Maggie is the eternal optimist; she believes that the best will happen for the people she loves. She sees only the best in those people, and she tries to manipulate their lives for her vision them. Ira is the opposite. He is cynical and stoic on the outside, but inside, feels deeply for everyone. The two deeply love each other even though they don't always realize it. Maggie's primary concern on the trip is to stop by and see her ex-daughter-in-law Fiona and her grandaughter Leroy. Maggie deeply believes that Fiona is still in love with her son Jesse, and she wants to try to convince them to get back together.<br />And that forms the outline for the whole book. Tyler gets to study the institute of marriage from three angles: that of a couple who has lived together quietly and happily for many years, that of the couple where one has passed away, and that of the young couple who didn't make it. The result is amazing. It is thoughtful, sad, funny, and basically, entertaining on any level. Breathing Lessons is a fine novel which should be read over and over. Also, I must recommend The Spectator Bird and other novels by Wallace Stegner to people who enjoy Anne Tyler.	2002-04-26
US	47226334	R3L2WFH7AXV5HC	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Absolute Masterpiece	Invisible Man is one of the greatest novels of this century. Ellison only published the one novel during his lifetime, but he was correct when he said that there wasn't much more to say.<br />Invisible Man is told my an unnamed narrator (an effective device since the narrator hasn't totally found his existential self). He is an African American from the south living in New York. He has come to the realization that he is invisible in that people choose (conciously or subconciously) to look through him. He then tells the story of his life which has lead him to that epiphany.<br />Invisible Man is really marvelous. It is an existential novel of not really an African American in a prejudiced time and place, but really an American trying to find his identity in that prejudiced country. Ellison has so much to say about the races being a little of each other, not really being separate. He has so much to say to all of humanity. He tells everything in a smoothly written narrative. The prose is beautiful. The plot is entertaining and causes thought. This novel is just as valid today as it was when written and cannot be missed by the upcoming generation.	2002-04-17
US	47226334	R2W3VMC7DQVJ8M	067166154X	435623989	Sylvester and the Magic Pebble	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Classic for all Ages	William Steig's Sylvester and the Magic Pebble is one of the greatest picture books yet written. Steig is really the master of the genre. <br />The story is of Sylvester, who is accidentally turned into a rock by a magic pebble. This horrid situation causes Sylvester and his family to realize the true love they have shared and tosses them into total boredom with life. They have to find a way to get back to one another.<br />The book is so moving. The pictures are beautiful as is the prose. The story teaches the joy of love that families should share. It can also be read on an even deeper level as a metaphor for death and the redemptive power of love. Overall, this is an entertaining and brilliant book which can pack an enormous punch within its few pages.	2002-04-13
US	47226334	R23BVBWUZ06SSH	0449912558	541384114	The Sparrow: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Sparrow - Hope for Humanity	The Sparrow is a magnificant novel. The plot is so compelling. The message of the novel, one of ultimate hope, is of utter importance.<br />The novel started when the author, an anthropologist, began to ponder the historical treatment of Colombus and the other discovers of the New World. She wondered if man would do any better today. She presented this through a Jesuit mission to Rakhat, an alien planet. Russell explores this issue of mixing such vastly different cultures thoroughly, but she moves on to a much more compelling concern.<br />The novel primarily concerns Emilio Sandoz, the Jesuit priet who first proposed the mission to Rakhat. Sandoz is the only member of the crew to return to Earth alive. His experiences on Rakhat have been almost unimaginably cruel. Sandoz has been thrown in a terrible situation. In his sufferings, he has not exactly lost his faith, but worse, he has come to hate God. That is the topic that Russell explores. How is it possible to believe in, and love, a God in a world where man must undergo such pain and suffering? Russell's answer to that question packs an amazing blow, and offers such a message of hope to humanity. The title of the novel refers to that message as &quot;spero&quot; in Latin means &quot;I hoped.&quot;<br />The Sparrow is such an amazing read on so many levels. It entertains and more importantly, leaves the reader enlightened on the nature of God. The Sparrow could go down as a classic.	2002-03-16
US	47226334	R2FHWWA9WP0XR8	0395978270	253944481	A Single Shard (Newbery Medal Book)	Books	4	18	24	N	N	A Single Shard Was a Good Book	I'm not sure if A Single Shard by Linda Sue Park actually deserved the Newberry Medal, but it was a pretty good book.<br />This is the story of Tree-ear who is an orphan in Twelfth-Century Korea. He has lived under a bridge near a small potters' village and has been raised by Crane-man, a homeless widower. Crane-man has raised Tree-ear with love, teaching him those lessons needed for survival. Eventually, Tree-ear longs to become a potter. One day, Min gets a chance to provide a service for the village's best potter. It is a service which could eventually bring about the fulfillment of his dreams, but which could do just the opposite.<br />There are two real strengths to the novel. The first is the historical aspect. Park did a wonderful job of recreating Twelfth-Century Korea. Also, the relationships depicted are apt and insightful. I only had one small problem with the book. One legend related in the novel is a Masada-like story of a mass-suicide. The \\"bravery\\" of the women who chose death over a rough life is lauded. The message sent in that story is never refuted, and I've never liked that message or thought that it should be a strong message sent to children. Nevertheless, that isn't the primary message of the novel, and the novel very good, though not great. If you like this novel, you will probably also like Yang-fu of the Upper Yang-tze.	2002-03-15
US	47226334	R3E59ON55FYT7K	0486414175	226373744	Gitanjali (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Such Beautiful and Original Poems	Gitanjali, by the great Indian Nobel Prize-winning-poet Rabindranath Tagore, is a beautiful collection of spiritual prose-poems. It is extrememly interesting when read from a Christian perspective. The poems are all written to one transcendant God and are almost all somewhat Biblical in their phrasings and images. The poems celebrate the absolute joy of being created: &quot;I have had my invitation to this world's festival, and thus my life has been blessed.&quot; They also celebrate the many simple joys of life. Some poems of Gitanjali are apt explanations of the &quot;problem of pain.&quot; Tagore's assertation that God's spirit is not most evident in a worship service but in the way man reacts to others is very important. The primary thing expressed by Tagore is exactly the same thing expressed by Christianity: love for God and love for humanity should be central to life.  <br />I do not know much about Rabindranath Tagore's life. I have only read some of his poetry. Though it comes from a vastly different world-view from that of my own, much of the thought he expresses is similar to my own, and it enlightens my own. Tagore's language is also so moving and beautiful. Gitanjali is a masterpiece which I would like to see read more often.	2002-03-14
US	47226334	R3IZIFYAQYBGLU	0679443703	529071409	Friendship Poems (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Really Beautiful Expressions of Friendship	It is very easy to find a beautiful love poem. Passion is such a strong emotion that it has inspired countless lyrics. But it is very difficult to find a great friendship-love poem. That more stable type of love seems to move under the radar. Nevertheless, there are some wonderful poems that express love for friends, and Peter Washington has found the best of them and included them in this wonderful collection. Some of the best poems included are (the originally titled) &quot;Friendship&quot; found in traditional Aztec verse, &quot;Love and Friendship&quot; by Bronte, &quot;My Lovely Friends&quot; by Sappho, &quot;Being Her Friend&quot; and &quot;The Word&quot; by John Masefield, and finally, &quot;To My Friends&quot; by Primo Levi. These poems really moved me and gave me a lot of insight into my relationships. They also helped me to express my love for my friends to them. Peter Washington has (actually) truly made the process of selecting poems for an anthology an art, and I cannot thank him and the authors of these poems enough.	2002-03-10
US	47226334	R3EUWG02OTMWDG	006091341X	937627939	The Bridge of San Luis Rey (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Love is Enough	The hardest books to review are your favorites. This is my fifth attempt on this one.<br />The Bridge of San Luis Rey concerns one of the primary questions of human existance. Does God have a plan for our deaths and is there a reason we die? (Pretend that was only one question.) This novel is certainly the best to explore the topic. It is vastly insightful and gives its insight within a powerful narrative.<br />The novel begins with the collapse of the bridge of San Luis Rey which kills the five people crossing it. Brother Juniper witnesses the catastrophe, and he decides to use this opportunity to study the reasons for death. What follows is the story of each of the persons' lives who died. In each story you find a connecting bond: love. Each had been touched by love. The stories together reaveal simply that. Everyones' life matters because of love, and the dead are still connected to the living by a bridge of love.<br />What I've written about the novel is really too simplistic. The Bridge of San Luis Rey is only a very short novel, but within those pages is a multitude of insight which cannot be explained in a short review (especially without giving away too much of the book). I think that I'll just conclude this rambling review by saying that this is a beautiful little novel which deserves a place among the very top novels of last century. I also think that in wake of the Sept. 11 tragedy, The Bridge of San Luis Rey could gain importance by giving the people affected insight into the tragedy and comfort them.	2002-01-09
US	47226334	R3RP5U9TOSE62P	034543014X	544398776	The Princess Bride: S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure (The 25th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	67	70	N	Y	One of the Greatest	Fencing. Fighting. Torture. Poison. True love. Hate. Revenge. Giants. Hunters. Bad men. Good men. Beautifulest ladies. Snakes. Spiders. Beasts of all natures and descriptions. Pain. Death. Brave men. Coward men. Strongest men. Chases. Escapes. Lies. Truths. Passion. Miracles. GREAT LITERATURE.<br />There's not a whole lot that's not in this novel. It succeeds at being maybe the funniest, most exciting, and satisfying stories yet written. Plus, the novel contains startling depth.<br />The writing of the novel is so superb. The prose is smooth and light. It is really conversational, and word-play abounds. The novel also (as the Amazon review pointed out) serves as a satire of adventure and fantasy novels of the past and comments on the differences between fantasy and reality. The structure of the novel (with the hilarious first chapter, the flashbacks, and the author-commentary) serves to frame those bits of insight Goldman is trying to get across. Consider the line &quot;Life isn't fair, it's just fairer than death, that's all.&quot; There's a lot in those words, and throughout the story, Goldman hammers home real truths about the nature of pain, death, and grief. And yet paradoxically, out of those truths The Princess Bride emerges as a story to give its reader reaffirmation in the greatness of life.<br />As you may can tell, The Princess Bride is my favorite novel. I've read it numerous times, and each time I read it, the book is better. I know that everybody watches the movie, and yes, the movie is great. Even a masterpiece. But the novel goes far beyond that. Read it.	2002-01-03
US	47226334	RLLDYDXKYL4ZC	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Such a Poignant Novel	I had never read anything by Chaim Potok when a friend recommended this novel to me a couple weeks ago. I have a feeling that I will soon be getting to know his literature very well. There are so many wonderful things to say about this novel. The reading of My Name is Asher Lev is almost a physical experience. I found it impossible to set the book aside, and upon reading the last page, I was totally exhausted.<br />My Name is Asher Lev is the fictional memoir of Asher Lev. Asher traces his life from the time he was a toddler being raised in a Chasidic Jewish community in Brooklyn. From the beginning, Asher has powerful artistic impulses which Asher's father looks upon as foolishness. As he grows, Ashers artistic impulses and talents thrive throwing him into deep conflict with his family and with his faith.<br />The novel is so powerful and well-written. I am a nineteen-year-old for years has for years felt the urge to become a writer. I have never read anything where the demands and nature of art were better captured. Also, the characterizations of Asher and his family and all of the &quot;small&quot; supporting characters are so apt and powerful. The evocation of the religious community that Asher lives in is compelling. There is really nothing less than perfect about this novel. My Name is Asher Lev should certainly go down as a classic.	2002-01-03
US	47226334	R2LE208E7924PC	0679600019	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wilde Really Was a Genius	When Wilde landed in America in 1882 for a lecture tour, he was asked if he had anything to declare. He responded, &quot;Only my genius.&quot; Okay now, an attitude like that didn't exactly make me want to read any of his works for a long time. Finally, I decided to try The Picture of Dorian Grey, and I found that it really was a work of genius.<br />The novel is the story of Dorian Grey who at the beginning of the novel has his portrait painted by Basil Hallward. The picture turns out to be remarkable, and Grey becomes jealous because the picture will remain young and beautiful while he will age. He expresses a wish that the picture would age instead of himself. To his delight, his wish becomes true, and believing himself to be immortal, he embarks on a path of of hedonism. He always searches for pleasure above happiness, and above all things he loves beauty. Along the way, the portrait chronicles the total moral decay of Dorian Grey.<br />The are a lot of interpretations to this novel. My favorite is to read it as a moral tale warning of the consequences of leading a life of hedonism. It could almost be read as &quot;The Picture of Oscar Wilde&quot; as he seems to be criticizing his own lifestyle. This is probably also the most ironic reading of it since Wilde continued after the novel to preach aestheticism. But anyway, taken within itself, the novel is marvelous. The prose is well-polished. The pacing is elegant and the plot is always interesting. The points is makes are important. The Picture of Dorian Grey deserves its classic status, and Oscar Wilde actually was a bit of a genius.	2002-01-01
US	47226334	RUS8MFTW233OS	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Thrilling Beginning, It Deserves Its Classic Status	I've read so many bad things about the Lord of the Rings books that I really didn't think that I would like this book. Now that I've read it, I don't think that the word &quot;like&quot; would do the book justice. The Fellowship of the Rings is a true classic, and the book really deserves its popularity.<br />This is the well-known story of Frodo. He has the unfortunate destiny of being the bearer of a ring that could give the dark forces of Middle Earth unbeatable power. Frodo, along with some friends is given the task of traveling into the middle of those dark forces to destory the ring.<br />That is a really, really, really simplistic synopsis of the plot of the novel. Tolkien created an entire world within the pages of the book and the reader gets all of it. The creation is really amazing, and the writing itself is not bad. The characterizatioin are very good. The prose isn't archaic, and it flows nicely giving the reader each emotion that Tolkien meant for the reader to have. There is a lot of action. It is always exciting. I am only sad that I put off reading the book until I saw that a its movie was about to come out. I know that millions of readers have enjoyed The Fellowship of the Ring, and millions more will surely read and be captivated by this in centuries to come.	2001-12-28
US	47226334	R1JY5899S535MV	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Original, Entertaining, and Profound	I love the quote by Douglas Glover that is in the cover of the novel: &quot;Strikingly original, richly energettic...a stunning book, full of magic and portent.&quot; That really seems to capture the novel. <br />The Shipping News is the story of Quoyle. Quoyle is a pretty huge loser who decides to relocate when his wife is killed in an car accident. He, along with his two daughters and his aunt, move to their ancestor's old home in Newfoundland. He finds a job at the local newspaper, and the family settles down amongst the huge cast of local eccentrics. Among those people, the family finally begins to learn about the things that had been missing in their lives (primarily, the ability to love), and they begin to learn how to be happy.<br />The writing in the book is marvelous. Proulx invokes the most extraordinary images and metaphors which really enhance the reading of the novel. The characterizations and the character's insights are amazing. The Shipping News is a fabulous novel which will hopefully gain quite a few readings with the release of the movie.	2001-12-20
US	47226334	R2EIEEE0N65J8	0531068366	926567377	The Ramsay Scallop	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Unusual but Brilliant Young Adult Novel	The Ramsay Scallop is a very good young adult novel, though it has a few flaws. The story is set in the year 1299, and its two main characters are Eleanor and Thomas. The two are betrothed to one another through an arranged marriage, but they neither one can bear the thought of marriage. Thomas, who has been away fighting in the crusades, only remembers Eleanor as &quot;The Brat&quot; who he pestered as a child. Eleanor only remembers Thomas as a cruel kid, and she fears having to bear children because of her slight build. Though they neither one relish the thought of marriage, there really isn't an alternate choice for the two of them....that is, until Father Gregory decides to send them on a pilgrimage to Spain together. Along the way, the two meet people and have experiences that begin to draw them towards one another. They begin to realize the beauties that the other holds for them. <br />The novel could be perfect except for two flaws. One is that sometimes the prose is unpolished and rough. The pace is slow (which is not a fault), but sometimes the prose along with that pacing makes the story drag a bit too much. Younger readers, in particular, may have trouble getting through these slower parts. The other flaw with the novel is with its clumsy handling of God. Temple is very correct to introduce religion to the book. The conflicts that each character in the book may have with Europe's religion are important and valid. But Temple only seems to introduce the topic. She raises questions about what the main characters believe and are beginning to believe, but before she finishes studying the topic, she drops it. <br />Though there are some small flaws with the novel, The Ramsay Scallop has some definite strong points. Overall, it is difficult to find very much better than it is. It is even more rare to find a book with this kind of writing set in the Middle Ages. The Ramsay Scallop is a fascinating young adult novel.	2001-11-27
US	47226334	R394XJV045WTMM	1886910553	658705307	Many Stones	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Deft Writing and Characterizations	Many Stones by Carolyn Coman is another outstanding addition to the field of young adult literature. It certainly deserved every award and every bit of praise that it received. It is rare to find a novel of any genre with as much insight into a human's life.<br />The novel is of Berry, a &quot;normal&quot; American teenager, who has a number of problems. The main two are that she hasn't yet been able to cope with the death of her sister, Laura (who was murdered in South Africa), and she has a terrible relationship with her father who left her family years before. The novel is told by Berry as she and her father undergo a trip to South Africa for the unveiling of a memorial to Laura's memory. Along the way, Coman explores Berry. She reveals the way Berry has reacted to the murder of her sister. She also gives insight into the relationship between Berry and her father, especially in the light of their shared loss. coman also uses the setting of South Africa to great effect. She portays the parallels of the country trying to forgive and reconsile after decades of apartheid with the way Berry feels about the murder and about the attackers. <br />Coman definitely gives the reader a lot to think about and to chew on. She really knows the teenage mind well, and she is one of the very few with enough talent to translate that knowledge into story. Many Stones is another magnificant young adult novel my Coman and another by British and American novelists.	2001-11-08
US	47226334	R2WQBLHDT5NCQK	0140309268	916160685	Secret of the Andes (Puffin Book)	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Important Reading	Secret of the Andes by Ann Nolan Clark is a marvelous children's novel which can be very important reading for children. The beautiful novel certainly earned its Newbery Medal. <br />The novel is the story of Cusi. He is an Inca boy who has been raised in a remote valley of the Andes mountain range by an old man, Chuto. Cusi is of royal Inca blood, but this is four hundred years after the Spanish conquest. Cusi has been raised in the traditional Inca manner. The plot of the novel concerns Cusi's search for himself. He has been raised without a &quot;family&quot; (at least in the traditional sense), and he is sent from the valley, with the companionship of his pet llama, to find his path in the world, a task that he sees as finding himself a family. The world Cusi goes into is one which is very different from the one he has been raised in because the Spanish culture has become predominant. Then, Cusi is forced to come to terms with his own way of life and with what his concept of &quot;family&quot; should be.<br />Secret of the Andes is an amazing book. I think that it can be extremely important in helping children to understand the view-point of Native Americans and helping them to understand Native American literature later in life. I also found that this novel was, in ways, similar to adult novels like Chinua Achebe's Things Fall Apart. It aids in this understanding through a fairly simple story of a young, regular boy who can be related to. Ann Nolan Clark really created a masterpiece with Secret of the Andes.	2001-10-17
US	47226334	R1X8M2GSN2R32W	156792140X	287869230	The Country of the Pointed Firs	Books	5	7	10	N	N	True Masterpiece	The Country of the Pointed Firs by Sarah Orne Jewett is a masterpiece of world fiction. True, nothing much happens in this novel. It is just a series of sketches about regular people in New England in the Nineteenth Century living out their daily lives. But in that simplicity lies the real beauty of the novel; Jewett finds beauty and meaning in the &quot;small&quot; happenings of &quot;small&quot; lives.<br />The characterizations in this novel are delicate and well-developed. The prose is extremely clean and readable. The overall picture of the life in the village is magnificent. People from small towns (like myself) will certainly enjoy it the most. The Country of the Pointed Firs is a fantastic novel which ought to be read more often. It is rare to find a novel that creates such an epic scale by just looking through a small scope.	2001-10-11
US	47226334	R2MC5FNEUDDG7L	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Masterpiece, A Classic	Through the years, I have read a number of the Booker Prize Winners: books like The English Patient, Possession, and Schindler's List, and each time I have been fortunate to fine them to be superb pieces of literature. The Remains of the Day is certainly in the highest ranks of the Booker Prize Winning Novels. It is so beautifully written, it is so thought-provoking, and it is so moving.<br />The narrator of the novel is Stevens, the perfect English butler. He is writing a journal as he takes a motoring trip across England to meet with a Miss Kenton to hire her. Along the way, Stevens begins to reflect on his life. He wonders if his life was wasted in service to others, and he wonders if the man he served was in fact a decent man. Stevens questions himself, mainly about his relationship with Miss Kenton. To the reader, more is revealed through what is not said by this man intent on being a stoic. The novel isn't just a character study, though. The novel also serves to reflect on an English society which has long resisted change. He also studies that moral delimma of tradition verses change.<br />The Remains of the Day is such a superb novel. The characterizationis are marvelous and intriguing. The novel works on many levels. The novel also flows so smoothly due to the author's beautiful prose. The Remains of the Day is one of the rare and brilliant books of the century.	2001-08-16
US	47226334	RZALB649VH8G3	B000023VWR	525245685	The Postman Always Rings Twice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly Good	I'm usually not a big reader of crime novels, and I didn't think that I would like this one very much. I was very interested in reading it though because it started a genre of fiction and because it was named on the Modern Library's Hundred Greatest Novels of the Twentieth Century List (which is an interesting list that I don't always agree with). The Postman Always Rings Twice turned out excellent and may well have earned its place on that list.<br />The Postman Always Rings Twice is a hard-hitting, gritty novel of a man and woman who conspire to kill her husband and who end up caught in their own web of deceit. The novel is short. The raw sexual power and violence must have been a shocker for this book's time. The prose is surprisingly clean. It is fast-paced and short. It comes out punching and finishes you off quickly.	2001-08-13
US	47226334	R3TPSLX22NN58W	0152012001	275065800	A Hidden Magic	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fun Read	This is the first book I've read by Vivian Vande Velde, and I'm sure I will return to her. A Hidden Magic by her was utterly delightful. It is a rich parody of the fantasy genre. The plot follows Jennifer. She is a princess, but certainly not the usual type. Her country is so poor that she is basically a peasant. One day the most handsome prince ever comes through her country looking for a wife. They're going to fall in love, right? He is rich and handsome, but he is also arrogent and dumb. Together one day, the prince and Jennifer wander into the magical forest of her country. The prince, being his usual brilliant self, falls under a spell of the evil sorceress Malveenya. Jennifer is forced to try to save the prince. She eventually happens upon Norman, a sorcerer. He's young and not overly powerful, but he is smart and a friend. Together, Jennifer and Norman set out to confront Malveenya and save the prince.<br />A Hidden Magic is a pretty exciting story. The greatest thing about the book though is its humor. Vande Velde uses a lot of word-play which works very well. The scene with the dragon is the best in the book. A Hidden Magic is a very entertaining novel. Other books in this vein are the Dealing With Dragons series by Patricia Wrede, of course the Harry Potter books, Smith of Wooten Major and Farmer Giles of Ham by J.R.R. Tolkien, The Princess Bride by William Goldman (though this one is for older readers), and also everything by Lloyd Alexander.	2001-08-10
US	47226334	R1O8IBL8T6N76	0152012001	275065800	A Hidden Magic	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Fun Read	This is the first book I've read by Vivian Vande Velde, and I'm sure I will return to her. A Hidden Magic by her was utterly delightful. It is a rich parody of the fantasy genre. The plot follows Jennifer. She is a princess, but certainly not the usual type. Her country is so poor that she is basically a peasant. One day the most handsome prince ever comes through her country looking for a wife. They're going to fall in love, right? He is rich and handsome, but he is also arrogent and dumb. Together one day, the prince and Jennifer wander into the magical forest of her country. The prince, being his usual brilliant self, falls under a spell of the evil sorceress Malveenya. Jennifer is forced to try to save the prince. She eventually happens upon Norman, a sorcerer. He's young and not overly powerful, but he is smart and a friend. Together, Jennifer and Norman set out to confront Malveenya and save the prince.<br />A Hidden Magic is a pretty exciting story. The greatest thing about the book though is its humor. Vande Velde uses a lot of word-play which works very well. The scene with the dragon is the best in the book. A Hidden Magic is a very entertaining novel. Other books in this vein are the Dealing With Dragons series by Patricia Wrede, of course the Harry Potter books, Smith of Wooten Major and Farmer Giles of Ham by J.R.R. Tolkien, The Princess Bride by William Goldman (though this one is for older readers), and also everything by Lloyd Alexander.	2001-08-10
US	47226334	R2S2R2EE8TQQAN	0152012001	275065800	A Hidden Magic	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fun Read	This is the first book I've read by Vivian Vande Velde, and I'm sure I will return to her. A Hidden Magic by her was utterly delightful. It is a rich parody of the fantasy genre. The plot follows Jennifer. She is a princess, but certainly not the usual type. Her country is so poor that she is basically a peasant. One day the most handsome prince ever comes through her country looking for a wife. They're going to fall in love, right? He is rich and handsome, but he is also arrogent and dumb. Together one day, the prince and Jennifer wander into the magical forest of her country. The prince, being his usual brilliant self, falls under a spell of the evil sorceress Malveenya. Jennifer is forced to try to save the prince. She eventually happens upon Norman, a sorcerer. He's young and not overly powerful, but he is smart and a friend. Together, Jennifer and Norman set out to confront Malveenya and save the prince.<br />A Hidden Magic is a pretty exciting story. The greatest thing about the book though is its humor. Vande Velde uses a lot of word-play which works very well. The scene with the dragon is the best in the book. A Hidden Magic is a very entertaining novel. Other books in this vein are the Dealing With Dragons series by Patricia Wrede, of course the Harry Potter books, Smith of Wooten Major and Farmer Giles of Ham by J.R.R. Tolkien, The Princess Bride by William Goldman (though this one is for older readers), and also everything by Lloyd Alexander.	2001-08-10
US	47226334	R2V1DWDM3PVOWL	0140154418	856627263	All the Little Live Things (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	One of the Finest	Every once in a while you happen upon a novel where you know you'll never forget the experience of reading those words. You know you'll never forget the characters. You know you'll never forget the lessons it taught you. You know that no matter how many books you read in your life, there won't be more than a handful to come close to it. All the Little Living Things is certainly one of those few.<br />All the Little Living Things is one of the finest novels I have ever read. I will not go into the plot because other reviewers have done so very well (read Paul McGrath's review; it's far better than mine), but I will say that it is immensely readable. Everything that happens in the novel happens because of the character's actions or thoughts. Nothing is contrived. Reading the story truly is a physical, not just a mental exercise, and you are exausted after finishing the novel. The prose is also superb. This is the third novel I've read by Wallace Stegner, and I don't know how many pages I have written down of quotes from the novels that I want to remember. The greatest thing about this novel is most definitely the characters, though. Joe Allston, who is also the main character of The Spectator Bird, is singularly the most complex character I've read in literature. You know everything about him, every aspect of his character. The supporting characters are superb too. They take on many dimensions. This novel thrives on the insights Joe gains from just being around these people. It is amazing to see Joe change: to see him learn about his relationship with people of a younger genteration, to see him learn that he can't escape life, and to see beauty in all aspects of life. It is amazing to learn with Joe.<br />All the Little Living Things really is a marvelous novel. I really cannot express how great it is. It is a masterpiece of twentieth century American literature, and I think that Wallace Stegner is without a doubt the greatest American novelist yet.	2001-08-08
US	47226334	R7682DE69PQSN	0613077849	963807643	The First Two Lives of Lukas-Kasha	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Classic by Lloyd Alexander	This is the eleventh or twelfth novel I've read by Alexander, and every one of them has truly deserved a five star rating. I know Alexander has built a strong legion of fans, but he should still be read more often. Few writers (especially in childrens' and young adult literature) give their readers more think about, and even fewer do so while entertaining as well as Alexander does.<br />The First Two Lives of Lukas-Kasha is one of Alexander's best. It is told with humor and is exciting. The protagonist is Lukas-Kasha who is the town rascal in a fifteenth-century European town. He runs across a magician who sends him into another life. He is Kasha, King of Abadan. He wants to continue his old rascally way, only with a lot more resources and freedom, but his position forces him to become involved in the country's affairs. It is in a disgraceful war, and the real power in the country lies with the Grand Vizier who is a tyrant. When Kasha is stripped of his position and the Grand Vizier becomes &quot;king,&quot; the country is in severe danger, and Kasha (along with friends) must try to save the country and gain back power.<br />All of Kasha's experiences serve to give him insight into his old life. Kasha begins to grow up. He learns lessons about growth, responsibility, and personal values. He is profoundly changed by his experiences. Overall, The First Two Lives of Lukas-Kasha is excellent, and it wil serve well as a jumping point into some of Alexander's even better works like (his masterpiece) the Westmark Trilogy, (of course) the Prydain Chronicles, and The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian.	2001-08-05
US	47226334	R23BMAUOORBP2L	0027110303	406487710	Forever . . .	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Important, But Not Necessarily Good	In Amazon.com's review, it is pointed out that with Forever Judy Blume was the first author to write candidly about sex for a teen readership, and she has defended that right ever since. I do agree with her. Of course sex is a valid topic since (whether your active or not) it is all around you. Unfortunately, even though Forever was the first book to write about sex for teens, it isn't overly well written, and it really misses its point.<br />Katherine is the main character in the book. It's written from her point of view, and it is about the year-long relationship her senior year with Michael. Throughout the year, the two fall in love, she loses her virginity, and they vow to be together &quot;forever.&quot; That is, until she spends time around another guy and begins to wonder about &quot;forever&quot; with Michael. At that point in the story, it seems like Blume had actually reached a point where the characters (and the reader) could gain some type of insight. Maybe Katherine would realize that she was too immature for that relationship and too immature to face the consequences that go with a relationship? But Blume kills her one moment when Katherine goes on about not regreting anything she had done. Katherine had missed the point, as had Blume. Some of the characterizations in the novel were less than perfect, too. For instance, Michael is really suppossed to be in love with Katherine. The reader is told that but never sees it. All you ever see Michael doing is trying to have sex with Katherine. You never feel that he really cares for her, and that makes it even more ludicrous when Katherine doesn't regret anything.<br />I'm giving Forever three stars on its importance to young adult literature. But really, as a work of art, it certainly deserves no more than two.	2001-08-03
US	47226334	R25LMCJUE0T5SO	0385334591	967459721	If Beale Street Could Talk	Books	5	9	9	N	N	It's All About the Love	Langston Hughes wrote, &quot;Folks, I'm telling you/Living is hard/Birthing is mean/So get yourselves/a little loving/in between.&quot; Hughes's poem kind of captures If Beale Street Could Talk.<br />The novel is told by Tish, a nineteen-year-old African American in Harlem in the 1970's. She is deeply in love with Fonny and is pregnant by him, but just about everything has gone wrong for the couple. Fonny is in jail because he has been falsely accussed of rape because he is black. Fonny, Tish, and Tish's family (plus Fonny's father) all love each other, and the family rallies behind Fonny to get him free. They must steal to raise money and even go on a trip to Puerto Rico to confront the woman accussing Fonny.<br />The characterizations in the novel are marvelous, and the storytelling is superb. Baldwin tells If Beale Street Could Talk in the most beautiful prose. It is almost musical. I also love his many allusions to music. If Beale Street Could Talk is an outstanding novel which can stand with almost any of the twentieth century. It can really be an important novel for teaching young adults about racism and the power of love between a family. If Beale Street Could Talk is a true classic.	2001-08-03
US	47226334	R1GW41KZD7XQC2	0393048209	932199654	Americans' Favorite Poems	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Illustrates What Poetry is Really About	Americans' Favorite Poems is an amazing book. It is the result of the &quot;favorite poem project&quot; held across the nation. The poems in the collection are real Americans' favorites along with their own comments on why they chose that poem as their favorite. The compilation is great for the obvious. The poems selected come from everywhere (many different cultures and different styles of poetry are present), and they are outstanding. The thing that sets Americans' Favorite Poems apart from other collections is the commentary from regular people. The comments are at turns hilarious and moving. They are always profound. They show the real greatness of good poetry: it has the ability to relate to a person's life experiences and really touch that person. <br />I must say that my favorite selection in the book was &quot;I May, I Might, I Must&quot; by Marianne Moore mainly because of the reason behind its selection. The only complaint (it isn't much of one) I have about the book is that my favorite &quot;I Thank You God for Most This Amazing&quot; by ee cummings didn't make it, but hopefully, there will someday be a Americans' Favorite Poems Volume II, and it will.	2001-07-31
US	47226334	R1PD45HOC3XYHR	0394756975	601875835	A Single Pebble	Books	3	15	29	N	N	A Surprise	First of all, I was surprised to see this title on lists of recommended reading for high school students. I had read Hersey's A Bell for Adano and loved it; so I thought A Single Pebble would be about as good as it was. I didn't enjoy it nearly as much. The novel is pretty good. It is about an engineer who is traveling down the Yangtze River looking for a place to build a dam. Along the way, the engineer faces a cultural shock especially when he discovers the people on the boat he is traveling on do not want a dam to be built. They don't want their lives to change. The author did a nice job conveying the clash of cultures and the need to try to bridge the gap between cultures. I think the problem I had with the novel was its style, and the fact that it isn't as good as A Bell for Adano. The prose the author uses consists of many simple sentences. Hersey was obviously influenced by Hemingway even though the tone was a little lighter than Hemingway's is. Unfortunately for me, I'm not a big fan of Hemingway's style; so the novel came across as pretty boring. The book isn't as good as A Bell for Adano. A Bell for Adano is also very much about a clash of cultures as it is set in Italy during World War II after the Americans' takeover. It explores the clash of cultures better, and it is a much better read. Overall, A Single Pebble is a pretty good novel, just not a great one.	2001-07-31
US	47226334	RZEF49I1YFKRD	0316283258	213583073	The Tulip Touch	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Thought Provoking	To be honest, I didn't expect much from the book, and I still don't know why I ever read it. I had read Flour Babies by Anne Fine, and I didn't like it. I thought it was too didactic, and I thought the humor was far less than funny. The Tulip Touch didn't share any of the former's problems. It is simply an amazing book that really made me think about some of the friendships I had in high school (I just graduated).<br />The plot follows Natalie who is the best friend of Tulip. Tulip comes from a totally unloving and abusive family and is a trouble-maker. Gradually, Tulip's behavior begins to influence Natalie. Natalie watches herself being dragged lower and lower by Tulip. Finally, she feels she must break away. But, can she? Has Tulip been that bad of a friend. Also, should or could she have been helping Tulip?<br />The Tulip Touch is really a fascinating book. It is entertaining, but it also makes you think. It raises quite a few ethical concerns for our society, and it examines a friendship (though very off-beat one) thouroughly. The Tulip Touch really should be required reading because their are many young adults out their with friends like Tulip and there are also a lot of people who will hopefully not become parents like Tulip's.	2001-07-27
US	47226334	R1YTHZ98M9F0B7	0440997313	798089094	Westmark (The Westmark Trilogy)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Vastly Underrated	It is so difficult trying to write a review on Westmark because I love the book so much. It is also hard because the book encompasses so much, both in its plot and in its commentary on life.<br />The plot follows Theo who is a printer's assistant. He is happy with his life except for the government he lives under. It is run from behind the throne by a tyrant, Cabbarus. One day the printing shop is attacked by soldiers trying to enforce censorship laws. In self-defence, Theo almost kills a man, and he is forced to flee as a fugitive. On his travels, he falls in with a group of scoundrels: Las Bombas (a real con man), Musket (Los Bombas's dwarf assistant), and Mickle (a brilliant girl from the streets). Mickle and Theo fall in love, but Theo moves on to fall in with a group of revolutionaries lead by Florian. In one of the climaxes (Alexander never settles for just one), Theo must fight to save his love and his country.<br />Alexander pumps his fascinating and complex plot with commentary on humanity. For Theo, every situation is filled with moral complexities. He is forced to examine his capacity for violence after the episode at the printing shop. Is he really a good person if he can harm another person? His feelings during battles are even examined. He also must try to decide what is worth commiting acts of violence for. Is love? Is freedom? Alexander's use of humor is also very effective as elements of farce are compared with the acts of violence. Every character (even Cabbarus) is multi-dimensional. <br />Westmark is a great beginning to the series. The plot is magnificent, plus it has so much depth. The series draws on Alexander's own war experiences, and it almost plays like a Billy Wilder-written examination of war and life. The Westmark Trilogy is a truly brilliant young adult series. It really can stand up along other war novels like All Along the Western Front and The Red Badge of Courage.	2001-07-26
US	47226334	R2DR3DD1KBU2WG	9993102598	964991291	The Kestrel	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The Best in Young Adult Fiction	In the first book of the Westmark Trilogy, Theo asks, &quot;Even if the cause (of war) is good, what does it do to the people who stand against it? And the people who follow it?&quot; The answer to those questions is The Kestrel. Using a panorama of characters, Alexander shows war from all perspectives: from the leaders,' from the bystanders,' and from the soldiers.' Alexander draws on his own experiences of World War II to give the reader (of any age) insight into the moral complexities of war.<br />The main character is once again Theo. When Westmark is attacked by neighboring Regia, Theo is forced with a dilemma. Should he serve his love (Mickle) or should he serve his country? Eventually, Theo is compelled to join fighting along with Florian's forces because of a memory of his cowardice at the battle of Nierkeeping in &quot;Westmark.&quot; Fighting a guerrilla-style war under the command of Justin, Theo begins to be baptised by fire. He sees comrade after comrade killed. He becomes filled with hatred for the enemy army. Eventually, he is given command and becomes Colonel Kestrel, a semblance of Theo who commits unspeakable acts in the name of war.<br />Alexander studies the morals of war through his characters. The reader is forced to examine psychological aspects of war in Theo. War is also shown through a leader's eyes with the examinations of Mickle, Theo, Justin, and Florian. The devastating effect of war on the countryside is shown from following Sparrow and Weasel.<br />The Kestrel is a brilliant continuation of the series. The plot is magnificent, and it has so much depth. The characterizations are excellent, and the issues studied are compelling. The Westmark Trilogy is a great piece of young adult literature. I've read some of the great war novels like All Quiet on the Western Front and The Red Badge of Courage, but the trilogy is better written and with more depth. Everyone really should read these excellent novels.	2001-07-26
US	47226334	R1Y4SXOOF4OBNB	0440905486	799814444	The Beggar Queen (The Westmark Trilogy)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The Billy Wilder of Children's Literature	The Beggar Queen is a marvelous conclusion to one of the best and most overlooked series of young adult literature. <br />In The Beggar Queen, Cabbarus holds a coup in Marianstat, and he takes over the country. Luckily, Mickle, Theo, and Florian escape into hiding, and they have to try to gain their country back and put a democracy in place. Theo and Mickle are forced to build a resistance movement in the city. Theo is once again forced to resume his role of Colonel Kestrel and fight his personal demons. The people of the city are forced to undergo a baptism of fire to gain their freedom.<br />In The Beggar Queen, Alexander once again uses accessible characters, romance, and an exciting (and twisting) plot to throw light on some difficult issues such as war and terrorism. Theo has to grapple with himself. He is a leader, and how many of the lives his people should be on his head? Are they dying because of flaws in his own character? The final book also serves to make the trilogy into a Billy Wilderesque study of life during war. The books present the world in an absolute mess. The novels are at times grim. Alexander doesn't spare lives. The country in war presents people (even good guys) consumed by hate. Yet through all of the mess, the love found in good people finds a way to survive.<br />The Beggar Queen and the rest of the Westmark Trilogy cannot be overrated. The three novels teach lessons and go places where no other young adult novel has ever gone. They are landmarks of young adult publishing, and even of literature in general. Hopefully, the trilogy will one day gain a larger readership and gain the respect that it truly deserves.	2001-07-26
US	47226334	RIO8FN90WNRS2	1573226122	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Brilliant 20th Century Classic	It is impossible to encompass Lord of the Flies into a short review. Golding just says too much on too many different levels. The book is simply brilliant. First off, Lord of the Flies is an adventure story. A few British schoolboys are deserted on an island and must depend on themselves to survive to be rescued. The story is based on an earlier British classic, The Coral Island by R.M. Ballantyne. The simple adventure story is used to comment on humanity. Golding, much like Joseph Condrad, shows how civilation keeps humanity from lapsing into savagery. He presents the schoolboys' loss of innocence. Lord of the Flies is also a political treatise much like Animal Farm. Ralph represents a democracy, Jack is communism, and Piggy is the voice of wisdom which both tends to ignore. He traces political troubles back to individuals.<br />Many people think of William Golding as too pessimistic about human nature. I do not think Golding was as pessimistic as many think. William Golding was unfortunate to see human at its worst during World War II, and I think he feared lapses. Lord of the Flies is his warning. His attempt to help man stay on the right course. Whether or not a person agrees to this and feels Golding was too cynical, it is impossible to not think of Lord of the Flies as one of the best-written books of the century. Golding encompasses so much into an simple, powerful narrative. The prose and images are beautiful even when grim. Lord of the Flies is certainly one of the great novels of literature.	2001-07-19
US	47226334	R26KU188V3JDPE	0140139400	391244810	The Spectator Bird (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Profound and Moving	I had to read another book by Wallace Stegner after reading Angle of Repose. I didn't think this would have a chance of measuring up to Angle of Repose, and it didn't. That's not a put-down though because that just means it is around number two on my all-time favorite list. One reason I thought I would have trouble with The Spectator Bird is that it is about aging and about a long marital relationship, and I'm eighteen. I was afraid that I wouldn't be able to relate to its themes. I was very wrong. Even though I haven't lived seventy years and do not know many of the feelings Joe Alston had, I was able to learn from the novel. The Spectator Bird gave me many insights into the live of my grandparents and even my parents. I have seen my family members grapple with the questions about their own lives that Joe fought with in The Spectator Bird. I have also witnessed relationships like that between Joe and Ruth. The book has helped me to see some of what their existance is like and also what mine will look like in the future. The Spectator Bird is just an amazing book. Nobody writes as well as Stegner. I don't know how many lines of his prose I have written down so that I can remember them. The characters are also so multi-dimensional. It seems like you know them (and the author) so well. The Spectator Bird is just a beautiful and satisfying read which I plan to revisit in the future and which I plan to recommend to any intelligent readers. Stegner needs to be read more often.	2001-07-16
US	47226334	R3PQV0NNZHMFGT	0440508649	11758110	Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot: And Other Observations	Books	4	9	20	N	N	Refreshing and Hilarious	I'm a Democrat who lives in Texas; so I don't get to see very much of the liberal press I hear so much about on the &quot;fair and balanced&quot; Fox &quot;News&quot; Channel. Books like Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot are really refreshing. It makes me think that (at least outside of Texas) there might be some other people who actually possess the ability to think. As to the quality of the book, it is very good though I do think there are some flaws. It is very funny. My favorite parts were the New York Times book review, everything about Phil Graham (remember, I'm from Texas), and the time Franken stumped Reagan on a question. I did think that the story &quot;Operation Chickenhawk&quot; fell kind of flat, and I thought some of Franken's religious opinions detracted from the book. Overall, the book was fabulous. I really enjoyed seeing Limbaugh and Gingrich (and others) get called on some of the outright untruths they've spouted throughout the years.	2001-07-13
US	47226334	R2N33P9RM0AJV8	0451523601	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Signet Classics)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A Fun Hardy Read? It Exists	I've always condidered myself to be sort of an optimist; so it is really odd that I've always really loved Thomas Hardy's books. I count Tess of the D'Urbervilles and Jude the Obscure among my very favorites, and whether or not it is my favorite, I think that The Mayor of Casterbridge is marvelously written. Still though, reading all of that fatalism and cynicism can be a little much. It was really nice to pick up this novel and not read so many grim scenes.<br />Far From the Madding Crowd is a pretty simple love story driven by the characters. First, there is Bathsheba Everdeen. She's vain, naive, and she makes the stupidest decisions possible. Yet, you still like her. Then there are the three guys who all want her: Troy who's like the bad guy straight out of a Raphael Sabatini novel, Boldwood who's an old lunatic farmer, and Gabriel Oak who is a simple farmer and is basically perfect. The reader sees what should happen in the first chapter, and it takes Bathsheeba the whole book to see it. The characters really make the book. The reader really has strong feelings about them, and Hardy puts them in situations where you just don't know what they're going to do. The atmosphere that Hardy creates is (as is in all of Hardy's novel) amazing and totally original. I don't think any other author (except Wallace Stegner in America) has ever evoked a sense of place as well as Hardy does. Overall, Far from the Madding Crowd is a great novel. I probably don't like it quite as well as some of his others, but I still do think it deserved five stars.	2001-07-13
US	47226334	R3LPTJG7DBV9ZO	1559211407	43936206	84, Charing Cross Road	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Real Humanity	84, Charing Cross Road should be the most boring book in English literature. All it is is a small collection of short, simply written letters between a small group of ordinary people. Furthermore, most of the letters are just book orders or thank you notes. Everything seems to be insignificant. But nothing here is. 84, Charing Cross Road captures real life and real people. The letters are filled with all types of emotions. There is humor (both droll and outrageous). The people all show an intense love of literature. Primarily in the book, the people of 84, Charing Cross Road emit compassion for other people. 84, Charing Cross Road is all about how a small group of people (primarily Helen Hanff and Frank Doel) built strong friendships and really enriched each others lives. 84, Charing Cross Road is a total joy to read, and I am sure I will revisit the pages many more times. And yes, I will (if I ever go to England) visit the bookshop at 84 Charing Cross Road and make a fool of myself by kissing it.	2001-07-10
US	47226334	R3AO5XWKIHV6XC	0374302782	718186280	Amos & Boris	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Profound Story of Friendship	I love William Steig's work, and this is one of his best picture books. Steig always fills his books with love and family and friendship and with a love of life. Rarely in any type of literature will you find a book about friendship better than this one. The story of &quot;Amos and Boris&quot; is about a mouse and a whale. When the mouse has an accident in his sailing ship, he is saved by the whale. The two strike up an immediate and deep friendship which will continue though the two are forced to be worlds apart. &quot;Amos and Boris&quot; is a remarkable book for the meaningful lessons it teaches. It is also remarkable for the beautiful prose, the humor, and for the marvelous pictures by Steig. &quot;Amos and Boris&quot; is truly a perfect picture book for children and for adults.	2001-07-07
US	47226334	R1AAD096YHUR4D	0789430746	562056295	Young Person's Guide to Philosophy	Books	5	16	16	N	N	How'd They Do It?	I just wonder what the publisher thought when the idea of an overview of philosophy for young people was first proposed. Luckily, they must not have been paying much attention because this extraordinary book is in print. It's really amazing that they could pull this book off. How do you explain what the great thinkers throughout history have thought to teenagers and younger? Somehow, Jeremy Weate was able to break down philosophies to their most basic forms. Weate was also aided by his sense of humor and by the pictures of Peter Layman which can help keep interest from swaying. This really is a very valuable resource. This book is supposed to be directed toward readers of the ages 4-8, but I think it is better for a little older audience. I was able use it very effectively in some college English courses I took in high school. A Young Person's Guide to Philosophy is really excellent. It is really an interesting read and can be very useful.	2001-07-03
US	47226334	R2H925DB7OGFGQ	0399227350	304590399	The War of Jenkins' Ear	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Really Thought Provoking	The War of Jenkins' Ear is one of the most amazing novels I have ever read. This novel is considered young adult fiction, but the themes expressed here are for people of any age. The plot focuses on Toby. Toby attends a boarding school in England in the 1950's which he detests. But one year, everything changes because of a new boy in school, Christopher. Christopher is certainly different from the other boys at school, and he soon reveals to Toby that he has visions which tell him that he is the second coming of Jesus. Toby is picked as his first deciple. <br />Michael Morpurgo uses his unique premise perfectly to comment on life on different levels. First off, he captures the life around the boarding school extremely well. The element of class warfare between the oiks (village children) and the toffs (boarding school children) is present. Morpurgo also captures the intensity of the relationships between the students and between the students and their teachers at the isolated school. The element of first love is also introduced, and the characters in the novel are all fully developed. Morpurgo is most successful at studying the nature of faith, though. He presents how difficult it is to believe in the face of convention, and he also shows the extraordinary powers that faith in something can bring. The novel is also very successful at commenting on what peoples' lives around the Jesus Christ must have been like.<br />The War of Jenkins' Ear is a fascinating novel. Everything about it makes you think. Even the title can have a symbolic meaning. I think The War of Jenkins' Ear should easily go down as one of the great young adult reads of the century.	2001-06-30
US	47226334	R24LLZZ8A39YPK	0141309806	795354596	Gypsy Rizka	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Great from Alexander	Lloyd Alexander is probably the greatest children's author living today. Gypsy Rizka is another great book by the master. Alexander has always brought strong heroines to children's lit. Rizka is yet another great to add to the list: Eilonwy from The Prydain Chronicles, Mickle from the Westmark Trilogy, Isabel from The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian, and Vesper Holly from her own books (there are also a few more which I haven't gotten to yet). This novel, besides its excellent characters, has a lot of humor. Alexander displays his unbelieveable imagination with the unusual methods Rizka utilizes to get out of trouble. Nobody mixes high adventure with humor as well as Alexander. The prose in this novel is unbelievably polished also. Gypsy Rizka doesn't have as much depth as some of Alexander's other novels, but there are not very many childrens books that can entertain like this one can. Overall, Gypsy Rizka is an amazing novel.	2001-06-29
US	47226334	R1UO6LTN23QZ8S	0374324425	806166302	The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship: A Russian Tale	Books	5	7	7	N	N	My Favorite Picture Book	The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship by Arthur Ransome with illustrations by Uri Shulevitz is easily my favorite picture book. Everything is perfect about the book. First of all the pictures are marvelous. All of Shulevitz's books have good pictures, but this might be his best. The pictures jump off the page with their color and with the humor portrayed in them. The story is, of course, the best part of the book. The story is hilarious with marvelously interesting characters. It also has some good morals like &quot;God loves simple folk.&quot; I work in a library, and adults and kids all love this book. I have also seen the book performed for children, and it proved to be excellent for reading aloud. The Fool of the World and the Flying Ship is an amazing picture book and deseves is Caldecott Medal and its classic status.	2001-06-29
US	47226334	RDUY5AW75TPFT	0446525537	721431789	A Walk to Remember	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I Can't Believe How Much I Liked It	First of all, A Walk to Remember isn't my usual type of read. I usually like to read classics. Plus, I'm a guy; so I like mysteries and adventures every so often. But, for some reason, the review of the book in Booklist magazine really interested me in the book, and I gave it a shot. I loved it. At first, I thought the writing seemed a bit juvenile to me, &quot;if you know what i mean.&quot; I also thought that the characters seemed a bit unrealistic. But after about seventy pages (which doesn't take long), I was genuinely interested in the characters and what happenned to them. Also, unlike Landon, I was already in love with Jamie. As the book progressed, I found myself liking it even more until the satisfying, though sad, ending. A Walk to Remember may not be &quot;great&quot; literature. It probably won't be around in fifty years. But, man, is it a good read. Any true romantic (which I guess I am too) would love it.	2001-06-29
US	47226334	R2KPHIM0H0O79I	0062051571	943364486	Pete's a Pizza	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Still Going at Ninety	When he published this in 1998, William Steig was over ninety. He is still the master of children's books. Pete's a Pizza does just what all of Steig's beautiful books do. It presents a moral (without being didactic) that emphasizes the joys of life. It also portrays Steig's original artwork. Pete's a Pizza has a simple story. Pete is in a bad mood. His loving parents decide to cheer him up by pretending he's a pizza. Children will love the comical story and the colorful pictures, and hopefully, readers will someday experience Steig's other marvelous books like Dominic, Abel's Island, The Real Thief, etc.	2001-06-15
US	47226334	R2F7XEIXAQ3CAQ	0689836015	835820403	Silent To The Bone	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Simply Marvelous	Silent to the Bone is an amazing children's book. Only E.L. Konigsburg could have written it because almost no other author has such an understanding of young people. No other author could have given the reader such insight to the character's lives. Silent to the Bone is mostly about these insights. The plot follows Connor and Branwell, two thirteen-year-olds. Branwell has been accused of shaking and dropping the baby, but has become mute after whatever it was that happenned. Connor doesn't think that Branwell committed the crime; so he takes it upon himself to get Branwell to speak. To do this, though, means Connor (with his sister's help) must begin to peal back the layers of Branwell's life. He must learn exactly why Branwell became silent. He must learn about the tension and stress in the family's like (all the while, learning about his own family). Connor must try to piece together what happened at Branwell's home the months preceeding the accident as well as the day of the accident. The end result is almost a detective novel, but one with psychological insights. Silent to the Bone is a novel which will make a person think. Some of the themes may be too mature for younger readers, but young adults and older readers will gain from this novel and will certainly be fascinated and entertained by it.<br />*Also, I would like to warn anyone who's not read the book to not read the &quot;eleven-year-old from New York&quot;'s (April 10, 2001) review. It gives away all of the ending to this very suspenceful story.	2001-06-15
US	47226334	R260EAJIIGYFL5	0750912073	714419968	The Well at the World's End (Pocket Classics Series)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Too Bad Few People Read It	I've been interested in the history of fantasy for a while, and I was definately intrigued when I happened upon this title. I immediately ordered it and read it. The Well at the World's End is marvelous. Every once in a while I start wanting to read a romance, and this is a good romance. The story is pretty original and was very different for its time. The story follows Ralph as he searches for the WELL AT THE WORLD'S END. He has enemies and intrigued galor to fight through. Along the way, there is also a love story, too. <br />The Well at the World's End is a good read even for modern readers. It is an excellent example of &quot;romance.&quot; It is also good just as a curiosity read. Fans of Tolkien, Lewis, and Eliot should visit William Morris's writings. Personally, my favorite thing about the book was the archaic prose. For the first twenty pages I thought it would be bothersome. After that, I was used to it and the book flowed nicely. It is sad that few people read William Morris today.	2001-06-13
US	47226334	R167X7I0OZY8CE	020109147X	515190968	Caps for Sale: A Tale of a Peddler, Some Monkeys and Their Monkey Business	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Deserves Its Classic Status	Caps for Sale by Esphyr Slobodkina is a marvelous children's book. It's hard to find one better today. The pictures, though simple, are great. Their brilliant colors and the size of objects in proportion to each other (like the beginning picture where the peddler is taller than the houses) make each picture fascinating for both adults and children. The story is also well written. It is original and very funny. The words are also very rhythmic which makes this book even more fascinating for children and helps the story to flow. Caps for Sale is a true classic. It has already been around for over sixty years, and another sixty should be an easy reach for this delightful book.	2001-06-08
US	47226334	R1DNI9M1LS6RLL	0441003346	739800863	Winter Rose	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Solid Fantasy	This was the first novel that I've read by Patricia McKillip. I will certainly be returning to her. Winter Rose is a thrilling and complex fantasy told in an amazingly original and fresh style. The story of Rois fighting her way through a frozen world she doesn't really understand is captivating. The complex relationships between the well developed characters are fascinating. I most enjoyed McKillip's poetic prose style. Winter Rose is a quick, thought provoking, and satisfying read, and I do hope McKillip's other works are as good.	2001-05-31
US	47226334	RV5SUWR321IU5	0316517305	488603683	Ben and Me: An Astonishing Life of Benjamin Franklin by His Good Mouse Amos	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Learn While Laughing	Ben and Me is a delightful biography of Benjamin Franklin written by Robert Lawson. The novel is marvelous for children. It is educational. It teaches a lot about the founding of the country and mainly about one of the men who made it possible. Ben and Me is fabulously entertaining. Amos's own adventures are thrilling, and his stories about Ben are hilarious. Any child or adult with a sense of humor will laugh at this book. Anyone who reads this book will learn while laughing. Robert Lawson was the author and illustrator of many great children's books, but Ben and Me was probably the best, and it will be around for many years to come.	2001-05-31
US	47226334	R2FZJMCBJN1EWO	1853262803	292919072	Napoleon of Notting Hill (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	One of the 20th Century's Overlooked Classics	It really amazes me that G.K. Chesterton isn't read much today, and it really bothers me when I see a list of the &quot;classics&quot; of the 20th century because every list cantains a multitude of works inferior to this novel. <br />The Napoleon of Notting Hill is set in the future (though the novel isn't futuristic, if that makes any sense at all) in a world where democracy has ceased and human emotion has almost ceased. That is, until a man with a sense of humore is randomly picked to be king. He decides (as a joke) to revive the patriotism and fashions of the 1700's in England. The country goes along with it and takes it all as a joke except for Adam Wayne, the provost of Notting Hill. He begins a war within the city which revives life in the nation.<br />The Napoleon of Notting Hill is told in an exuberant and comical style. You do laugh out loud at some of the situations and wit portrayed by Chesterton's pen. There is a lot of depth to the book. The king, Auberon Quinn, is symbolic of &quot;laughter,&quot; and Adam Wayne is symbolic of &quot;love.&quot; Chesterton uses them for his commentary on how the common man should live life. Plus, there is so much more that Chesterton comments on within these few pages which I couldn't begin to go into here.<br />The Napoleon of Notting Hill is an amazing novel. Any serious student of literature should read it. The Napoleon of Notting Hill is also just a fun story. Hopefully, people will once again begin to read G.K. Chesterton, and The Napoleon of Notting Hill will gain the respect that it deserves.	2001-05-23
US	47226334	R2H7A8EXZCKJKF	0486270874	94879300	A Dog of Flanders: Unabridged; In Easy-to-Read Type (Dover Children's Thrift Classics)	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Actually, It's Pretty Good	I read A Dog of Flanders by Ouida mainly out of curiosity. I wanted to read the first &quot;boy and his dog&quot; book written for children. I didn't expect much, and I was surprised when I began to enjoy the story late in the book. <br />The story is of a peasant boy, Nello, and his dog, Patrasche. The boy just wants to be an artist and see a painting by Rubens. The dog (who has very human feelings) just wants to help the boy reach his goal. The two face absolutely every hardship possible in their attempts.<br />To enjoy this story, you have to take it in the context of the time it was written. The book is really, really sentimental. Every play for emotion possible is made by the author. Early in the book, it even says (in a literal tone) that Nello and his grandfather would just lay down and die if anything ever happened to the dog. Patrasche was their &quot;alpha and omega.&quot; All of the sentimentality really bothered me at the beginning. I'm used to modern writing and didn't take the overplay of emotion well. I had to take into account, though, that Ouida wrote in the romantic tradition, when this type of writing was common, especially in children's books. Looking at A Dog of Flanders as an example from the time period helped me to enjoy the novel even through its oversentimentality. Overall, A Dog of Flanders is a pretty decent read. Most children of today wouldn't love it. A Dog of Flanders is definately a worthy read as a curiosity piece, though.	2001-05-11
US	47226334	R1EW6TL0OX1BJW	0688062164	145038532	The Whipping Boy	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wonderful Tale of Friendship	The Whipping Boy by Sid Fleischman is a wonderful book which certainly deserved its Newbery Medal in 1987. The Whipping Boy is an adventure story. Its is set around the 1700's. The main characters are Jemmy, the royal whipping boy who is very street-wise, and Prince Brat, the spoiled heir to the throne. It starts when Prince Brat runs away from home, and Jemmy (even hating him) goes along. The two do not have very much in common. Jemmy is intelligent, has common sense, and has no breaks. Prince Brat is ignorant, is spoiled, and is heir to the kingdom. The two do have their adventures in common, though. They face enemies like the hilarious Hold-Your-Nose Billy and Cutwater, and they have to overcome personal short-comings. Through their experiences, the two learn a few things about themselves and their own characters, and they learn a lot about friendship. The Whipping Boy is a fabulous adventure which is worth reading. There is also a little bit within the story very much worth reading. The Whipping Boy is a great read for children and adults, and it will go down as a classic.	2001-05-10
US	47226334	RXE25FWGPZIT7	0192810898	45057575	Songs of Innocence and Experience: Shewing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul, 1789-1794 (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Great Edition of Blake	I was recently lucky to see the Gutenburg to Gone With the Wind Exhibit in Austin, Texas recently. At that marvelous exhibit I got to see one of Blake's original editions of Songs of Innocence. After that, I (of course) had to find a copy with the amazing poems and the amazing artwork by Blake. This edition satisfied both criteria well. First of all, the poems are brilliant. Everybody has read such works as &quot;Little Boy Lost,&quot; &quot;Little Boy Found,&quot; &quot;The Shepherd,&quot; &quot;The Lamb,&quot; and &quot;The Tyger.&quot; These poems are just as good as they are made out to be. Each poem is excrutiatingly simple (in the style of children's verse), and each has such depth. The artwork is all in this edition, too, and it is fabulous. The colors are exactly like those of Blake's. I really think that the poems should never be read without Blake's engravings. This is a marvelous book for poetry lovers to own. It is high quality and affordable. Any fan of Blake's should own this book.	2001-05-09
US	47226334	R29UVPY6LAGELR	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I Guess I Have to Review This One Too	I have to review along with everyone else, even though I know my review will be swallowed up among the thousands of other reviews of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. The book and all of the hype around it is just too fascinating.<br />First of all, I think that Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (and all of the other Harry Potter's) is marvelous. J.K. Rowling is a very good writer. She creates some complete characters alongside some comical stock characters. She uses some brilliant word play, and the atmosphere created in the book is extraordinary. It, at least, is incomparible to any other children's novel. She is very good at incorporating pieces of Greek mythology into the novel. The plot is vastly entertaining.<br />There has been a lot of backlash against the popularity of the Harry Potter novels. But, this really happens to anything that becomes popular. Sure, there are better fantasy novels, and there are much better fantasy novels written for children. I don't think that there is a better place to start reading children's fantasy (or children's lit. for that matter). I also think that any fan of children's fantasy would have to enjoy this whether or not they think there are better books out there....<br />Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is a great book, and I think all of the controversy and hype just make it better and more appealing. I think everyone (including adults) should read this novel. It is well worth the time and money. Then, I think fans should definately move on to some of the other great childrens/adult fantasy classics like Lloyd Alexander's perfect Prydain Chronicles, C.S. Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia, J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings Trilogy and Smith of Wooton Major, and Ursula LeGuin's Earthsea Trilogy.	2001-05-01
US	47226334	R1W1R2ONFZ3UOS	0679428127	412110817	The Pied Piper of Hamelin (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Unique Children's Classic	The Pied Piper of Hamelin is a very different children's classic. Few other children's picture books tell a story in Victorian poetry. The book isn't just original; it is excellent. I have always enjoyed Robert Browning's poetry, and this is no exception. I was surprised at how easy it was to read this book compared to some of Browning's other verse, and it was pleasing to read, especially considering that this is focused toward children. I loved all of the poetic techniques used by Browning. His iambic tetrameter in couplets works very well for young readers, and I loved his use of anaphora and internal rhyme. The story is, of course, brilliant. It is the usual folk tale that every child has heard and needs to hear. It teaches its lesson, and Browning's version is even more entertaining than other versions. Also, the illustrations by Kate Greenway are fabulous. It is impossible to imagine this story in Browning's Victorian verse without Greenway's Victorian artistry. This is a true children's classic, it should definately last for years to come, and it makes and excellent buy for children or for libraries.	2001-04-26
US	47226334	R30RGVIWYB6DS3	0140367004	375417672	The Adventures of Robin Hood (Puffin Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Complete Retelling of the Classic Stories	The Adventures of Robin Hood by Roger Lancelyn Green is an excellent retelling of the Robin Hood Tales. All of the normal stories are told: those of Robin and Marian's romance, those of the archery match, and those of the marriage of Allan-a-Dale. Each story is ably written. All of the usual characters also appear: Friar Tuck, Little John, Maid Marian, Will Scarlet, and (surprise) Robin Hood. The Adventures of Robin Hood is an easy read. It is well suited for children to read and become acquainted with Robin for the first time. My favorite section to this edition is the prologue. In it, Green writes where he derived his stories from. Among the books listed is Thomas Love Peacock's brilliant, if forgotten, Maid Marian. This publication of the adventures of Robin Hood is very entertaining, and it is very informative.	2001-04-25
US	47226334	R1GSHSHXUUX4PW	0292760280	397586531	100 Love Sonnets: Cien sonetos de amor (Texas Pan American Series) (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Beautiful and Brilliant	I do not read Spanish, and so, I cannot tell the quality of Stephen Tapscott's translation. I cannot tell how much was lost from Neruda's original poems in their power. I cannot tell what was lost in their linguistics. I can say that each poem in this collection is absolutely beautiful. I have not been a great poetry reader for very long (I'm eighteen), but in the last year, I have read thousands of poems. Pablo Neruda's poems in translation are absolutely my favorites. These one hundred sonnets rank as highly with the other gorgeous translations that I have read. The poems in this book are all very freely written sonnets. Almost all that survives from the sonnets original form is the number of lines. Each poem is powerful, and Neruda is marvelous at pouring himself and his feelings for his wife into each. My favorite poem is certainly the seventeenth. Fans of Neruda's other poetry should enjoy this edition (as should fans of any great poetry), and I do hope that translations continue to be printed in the hope that Neruda will be done justice. I also hope that I can one day learn Spanish well enough to understand these sonnets in their original language.	2001-04-24
US	47226334	R2DYCTFI1SBUAT	0140367004	375417672	The Adventures of Robin Hood (Puffin Classics)	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Very Complete Retelling of the Robin Hood Tales	The Adventures of Robin Hood by Roger Lancelyn Green is a brilliant retelling of the Robin Hood tales. All of the stories are here. Robin's fight with Little John is related, as is the archery contest, Robin's love affair with Marion, and the wedding of Allan-a-Dale. All of the characters like Friar Tuck, Will Scarlet, Little John, Maid Marion, and (guess what!) Robin Hood make their appearances. Overall, the tales are well told, and the book is very complete. My favorite portion of this edition is the prologue in which the author writes from where the stories are derived. There, I was turned to Thomas Love Peacock's brilliant, if forgotten, tales of Robin Hood entitled Maid Marian. This edition will help to keep the adventures of Robin Hood in the minds of children for another generation.	2001-04-24
US	47226334	R12W7HPB9KBALQ	0689710682	500045156	Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH	Books	5	74	78	N	N	Classic Children's Lit.	This is one of my favorites (if not my favorite). Stories just don't come better than this one, and Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH will be around for a long time.<br />The story is about Mrs. Frisby who is a mouse with four small children. One them gets sick and is unable to move even though their home is about to be plowed. Mrs. Frisby is a typical mother; she will do anything to protect her children. In this case, she appeals to the mysterious rats that live under the rose bush. There, she learns all about these mysterious rats in the most interesting and entertaining flashback in children's literature. <br />Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH is one of the best books that I have ever read. I read it in a day (when I was eleven) the first time, and I have read it three times since. Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH will always have a special place on my extensive bookshelf, and it should definately be read by people for years to come.	2001-04-06
US	47226334	R17WHKYLS86AXX	0060273224	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Could Be a Classic	Sabriel by Garth Nix is a fantastic fantasy novel for young adult readers and older. It is possible that this novel could be around for a while. The novel follows in the tradition of Robin McKinley's The Hero and the Crown in that it is a great fantasy novel with a female hero. The plot sounds like a pretty-regular fantasy as Sabriel has to fight the dead, but the story is totally original. Nix fabricates a new and interesting world in the Old Kingdom. The hero who fights with bells is brilliant, too. Nix has a wonderful imagination to have thought up his concepts of free magic and the world of the dead. I loved the characters, too. Moggett was fascinating to me. I also liked Touchstone and Abhorsen. Sabriel, of course, is the best character. Nix carries off her devopment into the Abhorsen well. Overall, this is a great book for fantasy lovers. People who liked &quot;The Golden Compass&quot; should read this (I liked Sabriel better). Lovers of this novel should also go back and read all of the Lloyd Alexander novels (which are better that Sabriel).	2001-04-04
US	47226334	R22JH79T0I24SZ	0451526384	569473707	Persuasion	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simply Beautiful. Classic Jane Austen.	I've hated the fact that Persuasion isn't one of Jane Austen's most famous works ever since I read it. It is truly a beautiful love story, and it is written perfectly (as only Jane Austen could do). <br />The story is about Anne Eliot, one of Austen's most likeable characters. Seven years before the novel begins, Anne had been persuaded out of a marriage to Frederick Wentworth. Neither Anne nor Captain Wentworth, had been persuaded out of love, though. Both have basically wasted the last seven years. Fortunately for the couple, circumstances arise which through them back together, and the two have to attempt to build a new relationship and deal with there own actions from years before.<br />Persuasion is possibly Austen's greatest love story. It is much less satirical than here other novels. Anne is also a much more sympathetic character than say Emma. The novel is, of course, in Austen's incomparable style. Any romantic or lover of great literature would adore this beautiful novel.	2001-03-28
US	47226334	R313TIT18P4AUL	0679429069	298507917	Love Poems (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Beautiful	This is probably the finest collection of love poems that I have ever seen. Peter Washington, the editor, picked some of the most beautiful poems that I have heard. I was happy to see that many of my favorites like &quot;To His Mistress Going to Bed&quot; by Donne,&quot;Tonight I Can Write&quot; by Neruda, and &quot;She Tells Her Love While Half Asleep&quot; by Graves made it into this book. This collection had all of those poems that just have to be any any love collection. The great thing about this collection, though, is the many poems included that are not so well known. There are quite a few poems translated into English for this anthology which are gorgeous. Some of my favorites that I did not know before this collection are &quot;Love is Not&quot; by Marcus Argentarius, &quot;The Lord is Not Merciful&quot; by Anna Akhmatova, and Pushkin's &quot;I Loved You.&quot; No poems outside of this collection capture love any better. Any lover of good poetry should buy this wonderful collection. It is the definative anthology of love poetry.	2001-03-22
US	47226334	R2I5XBDG6ZAI3L	0020896409	637771979	Fireflies	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Marvelous Though Little Read Now	Fireflies by Rabindranath Tagore is one of the most beautiful books that I have ever read. I am not an expert on Asian literature; so, I cannot give very much background on the poems presented her. What I can say is that every poem in here is a beautiful and is a perfect thought no matter where it came from or who is reading it. This collection by the Nobel Prize winner is made up of fireflies. They are each only three to six lines long and present a single thought. The poems flow together very cohesively. Tagore covers many different subjects. He speaks of innocense, nature, power, bigotry, freedom, death, and love. In short, Tagore writes about life. My favorite was the last:<br />&quot;Before the end of my journey/may I reach within myself/the one which is the all,/leaving the outer shell/to float away with the drifting multitude/upon the current of chance and change.&quot;<br />I also liked:<br />&quot;Love is an endless mystery,/for it has nothing else to explain it.&quot;<br />Few books flow as well as this one does. It enlightens the reader through the entire book and will express into words some feelings that all people have (as good poetry should do). Anyone who loved The Prophet by Gibran would love this book as well. It is somewhat forgotten among readers of today (I'm 18, and I guarantee that no other person in my high school has read this), but it should definately not be.	2001-03-20
US	47226334	R1RX6X5ZSX0JMD	0486272842	843663556	Great Love Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Good	I am giving this collection five stars because is a wonderful collection for its price. Dover really does put out some great books for around a dollar. This collection has all of the usual love poems which appear in every love anthology like Shakespeare's &quot;Shall I Compare Thee to a Summer's Day,&quot; Jonson's &quot;To Celia,&quot; Browning's &quot;How Do I Love Thee,&quot; and Poe's &quot;Annabel Lee.&quot; The thing that impressed me about this collection were some of the little-known poems which did find their way into this book. I've always loved the poems of Thomas Campion, Thomas Moore, Walter Savage Landor, and John Clare, and each had a number of poems in the book. Any lover of love poems should buy this anthology. It is easily worth the dollar it takes to buy it. I would also recommend the anthology &quot;Love Poems&quot; selected and edited by Peter Washington for Everyman Library for anyone who wants to buy a collection of love poems.	2001-03-10
US	47226334	R3J4ZW7D8G1Y41	1853260762	214249396	Lorna Doone (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	49	49	N	N	Surprisingly Good	I was surprised that Lorna Doone by Richard Blackmore was a good as it turned out to be. It had a very compelling story and good characters even if the novel seemed a bit wordy at times. Lorna Doone is also the single best example of a romantic novel. It may not be among the very best of this category (like The Scarlet Letter, Moby Dick, or any of Jane Austen's novels), but it does fit every criteria. It had a major emphasis on feeling as the whole of the book is a love story between John Ridd and Lorna Doone. The book also has a lot of high adventure in it and an emphasis of nature (Blackmore was just about the only English forerunner of Thomas Hardy in novels in this respect). The novel was even about the common man. <br />The plot of the novel follows John Ridd. He is a respectable farmer who one day happens into the valley of the Doone's, a family/community of outlaws who had killed his father. There, he ends up falling in love with one of the Doone's own, Lorna. Then, John has to find a way to save his love and overcome their differences of birth.<br />Lorna Doone is a very interesting read. It may not be for everyone because it is long and does tend to dwell on some trivial things for a bit too long. The novel would be good for anyone who likes classics of romanticism. Lorna Doone can be a very worthwhile read.	2001-03-10
US	47226334	R3Q6WFQ7E49VAJ	0486296954	89648832	The Mysterious Affair at Styles (Dover Mystery Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Great Start	Agatha Christie's sister once boasted to her that she had never read a mystery in which she didn't know right away who the killer was. Agatha answered her by writing her first novel, The Mysterious Affair at Styles. It was quite a start to a brilliant literary career. The Mysterious Affair at Styles is well plotted and the characters are great to read about. Hercule Poirot and Hastings are really hilarious together. Poirot has to be the greatest crime-solver in literature. The entire cast of characters in this novel is interesting. This probably isn't Christie's best work (my favorite is The Murder of Roger Ackroyd) because her characteristic clean prose hadn't quite developed yet, but this is an extremely important work and is, like all of her books, entertaining. The literary critic Edmund Crispin summed Christie's work up best when he wrote: &quot;You know, relaxing with a Christie, that for an hour or two you can forget the authentic nastiness of life and submerge yourself in a world where, no matter how many murders take place, you are essentially in nevver-never land.&quot;	2001-03-10
US	47226334	R32IRRKU8FM46P	0141307048	50323875	The Cat Who Wished to Be a Man (Anytime Book)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Light and Fun Read	The Cat Who Wished to Be a Man by Lloyd Alexander is a short and entertaining read which also has some commentary on the human condition. <br />The novel is about Lionel. He is a cat. One day, he asks his master/sorcerer if he would change him into a man anyway. The sorcerer doesn't have a very high opinion of man, but he ends up changing Lionel into a man. Lionel then travels into the city. There, he finds corruption of all kinds. He finds a mayor who is greedy and power-hungry. The captain of the guard is corrupt. Huge numbers of offenses happen to Lionel. But Lionel also finds some friends. He meets Dr. Tudbelly and falls for Mistriss Gillian. Lionel eventually has to fight against his enemies for his friends and try to stay a human. <br />The Cat Who Wished to Be a Man is a commentary on life. Through the eyes of a naive creature, Alexander exposes some of the failures of mankind. Alexander also shows the greatness because love and justice can prevail. Alexander makes all of these observations in a thrilling and at times funny story. The Cat Who Wished to Be a Man is not Alexander's greatest book. It just is not quite as entertaining or insightful as his Westmark Trilogy, Prydain Chronicals, or The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian, but Alexander never has written a book worth less than five stars. The Cat Who Wished to Be a Man is a great piece of literature for people of all ages.	2001-03-04
US	47226334	R10VP2F7XDAHCO	0141308168	200034451	The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This Really is the Greatest Children's Novel	The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian by Lloyd Alexander is a wonderful book by possibly the greatest children's author. This book has so much in it. It has a lot of adventure, romance, fantasy, humor, commentary on the human condition, and is even an allegory about the power of beauty on a persons life. It reminds the reader of classics like Anthony Hope's A Prisoner of Zenda and Raphael Sabatini's Sabatini (readers should also read all of Alexander's other novels). The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian certainly deserved its National Book Award and deserves to be regarded as a classic.<br />The story is really marvelous. It is about Sebastian who is an Eighteenth-Century fiddler in the imaginary kingdom of Hamelin-Loring. Unfortunate occurances force him to lose his place as a fiddler in a baron's personal orchestra. This starts the naive hero on his journey through life. Along the way, he joins a travelling acting troup and falls for a princess. Sebastian also comes across a magnificent fiddle which makes music beyond anyone's dreams. Sebastian also has the misfortune of gaining a large number of powerful enemies. Sebastian ends up having to face all of his difficulties with his friends and grow up along the way.<br />The Marvelous Misadventures of Sebastian is what all children's literature should strive to be. It presents a great story and contains depth. The reader learns countless lessons about life as Sebastian learns them in the novel. The novel speaks of love, growing up, evil, and even democratic governments. The novel also speaks of the power of beauty. In the novel, the supernatural fiddle almost brings Sebastian down as he is made drunk on its music. <br />I will end this review with Lloyd Alexander's own profound comments about the book. They might be irrelevent until after a person reads the novel, but I do not know if they are in new editions of the book and they should be read somewhere:<br />&quot;The story isn't only about a musician. Fantasy should speak from and to the human condition, and I think each of us carries Sebastian's fiddle in one form or another. The question is: How closely dare we listen to it? How willing are we to commit ourselves to its music? Sebastian heard his own answer, as we must hear our own melodies.&quot;	2001-03-04
US	47226334	R3V6CIR6FY4MIB	0698116801	857940487	The Matchlock Gun	Books	4	7	14	N	N	Well Written but With Problems	The Matchlock Gun by Walter D. Edmonds was a pretty decent book. It is a historical story of Dutch setters during the French and Indian War. In it, Edward's father leaves to fight with the militia. This leaves Edward, his mother, and his little sister at home alone. The mother suspects trouble, and she prepares the family to defend themselves. Eventually, Edward does have to fight to defend the family. I loved the prose style which the story was told in. It was spare and built the intensity. I also loved how the family relations were shown. The pictures really enhanced the story, too. My only problem with the story was that it did not make any statement on violence. In the story, a ten year boy has to fight to save his family. No bad effects or problems with the situation are shown. Also, there is rejoicing when some Indians are killed. I thought the story was very good, but the messages on violence might not be great for some children.	2001-02-21
US	47226334	R15QILMVCZ4ZPV	0345336062	365669094	Smith of Wootton Major & Farmer Giles of Ham	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Marvelous	Smith of Wootton Major and Farmer Giles of Ham is a marvelous read. It is made up of two stories from the fantasy genius J.R.R. Tolkien. The first story, Smith of Wootton Major, is very entertaining and has some depth. The main character is Smith, a blacksmith, who receives a magical gift. He is able to travel into the fairy's land. His life is enriched and enlightened by his experiences. This story speaks to Tolkien's own love of fantasy. He speaks of how his fantasy writings and readings have helped his life. People attacking the Harry Potter series should all read this story. The other story doesn't quite have the depth, but it has much more comedy. Farmer Giles of Ham is about a farmer who becomes a hero. A dragon enters the village and Giles is sent to conquer it. Unfortunately, the dragon doesn't want to fight. The story may sound familiar, but Tolkien was the first to do anything close to it, and it is somewhat different from other versions of the story. Tolkien also uses a lot of word play, and the names are hilarious. Children and adults alike should read these fabulous stories.	2001-02-21
US	47226334	R2VEO2SC0760ZG	0689316143	924940218	Shiloh (The Shiloh Quartet)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Very Good	Shiloh by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor is a very good children's novel. &quot;Boy and their dog stories&quot; have been kind of a staple in children's literature since Ouida's A Dog of Flanders, and this is one of the better examples. This book is narrated by Marty, and eleven-year-old from a very poor West Virginia family. He happens upon a dog one day who has noticably been abused. Marty falls for the dog, but he doesn't want to return it to its owner. Ethical questions are raised as to whether he should return the dog or keep it (steal) and lie to his parents. This novel presents a good and well-written story. It also raises some thought provoking questions and teaches some marvelous lessons. My favorite aspect of the novel was the way in which the family was written about. The setting and speech are captured exactly. The situation of a dirt-poor family that loves each other and is working to better itself is presented brilliantly. Children should read Shiloh.	2001-02-20
US	47226334	RWHITTNZRER2G	0590129988	577929965	Clockwork : Or All Wound Up	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Splendid!	Clockwork by Philip is a truly fascinating tale. When I read it, I immediately thought of the tales by E.T.A. Hoffman and Edgar Allen Poe. This story begins in a German tavern. A young novelist begins a story which ends in reality. The story surrounds a young clockmaker who makes a Faustian pact and who is destroyed. The story also contains an extreme act of love from an innocent character. This is a marvelous short read. It takes less than an hour to read. Children and anyone who enjoys the tales of Hoffman and Poe would enjoy this story.	2001-02-15
US	47226334	R2S9WJOX620T9N	0395083656	707805727	O Pioneers!	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Only Pretty-Good	O Pioneers by Willa Cather is a descent read. It is an interesting story about how a women survives because of her love of the land. I liked the characters pretty well, and I really do enjoy Willa Cather's style of writing. I just do not think that this was her best novel or that it reached its potential. This novel was supposed to be about how the land held Alexandra and how she survived for and with it. Cather seemed to get off of her thesis, though. She tells page after page of the love affair between Marie and Emil and gets of topic. She could have developed Alexandra's relationships more thoroughly. Some technical aspects or the novel become bothersome, also. Some of the dialogue seems false and the verb tense Cather writes in switches at places in the novel. Overall, the novel is worth reading, but it would be better to read her other works like My Antonia and Death Comes for the Archbishop. <br />p.s. I did like that Cather acknowledged Sarah Orne Jewett with the dedication.	2001-02-15
US	47226334	R2DTZJGST0YFOW	0062059114	455755867	The Wainscott Weasel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Marvelous Read	The Wainscott Weasel by Tor Seidler is a marvelous book for children. Any person who enjoys books like The Wind in the Willows, Watership Down, Charlotte's Web, and Winnie-the-Pooh will love this humorous and moving story. It concerns Bagley Brown, Jr. He is the son of a famous, brilliant weasel. Bagley has neither lived up to his family name nor lived down his parents death. To further his troubles, he falls in love...with a fish. Eventually, Bagley must try to save his love and live up to his heritage. This is a humorous and adventurous tale that takes you into another world. Any child should enjoy this.	2001-01-25
US	47226334	R3U8IJV62KH6H1	0689717679	903536734	The Jazz Man	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Bit of a Disappointment	The Jazz Mary Hays Weik was a disappointment. I probably expected too much from it. When I read about the very short book, I thought that it sounded like a children's version of the James Baldwin short story &quot;Sonny's Blues.&quot; &quot;Sonny's Blues&quot; is a marvelous story set in Harlem about a man who lives in his music. The Jazz Man reaches none of its brilliance. It does capture the ability of music to music to brighten a dull life, but this book doesn't treat some matters well enough. Social problems which could have been explored were not, and the relationship between the main character, Zeke, and his parents was not developed. The book is an interesting read. It is worth the fifteen minutes that it takes to read it, though it did have flaws. Do read &quot;Sonny's Blues.&quot;	2001-01-24
US	47226334	R1QGV5VPEL9CK7	0374418268	656072016	Dominic (Sunburst Book)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	One of the Greatest Children's Books Ever	Dominic is one of the greatest works by one of the two greatest children's authors (I consider Lloyd Alexander the other). Dominic is a great character and it is marvelous to read of his picaresque adventures. The novel also has a lot of depth in it.<br />The novel follows Dominic who is a dog. He begins to feel restless one day and sets out on the road for adventure. Dominic constantly uses his many talents and wits during the trip. In his adventures Dominic finds treasure, a little love, the horrid Doomesday Gang, and, eventually, himself.<br />William Steig always conveys a clear message in his novels. He writes about how to love life and everything about life. He writes great pathetic falacies (descriptions of nature). He writes of love for fellow beings. Steig also addresses important facets of life. My favorite part of Dominic is when Dominic has to deal with the death of a friend. Steig writes: <br />&quot;He (Dominic) had to cry. Life was suddenly too sad. And yet it was beautiful. The beauty was dimmed when the sadness welled up. And the beauty would be there again when the sadness went. So the beauty and the sadness belonged together somehow, though they were not the same at all.&quot;<br />Steig's prose is always as marvelous and as meaningful. Few novelists of any genre have had the success that Steig has in Dominic. All children and many adults should read this book. (Also, read Steig's Abel's Island and The Real Thief.)	2000-12-19
US	47226334	R1GTRBYVC38EXK	0380008343	177857591	The Stronghold	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Disappointment	The Stronghold by Mollie Hunter was a pretty decent historical book. It was interesting, though it did have its flaws. The story follows Coll. He is a very young man who was crippled during childhood by a Roman raid on his Scottish people. He has spent his entire life planning to build a stronghold which would hold off the raiders. He has had difficulties trying to sell his idea to the leaders of his village. Coll has also fallen in love with the chieftan's daughter and cannot marry her because of his weakness. Coll's life is further complicated when a traitor moves into his village and begins to scheme to take power. Coll has to try to solve all of these problems. The novel reaches its climax when the village is eventually attacked by its enemies. The novel is fairly exciting. My problems with it are only with how people react to certain situations. For instance, it is hard to believe that Coll, as a four-year old child, began to design his stronghold. Some of the dialogue was bothersome, too. Overall, I did like the book, and I would recommend it to someone who enjoys historic literature. I do not think that this should have won the Carnegie Medal.	2000-12-12
US	47226334	R1K2WD9GI0F866	0679873937	411190937	Babe: The Gallant Pig	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Comparable to Charlotte's Web	It's impossible to not compare Babe to Charlotte's Web because it is also about a pig that is trying to save its neck. Babe really holds up well against the classic work. Babe (which is very much like the movie that came from it) tells a marvelous story and also contains a lot of depth. The short book tells the story of a pig who decides to become a sheep-dog (or sheep-pig). King-Smith relates humorous, exciting, and touching episodes of the pig's life until the novel reaches a splendid climax at the National Sheep-Dog Trials. The novel does have quite a bit to say about life. It speaks to overcoming traditional boundaries as Babe becomes a sheep-pig. The novel speaks to how fellow beings should be treated. Perhaps most importantly, Babe: The Gallant Pig speaks ... as Babe learns to treat the &quot;stupid&quot; animals (this is what they were known as prior to Babe) like sheep and ducks with politeness and friendship. Babe: The Gallant pig has a lot to say (particularly to children) and tells a great story. It certainly ranks among the top works of children's literature.	2000-11-25
