US	47303730	RWSD4SBVV07OI	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	3	33	45	N	N	Good stepping stone to 1984 and Brave New World	I'll admit it, in the interest of full disclosure: I don't like Ray Bradbury. Not so much his work, but him. His quasi-luddite persona that distrusts ATMs but dreams of flying cars, his palpable (and occasionally justified) pretentiousness that allowed him to transcend pulp sci-fi in the 50s while still pandering to that crowd. That out of the way... <br /> <br />Fahrenheit 451 is an excellent book for a high school sophomore/junior about the dangers of anti-intellectualism and censorship. It is a bracing look at what such policy might lead to. It's fairly well-reasoned and it remains gripping throughout. On the other hand, however, it lacks the sort of over-arching philosophy that can be found in other dystopias. Although it's a great way to get into the subgenre, it's by no means the only or best word upon the subject. It happens to be oversimplified and narrow in focus. <br /> <br />It is also, though, excessively didactic. There's very little nuance here, and it's none too subtle about getting across its message. It doesn't quite match up to 1984 and Brave New World, both of which ponder higher philosophical questions and give us plausible scenarios in which the human spirit is broken. In fact, 1984 is now only really significant in its portrait of humanity, since the state it depicts is no longer achievable (I guess Orwell never thought that it would be companies and individuals and not the government who would develop computer technology). Brave New World is the most prophetic of all, largely because it depicts the final showdown of the human spirit and the wheels of society not as a bang, but a whimper, with people so preoccupied with sex and drugs that they just push out thoughts when they come. <br /> <br />In fact, Fahrenheit 451 is not all that prophetic. As a warning sign, sure, it retains currency, but it was written before the sexual revolution and the civil rights movement, in Eisenhower's America, where paranoia over Red invasion and Soviet spies like the Rosenbergs and Alger Hiss made such private invasion seem inevitable in the name of preserving liberty. In fact, restrictions on expression have been almost infinitely eased since 1954. The Supreme Court under Earl Warren began to strike down state obscenity laws prohibiting mostly porn, but also avant-garde films, to the point now where they're all gone. I'm not about to argue that the arts now are more vital and important than they ever have been, but it helps when the most popular show on TV is The Sopranos when it used to be All in the Family. Now, much more than ever, we live in a society where the minority is free to say what they wish, thanks to the Internet, the great equalizer. That these voices don't all make it into the mainstream is the fault of the media corporations and the anti-intellectual public, not moral queasiness by the majority. In fact, looking at the 50's, with the Hollywood Ten who went to prison for refusing to answer questions about Communists, where being a Communist and speaking out against the government (in some circumstances) were crimes, and Joe McCarthy decrying such people as Arthur Miller and Defense Secretary George C. Marshall as Communists, it is difficult to argue that censorship has worsened. In every measureable respect, things have gotten much better. That's not to say that tomorrow it might go the other way, but it hasn't and it probably won't. <br /> <br />In spite of the recent Ray Bradbury renaissance, we need to put all of his work into context. The outwardly-happy-inwardly-freaked-out 1950s led to many great artistic works, like On The Waterfront and film noir, as well as great popular works, like The Twilight Zone, all of which had underneath them the peculiar paranoia of the time. Fahrenheit 451 is no different, and I would implore you to read it and take this into account. It is highly readable, but let's be honest about its impact and accuracy as prediction.	2005-10-08
US	47303730	R3UDWFSZ1MHF7N	0684808528	618712393	CHIEF JUSTICE: A Biography of Earl Warren	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Great Man, Great Book	Earl Warren grew up in Bakersfield, California. To those of you who've been there, it seems an unlikely place to beget one of the great justices of the 20th century who was known for his ability to continue to mold and change his ideas. However, this comprehensive and excellent biography of Earl Warren, Governor of California and 14th Chief Justice of the United States, shows that he turned out far from where he might have been expected to wind up.<br /><br />The book starts with Warren's childhood, where he was an above-average student who went into the county courtroom every day because it was too hot outside and became entranced with the law. He would go to UC Berkeley for his undergraduate and law degrees, and after a few odd jobs would wind up as the Alameda County DA, where he made a name for himself by cleaning out organized crime, gambling, and prostitution from the county. His work gave him high visibility, from which to launch his campaign for Attorney General of California, where he would be responsible in the infamous forced internment of Japanese and Japanese-Americans after Pearl Harbor (as the author notes, only near the end of his life did he come to terms with this act). Then, as now, State AG was merely a stepping stone to the Governor's Mansion, to which he won three terms. Although a Republican, he pushed for progressive reforms in many areas: he tried to get all Californians covered for healthcare (and failed), he tried to make college in California excellent and inexpensive (and succeeded), and he tried to pass worker safety and environmental protection legislation (and did both). He was extremely popular in the state, in fact, in 1946 he won the primaries for the Democratic, Republican, and Progressive parties (Under California law at the time, you could file for the nominations of all parties). His reputation as a moderate consensus-builder in a Democratic state who had still accomplished most of what he wanted made him a lock for the Vice-Presidential slot alongside Tom Dewey, which seemed as sure a thing as possible. Unfortunately (or perhaps fortunately) for Warren, the 1948 election was won by Harry Truman in the biggest surprise in American politics. He would run again four years later, in 1952, hoping to be able to become a consensus candidate for President. Instead, he ended up having to surrender his chances due to an insufficient budget and lobbying by Dwight Eisenhower. Ike, however, knew what Warren had given up and promised him the thing that he really wanted: an appointment to the Supreme court, which happened less than a year later, with the passing of Chief Justice Fred Vinson. This is where the book heats up. The book makes clear that Warren was neither an intellectual, nor a brilliant writer nor the possessor of a natural legal intuition. What he did have, though, was the willingness to work very hard, as well as the ability to persuade colleagues to vote with him. His leadership became apparent when the Brown decision was handed down, unanimously. Brown was nearly evenly divided before, however, Warren went to work on his colleagues one at a time and managed to wrangle agreement on what is, aside from Roe v. Wade, the most famous and without a doubt the most celebrated court case of all. Never one to settle with small or half measures, Warren proceeed to establish a broad interpretation of the constitution, guided by a simple moral compass. He knew that any decision could be backed up by reasoning and precedent, so he picked the side he felt was morally right and let his clerks sort it out. The major cases, including Gideon v. Wainwright (establishing a right to an attorney), Miranda v. Arizona (ever seen a cop show?), and Mapp v. Ohio (ensuring state legislatures were determined by population and not by land) were controversial, but now they seem almost natural. Occasionally the court went too far for the public: banishing school prayer sparked a debate that continues to this day, butagain, Warren was looking out for fairness--in this case, he wanted no ill-will toward non-believing schoolchildren. As the book notes, very few of the Chief's vast pronouncements have been rolled back by the Burger and Rehnquist courts, and it seems certain by this point that they will have long life in the republic. The book also goes over his involvement in the Warren Commission to investigate the JFK assassination, in some detail. However, some of the most interesting material involves his ability to lead the other disparate justices on the court: moderating the continuing feuds between the liberal activist faction, including Hugo Black and William Douglas; and the judicial restraint supporters like Felix Frankfurter and Robert Jackson.<br /><br />John Roberts should read closely how Warren managed to provide a model for being a Chief Justice: kind but firm, willing to compromise but continually steering the court in his own direction. Love him or hate him, Warren is rightfully considered among the best Chief Justices, and this book tells why. After reading, it is little wonder that after Warren's departure, and the arrival of the super-political hack Warren Burger, justices like William Brennan, Black and Douglas regarded him as the real chief. Warren was a man who transcended his times: his total lack of prejudice and dedication to preserving the American dream gave him a greater impact on America than Eisenhower or Nixon, his arch-enemy. We could use more men from all persuasions like him.	2005-10-04
US	47303730	ROCRN1R4L5XT8	0671747584	528393041	Eisenhower: Soldier and President (The Renowned One-Volume Life)	Books	5	107	121	N	N	An Underrated Figure	Eisenhower is generally regarded as a do-nothing President, one whose only legacy to the country is his face on the discontinued silver dollar and who only left for the presidency a putting green on the White House grounds. Surrounded as he was by two younger and more idealistic men in the history books, Ambrose clearly sees something of value in his eight years in office, and after reading this book, I somewhat agree. <br /> <br />However, just to do an Eisenhower biography focusing on the Presidency would be insufficient: as a general, he masterminded Operation Overlord and led the final assault on Germany, in the process defeating German genius Erwin Rommel. The first half or so of the book details his military successes and failures, his relationships with Generals Marshall and MacArthur, and how his remarkable victory came about. However, few deny that Ike was a great military leader. His presidency, on the other hand, is a quite contentious matter to this day, and Ambrose defends his record. He doesn't obfuscate facts, though: Eisenhower declined to take leadership on the single most important issue of his term in office: civil rights. The book makes it very clear that Ike's sympathies were with the southerners in the integration battles, and although his response to the Warren Court's decision to end segregation was far from Jackson's famous one (\\"John Marshall has made his ruling, now let him enforce it\\"), he didn't enforce Warren's sweeping proclamation with much vigor. In fact, for several years, he didn't enforce it at all. It took outright defiance for him to act, which he ultimately did. The book claims that Eisenhower's nomination of Earl Warren as Chief Justice was  something that he always approved of, even if he had differences with the great Chief, which would be a real revelation if true, since he famously referred to Warren as \\"the biggest damned-fool mistake I ever made.\\" In spite of Ike's reticence to rigorously enforce desegregation, he did appoint Warren and William Brennan to the Court, both of whom would at least help his legacy on this issue. Eisenhower's presidency was extremely secretive, perhaps just as much as Nixon's (and the current Bush's), but he took the constitutionally murky step of using executive privilege to try to shut down, indirectly, the McCarthyist fear machine. Ambrose also rightly admonishes Ike for failing to denounce the demagogue himself. Also, using the CIA to incite rebellion and assassinate foreign leaders was unprecedented, although, like executive privilege, he was not the chief abuser of these extra-legal powers (LBJ did more with the CIA, and for executive privilege, you know who). However, Ambrose points out many of his successes also: he was the only President of the 20th century (aside from Clinton) to preside over two full terms of peace and prosperity, and one of an even smaller group that left office with a popularity rating higher than when he entered (also, incidentally, like Clinton). It is interesting to note the two men's similarities: both won the presidency after the opposing party had been entrenched in the White House for years, both were moderate compromisers, both were thought of by their detractors as do-nothing presidents and by their supporters as great ones. There's a book I'd like to see, but I'm getting off subject. Eisenhower got us out of Korea, kept us out of Vietnam (despite elaborate efforts to \\"get us in\\"), continued Truman's multilateralist policy in containing communism, urged calm and restraint at a time of great fear and paranoia, and history has proven him right at questioning the sanity of the missile gap, warning us of the military-industrial complex, and avoiding conflict in Southeastern Asia. Now, if only we'd listened to those ideas... <br /> <br />Although many might characterize Eisenhower's presidency as a catalogue of missed chances, he provided stable leadership and political moderation at a polarized time. Unlike some reviewers, I am not bothered by Ambrose's open admiration of his subject. Ask any historian if it's possible to write unbiased history and they'll say it's not. If they say they're unbiased, they're lying. I'd just as soon, in the interests of full disclosure, hear where the author stands in order to evaluate him. For his wise but flawed leadership, Eisenhower has earned a place in history, and this is a great introduction to a pivotal figure in 20th century history.	2005-10-04
US	47303730	R383Q7JKCLRXEL	0743274024	79559742	The Brethren: Inside the Supreme Court	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Great Timeless Book	This book might seem dated: it describes the machinations of the court from 1969 to 1976, which included, among other things, Roe v. Wade and the Watergate tapes case. However, it is far from obsolete. The Brethren is a still-unprecedented look into the Supreme Court, the most secretive top-level branch of government. Although the faces (save one) and the cases are different, the way in which cases are decided by this body has likely not, plus it is a look at a tumultous time in ours as well as the Court's history. <br /> <br />The focus of the story is Chief Justice Warren Earl Burger, who replaces Earl Warren after his retirement. The irony of the names is unexplored, but it is appropriate, because Burger becomes progressively preoccupied with trying to match Warren's legacy. Unlike Warren, though, he allows political concerns and vanity to influence his judgment and, bit by bit, erode the confidence of his colleagues, to the point where the late William Rehnquist, then a young conservative on the Court, makes fun of him behind his back. Although this book is unflattering to some of the justices, such as Thurgood Marshall, who is noted as lazy and uninvolved and Byron White, who is noted to be unlikeable, Burger is the biggest loser here. The book was published in the early 80s, only a few years before Burger left the court, and the image of him as a pompous, preening, intellectually deficient and generally clueless politician cost him, big time. In spite of the landmark rulings his Court made, he was unable to reverse the Warren Court's liberal activism (as he had hoped to do). His \\"Minnesota Twin\\", Harry Blackmun, would drift further away from him, both politically and personally, until finally becoming the most liberal justice after the departure of Thurgood Marshall in 1991. Burger's Macchiavellian strategizing to assign opinions caused such a backlash that, at one point, William Brennan decides to vote for whatever side of a case puts him in the minority so that Burger won't be able to assign him another crappy oppinion. <br /> <br />Ultimately, Burger had good intentions, but his blunders dominate the book. He is a fascinating character, almost as bad a manager and as delusional as David Brent from the recent BBC TV Series The Office. Some of the principals come out looking good: Potter Stewart, for example, and Brennan also. But Rehnquist comes out best, in spite of some scheming and obfuscation. Burger, though, is front and center, and he's a reminder of how we're to seriously we all should take the business of the Court.	2005-10-04
US	47303730	R2GIO1238SK8N8	0671456547	680068737	Truman	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	A Rare Study in Courage	Harry Truman was never supposed to be President. He grew up in rural Missouri, the son of an unsuccessful businessman and farmer. He was backed by the powerful Pendergast machine for all of his state elections and was a consensus pick for Vice President in 1944, to an increasingly ailing FDR. When he assumed the office, he was unprepared and it showed. How he came to greatness all his own, as well as being generally considered among the best Presidents of all time despite leaving office with a disapproval rating of 66% (still the all-time record) is the subject of this extraordinary book. Truman was just a common man, some would say, but they'd be wrong. Our 33rd president was a man of great vigor and vitality, and most of all, courage. Despite being from the South he was the leading voice in the Democratic Party for legal equality for all Americans and an end to desegregation. The time had not yet come, but that didn't stop him from doing all he could to get the ball rolling, such as desegregating the Armed Forces in 1948, during a close election campaign in which the normally \\"Solid\\" South was being courted by recently deceased uber-racist Strom Thurmond on a Dixiecrat ticket. That campaign, against Thomas Dewey, was the biggest upset of the 20th century, and it just proved further never to count Harry out. <br /> <br />As would be expected for a book with a subject so complex and fascinating as Harry S. Truman, this is a mammoth tome. However, it rarely drags. His childhood and adolescence are preceded with a little family history, then followed by his service in World War I, his failed garment business, his time in office as a county administrator in Independence, then the U.S. Senate, where he rose to fame by being a fierce investigator of wartime appropriations. He was one of the most popular and visible Senators because of his service on the Truman Committee, and thus was drafted by party bosses around the country to replace the excessively liberal and unliked Henry Wallace on the Democratic Ticket in '44. Public opinion toward Truman after FDR died was quite hostile, but as with all the other challenges in his life, he rose to meet this one. The major events of his presidency are all here: Civil Rights, the Truman Doctrine and Marshall Plan (which marked an end to the same old song of American Isolationism for good), the Berlin Airlifts, The Bomb, re-election, and Korea and the showdown with General MacArthur. The campaign stuff is especially great--Dewey/Warren was a 13 point favorite over Truman/Barkley, with Thurmond trying to break off the Southern vote and Wallace trying to snatch the liberal vote. Losing two components of his core constituency, plus facing an attractive, moderate opposition ticket while extremely vulnerable himself, indicated certain doom. However, Truman, through sheer force of personality, refused to give up and never seemed to doubt winning as he zigzagged across the country, throwing partisan fire and convincing average Americans he was one of them and would keep the New Deal alive, as opposed to his to-the-manner-born opponent, who was long on rhetoric but short on ideas and issues. The result, of course, was Truman's re-election and the end of Dewey's political career. Truman won without softening his record--for example, he was the first candidate to stump in Harlem, as the book notes. It's a recurring theme: Truman took stances that didn't quite resonate with his base, i.e. desegregating the Armed Forces, drafting the Coal Miners into the Army, etc., but he did them anyway. Although he was willing to admit a mistake, he was never willing to back down on his principles, and history has judged him well for it. Truman is rightly considered one of the giants of American History, although it did take us all a little time to figure it out. <br /> <br />Ultimately, Harry Truman was no ordinary man. Following FDR, he was initially compared to the consensus pick for worst president, Andrew Johnson, who followed Lincoln and managed to bumble his way into politically-motivated impeachment. Now, he is mentioned in the same breath with his idol, Andrew Jackson. His nearly incredible reserve of energy and earnest desire to help all people make him a President for the ages.	2005-09-25
US	47303730	R3CX3CAHCBGBDB	067003133X	929452996	The Bounty: The True Story of the Mutiny on the Bounty	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The "Real" Story	The Bounty is an impressive work of scholarship about the Bounty Mutiny that unapologetically aims to dispel historical myths regarding the incident. Perhaps the greatest feature of the historical mystery is that it has no true answer, it transcends the pages of a history book and becomes a matter of speculation for the ages. If there had been a clear and unequivocal answer on the Kennedy assassination, do you think that people would still come up with theories about it? (By the way, sorry to all you Watergate Deep Throat theorizers. You've lost your mystery). However, the sheer excellence of Alexander's account outweighs the demolition of some of the mystery, and, given the political climate, it seems appropriate to revisit the Bounty Mutiny. <br /> <br />Alexander's self-stated goal is to salvage the reputation of Lt. William Bligh, the Bounty's skipper and cast-away who would complete the most incredible story of survival in history: over a month in an open boat, travelling over 3600 miles, through storms, to arrive at West Timor. The extensive proof used comes from journals, personal correspondence from family members of the mutineers and others involved in the incident. Far from being the brutish, ignorant moron that Charles Laughton played in \\"Mutiny on the Bounty\\", the real Bligh more resembled Anthony Hopkins' more serene and talented version, who cracks the whip after the Bounty's departure from Tahiti and can't control the large contingent of ingrates on his small ship. It makes one wonder: if Bligh had had a bigger ship, with Marines and more officers, would the mutiny have occurred at all? However, the biggest revelations in the book have to do with Bligh's mutinous Midshipman, Peter Heywood, who managed to bring a smear campaign down upon Bligh to protect his own reputation. Heywood was the basis for the protagonist in the Laughton version, and he turns out not to be quite so noble in real life as his alter ego in that film. It was Heywood's version ofBligh that had shaped perception of him for 200 years, which, according to Alexander, was not at all accurate. Bligh was, in fact, extremely conscientious of all the needs of his crew, especially their health and fitness. Alexander does us a service by revealing many of the truths behind the story. The one area that remains hazy (even she admits so) is Christian's side of the story--aside from a few statements to shipmates, we still don't know why he decided to lead the mutiny that would eventually cost him his life a few years later, as well as the rest of the mutineers save one. The most central figure to the mutiny remains an enigma. Alexander leaves this part of the mystery open (likely because there will never be any solution), so the story doesn't become a closed chapter in history. <br /> <br />This book, as I said, holds resonance in our current sociopolitical environment, it is well-written and historically important, and I highly recommend it.	2005-07-20
US	47303730	RPX3MNV8EP0BI	013919424X	852429549	C++ for Java Programmers	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Excellent Accelerated Intro to C++	Although C++ is definitely on the decline, it will be a major force in the programming world for years to come. This book is an excellent intro to the language taught specifically for a person with some Java experience, and it does do an effective job of comparing and contrasting the two languages. The analogies, I feel are invaluable to understanding abstract concepts in C++, and the approach is better than starting from the ground up, if you understand Java at a fundamental level. I also have to disagree with the reviewer below: the writing is quite good, it's concise and not excessively technical. I suspect that that reviewer is unfamiliar with contemporary texts on computer science, because this is one of the more readable ones I know. <br /> <br />Although the latter few chapters were not, I feel, exceptionally helpful, the book is a much better and lighter (not to mention cheaper) alternative to others out there, and is quite worth it, in every way.	2005-03-31
US	47303730	RXWVMHDD922AL	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Virtuosic	I wouldn't hesitate to put this book in O'Brien's top 3, along with The Things they Carried and Going After Cacciato. The story revolves around Minnesota Lieutenant Governor and Senate Candidate John Wade, who loses a brutal race in which it is divulged that he participated in the infamous My Lai massacre 30 years earlier. His political career over and future stalled, he decides to spend a little time with his wife in a small lodge in the wilderness. Before long, she goes missing, and a cloud of suspicion descends over him. <br /> <br />Everything to like about O'Brien is here: his mastery of language and knowledge of humanity. Here, he looks at how secrets can affect us and how devastating denial can be. We all have loose threads in the tapestry of our lives, but if we ignore them, the entire thing can unravel. Plus, this functions as a closer look at the kinds of people you find in government: hopelessly insecure, traumatized, power-hungry. This is not to say that Wade was a bad man, but he did have problems. <br /> <br />As for Wade himself, I found him pitiable. He certainly was not an angel--he spied on his wife, lied to her, lied to everyone, and hurt a lot of people. He didn't want to get into politics to help people, but rather to indulge his own tastes. However, the humiliation heaped upon him is more than anyone should have to bear. I am of the opinion that Wade did not have anything to do with the disappearance, although it is a trick worthy of his magician self--make the lady disappear. <br /> <br />Overall, I found the book very enlightening and enjoyable, far better than The Nuclear Age, the last O'Brien book I read. This marks a return to form for the incomparable Tim O'Brien.	2005-02-28
US	47303730	R2W528YAEDDG0H	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Gold Standard	This book is a perfect introduction to the mind-bending, mysterious work of Tim O'Brien. Arguably his best work (although Going After Cacciato is also quite good), The Things They Carried marks an impressive achievement in modern literature. O'Brien eschews the cliches of war and creates a profoundly original and deeply moving work that should be read by everyone, even if the Vietnam War is not of any interest to you. <br /> <br />O'Brien's mastery of the language has never been better than it was here, and his perspective is fictional autobiography--fictional in the sense that it never happened, but still autobiographical because the underlying feelings and attitudes are very much rooted in truth. Rather than a traditional anti-war book, a la All Quiet on the Western Front, this book transcends the polemic and talks more about the human condition, what we do and what we know. My favorite section in the book is his talk about what war is and isn't--it's written with the truth and knowledge of someone who's been there and wants to tell what it was like, but, as to paraphrase what he says, it's one of those things that you don't understand for twenty years, then you wake up in the middle of the night understanding it and try to wake up your wife to tell her, but by the time she gets up you've forgotten.  <br /> <br />Passionate, moving, and unforgettable, this is a book for the ages.	2005-02-22
US	47303730	R28KCXLJBVA5T7	053439339X	372607869	Calculus, 5th Edition	Books	3	12	17	N	Y	Hardly a keeper	Having now completed the Calculus series, I would like to say that I am not a fan of this text. It seemed less intolerable for the later chapters--vectors, multivariate calculus and vector calculus were all fairly well presented. However, the rest of the material is not. I'm something of a mathematician, as a Computer Science major, and I can honestly say that this textbook is not geared toward students to whom this material is unfamiliar and tangentially important to their studies. As opposed to Anton's text that I used in high school, which was clear and concise, this one was wordy and excessively preoccupied with proving every theorem--fine if you're a math major, but I really didn't need to know all that. I wouldn't mind so much, except this stuff came at the expense of genuine examples, which are sorely needed at this point in the ballgame. The book is supposed to cover the entire calculus series, which is another reason it is so compactified. The exercises this book prescribes are often cryptic, requiring some feat of math legerdemain to pull them off. They go from easy to really hard really quickly; a lot of them can't be solved from a beginner's frame of reference. If it's required for the class, you have no choice, but if a teacher somewhere is reading this, I recommend Anton's excellent Calculus text--this one is fine for math majors, but for science and engineering types, not to mention general ed students, this is a daunting and cryptic tome.	2004-12-16
US	47303730	RJST4PB4VIENP	1400054559	389172462	Fanfare for the Area Man: The Onion Ad Nauseam Complete News Archives, Vol. 15	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Another great compilation	The Onion has been on my favorites list for many years. Who else is able to come out with a heaping helping of hilarity every week and stay as consistently original, literate, and sophisticated as these folks? Not many. For those of you expecting low-brow spoofs, you might be surprised, but I think that ultimately, you will enjoy it. The Onion is similar to a print version of The Daily Show, for all of you fans out there. There are contributing columnists (especially hilarious is a certain accountant gangsta') and parodies of current events, politics, celebrities, and culture. The principal difference is, perhaps, the flat-out invention of news stories to achieve this end, while Jon Stewart prefers to mock the newsmakers. Both approaches work, and if you like one you'll probably like the other. This anthology contains an entire year of Onion hilarity (for about 15 bucks--what a deal). Samples of the Onion's headlines: Cheney enters Presidential race himself (but he's still on the ticket with Bush), Kerry selects 1968 version of self as running mate, McDonalds to remove the \\"Hammurderer\\" from its promotional material (the \\"Grapist\\" is also going to have to go), etc. I could tell you more, but I think my point is made. Get the book...please.	2004-10-02
US	47303730	RQEASJOFP7JW9	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The volume no fan should be without	I've been watching the Daily Show with Jon Stewart for a while. A long while. I watched it even before Jon Stewart (or, as I like to say, the dark ages). Although I am still waiting for a best-of DVD set of some sort, I can sate my (admittedly) unhealthy obsession for the funniest and wittiest fake news around with this book. <br /> <br />This book is satire at its finest, but then again, what would you expect? Packed with the same dryly ironic humor and irreverent wit that makes the show so memorable, the book features the history of democracy according to the Daily Show staff, the role of various governmental bodies, and the future. There are so many jokes per page: Stewart lampoons both parties: the Republicans (drawn to return to a flowery past that never really existed) and Democrats (idealists drawn to create a utopia where nobody is held accountable). Also spoofed: special interests (The NRA's true goal: let the Blacks have enough guns to kill each other off. Planned Parenthood's true goal: mandatory abortions), the media (featuring a picture of Howard Beale from Network: could the allusion be more obvious?), and the electoral college (easy enough target). The book is in mock third-grade textbook form, and the humor is tongue in cheek and should be familiar to any viewer of the Daily Show, except with a few more expletives. <br /> <br />Do yourself a favor: go out and get ahold of this book. It's really quite hilarious, and, ironically, more thought-provoking than the scores of partisan books that have become so proliferated recently.	2004-09-26
US	47303730	R3IFTD11Y8Z2SW	0060938455	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Talk about a book that changes your perspective	As Americans we often see fast food as a benign institution that, aside from the health risks, exemplifies the wholsomeness of American capitalism. Schlosser, however, begs to differ. In this engaging book, he exposes the avarice of many businessmen at various levels of the fast food industry, the not-so-appetizing additives and ingredients of the food, how fast food's expansion has become a model for the modern economy, and even takes us into the Jungle-like slaughterhouse full of filth, crewed once again by immigrants, where the worst parts of the cow are once again thrown into the meat. <br />The ideal time has come for Schlosser's message to be heard. Although much of Schlosser's health caution in the book refers to E.coli, he does include an addendum on Mad Cow, which has become a bigger health risk since the discovery of Mad Cow in the United States. With the current crisis continuing, the book's important points become impossible to ignore, as this book actually predicted the Mad Cow outbreak (he noted how brain and spinal-column matter was fed to cows). Put simply, the time has come for all of us to reevaluate the fast food industry. A good place to start is with this book, which contains a wealth of information on the subject.	2004-01-15
US	47303730	R1CQ61XN9S95LQ	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Fantastic follow-up to 'Master'	Patrick O'Brian's Post Captain is an intoxicating adventure story that includes some genuine twists, an incredibly authentic feel, and truly multifaceted characters. It is also about 180 degrees from Master and Commander in terms of its story. The novel centers, of course, on Captain Jack Aubrey and Dr. Stephen Maturin, friends and naval officers in Napoleonic-era England. Lucky Jack, though, is not quite so lucky in this novel, as the prize money he earned for taking the Cacafuego in the previous novel is stolen by a venal prize-agent, leaving Jack in debt and avoiding his creditors and debtors' prison. He escapes to France, where war soon breaks out again, and Aubrey must escape internment. Finally, he gets back to England to put his affairs in order but has his promotion refused. As a consolation, though, he gets a command: the HMS Polychrest, known (nonaffectionately) as the Carpenter's Mistake, and crewed by a dangerously undisciplined crew. Meanwhile, Maturin tries to woo the Lady Diana Villiers, whose half-sister is infatuated with Jack. <br />This novel is, surprisingly, light on the long descriptions and definitions of sea travel that O'Brian seems so fond of, and centers more on the people. Only about half of the novel takes place on the high seas, and the other half takes place in various locales on England and Europe, the descriptions of nineteenth-century society are vivid and engrossing. The relationships come through here: Jack and Stephen, of course, are the center. Their relationship takes a number of turns in this installment, including a near duel! Fortunately they sort it out. Jack's dealings with his crew, his society friends, and Maturin's treatment of officers in the Portsmouth hospital are revealing indeed.<br />My only complaint is that the book can be difficult to follow. The scenery can change and hours can elapse without warning, an event can happen and only be mentioned in a throwaway comment that might be overlooked. With so much happening it can be difficult to know what exactly is going on. That said, the book is an otherwise fascinating and thrilling narrative, certainly worth a look if you enjoyed 'Master'.	2004-01-07
US	47303730	R27BOXVEQ19LC2	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Great Sea Story	I remember reading this book years ago and thinking that it would make a great movie, but thinking that the best O'Brian fans could hope for would be an A&amp;E miniseries. The impending release of the big-budget blockbuster that bears the name of this book will undoubtedly be a success, although, from what I've heard, it little resembles the book. Message: if you like the movie and think the book will be more of the same, you will probably be mildly surprised.<br />This book, the first in a large series, is a series of adventures during the Napoleonic wars. What distinguishes these books from, say, Horatio Hornblower, is that these books show both the successes and failures of their characters, as well as propagating themes other than duty and honor (although those themes aren't ignored). The friendship between Aubrey and Maturin, I have long maintained, is one of the most convincing in all of literature. In the first installment, though, my favorite character was that of Lieutenant James Dillon, a conflicted Irish first officer to Aubrey. Although he eats it a little after halfway through the novel, his moral conundrums make him perhaps the most sympathetic and admirable character of all, and his death summons up surprising emotional power. The book features a real you-are-there quality, dripping with authenticity. I admit, it takes a while to get used to, but I wouldn't have it any other way. The writing here is sublime, and all of the elements work impeccably.<br />In short, this book is perhaps the best adventure set during one of the most turbulent times in history. Adventure with a message. I guess it just isn't done this well anymore.	2003-11-15
US	47303730	R34YYIQUPO7S9O	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Good read but not his best	I have always been a huge fan of Michael Crichton. He is, in my mind, the most versatile and interesting writer of popular science fiction I know, and he is always able to make his stories so multidimensional. Sphere was many things: a suspenseful tale, a look at a perilous environment, and a fascinating metaphysical examination. While this book is more like Congo than Sphere, it still has plenty of cutting-edge science and more than enough suspense to keep anyone reading.<br />The story goes something like this: Jack Forman, former software manager and current stay-at-home dad, is baffled by his wife's recent odd behavior, suspecting she's having an affair. When he is asked to assist in the project his wife has been working on, he jumps at the chance, but his notions are soon dispelled as he discovers that there are intelligent swarms of nano-organisms on the loose. The book centers on the efforts he undertakes to stop these micro-baddies, who are able to adapt and come up with new tactics at an alarming rate.<br />The writing is excellent, as always, and Crichton is certainly on top of his game in writing a suspense story. It is a story that also asks interesting questions about the future of artificial life. Ultimately, it doesn't become greater than this, though. Sphere was philosophy, Disclosure was social criticism, and those were his best books. In any case, it's good to read another elegant page turner by this very capable writer.	2003-11-13
US	47303730	R37DU14WQ2PKYX	0060188707	655554658	Don Quixote	Books	5	273	292	N	N	Quintessential Masterpiece of European Literature	I have read this book both in English and Spanish, and I can honestly say that it loses very little of its power, wit or message in translation. For all those who have considered reading this book, here are a few good reasons: this book is a very nuanced look at escapism and identity, a wonderful parody of knight stories, along with being a rousing (and very funny) adventure centering around the titular hero, a man who reads one too many books about knighthood and chivalry and decides to become a knight-errant himself. After recruiting a sidekick and choosing a lady to woo per narrative convention, he sets out to conquer the forces of evil, which include, among other things, giant windmills and rogue \\"knights\\". Cervantes' insight and ability to parody were both ahead of his time, and in a time where escapism and voyeurism are well and thriving, it is not difficult to imagine someone watching too many TV shows and believing they're a wild west outlaw or what-have-you. A very fascinating experience, and it works well in any language. Highly recommended.	2003-11-03
US	47303730	R2RKM2TXNOREN5	0764526464	669924031	Beginning Programming with Java For Dummies (For Dummies (Computers))	Books	5	106	109	N	N	Excellent for the no-experience programmer	If you have had experience programming in other languages, then this book is not for you. It takes things slowly but surely, demonstrating the basic tenets of programming as well as the specifics of Java. I read it before taking an introductory computer science course and it really put me ahead of almost all of the other students (and I had no real programming experience). <br />Basically, this book was written for the novice. If novice is too generous a term for you, then this book will be perfect. Even if you only thought Java was another name for coffee and only use a computer to word-process on and want to pick up a hobby or perhaps a job skill, you will benefit from this book. The author, Barry Burd, really knows his stuff. He is able to explain such complicated conceptual areas such as objects, classes and arrays better than my CS 101 prof. He also keeps it lively if things get too abstract by analogies and often throws a joke in a section. The book, as a result, is somewhat entertaining in addition to being informative. He uses language that any lay person could easily understand (but if you want to read this because you are going into a computer science class, it's a good place to start, but you will need another book to help you learn the terminology).<br />In spite of the stigma attached to the &quot;For Dummies&quot; book series (at least it's not as bad as &quot;The Complete Idiot's guide&quot;), this is a book written for people who just want to get to know the language and write some simple programs (or more). I would highly recommend it to anyone getting started here, as well as Java 2 by the same author.	2003-10-20
US	47303730	R2MWYOQRZY01SA	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Eye-opening Introduction to String Theory	If you have ever found yourself wondering about the seemingly unapproachable mysteries of quantum mechanics and string theory, you need look no further than Brian Greene's The Elegant Universe. An enlightening introduction to the most mysterious branch of knowledge in all the world, this book is written specifically for the lay person and consists of straightforward instruction on the two vastly divergent theories of how the universe works: general relativity and quantum mechanics. It is well written and not dryly academic. It has the potential to become a great piece of popular nonfiction.<br />In this book Greene explains away many of the mysteries of physics, illuminates the uncertain science of quantum mechanics (in which he quotes Richard Feynman by saying that nobody understands quantum mechanics), provides vivid pictures of conceptually impossible ideas to understand (extra dimentions, sub-atomic particles) and adds in some personal tales and anecdotes to make the work also examine how the scientific method works in physics.<br />In short, this is a book that will answer some of your questions if you find physics fascinating but are daunted by equations that take up three blackboards. I would recommend it.	2003-10-19
US	47303730	R2ITNEP7Y2GHFW	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One of the greatest books ever written	I have been enraptured by this novel for a few weeks now, and I can safely say that it is definitely on the short list of the greatest books ever made. Now, I know, you might be tempted to write off reading the book (it's well in excess of a thousand pages) in favor of seeing the movie or watching the musical. However, having seen both, I can say that although both are great, they are based on the book, and as such, they must necessarily lack some of the material in the book. As an illuminating, cathartic, fascinating, poignant, and grand book in every sense of the word, one would be hard-pressed to do better than Les Miserables.<br />I know that books over a thousand pages daunt most people. The truth is, it mostly goes by quickly. There are a number of intersecting storylines, revolving around Jean Valjean, a good and honorable man brutally punished for a minor offense, and his arch-enemy Javert who sees him as less than human for stealing a loaf of bread and a gold coin. There are so many interesting personae in this tale: Marius, the melancholy romantic (and Hugo stand-in), Cosette, who develops an incredibly close connection with Valjean, the evil Thenardiers (some might not go that far, but I would), and more. There are so many characters here that the novel greatly resembles War and Peace, and the parallels are uncanny. More on that later.<br />As for the book itself, one couldn't ask for a better prose writer. Hugo's writing (even through translation) is clear and simple, yet can be eloquent as well. There is a profound quote or observation about every five pages, and his story unfolds at a perfect pace. The characters are often differing shades of gray rather than black and white: Valjean is a good man, and very sympathetic, but he can be selfish (as is evidenced when he is worried about Cosette falling in love with a man because he would be lonely). Javert is an unconscionable psychotic when it comes to tracking down Valjean, but he is not completely evil,as his quest is motivated for his search for justice. By this admission, he does have some integrity. All of the characters except Thenardier are very complicated and interesting, as well as tragic in their own specific ways. And in all of this, Hugo should be commended.<br />This book is similar to the quintessential Russian epic War and Peace by Tolstoy, of course. Both describe a dangerous and pivotal time in their respective countries, which are roughly situated at the same time in history. Both have the same honesty and penetrating insight, as well as scope and emotional impact. Both have the same flaws. Hugo (as well as Tolstoy) tends to digress from his story quite often in order to make some point about man or society, and both tend to tell long stories that have little to do with their plots. Hugo gives plenty of extraneous information, not to say that it is bad writing or uninteresting from the reader's point of view, but it is this meandering focus that hurts the novel (although some would contend that it enriches it). The fighting at Waterloo, while exciting and fascinating, amounts to over 60 pages, of which only a handful convey essential story information. There is another section covering the inner workings of a convent that goes on and on (and can just be skipped -- the actual content that takes place in the convent is less than the buildup). The stylistic convention of the time was to pause occasionally from the narrative to make an observation about humanity. Although this adds great philosophical merit to the work, sometimes we wish that Hugo would just get on with it, much like Tolstoy. It makes one wonder if they ever met. One could make the case, though, that the book's flaws make the story more appealing: it makes mistakes, just like its characters, and becomes more endearing because of them.<br />This is a book that is considered one of the greatest artistic triumphs in history for good reason. Read the book and understand.	2003-10-15
US	47303730	R3OKMMHEBEHJCK	0743262174	59017278	Cry, the Beloved Country	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Heartbreaking tale of rich/poor differences	This is the second Oprah's Book Club selection that I have read, although, like the first, I read it a few years back before that appellation was added. I was just expecting a sad story and some social commentary. I had no idea of the pathos and bitter irony that Paton would be able to wring from this ostensibly simple tale of fathers and sons. As far as African Literature goes, and I am by no means an expert, I would consider this the best novel that I have read, Achebe withstanding.<br />The story is centered on Reverend Stephen Kumalo, a Black Anglican Minister in a rural South Africal tribal community. He departs to look for his son Absalom quickly in the novel. The first part deals with his search in Johannesburg, which exposes some miserable and excruciating injustices to the native population. He is accompanied by a fellow minister, the Reverend Msimangu, a more liberal but nevertheless devoted preacher. We also meet John Kumalo, a leader for Black rights who has nevertheless become corrupt in his work. As Kumalo looks for his son he is exposed to these conditions for the first time, having never been out of his insular farming community before. Some of his observations are truly shocking.<br />The novel really picks up in the second part, when we discover what has happened of Absalom: he has killed a white man named Jarvis who was an idealist and fought for Black rights fiercely. This is where we meet his more bigoted father, James Jarvis, a rich farm owner who sees his bigotry validated when his son dies at the hands of a man he wanted to help. However, as Jarvis examines his son's writings and how he lived, he begins a powerful movement toward the idealism of his son. This corresponds with Kumalo's crisis over his son being a murderer. The most powerful moment is the brief conversation between Jarvis and Kumalo, which drips of conflict but nevertheless ends in closure and understanding.<br />The novel ends powerfully as well. Jarvis ends up giving a sizable portion of his fortune to help Kumalo's impoverished farmers, Absalom is (inevitably) executed for his offense, and the novel ends with Kumalo contemplating his life on the top of a mountain while the sun goes down, a fascinating juxtaposition of symbolism that wraps up an intriguing novel quite nicely.<br />This novel tackles a plethora of themes, most notably the relationships between fathers and sons, the rift between White and Black, rich and poor, and the proud and the fearful in both mid-twentieth century Africa (which would shortly make Apartheid an official policy) and in all society. It also shows how people will willing to sacrifice many things and live in fear instead of fixing the enormous social problems they face. What results is a devastating little novel about what happens in a post-imperialist society, which is as senseless as is is poignant. This is a book that is often required reading of High School students (it was for me) but it is a first step in understanding what happens in such societies, abroad and here. This book has a ring of bitter truth to it and is unforgettable without being lurid. A must read for anyone who thinks they know what injustice means but has never experienced it.	2003-09-30
US	47303730	R13J7Y436X85CR	140004961X	21589592	The Onion Ad Nauseam: Complete News Archives Volume 14	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Fake News is Back	The Onion is one of the most consistently hilarious publications ever made. With a combination of cynicism and erudition and a seemingly endless creative ability the writers of the Onion constantly churn out stories that make fun of our country, leaders, way of life, beliefs and more for the truly best of intentions: To make us laugh.<br />The latest installment includes a year's worth of comic gold. One of my favorite articles is the one about America's King returning from exile. Great stuff. For anyone who likes high-minded humor that one doesn't necessarily need to be 'high-minded' to love, I would recommend this and all the other Onion books. Regardless of your politics, religion, race, etc. you will surely find some great stories in here.	2003-09-29
US	47303730	R34DCTM3PAU8X9	0812694090	523795365	Seinfeld and Philosophy: A Book about Everything and Nothing	Books	4	47	50	N	N	A fascinating book	Seinfeld and Philosophy is a book with an interesting premise: it examines various philosophical issues raised by the phenomenally popular sitcom Seinfeld. The conceit is to examine the show that examined the minutia, the trivia of everyday life and to analyze certain aspects of the show from a philosophical standpoint. Thus, those of us who like both subjects have William Irwin to thank for this book, which is essentially a collection of essays from contemporary philosophers about Seinfeld.<br />The book includes 14 essays, organized into four &quot;acts&quot;, most of which are good. The first act centers mostly on the primary characters. There is one for each main character. Jerry is compared to Socrates and George to a &quot;Virtueless man&quot; of Aristotle. The weakest essay, perhaps, is the one examining if Elaine is a feminist. The strongest essay concerns Kramer and Soren Kierkegaard's Asthetic Stage of Life. Although I am not entirely familiar with the man's work, the essay lays out the central principles of Kierkegaard's theory and ties it all together perfectly.  Act II contains specific analogies between Seinfeld and the work of Nietzsche, Sartre, Lao Tzu, and Wittgenstein. Act III has a fascinating essay on George's choice to do &quot;the opposite&quot;, another on Peterman and reality in the media, and a weak essay on the &quot;significance of the insignificant&quot; which purports to know the secret of Seinfeld's humor but never tells it. The final act tackles the moral and ethical backgrounds of the four and also examines whether the law used to convict the four (the Good Samaritan Law) deserved to be on the books.<br />Any Seinfeld fan will appreciate this wonderful book, even if they have no philosophical background. The book allows fans to look at their show at a different angle. Similarly, fans of philosophy will not be disappointed. Most of the major philosophical figures of history are covered here, including Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Lao Tzu and a smattering of Eastern philosophy, Nietzsche, Sartre, Wittgenstein, Kant and others. This is basically an appetizer plate for those who like Seinfeld have an interest in philosophy and but don't know where to start. This is worth buying for the more bookish variety of Seinfeld fans.	2003-08-27
US	47303730	R1N2T9GH7RD1FK	0767904427	522587403	Going After Cacciato	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Hallucinatory, Surreal, Brilliant	Of all the books that I have read on the Vietnam War, this is the only one that truly captures the mindset of insanity that makes it a worthy Vietnam testament. Going After Cacciato is an incredible novel, Tim O'Brien artfully interweaves fact and fiction, fantasy and reality, past and present, appearance and truth all so seamlessly that it seems only natural. It is a totally unique novel.<br />The novel is about an idealistic soldier, Cacciato, who one day decides to leave the war. He abandons his post and heads off to Paris. Then the story becomes more surreal as his squad pursues him through the streets of Mandalay and Delhi and through Kabul and Tehran as they all get closer to deliverance. Meanwhile, the protagonist, Paul Berlin, recalls how things used to be when a young lieutenant was in charge of the brigade, as well as everything from childhood to one particular night on the observation post. The plot begins to play with reality to an increasing extent, but the story remains engaging to the end.<br />One wonderful thing about this book is its absolute recollection of the life of a soldier. In a book like this that exposes the reader to the true life of a soldier, the details must be present and plausible, and being as O'Brien was a veteran, it is safe to assume that they are, in fact, realistic. However, his insight leads to an intense examination of the life and mindset of a soldier. The soldiers in the story talk like soldiers, but they just seem like real people with a horrible burden thrust upon their shoulders. Also, O'Brien's writing is delightful. Speaking from a purely syntactical standpoint, the way he crafts his sentences is a pleasure to read, even if it describes something horrible in Paul's life.<br />Although it is not strictly a war novel, the essence of the war is conveyed throughout. Required reading for anyone wanting to understand the war, or see the perfection of the craft of writing.	2002-11-04
US	47303730	R3R792SUM2FN9I	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Only Vonnegut Could Pull It Off	This is an excellent book that examines the nature of war, its horrors, both psychological and physical, and about Time Travel and Tralfamadore. Whether or not Billy's experiences there are real or not is open to interpretation, it is just an extension of showing his isolation.<br />This book follows no plot and is continually switching time periods. It allows Vonnegut to make his book as diametrically opposite from any other war novel as possible. The very structure of the book seems to deemphasize war. In effect, this makes the story a strange and wonderful creation, needless to say powerful. The story follows Billy Pilgrim (note the name: it is critical to two aspects of his character). Pilgrim is an awkward young man sent to fight in World War II. Yet, the story also follows his experiences in a hospital after the war with an old eccentric named Rosewater, his experience as an opthomologist, his relationship with his family, and, finally, his delusions of Tralfamadore. Certain aspects are included later, such as his dad throwing him into a YMCA swimming pool.<br />This is a novel where nothing is as it seems. At first, it looks as if Billy is doing fine after the war. He lives comfortably, has a profitable practice, and seems happy. Yet, he is tormented by many things, experiences he can't get over, and finally the Tralfamadore visions. A masterfully written novel by Vonnegut.	2002-04-23
US	47303730	R1OKJGIBT4O4V6	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Gritty and Realistic, Suffers from Excessive Exposition	Hemingway's A Farewell To Arms is often hailed among his best works and is often called the best World War I novel. The latter I disagree with, as All Quiet was a more complex story about dehumanization and death, and the horrors of war; the former I would not know, as this is all I have read by Hemingway. As far as the novel goes, however, it is a fine account of life and death, love, glory, and loss. Its protagonist, Lt. Frederick Henry, is an Italian Army ambulance driver. He meets a British nurse, they share an affair, and Henry even decides to desert for Catherine. Despite its longevity, this book is a poignant look at a doomed affair, an examination of the futility of war, that are still timely today. I guess the only objection I have is the typical Hemingway deal: Hemingway and Fitzgerald were once friends, but the relationship suffered from mutual envy:  Fitzgerald envied Hemingway his success, Hemingway envied Fitzgerald's style. It is plain to see, when reading both of them, that Fitzgerald is clearly in his element in writing beautiful and moving pieces of literature, just like a bird singing. Hemingway's style is a bit more forced, and he likes to use a lot of exposition so as to make his imagery more vivid. None of this detracts from the substance of the story, yet the style is a substance all its own. In the Catcher in the Rye, Holden Caulfield, in a literary analysis, decided that The Great Gatsby is a far superior book than A Farewell To Arms for the sole reason that Henry is a phony. If you have read that book, you might be tempted to take this with a grain of salt, but when you consider Hemingway's background and the fact that he and Henry share initials, it is easy to assume Holden is talking about Hemingway himself, and that he is forcing his writing for success. The quote is Salinger accusing Hemingway of selling out. In any case, the book is not truly one of the best ever because of its failure to address any universal human truths. Nevertheless, it is an enduring and interesting book and, although I did not think it among the best ever, I have talked with some that loved it. I would suggest reading it for yourself, as you might think differently	2002-03-13
US	47303730	R3I8TKQKHWODKJ	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intricate and Timeless Examination of Society	Kesey's first book is widely regarded as his best and is a witty and subtle look at the \\"machinery\\" and \\"fog\\" that is society. Well written and very addictive, this book is ostensibly about mental patients in a ward dominated by an oppressive and evil nurse. Yet it is really an allegory on many levels. It works as a biblical allegory because, although R. P. McMurphy has a shady past and his behavior is by no means perfect, he does indeed try to set the men free by freeing their spirits. Throughout this book Kesey uses imagery and symbolism to drive home his point. The indellible image of McMurphy on a cross-shaped bed about to be shocked into submission further proves this. It works as a societal allegory. Nurse Ratched and Co. are the ruthless enforcers of an invisible code, their power coming from apathy (or ignorance) on higher levels, or it is given willingly because nobody else will get their hands dirty. There is a lot more to this book, it is an engrossing and memorable experience. If you are thinking of renting the movie instead, I actually would recommend seeing the film first. Why? Because, as is always necessary, the film preserves the same themes from the book and has virtuoso acting from everyone, especially Jack. The woman that they got to play Ratched is excellent too. If you watch the movie first, it works as a good intro to the deeper, more complex book. Anyway, this is a book with a message that is still relevant today and imagery that will envelop you as sure as diving into the deep end of a pool. Enjoy.	2002-03-13
US	47303730	R48742QXPMJ2E	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Says a lot, but it is dense reading	The Red Badge of Courage was written by Stephen Crane in 1895 and brought him great fame, although, unfortunately, he didn't enjoy it for very long, as he died five years later. This book was assigned reading for my English class. Crane is obviously a talented writer, and his ample writing skills bring color to the environment of this book, and his clever use of setting to convey the Youth's emotions is excellent and well implemented. It is one of the things that stood out to me while reading the book. Another is the rare use of proper nouns. Soldiers will be referred to by some characteristic or their rank, but rarely their name, e.g. \\"the young lieutenant,\\" \\"the tattered soldier,\\" etc. While this can make the story a bit harder to follow at certain junctures, it conveys how individuals are unimportant in war. The story itself is good:  Henry \\"the Youth\\" (in more ways than one) has enlisted in the Union Army, and is torn between anxiety and nervousness about fighting. Although his first engagement seems to show that he will be alright, he runs, facing certain annhilation, at least in his perception. But his side turns out victorious, and Henry is in trouble. He eventually concocts a wild story and falls in with his comrades, on to fight again, to its final conclusion. This book is very slow reading, though it is small. It is difficult to read and digest. Crane's use of slang is certainly an artistic choice, and adds to authenticity but detracts from enjoyment as you need to analyze the context of misunderstood words. Throughout most of the book, Henry's arrogance is at a high level, and this is rather annoying as well. In conclusion, this book has a lot to say, but it is not light or easy reading. But if you can just get through it, it is one of the most honest and true war stories ever told.	2002-01-14
US	47303730	R12DAEC2AI18I1	0316290467	764983778	Hornblower and the "Hotspur" (Hornblower Series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Little Known Hornblower Literary Interpretation	What does Hornblower symbolize? I analyzed a number of the novels and have found the answer: America! No, you say, can't be. Well, I will support my claim. In one of the books, I believe it was Lieutenant Hornblower but I am not sure, his birthdate is given as July 4, 1776. I am pretty sure of this, and in Hotspur the year is 1803, and Horatio is 27. Not only that, but Horatio is a more a symbol of American ideals than British. Just a common man becoming one of the most powerful men in the British Navy? But in America, this is not quite so farfetched. He also often thinks about inequality in the Navy and other 'subversive' things that seem perfectly natual in America, such as the abolition of prize money. In any case...<BR>The first two novels, Mr. Midshipman and Lieutenant Hornblower, were good books, but I thought the excellent films based off them pretty much encompassed everything (except Hornblower's down and out days at the end of Lt.). I hear that Hotspur will soon be made into movies in the series, and it will probably be the best yet. Horatio has been given command of a small ship, H.M.S. Hotspur, and has to deal with a cowardly steward, a French frigate twice his size, and the intracacies of espionage even before the fleet arrives. The departure of his friend Adm. Pellew and having no friends in the service, the taking of a Spanish telegraph station, a nighttime raid on French shipping all add to the mounting action. The crowning moment is when Horatio sacrifices great riches to protect the fleet. Horatio is the perfect role model, dashing, gallant, courageous. But he is also perpetually worrying, feeling inferior, and with doubts of his abilities. This is an excellent, action-packed book that also has many moral messages. I can't wait to move on to the Captain books, and I am also going to try Patrick O'Brian's books, as the films have made me slightly obsessed with this period and subject.	2002-01-14
US	47303730	R3MDARYECSW9NA	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Brilliant use of Language and Satire	This book is an amazing trip. Through the narration of Alex, a young miscreant, we see his transformation from free-roaming criminal to a thing, the botched result of a government experiment. The book is really good in the philosophical arguments it brings up: Can people be changed from bad to good without choice? What will society sacrifice to feel safe? Is humanity in the choice to be right? It is one of the most provocative novels I have ever read.<br />And that's just half of it. Burgess writes with an original prose that is used by Alex and his criminal buddies. This helps immensely to portray the graphic implications of their activities without actually being graphic. Even though we see the bad things he does, we still feel a connection with him and share in his pain in his treatment. Maybe it is his childlike glee or the fact that the people that are supposed to protect the public are far more insidious. A brilliant book, read it even if you've seen the film, because this book has another chapter which changes the end of the story and gives it a more hopeful tone.	2001-10-01
US	47303730	R4S4QHRZOR3W7	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Compelling and Funny, yet Disjointed	I have somewhat mixed feelings on this book. While is is a great study into the insanity of war and has many truly hillarious moments, this book just doesn't flow. You'll be reading about Yossarian's present problems and suddenly you will be reading about some incident that happened in the past, and there won't be so much as a transition, then you will be right back to the present. This is why I gave it 4 stars.<br />On the other hand, this is an excellent satire on war and its insanity, and is laugh-out-loud funny. The book follows a crazy bombardier named Yossarian who is uncanny for pointing out paradoxes and contradictions in the modern psyche. Yossarian wants to get out of the war, and he pursues several avenues, but is thwarted on one end by a neurotic, brown-nosing Colonel Cathcart, and on the other by the melancholy, and also neurotic, Doc Daneeka, who will not allow him to get of by reason of mental defect. I wish I could post a funny line that had me laughing, but there were really few individual lines like that. Mostly there were exchanges between Yossarian and the people he meets. This book is not beach reading: you have to really concentrate to see what's going on. But it was a fine read nonetheless.	2001-09-17
US	47303730	R1DJSQVC0CGG1E	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Heartbreaking Depression Story	This book brings one of the most inaccessible disasters of the 20th century, the Dust Bowl, into focus. What a mean coincidence that it had to happen when banks were going through tough times. This book, perhaps Steinbeck's best, brings the personal melodrama of Of Mice and Men on the road with a family of 14 Oklahomans. Meet the Joads, who have lived on the same land for many generations. They have killed for the land and have died for it. The bank has forclosed on the home loan, and they have been pushed out. Now they gather all they can carry with them, sell all they can't, and hit the road in a rickety car and with only about a hundred dollars and wild hopes. Grandma and Grampa are the stern, traditional voice of the family, Ma and Pa lead the family in their oddysey west, Uncle John is a booze hound with strength and grit, Noah is a strange individualist, Al is the testosterone filled young man, Tom is an ex-con who just happens to be the pragmatist and clearest thinker, Ruthie and Winfield are the wild kids, and Connie and Rose are newlyweds. I know I am forgetting someone. The book is divided into two parts: the journey to California and their heartbreaking quest to make a living. It just happens that they are members of an outcast society despised by everyone. Throughout the book they are run out of settlements, antagonized and harassed, and mistreated. A member of the oddysey is Jim Casy, a former preacher. Casy turns himself in for beating a deputy to keep Tom from getting turned in and in prison meets a man who wants to end the victimization of migrant workers. He wants to form unions. While protesting against a peach orchard (that the Joads just happen to be at) he is killed by corrupt deputies. The book is shattering in so many ways: the way the Joads are treated, how the migrants at large are treated by the cops and by the rich malevolents, and how the general people allowed themselves to be blinded by bitterness and hate. There are several deeply affecting passages: one where a bunch of oranges are dumped in a vacant area behind a Hooverville (where 'Okies' lived), then kerosene was dumped on them so that the impoverished Okies couldn't eat them; the part in which the deputies send in a starving guy to start a fight in a government camp so they can break it up (because the government camp is treating Okies like humans), one man owning a million acres and not even farming it, just owning it so he can say he owns it. These concepts of gluttony and cruelty are more than the poor migrants can take. I absolutely loved the book and think every person should read it: it shows what happens when ordinary people are hated, and how devastating and frivilous that hate can be.cting passages: one where a bunch of oranges are dumped in a vacant area behind a Hooverville (where 'Okies' lived), then kerosene was dumped on them so that the impoverished Okies couldn't eat them; the part in which the deputies send in a starving guy to start a fight in a government camp so they can break it up (because the government camp is treating Okies like humans), one man owning a million acres and not even farming it, just owning it so he can say he owns it. These concepts of gluttony and cruelty are more than the poor migrants can take. I absolutely loved the book and think every person should read it: it shows what happens when ordinary people are hated, and how devastating and frivilous that hate can be.	2001-09-04
US	47303730	R1QSGTH6TQ7P2K	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Most Important Book of the 20th Century	It is perfect and brilliant in all areas. 1984 is also one of the most misunderstood books of all time. It wasn't simply a Stalinist bash or a sequel to Animal Farm (philosophically, not literally). It was both those things, but it was, and is so much more. In a nightmarish future, Winston Smith is just an average citizen of Airstrip One. He works at the Ministry of Truth, he spends his evenings at the community center, he even helps his neighbor when the plumbing goes bad. Yet there is turmoil in Winston's mind. He hates Big Brother, he hates Oceania and Airstrip One, and he wants simply to be human. But in his society, these thoughts are a crime. Now Big Brother is a TV show, but here it is no entertainment: it demands your thinking. 1984 has been liberally borrowed from (the Command and Conquer video game series, The Matrix, that TV series, etc.) and is more than a political novel: to call it that narrows its scope. It is an inflection on humanity and the human spirit, and a look at that age-old dissenting philosophy. Yet the way O'Brien just attacks everything Smith believes in late in the book just makes you wonder about what you believe in. Truly monumental, and I can't write a review on a great work and stay coherent. Enjoy.	2001-09-04
US	47303730	R1FMWMOY7EIW9A	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Definitive Account of the Holocaust	Wiesel's account is a powerful exploration of the Holocaust. A young Transylvanian ... lives a sheltered life. His family is wealthy and he is into religious dogma. Then comes the Nazi Wehrmacht to crush everything he assumes or believes in. First forced into a ghetto then into several concentration camps, his experiences grow more and more dark and depressing. His sister and mother are seperated from his dad and him, and are probably killed. Grueling work and no food are small problems, but the prisoners become monsters equivalent to the Nazis guarding them. Several passages, such as the son abandoning his father during a run so as not to be shot, and another son killing his father for a crust of bread, are among the most poignant in the book. Eventually the young boy forsakes God, becomes bitter and withdrawn, and, after many Jews are killed as examples and his father dies, he tries only to survive. This is a must for everyone to read, because if people are educated about hate and what it does to people, this might not happen again.	2001-08-16
US	47303730	RQXUO58EL8KT0	0446602698	278983300	The Juror	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Good, but not Brilliant	The Juror is a story of a mafia kingpin's trial and the hell it causes for a single mother named Annie Laird. She lives at home with her son, sculpts all night and works as a clerk all day. One day she is selected as a prospective juror for the most famous case in the land. She wants some excitement in her life, so she agrees. Soon her life is twisted upside down by a seductive, powerful man known as the Teacher. She must vote to acquit the mob boss if she wants her friends and son to live. The story doesn't end with the trial. The Teacher still wants her after it is over, and when she betrays him, he wants blood. The reason this book is so good is because of its characters. You can feel the characters resonating off the page. The Teacher with his reserved fury, Annie and her fear and determination. The book grabs you in. It is not perfect, it has a couple of tedious and repetitious sexual references and passages. Anyway, this is a powerful book, and very plausible. Very original. Check it out.	2001-07-31
US	47303730	R2KHVUOK3H6MG1	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the Finest American Books	This is one of the most popular books of the 20th century: it is in the top three. And with good reason, it is an excellent story, but it is a bit slow-paced. This book describes the trials and tribulations of a young Southern girl and her family during the middle of the century. It is told from the point of view of Jean Finch, whose father Atticus is representing a black man in a rape case. She is threatened and called names, just to name a few, but she never loses hope. It is one of those books that everybody can take something out of, it is an inspiring and invigorating book.	2001-07-27
US	47303730	RDNM3O4C1WK4L	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Cover Is Not False Advertising	This truly is the greatest war novel ever written. It covers all of the horrors and fruitlessness of war in an appealing and amazing fashion. The story is about German soldier Paul Baumer, who is caught up in the patriotic zeal of his classmates and signs up for WWI. Through the novel he shares his tale of humanity lost, lives forever shattered, and a longing for an impossible thing, to return home. This book was in fact based on Remarque's experiences as a soldier in that war. Even translated, the language is colorful and adds greatly to the experience. Unlike nowadays \\"war\\" productions like Pearl Harbor, you get a sense of the spirit of war, the face of it. -m-	2001-07-25
US	47303730	RBY7RO99WSA5B	0684818949	59017278	Cry, The Beloved Country	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Culture Shock In Apartheid South Africa	Paton's acclaimed tale about a pastor in Johannesburg looking for his son is South Africa's finest literature. Kumalo's struggle with faith in man, in god, and in himself is a compelling look at what happens when fear and hate dictate what happen in any government or group. In addition to describing the evil apartheidist regime, it lays bare the fundamental spirit of man. Paton apparently fashioned his novel from The Grapes of Wrath, and while it is tedious at times, it is a valuable historical document and a wonderful story, and important too.	2001-07-25
US	47303730	R3FN7FF3B3WLCB	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Grisham's Best Novel	Grisham packs more suspense and complexity into this novel than any of his previous ones. This courtroom thriller takes us into the biggest tobacco case of the century, which is directly related with the scam of the century. The mysterious Nicholas and cunning Marlee are running the show now, and they promise to deliver the perfect verdict for the tobacco companies. Their price: ten million dollars. But as their mysterious past is revealed, we are forced to wonder exactly what their intentions truly are. This book examines the entire tobacco industry, from the lobbyists to the execs, and it succeeds on all levels. You might be tempted to turn to the end to see how it all turns out, but you wouldn't dare think of putting it down. Outstanding.	2001-07-25
US	47303730	R1G90TRSA3WRZ2	0451526341	380925201	Animal farm: A Fairy Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Entertaining Tale of Human Nature	Animal Farm is the tale of opression and totalitarianism that made George Orwell the major political author of his day. It is a prequel to 1984, although the characters are different in the books, Animal Farm tells of how a tyrant can come to power, while 1984 tells of what happens when that power is firmly in place. The story goes like this. Mr. Jones is the human master of Manor Farm, a place where all animals are misfed, mistreated, and wanting a change. An old pig, Major, stirs the animals into action to start their own rule. But when this happens and Napoleon takes control, conditions return to the way they were, opression as the pigs grow fat and the other animals starve, the pigs break the commandments the revolution was founded on, and the animals can not revolt or even speak their mind. This book is very ambiguous except for on one thing: When freedom is taken away, tyranny is inevitable. This is an awesome book.	2001-07-22
US	47303730	RXJM4UG5NICTO	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Harrowing Tale of Stalin-Age Work Camps	Stalin gets off easy in the annals of history for his butchery, probably because he fought with the U.S. against Hitler. But this book will make people think a little differently. Stalin was a man who killed nearly 100 million of his own people, ostensibly in the name of security, but the real reason lies in paranoia and power-hunger. This is a tragic story by a man who experienced the same thing. Solzhenitsyn spent time in a Soviet labor camp because he made a derogatory comment about Stalin. But Ivan Denisovich Shukhov's crime is even less. He is captured by Germans in World War II but escapes to Russian lines. Instead of being decorated, he is caught in one of Stalin's witch hunts and is labeled a German spy. He confesses to a crime he did not commit, and is given 10 years hard labor. One Day chronicles his life in the camp. It is a story you will not soon forget. This short volume tells of the back-breaking work, the cruel injustices, and ultimately denounces Stalin. If the book had been published ten years earlier Solzhenitsyn would most likely have been killed. But Krushchev allowed it to be published. Along with Doctor Zhivago it stands as one of the greatest pieces of Soviet Literature ever written, still as powerful today as it was when published in 1962.	2001-07-19
US	47303730	R2Y9BOXPAQTSD7	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Great Read, But Not Perfect	I gave Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby a shot recently outside of school. There are both things I love about the book and things that I found a little tedious. On the positive side, I enjoyed the social insight, the lyricism, the story in general. Fitzgerald was truly blessed with the gift of words, and the use of imagery gives this classic much staying value. It is just so real it comes alive in your head. The story of Jay Gatsby, who has grown wealthy (on the shady side of the law as it turns out) and his love for Daisy Buchanan is still affecting today. I disliked how it took a while for the story to get really moving, it was a little tedious sometimes. But don't let that spoil it for you. Read this book.	2001-07-18
US	47303730	RPEQHYPAWCRPG	0671008846	836520037	Dark Victory (Star Trek)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Okay, What Happened In This Book Again?	It's not that I didn't enjoy this book, I have enjoyed the entire series. It is just that it is the most forgettable of all of the series. It lacks the humor and action of the preceding book, and the brilliance of the next one. I skimmed through it and came to the conclusion that it was just a bridge from Spectre to Preserver. It simply didn't do it for me. But hey, that's me.<BR>-m-	2001-07-12
US	47303730	R1AORTWIZCEIMR	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Get To The War and Save The ....	The last quarter of this book is the most entertaining. The war between China and Russia is exciting and devastating, probably the most memorable sequence Clancy has ever committed to paper. There is still the problem of the first three-quarters, though. Anybody seen Police Academy? How about any of the sequels? This feels like that. Clancy's earlier books have been entertaining, even memorable (but not serious literature, don't even think so), but this is \\"Red Storm Rising 2\\". The first three-quarters features a couple of decent subplots but more often bad ones. The investigation subplot with the FBI agent and Russian cop was one of the entertaining and interesting ones, but hearing Ryan gripe for page after page about how tough it was to run the country and how the Asian economy was going down the tubes and on and on, etc. was boring and repetitive, to say the least. The subplot with CIA man Nomuri creating a sexual liason with a Chinese secretary was just an excuse for attracting the male testosterone crowd with some lewd, perversive writing. Even though Ryan is a great man, formerly a marine and a patriot, I still have trouble believing he could be elected to the presidency as an Independent. I don't have anything against Independents, I am one. But this country is too much split down party lines. And I would have bet Ryan was a Republican. After all, in Executive Orders he said he was pro-life, and a reporter remarked his appointments to the Supreme Court were very conservative, none on Fowlers' and Durlings' list (I had them figured for Democrats), Republicans like the military getting more money (He was an ex-marine), he had a bunch of guns in his house in Patriot Games, plus he was rich. I think that Ryan is now a mouthpiece for Clancy's right-leaning politics, even though he says he is an Independent.	2001-07-12
US	47303730	R2236XKXBM62JK	0140444300	996904481	Les Miserables (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Like A French War and Peace	There are similarities between the two books. Les Mis and War and Peace depict the same era, both are long and satisfying reads, and both were published in the 1860s. I, however, enjoyed this book more than War and Peace. Its style and characters are legendary, and the translation is excellent, I would recommend the Penguin classic edition. The story is well-known: Jean Valjean is sent to prison for 19 years for stealing a loaf of bread, a gendarme named Javert pursues him while he tries to escape his past. There is also the story of Fantine and Cosette, a mother fallen from fortune and her daughter. The descriptions of such events as the July revolution and the Paris Sewers are unforgettable, this is probably the greatest French novel ever written. So, its long. Big deal. Buy it and read it, it is worth it. -m-	2001-07-12
US	47303730	RANQBFA6JVXSR	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Immortal Teenage Novel	This is a great tale of the alienation of youth and it examines that which we hold dear in society. Holden Caulfield is the protagonist, a sixteen year-old expelled from school for apathy, but he is intelligent, and picks up on many inconsistencies and hypocracies in society. This is two days from his life, and it is edgy and entertaining after all these years. Brilliant writing.	2001-07-12
US	47303730	R1BT7QJHLL99VP	0679774386	538008197	Doctor Zhivago	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Definitive Work of 20th Century Russian Fiction	As far as Russian literature in this last century goes, this is the best work I have seen. Doctor Zhivago does for the Communist Revolution what War and Peace did for Napoleon's invasion. There can be many comparisons made between the two books. Zhivago's story starts with the suicide of his father, who squandered the family fortune, and moves on from there to the revolution. No punches are pulled here: we see many shockinge effects of that event. Zhivago and his family leave Moscow to avoid the bloodshed and needless deaths, but he heads to more of the same, eventually becoming conscripted into the Red Army against his will to help with medicine. There is also Lara, Zhivago's love, who brings Zhivago to carry on. The decision to release this book was a gutsy one by Pasternak, but it paid off. This is the definitive epic of Soviet literature, and it comes highly recommended by me.	2001-05-15
US	47303730	R8VNZ7G2UDNX5	044022165X	511419057	The Rainmaker	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, But Disappointing Ending	The Rainmaker tells the story of Rudy Baylor, a poor law student, who is optimistic about his life. Then his possibility of getting a job disappears, he is forced to declare bankruptcy, and his girlfriend leaves him for a wealthy student. Grisham's sixth novel is much different than the first five. He tries out telling the story in the first person, a difficult thing to do, and pulls it off pretty well. The character of Rudy is a good accomplishment, but the ambulance-chasing Deck left a powerful impression, as did the dying Donny Ray. This is fine reading, but there are a couple of problems as I see it. First, there is absolutely no doubt that the jury will find for Rudy. The courtroom scenes, while humorous, were not quite as compelling as I had hoped. Second, Grisham breaks Mark Twain's rule about writing, &quot;Don't say the fat lady screamed. Bring her out and let her scream.&quot; This has always been a factor in his writing, but it seems more blatant here because it happens in courtroom scenes. I didn't like this. I also thought the ending was a bit of a disappointment. Overall, though, it was a fine book.	2001-05-10
US	47303730	RL3A2LANIIJZ9	0440220602	233513923	The Chamber	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Vivid, Provocative Experience	The Chamber is one of the most provocative novels I have read, and I ranks among Grisham's best. The story is about two men from different worlds: Sam Cayhall is a KKK member and a bigot, and Adam Hall, his Grandson, is a liberal Chicago lawyer. Hall takes Sam's case to try to get him off death row. He will be challenged by the Governor, the Attorney General, his own firm, Sam's former accomplice and now a fascist leader, and his alcoholic aunt. This book's study on the gas chamber really made me think about it and helped to change my stance on the issue. There was also an illusion to another of Grisham's books, A Time To Kill, and this book had a similar air to it as that book. It is by far the longest of Grisham's books, but it is worth the time.<BR>-m-	2001-04-25
US	47303730	R2OLE22HD88VM7	038542471X	282981210	The Client	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Full of Suspense	There is plenty of suspense in this book, and it is very entertaining, one of my favorite Grisham novels. The protagonist, Mark Sway, is 11 and his life has been anything but easy. One day, he goes out into the woods near his house and witnesses the suicide of the lawyer of a man wanted for the murder of a US Senator, and the man tells him the location of the body. Suddenly Mark is surrounded by snakes:  the mob who want him quiet, and the prosecutors who want him to talk. His only ally is Reggie Love, a lawyer in her fifties who will fight for Mark and his family until the end. This is an electrifying reading experience and I read it in three days. Even if you do not like Grisham I think you should read this book.	2001-04-16
US	47303730	R3JOS9022BOTJP	0451183665	239863830	A Case of Need	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ER Meets The Godfather	This is one of Crichton's best books, and it is also one of the most technical. There is lots of medical abbreviations and lingo, but it is mostly all explained. The protagonist, John Berry, is a pathologist who carries out an investigation to discover the truth about the death of a young girl to protect his friend, a radical doctor who performs illegal abortions. On the way he is threatened by the patriarch or a powerful medical family who wants the truth to remain a mystery so that he can save embarassment. The stance on issues such as abortion seems a little dated, but all the arguments are familiar, just now society is on the other side of the coin. I couldn't stop reading this compelling book, and I loved every minute of it. If you liked The Andromeda Strain, Five Patients or The Terminal Man, you will like this book.	2001-04-04
US	47303730	R3E387Y9TONJSI	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Original Masterpiece With Something For Everybody	I was immediately intrigued with the premise behind Robert Harris' novel Fatherland. What would have happened if Hitler's Germany had won World War II? The reader is taken to Berlin, 1964, which has become a sort of Shangra-la for Europe. U.S. President Kennedy has agreed to come to Berlin for a peace summit, and the capital is swarming with tourists and citizens ready to observe the 75th birthday of Hitler. During all this, though, the body of a high-ranking Nazi is washed up on a shore. Detective Xavier March, a former U-boat captain and SS Sturmbannfuhrer, is dispatched to investigate. His investigation uncovers an old conspiracy among high-ranking Nazis. March, who is not the cold, unhuman Nazi that is common in his country, teams up with an American Journalist, Charlotte Maguire, to find proof and escape alive.<br />There were many good things about this book. Its setting is very realistic and depressing, its characters range from the intrepid March to the evil Globus, a former Concentration Camp commander who is determined to end March's investigation, to Maguire, the journalist who wants the truth. Although I enjoyed the book very much, I would have liked more details on the resolution of the war, but this book will both frighten and delight. I loved this book and think that you will love it too.	2001-03-31
US	47303730	R3F6SJS406JHIV	0345378490	694344232	Congo	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining, Exciting	While not my personal Crichton favorite, this book is a good read and a page-turner, and it catches your attention like a mousetrap and doesn't let go until you hit the last page. ERTS is a company that secures resources for other companies for manufacturing and such. When an ERTS expedition looking for Boron-coated diamonds is lost under mysterious circumstances in the Congo, a second team is immediately dispatched by Karen Ross, a mathematical prodigy. It consists of Dr. Elliot, an established zoologist and his gorilla, Amy, who understands English and uses sign language. Next is Charles Munro, a former mercenary to the Congo who adds dry logic to the team. From the start, the expedition has problems: a rival group sabotages the ERTS group, two members are held for drug possession, a war in the Congo shorts out their plans for a paradrop over the area, cannibals cause problems, a volcano, and, of course, the menacing gray gorillas. This has been criticized by others, but I found it a compelling plot device, especially why they are trying to kill the team. I also liked the incorporation of the Star Wars program as the reason for looking for the diamonds. If you like other Crichton books like Jurassic Park and Timeline, you will enjoy this book, even though the dated technology brings it down a bit.	2001-03-29
US	47303730	R181QL58CVGW3	0192833952	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It Still Has A Great Impact	This book, The Count of Monte Cristo, is an engrossing tale of loyalty, revenge, and obsession that can still teach lessons today. Edmond Dantes seems set for life:  the young man is now the captain of a ship, his best friends are his father and his boss, Morrel, and he is set to be married to a beautiful girl named Mercedes. But two men, Danglars and Fernand, are jealous of him for different reasons (Danglars for his job, Fernand for his fiancee). This jealousy comes in the form of a conspiracy so that both will be benefited:  a letter is written saying that Dantes is a Napoleonic agent (he is not). He is further crossed by the ambitious magistrate de Villefort, who destroys the only piece of evidence because it implicates his father and sends him to prison, using the Napoleonic phobia of the time. While there, he meets the brilliant yet enigmatic Abbe Faria, who teaches him several languages and they collaborate on how to escape. The Abbe has an attack, he tells Dantes to leave without him, so he does. But before the Abbe dies, he tells Dantes about the magnificent treasure of Monte Cristo, and then the adventure begins as Dantes gets the treasure and lives extravagantly for a while, then he comes to pay vengeance to his enemies and rewards to his friends. This book is quite long, but I could not imagine it being shorter:  it is the perfect size for the story. This is one of the best books of all time for a reason, and I would highly recommend it to anybody interested in adventure.	2001-03-09
US	47303730	R3RIGKRZ2KUGSW	0440214041	859359548	The Pelican Brief	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Grisham In Fine Form	Two Supreme Court Justices have been murdered. Many people suspect that the acts were by multiple assassains, and can't find any reason for the crimes, but out of nowhere comes a theory that shakes up the White House and a demented millionaire. Darby Shaw's theory, which is called the Pelican Brief, says that Victor Mattiece, a businessman who contributed heavily to the campaign of the current president, conspired to have the men killed so that he could drill for oil, even though it would kill the brown pelicans that inhabit that area. This book simply can't be put down once you start to read it. This is in the style of Grisham's masterful suspense thrillers, like The Firm, and is a very enjoyable reading experience. Its political plotting and pacing are immaculate, and if you liked any of Grisham's other novels, you will love this book.	2001-03-04
US	47303730	R3RPVRQ6IW0R0A	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Great Coming of Age Tale, From An Unexpected Source	John Grisham has written many books about lawyers, trials, juries, courtrooms, etc. over the years, but he goes for a change of pace with this book. This exceptional novel tells the tale of seven year-old Luke Chandler, a farm boy from rural Arkansas. His family picks cotton for a living, and this year, 1952, seems like it will be the perfect harvest, bringing more money so that Luke's family can buy their land. But Luke's sterile existence is broken apart when he witnesses a killing and a murder, he learns things that he would rather have not known, and grows up because of it. People who are used to reading Grisham's legal thrillers might not be kept interested because of its slower pace, but they might be interested in the fact that this book is based on actual events from Grisham's childhood. We can identify with Luke as he is put in a position that adults wouldn't want to be put into, let alone a child. This is an awesome book and I would highly recommend it.	2001-02-28
US	47303730	R3F9FG0SOCWWEW	0804115486	335815295	Enigma	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Keeps You Reading, but A Little Slow	This book never reaches a frantic pace, but it is an engrossing and interesting look at one of the most important projects of World War II, Bletchley Park's interception and cracking of the Enigma code, which saved the lives of many naval officers during the war. Tom Jericho is the main character, and he is first introduced at Cambridge, taking a break after some kind of work-related breakdown. He is forced back into the saddle after the code becomes unbreakable again. While trying to crack the code, he must also investigate the disappearance of Claire, a colleague and former lover. We find out about their relationship through flashbacks by Tom, and he must collaborate with her former roommate to find out what happened. This book is slow for about three quarters, then it goes really fast once he deciphers some messages he finds in Claire's room. This is a pretty good book for WWII buffs, but I wouldn't necessarily recommend it to my friends, because they would crave faster, more tense books.	2001-02-24
US	47303730	R3CYP99YD3G6WF	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Absolutely Amazing	This book grabbed my attention from the first moment and held on to it until the end. Instead of being a predictable legal thriller, like some others I have read, this great murder mystery/legal thriller has plenty of twists and turns through its thick and nuanced plot. The story is set in Kindle County and is about Rusty Sabich, a man who seems set for life:  he has a lovely wife and son, a job in the Prosecuting Attorney's Office at which he excels, and a strong friendship with Detective Lipranzer of the KCPD. After a fellow PA is killed and Rusty is implicated, he must stake everything he holds dear to prove his innocence. After he is found not guilty, the book really gets interesting and it just can not be put down. The ending, though is ambiguous and is open to the interpretation of the reader, testing how well they think they know the characters. I enjoyed this book very much and I think that Turow is a better writer than John Grisham, although the books of the latter always absorb me because of their excellent plots. I would recommend this book to anybody.	2001-02-22
US	47303730	RH9YKXDL6P5DG	0345358791	363379837	2061: Odyssey Three	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not As Good As Either Prequel, But It Works	2061 is the third book of the odyssey series, and it doesn't live up to the previous two, but those are tough acts to follow. 2061 is decent, lively science fiction suceeding 2010, and picks up 51 years after the story. We catch up with Heywood Floyd, age 103, who has been exiled to space because of a fall on Earth. Floyd has been selected to go on a mission to land on Halley's Comet. The mission just begins to get interesting as the team is pulled out to rescue another ship which has crash landed on Europa, the forbidden planet. The things that bring this book down are the fact that Hal and Bowman only have a cameo appearance. When the rescue attempt itself is mounted, there is no fighting from either being. This book is slower than 2010 and does not have the same feeling of adventure and excitement that the others had. There is an explanation about the strange Mt. Zeus near the end, but what about the lights on Halley's? That could have been really interesting. Overall, this book manages to stay a fine sequel to 2010, definitely not better, but not as bad as some of the other reviewers say it is.	2001-02-22
US	47303730	R1KN66GZ73QCLC	0345303067	940144736	2010: Odyssey Two	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Better Than 2001	This book is the sequel to 2001: A Space Oddysey, and is, in  my opinion, a superior book. First, to clarify:  this is not a sequel to the novel 2001, rather it is a sequel to the movie. If you do not watch the movie you might get lost. This book is superior to its predecessor because of its pacing and greater level of wonder and suspense. While 2001 grabbed my interest, it moved a little slow. 2010 starts quickly and doesn't stop until the last page. This book begins with the launch of LEONOV, a Russian Space Ship with an important mission:  to rendezvous with DISCOVERY and find the invaluable information contained in its computer banks. There is trouble from the start:  a Chinese vessel has beat them to Jupiter, presumably to view the invaluable information for themselves. The vessel is destroyed on Europa, a moon on Jupiter. Meanwhile, Dave Bowman, now a being of pure energy, returns to Earth, effectively as a probe, to find out about the planet. He makes contact with an old girlfriend and his mother, then he returns to his old ship, DISCOVERY. I could not stop reading this exciting and compelling novel and cannot wait to read the final two of the series, although I have heard that they are subpar.	2001-02-11
US	47303730	RHVC3DBP9HM5	0440211727	883917886	A Time to Kill	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Great Total Package	This book is the story of Carl Lee Hailey, a black Vietnam veteran who killed the white men who raped his daughter, and Jake Brigance, the defense attourney who is his lawyer at the trial. The trial is an O.J. Simpson-like affair, with counrty-wide media coverage. Reporters flock to the small town of Clanton, Mississippi, and are alienated by the local citizens. It turns from a trial to a circus as the KKK, NAACP, and other groups use it to further their own agendas. Then Jake finds that his life is in danger after his house is almost blown up and a bullet meant for him hits a national guardsman. This book really hooked me. From the first page this novel caught my attention and kept it until the end. Its plot is compelling and believable, and its events are not farfetched. This is better reading than The Firm, and is an excellent introduction to Grisham.	2001-02-07
US	47303730	R1EW692HGIRM7R	044021145X	438349301	The Firm	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Money Kills...	This book is the story of Mitchell McDeere, a young, poor lawyer out of Harvard Law. He finished among the top three in his class and has recieved offers from law firms all over the country, including the small, conservative tax firm of Bendini, Lambert &amp; Locke in Memphis, Tennessee. They offer more than any other firm: a new BMW, a new house, a large salary with many incentives and bonuses, student loan relief, and a community and way of life. But before long, Mitch is confronted by the truth: the firm is actually owned by a powerful Chicago mafia family and once you are in, there are but two ways out: dying and retiring while keeping your mouth shut. The whole book is fascinating, from the beginning when the lawyers were outlining the terms, to the middle, when we discover why those terms are in place, and the espionage begins, to a suspenseful manhunt for the McDeeres which includes the police, the FBI, and the mob. This is absolutely compelling reading and makes you think about if a firm that controls every aspect of your life, that can hear every word you say, does exist.	2001-01-31
US	47303730	R3JZ9VT2CXQMPF	0425147363	794106396	Op-Center	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Op-Center Is An Excellent Read	The book Op-Center is a fine story, an excellent yarn in the tradition of Tom Clancy. Paul Hood is the director of Op-Center, a new government organization that must respond to international crises. When someone sets off a bomb in Seoul, South Korea, it is assumed to be North Korean terrorists, but Hood discovers facts that point in another direction: A group of South Korean ultra-patriots that want to start World War III by expunging the American presence from their country and fire North Korean missiles at Japan, so as to create an alliance between them in fighting the North. The book starts slow but is difficult to put down once you hit the really interesting and action-packed parts: several storylines converge into each other, whether in the confines of Op-Center HQ, the streets of Seoul, or North Korea, this book delivers a plausible story and a dynamic plot. I would have rated this book 5 stars if it hadn't had the following flaws: first was the way the North and South worked together to start a war. I understand why they would do this: for power in the new country they created, but I found it difficult to determine how Op-Center knew so-and-so was working for so-and-so, and there were some other small plot holes, but overall, these are small problems that shouldn't ruin the experience. This is an excellent book: fans of Clancy will be pleased.	2001-01-28
US	47303730	RTHZZPRTGNSUE	0553211757	755691955	Crime and Punishment (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Work	Raskolnikov is a young student in 19th century Petersburg. He quits school because he can't afford to put himself through, he has sold most of his Earthly possessions so that he can eat, and then he takes the life of a wealthy pawnbroker and robs her house because he feels a sense of entitlement. This story brings the 19th century of Russia to life, Raskolnikov is such an intriguing character, and its characters are one of the book's greatest strengths. The settings are vivid, the plot itself is wonderful. The book is very coherent, it loses little in the translation, which is a credit to the translator, because a bad translator can screw up a book like this. This is a great book and definitely worth reading.	2001-01-25
US	47303730	R2P647DXLKA7LI	0345354621	376914649	The Terminal Man	Books	4	1	2	N	N	4 1/2 Stars--Terminally Underrated	I think that this book is extremely underrated. This is an excellent story by MC that, although a little dated, is still a compelling and exciting tale which centers on Harry Benson, a computer programmer who was hit by a car and recieved dementia and a condition where he has seizures. Seizures in which he can horribly injure or kill people. He recieves an operation in which 40 electrodes are implanted in his brain, to counterract the seizures. He discovers the electric pulses they generate are pleasurable and discovers how to get them faster, then he turns into a maniac on a killing spree. The ending was abrupt, you never find out what happens to the characters, that is my only complaint. In any case, this book is a good read that will keep you interested until the last page.	2001-01-15
US	47303730	R3HMC1EHQY7NSL	034540288X	861735579	The Lost World	Books	3	0	0	N	N	3 1/2 Stars: Disappointing	I am not just talking about the book. I am talking about Crichton, this is the first book of his that was not a fresh idea. This book is essentially Jurassic Park, but with a couple of slight changes. I really disliked the fact that Crichton resurrected Ian Malcolm. He could have easily built the story around Grant, or Muldoon, or he could have introduced somebody new. The characters aren't well developed at all, the plot of the two is identical. It just can't measure up. All in all, this book is the weakest yet by Crichton, but still not too bad compared to everything else out there.	2001-01-15
US	47303730	R2WKA7RBZATTVJ	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	12	13	N	N	EASY TO PICK UP--HARD TO PUT DOWN	This book is a chilling, harrowing true story of Christopher McCandless, an intelligent, compassionate young man who couldn't stand to live in the stale world of wealth and work. A fan of Leo Tolstoy and Henry Thoreau, he was inspired by the former's forsakenness of wealth to walk among the poverty-stricken populace, so he packed up some possesions, burned all of his money, abandoned his car, which he loved, and headed across the country in search of adventure. He intended to leave his family, which he had never gotten along entirely well with, and live on the land, to create for himself a new life. This book is an account of McCandless's epic oddysey, which spanned all across the North American continent, from Georgia to Mexico to Alaska, and his adventures along the way, along with memories from friends and acquaintances. I simply couldn't stop reading this fateful tale. It reads like a documentary, for most of the story, it seems like you are living vicariously through Krakauer's writing, and he often seems like he isn't there at all. The other reason I liked this book so much was its study of the main character, who is a fascinating character who is riddled with contradictions and romances that ultimately led to his end in the Alaskan Bush. He is a different breed than I, than most of us, the kind that is completely unimpressed by the mundane life we have here and wants life on his own terms. If you like adventure stories, this is a must read. The story isn't overlong, it lasts only over 200 pages and remains fresh throughout. Absolutely compelling reading.	2001-01-13
US	47303730	R1ADDYJG3N5PUR	0345370775	392304217	Jurassic Park: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4 1/2 Stars: Very Good, but A Little Overrated	This book is an excellent read, but don't be fooled by all of the comments and praise for this book: it is NOT Crichton's best ever. That distinction belongs to Sphere, or maybe even Disclosure. It is very good, even addictive, and it is entertaining, but it is simply overrated. Crichton brings us a story about an island devoted to dinosaurs run by an eccentric old man with deep pockets. Inevitably, something goes horribly wrong, and people start dropping like flies as the remaining ones struggle to remain alive. It is a lot different than the movie, and it is undeniably better, even though I liked the movie a lot. It certainly ends differently. All in all this is a standout book, but a bit overrated, and not Crichton's best.	2001-01-11
US	47303730	R396BPATBC3E3Y	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Compelling Tale, but...	...not his best of all time. That distinction belongs to The Cardinal of the Kremlin, but this story is certainly a relavent and engrossing tale of the drug trade in Columbia and America. After an American citizen is killed by thugs, it seems like an open and shut case of piracy. But it is discovered that the businessman had ties to the Columbian drug cartels and the President (who is never given a name in this book, just his Secret Service codename, Wrangler) is determined to hurt the cartels once and for all. Operation Reciprocity is initiated with two parts. The first is a reconnaisance operation in Columbia to find the druggies, and the other part involves shooting druggie planes before they can deliver their cargo. But the gloves come off after the Director of the FBI, Emil Jacobs, is killed in Bogota, and the President's National Security Advisor orders a new operation: Reciprocity, which is meant to kill drug producers in an attempt to deal with the drugs. However, the NSA is corrupted, and the soldiers must fight for their lives. Jack Ryan, of course, comes to the rescue. He doesn't have a large role until halfway through the book. I thought this book was great, better than the movie, which I also liked a lot. The actor cast to play Ritter in the movie was especially good, but he looked nothing like the Ritter I was imagining. This book does have tons of bad language, and although its to be expected in Clancy's work, its concentration is larger here than in his other books. It is a little long at the beginning 100 pages, but it gets good quickly. If you like Clancy this is a must read.	2001-01-10
US	47303730	R38H60VDE88XBQ	0425133540	243303903	The Sum of All Fears (Jack Ryan Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Couldn't Stop Reading	This book is addictive reading. Jack Ryan was CIA's rising star until Bob Fowler became President. He doesn't think as much of Ryan as the Deputy Director, Central Intelligence, and his National Security Advisor, Elizabeth Elliot, thinks even less. They got off to a bad start, and now she is above him and trying to make his life miserable by spreading lies about his sexual conduct and trying to create something to kick him out of CIA with. At the same time, a group of terrorists are constructing a Nuclear bomb that they intend to use at the Super Bowl not only to kill the thousands of fans, but the Secretary of Defense and the Secreatary of State, who are also at the game. The last 300 pages are probably the most intense put to print. The downside is that it starts out pretty slow, but it shapes to be among the three best Clancy books ever, and there have been some good ones.	2001-01-10
US	47303730	R2H9LKW5GG3SHV	0425109720	32944133	Patriot Games (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Pretty Good Prequel	This prequel is a good story about terrorists and is more visceral than most Clancy stories, but it works to his advantage here. The book has a great beginning, then it slows down a bit in the middle, then it kicks back into high gear for an amazing ending. Jack Ryan here is a Professor of History at the Naval Academy on vacation in London when he intervenes in a terrorist attack on the Prince of Wales (who is never given a name, even in Clancy's later works). This book then tells of the revenge act by the IRA that ultimately ends with a mesmerizing end sequence with the ultimate gun fight. This is an excellent page turner, and it will not disappoint	2001-01-10
US	47303730	R3U71OADXAUO1V	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Little Tough, but A Good Start For A Master	This book has a lot of technical details. A lot. The book itself it is not very long, but a portion is tech details. Nonetheless, this sci-fi epic is fresh as ever, although the technology and dates date it somewhat. When a mysterious virus either kills all of the inhabitants of a small town there or makes them insane, shortly after a space probe crashes, a team of scientists must study this virus to determine a way to control it. Leading the team is renowned biologist Jeremy Stone, along with several other experts, to determine the nature of this elusive strand. The ending is unexpected, and a little disappointing. I dislike the analyses of a certain characters' actions, i.e. (It was twenty-four hours until he realized his error.) And there is too much foreshadowing, to the point where plot twists become predictable. But these are just minor things, not to be worried about. All in all, this is a good book, and rightfully a classic, and a worthy start for the Author	2001-01-10
US	47303730	R2AYCC7DMF1G1G	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very Good Story, but Not Flawless	This is one of my favorite Clancy novels. This was written when he had to put a great novel on the table to make money, and Red Storm Rising certainly is this. Aside from the several slow stretches and its lack of development for some of the characters, this book is a compelling look at a Soviet-NATO war that could have easily happened, this book seizes your attention and holds it until the very last page. The ending is good as well, although some will debate me on this. I'm waiting for the movie.	2001-01-08
US	47303730	R399OO5W6D5JQG	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Science Fiction's 1984: Vivid, Engrossing	Although this book was written over thirty years ago, it is still a compelling book and shows very few signs of its age. It makes many predictions, and aside from the obviously wrong ones(nobody lives on the Moon or Mars, retaining 90% of what we learn, the USSR doesn't exist anymore), it has many dead-on predictions as well, such as the population of the Earth, and its story is a great story of what might have been, and it should be read by everyone. I am not a true science fiction fan. I read this book based on a recommendation of a friend. I was not unimpressed.	2001-01-07
US	47303730	R1FEJ24PLK1NSO	0471318620	404958901	Undercover Tales of World War II	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fascinating WWII Anthology	This is an interesting collection of World War II stories that are both fascinating and true. Almost every story is an obscure gem that seizes your interest and will not let go. There are tales of intelligence and behind-the-scenes war stories that should make any history buff or person casually interested satisfied. I enjoyed this book a lot, and I would recommend it to anyone	2001-01-05
US	47303730	R27RTSRPVUDATU	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Couldn't Put It Down	I read this book in two days and simply couldn't stop reading. Although it starts slow, it quickly becomes a masterpiece of suspense and intrigue, and its subject matter is still certainly relevant today. I imagine that some will be put off by Crichton's use of language or his controversial message, but I must acknowledge the work of a master, for this is truly an amazing and compelling book.	2001-01-05
US	47303730	RVXOMX5K8IJZG	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4 1/2 Stars: Good Book, But Not Crichton's Best	This book is an excellent story about which, like many things, seems like a simple case but is much more complex. An airplane catastrophe causes four deaths and 57 injuries, but what is the problem? Corey Singleton, a Vice President with Norton Aircraft, is assigned with finding out. This is not a mystery novel per se, but you will be wondering too, with anxiety and fascination, while you read this fantastic book. The plot is thick and unexpected, and the resolution is unexpected. The characters leave a little something to be desired, but this is a plot-driven book, and after reading it, you will feel smarter and you will be glad you spent your time reading it. Worth the time.	2001-01-05
US	47303730	R2HQTM62W8W9W5	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	5	12	13	N	N	CRICHTON'S BEST YET	I read this book this summer and I think it is his best to this day. A team of scientists set out to the bottom of the Pacific Ocean to examine a spaceship that crashed to the bottom three hundred years ago. There is the calm and wise Norman Johnson, the attractive and determined Beth Halperin, the brilliant and befuddling Harry Adams, and the smart yet annoying Ted Fielding, all under the command of Harold Barnes, a Captain in the U.S. Navy. They quickly gain access and discover the ship operational, and they discover a metallic sphere. But when they are cut off in a storm, they must discover the power of the sphere and confront its great powers. lest everyone get killed. I was genuinely sad when it ended. This book is Crichton's best and it is the best I have ever read, and I have read a lot of books. If you are looking for a white-knuckle ride to terror on the bottom of the ocean, this book is your ticket, and this review is your boarding call. Buy it today, because I guarantee you, you will want to re-read this one. Even if you aren't a fan of Crichton, pick this book up today and start reading. You won't be sorry.	2001-01-05
US	47303730	RIOHU407LQFUL	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Crichton's Best Yet	I read this book this summer and I think it is his best to this day. A team of scientists set out to the bottom of the Pacific Ocean to examine a spaceship that crashed to the bottom three hundred years ago. There is the calm and wise Norman Johnson, the attractive and determined Beth Halperin, the brilliant and befuddling Harry Adams, and the smart yet annoying Ted Fielding, all under the command of Harold Barnes, a Captain in the U.S. Navy. They quickly gain access and discover the ship operational, and they discover a metallic sphere. But when they are cut off in a storm, they must discover the power of the sphere and confront its great powers. lest everyone get killed. I was genuinely sad when it ended. This book is Crichton's best and it is the best I have ever read, and I have read a lot of books. If you are looking for a white-knuckle ride to terror on the bottom of the ocean, this book is your ticket, and this review is your boarding call. Buy it today, because I guarantee you, you will want to re-read this one. Even if you aren't a fan of Crichton, pick this book up today and start reading. You won't be sorry.	2001-01-05
US	47303730	R3N9D6XQDA2G3C	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One Of The Few Good Books I Read For School	I read this book as a school assignment and it is one of the few good reading assignments I have ever had. The characters are all excellent; you almost get to know them through this short book. The ending is sad, in fact the whole story is sad, but is very well done	2000-12-31
US	47303730	RB232ZAKYON42	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Starts Slow, But Hang In There	This book starts off rather slowly, with an almost 200 page introduction to the climbers and the peril of climbing Mount Everest. Then the book takes off and becomes a compelling and electrifiying account of a storm that takes the life of 11 people and leaves more permanently scarred, if not on the outside, then on the inside. Once the storm starts, it is absolutely amazing reading. Just hang in there through the somewhat long intro, and you will enjoy what follows.	2000-12-31
US	47303730	RWE9JA8JNFHZN	0399138250	685045441	Without Remorse	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Not What I Expected	Normally, I expect stories by Tom Clancy to be about combat, but this book didn't center on that, surprisingly. This book centered on John Kelly, an ex-Navy SEAL grieving the accidental death of his wife. He finds a new love, but she is killed by druggies. So, he takes it upon himself to avenge her death by becoming a vigilante and taking out the street scum and trying to find the killers. There is a respite when Kelly goes on an operation in Vietnam, which fails, but all of the subplots are tied together nicely and the action never ends. I couldn't turn the pages fast enough.<br />It has parallels to such great works as Heart of Darkness, and is not bad.	2000-12-30
US	47303730	RUIN7SN1A4OTW	0842332251	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind #8)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Clearly Inferior to the Rest	I have read all of the books in this series and I feel that this one does little for the series. Not with the wonder, politics, and action that made the first one a (legitimate) success, this new one is a cash cow and that is apparent to everyone. I thought this would be a 7-book series, but because of its success, who knows how long this can go on? The authors can continue to put mediocre books on the shelves and they will be blockbusters regardless of their quality. This book aparently contradicts itself when the young Asian boy recieves the mark of the beast, but still can be saved. There are some good parts to this book, like the escape from the gas station and the plot to get the believers out of Dodge, but all in all it is an average book. And I expect better from such a blockbuster sucess.	2000-12-30
US	47303730	R1JGR2PU0PGA5G	0425162788	245559173	Politika (Tom Clancy's Power Plays, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Pretty Good-3 1/2 Stars	I was generous and rounded up. This is not the best book by Tom Clancy, not by any means. But it is not as bad as the other reviewers say. It has a lot of good ideas in it and it has a couple of good intertwining subplots and good action scenes. Sure the characters weren't the best, and having more development would have been great, but it is what it is, and I thought it was pretty good overall.	2000-12-29
US	47303730	R1DOC5B9IFV4Q7	0425165701	676866896	Ruthless.Com (Tom Clancy's Power Plays, Book 2)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fair, Boring at Times, but Interesting	This book is not going to win any awards, but it is interesting to see Gordian and Caine face off and there are a couple of other good things, such as the tense escapist scenes. There were some pretty boring parts, but this book was average.	2000-12-29
US	47303730	RSMC3156QJ40E	0425162060	96823031	Clancy 1 boxed set	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Three of Clancy's Best	This is simply a must buy for any fan of Clancy who has not read the original books yet. This collection is one of the best devisible. It includes Without Remorse, the story of one John Kelly, ex-Navy seal, who becomes a merciless vigilante after the murder of his girlfriend at the hands of druglords, and who must save captured U. S. Armed Forces members from the hands of the Vietnamese. Then comes The Cardinal of the Kremlin, a cold war spy novel about the Star Wars race, and its central character is Colonel Mikhail Filitov, a war hero and American spy. Undoubtedly his best, although not by a wide margin. Next is The Sum of All Fears, a story about peace in the Middle East, the near-demise of Jack Ryan, and terrorists with a nuclear bomb that has an amazing plot and an excellent ending. All in all, probably the best assembly of Tom Clancy's novels I've seen yet. Buy it.	2000-12-29
US	47303730	R3QGQ6BJEUZ6PE	0425162087	626786012	Clancy 2 boxed set	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ryan's Rise Up	The two of these books show the steep political rise of Jack Ryan. Debt of Honor is a book about war with the Japanese due to a dispute of land. The book itself is fair, but it sets the scene for the second book, Executive Orders. In this book, Jack Ryan becomes President of the United States and must deal with all kinds of problems, both outside the U. S. and inside. Although it is long, it is an absolutely excellent book.	2000-12-29
US	47303730	R29KAD807JJUDR	0671008781	79173723	Star Trek: Spectre	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent Reading	I am not a serious trekkie, although I enjoy watching the show from time to time. I was given this book as a gift and read it in a day. It is an excellent book, one that even non-trekkies will like. It has a good story and is actually pretty funny. It doesn't just try to satisfy the hardcore trekkie, but it has something for everyone, and works well.	2000-12-27
US	47303730	R1H7ZMN4QGFXPG	0399138412	532012641	Tom Clancy: Two Complete Novels	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Two of Clancy's Best Books in One	This book combines two of Tom Clancy's best stories into one volume: The Cardinal of the Kremlin, a spy novel about the Cold War and the Star Wars program, my personal favorite, and Red Storm Rising, the classic story about a war between NATO and the Soviet Union, which has several plots and non-stop action once the war gets started, which happens quickly. If you don't already have the books, buy this volume now.	2000-12-21
US	47303730	RYU0FYGHEVWSL	0425133516	853466247	The Hunt for Red October	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Start for Clancy	Tom Clancy is now a household name because of his writings, but lately he has lost his touch. This is evident in The Bear and The Dragon, in which is out of his element. However, this book has perhaps the best plot and characters in any of Clancy's other books. This book has a different kind of suspense from the film, where you knew Ramius's intentions from the beginning and were wondering how he would accomplish it. In the book you don't know until near the end, and it keeps you guessing. The ending is better than that of the movie, in my opinion, and many of the characters that eventually become bigshots, like Jack Ryan, Robby Jackson, and Bart Mancuso, are in this book and are more interesting than when they become bigshots. This book is almost perfect. I would recommend it to anybody.	2000-12-21
US	47303730	R3BUB9IY761GFM	0399138412	532012641	Tom Clancy: Two Complete Novels	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Two of Clancy's Best Books in One	This book combines two of Tom Clancy's best stories into one volume: The Cardinal of the Kremlin, a spy novel about the Cold War and the Star Wars program, my personal favorite, and Red Storm Rising, the classic story about a war between NATO and the Soviet Union, which has several plots and non-stop action once the war gets started, which happens quickly. If you don't already have the books, buy this volume now.	2000-12-21
US	47303730	R1RRYJ6A9F2TBD	0425147584	145288617	Debt of Honor (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Okay, Not His Finest	Now understand first: I don't mind long books. Executive Orders was over 350 pages longer, and I gave it 5 stars. Now let me proceed. This book was too long. It could have easily been 300 pages shorter with only minimal detractions to the story. Its story is rather farfetched, and many of the characters aren't developed very well. This falls short of its predacessor in the Ryan series, The Sum of all Fears, and its sucessor, Executive Orders. At least the climax is good.	2000-12-21
US	47303730	R1GFWCOH3KCIYI	0399139354	514389784	Three Complete Novels: Patriot Games, Clear & Present Danger, Sum of All Fears	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great Books, Great Value	This product contains three of the most action packed novels by Tom Clancy: Patriot Games, a book about Irish terrorists bent on killing Jack Ryan, which is far superior to the movie; Clear and Present Danger, which is deeper than the movie, but slower moving, and The Sum of All Fears, which is destined to the theater, has a plot of peace in the Middle East and an excellent ending. Well worth the price.	2000-12-21
US	47303730	R1CZO0LEVBMPSP	0345354613	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Story	This book is an excellent story about a Muslim who unwillingly comes on an expedition with 12 vikings to kill some monsters. Vikings revere the number 13, and their prohecies say that in order to kill the monsters, the 13th warrior must be a foreigner. I thought this book was pretty good, but it had only a few flaws. It was a little slow-moving at parts, and we never know what happens after he leaves for home. But the imagery this book creates is very good.	2000-12-16
US	47303730	R2AH3EABTYFQSG	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rising	This book is a fascinating murder mystery involving rape, politics, and multiple Japanese corporations. In the middle of all this is Lieutennant Peter Smith, a police officer from Los Angeles. When it becomes clear he can't handle it alone, he asks for the help of Captain John Connor, an expert in Japanese affairs. And so begins an investigation that is exciting and intriguing. Its subject matter is very realistic and its characters are developed well. I couldn't read this book fast enough. Excellent book.	2000-12-16
US	47303730	R2R7RXD9I3M0GO	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good Story	This book is good because it is something that could happen. John Clark and Ding Chavez return in this story about a multi-national counterterrorist team. Clark, whom you remember from Without Remorse and every Ryan book from The Cardinal of the Kremlin on, is the leader of the team, which is headquartered in Hereford Air Force Base in England. This book is simply excellent. The action sequences where team rainbow takes down the terrorists are great, and the story is good, and makes you wonder what will happen next. The mail problems are the lack of character development and the Australia Olympics scheme. It is cold there in our summer, that is why we had to wait several months, for it to warm up there. Nevertheless, an engrossing story.	2000-12-16
US	47303730	RG7KZCPQVKL95	0425116840	469892992	The Cardinal of the Kremlin (Jack Ryan)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Clancy's Best	This spy novel is an excellent story and my favorite of his books. Jack Ryan conceives a master plot to get a superspy, named Mikhail Filitov, CARDINAL, and the Chairman of the KGB out of the Soviet Union. This is a film that should be converted to film as soon as possible. Even non-Clancy fans should give it a chance. It is simply the best.	2000-12-09
US	47303730	RA6B3HENCPOM7	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fair, but slow	I had to read this book in class and most of my classmates enjoyed it. I, however, did not. It was slow and predictable, contained precious few original ideas, the battle room was a good one, but the reading was dry. The book is nothing spactacular, don't bother with this one.<br />-m-	2000-12-09
US	47303730	R1QEB251G2U6XH	034540727X	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Amazing Civil War Novel	I have studied the Civil War for years in school, but they were all dates, statistics, names, not real. It didn't captivate my interest until I read this novel. It is an insight into the Civil War that you can't get from reading textbooks. The author portrays both the generals and the battles in a way that kept me reading until the end. He doesn't have any bias toward either side, which is rare in the Civil War books I have read. A must read for anyone because this is our past in a way that will please all and offend none.	2000-12-09
US	47303730	R26VBQZEQ5UOTF	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Long but Brilliant	War and Peace is the longest novel I have ever read, and it is definitely one, if not the, best. The story can only be called an epic, and the characters are believable people with strengths and weaknesses. There is a theme of death in the book: 9 of the main characters die, but it doesn't grow boring or disappoint and it has something for everybody.<br />-m-	2000-12-09
US	47303730	RGAD306EV4NLI	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent-One of Clancy's Best	Jack Ryan becomes President of the United States in this Clancy novel, and must face the daunting tasks of restoring the nation's government, managing a health crisis, and win a war. I thought this book was excellent, even on a level with The Cardinal of the Kremlin. Although long, this book has many very interesting stories that all come together for a very nice ending. Worth reading if you are a fan of Clancy, or if you are not, read it anyway.	2000-12-07
US	47303730	R10KO5K7KMEYDK	0345418980	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Andromeda Strain - Oldie but Goodie	Although this was one of Crichton's best works, it is not the best. There are several reasons why. First, there was too much foreshadowing on the plot twists, which took out some of the suspense. Secondly, the ending was, in my opinion, a bit of a letdown. The book is inevitably dated, yet it is still a compelling bio-terror novel, but if you want Crichton's best, pick up a copy of Sphere.	2000-10-27
