US	47311361	R1Q6HJYRANBTOV	0810933160	28233484	Flowers, Birds, and Unicorns: Medieval Needlepoint	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Beautiful patterns, beautiful book.	This hardcover book is remarkably well put-together, looking almost like a coffee-table book and not a pattern omnibus at all. Inside there are lush patterns with flavor text about how the author thought up the project and historical notes about why she chose this or that positioning or border.<br /><br />The patterns are simple and easy to make, though it does make me crazy that the author doesn't include patterns for all pieces depicted -- I wonder if these were included as teasers to make readers seek and purchase additional patterns. Many of these neglected patterns were ones I'd dearly love to make, but there's lots of other stuff here for embroiderers. The lion tapestry, in particular, is graceful and looks genuine for its period, and I adore her unicorn even if what she came out with as a pattern bears next to no relation to the \\"inspiration\\" she says she used. Her fleur-de-lys pattern, as well, is magnificent and would make a splendid seat cushion (a project which she actually recommends), floor mat, or hanging -- definitely suggest to readers.<br /><br />Overall I'm very happy I got this book and would recommend it, especially as a gift, for any embroiderer, especially for those who enjoy fantasy or medieval-style patterns.	2005-05-31
US	47311361	R27C3Q8GP6F7JE	0226706850	543831409	The Medieval Kitchen: Recipes from France and Italy	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Excellent resource for a medieval-living enthusiast.	Written by noted food historians and with a foreward written by one of the foremost historians of our time, this book is an excellent resource for anybody with an interest in food history.<br /><br />Like other works, such as Pleyn Delit, the original recipes in their original language are given. Like other cookbooks, this one groups recipes by type (fish, meats, sauces, etc.). Unlike other works, however, this one has an appendix that gives complete lists of each source's recipes, allowing you to see, at a glance, all the recipes taken from a given work. This is, to me, the book's biggest strength. I can access all the recipes taken from the \\"Libro de arte coquinaria\\" and \\"Le Menagier de Paris\\", for example. There are even some unpublished sources, such a manuscript stored at New York's Pierpont Morgan Library with a couple of recipes of note listed.<br /><br />The few recipes from this book that I've tried have been stellar--tasty and easy to make, such as the herb soup and the fruit-based meat sauces. Most of it's accessible to regular diners. Some of the recipes sound absolutely mouthwatering--\\"Summertime Cerulean Blue Sauce\\", for example, which is colored by blueberries and flavored by ground almonds and ginger, and officially used on meat, but would probably be absolutely delicious on desserts.<br /><br />Among its other resources, the book also lists mail-order sources for some of the more exotic spices and ingredients, such as the verjuice called for in many recipes. It also has good information about the history of the region, with its foreward and the historical notes on most of the recipes--what dish to serve it with, other recipes it's similar to, and more. Its index is quite complete, also a boon to a history wonk.<br /><br />I've found this book a tremendous help to my studies, as well as a great cookbook on its own. I would not hesitate to recommend it to anybody. My only complaint is that it isn't longer and more comprehensive. Because it concentrates on two countries, France and Italy, and covers a couple of centuries, its 150-some-odd recipes are, of necessity, a mere sprinkling, a mere tantalizing taste, of a complete look at the cuisine of the time. I'd love these authors to make a complete Italian Renaissance cookbook with hundreds of recipes and way more information, and a second volume for France--each book twice as long as this one.oncentrates on two countries, France and Italy, and covers a couple of centuries, its 150-some-odd recipes are, of necessity, a mere sprinkling, a mere tantalizing taste, of a complete look at the cuisine of the time. I'd love these authors to make a complete Italian Renaissance cookbook with hundreds of recipes and way more information, and a second volume for France--each book twice as long as this one.	2005-03-25
US	47311361	R2FZPO5I2GUIZN	0688515193	684558641	Clever Cooks: A Concoction of Stories, Charms, Recipes and Riddles	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Charming Title.	I actually got this in the 70s and didn't realize it was still in print; I found it in a box of stuff when I moved and was charmed by it all over again.<br /><br />It's a collection of short stories and fables, mixed with a few riddles, along with about a dozen recipes. I'd never seen the stories before, though all of them are acknowledged from previously-published sources from around the world.<br /><br />The recipes seem easy enough for kids, though some might be challenging. They include roast chicken, butter cookies, cherry dumplings, chocolate potato cake with frosting, pancakes, honey butter, pumpkin chiffon pie, and soup. One recipe I thought was good was one for molasses milkshakes. This cookbook, unlike other \\"kids'\\" cookbooks, assumes kids are pretty functional in the kitchen if given half a chance. Nothing here should be really dangerous; nothing's more complicated than sifting.<br /><br />The illustrations for this (b/w line drawings) are particularly charming. I'd suggest this for anybody who likes kids' cookbooks or who wants to combine fairy tales and food.	2005-02-16
US	47311361	RJH2GLW42Y9BP	0764526340	143648138	Betty Crocker's Cook Book for Boys and Girls	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Delightful kids' cookbook, very retro.	While I realize it's not an exact copy of the original, it is a wonderful look at food from the 50s and 60s. I got it because of my fascination with food history and wasn't disappointed.<br /><br />50s food was garish and a bit twee, but there's still a lot here that will sound appealing to modern readers. I just made the Hot Fudge Pudding (a baked chocolate bread-style pudding) that was without question one of the strangest things I've ever cooked, but it was absolutely delicious--made the entire cookbook worth the buy, just that recipe right there. I've made flourless chocolate torte and STILL think this was the weirdest dessert I've ever made.<br /><br />Nothing here is outside a kid's abilities; it's all just following directions. There's some chopping and oven use, but none of the talking-down that other children's cookbooks employ (\\"get an adult to turn the oven on\\" being the most irritating example of this, and all absent from this book). Recipes tend toward the simple--chili, soup, biscuits, cakes, cookies, salads, breakfasts--with a concentration on making the food appealing to kids.<br /><br />I gave this 4 instead of 5 stars because most of it's arranging food, with no actual cooking. Page after page of imaginative ways to put fruit on cereal and make shapes out of salad parts isn't my idea of cooking. I'd rather have had more actual recipes. But that's my own preference. As a snapshot of another era, this is a fantastic little book and I wouldn't hesitate to suggest someone buy it as a gift. I'm not sure how much actual kids would enjoy it, but adults and food wonks should love it, and introducing it to a child as \\"This is how I ate when I was your age\\" should work well. And do try the Hot Fudge Pudding thing; if that doesn't convert them, nothing will.	2005-02-16
US	47311361	R3GL3RFBLNKT87	0688100120	6771058	Sylvia's Soul Food	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Best ribs recipe I've seen yet.	I bought this for the ribs recipes and I was not at all disappointed. It's a very new approach for me, but one that turned out beautifully. I've used other recipes in this book, and all have come out as promised (especially the fried chicken recipe), but the ribs are the ones I come back to again and again. I'm very glad I got this book and wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anybody interested in Southern comfort cooking.	2005-01-15
US	47311361	R3N6JF6ZDL7IVD	0836221567	775224336	Cats of the Masters	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Just a gift book, really	I found this book very disappointing. I expected a book about paintings of cats, and what it ended up being was poorly-inserted cats set into famous paintings. I didn't find the prose very funny at all, either. I caught mine on sale (there is no way I'd have bought this 5&quot; square book at full price), but after the first glance, I didn't bother further with it. I'm sorry I bought it. I'm still waiting for a good book about cats in art history.	2003-03-06
US	47311361	R37KJR6KTYMAJJ	0786867663	116706867	Creating a Life: Professional Women and the Quest For Children	Books	1	41	73	N	N	I wish there were a 0 rating.	This author loves children. She tells us so any number of times, as if that somehow qualifies her to write about motherhood. She is a prime example of what child-free people call \\"the breeder mentality\\", so stuffed with the word \\"entitled\\" she overflows with it, and completely condedescending and supercilious toward any different mindset -- particularly the child-free one. Men will find her assertions regarding husband-hunting in time to breed bone-chilling, particularly in light of today's divorce rates (something else she doesn't really cover).<br />Myself, I approached this book with a little hesitation, because I am child-free and proud of it. I read it with an increasing amount of anger and disdain. What's sad is that the writer actually has an interesting thing to say -- that women in the highest-paying jobs are having a major problem juggling work and home life, and in the middle of their stressful lives, frequently end up \\"forgetting\\" to have kids. She says some important things about fertility and how assisted-fertility treatments like IVF aren't the saviors that ignorant young women think they are. She says good things about the importance of making choices early on that will allow one flexibility to pursue life dreams later.<br />Those are important things, but to get to them, you have to wade through pages and pages of pity, self-loathing, and delusion. She dismisses the child-free movement as a \\"mini-movement\\", conveniently forgetting that 14% of her female respondents, and 13% of the respondents' partners, are child-free and do not even want children. She is shocked that the child-free resent parents having the perks they do, when, according to her, any fool can see that parents don't have ENOUGH perks (what planet is she on? Do ALL parents believe that the child-free exist to pick up their slack?). What is worse, when she does interview a man who tried to have it all and now regrets that he could not spend more time with his 3 daughters, her response is \\"Let's get real. At least he has children.\\" I hope that father sees this and realizes that not everybody has such misguided priorities, or is so callous. She buys into the claptrap about a woman's \\"highest function\\" being breeding, and even lets these high-powered executive women rattle on and on about how despite their incredible careers, dizzying salaries, and fantastic lifestyles, they're really just walking wombs. No mention is made of the destructiveness of self-pity and regret... no, these women are, indeed, poor little victims of the horrible workaday culture that forced them at gunpoint to work 70-hour weeks.<br />The way I see it, she glosses completely over one of the most important clues she's got: That the workplace needs to be fair for EVERYBODY. That NOBODY has a premium on \\"deserving\\" more free time -- not mothers, not fathers, not the child-free, nobody. She's completely missed that point, and because she has, she won't get anywhere with her little entitlement scheme. What she suggests is unfair, and we know it.<br />I'd skip this one, unless you happen to be a similarly-minded entitlement drone.. in which case I've no doubt you'll love it.is \\"Let's get real. At least he has children.\\" I hope that father sees this and realizes that not everybody has such misguided priorities, or is so callous. She buys into the claptrap about a woman's \\"highest function\\" being breeding, and even lets these high-powered executive women rattle on and on about how despite their incredible careers, dizzying salaries, and fantastic lifestyles, they're really just walking wombs. No mention is made of the destructiveness of self-pity and regret... no, these women are, indeed, poor little victims of the horrible workaday culture that forced them at gunpoint to work 70-hour weeks.<br />The way I see it, she glosses completely over one of the most important clues she's got: That the workplace needs to be fair for EVERYBODY. That NOBODY has a premium on \\"deserving\\" more free time -- not mothers, not fathers, not the child-free, nobody. She's completely missed that point, and because she has, she won't get anywhere with her little entitlement scheme. What she suggests is unfair, and we know it.  <br />I'd skip this one, unless you happen to be a similarly-minded entitlement drone.. in which case I've no doubt you'll love it.	2002-10-13
US	47311361	R12FFW50NVIJRR	0929480317	360989977	Mefisto in Onyx	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An outstanding achievement.	Exceptionally well-written by one of our generation's best science-fiction authors, this book is both disturbing and thought-provoking. Though it is short, I cannot remember being so affected by a science-fiction story for years.<br />The premise is simple. A black man named Rudy has the ability to read minds. A dear female friend of his, a lawyer, asks him to read the mind of a murderer she has recently sent to Death Row, to find out if he's really guilty. Rudy goes to see this murderer, and is astonished by some information he learns. There are many twists and turns to this tale.<br />The actual tale isn't what makes this story, however. As barebone plots go, this one isn't the most original I've ever seen. It has to be the actual storytelling. Ellison has a way of writing that reads almost like the breathless banter of a conman. It is engaging, engrossing, and, dangit, fun to read. Every page has some new gem to discover on it. Ellison is right: This is one of his finest works, perhaps even the best he CAN write. Don't miss it. (Don't miss his acknowledgments page, either. It's one of the funniest ones I've ever seen.)	2002-09-30
US	47311361	R3NZT1NEHWOZEQ	0801869390	831110930	Dressing Renaissance Florence: Families, Fortunes, and Fine Clothing (The Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and Political Science)	Books	5	55	56	N	N	OUTSTANDING - Renaissance Florence students, take note!	I'm extremely impressed. I think this book would make an outstanding addition to any Renaissance-lover's, or garbaholic's, bookshelf.<br />It is not about how to make Italian-persona clothing. Instead, it focuses on how Florentines of the Renaissance used clothing to make social statements. Along the way, it examines some things that garbmakers would like hearing about (one table lists various color combinations found in gowns and linings), but mostly, it's about the sociology of fashion.<br />Chapters:<br />* Craftspeople and tailors (including how clothes-making guilds were organized and the role women played in these guilds)<br />* Tailoring Family Honor (how Florentines viewed honor and how they thought honor was expressed through clothing)<br />* Family Fortunes in Clothes (how much they spent, and a bit about the secondhand clothes market)<br />* The making of wedding gowns (you'll love learning how many opinions went into one and how totally political it all was)<br />* Trousseaux for Marriage and Convent (how they differed, and lists of what went into each)<br />And stuff about sumptuary law, information about layers of clothing, types of dyes (and an examination of mourning clothes), types of fabric, and clothes as depicted in art -- and how art might have distorted how people really wore clothes. Embroidery is also covered.<br />Needless to say, the painter Ghirlandaio features pretty prominently here. There are also b/w repros of portraits, unfortunately not super well detailed, but there are a few here I haven't seen before. There are also appendices that are very useful -- lists of currency and measures, categories of clothiers, yardage required for various garments, glossaries of what yardage terms meant, and a HUGE bibliography and glossary of terms.<br />It isn't a physically large book, clocking in at around 300pp, but it's very rich in detail, and the writing is pleasant to read. I'd definitely recommend this book to anybody wanting to immerse in the period -- and DEFINITELY for any Renaissance costumers out there. It might not be a bad idea to have some basic grounding in the period before reading this, but it's written well enough that if any is required, it isn't much.d -- and DEFINITELY for any Renaissance costumers out there. It might not be a bad idea to have some basic grounding in the period before reading this, but it's written well enough that if any is required, it isn't much.	2002-09-26
US	47311361	R3TDS7844SN0P4	1579120695	117274209	Daily Life in Medieval Times: A Vivid, Detailed Account of Birth, Marriage and Death; Food, Clothing and Housing; Love and Labor in the Middle Ages	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A must-have.	This is a compilation of several of the Gies' books: &quot;Life in a Medieval Castle&quot;, &quot;Life in a Medieval Village&quot;, and &quot;Life in a Medieval City&quot;. But it's so much more, making it a must-have even for people who own the other books. I own all of them, and I still was absolutely delighted with this book.<br />Why? Because of the pictures! The softcover books don't have many pictures, if any at all, but this is LOADED with them, and quite a few are in color. It's absolutely outstanding, the way it is illustrated. Every single page just about is loaded with color photos of paintings, books, castles, portraits, you name it. They are all of excellent quality, though I'd have liked bigger ones, being the greedy person I am.<br />Extras seem to include a genealogy of the Counts of Champagne and a geographic guide to castles, listing extant ones country-by-country through Europe. There are explanatory notes at the end, a large bibliography, and photography credits. There is also a glossary and an index that looks adequate. This is a huge book, heavy and hard-covered, almost a coffee table book except for its vast wealth of information.<br />I'd say if you are interested in the Middle Ages, this would make a grand addition to your library -- and if you know someone who likes medieval history, this would make them a fantastic Christmas present.	2002-09-17
US	47311361	RL3DPA0M4JYYZ	0060921218	529908677	The Encyclopedia of Bad Taste	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Outstanding look at America's more regrettable phases.	Witty and sharp-tongued, this book guides readers in a primer of that which was bizarre and tasteless in the 70s and 80s. Topics range from \\"Frederick's of Hollywood\\" to Jell-O [tm] to Chippendale's Dancers to those obnoxious cedar plaques you used to be able to find at truck stops across the country (and maybe still can, somewhere). Some of these topics will be totally lost on younger readers -- my 25-year-old boyfriend had never heard of the Mayflower Madame, never knew the glory of ring-pull caps, and had never seen a macrame plant hanger. For me, however, a child of the 80s, these are just part of the general background of my life.<br />Some topics are strangely absent (where was the section on raccoon-style eyeliner? Where were edible underwear, slogan-bearing buttons, and Love's Baby Soft perfume?), and others are explored in far more depth than might be strictly necessary (Charo is a prime example -- she just never blipped my radar like fish sticks did, I guess).<br />I loved it, though. It's a good source of laughs. Actually, it made me feel a bit nostalgic. I'm making Jell-O tonight.<br />Warning: There is some strong language in this book, including a few examples of the F-word. There are also some R-rated pictures in it. Also, it really pokes fun at people named Tiffany. I wasn't offended, but I thought I'd mention it in case someone else wanted to avoid such things.	2002-09-14
US	47311361	R3VN5GARNYQ2NY	0500202877	912854195	Jewelry: From Antiquity to the Present (World of Art)	Books	5	76	78	N	Y	A good general overview of the subject	This is probably the best general overview one could ask of the subject of jewelry history. Starting around 30,000 BC and ending around 1988, the book (printed 1996) covers a wide variety of styles and eras. It is lavishly illustrated in color and b/w, with excellent detail. Of course, being that it is only 200 pp or so, it's not going to be able to go in depth anywhere, but it still manages to get its points across regarding trends, technology, and sociology and how they all affected jewelry styles.<br />The halfway point in this book is the Elizabethan era, so the entire latter half of the book falls outside SCA period. Very little indeed covers the period I'm most interested in, Italy of the 15th century. It also seems enamored with the &quot;popular&quot; eras -- little attention is paid to non-European countries once the Ancient Egyptian and Greco-Roman classic periods are dealt with. However, it's still a fascinating read, and a great introduction to the subject. The bibliography is quite extensive, giving the reader plenty of places to take up additional study.<br />In summary, I would suggest that any history or costuming enthusiast pick this up.	2002-09-11
US	47311361	R1QYD1DCUDP6SP	1563891336	45969474	Death: The High Cost of Living	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An excellent graphic novel.	I used to read \\"Sandman\\", in its early days. I thought Death was a pretty cool character (if a trifle over-imitated by Gothling chicks). There are several incarnations of Death as imagined by people -- one of them is the well-known \\"skeletal guy with the scythe\\". Another is the \\"Gay Deceiver\\", which is more how I see this Death -- handsome, personable, approachable. Gaiman, who has shown himself to have an exquisite handling of leitmotifs, does his usual good job here. The story is well-told, with few false notes.<br />The story is simple and does not assume any previous knowledge of \\"Sandman\\". Didi, a Gothling, saves the teenaged Sexton's life when he figures out at the last second that he really doesn't want to die. Though Didi's existence is quite explainable (she has neighbors who know her, and photos of her family in her apartment), she claims to be only a few hours old -- and she says she is the incarnation of Death. Sexton, a cynical grunger, doesn't believe it at all, but he ends up hanging around anyway. Didi has a lust for life and all sensations it holds, from the good taste of food to the pleasure of \\"a really good party\\". She also has major problems in the form of a few supernatural folks looking for her, including a creepy old mage looking for her ankh necklace (thinking that she puts her power into it, like Dream did his toys), and a British bag lady who's lost her heart and thinks Didi can find it. After 24 hours, Didi dies, having changed Sexton's outlook permanently. He never knows if she is what she claimed.<br />It is a sweet story, with none of the superhero bombast pervading comics today. Death has a nice day out and shows a very human side of her personality. When she dies, she whispers \\"No. Please.\\" She doesn't want to die. She doesn't want to leave this magical, wonderful life she's tasted so briefly. But that, she is told, is what gives life its value. Her conversation with her alter ego, after her death, is what made the whole story for me.<br />The art isn't bad, but it has a clumsy, blocky feel to it that detracted some from the story. I also thought the ending insert, a b/w piece featuring Death talking about AIDS, had shoddy art and poor movement -- it looked like a fanfic piece. But these both take second place behind an excellent story and a likable heroine..<br />The art isn't bad, but it has a clumsy, blocky feel to it that detracted some from the story. I also thought the ending insert, a b/w piece featuring Death talking about AIDS, had shoddy art and poor movement -- it looked like a fanfic piece. But these both take second place behind an excellent story and a likable heroine.	2002-08-28
US	47311361	R178VEBBKQG7VC	0300085419	34853211	Medieval Children	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Exhaustive and well-written.	I've never seen such a thorough treatment of the subject. It is, to say the least, exhaustive, as well as thoroughly footnoted.<br />Chapters cover all aspects of childhood, from pregnancy and birth to upbringing, the child's place in religion, how children entertained themselves, and how they were educated. There was quite a bit here that I had never seen before, dispelling many commonly-held misconceptions of how children were treated and viewed in the period.<br />The book is large, with good pictures and photos. The writing is extremely good, very readable, and free of overly high-blown language. I especially appreciated the information on education and recreation -- I had never seen medieval spellers or hornbooks, and never knew what kinds of games children actually played. Another chapter covered how children were treated by the Church -- how they were entered into its service, and even quite a bit about the Feast of Innocents, where children took the place of the bishop and priests and had a service!<br />Overall, I found the book to be absolutely a good addition to my history library, and suggest that others interested in the subject may find it so as well. It's $$$, but such a good value doesn't come along often.	2002-08-16
US	47311361	R1GVWSDKQDARQ0	0671038591	450886029	How Much for Just the Planet? (Star Trek, No 36)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The most delightful ST book I've ever read.	This kind of parody and self-mockery is rarely seen, nor done so well. Not everybody will like its insistence on not taking itself seriously, or its improbable plot. But it is howlingly funny to those who can appreciate a little physical humor and parody.<br />Kirk and a bunch of Klingons find themselves on a strange new planet, having to negotiate for a rare mineral. The planet's indigenous population turns out to not want either group there and takes steps to get them both off the planet. This sounds like a fairly straightforward plot, but the twists and turns that arise from it are, to say the least, silly.<br />This is slapstick at its finest. It is roaringly funny filk songs sung by the most wildly improbable cast one can imagine. It's Klingons in formal Earth-style tuxes and dresses. It's a landing crew soaked in replicated strawberry milkshake. It's a dominatrix leading a Busby-style musical scene. It's Bones totally hung over and a Klingon fed to a laundry chute.<br />I can well imagine that not all fans are going to get into this. It solidly pokes fun at everything Star Trek fandom has revered for 20 years. It's not serious; it's barely even plausible. But that's part of the fun for me. If you like your SF seasoned with more than the average amount of humor, you may find this to be fun as well. Probably its only detraction is that I didn't know all the songs being referenced. I'm probably just too young!	2002-08-16
US	47311361	R1SHE5ARSOD8SD	0802076327	150797603	Pleyn Delit: Medieval Cookery for Modern Cooks	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Excellent resource for those interested in medieval food..	This was my very first medieval-food book. To my amazement, it actually works well as a &quot;mundane&quot; cookbook too. The recipes are presented with the primary source they come from first (translated if the source isn't in at least somewhat-recognizable English), with a redaction following.<br />Not all the redactions are easy to work with, and sometimes the results are.. well.. uneven (watch out for the sage sauce one that calls for chopped boiled eggs). I suspect that three people making the same recipe would come out with three different dishes. That said, some recipes are just mouthwatering -- a thickened wine sauce for meats went over well at one feast I helped with, and most of the vegetable recipes are tasty and easy to prepare.<br />A decent bibliography is included with the work, as well as an analysis of period spices and spice mixes. I'd recommend this to anybody interested in medieval cooking -- it dispels a lot of myths and presents a number of dishes that prove that we haven't changed all that much.	2002-08-15
US	47311361	R1VD2V7SIPQ2BD	0847822230	542709122	Hidden Tuscany: Unusual Destinations and Secret Places	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Absolutely delightful.	This large but not-too-thick book details a number of beautiful and little-known places in Tuscany, ranging over the entire region. This isn't actually a travel book per se -- it doesn't tell you contact information, for example, or even if these places are open to the general public. It does, however, tell you about places in Tuscany that tourists probably never ever get to, to wit: The Refuge of the White Monks at Monte Oliveto Maggiore, built in 1313, with its vaulted white halls filled with frescoes of cats and mounted archers; the lush, almost surreally beautiful gardens of Villa Garzoni in Lucca; the thousands of treasures of all sorts in the Museum of Silver in Palazzo Pitti; the Florentine Botanical Museum; the inlaid treasures of the Museo delle Pietre Dure, including shots of inlay artists at their craft; a silk factory; and many other things, probably 30 to 40 in all. The pictures are lavish and beautifully made, and the text is lyrical and pleasant on the eyes. I'd never even heard of ANY of these places, so reading this book was quite a delicious experience.<br />I wouldn't get this as a serious travel guide, but it piques the imagination. There may be things here you'll want to find on your next trip to Tuscany.	2002-08-12
US	47311361	R24I1OOLVRFV05	0226290328	940651386	A Taste of Ancient Rome	Books	5	23	27	N	N	An accessible and enjoyable cookbook and history book.	Here we have a small collection of redacted Roman recipes, along with explanations of ingredients and concepts and some modern adaptations.<br />Frankly, I think it was quite cool. I particularly got a lot out of the explanation of garum -- it really changed my mind about a lot of things I used to think about Roman food.<br />The few recipes I've tried from here turned out well, though I'm not sure I'd want to try them all. Some sound a bit bizarre and are probably included as a culture-shock device. For the average home cook, I'm not sure I'd consider this a must-have unless that cook were very VERY adventurous. But for the historian looking for a sourcebook, this looks like a keeper. Thoroughly enjoyable and well-written.	2002-08-12
US	47311361	R1WENOIPZHNDES	0684818701	422504912	The All New All Purpose: Joy of Cooking	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Consistent, time-tested -- THE cookbook every human needs.	I actually have both the original and the new JoC. This one's a vast improvement over the original. This one's updated with all the new foods we're all used to now that we just didn't have 20 years ago, like star fruit and jerk rubs. And it revises recipes from the original -- the cornbread recipe now includes a &quot;northern&quot; and a &quot;southern&quot; version, with the &quot;southern&quot; version actually resembling authentic cornbread.<br />This is the first cookbook I ever bought. It is still the seminal reference work for cooks. From how to skin squirrels to making hard candy to how to roast turkeys, anything you want to know about any food, it's in here. I've probably cooked dozens, if not hundreds, of the recipes in this book over the years, and haven't been disappointed yet. Every recipe is tested and consistent -- and that's probably the best thing you can say about this book. It's consistent. It's also the primo information source on food ingredients, from types of flour to varieties of pears. Due to its scope, individual sections are somewhat limited, but they are effective at piqueing the imagination. The book also assumes a small amount of skill on the part of the reader -- the brand-new cook will find plenty here that is do-able, but some things will look intimidating. That said, rest assured that *nothing* in here is outside the ability of the average home cook.<br />In short, I have no reservations at all about wholeheartedly recommending this book to every single cook reading this.	2002-07-05
US	47311361	RJTHAGZ8SK7NE	0898158923	282528690	White Trash Cooking II: Recipes for Gatherins (Vol 2)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Not just a cookbook -- a sociological foray	Just as in the original \\"White Trash Cooking\\", there are recipes here, but more of an emphasis on cooking for groups. The various situations that call for group food are presented -- quilting bees, funerals, reunions, obligatory holidays. Each chapter is prefaced by a short story illustrating the heart of white trash. The photos are truly astounding, and as in the first book, a big part of the book's appeal. These people don't ever apologize for being white-trash -- they're simple, unvarnished, and neighborly. So is their food.<br />The recipes are even more outrageously white-trashy than in the first book -- while there are several recipes I tried from the first, there aren't as many that I'd call accessible in this one. I also find dialect-writing difficult to follow. Still, the last chapter is truly touching: An eloquent plea for people to cook with their own hands, instead of relying on store-bought \\"mummafied\\" food. Well said!	2002-07-05
US	47311361	R28LHA18NOS8J5	0130856975	528332581	Food Magic: A Warm, Friendly Cookbook for People Who Are Passionate About What They Eat	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This has always been one of my favorite cookbooks.	Taking a gentle, friendly tone, this book is exactly what a budding cook needs to see. Its recipes are, to be charitable, eclectic -- some you will instantly warm to, while others sound horrible (mostly because they're European/British and very outside middle-American experience, not because they're bizarre in and of themselves). But the book itself doesn't preach following a recipe slavishly. It teaches you to make your own recipes and variations on recipes. Though not long, it is prettily packaged and attractively presented. And it does live up to its title -- the writing is, indeed, warm, friendly, and passionate.<br />The recipes themselves are easy to deal with. The dozen or so I've tried have turned out well -- and its suggestions for spaghetti sauce have become my favorite way to prepare it. I thought this was a great book to add to my cooking bookshelf. I wholeheartedly recommend it.	2002-07-02
US	47311361	R3J03BAAVUVRC7	0446676640	560531694	The Snow Queen	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Space Opera on the grand scale.	Taking as its general guide the fairy tale \\"The Snow Queen\\", wherein a brave little girl rescues her childhood friend from the cold-hearted titular queen, the novel forms a fantastic journey that only minimally resembles the fairy tale -- yet has surprising similarities. Those who love space opera will not be disappointed here. The scope is grand and awe-inspiring, reminiscent of Asimov's great Empire. The characters are richly drawn and complex, with even the \\"bad guys\\" having understandable motivations.<br />The Snow Queen, Arienrhod, is desperately trying to keep her planet from losing its technological momentum as the planet moves away from the wormhole that connects it to the Empire for only 150 years at a time, which will bring about a long period of isolation. She is devious, artful, and wicked, and yet her general thrust isn't evil. She seems quite realistic to me. She spawns a clone, hoping that clone will be an exact duplicate of herself (in a merciless characterization that shows that the Queen may be devious, but she still doesn't know beans about the technology she's after). Moon, the clone, grows up with her lover and cousin, Sparks, but the two are separated, with Moon illegally leaving the planet and Sparks becoming the lover of the Snow Queen. Moon endures much hardship to get back to Sparks and win him back from her \\"mother\\", and she learns some interesting things about her planet and her people along the way.<br />Vinge has come up with a believable mix of sf and fantasy. There are some cliches here (such as the \\"Old Empire\\" that seems to figure into EVERY grand epic), but they work within the context Vinge has created. Vinge has a gift for dialog and narrative that has rarely been duplicated, and quite a good hand as a storyteller. Her stories move without making you aware that you're BEING moved to her chosen destination. And oh my goodness, if I *ever* come up with a backstory half as cool as what Vinge has created for Carbuncle, I'll be happy to let you know about it. Very clever. And very thought-provoking. Vinge has created a series that actually *says* something. That's quite an achievement.to let you know about it. Very clever. And very thought-provoking. Vinge has created a series that actually *says* something. That's quite an achievement.	2002-06-23
US	47311361	R1LSL9D1LONJJV	0345335651	873766982	Queen of Sorcery (The Belgariad, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An enjoyable second outing with Garion &amp;Co..	I found this second book to be far more enjoyable than the first, though of course it doesn't make a lot of sense to read this one without reading the first one (I don't think they'd stand alone all that well). In this one, Garion discovers during the flight to recover whatever that thing is his aunt and grandfather are chasing that he is, in fact, a powerful sorcerer. He tangles with a bunch of bad guys, including a fascinating snake-queen, and wreaks a little magical havoc on people.<br />Garion's a well-drawn character -- a realistic, pouty young man who would vastly prefer that his cup had gone to another. His aunt is a force of nature (the description of her pounding through the halls of one of the bad guys looking for him are not to be missed, or forgotten), and his grandfather is an affable enough mix between Talen and Gandalf. This book adds the temperamental Princess Ce'Nedra to the cast -- and she's fun to watch as well, a complex and mercurial personality. For my money, the best part of the book takes place in Nyissa -- it is a fascinating place, and Eddings lavishes the best of his art on it and its denizens. Overall, a good book.	2002-06-18
US	47311361	R2IBU1TWX8VFYK	0345335511	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good introduction to the series	Unlike some series, which have about 120 pages of NOTHING happening before the plot begins...,this more or less starts quickly and moves underway. Garion, a plain scullery boy, and his aunt, the regal-but-oddly-domestic Pol, join an oddly assorted group of characters to chase after something they won't tell Garion about.<br />I like the sense of mystery in the book. Garion really has no idea who he is or what his group is after. I also like the relationships between Garion, his aunt, and his grandfather. All three are drawn richly and realistically, and are well worth the reading. On the bad side, Eddings has a fascination with re-using characters and plotlines (there's a lot here fans will recognize from the \\"Elenium\\" series), and with using the same sorts of jokes (such as the phrase \\"an indifference to the finer points of property ownership\\"). Most of the cast have overly clever mouths and a penchant for irreverence and flip comments at the strangest moments, something you'll notice out of his other series as well. The supporting cast also tends to be almost interchangable, though not as badly as Sparhawk's traveling companions -- at least THESE characters have different accents. The series itself sounds about like a D&D outing (it's mentioned a few times in the series that the group is TOO assorted to avoid suspicion, something I wish D&D players realized themselves), with national Gods and strong nationalistic tendencies that reduce most characters to stereotypes.<br />That said, it's a fun read. Eddings moves his cast adeptly through a plot it's obvious he's spent a little time on, and the main characters are fun to watch. Those who get frustrated with overly clever characters and derivative plots may not like this, but I enjoy the series. This beginning book is just the first of many fun outings with Garion and the gang.	2002-06-18
US	47311361	R39W6ME6AZTE4K	0345335457	562872590	Magician's Gambit (The Belgariad, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the better books in the series	I enjoyed this midpoint book quite a lot. It has a lot of action in it to make up for Eddings' few flaws. Garion, in this installment, goes with his aunt and grandfather to fetch what he now knows to be a talisman of great power, and to kill the talisman's thief. Garion's power continues to grow, and his affection for the little princess Ce'Nedra continues to confuse him (and her).<br />The characterization of the relationship between Ce'Nedra and Garion is masterful, if a little stereotypical (do ANY real teenagers argue that way? I argued a lot, but I recall being a bit more quiet about it), but that doesn't detract from its fun. There are numerous other good scenes in the book, culminating in a classic wizard's duel. Probably the only real bad point in the book (and in the series as a whole) is the introduction of the angelic child Errand (I didn't like Flute, either, so there). But overall, I found the book enjoyable.	2002-06-18
US	47311361	R34T4DVH0SDUWF	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An outstanding work of comedy!	I love this book! I re-read it every year or so. I've never seen such a giddy-paced or tight comedy. Every so often, just to show you they can, the authors throw in a zinger (as in their discussion of how old the Earth is, a dry essay which ends with &quot;This also proves that the Earth is a Libra&quot;). The writing is for the most part easy to follow with careful reading, with an interesting assortment of characters. The book is a fast read, which isn't so great because at the end, I wanted WAY more.<br />The religious theories espoused here won't deeply offend anybody, I don't think (they're pretty absurd, on the whole), but they *will* make one think. I was Pentecostal when I first found &quot;Good Omens&quot;, and while I cannot claim it is wholly responsible for my unconversion, it gave me quite a bit of food for thought. I really couldn't find any holes in their logic. They start with a fairly tight premise and roll on from there. There are neat little touches that make perfect sense (like demons having the same wings angels have, &quot;except better groomed&quot;).<br />I do hope these authors collaborate again, if not on &quot;Good Omens&quot; related works then somewhere. They're clearly a force to be reckoned with.	2002-06-13
US	47311361	R2JRRW3MAHGRZ8	0813367085	7944165	Religions of Star Trek	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An interesting background book for "Star Trek" fans	This is not an exploration of individual religions in the \\"Star Trek\\" mythos, but an examination of the Big Questions about religion as they are answered by Star Trek. I found the writing interesting, with lots of examples to back up the theories within.<br />Religion has changed a lot in \\"Star Trek\\" since Kirk's day. This book traces that change through chapters regarding the existence of God and evil. How the different races in Star Trek view these questions is also presented and contrasted with humanity. Since \\"Next Generation\\" is the longest-running series, naturally it is represented more than TOS, DS9 and Voyager. This was printed before \\"Enterprise\\", but I hope it will be updated a few years from now to include \\"Enterprise\\"'s viewpoints. Frankly, it's fascinating to see religious-theory experts take on a project of this nature. I'd love to see more.<br />I think most \\"Star Trek\\" fans would be very interested in this work, as would students of religion in culture.	2002-06-13
US	47311361	RDHIGNC0XNRCC	0500051011	960001459	The Tarim Mummies: Ancient China and the Mystery of the Earliest Peoples from the West	Books	4	12	16	N	N	A fascinating look at one of our modern mysteries.	This thick volume attempts to answer the question of how a bunch of Caucasian mummies ended up in central China. Scholarly and far-reaching, it delves into linguistics, archaeology, religion, and other disciplines.<br />It didn't actually dwell on the mummies of Tarim much. Most of it's book scholarship, not field investigation. It tries to show how various populations in China got where they did, using whatever means it can. In this regard, it succeeds. But I wish it'd talked about the actual mummies more than it did. I got occasional glimpses, but nothing more.	2002-06-13
US	47311361	R31HL47D9733G5	0811832414	863561385	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook: Dating and Sex	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great humor, but not actually super useful.	I'm hoping the &quot;Worst Case&quot; series doesn't degenerate much further. The original actually *was* pretty useful, but this, the third or so in the series, is just humor, with little that's actually useful on a date.<br />What are my dating worst-case scenarios? Getting spaghetti sauce on one's shirt, getting too drunk, inadvertently bringing up something controversial, discovering some Awful Truth about your date that makes you want to get up and run away, etc. Some of these are addressed (&quot;How to leave a date in a hurry&quot;, &quot;How to tell if your date is really married&quot;), but too few to make sense. The rest are just silly (like &quot;how to tell if your date is really a woman&quot;). Frankly, I view this book as an enjoyable foray into bizarre problems, but not actually something useful. For all that, it IS terribly funny. The style is different from the earlier two books, but it's still hilarious imagining someone in these situations (like a guy running around a girl's apartment hoping to figure out her name from her mail before she wakes up.. advice which totally disregards that a lot of women don't go by their &quot;official&quot; first names!).	2002-06-13
US	47311361	R3D3RQY26YP02W	0380729342	425070591	Tales from Watership Down	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An uneven &quot;sequel&quot;...	I'm not entirely sure about this sequel Adams has written. &quot;Watership Down&quot; is without a doubt one of my favorite books in the world. I've literally read my way through several copies. I awaited the sequel breathlessly and pounced on it when it came out in paperback. <br />Overall it's great. One section devotes itself to El-ahrairah, the Prince Rabbit, in a long series of connected short stories. One section devotes itself to the Watership Down warren after the battle with Efrafa. These are enjoyable, with the same deft touches one sees in other Adams books. They're not as well-written as &quot;Watership Down&quot;, being altogether fluffier, but that almost goes without saying. There's less of a sense of urgency about the stories, I suppose.<br />The middle section, however, is a disappointment. Preachy and flakey, it is a demonstration of the very wackiest of wacky New Age &quot;We are the World&quot; mishmash beliefs, with forced storylines galore. Only the most fervent ecological nuts could possibly think this has any value as narrative. Other than that, the stories are fun to read -- and Kehaar's in the last section, so what else could one ask?	2002-06-06
US	47311361	R1B7Z54F5T4LSR	006440031X	711809679	The First Four Years (Little House)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The most honest entry in the entire series..	I always got the impression, reading the Little House series, that the events in Laura's life had been sanitized. When I got older, I found out that I was right -- all sorts of important details got left out because Laura felt they were too personal, or too unpleasant to share, and usually both, like her baby brother's death.<br />Because this book wasn't ever meant to be part of the series, it ends up being the most honest. Laura's life here is presented as is, with no shame or excuses. Her miscarriage, the great debt trouble she and her husband had, terrifying run-ins with Indians, her day-to-day hassles learning how to run a household, and, worst of all, a devastating fire, are all presented in Laura's usual lean prose. Other Little House books concern themselves as much with how life was lived as with Laura's story, but this is more Laura's story and less a treatise on how to do pioneer things. Thus, it is the shortest book in the series (except for \\"On the Way Home\\", which I'm not sure counts). But to me, it's one of the most satisfying in the series, though I suspect that not everybody will like it, since it IS so different from the rest of the series. (It is perfectly appropriate for children, in my opinion, with no sex, bad language, or non-farm-related violence.)	2002-06-06
US	47311361	R2UXZOWQ65MKAM	0802130720	353844465	100 Selected Poems	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A great introduction to e.e. cummings' work	This slim volume is attractively packaged and presented, with a good range of his work arranged chronologically. Only 100 poems are reprinted here, a tiny drop in his total output. But they're the ones you know best, including the cowboy poem we all had to read in Texas in high school (WHY they made us read that one, when there were so many better that he wrote, I will never know).<br />I have to admit, I like his earlier work much better -- the further it goes, the weirder his poetry gets, till idea is almost entirely divorced from form. But I got this as an introduction to his work, and it fulfills that role admirably. I felt I'd gotten a good idea of his range and technique, and that I'd seen the most important of his works. Those who want a basic e.e. cummings introduction will not be disappointed here.	2002-06-06
US	47311361	RSCJS42RV6PMC	0765342308	119454509	Briar Rose	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A powerful, lyrical tale of the Holocaust.	Though not long by novel standards, this is a powerful, magnetic read. It's a quiet, meditative, exploratory tale, almost a detective novel, but without a real whodunnit. I found it deeply satisfying.<br />A young woman's grandmother dies, leaving behind a legacy of bizarre mementoes and a statement that she (the grandmother) is the princess in the oddly altered version of \\"Sleeping Beauty\\" story she has been telling her granddaughters their whole lives. The heroine spends the rest of the novel trying to ascertain the truth of that statement, and it leads her to the Holocaust, Poland, concentration camps, and more. Characterization is spot-on, as always for Yolen, who has a gift for capturing a person's essence with just a few brushstrokes. The plot is tight and moves along briskly and without the reader noticing -- and it actually sounds plausible. Readers who prefer whiz-bang action or fantasy will find this a different kind of story, but I can't imagine anybody actually disliking this book.	2002-06-06
US	47311361	R36T1XR9JWTUBS	0886779537	361362638	Tailchaser's Song (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great book - young adults particularly will love this	Told through a cat's eyes, \\"Tailchaser's Song\\" reads like good mythology. It's a simple story, at the beginning: Tailchaser, a tomcat, goes searching for his soon-to-be-mate Hushpad, who has gone missing, and has many adventures as he seeks her. He journeys through a world filled with intelligent animals ranging from dogs to squirrels to birds to more, eventually meeting up with the source of much evil in the world. Tailchaser comes of age and learns much about himself and about the value of friendship -- and about what love really is.<br />I encountered this book first as a 20something, and I've read my way through two copies so far. Williams is a fantastic storyteller, with an artist's touch. His descriptions and characterizations are excellent, as always. I'd recommend this without hesitation to anybody interested in a good yarn. Even those who don't normally get into \\"fuzzy animal\\" stories may like this -- it's really about way more than just talking kitties.	2002-06-06
US	47311361	RHARI7311CO7O	0486401782	556478946	Blackwork (Dover Embroidery, Needlepoint)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	An excellent treatment of the subject	I admit it. I'm scared of blackwork. But this book makes it seem not quite so intimidating. Lots of examples of it are included, in numerous b/w illustrations and photos of extant Tudor/Elizabethan work (there's modern stuff, too, but I'm not as interested in that). There are also instructions for doing blackwork, though the explanations are a bit hard to follow in places. Overall, this is the best treatment of the subject I've seen yet. As an acquaintance of mine has said, while it's still in print, get it! Or you may find yourself hunting for it when it's gone.<br />I seriously don't know /any/ blackworkers who don't have this book.	2002-06-06
US	47311361	R147GD6PR9KG9I	0380729342	425070591	Tales from Watership Down	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An uneven &quot;sequel&quot;...	I'm not entirely sure about this sequel Adams has written. &quot;Watership Down&quot; is without a doubt one of my favorite books in the world. I've literally read my way through several copies. I awaited the sequel breathlessly and pounced on it when it came out in paperback.<br />Overall it's great. One section devotes itself to El-ahrairah, the Prince Rabbit, in a long series of connected short stories. One section devotes itself to the Watership Down warren after the battle with Efrafa. These are enjoyable, with the same deft touches one sees in other Adams books. They're not as well-written as &quot;Watership Down&quot;, being altogether fluffier, but that almost goes without saying. There's less of a sense of urgency about the stories, I suppose.<br />The middle section, however, is a disappointment. Preachy and flakey, it is a demonstration of the very wackiest of wacky New Age &quot;We are the World&quot; mishmash beliefs, with forced storylines galore. Only the most fervent ecological nuts could possibly think this has any value as narrative. Other than that, the stories are fun to read -- and Kehaar's in the last section, so what else could one ask?	2002-06-06
US	47311361	RIT6TVZVXFYAU	0802130720	353844465	100 Selected Poems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great introduction to e.e. cummings' work	This slim volume is attractively packaged and presented, with a good range of his work arranged chronologically. Only 100 poems are reprinted here, a tiny drop in his total output. But they're the ones you know best, including the cowboy poem we all had to read in Texas in high school (WHY they made us read that one, when there were so many better that he wrote, I will never know). <br />I have to admit, I like his earlier work much better -- the further it goes, the weirder his poetry gets, till idea is almost entirely divorced from form. But I got this as an introduction to his work, and it fulfills that role admirably. I felt I'd gotten a good idea of his range and technique, and that I'd seen the most important of his works. Those who want a basic e.e. cummings introduction will not be disappointed here.	2002-06-06
US	47311361	R1RJ1LNMQXOCB4	0060974788	825546119	If You Can't Live Without Me, Why Aren't You Dead Yet?!	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A slightly uneven book of feminist humor	Heimel is brilliant. I do love her work. Her essay on &quot;Clothes and PMS&quot;, included in this book, stands as one of the funniest things I have ever read (&quot;I am a symphony of reds!&quot; she sings, before she is saved from herself). Her slightly embittered, I-don't-even-want-to-know approach to life rings true.<br />The only place the book sags is when it tries to be too serious. Heimel should stick to comedy. Some people just can't be trusted with biting social commentary. About a third of the book seems to fall within this category. I skipped most of that. But the rest is pure genius, with insight and wit.	2002-06-05
US	47311361	R21OO38CRSJ1VN	0809477394	311631866	All the Rage (Library of Curious and Unusual Facts)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	An uneven review of bizarre fashions.	Some of the information is fascinating, but it is haphazardly organized and uneven. I also wasn't happy that many of the portraits appeared to be repainted (ie, not the original portraits) with 20th-century mistakes in them.<br />Skipping around from the middle ages up to more or less the present day, the book shows all sorts of odd fashions, from corsets to plastic surgery to foot-binding. It's a thin book, long on illustrations and with text being mostly in the form of sound bites, like most of these Time-Life style books are. I got it primarily as a novelty, and that's about what it is. The authors don't cite sources, but a determined researcher could probably figure out where most of this came from. It's an interesting first look at extreme fashion through the years.	2002-06-05
US	47311361	RY4GT9JQBDIP6	188491053X	54092215	The Art & Craft of Novel Writing	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Without question the best resource book a writer could have.	This book approaches writing as a mechanical process and gives solid, concrete advice on topics such as characterization, opening scenes, and lots, lots more. The author uses many examples to make his points. Though not a large book, it is rich with non-mystical techniques and tips (I especially liked his advice regarding using small details for characterization instead of knocking a character's personality over the reader's head with lots of narrative, and the advice regarding how to pick a POV to write from). I seriously cannot think of a single other resource (besides a good dictionary) that would be more useful to an aspiring writer -- every single aspect of fiction writing is covered here.<br />For a while, this was one of the featured books in the Writer's Digest Book Club, and for good reason. If you want to improve your fiction, do not pass up this book.	2002-06-04
US	47311361	R3IRDVU0X7OQ5V	0061073628	665059037	A Night Without Armor	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Uneven first effort. Some great, some very shoddy.	Reads in many places like an adolescent's third-period efforts. Much of it is sentimental, obvious, trite, overly narrative, and unschooled. Too many people think that poetry is purely subjective, and Jewel here falls into that trap. (Also, she has gotten the idea that a lot of high schoolers have about weird line breaks being the defining factor of a poem.. sigh.)<br />But there's a lot of genius here, too. With some nuts and bolts techniques under her belt, and some more years behind her, this young lady may become a force to be reckoned with. Her command of imagery is primal (such as one poem's longing for a man &quot;with wild things in his hair&quot;) and her choices of analogies and metaphors is, simply, terrific. I can easily put up with the high-school level stuff to get to the good stuff. In her foreward, she admits that she'd never have been published had she not been a megastar singer, which is, sadly, true; she also says that she included the fluff poems deliberately, the wisdom of which I question. I am hoping very much that we see more out of Jewel, and this time, I hope she takes it a bit more seriously and includes only quality works.<br />Poetry buffs should not avoid this work just because it is written by the famous rock star Jewel.	2002-06-04
US	47311361	R31DQBOTH02BRT	0688170129	590730677	Heaven's Harlots: My Fifteen Years in a Sex Cult	Books	4	23	25	N	N	An interesting look at one of the more outrageous cults.	The Children of God, one of the more bizarre semi-Christian cults out there, makes for some of the most interesting reading in comparative religions. This autobiography details one woman's descent into one of the cult's weirder periods. There is much here for students of cultism and religion -- the man who headed the religion sounds like a complete fruitcake, so half the \\"fun\\" is figuring out what possible appeal his philosophies could have for anybody remotely normal. Miriam tries to answer that question, and I think she did a good job of it.<br />Miriam's story is filled with regret and apologies for her involvement, but it is honest. I about cheered for her when she finally stood up for herself and her family and said \\"I'm out of here!\\" She joined as a high schooler and was in the cult for 15 years. Though only a few years of that were spent as an official prostitute, the entire story reads as one long journey of sexual repression at the hands of a group that seems more obsessed with deviance the further along it gets (something else she addresses quite well). Sadly, at its end, Miriam herself is a damaged-but-recovering soul, frayed around the edges as so many ex-cultists are regardless of what cult they've left, and uncertain how to approach religion. This, too, is good information.<br />I think this book would be worthwhile for any student of religion or anybody interested in cults. I don't think it would be appropriate for underage readers, but it's safe reading for those who get ruffled easily. There's nothing too graphic in it.	2002-06-04
US	47311361	R2E3356KKOLAA2	1582971366	249567139	The Poet's Handbook	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Simply the best.	For many, poetry is a purely subjective art form, impossible to judge and critique. Unfortunately, most people write terrible poetry. For the rest of us, there's Judson Jerome's impeccable handbook. Taking the view that poetry is a mechanical skill much like pottery, Jerome gently but facilely teaches how to construct a poem that *works* -- that is credible, accessible, and accomplishes what its author had in mind. This is very much a nuts-and-bolts book. It does not take the view that poetry is mystical or spiritual, thankfully (I'm sure there are dozens of books that'll offer that). Instead, it teaches the language and technique skills one needs to make poetry that isn't embarassing or fruity.&lt;	2002-06-04
US	47311361	R2YK81H92005HX	0140239677	177316168	The Sun King	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Witty and personable, good introduction to the subject.	Here's \\"Lifestyles of the Obscenely Wealthy and Powerful\\"! I admit I'd never read much about this period of history (I'm fond of joking that my in-depth knowledge of politics and history more or less ends with Elizabeth I's death), but the bit I read at the bookstore made this book irresistible. I passed up an Alison Weir for this, but I don't regret the choice at all. It is both charming and knowledgable, with a witty, personable, almost gossipy tone.<br />There's a lot of information here, packaged with lots of pictures and glossy pages. It is a lovely book to look at purely on an aesthetic level. But do take the time to actually read it! Though sparse in areas, it is a rich look at the life of Louis, and at the lifestyle of a courtier of his day. The creation of Versailles is gone into in much detail, as are sexual politics and wartime attitudes. Mostly this focuses on Louis' personal life and that of his court and how Versailles came about, so there isn't much here about actual wars or about international politics. But what there is is just stupendous. I'd call this a must-have for a beginner in French history. I'm very glad I got it.	2002-06-04
US	47311361	R1I7ETSAMEZWKT	0618154027	545294814	The Lord of the Rings Official Movie Guide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Very pretty, but not exceptionally informative.	This was fabulous to have before &quot;Fellowship of the Ring&quot; came out, but it was really just an appetite-whetter. It's got very pretty pictures and some good interviews, but there isn't anything here you wouldn't have seen already from the six gazillion &quot;making of&quot; shows floating around on cable just before the movie premiered. There's no real depth to it at all; it isn't even very thick. That said, it really *is* very pretty, with lots of nice pictures and decent writing. I don't regret getting it, but would I have bought it after seeing all the &quot;making of&quot; shows and seeing the movie itself? Very doubtful.	2002-05-24
US	47311361	R12OQABIRR5L5	0441002692	538454130	The Godmother	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Well-written but somehow not quite there for me	Scarborough is, without a doubt, a talented writer (as if one needs me to tell one that). Her prose just about sparkles; it is a delight to read. It's too bad this story is so.. I don't know.. not up to par. It's like a poorly-fitted dress on a supermodel.<br />The titular Godmother is the best of the characters here. She swoops in at the behest of the heroine (a typical do-gooder a la &quot;Briar Rose&quot;'s Becca, matryr complex, filled with love for the downtrodden, hardworking and without a romantic interest in sight, etc.) to save the entire city. Along the way, she rescues people who closely resemble characters from old fairy tales (the passage in the book that I liked best was her appearance as Kwan Yin to an Oriental gangbanger -- powerful and entirely believable, but alas, probably lost on most people), like &quot;Red Riding Hood&quot; and &quot;Hansel and Gretel&quot;.<br />It felt like the story took the easy way out in many ways. Of course Hansel and Gretel was about molestation, for example. Many vignettes were too easy, too manipulative, too baldly obvious. Some characters were very stock in nature. The end spiralled out of control fast, coming to a conclusion that I had to read twice to believe I'd seen. I don't get into stories that are too pat, too obviously forced together, but this had that feel, in spades. And the bit about magic being doled out irked me for some reason -- very hokey and totally unnecessary, particularly since, having introduced the device, Scarborough promptly stomps it for the whole rest of the story. She could have thought of a better way to lessen the use of magic.<br />Would I read it again? Not likely. Scarborough has written many better books, but this isn't one of the better efforts.	2002-05-21
US	47311361	R1LX0NY5B71Y00	0786889160	366664445	No Shirt. No Shoes....No Problem!	Books	5	7	14	N	N	I can't say enough about this man's style of comedy...	In a world glutted with obscenity and gratuitous violence and hatred, here's a good-hearted, only slightly racy comic who can still make you laugh so hard you'll pee your pants. Though the text humor differs quite a bit from the onstage humor (chiefly in pacing -- his onstage show, of necessity, has a driven energy level and non-stop humor, while this book has the feel of a campfire yarn, told with all the necessary changes of mood that any good story would have), it still translates to funny, as well as occasionally thought-provoking. The humor works best, I think, on Southerners (people not familiar with and sympathetic to how the South works may find themselves looking around all uptight, muttering \\"I don't see what's so funny\\").<br />One can hardly say that one sense of humor fits all, so I'll just say this: It's fairly clean humor that pokes fun at Southern quirks, with a good storytelling style and irreverence. The book stays well away from the touchiest political/social topics of the day, concentrating on stuff we can all meet on -- hating one's day job, finding the love of one's life and discovering her butt is always cold, why hunting is ridiculous but considered cool by many Southern men, stuff like that. Ostensibly it's a biography, but it meanders quite a bit, duplicating some things from the stage shows. I liked it, personally.	2002-05-21
US	47311361	R1LUZAP5ZDQKVD	0441183719	64677696	Elfquest: Journey to Sorrows End	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautifully written, lyrical, mythical.	How do you rate something like this? Wendy Pini has an exquisite sense of pacing, a master's command of the English language, and a grand story to tell. Without hesitation I would recommend any of her works.<br />This is the first book in the series. Told in text form, it stands easily on its own -- people who don't have or want the graphic art series won't miss anything here. It tells the story of a band of elves who are persecuted out of their home and must find a new one before they die in the desert. Along the way they encounter a new band of elves, hostile trolls, and some even more hostile humans. Sure, they're elves and they're cute, but these elves have courage, heart, and compassion -- they are as accessible and understandable as we are, metaphors for what we wish we could be.<br />Unlike many novelizations of graphic art, this book is accessible to newcomers and doesn't leave out important things. It expands some parts of the graphic art series, adding details like background, private thoughts, and extra interactions.	2002-05-15
US	47311361	R398Z3NXP482UM	0936861762	387987652	Elfquest Reader's Collection #8b: In All But Blood	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A delightful addition to the EQ series.	From the exquisite cover art to the outstanding stories contained in the graphic novel, this is one of the best EQ collections I've ever seen. The art is uniformly stunning -- EQ has finally found artists worthy of Wendy Pini's example. And the stories are well-written.<br />The collection covers the relationship between Cutter and Skywise, two male elves who consider themselves &quot;brothers in all but blood&quot;. Different aspects of their relationship are revealed, including their &quot;sort of Recognition&quot;, and Skywise's fear and loathing of the idea of Recognizing a mate. The tone of the stories varies from serious to playful (I think the image of a troll beauty shimmying out of her dress has permanently scarred my retinas). The stories are all black and white art, but one doesn't miss the colors with art and storytelling this lush.	2002-05-15
US	47311361	R1YOU3988VELA5	0936861134	512152150	The Big Elfquest Gatherum	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great addition to an EQphile's library...	Or really, anybody interested in fantasy storytelling. The Gatherum really doesn't have anything really to do with the RPG -- I don't remember a thing in it that'd really help an EQ gamer out. It's really just a bunch of background material -- and by &quot;bunch&quot;, I mean hundreds of pages of photos, interviews, drawings, background, source material, and reference stuff. This isn't so much a guidebook to Elfquest as an illumination of how it came to be. Some of the essays are written by the Pinis, and others are by admirers and friends.<br />EQ readers will probably appreciate the essay about how Recognition works, but there's lots more there to love.	2002-05-15
US	47311361	R1F0PSOX3U9ZN5	0441002943	960854490	Elfquest 02: The Quest Begins	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outstanding continuation of the classic EQ story...	This is the second book in the series. Written in text form, it covers book 2 of the graphic art series. It is, if anything, even richer and better written than the first book in the text series. The book covers what happens to the Wolfrider elves after they settle down with the desert elves. After a traumatic encounter with stray humans, the Wolfrider chief decides to see if he can find other elves to unite them against what is clearly becoming a major problem -- human invasion of the elves' homes.<br />The idea is simple, but mythic. Covering much land, the questing elves run into not-so-hostile trolls and friendly humans of various sorts, forcing them to go against their grain in many ways. As usual, the writing is lush and descriptive, painting evocative pictures with words. Elves are more than capable of bigotry, false assumptions, and violence, as well as fear and hesitation. One elf has to confront his longstanding hatred of humans; another has to confront her terrible fear of the unknown. The conflicts set up in this novel are amazing to watch unfold.<br />Best of all, the novel stands on its own easily. It expands very much on what happened in the graphic novel, to the point that it doesn't feel like a novelization at all. I would suggest this book wholeheartedly both to people who don't own the graphic novels, and to those wishing to learn more about what happened in the graphic novels.	2002-05-15
US	47311361	R1JRT7CTG0GOLB	0394729641	991661615	Montaillou: The Promised Land of Error	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Outstanding case studies of commoners' lives.	This is definitely academic reading. Concerning itself chiefly with a cluster of tiny villages in the extreme south of France, the book takes details of villagers' confessions to the Inquisition to show what life was like for them. I found it to be very well-written, lucid, and not difficult to digest.<br />Ladurie (Amazon misspells his name continually as \\"Ladruie\\" -- either that or the book cover misspells it) extrapolates some amazing things from these confessions. Ideas of time and space, how villagers thought of the home and the family, concepts of sexuality and social status.. there's a lot here, extensively footnooted and extensively supported. As someone's said, this is definitely not light reading.<br />Ladurie spends quite a bit of time talking about religion, which is logical considering that Inquisition files are his source material. I did not detect a bias against either Catholicism or Catharism. Since his focus isn't actually religion, however, but an allover view of life in a remote, isolated 14th-century French/Spanish village, I wouldn't consider this specifically a resource for the study of Catharism. It is, however, an excellent resource for understanding people in a remote, isolated 14th-century French/Spanish village.	2002-05-15
US	47311361	R2YB9GNJS17MSL	075092019X	297708346	Sex in Elizabethan England (Sutton Illustrated History Paperbacks)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Somewhat dry, but interesting details.	I found the book to be knowledgable and thorough, but extremely dry and hard to read. I could not believe that someone could make a subject like this so dry. ...P>That said, you won't find too many straightforward sources like this, and it's got some neat photos and portrait reproductions that make the book worth getting. The information contained herein isn't particularly suited to children, but it isn't shocking or titillating. It reads more like a lecture by a very prim history prof. Anybody of any morals should be able to digest this without dying of offensensitivity.	2002-05-02
US	47311361	R1X9RBVZQ6ULHV	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Here's your quintessential "What Would Machiavelli Do?" book	I just had an interesting discussion with a young man who was convinced that Machiavelli was evil. I found out he'd never even tried to read \\"The Prince\\", which is the quintessential guide to Machiavelli's political mind. This young man's preconception is a very common one, alas.<br />In this book, presented in short chapters, one finds a guidebook to taking power and ruling a small country. Nowhere does it suggest using excessive force, nor does it suggest gratuitous violence. It is straightforward and pragmatic. Machiavelli suggests keeping one's goal, political power, in mind all the time, and is not afraid to discuss unpleasant ways of getting and keeping that power. It is the essence of ruthlessness, but what politician doesn't do this every day? In every competitive, demanding occupation, participants must keep goals in mind constantly and work completely toward those goals. Machiavelli was just one of the first to codify how to do it. And codify he does -- the book is filled with suggestions on how to handle everything from whether to hire mercenary troops to how to make the commoners love you.<br />Though Machiavelli's writing is somewhat archaic and definitely rich in idea density, it is worth the read. I think everybody, from students to politicos to housekeepers to entrepreneurs, would benefit from the information contained herein. I do suggest getting a decent grounding in Italian history before the attempt.	2002-04-30
US	47311361	R1DLAWSHJ5STLQ	0812234324	215949172	The Romance of Adultery: Queenship and Sexual Transgression in Old French Literature (The Middle Ages Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very scholarly look at queenship in 12th century literatur	Make sure you know your medieval French literature, because this author is going to plunge right in. Using \\"Tristan and Iseult\\", \\"Lanval\\", the Arthurian romances, and various RL histories (like the lives of Eleanor of Aquitaine and Blanche of Castile), McCraken seeks to show how views of fidelity and queenship changed in literature over time. Her thesis appears to be that as time went on, queens' power grew and the succession of legitimate heirs became more important, making the queen's fidelity more important. She also hypothesizes that the queen's body was itself a reflection of the king's worthiness to govern -- if the queen cheated on the king, the king's power was put into question.<br />I say \\"appears to be\\" because much of the language here is extremely high-flown, dry, and ultra-academic (in the style parodied best by Bill Watterson in his \\"Calvin\\" comic strip). I'm from a very scholarly background and extremely well-read in the literature of this period, yet still found the very dense style of writing difficult to follow. I also don't know medieval French, and translations are not always given for McCraken's (numerous and copious) citations. This is a very high-flown academic resource, a very tightly niched work. I don't regret getting it (as those who follow my reviews know, I don't mind owning good niche works), but this book is not a general history, nor is it intended even for the casual student of medieval history. This book is for the serious student of 12th-century French literature. She does support her hypotheses with ample documentation (there is also an excellent bibliography), and definitely has improved my understanding of the literature. Just be ready to do a little work.<br />One thing should mention especially, being a garb-a-holic, was the book's discussion of clothing. The queens mentioned in the book have various changes of clothes depending on the effect they want to inspire, and the descriptions, taken from what amount to primary sources, are very yummy.es, are very yummy.	2002-04-30
US	47311361	R7KE8H00DRF0L	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A magical fantasy series..	You don't need to be religious to appreciate the magic and wonder that is Narnia. The religious symbolism is, at times, a distraction from the excellent storytelling (we are occasionally beaten bloody with the Aslan-as-Jesus bit), but overall, the stories are well-written and bear the mark of a master's hand. Taken on their own, the novels are as easy to approach and enjoy as the \\"Wrinkle in Time\\" and \\"Lord of the Rings\\" series, though written for a younger age group.<br />The novels do not occur chronologically, but the general story involves Aslan creating Narnia, which is then taken over by a witch from another world. Aslan's power brings 4 Earth children to Narnia to liberate it from the witch, after which Adventures Occur. The children return to Earth and then make periodic trips to Narnia, along with other Earth children on occasion. Eventually there is a huge war and Aslan destroys Narnia and recreates it as paradise. As I said, there's definite religious overtones here, but don't let that stop you from trying the series if you haven't already. Don't even let being a grown-up stop you from enjoying it -- I re-read the whole series about once a year. It is beautifully written and worth the effort -- one of those cultural tapestry things that everybody just ought to have read.	2002-04-30
US	47311361	RN4DKJXZA245B	0671554506	533514597	All My Patients Are under the Bed	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A touching autobiography and lots of cool cat stories	The late and dearly missed Dr. Camuti talks about his veterinarian practice in the big city, which concentrates on cats but which includes all sorts of other fauna. His stories are as much about the animals' kooky owners as the animals themselves, showing a touching side of wackiness. There are some famous people in here, but plenty of nearly-anonymous commoners as well.<br />His writing style is approachable and easily read, and the stories are unique -- you won't have seen anything like these elsewhere. This is not your typical &quot;cat stories&quot; book, all treacley and preachy and maudlin. This is a straightforward guy telling straightforward &quot;no [kidding], there I was&quot;-style war stories, and sounding just like a prototypical NYC veterinarian should.<br />Do be careful about adopting his advice, of course. Nowadays, we know feeding cats only ground beef is Very Bad For Them, and certainly we have no need of quarterly vitamin shots. This is 1950s medicine, with all that entails.	2002-04-30
US	47311361	R2YXGM15THCY7D	0064400018	507661724	Little House in the Big Woods (Little House, No 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fun to read, even for an adult	Don't look here for big huge plots -- this book is a slice-of-life book about daily life in a pioneer family. There's no plot to speak of, so I'm not sure a small child's attention would be captured by this sort of writing. However, for me, an adult who grew up with these books, it's almost like a return to a simpler, easier time, when your worst fear was wolves.<br />I probably plow through the entire series, from \\"Big Woods\\" to the \\"On the Road Home\\", once a year. As a bonus, I've taken up a number of handcrafts, and the information in \\"Big Woods\\", among other books, has helped me enormously in my endeavors to live more simply.<br />I really think all kids should be exposed to this book. The family values in it are commendable, and the writing is easy to understand at a kid level. But be prepared to work with the child on this book.. they're barraged with explosions and shapechanging robots, so they may need a little help to appreciate a calmer, quieter work like this.	2002-04-25
US	47311361	R1NQ8RP7CI5V1D	0391023624	156026846	2: Renaissance Dress in Italy 1400-1500 (The History of dress series)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A satisfying book	I recently found a copy of this book. It is drastically out of print and took almost a year to track down. But it was well worth the large sum it cost and the time it took to find.<br />It is a large book, some 250 pages, lavishly illustrated in b/w and color. A complete art bibliography is included, but some of the paintings' attributions and titles have changed in the past 25 years, so be aware. Text is scholarly and witty, told by someone whose expertise in the subject is clearly profound. A glossary is included of garment terms from the period -- a lifesaver for me! Text includes all aspects of garment, from underwear to shoes to belts to hats to jewelry to clothes, and information on fabric types and weaving and dyeing techniques. I've already read it several times, and every time, I get something new from it. I should also add that many of these portraits do not appear to exist online, so you'll see plenty of things you haven't seen before.<br />It wasn't quite what I expected, however. I thought it'd tell me how exactly to make sleeves, hose, etc., and it didn't. But what it did give me was an excellent and in-depth study of clothes in Renaissance Italy, and enough information that I feel I am prepared to use all that velvet I've been hoarding finally without making an idiot of myself. If you are into costuming, and this is your period, definitely get it! Be prepared to spend some cash money, though.	2002-04-25
US	47311361	RPF8FTWAFTPMB	0140042407	206112752	Tortilla Flat	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A puckish and picaresque little romp	I used to have this book, years ago, and just re-got it and re-read it this weekend. The first time I read it, I thought it was racist and demeaning. Since then, I've lived with guys just like these, proving that slack has no color. I was able to put aside the earlier preconceptions and just enjoy reading about Danny and his band of friends, whose lives revolve around women, slacking off, and drinking.<br />The book is a very loose retelling of Arthurian myth, loose enough that I didn't catch it upon first read, centering around Danny, who brings all his friends to live with him in the large, free house he's inherited (Danny's &quot;throne&quot; is his bed, which nobody but him is allowed to use). The work's only drawback is its looseness of narrative -- it reads more like a collection of short stories than a novel with any sort of overall plot. Even so, I do think it's one of the more accessible Steinbeck works. Definitely I'd recommend it.	2002-04-10
US	47311361	R36LEIIKX9OD9M	0486261220	335269029	A History of Jewellery 1100-1870	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	An excellent beginning resource.	It's rather more interested in post-Renaissance jewelry than anything else, devoting quite a bit of its pages to the super ornate stuff. There's a perfectly good reason for this, namely that pre-Renaissance jewelry frequently got melted down and recast. I still wish it'd devoted more time to that earlier stuff, since my interest is particularly in Renaissance-era jewelry. Still, it's a great introduction to the subject.<br />Well-written, with lots of good tidbits, and one of the few resources for the study of the history of jewelry. Lavish illustrations and portraits, some of which I'd never seen anywhere else before.	2002-04-05
US	47311361	RN95BNRTD1Y6Q	0140288546	83160781	Think Like a Cat: How to Raise a Well-Adjusted Cat--Not a Sour Puss	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent book for cat owners.	It's fun to read such a no-nonsense manual for cat owners. Clear, concise, but gentle in tone, this book covers all aspects of pet ownership, from litter box issues to poisonous plants.<br />The book asserts that most problems cat owners face are a direct result of misunderstandings -- misunderstandings that arise because humans don't understand the cat's point of view. One must admit this theory is compelling. I've had this book a year, and consider it indispensable. It's resolved several problems I thought were impossible. And I must admit that my cats seem a lot happier now that I've been reading this lady's writing. I certainly don't have any behavioral problems with either of them anymore.<br />Push all the other how-to manuals off the shelf. This is the only one you need.	2002-03-29
US	47311361	R31NR78ZIJNMX4	0060241721	612165265	Lorenzo De'Medici and the Renaissance	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An excellent introduction to one of Italy's finest leaders.	Not complete and definitely geared toward a more youthful audience, but an excellent read and very informative. Lots of pictures, but (AARGH!) little info on titles or artists, which is frustrating as some of these pictures I've never seen anywhere before!<br />The book details Lorenzo's young life as well as that of his grandfather and father. It talks mostly about his youth and his earliest days as ruler of Florence, with flavoring about his life, marriage, kids, and other such topics. It also details his death and a bit about those who followed him. A very useful geneological chart is included, which, though far from complete, was appreciated. There is also a map of Italy, which one would expect in this kind of work but which is sometimes lacking. I vaguely know where Florence is, but it's always nice to know exactly where things are.<br />The book did tell me a lot of things I didn't know about Lorenzo's all too brief reign, but I'd have loved to have heard more about the politics of the region. I also would have enjoyed hearing more about his relatives and his daily life. That said, I would recommend this book to anybody looking for an introduction to late 15th century Florentine history. I'm a costumer, and already this book has given me some absolutely delicious ideas.. as soon as I figure out where some of these paintings are from.	2002-03-25
US	47311361	R2344IR6Z1EE13	0895949091	349054437	Psycho Kitty?: Understanding Your Cat's Crazy Behavior	Books	5	66	66	N	N	Fascinating look at a little-known field of work.	Details a number of case studies from the files of a professional cat behaviorist. If you ever wondered what it'd be like to counsel cats and their owners, here you are.<br />I didn't get the impression that the book was trying to be a serious treatise on cat-box behavior or spraying or whatever, though each vignette includes treatment plans and information about what was going on in that case. For in-depth treatment of issues like cat-box behavior and spraying, I'd recommend one of the author's other books, &quot;Think Like a Cat&quot;. The treatment plans here are interesting to read, giving much insight on how one goes about changing an animal's behavior. And what cat owner doesn't love reading about odd cats? We got lots of them here, and sometimes the owners are just as odd. Honestly, I love reading these frequently amusing, sometimes very touching stories.<br />&quot;Psycho Kitty&quot; contains vignettes of what a day of a cat-behaviorist's life is like. I found the book absolutely fascinating, sometimes humorous, sometimes very touching.	2002-03-07
US	47311361	R3A7AYUOSLF82Z	096153530X	157310508	The Basics of Bead Stringing	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A great beginners' resource.	I'm very new to jewelrymaking and recently picked this up as a first guide. I'm very happy to say that it has fulfilled my expectations. Extensive greyscale illustrations show step-by-step how to perform the steps described in the text. Basic concepts are discussed with an eye toward explaining them in detail for the total beginner.<br />This is very much a homemade sort of book -- saddle-stapled and not very long, about 60 pages. If there's ever a second edition, I'd like to see better editing to get the grammar errors out, and I'd love to see some useful color photos -- the ones included are there more for showing possibilities than for illustrating concepts. It is also true that some of the things discussed don't fall under my personal definition of &quot;basics&quot;, like making daisy chains (f.e., I'd never even *seen* a daisy chain before seeing them here). But as my first guidebook, it's worth the extremely low cost. The style of writing is accessible and friendly and the step-by-step illustrations are invaluable to understanding.	2002-03-06
US	47311361	R3QID0KV8Y7JIE	0936861673	676393487	Elfquest Reader's Collection #9a: Wolfrider!	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A very complex look at a complex character.	Bearclaw isn't an easy character to love, and he definitely isn't the stereotypical nurturing, loving, peacable Wolfrider. The book details how he came to make war on the humans and firmly sets responsibility for that war just as squarely on his shoulders as on the humans'. Prejudice, racial hatred, violent childrearing, and Dumb Boy Mistakes abound here. After reading this book, I came to understand that the Pini's elves are in their way just as human as we are, and just as capable of unpleasant behavior and beliefs.<br />In &quot;Hidden Years&quot;, when Ember asks her father, Cutter (whose hand is raised to slap her), &quot;Who taught you to do that, anyway?&quot;, the question is all the more poignant, and Cutter's childrearing beliefs in the face of Bearclaw's treatment become all the more remarkable.<br />I was quite jarred when, midway through the book, another artist took over -- this new artist had a very different style from Wendy and honestly I did not like that style much -- but eventually Wendy took over again.<br />I'd consider this a must-have in an Elfquest reader's library. It very efficiently balances the overly-good image the elves have.	2001-12-27
US	47311361	R3TVSX3HUX0ETQ	0719524237	336471504	Dress in Italian Painting, 1460-1500	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A slim but invaluable volume, for costumers	Concerning itself mainly with Florence in the last half of the 1400s, this book tells how to look at paintings and get garb out of them. More than a hundred black-and-white illustrations and details are included and each reproduction is discussed in sections detailing general cut, men's and women's dress (doublets and hose, dresses, \\"overtunics\\", etc.), headgear for women (not for men), sleeves for men and women, and chemises. One of the most useful chapters (aside from the sleeve ones, which are cool) is about fasteners.<br />Birbari cuts right through to show tons of little details, such as the custom in portraits of *always* letting a little bit of undershirt show atop a doublet's collar. It's true, every portrait I've ever seen does show this, but I'd never noticed it before she pointed it out. She also provides information for telling how pattern pieces are cut, and what sort of fabrics one is looking at in a painting. Sumptuary laws, embroidery vs. woven designs, seam placement, linings, pleating, and more topics are covered. There's even a teeny chapter at the end about not trusting everything you see in a painting.<br />I would have loved seeing the book be longer, and I'd have loved to have seen technical terms given for the garb discussed. I must admit I don't agree with everything she says, either. But she's mainly writing for the theatre crowd, not necessarily the SCA/re-enactment crowd (which is where I hang out). That explains the book's perceived shortcomings. I still think it's a wonderful reference despite this.<br />This book is for experienced seamstresses and avid costumers. No real instructions for actual construction are provided (there're a few gridded patterns, but not many), only pointers for interpreting what you're seeing in paintings of the time. It definitely focuses on Florence, though other cities are marginally represented. Also, it is out of print. You can expect it to be hard to find...	2001-12-27
US	47311361	R9JWE2C0B1WSB	0465008968	133292764	The Witch Must Die: The Hidden Meaning of Fairy Tales	Books	3	68	81	N	N	Some good points, but really &quot;educational theory&quot;ish.	I just learned that the author is some sort of bigshot psychologist somewhere. I suppose that should not surprise me. This book is full of modern American &quot;education theory&quot; and all sorts of pop child-psychology tidbits, and it grated on me immensely.<br />Kirkus Reviews put it best, and to that review, I will add this: Fairy tales were not written for children originally. The oldest, the most beloved ones, were written by glittering, fashionable adults, for equally glittering and fashionable adults. They're gruesome, complex, complicated, and sometimes they just don't have morals, other than the beauty of a well-told story. Sometimes they have lots of morals. They're like life, which also can be gruesome, complex, complicated, morality-laden or morality-bankrupt. But one thing they weren't, and that was kid stuff.<br />It took the Victorian age to turn fairy tales into morality-laden warning stories, and the modern age to sanitize fairy tales into kid stuff, and Cashdan has taken that sanitization one step further, by insisting that parents can ego-search their kids using these tales as launching points.<br />He takes complex and beautiful stories like Snow White and reduces them to one-line Sailormoon-style morals, tacking them onto the story like fig leaves on Greek statues (&quot;Don't be vain!&quot;). Chapters explore each &quot;sin&quot;, with suggestions for parents on how to use the suggested fairy tales to explore those &quot;sins&quot;. (Apply X story to Y child for Z condition, and voila! Kid is fixed! What better way to illustrate the shortfalls of modern education theory?)<br />Cashdan does make some interesting points, in all that psychobabble -- I loved reading about his thoughts on why the bad guys have to die in these stories, why the stories *are* so violent. Honestly, that's why I bought the book, and I wasn't disappointed at all with it because he does explore those issues in detail. But there's a lot of New Agey stuff to wade through to get to it.<br />I'd consider it a useful and thought-provoking addition to a fairy-tale researcher's library, but not a must-have resource.to get to it.<br />I'd consider it a useful and thought-provoking addition to a fairy-tale researcher's library, but not a must-have resource.	2001-12-21
US	47311361	RBZ1VZFO26Y38	0846701138	15572910	Women Troubadours	Books	2	18	23	N	N	Get this for the poetry, not for the history.	I got this expecting some history of the women troubadours, but the history presented was, to put it most charitably, old research at best. I spotted numerous historical flaws, particularly around the so-called &quot;droit du seigneur&quot; which supposedly gave lords carte blanche to deflower virgins before they married. Current research seems to indicate that this custom was not at all pervasive, but Bogin makes it sound like /every/ lord was out boffing brides and she spends quite a while dwelling on the implications of it. That just irked me and was hardly the only inaccuracy I detected. The general tone is of a strident feminist stomping on those nasty ol' medieval men, something else that irritated me. I truly suspect that the book is just based on old research, and a new treatment might say something entirely different.<br />The author is at her best when she's talking about individual women troubadours and recording their actual songs/poems. I really haven't seen such a treasure trove of primary-source poetry and songs, so I'd definitely consider this as an addition to any budding bard's library; I'm glad I got it, myself. Just don't take the historical notes too seriously without doing a bit of research yourself for verification -- it is really hysterical in places.	2001-12-20
US	47311361	R2LS1HP15F2F69	0312148232	560867365	Dumbing Down Our Kids: Why American Children Feel Good About Themselves But Can't Read, Write, or Add	Books	5	95	110	N	Y	Someone who's been there knows Sykes is right.	My boyfriend (who is, it must be said, very clear-thinking) thinks that Sykes is biased severely to the right and he didn't even finish the book because he felt so strongly that Sykes had to be overstating many things, but then again, my sweetie went to a parochial school and has never had extensive contact with teacher education.<br />I, however, went to public school, and worked for many years in a well-known university's teacher education college (one which one reviewer here attended, but I won't name names). I worked with fledgeling teachers. I read their materials. I set up their AV equipment. I saw their lesson plans.<br />We are in very big trouble, America, is all I've got to say. If I ever have kids, they are getting home schooling or going to a reputable private school that values achievement -- and I'm not the only person who worked there who thought the same thing. Sykes is RIGHT ON, and the Amazon reviews of the book are totally accurate. My stomach turned as I read the book, because I knew from personal observation that he was writing the truth. I hope more people read this book and see what's going on in our schools.	2001-12-12
US	47311361	R3EUV81V4ROHE8	0804811237	250930149	The Gossamer Years: The Diary of a Noblewoman of Heian Japan (Tuttle Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	A fascinating look at an obscure time period	(written on light-grey paper, with a sprig of rosemary tied into the ribbon around it)<br />I came into this book knowing absolutely nothing about the Heian period of feudal Japan, and left knowing enough to stand my own. The details revealed are absolutely fascinating, and the writing is rich and evocative. It is a lifestyle of an age long gone, brought to life again.<br />The noble writer of the diary is, as has been promised, not entirely an angel (her life does sound a bit talk-show-ish at points), but she does certainly have an eye for detail and storytelling. I doubt even non-history-freaks would find this difficult going. Easy to read and digest, with lots of neat looks at life in a very exotic place.<br />I cannot say enough about the book's usefulness as a sourcebook for the period. The copious notes at the end are almost as fascinating as the book itself. I wouldn't have minded more pictures, but I suppose one can't have everything. Those into history, Japanese history, biographies/diaries, etc., will find this a fascinating and informative read.	2001-12-12
US	47311361	R2YTE2RDID9BH5	1864482435	947362548	Bog Bodies: Mummies and Curious Corpses (True Stories)	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	Barely skims the surface, definitely for younger readers.	I should preface this by saying that I bought this as an introduction to non-Egyptian mummies and that I'm in my mid-30s with no kids (and that I didn't realize when I bought the book that it was actually specifically marketed as for children; imagine MY surprise).<br />This is a very beginner-style book that brushes the surface with gee-whiz factoids. The information here has been handed to us a dozen times on various cable channels already and in way better detail. There are tons of pictures, which I thought were pretty cool. Also includes &quot;stuff to do&quot;, which didn't seem to shed much light on the subject and which I thoroughly regarded as space filler, but which a pre-teenager might find amusing. It's also a slim volume. I was a very precocious reader, and even at 9, this book would have been way below my reading level -- so it is hard to say if it is too far below the average kid's reading level or intelligence today. It's slick, packaged, colorful, and short on real background or history -- a lot like a TV special, if you want the truth. It delves very lightly into a lot of different areas, but doesn't get too far into any of them. Get this as a beginner's book and as a launchpad to find other, more intelligent and more detailed, books on the subject, but don't expect it to answer any real curiosity.<br />In short, there are several books out there that cover the material in way more detail and with less of a Fox-News feel, but the book wasn't a total waste of money.	2001-12-12
US	47311361	RQCJ6U4ABJEY9	0515130974	1083226	Running Blind (Jack Reacher, No. 4)	Books	1	9	14	N	N	Where did Child get his info about psychology?	I don't know much about the military or the FBI, but whoever is teaching Lee Child psychology needs to be reprimanded. I'm not a total expert in that, either, just a BA, but anybody who's had a year or two of psych knows that that is NOT how hypnosis works. I'm afraid that completely ruined this book for me. I read it through, but since I already knew who the bad guy was (in what was surely the most telegraphed foreshadowing I've ever seen), and I knew the manner of killing was completely unrealistic, it was hard for me to get into it. Thrillers are cool because they *could* be true -- there was just no way this premise could be true, that's all.<br />I don't ask much out of thrillers. Consistency and coherence and some modicum of real-world fact -- that's all I want.	2001-12-05
US	47311361	R2TQIKZRMLF4KZ	0553583441	789284175	Touching Evil: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	1	10	13	N	N	You have GOT to be kidding.	I hate to disillusion Kay Hooper's big fans, but I personally felt the book was far from satisfactory. This is the first book of hers I've ever read. I actually liked the premise of this book and spent all morning reading it when I really should have been sleeping. Then I hit the bits about reincarnation, karmic debt, and who the bad guy is/was and went &quot;Oh god, tell me she's joking.&quot;<br />She wasn't.<br />A beautifully woven plot, a sympathetic and believable heroine, and a fascinating premise got shot down in flames with the worst ending I have ever seen in a thriller. The bad guy here makes about as much sense as the bad guy in the movie &quot;Urban Legend&quot;, and for about the same reasons. That was hideously disappointing and cliched. Does Kay Hooper not watch horror movies? Does she seriously think that all bad guys must be seen in the book at least once and that you can just pin &quot;bad guy&quot; on any schmoe interchangably? I mean, it could just as easily have been the guy at the library, the bum, or some total stranger who bumped into someone on the street, with the same motivations and justifications. That was TERRIBLE.<br />That was the worst of it, but there was a lot of other stuff I really hated about the last 50 pages or so of the book. The heroine does something so harebrained at the end that I lost all suspension of disbelief right there. The &quot;kosmik karma&quot; aspect was bad enough, but the explanation of just *why* the heroine is doing what she's doing was absolutely lame, not to mention insane.<br />Loved the buildup, hated the actual ending.<br />Cassidy	2001-11-29
US	47311361	R2Z24V76MTNYEW	0789201399	441250887	Italian Frescoes: The Early Renaissance 1400-1470	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent	This fine, large hardback is lush, made with thick paper. Inside, it details frescoes from around Italy in more or less chronological order, earliest-created first. Each chapter details one set of frescoes, giving extensive history and corroborating details along with art analysis of style, including reproductions of other art, then shows diagrams of where each piece of fresco it depicts comes from in the building in question. Then it gives the frescoes themselves, some in wide-shot, some in close-up detail.<br />The frescoes are beautifully reproduced, in vibrant color, some so close up you can see brushstrokes. They depict people from all walks of life in Italy doing just about everything from praying to hunting to giving birth to you name it. Of particular interest to me were the Sienese hospital frescoes depicted therein -- the most complete I've ever seen anywhere.<br />Personally, me, I got this for the beautiful costumes it depicts, and it hasn't steered me wrong. It really is an inspiration. But I think anybody interested in art history or in Renaissance art would adore having this magnificent work on his or her shelf. It's worth noting that there's another book in this set which looks to be of equally high quality.	2001-07-15
US	47311361	ROCZDNYTCLYHN	0195067886	640731658	The Origins of the Mithraic Mysteries: Cosmology and Salvation in the Ancient World	Books	3	12	15	N	Y	Found it kind of hard going, actually.. Not for beginners	A very scholarly work with tons of references and excellent documentation. It makes its point very well. The problem is that I didn't realize what the point was for a couple chapters. I'm sure most of the problem is that I came into this with very little knowledge of Mithraism or of the societies Ulansey is dealing with. It's clear that the writer is capable and meticulous, and I'm sure this book is a groundbreaker in terms of its theories. It has that feel, for sure. I just need a more general overview of the subject before I can plunge into something this specific.<br />Don't get me wrong -- I'm glad I've got it. I like having &quot;must have&quot; books in my collection. And I love seeing good debunks of popular misperceptions of history -- this book accomplishes that in spades. I just found it very difficult reading. It felt like Ulansey assumed I knew about this or that writer or theory like I'd know how to walk erect and brush my teeth, and I'd never heard of them or their theories -- I'd have liked seeing a little more explanatory material so I wouldn't be struggling so much. It felt like I got dropped into a world of constellations and cosmologies without really an explanation of what it was all about, who got into this religion and why, what purpose it had in society.. but this isn't a general overview of Mithraism. It's a careful examination of ONE aspect of it, and an aspect most people would never have heard of. It does its job excellently and masterfully. But it felt like it was being marketed to a general audience, and it is not a general-audience sort of book. It's a very specialized one.<br />I'd also have liked knowing whatever happened to Mithraism.. it seems like it was assimilated into some army or other and then just vanished, without a trace. But this is definitely a book to have if you are a history lover. I give it 3 stars for the general history reader's benefit. This book, as fascinating and as scholarly as it is, is not really for the reader who's never heard of Mithraism.er who's never heard of Mithraism.	2001-07-15
US	47311361	R2UCBZ8D00D43B	0140446893	167765645	The Book of the City of Ladies (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Witty and revealing look at a period primary source	Christine falls asleep while contemplating why women in her society get such a bad rap, and has a long dream about exemplary women and their characteristics.<br />Did you ever wonder why we just accept that women in the Middle Ages were considered demons in disguise? Christine tells us all about what she thinks of that concept and of those who insist on spreading such maliciousness, all in an engaging story full of examples of brave, courageous, intelligent, pious, beautiful, generous women. The book was written to dispel some of the nastier slanders then current about women, but it's still good reading today.<br />I confess that during the part about martyrs I wandered off a bit (it is some gruesome stuff in places), but as a period source, it's definitely one every history maven ought to have. Christine is intelligent, observant, and witty; her writing fairly sparkles with indignation over the treatment of women and her sardonic amusement at those men spreading those lies. While hyper-Catholic and in places highly allegorical (and in many places its version of &quot;history&quot; is highly questionable, of course), it is an essential look at a time period where women didn't often make their views known in written form.<br />This book is distinct from &quot;The Book of the Treasure of the City of Ladies&quot;.	2001-07-15
US	47311361	R3OPTXIR6PBU9L	0195044584	635385770	Before France and Germany: The Creation and Transformation of the Merovingian World	Books	5	31	31	N	N	A must-have.	Paints an entirely plausible picture of life after the putative &quot;fall of Rome&quot;. Scholarly and in-depth treatment of the time period make this an absolute must-have in any history maven's collection. I haven't ever seen a better treatment of this time period. What is nicest, it's not terribly long or dry. It says what it needs to say with knowledgability and wit, and then it gets out of there, leaving you lots of places to take up study. To the person just seriously delving into this period (this history is not for the casual reader), this is the perfect book to get you started. It definitely was for me.<br />Also an excellent bridge between &quot;fall of Rome&quot; period history and the &quot;Middle Ages&quot;. You don't see a lot about that period. It's largely a mystery how it all went from togas to braies. This dispels many notions of pseudo-history and once-cherished errors, and effectively explains how we got from there to here. There's a very sweeping sense of history about this book. When I finish reading it, I get a sense that Charlemagne wouldn't have happened if this period hadn't happened the way it did, and see the whole time period in a different light -- the light of perspective. Definitely recommend it.	2001-07-15
US	47311361	R3RIBMFMUDHW0M	0231073054	110772628	The Art of Courtly Love (Records of Civilization)	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Excellent background for Middle Ages history buffs.	A series of dialogues between men and women of various social ranks concerning why love should be accepted or rejected, written during the Middle Ages. There are other bits, such as Courts of Love and long letters written to this or that person, but that's mostly it.<br />I found it an interesting read. You hear a lot about &quot;courtly love&quot;, but nobody really talks about the underpinnings of the tradition. Since the writer was a monk, one truly wonders just what in the world he knows about love, but upon reading the dialogues, one becomes convinced that this isn't about love. It's about social behavior within a certain context, within a very narrow time frame within a very narrow part of Europe, one indulged in by a very narrow group of people. And yet when we think of the Middle Ages, we think of courtly love. There's a reason for that, and reading this book will help the introspective reader see why.<br />The 5 stars were for how it stands as a primary source documenting the period. It is excellent in that regard. It does drag sometimes, and many of the dialogues are, indeed, repetitive-sounding. But that's how medieval documents WERE. They wanted to be sure the point got across, I think. I'm also half-convinced that the writer wasn't being entirely serious in some places. Again, he was a monk, and it's possible it was just an exercise in logic, as the forward to this book explains in good detail.<br />I'm not sure I'd want to read this if I were just a casual reader. It won't give many hints about how to romance someone in OUR time period -- nowadays we like passion, not logic, to be the impetus for beginning a love affair. But it will give the history student something to chew on and I think it's an essential piece of understanding one of the weirder aspects of the Middle Ages.	2001-07-15
US	47311361	R34TJKH1IF2V7J	0313227969	616933349	Daily Living in the Twelfth Century: Based on the Observations of Alexander Neckam in London and Paris	Books	5	17	18	N	N	An excellent resource	Tons of citations, tons of primary-source documentation. It's a gorgeous book, full of information about life in a very specific time-period. This isn't a general &quot;medieval&quot; resource -- it is a resource about London and Paris of the years 1150-1200 and that.. is.. it. I wish it went into more detail in places (such as how women lived), but one can't argue that it's probably the best book of its kind concerning this time period. There are recipes, instructions for planting gardens, herbalism and medicine notes, information on how ironsmiths and goldsmiths worked, architectural notes, and loads of tidbits about how students lived (since the book's primary source is a 12th-century student's writings), stuff about jousts.. you name it, just about. The author sounds like he might have lived there, he's so familiar with his material. Effortlessly, he spins his stories, and his writing style is quite pleasant to read. I'd certainly and without reservations consider this book a must-have for anybody interested in this time period. I just wonder that it took me so long to find it -- it was written in the 50s!<br />This book also comes out in softcover from Wisconsin Press and is currently in print.	2001-04-18
US	47311361	R2U1WUONPQ7GEH	0813108349	150472923	Fairy Tale as Myth/Myth as Fairy Tale (Clark Lectures)	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Excellent.	Zipes' qualifications for writing about this subject are impeccable, and his years of teaching show easily here. Chapters include stuff about traditional fairy tales, sure, but also writeups on Disney animation (hint: he's not real thrilled at some ways Disney has &quot;tidied up&quot; fairy tales). You'll never watch &quot;The Little Mermaid&quot; in quite the same way again.<br />This is more of a philosophical treatment than anything else. There isn't extensive hard history here; they're writeups of lectures, not papers, though sources are cited. Consider these ruminations on fairy tales and their relevance to modern culture -- how they are treated, how they are disseminated, how they've changed in the past couple hundred years. The book isn't very long, but it has a lot of good observations in it.<br />I found it invaluable for its insights; Zipes has found a sincere admirer in me. If you are interested in fairy tales in modern culture, this is definitely somewhere you might enjoy playing.	2000-10-27
