US	47347384	R3OX5XJBBOEE3M	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by: Domdom65	Have you ever had a nightmare over and over again? That is what happens to sixteen year old Harry Potter, the protagonist, in the Order of the Phoenix by J.K. Rowling, except it isn't exactly a dream. Lord Vol... He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named is haunting Harry when he sleeps, and what he is \\"dreaming\\" is really happening. Harry must fight this.<BR> To get over the \\"dreams\\" Professor Dumbledore orders Professor Snape to teach Harry Occlumency, a way of blocking out the \\"dreams.\\" To teach Harry (whom Snape hates), Snape puts all of his memories into a bowl and tries to read Harry's mind. Harry has to try to keep Snape out of his head. He fails the first attempt. Snape leaves the dungeon for a minute and Harry looks at his memories. Harry realizes that Snape was teased and fooled when he was a student at Hogwarts, and kind of feels sad for him. Snape returns and catches Harry looking at his memories and refuses to teach Harry Occlumency any longer.<BR> Harry maneuvered to conspiratorially form \\"Dumbledore's Army,\\" a group of fourth and fifth years who want to get back at Professor Umbridge and learn spells and jinxes she does not allow teachers to teach. They meet at a special room that you have to concentrate your thoughts on and what you need. The room will appear with supplies you need for something. Harry works with other students and helps them learn spells and jinxes they need to know for life.<BR> Harry has the same dream about walking down a corridor with a door at the end. He hears someone crying. It is Mr.Weasly. Harry feels kind of strange. All of a sudden Harry has the frightening urge to...!<BR> Ladies and gentlemen, boy and girls of all ages, I invite and encourage you to join Harry and his friends at Hogwarts by reading Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix by J.K. Rowling as well as the rest of the series entitled The Sorcerer's Stone, The Chamber of Secrets, The Prisoner of Azkaban, and the Goblet of Fire. I promise you will love the books and will notregret reading them.	2003-11-21
US	47347384	R1ZIM2HBRQS734	006440188X	571846578	The Secret Garden (HarperClassics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Secret Garden a review by super-girl	The Secret Garden <br /> Have you ever discovered a place that has bee locked up for a long time?  If so, then you can relate to The Secret Garden by Frances Hodgson Burnett.  Mary Lennox, the protagonist, moves from India to Misselthwaite, England because her parents die of cholera.  She lives with her cousin Colin Craven, who thinks he's a cripple and believes he is never going to walk.  Mary tries to convince him that he's not a cripple.  The children meet Dickon, a local boy who they call the animal charmer.  Together they find a magical world inside a garden.<br /> Mary, Dickon, and Colin find the garden left alone and locked.  They find a key with the help of Robin and then start to garden without anyone knowing it.  Mary and Colin are very frail like a toothpick, but then they grow because the fresh air makes them well.  Dickon is a teacher because he shows them how to garden.  <br />  Then, on a rainy day, Mary and Colin go into rooms in the house that are locked up and they learn about their ancestors.  In Colin's room Mary sees a portrait hidden under a tarpaulin, she opens it and sees picture of Colin's Mother (Mrs. Craven).  Mary asks Colin why it is covered and he tells her that he doesn't want to see her because she reminds him of his Father and how he is mad at him because he will be a hunchback.  Finally, Mary and Colin learn to overcome their tantrums and the fears of never seeing their parents again.  When the children are in the garden, they were caught by one of the gardeners, however he said that he wouldn't tell because he himself had been inside the garden.  <br /> Read to find out if the children ever get caught in the garden again, or if Colin ever walks.  Ladies and gentlemen, I invite and encourage you to read The Secret Garden.	2003-11-21
US	47347384	R1CR48TMKBWTF8	0440415802	121406524	Summer of the Monkeys	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Summer of the Monkeys a review by Sean	Have you wanted something so badly you would do anything for it? Well Jay Berry Lee wants a .22 and a pony more than anything in the world, and he just might get them, thanks to a tree full of circus monkeys.<BR> It all started on 60 acres of Cherokee Nation land. The Lees only cow, Sally Gooden, hops the pasture fence and runs away. Fourteen year old Jay goes to find her in the Cherokee River Bottoms, never expecting to see monkeys that would change his life around. Jays finds Sally Gooden almost right away, but instead of taking her home he decides to leave her where she is and explore the bottoms.  Jay Berry and his dog Rowdy, a blue tick hound, were following a game trail when Rowdy smelled something. He chased it up a huge bur oak. Jay looked up and couldn't believe what he saw. In the tree was a monkey. Jay was so surprised he couldn't move or talk; he just stood there and stared at the monkey, and the monkey stared back. Then there was a noise from deep in the forest. A noise that Jay had never heard before, a noise that made the whole forest sound alive. Jay was so scared that he ran out of the bottoms and right to his dad. \\"Jay Berry, your mother wants you to run this list to your grandpa's to fill\\". Jay's grandpa owned a store and was one good trader. When Jay got to the store, he told his grandpa all about the monkey. Then his grandpa told him that the circus monkeys had escaped from a train wreck and the owners were offering a reward for them. All but one of them were worth two dollars, and the last was worth one hundred dollars. So his grandpa made him some traps for catching the monkeys, filled the list, and sent him home.<BR> Will Jay catch the monkeys or be embarrassed by them? I encourage you to read this book and find out.	2003-01-06
US	47347384	R243K1B0OFJK17	0517189682	444133547	Anne of Green Gables (Children's Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Anne of Geen Gables a review by Nicole	By, L.M.Montgomery<br />Little Anne had never belonged anywhere until she came to Green Gables. But even though her going there was a mistake, she felt like she belonged. Not belonging anywhere since she was a baby Anne was determined to stay. You see, the Cuthbert's asked for a strong boy to help around the farm. But instead got a pale faced little girl. Marilla Cuthbert told her brother Mathew that she had to go. But being the kind-hearted soul he was, he talked Marilla out of her idea and into the idea of letting her stay but only for a little while.  The idea of Anne staying for a little while wore off and they decided to keep her. They had both gotten attached to her but were afraid to tell her. When Marilla finally told Anne she could stay Anne went to explore. She had decided her first day at Green Gables that since she wasn't staying that she wouldn't get attached to it. So if she did go, it wouldn't be hard to leave Green Gables.<br /> Anne made a lot of friends and grew to love the place. But she also made two enemies and their names were Gilbert Blythe and Josie Pye. Gilbert was mean to her and Josie was just plain rude. As soon as Gilbert made fun of her, she got mad and broke her writing slate over his head. From then on the two of them fought about everything. He apologized to her several times, but she was stubborn. When they both wanted to teach at the Avalon School Gilbert gave the school to Anne when it was promised to him. From then on Anne was friendly with everyone, including the rude Josie Pye. But her troubles in life don't end with the book, it goes on through out the whole series. Anne might make a ton of mistakes, but she has her own way of correcting them just like me!	2003-01-02
US	47347384	R2M5X5J93GR0EV	0380709589	693597546	Dear Mr. Henshaw	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dear Mr. Henshaw   A review by Missy	Have you ever written to a favorite author whose books you have read?<BR> A favorite scene of mine in the book Dear Mr.Henshaw by Beverly Clearly is when the main character Leigh Botts lays on his bed listening to the ding of the metal plate on the road. When cars go over it, Leigh thinks of his dad, who is a truck driver, and doesn't see Leigh a lot.<BR> Another scene I like is when Leigh writes to Mr.Henshaw and Mr.Henshaw writes back with questions, too. Leigh's mom said that he couldn't do anything until he answered the questions because Mr.Henshaw answered his questions. <BR>In additon, another favorite scene is when Leigh's dad came home from truck driving and Leigh was excited to finally see him again. Leigh and his dad talked about how Leigh is doing in school.<BR> I liked the part when Leigh wrote to Mr. Henshaw about reading all his books telling him how much he liked them because Leigh got a book about animals. He likes animals so he started to read a lot of Mr. Henshaw's books.<BR>However, Leigh has a big problem! Somebody keeps stealing his lunch. Leigh writes to Mr.Henshaw to see what he would say. I wondered what advice Mr.Henshaw would give as I read the book. Mr.Henshaw advices Leigh to go ahead with his idea of an alarm on the lunch box. All day Leigh was wondering if his alarm would work, then he went to lunch and....<BR> To find out if Leigh finds the culprit, read the story<BR>Dear Mr. Henshaw by Beverly Cleary.	2003-01-02
US	47347384	R2L14SGLRUJNW8	0380709589	366778402	Dear Mr. Henshaw	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dear Mr. Henshaw  A review by Missy	Have you ever written to a favorite author whose books you have read?<br /> A favorite scene of mine in the book Dear Mr.Henshaw by Beverly Clearly is when the main character Leigh Botts lays on his bed listening to the ding of the metal plate on the road. When cars go over it, Leigh thinks of his dad, who is a truck driver, and doesn't see Leigh a lot.<br /> Another scene I like is when Leigh writes to Mr.Henshaw and Mr.Henshaw writes back with questions, too. Leigh's mom said that he couldn't do anything until he answered the questions because Mr.Henshaw answered his questions.<br />In additon, another favorite scene is when Leigh's dad came home from truck driving and Leigh was excited to finally see him again. Leigh and his dad talked about how Leigh is doing in school.<br /> I liked the part when Leigh wrote to Mr. Henshaw about reading all his books telling him how much he liked them because Leigh got a book about animals. He likes animals so he started to read a lot of Mr. Henshaw's books.<br />However, Leigh has a big problem! Somebody keeps stealing his lunch. Leigh writes to Mr.Henshaw to see what he would say. I wondered what advice Mr.Henshaw would give as I read the book. Mr.Henshaw advices Leigh to go ahead with his idea of an alarm on the lunch box. All day Leigh was wondering if his alarm would work, then he went to lunch and....<br /> To find out if Leigh finds the culprit, read the story<br />Dear Mr. Henshaw by Beverly Cleary.	2003-01-02
US	47347384	RCK8Q6GJJ4BQ1	0590312413	629857126	The Castaway	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Castaway a review by Ray	Have you ever been trapped?  If you have you would have probably felt lonely, hungry, tired and scared! In the book The Castaway, by Arthur Roth, the main character, Daniel, was stranded in a lifeboat with no means of communication. He was starving on the lifeboat. Daniel had no water, the only thing he did have was salty pork, which made him even more thirty.<BR> The shipmates died off one by one. One of the shipmates went mad. His ration of food was gone and he was severely dehydrated. The shipmate lifted up his boat oar and tried killing Daniel tree times. Daniel and his friend, Josh, had no choice but to kill the mad shipmate. Daniel and Josh rolled the dead body overboard.You can just visualize his dead body rolling into the murky water.<BR> After months of starving Daniel and Josh were forced to eat their belts and boots, for what ever nutrients that might be left.<BR>Daniel and Josh finally spotted rocks far off in the distance. They rowed and rowed against the waves and finally they saw the rocks. Daniel and Josh thought of a plan to land the boat on the rocks, but the timing would have to be just right. If they were too early or too late they could die.<BR>Will Daniel and Josh make it or will they be fish food? I encourage you to read this book. This book will make you laugh, cry, and totally gross you out!	2003-01-02
US	47347384	R20S1X20BSSN6R	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Holes a review by Zachiary	By: Louis Sacher<BR>\\" You're not in Girl Scouts anymore,\\" stated a stern Mr. Sir.  Stanley Yelnats, the protagonist in the book Holes, by Louis Sacher, didn't know how right he was.  Camp Green Lake was settled on a large, dried-up lake, were \\"bad boys\\" were turned to \\"good boys\\" The counselors think that if you take a bad kid out, make him dig holes that are 5x5x5and nearly kill him, then he turns in to a good boy. But correctional facility is only the camps public face. The warden, who's name is unknown, is looking for the bandit, Kissin' Kate Barlown's buried treasure. Little did she know that the treasure was stolen from Stanley Yelnats the 1st, who is Stanley's great-great-grand father. <BR>This book gets really exciting when Stanley and his friend, Zero, climb up and back down the mountain Stanley named \\"God's Thumb.\\" They start to dig in the hole where Stanley dug in and found a shiny lipstick top a few weeks earlier. They find a suitcase, but before they could open it, the warden catches them. However, they soon notice that they are standing in a nest of highly deadly yellow spotted lizards! Hours go by with no sign of escape. Will the kids survive? Who is the warden? What is in the suitcase? You will have to buy the book and read it to find out.	2003-01-02
US	47347384	RXOIJUN0Q03NO	0786817070	442293804	Artemis Fowl (Artemis Fowl, Book 1)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Artemis Fowl a review by Mehgan	In the year 2032 a thirteen-year-old boy and his manservant are on a mission to find a sprite, named Holly, and turn her into the police for the reward money. The thirteen-year-old super genius, Artemis Fowl the third, and manservant, Mr. Butler, have set out to recapture the fowl fortune and rebuild the fowl reputation.<BR> In the book Artemis Fowl by Eion Collen, Mr. Butler is a highly trained defensive tactic system that will kill anything seen as a threat to the fowls.  To add to the chaos Artemis must deal with the changes in his family's structure.  His dad has disappeared and in turn, mom has taken a vacation from reality.<BR>One of my favorite scenes is when Holly defeated the troll (people aren't supposed to see magical creatures). Another scene I like is when Mr. Butler's younger sister, Juliet, tries to wrestle with the pizza boy and then he runs away (which is strange for a 16yr.old girl. The boy was trying to crawl away but he couldn't. He kept yelling \\"Help, help, please .\\"Finally ,when Juliet realized what she was doing she let him go and the boy ran probably all the way back to Pashmina's pizza shop. Then the pizza was now filled with bugs and grass so she started to cry. I think they're all weird.   As you might have guessed the fowl are weird but they're nice.  I hope you read this funny but dramatic book.	2003-01-02
US	47347384	R2Y5B3ZB2N0XZO	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Ella Enchanted A review by Rachel	By, Gail Carlson Levine<br />          <BR>         Ella Enchanted by Gail Carlson Levine is a book full of mystery and magic. When Ella was a baby, a spell was put on her so she would always have to be obedient, so anything anyone told her, she had to do. All the fairies liked to keep their identities a secret, every fairy, except one. That one fairy, Lucinda, puts spells on people that she thinks are wonderful, but truthfully they're not. <BR>       One of my favorite scenes is when Ella runs away from finishing school and attends a giant's wedding. Of course, Lucinda was there and her gift to the two giants was that they would always have to be together. The giants wouldn't be able to be out of each other's sight. While all the giants are mourning over the gift, Ella returned to her home in Frell.<BR>      Another one of my favorite scenes was when after Ella had written a fake letter to Prince Char telling him that she had married someone else, she attended the three balls being held for Char. Wearing a mask she caught Char's attention even though most of the girls had knights walking around looking for a new servant or maid. When Sir Stephen saw Ella he dragged her over to Char where he had her try on the slipper. When it fit, Char told her to marry him. Ella being obedient almost said,\\" yes\\", but then stopped and thought about it, If word of her obedience fell into the wrong hands, she could be forced to kill Char. Crying and tasting blood from biting her tongue, she tried to stop herself from saying,\\" yes\\", then Hattie told her not to marry Char. But Mum Olga told Ella to marry him, then Olive told her to marry Char and then give her lots of money. Ella has a fairy godmother, but who is it? Will Ella ever break the curse that has been cast upon her? Find out in the exciting fairy tale Ella Enchanted.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R1J3OO93Y54Y57	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets a review by Nicole	Do you like magic, flying brooms, wands, and people you don't suspect? Well if you do you should read Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets , by J.K Rowling. Harry is living a miserable life. He lives with his aunt and uncle who HATE his guts. In the middle of the night a house elf comes and to tell Harry \\"he must not go back to school beacause terrible things are there waiting for him.\\" But later in the night, Ron, Harry's school friend, comes and breaks him out with a flying car. Things start to look on the bright side for once.<br />  Harry is now living with his friend Ron. When it's time for school Harry and Ron run to get the train, but they are too late because it already took off. Now Ron and Harry use the flying car to get to Hogwarts, their school. All of a sudden, BOOM their flying car just hit the womping williow! The womping willow is a tree that hurts you if you hit or in this case crash into it. Will Ron and Harry survie the mad tree?<br />  After that their adventure just begins. Is someone waiting at Hogwarts or not? This book is about adventure, bravery, and above all friendship. Will Harry and Ron surive this term or be dinner for a creature lurking in the corner?<br />  Another great scene In this book is when Hermione is trapped by the creature. Hermione has been in there for hours. No one knows where she is but Harry. Is she alive or not? Is Harry brave eoungh to save her? Or not? Well you can find out what happens next in Harry Potter and the Chamber of Serects. So in my own words \\" Harry Potter is the best seller of the year\\"and if you read this book you will love it. So ladies and gentlmen I give you Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	RAVPILK7ZFQCQ	0141302860	102259720	The Secret of Platform 13	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The Secret of Platform 13 a Review by Robert	By: Eva Ibbotson <BR>       Have you ever wondered if there was a place, somewhere where everything was peaceful and magical?  In the book, The Secret of Platform 13, by Eva Ibbotson, this wonder becomes a reality.  In the book, every nine years, for nine days, the gump in King's Cross Station in London opens so people can travel to the Island, a place of peace.  But all is not right at the Island.  Nine years ago, the young prince of the Island was taken through the gump to London for a visit, but then Mrs. Trottle, a lady who wanted a son, unfortunately kidnapped him. Now, four heroes have been chosen to go and rescue him when the gump opens.  <BR>           The heroes are strange and unlikely: Gurkintrude, a fey; Cornelius, a wizard; Hans, an ogre; and Odge, a young hag.  Rescuing the prince will be a very hard job.  Many problems present themselves: what if the heroes cannot find the prince?  What if Mrs. Trottle discovers their mission and takes the prince somewhere else?  What if the prince does not want to go?  Realizing these problems, Cornelius throws a festival on Midsummer's Eve to show Raymond, the prince the magic of the Island.  When Raymond decides that he does not want to go to the island, the heroes must think up a different way to make him come.  Read this great book, The Secret of Platform 13, to find out what happens when the heroes think up a different plan and try to take Raymond to the island again.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R3R0KEX0QX4N2M	0689840926	169528688	Hatchet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hatchet a review by Bobby	Hatchet<BR>by:  Gary Paulsen<br />In the book Hatchet, Brian Robeson is taking a plane ride to Canada to visit his father.  He is going because his mother and father are divorced and his parents live in two different places.  On the plane ride it is silent as a sleeping baby until the pilot decides to teach Brain how to fly the plane.<br />The kind of plane they are riding in is a small bushplane with easy controls.  The pilot teaches Brian the basic controls like how to turn and how to fly up or down.  Then suddenly the pilot starts moaning and groaning that his arm aches and Brian starts to smell something funny.  The pilot jokes it must be something he ate.  Next, the pilot starts jolting back in his seat and at the next moment, the pilot has a heart attack and dies.<br />Brian now has to pilot the plane.  The plane starts leaning, turns to the sharply and goes off course, but Brian doesn't realize it.  Then the plane starts running out of gas and starts going down.  Brain keeps looking for a lake to land in.  Finally, Brain sees a clearing that leads to a lake.  He flies the plane down, pulls up to slow down, and the plane crashes into the lake.  Brian survives, but the plane sinks to the bottom of the lake.<br />All Brain has left is $20.00, his hatchet, and  a smashed watch.  He finds berries to satisfy his hunger and the lake that he landed in  is fresh water.  Brain realizes he has his hatchet to start a fire to keep warm.<br />Another scene in the book was when Brain encounters a black bear and thinks it's going to eat him.  Brain stands perfectly still.   Next, the bear stands on its hind legs and sniffs Brian.  Finally, the bear just leaves him alone and walks away.  I was on the edge of my seat until I found out that the bear walked away.  How many days will Brain survive out in the wilderness?  Will somebody find him?  This is a great book.  I encourage you to read the rest of the series, which are the books The River, Brian's Winter, and Brian's Return.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R132KK3PIFEF3I	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone by Brittany	Have you ever known a secret but couldn't prove that you knew it? In the book, \\"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,\\" Harry Potter, the protagonist, knows a huge secret but nobody believes him. Not even the teachers at school. In order to prove that he knows the school secret Harry and his friends, Ron and Hermione, go to the 3rd floor corridor where another door is located. Hermione magically opens the door and inside is another huge suprise! A three headed dog! The dog's paw was over a trap door. Harry, Ron and Hermione go through the door and fall into the devil's snare.<br />  Another favorite scene that kept me on the edge on my chair was when Hagrid had a baby dragon. When the dragon hatches and almost catches Hagrid's beard on fire is a really funny scene. This is because Hagrid doesn't think anything of his beard being caught on fire; he just looks at the dragon and says that he's cute.<br />  The final scene that kept my reading was the scene when<br />Harry and his friends had detention and had to go into the dark forest with Hagrid. In the forest they see a dead unicorn, and Hagrid says they should split up to see if there are any more. Ron and Hermoine go with Hagrid but, Harry has to go with Malfoy, a person he really dislikes. Harry and Malfoy find a unicorn, but there is something with it. There was something eating it's blood! Malfoy ran off to go find Hagrid and left Harry all alone!<br />  If you're really into adventure, I encourage you to read Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R1AUI3844ZRNSA	0439176824	131745674	The Fall (Seventh Tower #1)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The Seventh Tower The Fall a review by Katie	In the first book The Seventh Tower, The Fall by Garth Nix Tal finds out by Lector Roum that his father is believed to be dead. Tal can not believe what he is hearing. Tal's family, but most of all him needs a Sunstone. <BR> Sunstones are important for everyone especially for the Chosen ones. Chosens must be able to get a Primary Sunstone to get a shadowguard in Aenir. It is a very difficult trip and highly dangerous. Since Tal's father is gone it is up to him to retrieve a sunstone. His mother Gail, and his brother and sister Gref and Kusi are counting on him. <BR> On the way to getting a sunstone Tal is climbing the Red Tower and spots many sunstones. He is now in the veil and knows how dangerous it is. The veil was built by Chosens to protect all the people from the close sun.<BR> Tal sees many sunstones but they are far too small. A Primary would normally be in the middle of all the sunstones.<BR> Tal meets a spiritshadow called the Keeper. The Keeper looks like a snake, all long, smooth, and twisting, but extremely frightening.<BR> Tal gets so scared and he falls. Who knows what he will face? He will be outside of the Towers and his world. But most of all he could get lost. Then he would be lost forever, just like his dad.<BR> To find out if Tal makes it back to the Towers you'll have to read this great book by Garth Nix!	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R3QKI8JR6ARCWA	0689828683	225748594	The Landry News	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The Landry News a review by Ryan	Have you ever written a newspaper that was so amazing a new team came to interview you?  In The Landry News, by Andrew Clements, a girl named Cara Landry starts a newspaper and it gets everybody's attention.  Later on, in about three months, it is a famous newspaper known as The Landry News.  On the ninth edition, Mr. Larsen lets Cara put a divorce section in The Landry News, but they don't know that Dr. Barnes got every edition that came out.  Then, Dr. Barnes sees Mr. Larsen in a meeting.  Mr. Larsen says, \\"I will take on full responsibility for what ever happens.\\"  <BR>Following that, Dr. Barnes tells Mr. Larsen that he's being put on trial for putting a child's privacy out in a paper.  But if you want to know if Mr. Larsen gets fired or not, you will have to read the book yourself.  I will tell you a little more- the boy who wrote the article didn't care about what happened, but he didn't know that Mr. Larsen would be on trial just for putting what the boy wanted to be known to the public, so Cara Landry wrote another different newspaper called The Guardian because The Landry News was banned.  If you want to know who wins, The Guardian, or The Landry News, Mr. Larsen vs. Dr. Barnes, you have to read this great book.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R3895H4IJTU0OQ	038072913X	26810930	The Maze	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Maze a review by Patrick	Would you ever want to explore the Grand Canyon like Rick, the protagonist, in the book The Maze by Will Hobbs?  At the beginning, Rick lives in a foster home where he is treated badly.  Rick runs away from his foster home and starts heading to find his real parents.  He lives in California, but has to travel through three states and the maze before he gets to his house.  <BR> Rick arrives in Utah, which is the transition of the story.   Here he spots two men with a truck.  Now Rick runs to jump in the back of the truck to stowaway with them.  The guys wind up driving to the northern part of Utah, but Rick was hoping to go to Arizona.  <BR> Later that day, Rick wound up stealing Lee's truck and drove away.  Lee did not know what happened.  <BR> You're going to have to read this book to find out what happens to Rick and to see whether he gets to go home or not.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	RN5Q15PKTOA4Q	0316809063	248990016	Maniac Magee	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Maniac Magee a review by Jenna	Have you ever wanted to get away, far away? From when you do something really embarrassing?  Well, in the novel Maniac Magee by Jerry Spinelli, Jeffery Lile Magee does something so unimaginable that he couldn't stand the humiliation just thinking about it, or what his Aunt and Uncle would do to him. So on that day, he made a vow to run and never stop. (And when I say run I mean literally RUN!)<br />Another thing that Maniac Magee did to make a public appearance was when Maniac untied Coble's Knot.  Cobles Knot is an enormous knot that had been tied for years, but this isn't an ordinary knot.  Because anyone and everyone who tried to untie this knot failed, so in this case he was more determined to untie this untieable knot.  Also there was a prize of a life time supplies of pizza.  But does he untie the knot?  Find out when you read this book.<br />Years later, on his daily day in and day out run, he bumps into a young black girl.  At once he notices the suitcase full of books, and immediately asks if he can barrow one.  But the girl says flatly and hard-heartedly, \\"No!\\"  But Maniac just wouldn't give up, so he begged and pleaded for just one book.  Reluctantly the girl threw a book at him and ran to school. But can a friendship between black and white children survive without racism or injustice getting in the way?  Is this possible?  Well, find out in this novel Maniac Magee by Jerry Spinelli.	2002-12-19
US	47347384	R1851I1NDRZCCR	0440411394	305245044	Under the Blood-Red Sun	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Under the Blood-Red Sun by Skidz	Under the Blood-Red Sun<BR>By: Lance Skidmore<br /> Have you ever been under a blood-red sun? Well, in the book Under the Blood-Red Sun by Graham Salisbury, Tomi and his buds are always under a blood-red sun(the eye of the Japanese flag, during WWII). Tomi is afraid of a war between Japan and the United States. This fierce battle comes to a happy ending, but Tomi is drafted to fight the war. The next time Grandpa hangs his Japanese flag outside he'd better think twice about it because some Americans now suspect anyone who is Japanese. Tomi's family is getting arrested for being Japanese. These happened because Japanese planes bombed Pearl Harbor during WWII and are taken to an internment camp. <BR>I thought this book was full of action. I liked it and if you like action you'll like it too. Tomi rushes to his mom as she is being arrested. He then also gets arrested and put in a camp for Japanese Americans. <BR> Tomi hates the internment camp and runs from the camp when an officer asks him where his card is.<BR> Tomi's best friend is Billy, and Billy isn't in the camp with him. One example of Tomi and Billy's friendship is when Tomi gives Billy the baseball that he caught at a game. This item is precious to Billy. This book is perfect to me and you won't be able to stop reading after the first page. This is a beautiful book on action and friendship between two boys whose countries hate each other. Next time you're going to buy a book, buy Under the Blood-Red Sun by Graham Salisbury.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3PB1TBYOP8TA8	0439343860	536492124	Dog at the Door (Animal Ark #25)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Dog at the Door a review by Mallory	Have you ever taken care of an abandoned animal? Well, Mandy Hope has. Mandy and her parents have a place for abandoned animals called Animal Ark. In this great book Dog at the Door by Ben M. Baiglo one day Mandy was making dinner in the kitchen and there was a knock at the door. Mandy was scared to open the door and suddenly she faced her fears. There was a golden retriever and its leash was caught on a flower pot so she couldn't get to the door. Mandy unhooked the dog and then took her into the house. The dog just looked around and whimpered. Then she layed in front of the stove. Mandy then saw that this dog was pregnant and thought, \\"Why would someone abandon a pregnant dog.\\" A little bit later her dad came downstairs. <BR> \\"My, what do we have here?\\" Dr. Hope asked.<BR> \\"Dad, can we keep the dog here?\\" Mandy questioned. <BR> \\"Let me check the dog out but don't get your hopes up about the dog staying here. Its owner will call,\\" Dr. Hope explained. Dr. Hope took the dog to his office to check her out. After he left Mrs. Hope came home.<BR> \\"What's for dinner?\\" Mrs. Hope asked.<BR> \\"Soup,\\" Mandy replied delightedly. <BR> \\"Well, the dog is ok, but she sure is pregnant. She'll be ready to have her pups any day now,\\" Dr. Hope addressed as he brought the dog back into the kitchen.<BR> \\"Dad, can the dog stay here to have her pups?\\" Mandy asked anxiously.<BR> \\"I don't know Mandy. The Reserve might take the dog and take care of her there,\\" Dr. Hope replied. Then there was a phone call for Dr. Hope. He was on the phone for quite a while and Mandy was anxiously waiting to see if the dog could stay. After ten minutes Dr. Hope came back to the kitchen.<BR> \\"Can she stay?\\" Mandy asked.<BR> \\"Can she?\\" Mrs. Hope added.<BR> \\"Well...\\" Dr. Hope started. <BR>If you like animals read this book and find out what happens to the dog.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3FI2GW4FNP45A	0440411394	305245044	Under the Blood-Red Sun	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Under the Blood-Red Sun by Skidz	Under the Blood-Red Sun<BR>By: Lance Skidmore<br /> Have you ever been under a blood-red sun? Well, in the book Under the Blood-Red Sun by Graham Salisbury, Tomi and his buds are always under a blood-red sun(the eye of the Japanese flag, during WWII). Tomi is afraid of a war between Japan and the United States. This fierce battle comes to a happy ending, but Tomi is drafted to fight the war. The next time Grandpa hangs his Japanese flag outside he'd better think twice about it because some Americans now suspect anyone who is Japanese. Tomi's family is getting arrested for being Japanese. These happened because Japanese planes bombed Pearl Harbor during WWII and are taken to an internment camp. <BR>I thought this book was full of action. I liked it and if you like action you'll like it too. Tomi rushes to his mom as she is being arrested. He then also gets arrested and put in a camp for Japanese Americans. <BR> Tomi hates the internment camp and runs from the camp when an officer asks him where his card is.<BR> Tomi's best friend is Billy, and Billy isn't in the camp with him. One example of Tomi and Billy's friendship is when Tomi gives Billy the baseball that he caught at a game. This item is precious to Billy. This book is perfect to me and you won't be able to stop reading after the first page. This is a beautiful book on action and friendship between two boys whose countries hate each other. Next time you're going to buy a book, buy Under the Blood-Red Sun by Graham Salisbury.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R1VKPXQSS749JD	0440415802	121406524	Summer of the Monkeys	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Summer of the Monkeys a review by Ali	Have you ever wondered what its like to meet a real live monkey. Well Jay Berry Lee got the chance to in this book, Summer on the Monkeys, by Wilson Rawls. For Jay Berry's birthday he got an animal trap. He got this trap from his grandfather so he could go catch the lose circus monkeys and so grandfather could get the reward money.<BR> Also in this book, Jay Berry's little sister, Daisy, tells him that there is an Old Man of the Mountains. She told him that he was technically the leader of the mountains; in other words, he was the supervisor of the mountains. She also said that this Old Man of the Mountains is only visible to the people that believe in him. Daisy says he comes to visit her all the time. Jay Berry is so gullible that he believes there is really an Old Man of the Mountains.<BR> The climax is when Jay Berry finds the monkeys. This was a funny occasion. People have a way of knowing what's going to happen next. That's what I like about this book; knowing something weird is going to happen next. If you really like mystery books, I encourage you to read this book, Summer of the Monkeys.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	RU5W3F9LYJ2K9	0064405176	48976284	Walk Two Moons	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Walk Two Moons a review by Christine	I love the Newbery award-winning book Walk Two Moons by Sharon Creech, and it's one of my favorites. On the way to Idaho to find Sal's wonderful missing mother. Sal starts a story about her friend Phoebe Winterbottom, her mother who disappeared , and an awesome adventure these girls won't ever forget. This story is exciting, dangerous, saddening, and much more! <BR> Sal's mother, whose nickname is Sugar, left her and her father and went to Idaho to sort things out. Sal missed her all the time and kept everything of her mom's. She was convinced her mother would someday return and their routine would go on like usual again. Sal and her father moved to Ohio because everything on their farm in Kentucky reminded them of their precious Sugar. There, Sal makes friends with Phoebe and gets dragged through all her crazy problems. <BR>On the trip, Sal's grandmother has a stroke and goes to the hospital. Her grandpa gives her money and the car keys knowing what Sal had to do. Even though she was only thirteen, she knew how to drive because her grandpa taught her with his truck. She had to get to Idaho and finally retrieve her amazing Sugar. Sal makes it dangerously to a rest stop, and there she finds the secret of what happened to her mother.  Now I leave you with the fate of Sal's mother and grandmother.<BR>I encourage anyone who hasn't read this book, to read it. I guarantee you won't want to put it down until you find what happens next. I have read this book many times and still enjoy it. Sharon Creech, the author, has written many other books, too. If you liked Walk Two Moons, try reading these other books: Absolutely Normal Chaos, The Wanderer, Pleasing the Ghost, Chasing Redbird, and Bloomability.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3EUVC394VB42H	0064401847	127537711	Bridge to Terabithia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bridge to Terabithia reveiw by: Adrianne	Have you ever had a friend so great and full of life?  Then, all of a sudden, one day you make that one mistake and you end up living the rest of your life miserably?  In the novel, Bridge to Terabithia, by Katherine Paterson, Jesse Aarons and Leslie Burke become great friends and are close to becoming inseparatable until one rainy day, Jesse doesn't invite Leslie along on a trip and when he returns he finds himself lost in a terrible situation. <BR>          He thinks of all the fun things they did together such    as, building their very own, \\"Secret Kingdom.\\"  He remembers all the mischievous schemes the two played on others; for example, when they write the note to Janice Avery pretending it is from a boy she has a crush on.  From the very first day Jesse met Leslie, when she raced all the fifth grade boys and beat them at their little relay races during recess, until the last time he ever saw her, I'm sure she was the best friend Jesse had ever had.  The last day he ever sees Leslie, when his music teacher, Miss Edmunds, whom he admires so and falls in love with, watching her long, beautiful black hair swish in the wind.  On that day, Miss Edmunds calls Jesse to come on a trip to an art gallery.                               Jesse accepts and thinks of asking if Leslie can go, but he ends up not asking and worries that Leslie will go to Terabithia, their \\"Secret Kingdom.\\"  That event is why Jesse lives the rest of his life miserably.Bridge to Terabithia is a great novel about friendship and loyalty.  I encourage you to read this story about a true friendship like Jesse and Leslie's because I know you all have had a friendship similar to theirs.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R2TWD0RECFS8D3	0439343860	536492124	Dog at the Door (Animal Ark #25)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Dog at the Door a review by Mallory	Have you ever taken care of an abandoned animal? Well, Mandy Hope has. Mandy and her parents have a place for abandoned animals called Animal Ark. In this great book Dog at the Door by Ben M. Baiglo one day Mandy was making dinner in the kitchen and there was a knock at the door. Mandy was scared to open the door and suddenly she faced her fears. There was a golden retriever and its leash was caught on a flower pot so she couldn't get to the door. Mandy unhooked the dog and then took her into the house. The dog just looked around and whimpered. Then she layed in front of the stove. Mandy then saw that this dog was pregnant and thought, \\"Why would someone abandon a pregnant dog.\\" A little bit later her dad came downstairs. <BR> \\"My, what do we have here?\\" Dr. Hope asked.<BR> \\"Dad, can we keep the dog here?\\" Mandy questioned. <BR> \\"Let me check the dog out but don't get your hopes up about the dog staying here. Its owner will call,\\" Dr. Hope explained. Dr. Hope took the dog to his office to check her out. After he left Mrs. Hope came home.<BR> \\"What's for dinner?\\" Mrs. Hope asked.<BR> \\"Soup,\\" Mandy replied delightedly. <BR> \\"Well, the dog is ok, but she sure is pregnant. She'll be ready to have her pups any day now,\\" Dr. Hope addressed as he brought the dog back into the kitchen.<BR> \\"Dad, can the dog stay here to have her pups?\\" Mandy asked anxiously.<BR> \\"I don't know Mandy. The Reserve might take the dog and take care of her there,\\" Dr. Hope replied. Then there was a phone call for Dr. Hope. He was on the phone for quite a while and Mandy was anxiously waiting to see if the dog could stay. After ten minutes Dr. Hope came back to the kitchen.<BR> \\"Can she stay?\\" Mandy asked.<BR> \\"Can she?\\" Mrs. Hope added.<BR> \\"Well...\\" Dr. Hope started. <BR>If you like animals read this book and find out what happens to the dog.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3PV6UUWYZKMD1	0590454471	503796603	Picklemania! (School daze)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Picklemania a review by Robert	Have you ever wanted big muscles because you are scrawny? In the book Picklemania by Jerry Spinelli, Eddie will do anything to be bigger and have muscles. First, Pickles finds a drink mix in the mall, that will give you muscles. It's called Moocho Malt and you put some of it in water. The container says it is just like a chocolate shake. Then later in school Eddie goes in the bathroom so he can try this drink. But two of the nickelheads are right there. One of the nickelheads is hanging up-side down from the stall. The other nickelhead investigates the drink and then makes Eddie drink it. That nickelhead makes Eddie drink about the rest of the container after the first drink. I don't think you are supposed to drink the whole big container right away, but Eddie is forced to. Since he drank the whole thing, is this drink going to make Eddie sick and make his hopes disappear, or is it going to give Eddie what he has wanted forever? Truly this book is hilarious, you will feel like Eddie when he is sick.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	RL3P1ZQ7PH32F	0397315953	279821718	Ghost Rock Mystery	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Ghost Rock Mysteries a review by Dan	Have you ever seen a ghost? If you have, then I highly recommend The Ghost Rock Mysteries by Mary C. Jane, especially if you like mysteries. A boy named Tommy and a girl named Janice visit their Aunt Annabel and their cousin Hubert. When they get there their neighbor tells them a story about a hungry man and his horse coming up to Aunt Annabel's house wanting food and warmth, but the people that owned the house before Aunt Annabel was mean and said no money, no food! So they shut the door.<BR> The next day they found the man and his horse in a ditch about 20 feet away from the house, DEAD! Their neighbor said it's thought that there's a rock in the field. If you walk by, it you can hear hoof beats. He also said that a year later, a wealthy man who had spent the night, drove his car about 20 feet, when suddenly he crashed in the ditch. The rich man was killed instantly. The next day the driver said he swerved to avoid a horse. The people searched for days on end but never found the horse. If I were you I would go to the local library and get this book right away. It's awesome!	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3U11AFI5CM8YE	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Holes a review by vincent	Have you ever been accused of something that isn't your fault? Stanley Yelnats was accused of stealing a baseball player's shoes when another boy stole them and ditched.  He was homeless and was never taught not to steal. He did not know they would be auctioned off for thousands of dollars to help benefit  homeless shelters. A famous baseball player donated them to be a good citizen because he was once homeless as a boy.  <BR>Stanley's hearing was delayed because of a baseball game. Then he had a choice. He could go to juvenile hall or Camp Green Lake. He was not rich and he had never been to camp before so he chose Camp Green Lake. He was in for the biggest surprise in his life.  <BR>One scene I enjoyed was on the bus when Stanley was wearing a pair of itchy, sweaty handcuffs...Another scene was just after this incident; Stanley had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Sir. He was checked for weapons or leisure items, although none were found, he was treated like a common criminal, and he was spat at. You should read to figure out what the biggest surprise of his life is!!!	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R1T5EACGILI5MW	0440415802	121406524	Summer of the Monkeys	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Summer of the Monkeys a review by Colin	Have you ever wanted something so much, but you don't have any money? Then the book Summer of The Monkeys by Wilson Rawls would be great for you. In this book Jay Berry wants a .22 and a pony. It all starts when his ma says to get food from his grandpa's store. His grandpa tells Jay about a circus train full of monkeys that has fallen off the tracks. In addition, each monkey is worth a dollar, and Jimbo is the biggest monkey that has a cash reward! <BR>Jay asked his grandpa to help him. So his grandpa said, \\"that he could fix up some monkey traps for Jay. Jay Berry left galloping faster then his pup, Rowdy. As soon as he got home he told his dad all about it, then he asked if he could try to catch the monkeys. His dad told him to go ask his mother, but his mother wasn't that crazy about it. Finally she gave in. <BR>Jay Berry set up the traps, but Jimbo out smarts it by walking around taking one bite out of each apple and throwing the rest to the pack of little monkeys. Jay is just in awe as this all happens. When Jimbo is finished, all of a sudden, he does summersaults around the tree.<BR> Jay decided to talk to his sister about Jimbo, but she said that the old man of the mountains would not like it. As soon as she scared the pants off him because he thought that he might do something to him, like turn him into stone. To find out the rest you really should really read the book Summer of the Monkeys.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R29WLF2C7OFOTA	0440407532	14133693	The River	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The River By Folger	Have you ever had a friend that has become unconscious?  Well, in the story The River by Gary Paulsen, Brian, the protagonist's best friend, Derek, becomes unconscious.  One morning when Brian woke up he wondered why he was laying on his back.  Then Brian remembered parts of what happened; the sound, the light, the thunder, and the slamming and cracking of it.  Then he remembered Derek.  Brian wondered why Derek wasn't awake.  He looked over at Derek, but he was face down on his bed.  At that point Brian knew Derek was not asleep.  Is he dead? As I read the book, my heart was beating because I almost felt like it was my friend lying there.<BR> Brian knew he had to get Derek to a doctor so Brian built a raft.  Brian thought to himself; should I take Derek with me or leave him and then get help.  Brian decided to take Derek on the raft with him. Brian laid Derek on the raft, climbed on and set off down the river to find a doctor.  Brian had a map and hoped it was accurate.  The river was one hundred and fifty kilometers long.  Will Derek fall off?  Will he survive?<BR> Now I invite and encourage you to read the novel The River by Gary Paulsen.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R1QA8GYJ7YHTJE	0553256696	393857282	The Hiding Place: The Triumphant True Story of Corrie Ten Boom	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Hiding Place a review by Adam	Have you ever wondered how it was like in Harlem during World War II when the Germans start to take control of Europe? The Hiding Place by Corrie Ten Boom is a great book to read.<BR> I highly recommend this book because it tells what Harlem was like and how hard it was to live. The Hiding Place also has pictures of what the camps were like. The book is also a great source of information not because it has facts, but the person who wrote it was actually in a camp in 1942. This book is a true-life experience of Corrie Ten Booms life before, during, and after the war.<BR> In the book the author is trying to tell you that prejudice is wrong no mater what color, customs, or beliefs someone has. She also says to be nice and help people when they are in need. The author is also very religious. She believes that if you are nice to people they will be nice back. She believes that the reason she survived the concentration camp is because she never gave up on believing that she would get out alive.<BR> One of my favorite scenes in The Hiding Place is when they start building the hiding place behind the wall with bricks so the Germans cant find it that easily. The family makes the hiding place in the highest place in the house. The family hides lots of Jewish families from the Germans, but one day German solders show up and raid the Booms house. Find out what the German soldiers find, and take the family to a concentration camp.<BR> Another one of my favorite scenes is when Peter steals ration cards for the Jews and people who need them. He steals the ration cards because during the war the people got less food and supplies then they did before the war. Ration cards are like food stamps but on cards. You can trade in ration cards for food and supplies. Even though Peter knew what would happen if he got caught, he did it because it was the right thing to do besides letting people die.<BR>  The Hiding Place is not only a great book because of the excitement but becauseof the forgiving of one woman to many men who put her and her family down.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3CSRLAYZLO43E	0590944711	77224951	Return Of Santa Paws	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Santa Paws Come Home A Review by Grace	Santa Paws do you want to go for a ride? The Callahan's asked. Oh boy, Santa Paws loved rides. Since the Callahan's just had a few last minute gifts to pick up they thought Santa Paws would be fine in the car.<BR> Santa Paws kept wondering why his family was taking so long. Suddenly a gray van pulled up right next to the station wagon. Two dirty looking men climbed out. They used a crow bar to pick open the car door. Santa Paws tried to hide, but they had already spotted him. All of a sudden Santa Paws had a bag over his head and was feeling very sick. When Santa Paws woke up he still felt too sick to sit up, but he was in a stranger's car, and he knew he had to escape.<BR>Finally, Santa Paws escaped from the dog thieves, but now he was in the middle of the street and there were rushing cars all around him. When Santa Paws is eventually he makes his way now he has to trust his instincts and go north, it just feels right. <BR>Will Santa Paws ever make it home to the Callahan's in time for Christmas? Find out in \\"Santa Paws Come Home\\" by \\"Nicholas Edwards\\".	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R1ENXBGP9YG6IV	0439343860	536492124	Dog at the Door (Animal Ark #25)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Dog at the Door a review by Mallory	Have you ever taken care of an abandoned animal? Well, Mandy Hope has. Mandy and her parents have a place for abandoned animals called Animal Ark. In this great book Dog at the Door by Ben M. Baiglo one day Mandy was making dinner in the kitchen and there was a knock at the door. Mandy was scared to open the door and suddenly she faced her fears. There was a golden retriever and its leash was caught on a flower pot so she couldn't get to the door. Mandy unhooked the dog and then took her into the house. The dog just looked around and whimpered. Then she layed in front of the stove. Mandy then saw that this dog was pregnant and thought, \\"Why would someone abandon a pregnant dog.\\" A little bit later her dad came downstairs. <BR> \\"My, what do we have here?\\" Dr. Hope asked.<BR> \\"Dad, can we keep the dog here?\\" Mandy questioned. <BR> \\"Let me check the dog out but don't get your hopes up about the dog staying here. Its owner will call,\\" Dr. Hope explained. Dr. Hope took the dog to his office to check her out. After he left Mrs. Hope came home.<BR> \\"What's for dinner?\\" Mrs. Hope asked.<BR> \\"Soup,\\" Mandy replied delightedly. <BR> \\"Well, the dog is ok, but she sure is pregnant. She'll be ready to have her pups any day now,\\" Dr. Hope addressed as he brought the dog back into the kitchen.<BR> \\"Dad, can the dog stay here to have her pups?\\" Mandy asked anxiously.<BR> \\"I don't know Mandy. The Reserve might take the dog and take care of her there,\\" Dr. Hope replied. Then there was a phone call for Dr. Hope. He was on the phone for quite a while and Mandy was anxiously waiting to see if the dog could stay. After ten minutes Dr. Hope came back to the kitchen.<BR> \\"Can she stay?\\" Mandy asked.<BR> \\"Can she?\\" Mrs. Hope added.<BR> \\"Well...\\" Dr. Hope started. <BR>If you like animals read this book and find out what happens to the dog.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R2TIHQJAU7K99K	0064406490	282315681	Drive-By (Harper Trophy Books (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Drive-By a review by Scott	Has anyone in your family been a victim of a drive-by? In the book Drive-By, by Lynne Ewing, the threesome, which included Kelly, Gus, and Jimmy went on a walk one day. Well, when they're walking something happens. Something that's going to rock their world! Jimmy is walking in the street, which a car pulls up next to Jimmy. He starts talking to the men in the car. Kelly's brother named Gus tells them to get behind the tree. Then Kelly and Gus see flashes and hear loud gunshots like thunder. They thought it was their imagination or something else. They look from behind the tree and see blood fly and Jimmy fall to the ground. The car screeches off.<BR> Kelly hopes she is dreaming. She just witnessed some very sick-minded animals at work. She can only hope that Jimmy was playing a joke and in the car were some of Jimmy's friends. She hopes this was a set-up and a planned joke, but her heart sank and couldn't bear the pain. She couldn't change the truth or take anything back. Maybe, just maybe there's a way for a miracle to happen. Maybe Jimmy was still alive and able to be saved by medical personnel. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to read the book Drive-By and read if miracles can happen with Jimmy's life.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3MBQWVRSLRKS1	0590048724	944115185	Brians Winter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brian's Winter a review by Kevin	Do you have a fear of flying?  Well if you do this book is definitely not for you.  On the other hand, if you love adrenaline and you're an outdoor person this book is for you. Well, in Brian's Winter the sequel of Hatchet Brian, the protagonist, finds himself in such an out of control situation.  On a plane ride to visit his dad in Canada the pilot has a heart attack.  He tries to land the plane himself but he crashes in a lake.  Nearly drowning he swims a shore.  Brian is now bleeding and hurt badly.  He knows he is very sick and needs food and water so he finds some berries.  He lives on mostly berries for a while he estimates a month or two, but now it's winter and his life in the woods are about to change. <BR> It was starting to get cold in the woods and Brian was behind in food and shelter.  He was sitting on a rock when he saw what he should be doing. There, in the water were two beavers sitting in the water preparing for winter. Next, it happened.  Brian got an idea from the beavers to use mud and sticks for a nice warm shelter. If this trick worked for beavers it should work for him... right?  Brian gets started with his idea. First, he got the mud from the same spot that the beavers did.  Then he finds enough sticks to hold up the contraption and finally his house is finished.  The next day, it begins to snow. Then he wakes up and hears it. Some sort of popping noise that sounded like a shotgun. Was it a person?  He gazes out of his fort to look for the direction of the noise and realizes he can't run fast in knee-deep snow.  Brian remembers seeing Eskimos walking on snow.  He thought how they did it and then it clicked they had snowshoes.  Brian made crude snowshoes and also figured that with this ability he could hunt for meat.  Also, he knew he wouldn't last long in the cold so he made a warm fur coat and pants out of the animals he had managed to hunt before.  Finally, at the end of his list was to get more food.  Now, it's time to try his new bow andsnowshoes. Next, he walks into the woods and comes face to face with a buck deer that looks like it has been stung by a bumblebee. What will he do?<BR> The ending of this story is one you can't miss.  Will Brian escape the rampaging buck?  Is the sound a person coming to hurt him or to save him?  Well, you just have to find out for yourself by reading Brian's Winter by Gary Paulson.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R3R7HU06O8RC29	0439430216	251501239	Santa Paws Boxed Set	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Santa Paws a review by Audralee	Have you ever seen someone homeless, hungry, or cold?  In a great book called Santa Paws by Nicolas Edwards a lost, homeless puppy tries to find a home for Christmas, while trying to find his family.  The little dog has many surprises, hard times, and adventures. <BR> In this book a sad puppy awoke, and he found that his family was not there.  He went on an adventure to help some people and meet friends.  He helped a poor blind girl find her wallet by grabbing it, and giving it to her, and then rubbing his head against her.  The blind girl rewarded him by a pat on his head.  <BR> Another time he saved an old lady from a falling roof by howling very loudly and getting the neighbors.  She rewarded Santa paws with a big piece of meat for all the nice things he had done he was rewarded a home.  He never found his family though, but he will always remember them.<BR>  I recommend you to read this book that has a great resolution.  It is so exciting and it will make you jump out of your seat.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R1M4WBINHJUXWT	0064406962	857953782	Chasing Redbird	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Chasing Redbird a review by Nicole	In the Newbery Award winning book Chasing Redbird by Sharon <BR>Creech, the protagonist, Zinny, has a tough time going through life.  It is like she is not even there to her family.  She has many brothers and sisters, and her Aunt Jessie and Rose died.  She loved them so much.  In the story she kind of killed them.  She is upset. He also has her own trail in which she clears for a hobby.<BR> Toward the end of the book Zinny finds out the facts that she did not understand before.  One scene was when Zinny and Uncle Nate go up to a cottage that Zinny found.  Uncle Nate tells Zinny that Aunt Jessie, Rose, and he used to come up here, and it would be a nice little peace house.  While they are in the cabin Uncle Nate faints, but he soon becomes better.  Why did she not know this?<BR> Another event is when Zinny finds out Jake has been stealing all of these things just so he could show Zinny he really likes her.  But does he like one of her sisters?  She also finds out facts about her own childhood with Rose.  What was childhood like and what did she find out about other friends and family?  Find out in the book called Chasing Redbird!	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R2EWUDP7SSOKJI	0440415802	121406524	Summer of the Monkeys	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Summer of the Monkeys a review by Ali	Have you ever wondered what its like to meet a real live monkey. Well Jay Berry Lee got the chance to in this book, Summer on the Monkeys, by Wilson Rawls. For Jay Berry's birthday he got an animal trap. He got this trap from his grandfather so he could go catch the lose circus monkeys and so grandfather could get the reward money.<BR> Also in this book, Jay Berry's little sister, Daisy, tells him that there is an Old Man of the Mountains. She told him that he was technically the leader of the mountains; in other words, he was the supervisor of the mountains. She also said that this Old Man of the Mountains is only visible to the people that believe in him. Daisy says he comes to visit her all the time. Jay Berry is so gullible that he believes there is really an Old Man of the Mountains.<BR> The climax is when Jay Berry finds the monkeys. This was a funny occasion. People have a way of knowing what's going to happen next. That's what I like about this book; knowing something weird is going to happen next. If you really like mystery books, I encourage you to read this book, Summer of the Monkeys.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R27QZEM2O9UDSM	0866119906	712926184	The Wind in the Willows (Great Illustrated Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Wind in the Willows a review By Andrew	Have you ever wanted to do something so badly you would go through the harshest weather to do it?  Then you must read the most exciting book there is, The Wind in the Willows by Kenneth Graham.  Mr. Mole wants to see Mr. Toad, who is the richest animal in town.  So Mr. Rat takes Mr. Mole to see him.  Mr. Toad and Mr. Mole became friends.  Now Mole wants to see Mr. Badger.  Rat doesn't want to take him, but Mole leaves over the night to go see Badger.      <BR>Then it started to snow, so he found a hole in a tree and he slept there for the night.  Rat went after him and succeeded.  Soon they found Badger's house.  Suddenly Otter came and told Rat and Mole that everyone was looking for them.  First, Otter, Badger, Rat, and Mole sat down and had dinner.  Then Badger led them through a tunnel that took them almost to Rat's house.  Rat protected everyone with his handguns.  Everyone was safe and happy that day.       <BR>When they got to the surface they saw that it had stopped snowing while they were walking home.  They soon thanked Badger for letting them visit at his house and for giving them shelter when they were there.  They thanked him dearly for showing them the way home.  Soon Badger left and went back home to eat dinner.  Everyone had a fun day and at the end of the day they all went home for bed.  To find out more about what happens you must read the book titled, The Wind in the Willows.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R2WMX0QHA3Z6AO	0786816724	723057829	Lizzie at Last	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Lizzie at Last review by Lauren	Have you ever felt you didn't fit in, so you changed yourself on the outside, and accidentally changed yourself on the inside as well? That is what Lizzie, the protagonist, does in the book Lizzie at Last by Claudia Mills. This book teaches you an important lesson, never to change yourself just to be popular or to impress someone. Lizzie is really smart, but she can't be smart if she wants to fit in. So Lizzie pretends to be dumb in math. If I were in Lizzie's place I would act the same because she has special talents that she shouldn't throw away like her poetry. <br />She just can't help herself, and she needs to impress Ethan, so she goes to football games, and changes her wardrobe. Lizzie goes to two football games. The first game Lizzie goes to she is afraid of the bleachers because they are so high. So she takes her mind off of them by closing her eyes and counting seconds in her head. The second name Lizzie goes to she learns what the cheer \\"first and ten, let's do it again!\\" means. <br />It is hard for Lizzie to be cool because her parents are different from all of the other parents, and that's where Lizzie gets it from. Lizzie's mom has long, curly, red hair going past her waist, and none of the other parents have long hair. Lizzie's dad thinks everyone should read the \\"New York Times\\" even if you don't live there. So if you want my opinion, I think you should read this great book.<br /> <BR>If you want to find out what happens to Lizzie, and if she changes, then I would encourage you to read this book Lizzie at Last by Claudia Mills.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	RG6RQIHMUS76T	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Ella Enchanted a review by Nadyne	How can an enchanted fairies blessing be such a curse?  In the novel Ella Enchanted Ella, the protagonist, has an enchanted curse of obedience.  If she was told to cut off her leg, she would have to do it.  If she was told to burn her house down, she would have to do it.   If she was even told to cut her head off, she would do it.  When Ella is ordered to go off to finishing school with Hattie and Olive Olga, she decides to go on a quest to break the curse-once and for all.  During her quest, ogres who looked like the ugliest monster in the world attacked her!!  They brought her into their home and fought over who was going to eat her right arm, who was going to eat her left arm, who was going to eat her right leg, who was going to eat her left leg, who was going to eat her feet and even who was going to eat her head.  It was terrible!!  She was finally able to escape to the Uaxxee's farm to the wedding where the fairy who cast the spell on her was.  When she gets there, she looks for the fairy, Lucinda.  When Ella finally finds her, Lucinda says that she won't undo the curse.  Ella has to find another plan to undo the curse.  To find out the end of the book, read it!!!!  I loved the book and I'm sure that you will to!!!	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R2ISYCW5HCW4AB	0689825943	909049524	The School Story	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The School Story a review by Zac	Have you every wanted to publish a book? In the book The School Story by Andrew Clements Natalie and Zoe will do anything to publish their book. Would you do anything to get your book published? Natalie and Zoe are two best friends in 6th grade. They want Natalie's mom Ella to be the publisher without Ella knowing. Their teacher Mrs. Clayton said that she would help them. Ella was at work and received the book. She read the whole book. Her boss Lethal wants to be the publisher of the book. Ella did not want Lethal to publish the book, she wanted to. Natalie sent another copy of the book to another person in Ella's building. He read the book and wanted Ella to publish the book, too. He sent E-mail to Lethal and sent a blind copy to Ella saying that Ella should publish the book. Lethal gave Ella the manuscript and said to Ella \\" you should handle this one after all we don't want our little Mrs. Author to get her tummy all tied up in knots.\\" Ella was very happy and said to Lethal \\" Well...but...I'll be glad to.\\" <BR>Natalie and Zoe asked Zoe's dad Mr. Remson if they could sign a contract with false names to get the book published. He said that he was pretty sure they could, but Natalie had to get her uncle Fred say that she could sign it to make it legal. Uncle Fred said \\"If you think that your daughter can sign it, I think Natalie can to.''<BR>During school one day Mrs. Clayton handed a note to the girls, and it said to meet her after school. After school Mrs. Clayton gave Natalie a big brown envelope, and she opened it up. Inside the envelope was a five-page letter from the editor. Also there was a copy of the book with dozens of post-it notes. . The post-it notes were errors. Then she read the letter. There is more to read on your own. The book The School Story is a really exciting story.	2002-12-18
US	47347384	RNKX3BXX1L80Y	0316140872	281573604	The Hockey Machine (Matt Christopher Sports Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Hockey Machine a review by Adam	By: Matt Christopher<br />Have you ever been away from your parents or someone you loved for a long period of time? Well if you have I bet you don't like it. In the book \\"The Hockey Machine\\" by Matt Christopher, the protagonist, Steve, plays ice hockey for hockey team called the Bobtails. Steve lives with his parents, or used to anyway. One day after hockey, just as Steve was leaving, he heard a voice say, \\"Hi Steve, I'm Mark,\\" he announced. Steve did not know who this was.<BR> Then Mark added, \\"Me and my older friend have been watching you play hockey\\". \\" Come on he is in the car waiting to meet you.\\" Marks older friend is Kenneth. Kenneth is a coach of a ice-hockey team in Indianapolis. When Steve and Kenneth met they talked, and after that Kenneth asked Steve if he wanted to go and get something to eat for lunch. Steve told him no because he had to get home.  Kenneth said that he would take him home right after they ate. Without saying anything Mark pushed Steve in. Steve got in and Steve, Mark, Kenneth, and the driver all went out to lunch.<br />On the ride back to Steve's house, Steve fell asleep. When Steve awoke he was still in the car. Then he asked in a worried voice, \\" Where are we going?\\" <BR>Kenneth answered, \\"To Indianapolis.\\" <BR>Steve shrieked, \\"What, you said that you would take me home right after lunch.\\" Kenneth ruled, \\"You're going to play on my hockey team, the Chariots.<BR> I already asked your parents when you were asleep.\\" <BR> Steve said \\"Prove it.\\" Kenneth pulled out a letter and gave it to Steve.<BR> The letter was typed out. Steve thought in his head that anybody could have typed this letter. After Steve was finished reading the letter he finally questioned, \\" how come I didn't even get a chance to say good-bye to my parents?\\" No one answered. <BR>As soon as they reached the airport they got on to an airplane to fly to Indianapolis. After they got there Steve met the hockey team. They stayed in their own hotel. After Steve met the guys heasked Mark if Mark would talk to Kenneth because Steve was already feeling home sick. Mark told him \\"quit thinking about your home. It just makes you more worried.\\" <BR>Then he advised \\"all of the guys and I did.\\" Steve just bowed his head in sadness, and all he could do was think about home! If you've ever felt like Steve has, all you want to do is go home and see your parents. See what happens to Steve if you get the book The Hockey Machine	2002-12-18
US	47347384	R2FP4CHLJ5QVL8	0141301104	703294299	The Witches	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Witches A Review By Dancer	The Witches<BR>Have you ever met a real Witch?  I'm guessing not.  In this story, The Witches by Roald Dahl, a boy named Charlie comes face to face with the Grand High Witch.  His Grandmother, who lives in Norway, tells him all about them.<BR> Once, Charlie was in a tree making his tree house and a woman came under the tree and started talking to him.  Do you know who/what it was? A Witch!!!  Charlie noticed all the signs of one.  He stayed up in the tree and tried to ignore her.  <BR>  -Will Charlie talk to her?<BR>  -Will the witch get him?<BR>   When Charlie and his Grandmother make it to Europe on vacation, he gets stuck in a room full of a committee of witches.  The room had one closet so that's where he hid.  At the time he had Mary and William (his two mice) with him.  He was training them to be in a mouse circus.  When the witches started their meeting, Charlie saw things he never saw before, all the signs of a witch.  Then near the end of the meeting, Mary and Charlie got out!!!<BR>  -Will the witches notice?<BR>-Will they get Charlie?<BR>-If any thing, will Charlie survive?<BR> Read on in this book and find out what happens.  It is a very exciting book and is my favorite!!!	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R3LJQ4UHKRKQYH	0689826990	169528688	Hatchet	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hatchet a review by T.J.	Have you ever thought things could not get any worse?  Well that is how the protagonist, Brian Robeson, feels in the book Hatchet by Gary Paulsen.<BR> If it weren't bad enough that his parents had gotten a divorce recently, Brian is flying a plane with no pilot.  He crash-lands his plane in a lake and it sinks to the bottom with all of his supplies.  He is desperate for food and he feels he can't go on any longer.  But after a long time thinking, he discovers food, water, fire, and shelter.  Then one night a small curious creature enters his shelter and injures Brian very badly.  Brian feels his wound and feels quills.  Then he knows it is a PORCUPINE!!!<BR>A few days later an outstanding thing happened for Brian.  <BR>Brian hears a plane flying over-head while making a bow and arrow.  He rushes back to his camp and starts a signal fire for the plane to see.  But what happened next devastated Brian, the plane turned away!  Brian feels there is no hope after this.  All of his dreams are destroyed and he is going to give up.<BR> But you will have to read this book to find out what happens next!  The story Hatchet is very interesting and exciting.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys adventurous books.	2002-12-12
US	47347384	RORF5YT4JEQUX	0380727692	952684020	Poppy (Tales from Dimwood Forest)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Poppy a review by: Monpilli	Have you ever done something that would help your family survive? Poppy by Avi is a great example of that. Poppy's family has lived in Gray House for a while and they are running out of food. They want to move to New House but in order to do that they need to get permission from Mr. Ocax, the great horned owl. Poppy must travel to Mr. Ocax to get permission. Poppy says no because Poppy and Ragweed were dancing on Bannocock Hill without Mr. Ocax permission. Mr. Ocax decides to eat Ragweed as a warning. Poppy spends the rest of the day wondering why Mr. Ocax won't let them move to New House. <BR>Poppy decides to go to new house and figure out what is there. She starts off and she gets to Mr. Ocax's dead branch but he's not there. He must be guarding New House. So Poppy decides to rest. Then all of a sudden she is chased by a fox. She needed to find shelter. She finds a log and quickly hustles in. She feels this hot breath on her. The frightful thing gets closer.     Suddenly, she hears a voice. <BR>Later, the Porcupine Earth explains how she loves salt licks. At New House she had remembered seeing one. So Poppy made a deal. If Earth would protect her, Poppy would give her the salt lick. So, the next morning they reached New House where Mr. Ocax convinces Earth that Poppy is tricking her. Earth forgets about Poppy and goes home. Poppy is on her way to the cornfield and she accidentally trips over something sharp. It was one of Earth's quills. Poppy quickly goes into the bushes and she encounters Mr. Ocax. Each with one weapon, Mr. Ocax uses her sharp beak and Poppy uses her sharp pointed tip, they battle to the finish. The winner is... I can't tell you.<BR>Will Poppy make it back to home or will her family starve? Find out by reading Poppy. It is totally great!	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R3OGKESSELFPZQ	006029809X	517650990	The Trouble Begins: A Box of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-3 (The Bad Beginning; The Reptile Room; The Wide Window)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The Bad Beginning A review by: Ginny	*Have you ever missed your parents so much you would do anything to see them? Well I think the Baudelaire siblings miss their parents more in the mysterious adventure book The Bad Beginning by Lemony Snicket. Their parents died in a house fire when the children were at the beach. The children were forced to live with Count Olaf. Count Olaf is mean, selfish, and makes them sleep in the attic. He also makes them make dinner every night even though they don't know how to cook. Now is that the life you want? Here is a little what the author wrote for you!<BR>* \\"I'm sorry to say that the story shown in this picture in front of you is extremely unpleasant. It tells an unhappy tale about three unlucky children. Even though they are charming and clever, the Baudelaire siblings lead lives filled with misery. From the very first page of this book when the children are at the beach and receive terrible news, continuing on through the entire story, disaster lurks at their heels. One might say are magnets for misfortune.\\"<BR>*In this short book alone the three siblings encounter a greedy and repulsive villain, itchy clothes, and a damp attic for a bedroom. I think Count Olaf just keeps them around to get after the family fortune. I don't think he is even related to that family. To get the family fortune he will do anything. For example he black mailed Violet. He said if she doesn't sign the fortune papers over to him he would kill her sister.<BR>*What would you do to escape this unfortunate life? You should read the book The Bad Beginning by Lemony Snicket if you like the kind of books that keeps you on the edge of your seat!	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R38EBDV6UZ521X	1560772832	578080824	A Wrinkle in Time / Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe: Curriculum Unit	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Wrinkle in Time by Grace	Have you ever wanted to go to Mars, another galaxy, or even another dimension? Then set your imagination free with A Wrinkle in Time. The protagonist, Meg Murry, and the antagonist, IT, know nothing of each other in the exposition, but they meet in the rising action. The conflict between them is that Meg is trying to find her father, but IT has him imprisoned. At one point while she is going to find him, something terrifying happens. <BR>`The trees were lashed into a violent frenzy. Meg screamed and clutched at Calvin, and Mrs. Which's authoritative voice called out, \\"Qquiett chilldd.\\"<BR>Did a shadow fall across the moon, or did the moon simply go out, extinguished as abruptly and completely as a candle? There was still the sound of leaves, a terrified, terrifying rushing. All light was gone. Darkness was complete. Suddenly the wind was gone, and all sound. Meg felt that Calvin was being torn from her. When she reached for him, her fingers touched nothing.<BR>She screamed out,  \\"Charles!\\" and whether it was to help him or for him to help her, she did not know. The word was flung back down her throat and she choked on it. <BR>She was completely alone.'<BR>To find out what happens to Meg, you will have to read this book. First, you can get a brief preview of its exciting, unforgettable climax. <BR>`With an immense effort she tried to breathe against the rhythm of IT. But IT's power was too strong. Each time she managed to take a breath out of rhythm an iron hand seemed to squeeze her heart and lungs. <BR>Then she remembered that when they had been standing before the man with the red eyes, and the man with the red eyes had been intoning the multiplication table at them, Charles Wallace had fought against his power by shouting out nursery rhymes, and Calvin by the Gettysburg Address.<BR>\\"Georgie, porgie, pudding and pie,\\" she yelled. \\"Kissed the girls and made them cry.\\" <BR>That was no good. It was too easy for nursery rhymes to fall into the rhythm of IT.<BR>She didn't know the Gettysburg Address. How did the Declaration of Independence begin? She had memorized it only that winter, not because she was required to at school, but simply because she liked it. <BR>\\"We hold these truths to be self-evident!\\" she shouted, \\"that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.\\"<BR>As she cried out the words she felt a mind moving in on her own, felt IT seizing, squeezing her brain. Then she realized that Charles Wallace was speaking, or being spoken through by IT. <BR>\\"But that's exactly what we have on Camazotz. Complete equality. Everybody exactly alike.\\"'<BR>To find out what happens to Meg and her friends in the exciting resolution, I recommend that you read this imaginative novel, A Wrinkle in Time, by Madeleine L'Engle.	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R3MOB3ERG8MIHY	0816710384	145038532	The Whipping Boy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The Whipping Boy a review by Jessica	Have you ever just wanted to run away just because?  In the book Whipping Boy by Sid Fleishmen the antagonist, Prince Brat, takes the Whipping Boy, the protagonist, on a runaway mission because he's bored. They get caught by kidnappers and are their prisoners! Jemmy, the whipping boy, tricks the robbers and runs away.  A kidnapper follows him thinking he's the prince followed by the real prince. Jemmy runs and runs and finally goes into a hollow log terrified and afraid that he will be caught. But soon a bear comes and chases the kidnapper away. Finally, the bear retreats.<br />  Soon the real prince appears right when Jemmy comes out of the hollow log. Jemmy and Prince Brat get a ride to town by a man. In the back was the bear and a lady. The Lady told them that the bear was gentle, but could be fierce to protect the Prince. The kidnapper came again and whips the prince, thinking he is the whipping boy. The bear scares the kidnappers again. They get to town safely and had milk and boiled potatoes. Then the kidnappers once again find them. They chase them into a dark tunnel.<br />  Will they get caught or get out free! What will happen to Prince Brat and Jemmy? Sid Fleishmen is a great author because I feel like I could read it in a whole day. You feel like you're really there. It's so exciting and scary in a way. It deserves the title of a Newbery award winner. I encourage you to read The Whipping Boy by Sid Fleishmen.	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R36NFU4JKRIW9J	0064409422	915528414	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe A review by AJ	The kids are amazed when they see the once dead Aslan alive again. The flabbergasted kids ask all kinds of questions and Aslan tells them to be quiet while they plan revenge against the White Witch. In this scene battle plans are made and Peter shows bravery in this fantasy book.<br /> An amazing battle breaks out with the two sides led by Peter and the White Witch. They ferociously fight back to overthrow the White Witch. In this scene where Peter is wounded in battle, and Lucy heals him with one of her gifts from Father Christmas, will Peter survive?<BR> <BR>When they arrive at the White Witch's castle they see stone sculptures and are amazed because they know that they are not sculptures they were people. This shocked even me.<BR>Those are just three of the most exciting parts in The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe by C.S. Lewis. This is book number two in this nerve-racking series. It was an amazing book that kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time. I want to read all six of the other books in this phenomenal series. I hope that you will take advantage of any opportunity to read this book. I personally enjoyed the action and adventure in this book.	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R3ZVWSY4Z8HKF	0671851632	326538326	Hide and Shriek/Who's Been Sleeping in My Grave?/The Attack of the Aqua Apes/Nightmare in 3-D: Volumes 01-04 (Hardy Boys Casefiles)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hide and Shriek a review by: Molly	Have you ever heard of a town where people play hide-and-go-seek for a dead little boy once a year? In the book Hide and Shriek by R.L. Stine a girl named Randy moves to a strange town on a street called Fear Street. Randy goes to school and sees a poster that says something about a boy's birthday. She heard many other students talking about the birthday. Her friend told her that they celebrate a boy named Pete's birthday once a year. All of the children in the town gather together and play a game of hide and seek.<BR> Randy had to watch her little sister one night and saw a strange boy at the window and then he disappeared. Next Randy went to sleep over and asked her friends who Pete was. Her friends told her that Pete was a little boy who died and loved to play hide and seek. Her friend told her that you would play hide and seek on his birthday and in the woods at night. They told her that Pete's ghost would try to catch somebody and take over their body for a whole year. Randy thought that the strange boy was the person Pete had caught.<BR> When the big day came almost every child in town came. Randy started to run and heard footsteps so she ran up a tree. She felt breathing on her neck and saw the strange boy. Randy ran to the cemetery and the boy followed. She saw Pete's grave and he told Randy he would take over her body. Little ghost children came and put Pete back in his grave forever. Randy and the strange boy were shocked and wondered if Pete would return again and take over someone else's body.<BR> Will Pete play again? You have to read this book because you will be on the edge of your seat!	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R33QGRB2UQT06Y	0613062019	249606149	The Wizard In The Tree (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Wizard in the Tree a book review by Deanna	In the story The Wizard in the Tree By Lloyd Alexander Mallory and a wizard named Arbacan experienced some terrifying adventures. If you like scary adventures, this is the book for you. <BR>When Mallory finds Arbacan in the tree, Arbacan explains that he got put in the tree because Wizard are not supposed to fiddle with nature in the human world before they leave to Vale Innis. If they fiddled with the environment before they left they would be a part of whatever they fiddled with. When Mallory finds somewhere for Arbacan to stay, she goes and get food. When she brings the food back, Scrupnor the squire follows her. He chases Arbacan and Mallory for hours. Finally they get caught. <BR>Will Mallory be forced to be Scrupnor's slave? Will Arbacan get beaten until he grants wishes for Scrupnor? Will Arbacan escape or not? Will Mallory escape? My favorite part is when Mallory and Arbacan have to sneak past all of Scrupnors guards. Will they sneak out without getting caught? They experience fabulous adventures until Arbacan has to leave to Vale Innis. Arbacan gives Mallory a magical gift before he leaves. What power does this gift has? Will Mallory be able to see Arbacan when she needs a friend? I encourage you to read The Wizard in the Tree.	2002-12-12
US	47347384	R2428K4GTXOT8O	037582233X	411811908	Stargirl	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Stargirl Review By Shannon B.	She was elusive. She was today. She was tomorrow. She was the faintest scent of cactus flower, the flitting shadow of an elf owl. We did not know what to make of her. In our minds we tried to pin her to a corkboard like a butterfly, but the pin merely went through and away she flew. These are the exact words of Leo once he finally got a little adjusted to Stargirl by Jerry Spinelli. <BR>From the day she arrives at quiet Mica High everyone knew she was strange; from the strange hippie type cloths she wears, to her pet rat Cinnamon, to her playing of the Ukulele and the strange things she does. From that day on Leo and his friend, Kevin, wanted to get her on their show Hot Seat.<BR> Finally, the day arrived when she was going to be on Hot Seat. Kevin started asking questions. Stargirl was shy. All of a sudden Leo shouted fire one and the seat turned hot. Stargirl jumped up and screamed. Her pet Cinnamon was running all over the set.  Once they calmed down Kevin asked the first question. Stargirl answered the question strangely but she mumbled the answer. Suddenly it happened. Just like that. Without anyone knowing.<BR> This is a very funny book. You will laugh, you will cry. But mainly you will laugh. I advise you to read this book. It's hilarious.	2002-12-11
US	47347384	R3GGO4TEUWITCO	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Holes Reviewed by Shannon	Imagine how you would feel if you had to go to discipline camp for something you didn't do.  That's how Stanley Yelnats felt in the novel Holes, by Louis Sachar.  Stanley was found guilty of stealing a pair of smelly sneakers from a charity center.  Clide Livingston, a famous baseball player, gave these badly odored sneakers.  The judge then sentenced Stanley to a discipline center for stealing Mr. Livingston's sneakers.  What bad luck!<br /> For such bad luck you would think Stanley was under a curse.  He was. His no - good - dirty - rotten - pig - stealing - great - great - grandfather started the curse.  The curse must have been with him after school one day.  These sneakers fell off the highway above when he was walking on the sidewalk.  Now because of this Stanley was sentenced to Camp Green Lake where he has to dig a five foot wide and five foot deep hole everyday, even though he was innocent.  The counselors at Camp Green Lake make the boys dig to build character.  It seemed like they were digging for nothing until Stanley found a gold tube.  To him it didn't seem like a big deal.  To the Warden at Camp Green Lake the gold tube was everything.<BR>  <BR>What could be so great about a little painted gold tube? Stanley wondered.  His friend Zero didn't think anything was great about the gold tube either.  Stanley had been teaching Zero how to read and write five letters everyday because he was homeless and wasn't taught.  Unfortunately, when the Warden found out she was mad.  Stanley was afraid that she would use her rattlesnake venom polished fingernails to scratch him again.  Luckily, she didn't.  Still' he wondered about the gold tube.   Little did Stanley know that the gold tube held a mystery.  This mystery started with his no - good- dirty - rotten - pig - stealing - great - great - grandfather.  A mystery that went back one hundred years ago.  A mystery that has been in the Yelnats family and Camp Green Lake from generation to generation.<br />Holes is agreat novel of mystery and friendship.  I would recommend this book to anyone who likes a mysterious novel.  It's one of my favorites and will have you at the edge of your seat!	2002-12-11
US	47347384	R1XVWF7PGYR3KB	0590353403	400589274	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone by JC	Have you ever done something so amazing that it could save hundreds of people?  In the story, Harry Potter and the Sorcerers Stone, by J.K. Rowling Harry Potter, the protagonist, risks his life to save the rest of the world.<BR> In this story a huge giant named, Hagrid, rescues Harry from his dreadful stepparents the Dursleys. Then Hagrid told Harry why everyone knows his name. Hagrid explained to Harry,  an evil wizard named Voldermort took many wizards and turned them bad. One night Voldermort came to your house ,Harry. and whoever he wanted to kill didnt stand a chance. Your parents fought and fought but he killed them. He also tried to kill you but his spell backfired.  Something about you ,Harry, had stopped him that night.           After that Hagrid gave a letter to Harry telling him that he had been accepted into Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.  He also gave him a very weird list of school supplies.        Harry started to frown and replied sadly, but Hagrid I dont have any money.  Dont worry about that, replied Hagrid. Hagrid got Harrys money out of Gringotts Bank, and he also picked up a very scruffy package.           When Harry got to Hogwarts the first few months went by very quickly and smoothly, except for Harry and his friends detention in the Forbidden Forest.  As he was walking through the woods he saw the most fearful sight.  He soon would find out that the monster he had seen was Voldermort.  Harry also found out that the scruffy package Hagrid had picked up was the Sorcerers Stone, which gives you eternal life.  Harry thought Voldermort wanted it, so Harry told Ron and Hermione about his discoveries, and they had to stop him that night.  When they got to the corridor on the third floor, they ran into one of the things guarding the Stone, a three headed dog.  <BR>Harry, Ron, and Hermione knew that if they got passed the dog,                there would be many more tasks for them to accomplish.  Iencourage you to read this story and find out if Harry can stop Voldermort and stay alive in the process.  If you read this story, you will be on the edge of your seat every time you turn a page! I was!<br />By JC Tretter	2002-12-11
US	47347384	R1V9UUA5LIHNH6	0380721252	101569966	Beverly Cleary: Ellen Tebbits : Runaway Ralph : the Mouse and the Motorcycle : Strider	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Mouse and the Motorcycle by Ellen	Have you ever met a mouse before? In The Mouse and the Motorcycle by Beverly Clearly a young boy meets a mouse. A boy and his parents stay in a Hotel where the mouse, Ralph, lives. Ralph meets Keith, the boy, when Keith can't find his motorcycle. Ralph was riding the motorcycle and fell off the nightstand and landed into a wastebasket. Finally, Keith takes Ralph out of the  wastebasket and tells Ralph how to ride the motorcycle.  Keith lets Ralph ride the motorcycle. Ralph and Keith become good friends. But then, Ralph lost the motorcycle in a laundry bin full of dirty bed sheets, when Keith told him not to ride it.   Keith cared, but on the other hand, he didn't hate Ralph for losing his motorcycle.<BR>      Keith becomes sick and his parents can't find an aspirin anywhere. Ralph finds an aspirin and helps Keith feel better. In fact, he used a toy car of Keith's to get the aspirin to Keith. He was glad that he did that because he wanted to repay Keith. In addition to this, Keith asked Ralph to come home with him. What will Ralph say? Will they find the Motorcycle? Find out and read the Mouse and the Motorcycle by Beverly Cleary.	2002-12-11
US	47347384	RBYF7XI601XHG	0380721252	101569966	Beverly Cleary: Ellen Tebbits : Runaway Ralph : the Mouse and the Motorcycle : Strider	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Mouse and the Motorcycle by Ellen	Have you ever met a mouse before? In The Mouse and the Motorcycle by Beverly Clearly a young boy meets a mouse. A boy and his parents stay in a Hotel where the mouse, Ralph, lives. Ralph meets Keith, the boy, when Keith can't find his motorcycle. Ralph was riding the motorcycle and fell off the nightstand and landed into a wastebasket. Finally, Keith takes Ralph out of the  wastebasket and tells Ralph how to ride the motorcycle.  Keith lets Ralph ride the motorcycle. Ralph and Keith become good friends. But then, Ralph lost the motorcycle in a laundry bin full of dirty bed sheets, when Keith told him not to ride it.   Keith cared, but on the other hand, he didn't hate Ralph for losing his motorcycle.<BR>      Keith becomes sick and his parents can't find an aspirin anywhere. Ralph finds an aspirin and helps Keith feel better. In fact, he used a toy car of Keith's to get the aspirin to Keith. He was glad that he did that because he wanted to repay Keith. In addition to this, Keith asked Ralph to come home with him. What will Ralph say? Will they find the Motorcycle? Find out and read the Mouse and the Motorcycle by Beverly Cleary.	2002-12-11
US	47347384	R2O08GRAPRPNHO	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Wrinkle in Time by Rodfligy	Have you ever wanted to travel in time to a different planet?  That is exactly what happens in the book A Wrinkle in Time by Madeleine Lengle.  Charles Wallace, a very gifted and talented boy, makes friends with some very strange occupants of an old broken down shack in the middle of the woods which leads to a mysterious leave of Charles father, missing bed sheets, and a trip in time.<br />An unusual midnight visit by Charles Wallaces friend, Mrs. Who, unveils the truth about where their father went.  He had traveled in time, or tesseracted to another time. Tesseracting in the book is also known as a wrinkle in time.  One day Charles Wallace, Meg, and her friend, Calvin, venture to Mrs. Whos house and find that Mrs. Who does not live alone.  She lives with her so-called friends, Mrs. Whatsit and Mrs. Which.  Meg is puzzled when the three offer a trip in time.  However, she then realizes these are no ordinary humans.  Meg accepts the offer, and the six of them swirl off to another time.<br />Unfortunately, the three women are lost in the swirl of the tesseract and the children are left to venture the universe alone.  The three children land on a strange planet named Camatotz where everything is perfectly aligned. For example, when one child goes out to bounce a ball, every child goes outside.  When the three musketeers go up to a house to ask for help, all the doors on the street open simultaneously.  The people are then scared of them because there are not 30 of them up and down the street.  The people warn them that if they are not in line soon IT will do away with them.<br />You will believe you are experiencing the actual events if you read the book A Wrinkle in Time, by Madeleine Lengle.	2002-12-11
US	47347384	R30MHTFNG3Q5TX	0590624008	314112483	Santa Paws (#1)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Santa Paws	Do you have a pet that you care a lot about? Gregory Callahans has a dog. One day he lost his dog. He didnt periodly forgot about his dog, Santa Paws. Someone stole Santa Paws. The dog, Santa Paws is a big hero.  He saves lots of people and animals. So he is populate.<BR>Sincerely, It was near Christmas time, and Gregory and his mom went Christmas shopping. Gregory wanted to bring Santa Paws, so his mom let him. Santa Paws stayed in the car while Gregory and his mom went shopping. Santa Paws was just about to go to sleep, then he heard voices that was very close Santa Paws was hesitating. He jumped up barking, scaring the strangers. Then, one of the men took a metal crowbar and smashed it against the window. Then, the man threw a cloth on Santa Pawss nose. It turned out to be drugs. Then, he fainted. The men savor this dognapping. The men took him and put him in a van then drove away<BR>Later, that day, the dog woke up. He just remembered what happened. He was under a canvas cover. Santa Paws looked around and no one was around. The doors were open. This was his chase. He jumped out the doors. He landed on blacktop. The men saw him, so he ran as fast as he can. Santa Paws out ran the men. Now he felt like he couldnt trust no one.<BR>Back at the store, Gregory was done shopping, so him and his mom went to the car. There were tons of people around their car. They moved the people then they were socked. There was a broken window and Santa Paws was gone. Gregory did very thing they could. They called the police, when they got home. Gregory did very thing he could. Gregory called all of his friends, e-mailed very one in his address book.<BR>Santa Paws was walking now, where was he? How will he get home? Or will he? You have to read Santa Paws Come Home, by Nicholas Edwards, to find out.<br />  (...)	2001-12-14
US	47347384	R38MNHJ6C4Y7KY	0590624008	314112483	Santa Paws (#1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Santa Paws a review by Danielle	Do you have a pet that you care a lot about? Gregory Callahans has a dog. One day he lost his dog. He didn't periodly forgot about his dog, Santa Paws. Someone stole Santa Paws. The dog, Santa Paws is a big hero.  He saves lots of people and animals. So he is populate.<BR>Sincerely, It was near Christmas time, and Gregory and his mom went Christmas shopping. Gregory wanted to bring Santa Paws, so his mom let him. Santa Paws stayed in the car while Gregory and his mom went shopping. Santa Paws was just about to go to sleep, then he heard voices that was very close Santa Paws was hesitating. He jumped up barking, scaring the strangers. Then, one of the men took a metal crowbar and smashed it against the window. Then, the man threw a cloth on Santa Paws's nose. It turned out to be drugs. Then, he fainted. The men savor this dognapping. The men took him and put him in a van then drove away<BR>Later, that day, the dog woke up. He just remembered what happened. He was under a canvas cover. Santa Paws looked around and no one was around. The doors were open. This was his chase. He jumped out the doors. He landed on blacktop. The men saw him, so he ran as fast as he can. Santa Paws out ran the men. Now he felt like he couldn't trust no one.<BR>Back at the store, Gregory was done shopping, so him and his mom went to the car. There were tons of people around their car. They moved the people then they were socked. There was a broken window and Santa Paws was gone. Gregory did very thing they could. They called the police, when they got home. Gregory did very thing he could. Gregory called all of his friends, e-mailed very one in his address book.<BR>Santa Paws was walking now, where was he? How will he get home? Or will he? You have to read Santa Paws Come Home, by Nicholas Edwards, to find out.<br />  <BR>Santa Paws is a dog, a German Shepherd.  In Santa Paws Come Home, Santa Paws is the protagonist. The story is Christmas time. Santa Paws gets dog napped out of the parking lot of the Mall. The people who stole Santa Paws broke the window of the car to get him out. The probable of this story is that someone stole Santa Paws. When he finally runs away from the men who dognapped him it turns out that he is in a big city and doesn't know were to go. At the end Santa Paws does get home. He gets home on Christmas morning.	2001-12-10
US	47347384	R2D7KKWHNE08P6	059045367X	479187489	Monster Blood (Goosebumps, No 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Monster Blood 3 a review by Andrew	Have you ever really wanted to do something to your annoying cousin that gets you into trouble?  Well in this book Evan did just that.  He has to baby sit his annoying little cousin Kermit.  Kermit everyday gets Evan into trouble.  Well one day Kermit got Evan an orange soda.  Evan didn't know but Kermit put in his laughing fluid.  Evan was laughing like crazy and couldn't stop but, when he did his head and his throat hurt.  Then Evan decided to use the MONSTER BLOOD.  What will happen next?  Will Evan turn Kermit into some monster or, will his trick backfire and get him instead.  If you want to find out then I highly recommend that you read this book.<br />  I really liked this book because Kermit is a genius.  He is a genius because he has potions to cure problems.  Also I liked the part where he did Andy's math worksheet.  He did it because he loves math.  His parents bought him stacks and stacks of math books.  But when he did it he did it all wrong and made Andy get a 0.  I liked it because he tricked Andy and got it all wrong.  I liked it because he is so underhanded and, I think I am a little underhanded to.  I also liked the part where Kermit kept trying to make his shrinking potion.  He kept trying and trying.  First, it made Evan all blue.  Then, it made him covered with feathers and Kermit was laughing.  Evan admonished Kermit to quit laughing.  Finally, Kermit tried again and gave the potion to Evan.  He rubbed it all over his blue feathers and waited.  He then gave up and said that it didn't work.  Then, he felt tingly inside and poof he shrunk to normal size.<br />  The main protagonist in this story is probably Evan.  Evan is in 6th grade and is a normal kid likes to play outside but everyday after school he has to watch his annoying little cousin Kermit.  Evan also likes sports like baseball.  He has a mom and a dad but no brothers or sisters.<br />  The name of the character, Evan, is determined in this story.  He is determined because he wants to get good grades and always tries to get strait A's.  Evan is also sort of bossy.  He was bossy when he kept bugging Kermit to come out and play instead of playing with chemical.  Evan doesn't like to be inside a lot he likes to be outside riding bikes around the block or playing sports.  Kermit is mostly inside mixing chemicals to make potions.  Kermit is also very good at maneuvering his chemicals.  Evan always reproves to Kermit to stop using chemicals.  Those are probably the most personal traits about Evan and some about Kermit. (the genius.)<br />  I sort of can relate to Evan.  I can understand how Evan felt and why he felt that way.  Evan was a good kid and I liked him a lot.  I liked him because he didn't stay inside all day like his annoying little cousin Kermit.  When Evan was getting really mad at Kermit good for him I am glad that he got mad at him.  But he really can't yell at Kermit because Kermit is very sensible and will cry a lot.  This book was really good and I enjoyed it.  Will Evan turn back to normal or will he stay the same?  Read this book and you will find out just like how I found out I read it.et good grades and always tries to get strait A's.  Evan is also sort of bossy.  He was bossy when he kept bugging Kermit to come out and play instead of playing with chemical.  Evan doesn't like to be inside a lot he likes to be outside riding bikes around the block or playing sports.  Kermit is mostly inside mixing chemicals to make potions.  Kermit is also very good at maneuvering his chemicals.  Evan always reproves to Kermit to stop using chemicals.  Those are probably the most personal traits about Evan and some about Kermit. (the genius.)<br />  I sort of can relate to Evan.  I can understand how Evan felt and why he felt that way.  Evan was a good kid and I liked him a lot.  I liked him because he didn't stay inside all day like his annoying little cousin Kermit.  When Evan was getting really mad at Kermit good for him I am glad that he got mad at him.  But he really can't yell at Kermit because Kermit is very sensible and will cry a lot.  This book was really good and I enjoyed it.  Will Evan turn back to normal or will he stay the same?  Read this book and you will find out just like how I found out I read it.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	RHN298U4U0P1Y	0875184855	592477269	Madeline L'Engle: Author of a Wrinkle in Time (People in Focus)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Wrinkle In Time Review by Andy	Have you ever visited another galaxy? Meg Murry, in this book, with her brother, Charles Wallace, at her side, in a search of their father. With the help of Mrs. Watsit, Mrs. Who, and Mrs. Which, they travel to different worlds in search of their father, Mr. Murry.<BR> Well, they find their father, but in doing so, Charles Wallace gets trapped in the mind of the evil it. Meg, and her father now have to get Charles from It. <BR> I thought it was a very exciting book. I loved the magical science fiction parts. When I read about how Charles Wallace got trapped in by It, that was when I really started getting in to the book. I loved how the author came up with the names of creatures and their talents. She described their physical features so well I could almost picture them in my mind. Now that I have read this book, I wonder if there are really other worlds, other creatures, and battles between good and evil somewhere in the universe. Maybe someday we will find out the truth to it all. We are still looking for answers to this life-long question.<BR> Meg, the protagonist, was very determined. That was one of her greatest strengths, determination. She never gave up looking for her father. When she found him, she thought that he would make everything right, but he couldn't, so he had to leave Charles Wallace behind to get him later from It. She was embittered at her father for not making everything right. She just needed someone to blame. She didn't have many friends. She often got into fights like a hairy-nosed wombat and a rabid mongoose. She got into trouble, talked back to the principal, and got made fun of. This is one of her greatest weaknesses. With her strongest trait, love, she ha to overcome It and free Charles Wallace or he is lost forever.<BR> I could really relate to the protagonist, Meg. She was so excited about getting to her father, when he couldn't save Charles Wallace, her heart turned cold. I feel sorry for her because she didn't know what was going on,she just did as she was told. I liked how Meg was, for lack of a better word, clueless to what's going on. I like that in a character because then I can really relate to them. <BR>  If you want to find out what happens to Charles Wallace and the three mysterious women, read this book. You'll never put it down.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R2OOPV333QBQS0	0689829310	762964419	Shiloh Season: Video Tie In Edition	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Shiloh Season a review by Megan	Have you ever had a man accuse you of stealing his dog or having him try to kill you? Well in the book Shiloh Season by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor, a boy named Marty has this problem. He worked for Judd Travers` for two whole weeks and kept secrets just to keep his beat up dog named Shiloh. Judd says Marty did not even earn that dog and it still belongs to himself. So Judd starts to drink more and more beer. Then all of the sudden one night he got so drunk he got in an accident. One night Marty and Shiloh were taking a jog down to Dr. Murphy's and he was not home, but Judd was around. They took a rest on a log and right in the middle of Marty and Shiloh a bullet comes flying. Judd! That is all that came to Marty's mind. Was it Marty or Shiloh he was trying to kill? Well if you want to know read this book! It's a great adventure story. I think you'll love it!<BR> I like this book a lot, but I did not like it when Judd killed animals and tried to shoot at people.<BR>I think the book was pretty neat though. When Marty had his mind full of secrets it made me think about what he might do with them. He might tell someone or he might not tell anyone. Then I was thinking of what might happen if he spilled out a secret. What might that lead to? This book kept me in a lot of suspense throughout the whole time I read it. The book has many cliffhangers in it so it makes me want to keep reading. I really enjoyed the book, but that Judd Travers made the book have some horrible scenes that were hard to understand and was uncomfortable to read. That's how I feel about this book.<BR> The main character in the book I read is Marty.  Everything is based on him and his life. He is a 10 year old boy who lives in Friendly, West Virginia. Marty has blond hair and two bratty sisters. Their names are Dara Lynn and Becky. He also has a friend named David. They go to school together and are in the same class. Marty has many traits throughout the book. One is he is a very curious boy who always needs to know things. He is also a very courageous kid. He is always spying on Judd, making sure he doesn't do bad things. Marty is a very caring kid. When his dad thought Judd was hunting in their woods, Marty was worried about Dara Lynn and Becky, but most of all Shiloh. Marty has many strengths. One is he is very good in school. His teacher feels that he wrote a great report but he must use his \\"family\\" language at home and good grammar in school. He also is a very good spy. He goes to Judd's house with his friend David. They were being very underhanded. Marty also has weaknesses. He just barely leaves Shiloh to get on the school bus.  Rarely does Marty ever go to friends house for a long time. Those are some of his strengths and weaknesses.<BR> I think Marty does all the right things! I think Marty loves Shiloh so much that whenever he is not with him he anticipates being with him. To me Marty resents Judd Travers. Everything in Marty's life seems to be very bewildering. During the book everything seems to change my mind. One minute I like the book, the next minute I do not like the book. Marty, a young 10 year old, seems to do quite a lot for his age. He is a very brave young boy to me. I like this book a lot because it makes you feel like you go right inside and the book comes alive. This was a spectacular book! I hope you will read it.<BR> I thought this book was wonderful because it made me think about how hard life could be and that I do have a good life so I should be proud.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R21MU2VLMMODHE	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	HOLES a review by Abby	HOLES<br />Have you ever found savior on what you thought was Gods thumb?<BR>Well in the story Holes a boy named Stanley, the protagonist, is accused of steeling a pair of shoes. So he had a choice he could go to jail or go to a camp called Camp Green Lake. He chose Camp Green Lake. After a while at Camp Green Lake he got as sore as a person who got beat up all day. When he was finished he got a four-minute shower. This went on day after day. Except one day while digging he found a gold tube with the anisole K.B on it. Then a boy named Zigzag, his friend, gave the tube to the warden. So zigzag got the rest of the day off instead of Stanley. Then some time after Stanley, a boy, had pretended to steel some sunflower seeds. Zero, Stanley's friend, hit one of the leaders with a shovel across the face and ran away. Then Stanley as quickly as he could ran the water truck in to a hole when he went to fined Zero. He found Zero under an old boat that said Mary-Lou on it and then him and Zero went on torts what they thought was the big thumb of God. They finally got to the top of the mountain where the big thumb was. Will Stanley and Zero ever go home or not?<BR>I thought this book was funny. It was interesting at times too. I thought it was funny when Stanley drove the water truck in to a hole. I liked it when Stanley told stories about people like his no good pig steeling great great grand father in between. I thought Stanley was a funny person who had a strange personality at first. He could always see his friends looking over his shoulder when he was reading a letter from his mom. I thought it was cool when it seemed like the author was talking about to things at once.<BR>  The protagonist, Stanley, was accused of steeling some shoes. Another protagonist, Zero, was Stanley's friend. Stanley was as big as a bear and Zero was as good of a digger than any one. Stanley was a frail after digging. Zero was also underhanded and undaunted. Zero had maneuvered digging but Stanleyhad not. Stanley's last name is his first name backward. Zero used to have a mom but she ran away when he was little Zero also did not have many friends. <BR>I liked Zero and Stanley because they had lots of things to share with each other and they did a lot together. To see what happens next read the book Holes.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R2SICZ91QXSC5S	157131606X	577368402	Behind the Bedroom Wall	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Behind The Bedroom Wall a review by:Lauren	Have you ever heard a tapping in your bedroom wall, and found that there were people in it?  Well, 13 year-old Korinna Rehme, the main character in Behind The Bedroom Wall, had that experience.  First Korinna found two Jews in her wall hiding from the Nazi people and Hitler.  Hitler, the ruler of Germany, believes that Germany has a \\"Jewish problem.\\"  Sophi Krugmannn and her daughter Rachel, who is five, are in Korinna's bedroom wall hiding from Hitler.  Korinna is in a club called Jungmadel along with her two friends.  Jungmadel is a club where people insult and tease Jews.  Korinna thinks her parents are traitors, because they didn't tell her about the people in Korinna's own bedroom wall.  As Korinna gets to know the Jews her sympathies begin to turn.  Will the Nazi people find Sophi and Rachel in Korinna's house?  Will Korinna and her family be in danger? <BR> Korinna is trying to keep the Jew problem a secret from her friends and even from her other relatives.  Periodically Korinna tries to tell her friend Eva who doesn't mind Jews.  Thankfully Korinna keeps changing the subject.  Will Eva find out Korinna's secret?  Will Eva then tell Korinna's other friend Rita, who already told on her Aunt?  Korinna's secret is bugging her.<BR> I felt scared about Korinna's problem, because if the Nazi people ever found out about the Jews, Korinna could lead her life into danger.  This is an excellent mystery book and you can't stop reading it.  This book reminded  me not to treat other people differently who have different religions or different skin colors.  <BR> Korinna, the protagonist, has blue eyes, long blonde hair and is kind.  Korinna treats Jewish people like dirt.  Korinna's friend Rita dislikes Jewish people, along with Korinna.  Korinna is undaunted by Jews.  She is flustered that Jews are in her bedroom wall.  Rita, Korinna's friend, trifles the Jewish.  <BR> I like this book because it would be fun to have people in your wall, but not if they are your enemies.I recommend this book to people who like mystery books, because this will keep you at the edge of your seat!  This is a very exciting book!  I enjoyed it and I know you will too.  Will Korinna, her family, and the two Jewish people get caught?  You'll just have to read, Behind the Bedroom Wall to find out the answer.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R1TN53D9HSPKXS	0440226708	198404833	The Incredible Journey	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Incredible Journey a review by Shelly	Did you ever have pets that try to go to their own home. In the book The Incredible Journey John Longridge's two dogs and one cat try to go to their home. When John went on a fishing trip he left them out because he thought they wouldn't run away. First, when he left the red-gold Labrador, the animals' leader, headed down the road. Next, he had a feeling that he was heading the right way. These animals just started an incredible journey.<BR>The old English bull terrier was very weak, hungry and tired. Then on the way he fell and wouldn't get up. The wheat-colored Siamese and Labrador tried to get him up but he wouldn't move. When' a bear cub attacked him the Siamese and Labrador attacked the cub. After a few days he got up and moved on. Later the cat fell down a waterfall but is okay that was a sad part. I liked it when the Labrador tried to save the Siamese because he cared about him. When he left a girl who found him he was okay. The cat's fur was as silky as a silk blanket. Another sad part is when the Labrador goes after a porcine and has needles in the side of his face. A great part is when the animals get back together and rejoin.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R18OCNCBCRGNCH	0380719223	924818722	Mariel of Redwall (Redwall, Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Merial of Redwall by Lee	Meriel of Redwall<br /> <br /> Where you ever thrown of a ship with ship with a rope around your neck? Meriel, the Mouse Maid, was on a ship in a storm when she was cast on a log. Then a segall attacked by a seagull. She tried to stop it but if she did she would drown. <BR> She did make it back to land, but how would she survive? Where would she get food and water? How would she gel home? That's for you to find out!<BR> I thought the plot was good. I think the best part is when seagulls attacked her. I liked this part because I kept me on the edge of my seat. Also I liked the part were she is being attacked by toads. They almost killed he but the long patrol saved her.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R1DDHSGLNJFO3N	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Holes a review by Peter	Have you ever had to dig one hole every day?  Some criminal kids in Louis Sachar's book Holes did.  In Camp Green Lake, you had to do this every day for eighteen months!  The holes had to be five feet deep by five feet across.  There was only one rule at this camp: Don't upset the Warden, the person who ran the camp.  She had nail polish that was made from extract of snake venom, which she used to threaten people who didn't do what she wanted.  The Warden scratched Mr. Sir, the person who ran the camp and his face became swollen.  The camp became unsanitary because Mr. Sir couldn't see out of his eyes well enough to clean the camp.<BR>One day, Stanley, a boy at the camp, found a gold lipstick cap, with the initials, K.B. engraved on it.  He wondered what it stood for.  He asked one of the other boys in his tent what to do with it.  They said that the Warden would want to see it.  Would Stanley keep it from the Warden?  Would the Warden find out from another boy what Stanley has?  Well, Stanley did keep it from the Warden, but she has her way of knowing things.<BR>The plot was very well thought up and I enjoyed the whole thing.  I enjoyed it because the protagonist went to very breathtaking places.  He climbed \\"God's Thumb\\", a giant mountain that looked like a thumb.  The plot had a lot of flashbacks and it was like I got lost in time.<BR>Stanley Yelnats, the protagonist, was brave and scared.  The kids in his tent nicknamed him Caveman because he was big for age.  He was brave when he did everything he could to overcome the Warden.  He was scared if the Warden would catch him.  He was always dusty and dirty from working on the \\"lake\\".  One of his strengths was digging holes.  One of his weaknesses was dealing with the Warden.<BR>I feel that Stanley will eventually overcome the Warden.  I like that Stanley never gives up easily, but...when the going gets tough, Stanley gets going.<BR>I enjoyed this book and I hope you will, too.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R2RA7VDJGUXDRO	059050214X	345746823	A Journey to the New World: The Diary of Remember Patience Whipple, Mayflower, 1620 (Dear America Series)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A Journey to the New World a review by Emily	New World Have you ever ridden a boat in the Atlantic Ocean?  In the story A Journey To The New World Remember Patience Whipple, the protagonist, and her family went on the Mayflower over to the New World from Holland.  Most of the book was written about when they were on the Mayflower.  Some parts of the book were really sad, but it was also a very great book!  The reason for the sadness was because many people died on the journey.  <BR> Remember Patience's nickname was Mem.  Mem was easier to say than Remember Patience.  Mem , the oldest of her sibling, was twelve.  Mem's little sister, Blessing, was a baby.  Mem met a girl named Hummy on the Mayflower.  The girls became best friends.  Both girls met Will Butten, Deacon Fullers servant.  He was a clever man.  Will does finger games with the crying babies on the Mayflower, and he actually makes them stop crying.  Mem and Hummy became close to Will.  They were all really good friends.  One day Will got sick, so Mem went to talk to the doctor.  The doctor said that he was not going to give Will any medicine because he did not want to waste it.  The reason the doctor would not give Will any medicine was because he was a servant.  Mem and Hummy looked for another doctor.  When they found one he rushed to see Will.  It was too late he was so sick, but the doctor still gave the medicine to him.  It didn't help, Will died anyway.  Hummy and Mem were so sad.  They made some really nice fabric braids that they put in the water after Will's body was thrown overboard.  <BR> In the book there are a lot of insistences like the part about Will.  If you want to read about these, read the book A Journey to the New World .  I like it and so will you.<BR> In this book there are a lot of things I liked, but the best parts of this story was when Mem was with the Indians.  I like this part because she told about everything that happened.  This book is so detailed and because of details this book sounds so true.  This book is like a real diary.  Another part of this book I liked was when the Mayflower got to Cape Cod and was making their way to the land.  I like this part because she explained about every exciting moment that happened.  <BR> Remember Patience Whipple, the protagonist, was twelve years old.  She had brown hair and brown eyes.  Remember Patience was very curious because she always wanted to wonder off and she was brave to go into the sick house with the sick people.  She also was very determined, she never gave up trying to survive.  In this book she is always sad because everyone was dying.  One of her weaknesses in the beginning of the book was a weak stomach.  She got used to the sea movement in the middle of the book.  <BR> Remember Patience Whipple, the protagonist, was a good character.  She was just perfect for the part she played in the book, A Journey to the New World.  She was not snotty or mean, she was kind and gentle.  She was kind and gentle because she was kind and helpful to her sister, Blessing.  If I was in her shoes, I would not be as calm as her when everyone was dying.  I love this book it had so many details.  I have never read a book so detailed before.  If you want to have the same feeling as me read A Journey to the New World.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	RUQ2QQDY007FD	0590134620	915013123	Standing in the Light: The Captive Diary of Catharine Carey Logan, Delaware Valley, Pennsylvania, 1763	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Standing in the Light Review by Carly	Did you ever get separated from loved ones for months? Did you ever feel like you were stabbed in the heart? Catharine Carry Logan did when attacks from the Indians were happening to the Quakers. Catharine and her brother, Thomas were captured and separated from each other, then adopted by Indian parents. Since she only speaks English, she can't really communicate to the Indian people. There is one person that can understand her. That person's name is Snow Hunter. He told Catharine that he used to be an English boy. Catharine thought that the Indians were savages before she met Snow Hunter. Many times Catharine despised the Mother that adopted her. Eventually she learns to like them very much.<br /> Many times she missed her brother very much. She often dreams that her brother was close by. Further in the story she took walks with Snow Hunter. One point in the story she dreams that her brother is sick. So Snow Hunter took her to see him. Sure enough he was sick. Catharine gets to take him back to her camp. Then her adopted mother, White Owl, nurses him back to health. Catharine was so happy she felt like a bird that had just learned to fly when Thomas got better. <br /> I really liked this book because it got really exciting in one minute when you turned the page. Also I liked the way they have a person's thoughts and not just their actions. I didn't like the way she wrote down so much sorrow because then it made me feel sad.  The book really makes you think about all the good things that you have and that they can be taken away so quickly. <br /> Catharine, the protagonist has many traits. Her physical features are she has light dirty blond hair like the color of the gold but a little darker. Catharine usually wears a dress and is pretty active. Also she has blue eyes like a blue ocean. Some of her traits are she is very loving toward her brother, she is very good at doing housework. She can also be very joyful at times or just cry her eyes out. Catharine sometimesfeels insecure at night when she was at home for fear of an Indian attack. Catharine sometimes feels incompetent when she tries long division.  Catharine is determined to get home at whatever the cost, until she really understood the Indian people. Another trait of Catharine is she started her diary, she always writes in it so she is loyal. A last trait of her is she loves her family very much. <br /> <br />If Catharine were a real character I would love to have her as a friend. Why? Because she seems to be a lot like my other friends. Like how she needs help with schoolwork like some of my friends and I need help. Another reason I would like to have Catharine, as a friend is she isn't selfish at all. She is a little whiney I think with long division. Why, because she was saying that she couldn't do it.  Catharine would be a good friend because she isn't a snot or popular.  Catharine likes nature so we might take a walk in the woods, because I like nature too.  She also would be a good friend because she is kind to others.  That's why I would like her as a friend.  I felt sometimes sad, happy and just an everyday mood.  <br /> Hi, my name is Carly R. Fairbanks I wrote this review on the book Standing in the Light.  Some of my physical traits are I have brown hair and brown eyes.  Also I wear glasses.  I don't have braces and sometimes I paint my nails.  I usually wear sneakers, but I sometimes wear dress shoes.  I like to wear overalls and snap pants.  My ears aren't pierced so I don't usually wear jewelry.  My favorite color is purple and green so I wear those colors a lot.  I am 5 feet tall. Also I wear a 5  wide size shoe.  <br /> Some of my features are I like to read suspense stories.  I have four people in my family including me.  I have one brother and no sisters.  Some of my hobbies are doing crafts and trying experiments.  <br />Some of my favorite books are Witch of Blackbird Pond, Anne of Green Gables and Frindle.  Also I like a little fantasy too.  Ilike nature a lot too.  My Dad, brother, and I go fishing sometimes.  One time I even got to bring a friend and she really liked it.  I live in Akron N. Y.   I look forward to reading more good books such as this one.  Happy reading!	2001-12-06
US	47347384	R1G1VZXH5RG8GN	0394985702	44303765	There's a Boy in the Girls' Bathroom	Books	4	1	1	N	N	There's A Boy In The Girls Bathroom! A review by Abby	Have you ever been in the girls' bathroom? Jeff Fishkin has!  Bradley, protagonist, is a mean bully who refuses to do his homework. Until the school hired a counselor, named Miss Davis. Miss Davis, school counselor, wears all different weird shirts. One day she wore a white shirt with colorful scribbles on it, another day a blue shirt with yellow mice running all over it. Bradley Chalkers sat in the last row last seat, on an island until a new kid Jeff Fishkin, new kid, came in. Mrs. Ebble his teacher sat Jeff right next to Bradley. Eventually they became friends.<br />Bradley's Mom, Mrs. Chalkers, met Miss Davis on parent teacher conference day Bradley's Mom immediately signed the paper for Bradley to start meeting with Miss Davis. Bradley did not like that at all, but he did it anyways. Her first impression was to stick out her hand and say, \\"It's a pleasure to see you Bradley\\" Miss. Davis, new school counselor, sat at the round table with Bradley and introduced herself. She asked him what he wanted to talk about he said \\"Nothing\\". He was being difficult.<br />Bradley and Jeff became best friends now. Colleen, nice, shy girl, and Melinda, tough girl, not frail, are best friends. Colleen had a crush on Jeff. A few weeks later Melinda gave Bradley a black eye during an argument Jeff became to cool for Bradley because everyone thought Jeff gave Bradley the black eye. Then Melinda, undaunted of boys, gave Jeff a black eye in an argument too. Bradley and Jeff disagreed and got into fights for a while. Then Melinda's best friend Colleen invited them to her birthday party. But Bradley has never been to a party before. So he didn't know how to act. Everyone thought Bradley, not a bully anymore, was amusing even himself. They all became good friends again.<br />My response to the story was that it was funny, humorous and unusual. The part that kept me at the edge of my seat was when Jeff walked into the girls' bathroom. Anther was when Bradley said to Jeff \\"give me a dollar or I'll spit on you\\". That is how the chapters end in this book leaving you thinking what will happen next. Anther part that was suspenseful was when Melinda, a girl, punched a mean bully, like Bradley Chalkers.<br />Bradley, protagonist, a mean bully. Is a heavy twelve year old, also oldest kid in fifth grade. He likes to punch people and get in fights especially with girls, he doesn't mind as long as he doesn't get hurt. He tells enormous lies, has a serious behavior problem. No one likes him except for Carla, new school counselor, Miss Davis, Bradley is on of those kids that is so annoying like a fly, he is very exasperation like. Bradley Chalkers thinks that he doesn't have any gold stars because they don't give gold stars to monsters, like Bradley. Bradley's weaknesses are school, doing homework, and a lot of other things. He is nasty like when he said to the new kid, Jeff \\"give me a dollar or I'll spit on you\\". That was mean.<br />I don't think that I could be able to walk in Bradley's shoes do you?  Bradley never does his homework I always do my homework.  Next I don't like to pick fights with people.  Finally I would never say, \\"give me a dollar or I'll spit on you\\" but Jeff actually gave him a dollar when he said that.  Do you think you could be like Bradley Chalkers?  I couldn't.dollar or I'll spit on you\\". That is how the chapters end in this book leaving you thinking what will happen next. Anther part that was suspenseful was when Melinda, a girl, punched a mean bully, like Bradley Chalkers.<BR>Bradley, protagonist, a mean bully. Is a heavy twelve year old, also oldest kid in fifth grade. He likes to punch people and get in fights especially with girls, he doesn't mind as long as he doesn't get hurt. He tells enormous lies, has a serious behavior problem. No one likes him except for Carla, new school counselor, Miss Davis, Bradley is on of those kids that is so annoying like a fly, he is very exasperation like. Bradley Chalkers thinks that he doesn't have any gold stars because they don't give gold stars to monsters, like Bradley. Bradley's weaknesses are school, doing homework, and a lot of other things. He is nasty like when he said to the new kid, Jeff \\"give me a dollar or I'll spit on you\\". That was mean.<BR>I don't think that I could be able to walk in Bradley's shoes do you?  Bradley never does his homework I always do my homework.  Next I don't like to pick fights with people.  Finally I would never say, \\"give me a dollar or I'll spit on you\\" but Jeff actually gave him a dollar when he said that.  Do you think you could be like Bradley Chalkers?  I couldn't.	2001-12-06
US	47347384	ROQY3X9NSZV82	0385322526	953541585	Even More Short & Shivery: Thirty Spine-Tingling Tales	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Even More Short And Shivery; A Review By: Maris	Even More Short and Shivery<BR>                                                                                                  By: Robert D. San Souci<br />      Have you ever read a book that you were afraid to read because it was so frightening?  For me this book was just like that.  In my book there are forty- five scary stories, but I think the scariest one was \\"Knock, Knock, Knock.\\"  It's about this girl and her boyfriend that were going out to eat, but their car dies.  It was a stormy night and a notice on the radio said that a crazy guy was on the loose, but the had to find a repair shop for their car.  So her boy friend said he would go find one and when he came back he would knock on  the car door  three times.  (spoiler) <BR>       Another spooky story was called \\"A Night Of Terrors.\\"  The story is mostly about a young girl and her dog.  There is another scary maniac on the loose again and the girl is at home with her dog.  She was feeling really depressed and her dog was under the bed.  She put her hand down over the bed and he licked it as always.  Then suddenly a police man burst in the door and told her she had to get out of the house.(spoiler) .<BR>       For me this was a really great book but my favorite short story was probably \\"Knock, Knock, Knock,\\" because it seemed the scariest.  The story I didn't  really like was, \\"A Night Of Terrors,\\" because it was really creepy and kind of sad. (spoiler)  The characters in the story were either dead, scared to death, or completely crazy.  I'm not sure if I want to read this story again, I probably have nightmares or just be freaked out.	2001-11-29
US	47347384	R2S82U9A5YSDRN	0440227194	944115185	Brian's Winter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Brian's Winter By Gary Paulsen a review by Nicole	Have you ever been stranded in the middle of nowhere, in the winter? Brian was stranded for more than 54 days, and no one had found him yet, so Brian knew now that he is going to be there for a while. Brian is worried, he has only some food and he knows that it will only last for some of the time. Well Brian didn't want that to happen, so he got out his hunting tools and went hunting. He got some more food for the winter, and then he was all set. He had a sleeping bag, pots, pans, silverware, matches to start fires, and of course food. I wonder if Brian will survive. Ladies and gentlemen I invite and encourage you to read the book \\"Brian's Winter, By: Gary Paulsen\\".<BR>One thing I dislike about the book was when; he found out in the beginning that he wasn't going to be found for a while. Then he thought on how it was going to be winter very soon! If I was he I would be worried too just like him. Something I liked about the book was at the end when he was found. A lot of times when I read books I am always anxious to see what is going to happen in the book, how it is going to end up. When I was reading \\"Brian's Winter\\" I was so anxious to see what was going to happen. All of these events were happening and it was really exciting for me to read this book. <BR>I would describe Brian, different than other people. Brian is determined, courageous, and smart. He is determined because he has a goal to live through this winter and he is determined to meet his goal. Also Brian is courageous. He has lived this long out there, and hasn't given up by being scared or any thing. Finally he is also smart. In the book \\"Hatchet\\" (the book before \\"Brian's Winter\\") he was smart when he was stranded there he didn't know how to start a fire. He tried rubbing sticks together; rocks together, and it wouldn't work. He got so mad he threw the rocks at the tree and they made some sparks. He hit them on the tree again and they made sparks, then Brian got an idea. When he hit the rocks again and put some wood where the sparks were going to land. He was hoping so much that it would work, but it didn't work. Then Brian thought and he remembered that he has a twenty-dollar bill in his pocket and it was his last hope. So as you can see Brian is very smart. I thought this book \\"Brian's Winter By: Gary Paulsen\\", was excellent. I hope you read it and enjoy it.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2N1JCJ6WJKT7Y	0141301074	496532448	The Twits	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Twits by Roald Dahl a review by Casey	Have you ever seen a married couple who hate each other? Or have you ever seen trained upside-down monkeys that revolt? In this book The Twits by Roald Dahl it happens! Mr. and Mrs. Twits are the nastiest, ugliest, smelliest people in the world. They hate everything except playing jokes on each other! Mr. Twit loves bird pie (with real birds in it!) and training monkeys to do everything upside-down. Mrs. Twit plays the first joke in this book, The Twits and it gets Mr. Twit really mad! The tricks go back and forth between them until Mr. Twit plays the ultimate trick he says that she has the shrinks! (The shrinks is where is your head grows into your neck, your neck grows into your middle, your middle grows into your legs, and your legs grow into your feet!)<BR>Next its time to tell you about the monkeys! Mr. Twit is training his monkeys to do everything upside-down. But alas the monkeys want to go home to Africa. (They hate doing things upside down.)  One day a bird native to Africa, the Roly-Poly Bird comes to visit. Then the monkeys play a trick on the Twits!  The Roly-Poly Bird, from Africa, lets them out of their cage.  The monkeys seize the moment to play the trick.  They take the very, very sticky glue out of Mr. Twit's shed.  (He uses it to catch birds for bird pie on Tuesdays.)  Then the monkeys stick everything to the ceiling in the Twit's house exactly how it was on the floor.  When the Twits come home and go inside they think they're on the ceiling so they stand on their heads and then they get the shrinks, for real!<BR>This book is great for laughs it makes you laugh like a laughing hyena! My favorite part in this book is when the monkeys get back at the Twits. I like this part of the story because I felt sorry for the monkeys having to stand on their heads all day. If I were in the monkeys' position I would have done the same thing! In this book there were some parts I didn't like. One part I didn't like was when Mrs. Twit put her glass eye in Mr. Twit's coffee cup and he almost drank it. The other part I didn't like was when Mr. Twit just lets his wife float away wanting to get rid of her anyway. <BR>Next I'll tell you what the Twits look like. Mr. Twit has a very long beard (he thinks it makes him look wise and handsome but really it makes him look ugly). In his beard are little bits of food from all different meals. Mr. Twit never takes a bath so he smells as bad as Swiss cheese! He wears a plum purple suit everyday. Mr. Twit is horrible at being nice and making friends, (which is probably why he doesn't have any friends). But Mr. Twit may be horrible and nasty but he's good at catching birds and making Mrs. Twit really mad!<BR>Now for Mrs. Twit, she used to be beautiful but then she had ugly thoughts and ugly thoughts make you look as ugly as your thoughts so that makes Mrs. Twit the ugliest person in the world! She's mean and nasty and she hits the monkeys with her cane if they don't do what Mr. Twit says.  Mrs. Twit is as bad at everything Mr. Twit is bad at (which is probably why they're husband and wife!), but Mrs. Twit is a great at cooking (especially worms and birds!).  <BR>I felt different about each character.  I didn't like Mr. Twit at all because he was really mean.  It shows that he was mean when he was going to put kids in his pie instead of birds.  I thought that was really cruel.  As for Mrs. Twit she was as bad as Mr. Twit was because she hit the monkeys.  The only characters I liked were the monkeys, the Muggle-Wumps because they always had hope that they would get free someday.  I liked the book because it was always making me laugh and it kept me reading so that I could find out what would happen next.  That's why I liked the story, The Twits, but you don't have to take my word for it, read the book and find out if you like it!	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2BQLOLL8LC0KI	0871295652	634229302	Narnia: The short musical version : based on "The lion, the witch and the wardrobe" by C.S. Lewis	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe By Katie	Have you ever had an animal talk to you before? Well, in the book The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, four children, Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy find and travel to an imaginary place called Narnia. They leave their home country of London because of air raids were bombing there. So they went to an old professor's house and lived there for a while. The day they came they decided to go and explore the wood and field the next day, but wouldn't you know it began to rain very hard that you couldn't even see the wood or field. They decided to explore the huge house. They went room to room. Until one room with  a humongous wardrobe and a dead dragonfly on the window - sill, Lucy thinks to herself that maybe something great is in the wardrobe. She goes in and finds the country Narnia. I thought this book was great and I think you would too. Read The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe  by C.S. Lewis.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R3QOEVS76D5VCF	157131606X	577368402	Behind the Bedroom Wall	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Behind The Bedroom Wall a review by Kris	By,<BR>     Laura E. Williams   <br />Have you ever read the book BEHIND THE BEDROOM WALL by Laura E. Williams?  It's a good book.  In the beginning Korinna, Rita, and Eva's friend Herr Haase have to go to jail for being part of the Jungmadel.  He was also accused of being a Jew lover.  The German soldiers came to his house and beat him up in the streets in front of everybody.  It was as scary as a horror movie on a Saturday night all alone in the dark. The girls and other people are also being accused of being Jew lovers.  Korinna wants to no why everybody is getting arrested.  The girls learned about it in Jungmadel.    <br />This is a good book. There wasn't a lot of action though.  One of my favorite parts was when Herr Hasse was getting beat up in the streets, in front of everybody.  There was blood on the pearly white snow like on Christmas day. I really liked it when Korinna comes home from school and is looking for her kitten.  She couldn't find it anywhere downstairs so she looked upstairs.  She went in her room and heard a noise, so she looked behind her dresser and she found her cat, but then she saw four yellow eyes.  She moved the dresser even farther and noticed that they're sitting in her own wall were two people wrapped in blankets.  She ran downstairs and told her mother, her mother said,\\" Calm down, come upstairs with me.\\" She told her who they were and why they are there.  They were Jews hiding.  <br />Korinna, the protagonist, is a good kid.  Korinna is a tall girl at the age of thirteen, who has a kitten that she loves dearly.  Korinna is a brown-headed girl with blue eyes.  She goes to a nazi youth group called Jungmadel.  She and her friends go there also.  Korinna lies sometimes.  She tells her family lies about things but then tells her friends the truth.  Korinna does not like the fact that there are to Jews hiding behind her wall.  She just can't take it.  Korinna walks to school everyday.  Whether it is raining, snowing, or if it is 100 degrees F,  Korinna can handle the weather no matter what.  <br />I like the protagonist.  She is a little bit of a liar.  Even though you shouldn't lie she still is a good person.  Not everybody can be perfect. Everybody has to tell at least one lie in their lives.  She likes her friends. She likes to be with them and have them over once in a blue moon.  Korinna is like me because she has dirty blonde hair and I have dirty blonde.  She loves cats and I love cats.  Will Korinna parents sneak more Jews in to the house?  To find out more about Korinna and her family read about her in BEHIND THE BEDROOM WALL.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2HGGN4DN6SRS0	0590462784	372436833	Who Ran My Underwear Up The Flagpole (School Daze Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Who Ran My Underware Up The Flagpole a review by Jessie	Have you ever ran to class in your underwear? Well in my book Eddie Mott did. The Social Studies teacher was 15 minutes late for class. So all the kids went to gym. They were getting dressed when the Social Studies teacher came in. He told all the kids to go to class, because it wasn't over yet. Eddie wanting to be the first person in class ran out of the locker room without putting his pants, and forgetting his books. Then Eddie and all his friends had to go to the principles office. Then he principle asked Eddie why he ran to class in his undrwear. My favorite part of the book was when Eddie ran out of the locker room in his underwear. I encourage you to read this book.If you are in 6th grade you will enjoy this, because Eddie was in 6th grade. The lesson of this book was not to make fun of your friends. At first I did not want to read the book, but when I got to the 2nd chapter it was interesting. Eddie had no weaknesses in the book Who Ran my Underwear up the Flagpole. Some personal traits of Eddie are that he is a good worker, nice, and funny. If you want to find out what happens you should read this book.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2EV3ZQBGLIKR	0060236264	679302059	The Tarantula in My Purse: and 172 Other Wild Pets	Books	4	16	19	N	N	The Taratula in My Purse  a review by:Krissy	Have you ever taken a frog home that you found in the woods? I bet your mom told you to put it outside immediately. Well, if you went to the Georges' household, the setting of my story, that is all you would find! Tarantulas, crows, owls, fish, frogs, you name it and you will probably find it roaming freely in the house. Jean Craighead George, the mother and protagonist, was raised to love animals and keep them as her pets, so she brought up her three children the same way. You probably can't believe that someone would keep a skunk as a lovable pet, but they did!<BR> <BR>The only animal you wouldn't hear about in their house was a bear! The Georges even had a pond, as real as one outside, in their house built by their neighbor who worked with cement. Read this book and find out why all the fish in their pond start dying. Find out why they had to get rid of a crow as viscous as a hunting dog, or how they found a baby bird as small as a cotton ball that could fit in a teacup. It is all in the amazing and funny book The Tarantula in My Purse.  I learned a lot of interesting facts from this book, and other times I couldn't stop laughing. This book was absolutely terrific and fun to read! <BR> <BR>I thought this book was amazing! The people in my story instinctively kept wild animals as pets! Even when you had to get a special permit, they got one. I think it is hard enough having just a dog as a pet. I could hardly imagine acquiring so many wild pets and having to research exactly what they need. What amazes me is that it wasn't just their mother that did all the work and research, it was the kids too! They helped out, and researched and cleaned up after their animals. The children would never, not do something because it was too messy or they were afraid. Twig, one of those children, had an owl, Yammer, which was soft, gray, and loved television. One day Yammer was watching television stiff as a board, he fell off his perch. Immediately, Twig picked him up and cuddledwith him just like he was her baby brother!<br />This book taught me to be a little more responsible when caring for my dog. They never complained when caring for their many wild pets. I really thought this was a good book to see how you should be responsible when caring for your pet if you want more and more! <br />The protagonists, a family of four, loved wild animals. One of them was a hard working mother. She was divorced when her children were young, so she had to work extremely hard to keep her children and animals happy. Before Jean Craighead George had kids she would go places and research animals. This family of Jean and her three children, Twig, Craig and Luke all researched animals over the years and knew a lot about them, just by taking them as pets. From the beginning of this story, until the end when her kids left and were now adults, the Georges had over one hundred seventy-two pets! Whether they stayed for a day or a year, whether they were a bird or a snake, Jean Craighead and her family took good care of them.<br />I thought the characters in my book were very different from most people I know. It would take me a lot of time to get used to living in their household. I am not used to having wild animals saunter around my house. The whole George family seemed jaunty. Although they had lots of difficulties with their wild pets, they never seemed to be very solemn or act gravely. Many times, though, I thought it would be fun to play with all the baby chicks, turtles and birds. I liked how the characters got the animals to love them and do all these funny things every time they wanted to play or eat. Finally, I enjoyed how passionate they were about their pets. You never had to tell them twice to play with their animals, because that was all they did! <br />So, do you think you love animals? Well, you should read this book to see how much you could really love animals and find out interesting facts. This book was terrific, it taught good morals and madeyou laugh, it even taught you some cool facts. I encourage you to read this book.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2JRNSGAD40CMO	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Bad Beginning by Joe	In the beginning of this book the Baudelaire children's parents parish in a terrible house fire. They find out by their parents good friend Mr. Poe who is a banker for the city bank. The children were very upset. They stayed with Mr. Poe for one night. Then in the morning he took them to a near by relative (their parents had requested that the stay with a relative) their new guardian was called Count Olaf. This man was very cruel to the children. He made them make their own meals and for him and his theatre troupe. They made them a meal and the men didn't like it so they had to make them another meal. Every miring Count Olaf made them a list of jobs to do each day. All of their chores were hard for any child to do.<br />I really didn't like the way Count Olaf treated the children. He treated them very badly. He would beat them if they didn't do their chores good enough. He also supplied them with a very old crummy bed with lumps and the springs were sticking out also. I also liked the way Klaus thinks out his plans to stop Count Olaf.<br />The protagonists, Violet, Klaus and Sunny, all hate Count Olaf. They all try to contact Mr. Poe at the bank but he just doesn't believe that he is that cruel to them. Also they protect their fortune. They never give up with any thing either. <br />The Baudelaire children are brave. The always-out wit Count Olaf in hide plans to steal their fortune. I wouldn't like to be them! It would be such a hard time for me to have my parents die in a fire and try to protect their fortune. I would of given up the first day. This situation would be too tough for me. I encourage you to read the book the Bad Beginning!	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2H78YHWKARY1C	0440227194	944115185	Brian's Winter	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Brian's Winter By Gary Paulsen	Have you ever been stranded in the middle of nowhere, in the winter? Brains was stranded for more than 54 days, and no one had found him yet, so Brian knew now that he is going to be there for a while. Brian is worried, he has only some food and he knows that it will only last for some of the time. Well Brian didn't want that to happen, so he got out his hunting tools and went hunting. He got some more food for the winter, and then he was all set. He had a sleeping bag, pots, pans, silverware, matches to start fires, and of course food. I wonder if Brian will survive. Ladies and gentlemen I invite and encourage you to read the book \\"Brian's Winter, By: Gary Paulsen\\".<BR>One thing I dislike about the book was when; he found out in the beginning that he wasn't going to be found for a while. Then he thought on how it was going to be winter very soon! If I was he I would be worried too just like him. Something I liked about the book was at the end when he was found. A lot of times when I read books I am always anxious to see what is going to happen in the book, how it is going to end up. When I was reading \\"Brian's Winter\\" I was so anxious to see what was going to happen. All of these events were happening and it was really exciting for me to read this book. <BR>I would describe Brian, different than other people. Brian is determined, courageous, and smart. He is determined because he has a goal to live through this winter and he is determined to meet his goal. Also Brian is courageous. He has lived this long out there, and hasn't given up by being scared or any thing. Finally he is also smart. In the book \\"Hatchet\\" (the book before \\"Brian's Winter\\") he was smart when he was stranded there he didn't know how to start a fire. He tried rubbing sticks together; rocks together, and it wouldn't work. He got so mad he threw the rocks at the tree and they made some sparks. He hit them on the tree again and they made sparks, then Brian got an idea. When he hit the rocks again and put some wood where the sparks were going to land. He was hoping so much that it would work, but it didn't work. Then Brian thought and he remembered that he has a twenty-dollar bill in his pocket and it was his last hope. So as you can see Brian is very smart. I thought this book \\"Brian's Winter By: Gary Paulsen\\", was excellent. I hope you read it and enjoy it.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R6B5M2PE912DO	0671529595	627693323	The Runaway (Fear Street Series #41)	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Runaway a review by Joe	Have you ever heard of a girl with telekinetic powers? Well in the book Runaway a girl named Felicia has powers to move things with her mind. One problem, she couldn't control her powers. So she became a runaway. After he escaped all the tests people were doing on her she went to a town called Shadyside. There she met a boy called Nick and his girlfriend Zan, short for Alexandria. Felicia became runaway because at her old town she killed two people. Zan found out about her secret and tried to kill her. Next her friend Debbie tried to kill her. Do you think she think survived?<BR>           While I was reading the book, I was on the edge of my seat. Everyday I read two to four chapters. When I was reading the book I pictured I was in the book watching everything. Everyday when I was in school I couldn't wait until my study hall so I could read the book. One weekend I stayed up from 9:00pm to 1:00am finishing the book. I absolutely could not put the book down. The book had so much action and excitement. That is what I look for in a book. <BR>           Felicia, the protagonist, is tall, slender, brown eyes, and long brown hair. Her personality traits are nice, caring, helpful, concerned, generous and courageous. She showed she was helpful by helping out at the Burger Basket. She showed she was courageous when the Burger Basket started on fire and people were still trapped inside the building. She went inside and cleared the fire with her telekinetic powers. She has a couple of strengths and weaknesses. Her strengths are that she has telekinetic powers. Her weaknesses are that she cannot control them. They just go off when ever they feel like it. An example is when she was in school, she felt the powers swell inside of her, then they just burst out and a row of lockers began to tremble and books began to slam against the lockers. <BR> Felicia seems like a nice girl. She seems she would help out no matter what the situation. She acted strange a few times but people gotused to it, except for Zan. It seems like she had a lot of adventures. This was a good book, I hope you read it.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R33OVL8ZLOFY0U	0689823274	790767337	Shiloh Trilogy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Shiloh Season by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor a review by Kyle	Have you ever worked for somebody to buy their dog and a man wants to try<br />to kill it? Well, Marty Preston, the main character, has.  He found a dog and named it <br />Shiloh.  Marty wanted Shiloh but Judd Travers won't let him have it. Judd hunts and <br />he needs Shiloh to hunt.  The problem is that Judd beats and kicks his dogs and Shiloh<br />doesn't like it.  Marty worked for Judd so he could buy Shiloh.  Marty bought Shiloh<br /> but Judd tries to kill Shiloh so Marty wouldn't have a dog.  <br /> There are many things in this book that I enjoyed. The part I liked was when<br />David Howard, Marty's friend, scared Marty with a Halloween  mask. A part I didn't<br />like is how Judd beats and kicks his dogs. Dogs or any other animals shouldn't be<br />treated like that.  That is what I liked and disliked about this book.<br />The protagonist  of this book is blonde haired, medium tall, and has a dog<br />named Shiloh. Shiloh is a beagle and loves to play with Marty and his sisters. The <br />personality of Marty is like any other boys. He is determined like when he wanted<br />Shiloh. But, he has a problem telling his dad stories about Judd causing trouble.<br />Marty has a couple of strengths and weaknesses. Marty's strengths are: protecting<br />Shiloh from Judd and protecting himself from Judd. Marty's  weaknesses are: <br />telling his dad what happens. <br /> Marty, I thought, was kind of cool.  He protected Shiloh like I would with <br />my dog. He spends time with his family like I do.  Marty stuck up for his friends,<br />Shiloh, and his family. This book can make you laugh or cry. I'm sure you'll<br />love this book.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2N9WLVSB3524E	0671894242	122478601	Bad Moonlight (Fear Street Super Chillers, No. 8)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Bad Moonlight  a review by Lizzy	Have you ever been afraid that you were turning into a wolf?  Danielle, the protagonist, thought she was.  When she joined a band called Bad Moonlight, she started to do things that sane humans would not do, like drink blood.  She also drank from a puddle, like a wolf.  She sometimes also ran on all fours.   <BR> So she went to this guy who was supposed to help her get better; to try to get her to stop acting like a wolf or a dog.  But that is not really what he did.  Then Danielle figured out that the whole band, Bad Moonlight, was werewolves, and they were trying to turn her into one too.  <BR> One of my favorite parts in this book was when Danielle was running from all the band members, who were turning into werewolves.  Then, she decided to go to Dr. Moore for help.  That was the doctor that was supposedly helping her get past acting like a wolf.  At first, it seemed like he totally understood what was happening, and wanted to help her.  But then Kit came in.  Kit is the leader of the wolf pack, and part of the band.  He needed a wife when he turned into a wolf, and so when Danielle joined the band, he thought that she would be the perfect wife.  So he asked his father, Dr. Moore, to try to slowly turn her into a werewolf.  So every time Danielle went to Dr. Moore he was really turning her into a wolf, instead of helping her.  <BR> At the end, Danielle did not marry Kit.  She actually killed him.  When she was under the moonlight, were she was to marry Kit, she turned into a wolf.  Only somehow the moonlight told her what to do, and she bit Kit hard in the neck.  That freed all the other group members from being wolves, as well as Danielle.<BR>  Danielle, the protagonist, was very happy at the end of the book.  She was still with the band, and they were great!  Danielle was also very trusting.  She trusted Dr. Moore with everything.  She told him everything about her home life, her wild fantasies, and acting like a wolf.  She was very stubborn too.  She did onlywhat she wanted.  She would not go for a walk with the group if she did not want to.  <BR> I can somewhat relate to Danielle.  I am also very stubborn sometimes.  I always need an answer for something.  I am also very trusting. I tell my friends and parents' a lot, even though I get in trouble for it sometimes. I'm happy, too.  I don't belong to a band, but I have a lot of friends, and nice parents.  <BR> Do you ever wish that you could turn into a werewolf like Danielle did?  I don't think you would want to after you read this book.  Also, would you ever want to have terrible fantasies that seemed so real, you were screaming and crying even when it wasn't real?  Would you want to find dead people ripped to shreds?  All of this happened to Danielle in the book Bad Moonlight by R. L. Stine.  If any of these questions sparked your interests, I encourage you to read this book warily.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R31W7G8VSEOO9A	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone a review by Pat	Have you ever woken up as a baby, on someone's doorstep?  This is what happened to Harry Potter.<br />When he was just a baby, an evil wizard killed his parents.  Harry defeated the wizard, but he got a scar in the shape of a lightning bolt.<br />He became famous for this event, but strange things were happening to him.  Harry is a troubled boy.  I like how whenever he gets mad, something bad happens.  It is weird.  He was running away from Dudley's friends when he came to a dead end and ended up on the roof.  Then he found he was a wizard.  He was told to go to the train station, to platform #9 .  His uncle just dropped him off and he left!  That was cruel.  Harry asked the lady where the platform was.  She said her sons would show him how to go through.  Then a boy started running right at the wall!  He went right through!  I thought that was cool.  Harry made it through okay.  I thought this scene was cool because no ordinary human could do that.<br />Harry is tall, he wears glasses, and he has black hair.  He also has a star on his forehead in the shape of a lightning bolt.  He is very good at magic.  He also is very smart.  Harry meets a professor named Snape.  He is as sly as a fox.  His is very mean to Harry.  Harry is a good boy.  He always has his homework done.  I think he is a nice person, but sometimes he is mean.  I think that Harry has a lot to deal with, like his homework, and everyone mauling him all over the school.  He also gets yelled at by Snape.If you want to find out more about Harry, read Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2QBNKTBUP9HAA	0590422677	847715879	Avalanche	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Avalanche by Arthur Roth a review by Kristen	Have you ever gone skiing and had a big problem?  Well, when Chris Palmer went skiing he got stuck in an avalanche.  The avalanche is bigger than a tidal wave.  Chris gets stuck in a snow like fort.  Chris is pretty sure his parents will be there the next day looking for him so he tries to stay calm, but then the next day goes by and they don't come.  Chris is stuck there for a whole week!  During that time he keeps his circulation going by moving his legs in place.  Also while he is in there he eats the grouse he shot before the avalanche.  If you want to know about this great book read Avalanche by Arthur Roth.  Find out what happens to Chris.<BR>   In Avalanche I really liked the part when Chris was daydreaming about his life.  It was really interesting how the author would start the chapter by Chris dreaming and then stop and get back to reality.  I liked when he was dreaming about him playing a game of basketball against his brother, Terry.  I also liked how he was dreaming about the red coyote telling him about his sister Jeanette, that had died when she was a baby.  These are some things I really liked about the book.<BR> The main character of Avalanche is Chris Palmer, a fourteen year old boy.  He has brown hair and brown eyes.  Chris has heart problems and cannot play many sports. Chris Palmer is very jealous of his older brother Terry who plays lots of sports and is number one to his father.  Chris so badly wants to show his dad that he, Chris,  is better than Terry.  He is so jealous that he would do anything.  Chris is a great skier so he decides that he will go to Hidden Valley, a place where no one goes in the winter.  Chris wants to show his father and Terry that he is brave.  So he instinctively decides to go and that is when the real trouble starts!  Chris is really good at school and gets really good grades, but is incompetent at sports because of his heart.<BR> I can tell what Chris felt like and how he must have wanted to show Terry and his father he was really great.  I know I would have felt like that too.  After years of Terry being better I would definitely have been very resentful and angry, too.  If I were Chris I would tell my father that it wouldn't be fair to have a favorite.  I know if I felt like that I would have done something about it.  I might have not done something so dangerous, though.  These are some things I think about the main character of the story.<BR> This is a very exciting book because of its great details.  Will Chris ever get out or will he be stuck there forever?  Read Avalanche to find out!	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R30CW6EAY0J27T	0590453688	452525519	Say Cheese and Die! (Goosebumps)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Say Cheese and Die review by Sissy	Have you ever heard of a camera that can tell the future?  Well if you haven&#8217;t, you should ask a boy named Greg how that is.  One day Greg and his friends, Shari, Michael, and Bird, were fooling around, and wandered to the old Coffman house.  This is an old, abandoned, haunted house.  Once the four friends get to the house, they realize where they were.  They all dared each other to go inside.  Strange eyes peer from a high up window, like glowing cat eyes.  Those eyes belonged to Spidey, the Coffman House, housekeeper.  He watches over the house, and keeps all wanderers away.  As the children cautiously enter the house, they soon get lost in the huge, mysterious mansion.  As these four, scared, lost friends, walk around, they find themselves lost in the basement.  Greg, suddenly falls over this stuck out floorboard.  There, they open it, and find and find an old, rustic, camera.  They quietly look at it, and then go on, to doing something else.  When Mike and the others are all dressed up in the clothes they had found, Mike suggests that Greg take a picture of him.  After the photo came out, Mike started down the stairs, to see the picture, and how it turned out.  Suddenly, they all see a big mass flying through the air.  It&#8217;s Mike!  How&#8217;d this happen, they didn&#8217;t know.  After Greg, Shari, and Bird helped him up, they all stare at the photo in disbelief.  The picture had shown Mike falling from the steps.  Mike questioned how the photo came out with him falling, when Greg took the picture before he fell?  None of them knew how to respond.  They couldn&#8217;t believe what they had just seen, and witnessed.<BR>Another day, on Shari&#8217;s birthday, she made Greg bring the camera over.  He really didn&#8217;t want too, because he was afraid that something else bad might happen. When Greg got to her party, she insisted he took a picture of her, seeing as it was her day to rule, her birthday.  As the photo came out, Shari, being so anxious, ripped the photo out of Greg&#8217;s hand, tearing it right in half.  After that, she made him retake the photo, this time waiting for him to show her.  As Greg showed her, her face turned blank, with astonishment.  All four of the friends gathered around, all seeing the same thing Shari and Greg did.  Shari, not in the picture, just the background of where she was, that&#8217;s all the picture showed.  After they continued on with the birthday plans, they headed back into the house.  Someone had noticed something wrong.  Shari missing!  Where was Shari?  Many thoughts rushed through Greg&#8217;s mind: &#8220;What could&#8217;ve happened to her?  Where is she right now?  Is she okay?&#8221;  What would Greg do if Shari never showed up?  Soon the police were at Shari&#8217;s house, and they were searching though everything, trying to find her!  The party quickly ended, and everyone had gone home.  As Greg reached his house, no one was there.  Where were they?  Their new car wasn&#8217;t there either.  What was going on?  Earlier that day, before the party, Greg had taken a picture of the new car, and had just now remembered putting it in his back pocket.  When he pulled it out, he saw it, a photo of their new car, all smashed up.  Still holding the camera, Greg walked into the house, and into his room to find something horrid had happened.  All of his belongings had been thrown about, his room a mess, all torn up.  Suddenly, the phone rang, surprising Greg, causing him to jump.  When Greg answered it, it was his mother.  She told him that his father had been evolved in a serious car accident, and was now in the hospital.  She also said that the new Station Wagon had been totaled!  What would happen next, Greg wondered?  Was it the camera doing all this evil?<BR>After all of this happens, Greg starts getting weird ideas.  What does this camera do?  What do you think it does?  The next day, out of nowhere, Shari turns up!  She said to everyone, that she had just been wandering around in the woods with all of her friends at her party, and suddenly, she was in the middle of the woods all by herself.  Then, this morning, she just remembered waking up in the back woods, and getting up, and going into the house.  That was all that she remembered, and knew about.  It all made sense to Greg at that moment.  He took all of the photos he shot out, and he just looked at them, trying to find out what all of them had in common.  Then it hit him, they were all pictures of what had happened after the photo was taken!  He knew the answer to his question, what was this camera, and what did it do?  It told the future!  <BR>Greg, Shari, Bird and Mike decided that they had to do something with the camera before it did something else to another innocent person.  They had to take the camera back.  Back to the rightful owner of this evil thing.  They had to get rid of it, before it hurt someone else!  Later on that day, the four friends went to the Coffman House.   The thoughts of the camera made Greg think of Spidey.  He wondered if this was his doings, and if he purposely tried to do something to them, to get back at them for taking the camera.  Quietly, and carefully, they all sneaked in the house, as if they were little mice, passing a sleeping cat, and then down to the basement they went.  Cautiously, they put the evil camera back, and started up the stairs.  Ah!  Spidey was at the top, glaring down at them viciously, attempting to come after them.  The children, quaking nervously, looked up frightened to death, wondering what to do, all looked at one another, and ran.  Shoving Spidey over, they all flew out the front door, desperately trying to save their lives.  What would happen next?  What would Spidey do to them, when he caught them?  To know, you&#8217;ll have to read the rest of the book! (...)	2001-11-15
US	47347384	R2I2YOM67PTP1H	0440415802	121406524	Summer of the Monkeys	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Summer of the Monkeys	Summer of the Monkeys                                        <BR> By: Wilson Rawls 290pages<br />Have you ever seen a tree full of monkeys? Well that was the last thing that fourteen year old, Jay Berry Lee thought he'd see. Jay's grandpa tells him that the monkeys escaped from the circus. Jay's grandpa gives him a net for catching the monkeys. Jay tries to catch the monkeys for the big reward. Jay wants the reward for him to buy a pony and a .22(a gun.)<BR> Daisy, Jay's sister has a mixed up leg it's all twisted so that it's hard for her to walk. Daisy is friends with all of the animals, except for the ones that Jay shoots. Do you think that Jay will get his pony and his gun?<BR>   <BR> Jay is determined to catch the monkeys, so that he could acquire a gun and a pony. Every time that Jay would set a trap with an apple in the middle of it the monkeys would come and take the apple and not get caught. When this happened Jay resented the monkeys, and was really mad. Then Jay scolded them and the monkeys seemed bewildered.<BR> I think that Jay was a good character. I liked it when Jay went to catch the monkeys they took the apple from the trap and went back to the tree. This is one of the greatest books that I have ever read because its funny and really neat. So do me a favor and read this book.	2001-11-06
US	47347384	R2JO3B5CC4Q4Z9	0807261955	639289945	Getting Near to Baby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Getting Near to Baby - a refview by Missy	Have you ever lost a baby sister or brother?  Well in the Book Getting Near to Baby, Whila Jo's family lost a baby sister.  So Whila Jo and little sister went to live with their Aunt Patty for a while.  They had the worst time.  Their Aunt Patty made them wear dresses and she took away their other clothes.  Aunt Patty was always bossing them around and telling them whom to play with.  Whila Jo and little sister go sick of it and then they just went to the top of the roof.  Do you think they will ever get down or see their mom again?<br /> I really liked the part when it told how baby died.  I liked that part because I could picture what was happening in my mind.  Also I liked when Whila Jo and little sister went to bible school and it was lunch time.  They were sitting under a tree filled with ticks. They were biting everyone. It was really funny.  I didn't like when Aunt Patty had her friend over and her daughter.  Whila Jo and little sister did not like the daughter.  I didn't like the daughter because she was a mean person.  <br /> In this book, Getting Near to Baby, Whila Jo is the protagonist.  She is really determined.  Also she is a happy person.  Whila Jo likes to wander and stay out with her new friend.  Sometimes she is sad when she thinks about baby.  Some strength Whila Jo has is to stand up for herself and other people.  Some weaknesses are that Whila Jo can't play with any friends that Aunt Patty picks for her.<br /> I think Whila Jo is brave.  Also I really like her because she is tough.  I would not want to be in her shoes.  I would miss my family too much, but I would like to be tough and brave like her!  There are many reasons that I would and wouldn't be her.  This is one of the greatest books because it kept me at the edge of my seat, and so I hope you read Getting Near to Baby by Audrey Columbis.	2001-11-06
US	47347384	R3D6CUTCDG1802	0590466194	503703203	Welcome to Camp Nightmare (Goosebumps, No 9)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Welcome to Camp Nightmare By Tiffany a review	Have you ever been stuck at a camp where everybody keeps disappearing? Well Billy, the protagonist of the book Welcome To Camp Nightmare, has. Billy and his friends can handle the food, the counselors, and Uncle Al. then Jay, Roger, Mike and Colin, his bunkmates, start disappearing one by one. Now what's going on? <BR>First, a snake bit Mike. He got taken away because it hurt so badly. Colin got hit in the head with a baseball. He was seeing double like a bug. Larry threw it so hard that Colin had to go to the hospital. Next Jay and Roger went to the forbidden bunk. Roger screamed like a little baby when it's hungry. Everyone said there was something out there and Roger had just found it. A monster called Sabre had eaten Roger. Jay luckily survived but then disappeared on a walk he took the next day.<BR>Billy had been witnessing all of this. He was scared to death as if he had just been kidnapped. New bunkmates came in Billy's bunk. They were very strange. Billy didn't want to go with them anywhere or do any of the activities. He was so scared. <BR>I feel that it was a great book. I really anticipated turning the pages. I was on the verge of finishing the whole book in one night. I was very frightened when Billy was all alone. I didn't know if he was going to get home. I had to finish the book! <BR>What will happen? What's going on? Why won't his parents answer his letters? What kind of monster is Sabre? All of these questions can be answered when you read the Goosebumps book, Welcome To Camp Nightmare, R.L. Stine. Will Billy get home or even survive? Read the book and find out.	2001-11-06
US	47347384	R2YC6RNUJXC0TR	0440407524	924940218	Shiloh (Yearling Newbery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shiloh by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor	Have you ever wanted a dog so bad that you stole someone else dog but you didn't know it? In the book Shiloh by Phyllis Reynolds Marty does just that. One day Marty went to go shoot some cans up near the bridge. When he got there he started setting up the cans when he saw a dog in the corner of my eye. He started calling it, but the dog would not come.He started walking back home when he saw a dog following him. He turned around and the dog stopped. When he started walking again the dog followed him. When he finaly got home him and his family saw how cute he was but he knew he couldn't keep him. Finally Marty came over to Shiloh and Started to stroke him on the back. He found that the dog had a collar on. His dad came thumping in the driveway when he asked where he got the dog from. Marty grinned and said &quot; up by the shiloh bridge &quot;. Marty went on. Marty named the dog after the old shiloh bridge where he found him. Marty's dad knew that Judd just got a new hunting dog and wondered if that was his. Ladies and Gentlemen I invite and encourage you to read Shiloh by Phyllis Reynolds NAylor.	2001-01-11
US	47347384	R2PFCUDC8CEQDY	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Have you ever been alone on a deserted island with dogs that ate your brother and aleuts which left, butkilled many men in tribe.Well Karana has in the book called Island of the Blue Dolphins written by Scott O'Dell.it all started when the tribe was a having a nice peaceful life and then the aleuts came and made a deal with the tibe that if they would let them stay and hunt they would give them half the pelts they got. So the tribe let them stay and hunt for a few weeks. They hunted and got many otter pelts. When they were going to leave the tribe leader said I want my Share of the pelts, but the aleuts only gave them half of the pelts, and because of that there was a war between the 2 groups. Many men died including karana's Father. After the war was over the aleuts left. The trbe picked a Knew leader which left for a knew land, but before he left he saidthat he would send a ship back to get them.     The ship came back ,but her brother did not get on cause he forgot his spear. Karana saw this and jumped off and the ship left . Acouple of days later her brother got aten by wolves. Since they did this she was going to try to kill them, but first she had to build a house and weapons. When she was done with her tasks of the house and weapons she set out to kill the dogs she killed many dogs. She never killed the leader though. Then one day she wounded him, but she couldn't bring herself to kill him. Will she ever get off the island, or will she stay with her knew pet. Ladies and gentlemen I invite you to read this great book by Scott O'Dell.	2001-01-10
US	47347384	R1ZPQ3O6V90VAI	9995517779	116702984	Do the Funky Pickle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Do The Funky Pickle	Have you ever been to a school dance? After you read Do The Funky Pickle you will never want to go to one again. One day at Plumpstead Middle School an announcement was made that there was going to be a school dance. In hearing this Eddy immediatly got the idea of asking Sunny Wyler to it. On his first attemped he got the answer NO! He now thought he had to impress her by akting tough. So he went to Salam for advice.He didn't like her advice so he went to Pickles for a second opinion. They made a plan that backfired because instead of attracting Sunny he atracted an ugly orange spiked haired, purple lipsicked, Knukle head named Anglepuss. This realy upset her boy friend and he forces Eddy to fight. This scarred Eddy so he writs his will and tries to forget about it but can't. So on the weekend he walks to his old elm. and stares in daze. In this period of time all of the happy memories come flooding back to him. It was like going back in time and watching. Then he walked in the halways and was hypnotized by happy memories. Even when he closed his eyes they were still there. Yet the feeling of the fight hung low in his stomach. He dreaded the day he would have to fight Weasle Munshak. He had no choice it was a closed case. He wishs he had never been born or just stayed in pre-K. This was the worst problem he ever had been in. Little did he know that his friends had a plan. The question is will it benefit either of them?	2001-01-10
US	47347384	R2N7XTAH9MFSQB	0613105427	456502646	Wringer (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wringer	Have you ever been pressured to by so-called &quot;friends&quot; to do something you didn't want to do?  That's exactly what Palmer's position was in the book, Wringer. Every year, Palmer's hometown would hold a Family Fun Fair, and every Family Fun Fair, there was an Annual Pigeon Shoot.  Five thousand pigeons would be shot, and the wounded ones' necks would be wrung by &quot;wringers&quot;. Palmer did not want to be a wringer, and he didn't want to be old enough to be one.  His &quot;friends&quot;, Beans (Arthur), Mutto (Billy), and Henry (George) all wanted to be wringers.  Palmer, of course was the misfit, so unlike them, he didn't want to be one. When a typical January snowstorm hits the neighborhood, something other than snow blows in.  To Palmer's horror, it is a pigeon, which was too dumb to realize it was at the wrong town, and at the wrong house. The pigeon, dubbed &quot;Nipper&quot;, begins to visit Palmer's house regularly.  Palmer decides to keep him as a pet in secret, without Beans, Mutto, Henry, or his parents know.  His neighbor, Dorothy Gruzik comes every day to visit Palmer and Nipper.  They all become good friends. Things begin to get bad with Nipper's arrival.  Every day, Nipper would fly near Palmer and even land on his head in some occasions.  Palmer tries everything to evade Nipper- he stays after school, he goes home a different route, he even disguises himself.  Nipper would always make Palmer feel emabarrassed. The day of the Pigeon Shoot grows nearer and nearer, so Palmer decides it's time for Nipper to leave.  He depends on Dorothy to let Nipper go.  Dorothy does this deed, but at the wrong place, at the wrong time.  She lets him go at the railroad yards- the same place where the pigeons are caught!  Does Nipper get caught?  Will Palmer save him in time?  Read this book to find out.  What would you do to save a friend?  Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to read Wringer, a book you will never put down.	2001-01-09
US	47347384	R1EW8XHPH73CY6	0440422256	655756332	The Egypt Game	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Egypt Game	Have you ever been in an old storage room with a whole bunch of old stuff? While in this book Egypt Game, a girl named Melanie and another girl named April.The two girls go to a store called A-Z Antique Store and looked throght a backyard full of old statues and other things. Then the girls thought it would be fun to play Egyptions everyday after school and ever week end.After awhile they got a little bored by there selfs so they asked another kid that was a boy in there grade. The little boy said why not bored to death! Soon strange things started to happen like the curtins falling down and the statues falling over.The kids would scream but they still want to play so they did. The little boy got a little bored with just the to girls. So they asked another boy. He said surer why not. The girls would wear dresses and the boys would wear pants like they would. Do you think that The Egypt Game went to far? well to find out you have to read this book.	2001-01-09
US	47347384	R3P2ZGKSLH23A7	0590767771	697827074	Tiger Woods: An American Master (Scholastic Biography)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Tiger Woods An American Master by Nicholas Edwards	Have you ever wondered how Tiger Woods became famous?  Well in this book Tiger Woods An American Master by Nicholas Edwards you will find out everything.       Tiger got started at golf from his dad.  Every day when Tiger's dad went to play golf, Tiger would watch from a hightchair.  At 11 months old Tiger took his first shot.  He used a putter his dad cut down for him.  At eighteen months old Tiger learned how to putt.  At three years old Tiger already had perfect form.  At five years old Tiger already has shelves filled with trophies.  He loved golf and knew it would be his future.      Tiger signed up for a golf club as a senior.  In the golf game he made his way through the beginning.  He almost got a record of 62 but only got a 63.  As he went farther in the tournament he could be a master.  Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to read Tiger Woods An American Master by Nicholas Edwards.	2001-01-09
US	47347384	R2RII4U449SUS5	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Holes	Have you ever gone to camp Green Lake? In this (Holes) By Louis Sacher a boy named Stanely Yelnats is going there and Greeen Lake is for troubled boys. Camp green lake is nothing of what Stanely thought it would be. Camp Green lake is dry like a desert and it's been that way for over a hundered years. Stanely and more boys must dig holes 5 feet wide and 5 feet long every day. Stanely is a loud to refill his canteen once a day and take a 4 mintue shower. But he has to watch out for yellow spotted lizards because one bite from them and your dead. The warden at Camp Green lake makes the boys dig holes because she thinks will builed character, but she maybe looking for something. The warren paints her nails with snake venom so don't push her to far. Would you like to go to Camp Green lake? In this book Stanely and his friends can runaway but danger is at every turn and they would not survive very long in that desert like place.Would you try to runaway? Stanely will do anything to solve the mystery of Camp green lake. Wouldn't you like to try to solve the mstery of camp Green lake just to get away from there? Ladies and Gentlemen I invite and encourage you to read the mysterious book Holes by Louis Sacher.	2001-01-09
US	47347384	R30A6SKEHSRQSO	0590226533	246391530	The Winter of Red Snow: The Revolutionary War Diary of Abigail Jane Stewart, Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, 1777 (Dear America)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Winter	Have you ever woundered what it would be like to live during the Rrvolutionary War? Well,in the book Winter of the red snow by Kristina Gregory , a young girl named Abigail Stewart tells all about what it is like. Abigail and her family live in Valley Forge Pennsylvania when the Revlutionary war begains. One day the American soldiers come to their city. She notices their feet leave blood in the snow, they have no boots. When Mrs. Washington and Abigail go to the soliders camp they meet a woman named Mrs.Kern. Her husband, an American solider, had to have his feet removed because they were infected from not waring boots.General Washington wouldn't let her stay if she couldn't find a husband. The Stewarts let her stay with them. France became allies with the Americans.There was a big feast and a &quot;fire of joy&quot;	2001-01-09
US	47347384	RPCGGBEMIHG7G	0590326295	129676300	Trapped!	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Trapped	Have you ever driven your car of of a cliff, and were caught in your car for a week and a couple of days?  Well Jimmy Korne did in the book Trapped by Arthur Roth. Jimmy was driving to his uncle's house after a graduation party,and a deer jumped out in front of him.  Jimmy slammed on his brakes but it was no use,Jimmy hit the deer and lost control, and Jimmy drove his little station wagon off the cliff.  The accident threw Jimmy all of the way accross the car into the passenger's seat.  Jimmy's car lands right side up, but the whole side of the dashboard lands on his foot and he can't get it loose.  Jimmy's worse injury is the cut on his arm.  During this accident the window broke, landed on Jimmy's arm and cut it wide open. For food Jimmy has a couple potatos, and a bag of marshmallows.  Jimmy has a lot of problems right now, such as a lack of food and water.  Jimmy also hasa couple of injuries.  Jimmy also has to go to the bathroom.  He also has problems with some of the weather throughout the the book.    Jimmys station wagon landed near the river. After a couple of days Jimmy finally found out how to get the water. Jimmys idea is to hook a bucket to the hook of his fishing rod.  Jimmy casts the bucket to the nearest pool of water Jimmy lets it sit there a couple of minutes then he starts realing it in. jimmy gets the bucket stuck between 2 big boulders. Jimmy gets another idea stuck in his head. Jimmy cuts of a piece of sleeping bvag and attaches it to the hook. Jimmy casts it to the nearest pool of water and lets it soak there for a litttle while. he reals it in and now he has water. Will Jimmy survive or die? What would you do if you were trapped in the middle of the woods with hardly any food?	2001-01-09
US	47347384	REDY73L63Z7HV	0553526758	866003575	Bud, Not Buddy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bud Not Buddy	Bud Caldwell had just been put in a temporary Foster home.  They had a son named Toddy who was just two years older than Bud.      They thought he was still a baby and they made him sleep on plastic sheeets.  He was ten.  Did they honestly want him to believe tha he was going to wet the bed.    The first morning he was there Todd stuck a pencil up Bud's noes and his noes started bleeding.  Then he socked Todd one but it was going to be a brutal fight that he didn't have much chance of winning. Todd then went into a asthma attack and his mother thought it was all his fault.  Can you beleive that?  Bud got in big trouble.    He had to apoligize to everyone for something Todd started.  They then locked him in their shed and took away Bud's treasured suitcase which had all the things his beloved mother had given him before she died.  What nerve!!  Bud got cut by razor-sharp teeth of a fishhead and was stung by bees.    Afterwards Bud made Todd pea the bed and he ran away to find his father.  Ladies and gentlemen I invite and encourage you to read Bud Not buddy by Cristopher Paul Curtis and find out more about Bud and where Bud runs away to.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R3UGOT3C6PMZIG	9994664050	846661345	Who Ran My Underwear Up the Flagpole?	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Who Ran My undrewear Up the Flagpole?	Have you ever been humiliated in front of you'r entire school before? Well, Eddie in &quot;Who Ran My Underwear Up the Flagpole?&quot; by Jerry Spinelli has. Eddie rushed back to his Social Studies class from the gym locker rooms. Their teacher bellows, &quot; You have 45 seconds to go back and get what you forgot Eddie!&quot; Forgot?&quot; Eddie thought. &quot;What could I have forgotton?&quot; He looked at his desk, his empty desk, he forgot his books!That wasn't the only thing he was missing. He looked down at himself, he had his shoes, socks, and on his legs were nothing! He forgot his pants! Everyone was now checking out his blue and red Superman underwear!! &quot; 20 seconds Mr.Mott.&quot; He made it in 10.    While Eddie was being made fun of, Salem, one of his friends, was busy becoming the new football manager. She tried out for cheerleading, and when she didnt make it, she was walking back when Eddie, who was at football practice, fell at her feet. She lifted up his helmet and she said,  &quot;Eddie?&quot; He was bleeding. She told the coach and he said, &quot; I need a manager.&quot; That's were Salem came in. Ever since Salem became the football manager, everyone was trying to quit. She had to do something. As a soulution, she brought in a briefcase full of snacks. They had snacks every half time. Will Salem be able to save the football team? Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, I  invite and incourage you to read Who RAn My Underwear Up the Flagpole? by Jerry Spinelli. You will love it if you like funny books. So, how did Eddies underwear get up the flagpole?	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R230SJEMQMBD0X	0590312413	629857126	The Castaway	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Castaway	Do you have a pebble bringing penguin as a friend? Well Daniel does in the book &quot;The Castaway&quot;. In this book Daniels boat the Catherina hits a ice berg. The next day Dan ends up on  a island. And he meets a penguin. Penny (the penguins name)brings Dan a beautiful pebble. After Penny brought Dan the pebble she bowed to him. Dan thought this was very odd but he still bowed back to Penny. Everyday from that day on Penny brought Dan a pebble. The reason she did thuis was because she wanted Dan to make her a nest. Also everyday Penny and Dan bowed to eachother. Penny also always took Dan's finger and played with it. Everytime Dan did sothing Penny would almost always be by his side. One day on the island Dan was sick and sleepy. Penny was making so much noise it woke Dan up. Dan got up just in time to get his ore on top of the hut and for the passing by ship to see it Dan made it home and then he was safe. I am sure that you will love this book as much as I did. So go to your library and get this book!	2001-01-05
US	47347384	REYJ54RLC52LR	1561797731	650877463	Darien's Rise (Passages 1: From Adventures in Odyssey)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Passages; Darien's Rise	Have you ever wondered how people think of God in another world?  In the book Passages; Darein's Rise by Paul McCuster, two yuong children, Kyle and Anna were venturing through an old abandoned huose when they found themselves in a diffrent world.  Kyle ends up in a castle and Anna ends up in King Lawrence's closet.  Both are surprised, they didn't know where they were.  Soon they find out they were in Marus. Marus is on a world that has two moons, one was white and the other was a light orange.  Marus is also a country that stroungly beleives in the Unseen One.  Thruogh out the story the King goes mad and looses his faith in the Unseen One,  which causes him to want to kill his best general.  Kyle and Anna were sent by the Unseen One as a protector and a vioce.  kyle is the protector and Anna is the vioce.  Kyle keeps getting these weird feelings and Anna keeps having these wierd dreams.  Eyes of two colors in Marus means you were sent by the Unseen One as a vioce.  Will Kyle and Anna ever make it home?  Does the King succeed in his plot to kill the general?  To find out I invite you to read Passages; Darein's Rise by Paul McCuster.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R24UNBP98CQZU0	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	1	3	59	N	N	Anne Frank	Have you ever been hiding to sane you life? In the diary of Anne Frank, Anne Frank's real diary the Franks, Vaan Danns, and Dussel were.  The Germans hate for Jew grew, and grew during the thirties and forties.  The Nazi leader, Aldof Hitler ordered the extermination of all Jews.  Anne's parents decided to survive they must hide.  Some nights guns could be heard.  Other nights bombs.  One dark night is complete secrecy, Dussel joined the franks and Vaan Danns.  Since Dussel was a dentists he decides to examine everyones mouth.  While checking Mrs. Vaan Dann, he finds a small hole.  When he pricks it she leaps in pain, and starts running around, tool still in her mouth.  She is running around screaming &quot;Get it out!  Get it out!.  No one can stop laughing.  Finally it falls to the floor.  A few weeks later a burglar comes and steals a movis projector.  With that gone everyone is bored.  The one night a warehouse worker turns them in for 5 guldens each.  That is about $1.40 each.  All eight are sent to Naiz death camps.  To find out who surivies you must read &quot;The Diary of Anne Frank.&quot; would you survive?  I urge you to read &quot;The Diary of anne Frank.&quot;	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R1PWTOBPIRONSV	0553526758	866003575	Bud, Not Buddy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bud Not Buddy	Bud Caldwell had just been put in a temporary Foster home.  They had a son named Toddy who was just two years older than Bud.      They thought he was still a baby and they made him sleep on plastic sheeets.  He was ten.  Did they honestly want him to believe tha he was going to wet the bed.    The first morning he was there Todd stuck a pencil up Bud's noes and his noes started bleeding.  Then he socked Todd one but it was going to be a brutal fight that he didn't have much chance of winning. Todd then went into a asthma attack and his mother thought it was all his fault.  Can you beleive that?  Bud got in big trouble.    He had to apoligize to everyone for something Todd started.  They then locked him in their shed and took away Bud's treasured suitcase which had all the things his beloved mother had given him before she died.  What nerve!!  Bud got cut by razor-sharp teeth of a fishhead and was stung by bees.    Afterwards Bud made Todd pea the bed and he ran away to find his father.  Ladies and gentlemen I invite and encourage you to read Bud Not buddy by Cristopher Paul Curtis and find out more about Bud and where Bud runs away to.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R3MM239DZZXACY	0064471195	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia Boxed Set	Books	4	0	4	N	N	The Loin, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Have you ever wondered what might be beyond an ordinary wardrobe? In the book, The Lion ,the Witch, and the Wardrobe, four children,named Peter Susan, Edmund, and Lucymove into an old professors house for the summer. One day they decide to play  a game of hide and go seek and Lucy hides in the wardrobe. Having no idea that it is magic, Lucy just climb into the wardrobe. Lucy soon finds herself in a winter wonderland.In this place called, Narnia, Lucy meets a faun named Mr. Tumnus. Lucy is told that the White Witch wants to capture humans and turn them into stone. Later Lucy returns into the real world. She tells everyone about her adventures in Narnia but everyone thinks she is kidding. Soon everyone finds out Narnia. They meet a beaver and then the beaver tells them the White Witch has caught Mr. Tumnus.  They have to meet a lion named Aslan to set him free. Later they meet him and they make a plan to kill the queen. They go to the queens's castle and kill the queen's army. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite and encourage you to read the book The Lion, The Witch, and the Wardrobe.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R1D1SYWOJKJD92	0440467012	426143543	Otherwise Known as Sheila the Great	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Judy Blume Otherwise Known As Shelia the Great	Have you ever had a friend thet could swim so good it was like she should be in the Olympics, but you can't swim like that at all or you can't even swim at all. The author of this exiciting books. This particlaur one is one of my favorite books of Judy Blume books. Thne main character in my book Shelia, or othwise known as Shelia the great. Shelia is is a witty out going gril. She is also very capable. In the book, Shelia is afraid of dogs, swimming, and spiders. Shelias scholl has just let out for the summer. She has been waiting for a really long time to find out what they will be doing all summer. They ended up going to to spend there summer in Tarry all night long. There Shelia faces some of her worst fears. Shelia's dad knew a porfessor that lived in Tarry Town, and they went to watch his place while they were on vaction. Not only did they have to watch his dog Jennifer, but but her parents made her take swiomming lessons while they were there. Shelia's swimming teacher's name was Hank. Shelia was alaways triyng to  to pretend that she was best at everything. She knew she wouldn't fool her best friend Mouse Ellis who also lived in Trry Town. Mouse Ellis just happened  to be a perfect swimmer and a dog lover.. One of the events that happened was when Shelia has a sleep over with her new friends and also the twins down the street. During the sleep over Shelia and her friends  get mad at each other and they accidentlly  ruin the models that belong to the professors son Bobby. Do think Shelia can make it through her summer? Boys and Girls  I invite, yuo yo read the book Judy Blume Oter wise Known as Shelia the Great.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R3CM012VG4JF91	0064404765	676555907	The Little House Books	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Long Winter	Have you ever been trapped in your home the whole winter and only getting out between blizzards?  The author Laura Ingalls Wilder has in the book The Long Winter. Laura's family had to move off of the lonesome praire into pa's builing in town for the long winter.  Ma told Laura and Carrie that they would have to go to school while they were living in town.  After a while they loved school.  They didn't go to school for long because blizzards hit and it was only clear for one day or less between blizzards.  There was also no coal in town.  One night it snowed so bad that there was snow all the way up to the second floor window.  Laura saw the wild hores's hooves pass the window.  With all the blizzards the train was stopped till the Spring.  There was hardly any food left in town.  There was no meat, crackers, wheat, flour and nothing left in the shops.  The townspeople thought Spring would be in March but it didn't come till April. Laura's family and the Boasts had Christmas dinner in May.  They got a barrel from the church in the big woods.  How long could you be trapped indoors with only bread and potatoes for every meal?	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R29BZ96UUW40FK	0671529595	627693323	The Runaway (Fear Street Series #41)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The Runaway	Have you ever had telekinetic powers and want to get rid of them?  Well, a girl named, Felicia, in Runaway by R.L.Stine did.  Before her telekinetic powers start up again, she wanted to run away.  However, everyone knew she had these powers and that her two best friends were dead as a door nail because of them.  Rather than staying where she was, Felicia ran away from her family and friends to a small town called Shadeyside.  There she meet two new wonderful friends.  Their names were Zan and Nick.  They got her a job cooking hamburgers at a local resturant, and seemed pretty nice.  Zan Nick and Felicia stayed friends for quite a long time. One day, Felicia, overheard two boys talking about how they can't watch a man's cat while he was on a vacation anymore.  She needed the money and a place to sleep at night, so she asked them if she could watch the cat.  They said sure,why not. The next day at work, Zan told her to change the light bulb in the storage room.  When she got there, the room was flooded with water like an indoor pool.  When she took the light bulb out of it's socket, it started a fire.  No one was hurt and everyone got out safly.  That night, when Felicia entered the den area of the man's home, it looked like a hurricane had hit.  There were papers off the desk and on the floor.  Just a she was about to clean up the papers, she noticed there was blood on the walls, too.  When Felicia went to wipe the blood off the walls, she realized it was only red paint.  The thought that someone knows who I really am scared her silly.  When Felicia is about to runaway agian, someone finds out who she really is.  Who could it be?  Ladies and gentlemen, I invite and encourage you to read this fabulous book, Runaway, by R.L. Stine.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R1HDAQUPQXW1XA	0590353403	400589274	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Harry potter and the sorcers stone	Have you ever wanted to fly on a broomstick? Have you ever wanted to go to a school for wizards and witches? In the story harry potter and the sorcers stone a boy named Harry Potter gets dropped on his aunt and uncles door step at their house.  When he became just about ten he starts to get letter. He doesn't know what they say because his uncle takes them away and burns them. the letters just keep coming, so they move. the letters drove them mad. everywhere they moved the letters followed. then on harrys tenth birthday a wizard named Hagrid tells Harry about his parents. Harry's parents got killed by a dark wizard named voldermort. Hagrid asked Harry if he would join a wizard school. Harry said yes. The next morning harry sent a letter telling the school he was joining. Harry and Hagrid went to london. They had to get harrys equipment for wizard school. but first they had to go to the wizard bank for money. It was five hundred miles under london. Harry didn't know it but he was rich. Harry was excited. He learns how to count wizard money. Do you want to know more? I invite and encourage you to read Harry Potter and the Sorcers Stone by J.K Rowling. It will keep you at the edge of your seat	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R3MFEV89K78JA8	0064493679	774320231	Laura's Early Years Collection: Little House in the Big Woods/Little House on the Prairie/on the Ban	Books	5	0	9	N	N	Lttle House on the Prairie	NArrator: Teh days were short and cold, but no snow for Christmas. Laura and Mary sacrificed that Santa Claus would no come because, it would not snow. Laura: &quot;Ma said she would hang up our stockings because, amybe something might happen. Theh Pa said you have only amde things worse, Caroline.&quot; Narrator: But the next morning on Christmas day Mr. Edwards was at their door. Laura: &quot;Pa siad, great fishhooks Edwards! Come in man! What happened?&quot; Mr. Edwards: &quot;I came over here to see Laura and Mary.&quot; Narrator: Mr. Edwards was all wet with his clothes on his head. Laura: &quot;it was too big a risk Edwards. We're glad you are here. However, that was too big a risk Edwards.&quot; Mr. Edwards: &quot; Your little ones had to have a Christmas. I was determined that no creek could stop me to sacrifice after I fetched them their gifts from Independence.&quot; Laura: &quot;Did you see Santa Claus.&quot; Mr. Edwards: &quot; I sure did.&quot; laura: &quot;Where? When? What did he look like?&quot; What did he say?&quot; Did he really give you something mfor us?&quot; Mr: Edwards: &quot;Wait, wait a minute.&quot; Narrator: ma put thier presents in their stockings, as Santa Claus intended. She said they musn't look. While Ma was doing that, Mr. Edwards sat on the floor near Mary and Laura's bed to answer all their questions. Then they started to talk. Mr. Edwards: &quot;When I saw the creek rising, I knew Santa Claus could not get across it.&quot; Laura: &quot;But you crossed it.&quot; Mr. Edwards: &quot;Yes, but Santa Claus is too old and fat. He couldn't make it, where a long,lean razorback like me could do so. So I decided if Santa Claus couldn't give you your presents, I would.&quot; Narrator: Mr. Edwards walked to Independence. And there, coming down the street in Independence, he had met Snata Claus. Laura: &quot;In the day time?&quot; Mr. Edwards: &quot;No, it was night, but light shone accross from the saloons.&quot; Narrator: Hello Edwards, saidSnata Claus. Laura: &quot;Did he know you? How did you know he was really was Santa Claus.&quot; Mr. Edwards: &quot;Santa Claus knows everyone. I recognized Santa at once by his whiskers. He has the longest, thickest, whitest set of whiskers west of Mississippi.&quot; narrator: Santa said hello Edwards! Alst time I saw you, you were sleeping on a cornshuck bed in Tennessee. Do you know any little girls by the name of Laura and Mary? Mr. Edwardss: &quot;I surely am acquainted with them.&quot; Narrator: &quot;It rest heavy on my mind. they are both sweet pretty, little young things, and I know they are expecting me. I surely do hate to disappoint two good little girls like them.&quot; Santa said with a coax vocie, &quot;Yet with the water up it is, I can't ever make it across that creek. Would you do me a favor to them their gifts this one time.&quot; Mr. Edwards: I'll do that and with pleasure. Santa had confidence in me.&quot; Narrator; So Mary and Laura kept asking questions to Mr.Edwards, and he answered them all. Then finally Ma said they can go fet their presents. When they reached into their stockings, they were surprised with amazement. Obn top, ther was a shinny cup for Laura and Mary. They whooped with joy. Tehn they pulled out tow long syicks of candy. Ir was peppermint candy, striped with red and white. Next, they found a heart shaped cake with white frostings and sprinkles.  Laura: 'Oh thank you Mr. Edwards, thank you very much.&quot; Narrator: Nut Ma asked them if their stockings, were empty. they reached inside and found a brand new shinny penny. they frogot to thank him for it. they thought this was the best Chrisrmas ever.  Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to read this exciting story about life on the prairie by Laura Ingalls Wilder.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R2N0MKGHR3V0UK	0613014960	523287547	Yolonda's Genius (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Yolandas Genius	Have you ever realized that one of your siblings is a genius?  Well, thats what Yolanda realizes in a book titled Yolandas Genius.  Andrew, Yolandas brothe , Andrewhas always been talented at playing the harmonica.  He doesn't play how you would think,he plays replicas of sounds he hears.  For example , he would play the sound of a passing car.  Yolanda thinks his playing is magnificent!!  She doesn't realize how special the music is until it stops.  She feels very guilty and upset for the part she plays in Andrews tragedy.  The day the music stopped was the first that Yolanda forgot to pick Andrew up at Aphsalt Hill.  When she finally came for him that day, she found that the harmonica was broken.  Over the next few days, she was determined to figure out what could have happened to Andrew's harmonica.  Then it hit her like a bolt of lightning on a stormy day.  Aphsalt Hill, where she found Andrew, is a place where drugies and unfriendly  kids &quot;hang out&quot; or prowl around.  She realized that the kids at Aphsalt Hill must have broken the harmonica.  She'll never know exactly what Andrew went through that day.  All she wants is for Andrew to get his talent back.  Aunt Tiny, Yolandas favorite aunt, came to visit them from Chicago.  Aunt Tiny suggests they come visit her in their hometown, Chicago.  Yolandas mother approves of the idea.  They decide a few weeks after Aunt Tiny left, that they woulddrive to Chicago.  In Chicago, There is a blues festival.  Yolanda decides she needs someone to notice Andrew, make him a celebrity, and prove he is a true genius.  Will a professional notice him? Will he become a famous musician?  You will only find out if you read Yolandas Genius, an enjoyable story written by Carol Fenner.  Would you go through all of this to prove your sibling is a genius?  I invite and encourage you to read this award winning book titled Yolandas Genius.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R35M6UW16G1UWK	0440998050	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	2	0	8	N	N	A Wrinkle In Time	What would you do if you had to save your father and complete his mission?  In the book &quot;A Wrinkle in Time&quot; by Madeleine L'engle, Meg, CharleWallace, and Calvin have to go to a wierd planet.  Charles' dad was sent on a missiopn and never came back so now they have togo save him with some help from Mrs. Whatsit, Mrs. Who, and Mrs. Which.  To get to a wierd planet, Mrs. Which had to turn invisible and tesserect.  When they were on the planet, they met this man all dressed in black with two black eyes.  One time he tried to get Charles' spirit but Meg knocked it away from him.  Also Charles told Nursery rhymes to try to stop the man from doing it.  Later they actually went to see the actual boss with thier father whom they had rescued.  When they were there, they met the boss, an enormus brain.  The name of the brain was IT.  IT was the bad person who took Charles Wallace's spirit through the man with the red eyes.  Charles came to IT's side.  Then the brain tried to take Meg's spirit over also.  First she tried to think of something that would fight IT's rhythm.  After this started their father didn't like this so he took Meg, Calvin and himself and tesserected to some odd planet.  What would you do if you had to save your father and complete hisission?  Ladies and Gentlemen I would like to encourage you to read A Wrinkle In Time by Madeleine L'engle.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R3W40IRPFGE7PC	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Holes by: Louis Sacher	Have you ever been in a camp where you had to dig a 5x5 hole every day? In Holes by; Louis Sacher, Stanley Yelnats has to spend a jail sentence oor go to camp Green Lake. Stanley only gets a four-moinute shower every day. There are no girls at camp Green Lake execpt for the Warden. Stanley growes strong after he dug about forty holes. Stanley and Zero become good friends, they agree that Stanley will teach Zero how to read, and Zero will dig half of Stanley's hole. The Warden finds out and they are not alowed to do what they agreed. Zero runs away and Stanley steales the water truck to find Zero. Stanley does not know how to drive and he puts the truck in an old hole. Stanley goes after Zero on foot. Stanley finnaly finds Zero and they rest under an old boat. Zero has survived on sploosh. Sploosh is a chunkey green liquid. When all the sploosh was eaten or drinken they head for a mountain shaped like a thumb. They call it God's Thumb. When finnaly climbed to the top of God`s Thumb they filled the unbroken jars with waterfrom a stream.  They filled a cloth sack withonions they found.  They figure out what the Wardenis looking for something.  They go back to camp Green Lake and dig during the night. They find it and the Warden finds them. What is the thing the Warden is looking for? Will Stanley and Zero live to get home? I hope you will read Holes to find out what that thing is. Ladies and Gentle men I hope and enchorage you to read Holes.	2001-01-05
US	47347384	R2Q0N6FGPXQMMD	0140388346	237471096	The Thief	Books	3	0	6	N	N	The Thief By Megan Turner	Do you ever think you will be sentenced to prision?  The Thief By Megan Turner Gen is put in the king's prison for stealing vey valuable items.  One day Gen is pulled out of prison by the Magnus.  A Magnus is the king&quot;s keeper of the god's tales.  He is told he is to steal a prized possession in Eddies.       They embark on a journey to Eddies.  It takes them many days to get where Gen is supposed to steal the treasure.  He had a very rough going trip because Gen had to ride a horse the entire time.  He hated to ride horses.  He also had to do whatever the Magnus told him to do.       Gen has to steal Hamiathes Gift that is a rock that one of the gods dipped in the pond of eternity.  Whoever had it would live forever.  The Magnus wanted Hamaithes Gift because who ever had it would be the ruler of Eddies.  Then the king of Sinuous would rule both Sinuous and Eddies.  Gen has three nights to find the gift.  On his first night he finds out there is a maze inside the cave.  Also when it gets light out the cave fills with water.  On his second night Gen finds an obsidian stone that is is big as him.  There are also many skelotons in a water pool.  They were from other thieves who tried to steal the gift.  When it started to fill with water Gen barely got out alive.  Gen must find Hamaties gift the next night he will die because the Magnus won't let him out of the cave without it.  Can Gen find the gift and survive or will he die of a horrible tragedy?	2001-01-03
US	47347384	R3D8VBDV9ZBSLN	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	&quot;Holes&quot;	&quot;Have you ever gone to Camp Green Lake&quot;In the book &quot;Holes By Louis Sacher.A boy named Stanely Ylenats is going there because he has gotten in trouble and Camp Green Lake is for troubled boys. Camp Green Lake is nothing of what Stanely thought it would be. Camp Green Lake is dry like a desret and it's been like that for over a hundred years.           Stanely and more boys must dig holes five feet wide and five feet wide every day. Stanely is a loud to refill his canteen once aday, and take a four mintue cold shower. But Stanely and the others boys must watch out for the yellow spotted lizards because one bite from them and your dead.<br />     The warren at camp Green Lake makes them dig holes because she thinks it will build character , but she may be looking for something. The warren paints her nails with snake venom so don't push her to far. Would you like to go to Camp Green Lake? In this book Stanely will do anything to solve the mystrey from Camp Green Lake. Would'nt you try to solve it just to get away from there? Stanely and his friends can get away but they would'nt last very out in that desert like place and danger is at every turn. Would you try to get away from camp Green Lake? Ladies and Gentlemen I invited and encourage you to read the mysterious book Holes. By Louis Sacher.	2001-01-03
US	47347384	R1GL1RJL1OMB55	0689829310	762964419	Shiloh Season: Video Tie In Edition	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Shiloh Season	Have you ever struggled to keep your pet? In the book Shiloh Season by Phyllis Reynolds Naylor a boy named Marty Preston tries hard to keep his dog Shiloh. Judd Travers a mean hunter formaly owned Shiloh. Judd attempts to kill Marty and Shiloh.  Judd was trying to shoot Marty when he was at his doctor friend, but luckily missed.  One of Judd's rabid dogs bit Becky in the arm. She was weeping and weeping, but Shiloh came to the rescue when he attacked the mad mutt.  Judd tried to run over Marty and Shiloh with his rusty truck.  One late balmy night Shiloh was sleeping on the porch Judd shot his gun  and woke up Shiloh.  This is a book I recommmend.	2001-01-03
US	47347384	R1TD56O30N4TCE	0590228625	865753481	When Will This Cruel War Be Over?: The Civil War Diary of Emma Simpson, Gordonsville, Virginia, 1864 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	When Will This Cruel War Be Over?	Would you like to live in a cruel war? Barry Deneberg wrote this great story called &quot;When Will This Cruel War Be Over?&quot; It is a story about a young girl whose name is Emma and lives in Virginia in 1864. The war begins when she was about thirteen years old. her family was very rich. When the war began her father left to join the war. She lives with her dearest mother and the Negroes. The Negroes help with the daily chores. Recently she recived a letter from Tally, who she met at a party. He tells her tragic the war is. Mother is very ill with a cold. Emma's cousin Rachel and Aunt Caroline come to stay with them. Often, the doctor comes to see how mother is doing. A couple weeks later, Emma awoken by her Aunt Carolinin an urgency voice to see her mother. Mother told Emma &quot;Tears wouldn't do us any good.&quot; The next day she noticed what her mother meant, her mother died. She grieved to what happened that day. Tally writes to recive garments and clothing. Father writes to tell how sorry he felt about mother's death. He wrote a poem that moved Emma. Aunt Caroline gave birth to a baby girl. One of the Negroes died. The Yankees came to stay at thier house. Mostly all the Negroes left accept Iris and Amos. At the end of the story, the war has not ended, but Emma feels this pain has not ended. Will Emma lose more of her loved ones in this cruel War. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to read a cruel exciting tragic war about a young girl by an outstanding Newbery author.	2001-01-03
US	47347384	R37NNBLICX00X5	0590353403	400589274	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Harry Potter and the Socerer's Stone	Reporter: Good evening ladies and gentlemen! We are here today with Harry Potter from the book &quot;Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.&quot; Harry where do you go to school?<br />Harry:Well, Julian, I go to school at Hogwarts the wizarding school. I'm not suppose to tell you where Hogwarts is found, but I will tell you that it is located somewhere in the hills in Londan.<br />Reporter:So, Harry, in your book you play Quidditch. Could you tell the folks at home what Qudditch is?<br />Harry: Qudditch is a game that we wizards play on broomsticks. There are four balls that you play with and the most important ball is the snitch. It's gold and it has wings. It needs to be caught to add an extra 150 points onto your score to have the game end.<br />Reporter:Well, that soundlike a very fun game, but I have another question. Do you enjoy living with your human aunt and uncle?<br />Harry: No I do not. I can't talk about majic or do anything magic at my muggle house. I have to wear my cousins clothes that are way to big.<br />Repoter: What does muggle mean Harry?<br />Harry: Muggle means in wizard languge human. To most wizards muggles disgust them.<br />Reporter: Harry, are you scared that Voldamort will come back and hurt you?<br />Harry: If voldamort does come back, I will be ready! I'm learning more spells and if he does come back I will try to out smart him and win!<br />Reporter: Well, it is time to go! I'm glad you watched the 6:00 news with our guest Harry Potter.	2001-01-03
