US	47376206	R3MS509SYPP1Q7	1559707100	387337116	The Adventure of English: The Biography of a Language	Books	1	96	158	N	N	A slap in the faces of responsible scholars and students	A triumph of crass commercial misinformation and hyperbolic dilettantism over actual learning. Bragg and his handlers, in their rush to make a quick buck, seem barely to have skimmed a few shady amateur websites for their facts. Those readers with any education will find their eyebrows rising with incredulity to read that the Indo-European languages stem originally from India; that English is a rarity among languages for not being controlled by a French-style scholarly academy; that Shakespeare, apparently in need of even more credit, invented no fewer than 2,000 new English words; and that Bede apparently had a time machine, since his quotation of the then 300-year-old letter to Aetius is related as if Bede were the author. Beyond the unblinking confusion over basic facts, the story-telling style ham-handedly anthropomorphizes English itself, alternately \\"wanting all the space it could claim\\" or growing \\"confident enough to take on newcomers\\", as a \\"battle-hardened\\" hero with mysteriously unique qualities, smacking of manifest destiny, that could only be perceived by an author who has never read the history of any other language or heard of the concept of sampling bias. For example, English is characterized as having an almost superhumanly unique \\"capacity to absorb other\\" languages, in a breathless description requiring the support of no fewer than three sinister adjectives - \\"cunning\\", \\"subtle\\", and \\"ruthless\\" - just in one sentence. Telling, then, that the guileless five-star reviewers' praise emphasizes such qualities as \\"easy to read\\". The less undiscerning will balk at hunting out the residue of actual knowledge from among Bragg's galloping storytelling, unless as a parlor game, and will find far more profit with any of a large number of excellent, slightly less easy alternatives. And by the way, the English translations from Frisian omit entire clauses.	2005-03-10
US	47376206	R329U5BQKN05IL	0300088663	284860369	The Invention of Peace: Reflections on War and International Order	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A pocket guide to the history of political engineering	This is barely more than a pamphlet-sized survey of world history, from a Eurocentric perspective if only because it aims to trace the roots of modern power underlying the basic paradigms of government and control. Certainly, when it comes to the lenses through which the world views the instruments of authority, the world is now in the grips of Europe's dubious gifts. This book is not so much about political science, although it repeatedly gives Kant, Hegel and others their due credit, as about political engineering: how the ideas of before, during, and after the Enlightenment were applied, and continue to be tried out, by the world powers. He pays particular attention to the revolution in how European people thought about what government means, from the inexorable impressions made by the French Revolution and Napoleon, through the rise of Prussia and the German and Italian nations, to the collapses of world order into the first and second world wars and the Cold War.<br />Naturally any reasonable thinker could deplore the sweeping generalizations inherent in any condensation of world history and its ideological signposts into 113 ridiculously short pages. Then again, the distillation is potent and leaves a powerful impression, difficult to refute.<br />Beginning with the American and French Revolutions, a number of different ideas began to be experimented with in alternative to the traditional aristocratic grip on power, with warfare a limited, almost mere game. The defense of such traditionalists fell under the umbrella of the Conservatives. Some of the alternatives, under the umbrellas of Nationalist, despite being radical in their inception, slowly inverted into alignment with the Conservatives, ultimately leading to the Nazis, while the variety of Liberal forces took their darkest form in the Soviets. The branch of Liberal ideological heirs to the American revolution, however, formed the root of the educated professional class who have risen to cross national boundaries in their common, rational search for peace, and form the best hope of peace actually reigning among nations: \\"A genuine global transnational community with common values and a common language... Does not this at last provide a firm foundation on which the architects of peace can now at last build a new world order?\\" (pp. 108-09)<br />Modern, liberal democracy is no cure-all, however: in much of the world, \\"Capitalism, or the rule of the market, is effective only when practised by communities where there already exist stable civil societies held together by efficient bureaucracies and common moral values, conditions that the market itself is powerless to create. Democratic elections have often had the effect of destroying such social cohesion as already existed.\\" Echoing Fareed Zakaria, it's hard not to take a second look at this conjecture given today's events.<br />The greatest remaining enemies to peace in our age, after the Cold War, are identified as religious/dogmatic scholars and unemployment - providing a toxic mix of boredom and its worst exploitation - another telling diagnosis from before 9-11. \\"There is something about rational order that will always leave some people, especially the energetic youth, deeply and perhaps rightly dissatisfied. ...Militant nationalist movements or conspiratorial radical ones provide excellent outlets for boredom.\\" (pp. 112-13) Even allowing for the rightly dissatisfied, though that is accurate as far as it applies, is terribly generous as applied to the world in general.<br />Sir Howard is not wanting of a solution: \\"The estblishment of a global peaceful order thus depends on the creation of a world community sharing the characteristics that make possible domestic order, and this will require the widest possible diffusion of those characteristics by the societies that already possess them.\\" As for those characteristics, going beyond institutions and organizations to include cultural dispositions, \\"Their creation andoperation require at the very least the existence of a transnational elite that not only shares the same cultural norms but can render those norms acceptable within their own societies and can where necessary persuade their colleagues to agree to the modifications necessary to make them acceptable.\\" (p. 105) Peace and democratic freedoms cannot merely be imposed from outside; they must be made to evolve palatably from within.<br />In the end, Howard is pragmatic but optimistic: On one hand, \\"Peace, as we have seen, is not an order natural to mankind: it is artificial, intricate and highly volatile.\\" On the other hand, \\"whatever else may happen, 'a seed of enlightenment' will always survive.\\" And hopefully, after all, continue to grow.	2004-05-04
US	47376206	RP4MWKLWFSYBP	0446670111	573126810	Einstein's Dreams	Books	5	7	8	N	N	plumbing the nature of gravity and of humanity	When this first came out, my doctor lent me his copy, but I returned it after reading only part of it, though looking back, I can't imagine why. I recently bought it and read it in one sitting (at the airport) as my first recreational book after finishing school.<br />&quot;Einstein's Dreams&quot; is a novel in a loose sense of the word. It consists of a set of vignettes considering how everything that makes us human would be different if space and time followed different sets of rules, which are interesting variations on what relativity shows is theoretically possible.<br />The vignettes are tied together by interludes of the young patent clerk Einstein, who stands in for Lightman as the dreamer who imagines all of the different scenarios, as he is inspired to discover the true nature of space and time.<br />The whole exercise provides a unique way of stepping out of space and time, and thereby out of the fundamental rules we take for granted to shape our lives. It might be compared to Italo Calvino's Cosmicomics, not quite in sheer whimsy, but certainly in the astoundingly unexpected insights it draws from tinkering with the cosmos as a way of exploring love, anxiety, and tragic loss.	2004-03-03
US	47376206	R2VXROQHQ16131	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A tour as inexorable and rapid as passage into a black hole	The business of publishing and selling books is tough sometimes. If a book turns out to be popular, then other titles by that author should be popular too, right? Sure, if it's a novelist just pumping out one novel after another. But that quirky science section is different - with the better books overwhelmingly written by professional scientists, as a break from their day job, rather than by professional writers. After the vast, unexpectable success of &quot;Brief History of Time&quot;, a library of other Hawking titles were rushed to the shelves from whatever sources possible: recordings of his lectures at Cambridge, a technical debate with Roger Penrose, and books of other authors in some sort of &quot;Stephen Hawking Presents...&quot; format. It's not hard to picture a throng of editors meanwhile pacing outside Hawking's office imploring him impatiently to take time out from his actual work to come up with a proper sequel to the Brief History. Hawking himself pokes fun at this expectation, by asking who would want a &quot;Slightly Longer History of Time&quot;, before throwing his hands up - metaphorically - and asking us to bear with him for another proper popular treatment.<br />However, while Brief History deserved its immense response by building a fantastic elementary description of theoretical physics as a framework for the subsequent description of Hawking's fascinating work on black hole evaporation and entropy, the Universe in a Nutshell is too rushed for the passion and excitement Hawking had in describing his breakthrough. Instead he opts for a whirlwind tour through the usual suspects of current speculative attempts toward fundamental theory - including superstrings, supergravity, M-theory, P-branes - with only the briefest nods to his own work on black hole radiation, explaining inflation with imaginary time, and the problem of information loss in evaporating black holes. The treatment is so hurried, it's a wonder that anything meaningful can be conveyed about the different theories. On top of that, the pages almost drip with humorous asides that are sometimes witty on their own but are so crowded they just become predictable and silly. Add to that an astronomical number of expensive-looking and needlessly contrived graphics, and once again it's hard not to picture the crowd of anxious publishers wringing their hands over this &quot;major publishing event&quot;, as it's described in the jacket lapel.<br />All that aside, it's still Hawking, still both so obviously genius and commanding an expository style second only to Feynman's. Although they're given in breezy snippets, there is still a thoughtful popular treatment here of aspects of quantum theory, general relativity, cosmological inflation, the intersection of branes, the difficulties of time travel, and - what I find among the most intriguing ideas in physics - models of large extra dimensions, following the work of Lisa Randall, Nima Arkani-Hamed and others. Unfortunately he also gives an untoward endorsement of the anthropic principle, of exactly the type Lee Smolin has convincingly condemned.<br />Hawking also takes a break from physics in the penultimate chapter for an interesting consideration of the future of the human race, in light of apparently inevitable consequences of foreseeable changes. For instance, in discussing human germline genetic engineering, he claims his &quot;intention is not to defend human genetic engineering as a desirable development, but just to say it is likely to happen whether we want it or not&quot;, a more realistic assessment than, for example, Edward O. Wilson's. Hawking goes on in the very next paragraph, though, to say &quot;In a way, the human race needs to improve its mental and physical qualities if it is to deal with the increasingly complex world around it and meet new challenges such as space travel.&quot; It sounds like maybe he is defending human genetic engineering as a desirable development, after all, at least therapeutic rather than germline. The obvious motivation behind this enthusiasm that he leaves unspoken, is the quite real possibility that therapeutic genetic engineering holds the promise of finally curing conditions like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, from which he suffers - if research is not obstructed by the misguided reactionism to the unknown that often passes for ethics. In mentioning not just coping with this world but preparing for space travel, Hawking seems to want to bring his guest appearance on Star Trek - pictured in this book, with a twist - closer to reality. I imagine Hawking, like many of the rest of us, takes the dream of widespread spaceflight seriously.<br />This is a great book for your coffee table. Just don't expect a chapter to take as much time to finish as the coffee.	2004-01-03
US	47376206	R367A58QD4GKLH	0738204897	697514957	Supersymmetry: Unveiling The Ultimate Laws Of Nature	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Superdumbed Down	Physics can only properly be described with math, and can only be described deeply with math that only a tiny fraction of people can understand. So every writer of a book on physics for a popular audience faces the question of how to describe physics in everyday language that will nonetheless convey much of the essential meaning. On the other hand, the core demographic for a popular book on theoretical physics shouldn't be confused with the average individual. Gordon Kane, while a formidable theorist, unfortunately misjudged where to aim his sights with &quot;Supersymmetry&quot;, a book attempting to describe the theory of extending the Standard Model a little closer to the ultimate theory of everything by devising a symmetry between bosons and fermions. There's a limit to how much you can talk about a theory without actually describing the theory.<br />For example, consider this exercise in friendly vaguary: &quot;One can estimate the maximum possible value of the cosmological constant from the observed expansion rate of the universe. We can also estimate naively what size the cosmological constant should be if we made the simplest guess. The problem is that the maximum size the cosmological constant could have, and still be consistent with what we observe, is many powers of 10 smaller than the naive estimate.&quot; I can barely even decipher this ambiguous hand-waving as an indication of the cosmological constant problem; I find it hard to believe that anyone not already familiar with this problem would gain any understanding from this sort of description. They'd do much better to read, for example, Joao Magueijo's beautiful exposition.<br />Kane does clear up enough to carry across some of his keen insights, including on the daunting task of finding experimental evidence of supersymmetry and on what the shape of fundamental theory implies for different versions of the anthropic principle. He also provides some of the reasons why supersymmetry actually makes predictions that fail in ways the Standard Model already succeeds at least somewhat, casting doubt on the inevitability that supersymmetry will prove to be a successful description of physical law. Actually the book could gain from further splashes of cold water; many times Kane ends up implying that supersymmetry's first impressions are clearly inconsistent with known theory and new versions of the theory were devised that always make predictions just out of reach of our collider technology. Somehow though, Kane repeatedly concludes with assured confidence that this out-of-reach version of the theory will be vindicated. As with strings, the exuberance of the theorist leaves a vague disquiet, if you can sense it, at the prolonged enthusiasm for intricate mathematical elegance in the absence of experimental verification of theoretical predictions - made before the fact, not as postdictions. In the meantime, the wealth of newly observed physical phenomena, such as dark energy, that were wholly unanticipated in decades of arcane theoretical work, beg for that disquiet to receive a greater acknowledgement than can be found here.	2004-01-03
US	47376206	R1CYUSIUJVAPGX	0452284988	848180184	A Long Short War: The Postponed Liberation of Iraq	Books	5	55	62	N	N	compassion and insight in place of thoughtless rhetoric	Christopher Hitchens lays out the case for the liberation of Iraq as a moral imperative, on behalf of its own citizens as much as for the rest of the world, who were similarly terrorized by Saddam Hussein.<br />Most of the book takes the form of a series of articles penned by Mr. Hitchens throughout the run-up to the invasion through to its immediate aftermath. Particularly interesting are Hitchens's accounts of visiting Iraq both before and after the invasion, as much as a friend to its people as an investigative reporter.<br />On every side he levels his frank and insightful assessment of the actors involved, which is not at all flattering in cases such as Jacques Chirac, Dominique de Villepin, Colin Powell, and Dubya himself - Hitchens is no cheerleader for the White House. But among Hitchens's charms is that he is not one of the great mass of partisan critics with a ready slander for anyone in his sights. Paul Wolfowitz and Gerhard Schroeder, each in his own way, both emerge from Hitchens's close inspection as fairly heroic figures.<br />On the other hand, the most scathing indictments are reserved for those knee-jerk protesters and critics who equated the overthrow of our generation's Stalin with a war of aggression. Hitchens might be applauded for how reserved he reviews the telling account of the &quot;human shields&quot; who had a sudden change of heart after actually experiencing for just a few days the conditions in Iraq that its people have endured for decades.<br />And there is Hitchens's great lament, as implied in the title: what a terrible decision it was not to carry out this completion of the Iraqi war in 1991, when instead we inexplicably quit an ideal opportunity to end the despotism. That delay led quickly to the abandonment and massive defeat of the internal Iraqi dissenters who had looked to us for support, reminiscent of our similar let-down of the anti-Castro Cubans thirty years earlier; and it led to the onset of far worse poverty and oppression of the entire Iraqi populace over the past twelve years than they had experienced under the pre-Kuwait Saddam. The outlandish costs now being sought for reconstruction are also due in large part to the steady twelve year collapse of the Iraqi economy and infrastructure.<br />With controversy continuing on how finally to create an Iraq that is free and prosperous, it is invaluable to understand the mistakes made in the past. Amid so much of the same few simple-minded lines of rhetoric dominating public discourse, the piercing observations and original insights of Christopher Hitchens, wrapped in eloquent and eminently readable use of language, are a most welcome window on that understanding.	2003-09-11
US	47376206	R1H6UJ4IRS2LFT	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	5	8	N	N	I bet this guy would rule at Civilization II	I found Guns, Germs &amp; Steel full of profound insight into human prehistory and history. Diamond's overriding thesis is that accidents of geography are among the chief root causes in why civilizations in different parts of the world achieved varying levels in different factors important for societal survival and competitiveness - factors such as guns, germs and steel. This gets much more involved and convincing than I had thought of on first impression. For instance, one of the first factors enabling greater population growth was the domestication of cereals, which depended on having access to wild cereal plants predisposed for successful domestication and nutritive value. That access in turn depended largely on how great a contiguous area of similar climate was available. In that regard, Eurasia had a vast advantage over sub-Saharan Africa and the Americas. The domestication of cereals is thought to have taken place independently in the Fertile Crescent, with wheat and barley, and in China, with millet on the Yellow River and rice on the Yangtze River. Meanwhile, the Americas were so lacking in a decent cereal that the natives around southern Mexico domesticated corn, which had to change a great deal more than its wild ancestor, and which even then remains nutritively inferior to wheat, with its significant protein content. Meanwhile New Guinea is thought to have developed agriculture on its own as well, and domesticated sugarcane, but simply had no option of a cereal or good plant protein source to cultivate.<br />On it goes, into domesticable animals, developing epidemic germs that evolved from germs affecting the those domesticated animals, and simply having the great contiguous stage of Eurasia in which inventions and ideas could disseminate from a vast pool of experience.<br />Diamond emphasizes the falsehood of the common rationale of racism, that historical differences in hallmarks of civilization are due to differences in inate ability between differentethnic groups. Instead, any redistribution of our ancestors ten thousand years ago among the different parts of the Earth would likely have led to the inhabitants of the same areas developing similarly more sophisticated civilizations and similar competitive advantages, based on geography, rather than on the remarkably little genetic diversity there is between different human populations.<br />He also emphasizes the historical universality, if tragedy, of tilted competitive readiness between interacting societies leading to epidemic, subjugation, and sometimes annihilation of the less competitive group. Far from the sort of view expressed by George Carlin's tirade against blue-eyed invaders, ethnic displacement is not a sin unique to Europeans, but also took place in the invasion of the Chatham Islands by the Maori of New Zealand, by repeated invasions of southeast Asia and the Pacific islands by natives of southern China, of southern China by northern China, of the Congo and Kalahari areas of Africa by Bantu Africans originating from what is now eastern Nigeria and Cameroon, and even of the ancient Middle East by Ethiopians, in the origin of the Semites - both Jews and Arabs included. Tragic aspects of human history are easier to remedy when their reality is better understood.<br />Diamond seems ambivalent on the &quot;progress&quot; of civilization - as he insists on putting in quotation marks. He sets forth convincingly how large-scale societal structure is an absolutely inevitable consequence of high population density, and frequently characterizes it as the rise of a parasite class of leaders, bureaucrats, and priests who leach off the productive capacity of the food producers and make large-scale war possible. On the other hand, he characterizes - again, convincingly - stone age cultures, including the few remaining today and the ones that included all of humanity in prehistory, as being dominated by violence between and within the tribe, claiming that the twomost prevalent causes of death in pre-civilized cultures are tribal warfare and homicide. With that perspective, he indicates organized society's greatest strength as its ability to deter war and violence through military strength and effective law enforcement and administration of justice.<br />Diamond's quest is to make history a true historical science, on par with geology and astronomy. Unfortunately, he detracts from his proclamation of this agenda in the last chapter by launching an ill-informed denigration of the physical sciences as uninterested in purpose and function or in root causes, which was enough to break the appearance of omniscience created by his earlier mastery of so many disparate fields - he is apparently an active researcher in both physiology and evolutionary biology - and indicate that there are after all some scholarly fields about which he is ignorant. He also admits that his emphasis on geography as the prime driver of human civilizations has no power to explain some historical quirks, such as the historical voluntary abandonment by entire societies of fantastic competitive advantages, including the abandonment of pottery by the Polynesians, of guns by the Japanese, and of ocean-circumnavigating fleets by the Chinese. But despite these shortcomings, this book could represent another example of Edward O. Wilson's Consilience in making dramatic new progress in a field by synthesizing learning from disparate fields together. I tend to see the hand of Wilson everywhere, but the connection is too appropriate not to point out. For that is the program that Diamond follows, drawing on advances in archaeology, linguistics, and especially genetics, subjected to new applications of analysis and logic, in synthesizing a study of history based on analytical patterns of causation. This study provides wonderful dividends of insight into the grand sweep of human affairs.<br />Finally of course, I have to pose the question: if the ultimate success or failure of any human society throughout history is consistently decided on the geographical resources available to it, more than any other factor: what does that have to say about the first-ever opportunity of our own civilization to colonize other worlds away from Earth?	2003-09-04
US	47376206	R2MOL1UICYUL68	037542167X	577219666	Reunion: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love Lost	The Reunion might be thought of as an elaboration of the climactic chapter of Good Benito, in which the irrationality of human existence is manifested as a woman obsessed with artistic expression, and with whom the hero is in turn obsessed, with tragic results.<br />The choice of narrating most of the book as nostalgic revery from decades into the future risks making the hero's loss pathetic. Yet it also adds the half-expectation of a true reunion that never arrives, besides also allowing the contrast of the foolhardy passion of a youthful Charles, as a budding poet as helplessly compelled to pursue Juliana as she is compelled to dance, with the staid boredom of the middle-aged Charles, the tenured literature professor with anything but passion for his perfectly stable and \\"not unattractive\\" romantic partner.<br />His unenviable end state is reflected in a dreadful former classmate, who has built a tremendously successful shoe business, but only by transforming himself from fully human to a mere shoe salesman. The unflattering suggestion is that Charles has strayed so far from the inspiration that led him into his career, his selling of poetry and literature classes has become nothing more than an equivalent of selling shoes. Something inside him recoiled from the harsh results of living life with the passion of poetry, but that withdrawal turned his capacity for feeling into a husk.<br />Indeed, the complement to Good Benito might be extended. Whereas that earlier book explored the failures of life as a physics professor, Lightman's earlier profession, Reunion explores the failures of life as a literature professor, Lightman's current position, including a scathing portrayal of petty careerism involving Charles's antiheroic literary mentor and another protege. Perhaps, like Stephen King, Lightman feels driven to cast his fears into fables as a means of exorcising them.<br />Like all Lightman, the style is somehow both subtle and operatic. He poses this specter: that which makes us human has little if anything to do with what makes life easier or more socially acceptable. Yet the hero is as apparently helpless to choosing a course among fates here as in The Diagnosis.<br />What is left is the inevitability of loss. And Charles's loss, though stale with the passage of thirty years, is as poignant and palpable as his brief relationship with Juliana was torrentially glorious. There is the ring of truth in this exploration of yearning, joy, and regret.	2003-08-16
US	47376206	RD3FU8U6Q2BYY	0821351621	424954158	A Case for Aid: Building a Consensus for Development Assistance	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well-Informed and Hopeful View of International Development	This book by the World Bank indicates how dramatic and lasting the progress against global poverty has been in the past 50 years. It also shows how dramatically the Bank's own understanding has risen, even in the past decade, of how to make its efforts more effective in relieving poverty and achieving other development goals. These two themes form the basis for the World Bank's visionary thesis: that eradicating much of the poverty, ill health, and illiteracy around the world is within reach.<br /> The World Bank is full of optimism. Then again, it shows good reason for this outlook. It outlines the substantial advances that have been made over the past few decades in poverty reduction and advances in health and education in the developing world, identifying the World Bank's role in these advances, as one component of a complex, cooperative effort. For instance, the Bank indicates that:<BR>* Over the past 40 years, life expectancy at birth in developing countries has increased by 20 years - about as much as was achieved in all of human history prior to the middle of the 20th century.<BR>* Over the past 30 years, illiteracy in the developing world has been cut nearly in half, from 47 percent to 25 percent in adults.<BR>* Over the past 20 years, the absolute number of people living on less than $1 a day, after rising steadily for the last 200 years, has for the first time begun to fall, even as the world's population has grown by 1.6 billion people. <br />The book's main message is that foreign development aid is reaching a level of sophistication that translates into dramatic improvements in the human condition like never before. This aid is lifting people out of poverty, improving their health and education, and contributing to the stability and security of the entire world. As the book says, \\"Aid is not simply a transfer payment for the consumption of poor people, but an investment in improved policies and institutions. The best aid finances the costs of change, rather than the costs of not changing.\\"<br />        The Bank's vision is grand and inspiring. This is far more than a financial treatise; it is instead a bold blueprint for raising the human condition throughout the globe. With such reach, it touches on much of the agenda for foreign affairs, and makes for compelling reading for anyone concerned with international relations. As the Bank aspires, \\"we must make globalization stand for common humanity, not for commercial brands or competitive advantage.\\"	2003-06-12
US	47376206	R2DCVLCHV9H37G	0738205257	611170096	Faster Than the Speed of Light: The Story of a Scientific Speculation	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Wit, verve, mischief, and fascinating physics	How did the universe begin? How did it become like it is today? ...Joao Magueijo offers answers to these and many other pressing questions on the frontiers of knowledge in his delightful book, \\"Faster Than the Speed of Light.\\"<br />I read Joao Magueijo's \\"Faster than the Speed of Light\\" after reading his and Andreas Albrecht's seminal paper at astro-ph/9811018. Having understood a little of the theory, it was fascinating to backtrack and read the story essentially of how that paper came about. The resulting book is tremendously engaging, not only as the exposition of the origin of an exciting new physics theory, but also as intimate autobiography; Magueijo is at least as interested in the intimate details of the human story as anything else. His frank honesty and talent for insight and language place this book beyond the pale of most science popularizations, onto a higher level of human literature with universal appeal. Indeed, this book may be the best portrayal of science as a fundamentally human endeavor since Alan Lightman's \\"Good Benito\\".<br />For instance, Magueijo's frequent digressions may describe anything from being inspired while hung over or [urinating] behind a bar in India, staying up all night chasing foxes around London, getting distracted for hours on end by psychiatry textbooks, skirting paranoia at a physics convention in Aspen, confronting a colleague for scoping out his girlfriend, or finding the missing key to theories of the Universe's origin in the vast wilderness of Australia.<br />Both in scope and in tone, one can't help draw the occasional comparison between Magueijo and Richard Feynman. And indeed, Magueijo laments that Feynman's character did not exert as wide an influence as his physics. Magueijo may be the obvious successor in spirit to Feynman's position of being as delightfully zealous in deconstructing norms of thought and society as in advancing physics theory.<br />Magueijo directs the razor wit of his wide-ranging, scandalouslyunrestrained diatribes against editors, imperialists, capitalists, scientists past their prime, scientists locked into dogma, and most of all, bureaucrats. He loves to crucify bureaucrats at every opportune moment, his favorite target being his bosses at Imperial College, London. Magueijo's scathing wit is as relevant as it is clever. This book should be the first item of required reading for anyone who works as an academic administrator - or as a manager or organizational decision maker of any kind, for that matter. The excruciation ranges from amusing to uproariously funny; I got odd looks from across rooms several times after this book drove me to fits of laughter. When's the last time a book on physics theory had that effect?<br />A native of Portugal, his use of English is a linguistic joy by itself. Like a few other native Romance language speakers writing in English, he emphasizes just enough Latin-based etymological cousins and usages to add a peculiar Mediterranean grace to his writing. Even when he's being vulgar, which is often, it is with wonderfully amusing wit.<br />The book is equally valuable as a pure discussion of physics. Magueijo begins his physics discussion with a clarifying introduction to both theories of relativity and the process Einstein actually went through in concocting them. He proceeds from there to describe why relativity, despite its tremendous success, conflicts with quantum theory in some fundamental assumptions, particularly in the early Universe. Here, too, he gives a valuable lesson on why the existing theory of inflation is terribly unsatisfactory in providing an effective explanation of the very early universe. Instead, it is afflicted by a set of intractably unlikely initial conditions: the horizon problem, the flatness problem, and the lambda problem.<br />After offering a glimpse of mainstream efforts to resolve these problems, Magueijo introduces the theory he and a few collaborators developed: what if the speed of lightwere not truly a constant? It turns out that the cosmological problems may find a satisfactory solution if the speed of light were far faster in the early universe than today. Exactly how this could be so, and how the most cherished foundations of physics might remain consistent after losing the precious constancy of lightspeed, is naturally a complicated matter, but one the book lays out in fairly convincing fashion. Although this is just the sort of popular book that will inevitably become fodder for half-witted armchair theorist cranks, that does not detract from the rigorous work Magueijo and his colleagues have accomplished in fashioning a variable speed of light as a consistent theory. As for the controversial nature of the theory, Magueijo argues the perhaps obvious case that mainstream efforts to advance fundamental theory, particularly in string theory and its relatives, have gone for so long with so little hope of ending their spooky divorce from experimental verification, that the time is more than ripe to try some fresh alternatives.<br />I cannot recommend this book strongly enough. It is a true gem, no less so for general readers looking only to catch a glimpse of what some physicists are up to these days. Despite the unconventional nature of the theories, this is still one of the best books about physics for non-physicists to come down in years - not just for its lucid introduction to Einstein's discoveries, but because it is the most warmly and honestly human of such efforts, and far transcends its nominal purpose to popularize a new branch of physics. If nothing else, Magueijo's uproarious lampoon of string theory near the end of the book is alone worth the purchase price.	2003-04-14
US	47376206	R1EXWFAWGEL1WO	0897334698	420026784	Kings and Queens of Early Britain	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A surgically precise separation of evidence from legend	An ideal and captivating quick history of Britain from Julius Caeser's first expedition in 55 B.C. until Athelstan's consolidation of power in 937. This cutoff point seems to be chosen because that is when historical records become more complete, while Ashe prefers to work in the realm where historical records are sketchy or oblique, and must be pieced together with supporting clues from archaeology and legend to fill in a necessarily incomplete picture. Ashe draws heavily from Geoffrey of Monmouth, Nennius, Gildas, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicles, Bede, and the more dependable Roman records, though always explicitly critical of his sources and lucid in his analysis of how we can draw the kernel of truth out of embellishments or legends. In some cases, such as the pre-Roman British kings listed by Monmouth, the legends are so lacking in support as to be historically hopeless. But where several perspectives exist, even corrupted accounts like Monmouth can be compared with other records to tease out dividends of clues into the reality. The critical view of the evidence and frank analysis leave a rich and fascinating account of almost a thousand years of Picts, Celts, Romans, Anglo-Saxons, and Danes vying for control of the British Isles. A case in point is King Arthur, so buried in legend while so scarce from reliable historical records that uncovering the true history appears impossible, until Ashe navigates confidently through fact and fiction to lay out the most likely possibilities behind the legend. Ashe describes the roles of diplomacy, war, and religion in the constantly shifting tides of political power, gives brief biographical sketches of countless key players, and demonstrates the difference made by remarkable leaders such as Constantine, Maximus, Maelgwn of Gwynedd, Caewlin of Wessex, Saint Aidan, Aldfrith of Northumbria, Kenneth MacAlpine, and of course Alfred the Great. He gives telling insights into the rise of Christianity in the isles despite the resistance in turn of the Romans, Celts, Anglo-Saxons, and Danes. He also emphasises the point that Britain alone of any region in the Empire was granted independence from Rome before the barbarians arrived, which uniquely poised it to maintain a heightened cultural continuity, to the benefit of succeeding eras. I'd been looking for a good, concise history of pre-Alfred Britain, and this turned out to be just right. A fair, even treatment with a brisk, highly readable style.	2003-01-04
US	47376206	R2ZTIIMVR58HTY	0812576489	341433390	Mars Crossing	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The finest in Mars exploration novels	Even at 434 pages, I read \\"Mars Crossing\\" in two sittings over a 12-hour period. It is an amazingly strong debut novel from NASA engineer Landis, who deftly balances compelling characters with a thoroughly realistic and scientifically intriguing early trip to Mars. We start out with the third human crew ever to reach the surface of Mars, a mission more palpably dangerous than in many comparable novels, not least because the first two missions had no survivors. The novel opens with a successful landing on Mars, only to learn that a Herculean challenge stands between the astronauts and a functioning ride home. Landis's Mars is a truly alien environment that forces its visitors to confront their inner selves, showing their best or worst sides in the process. The characters are realistic, compelling, conflicted, and human. Each one is given fairly equal \\"screen time\\" of first-person perspective, with an exception for one red-shirt. Each character is also explored in brief vignettes from their earlier lives interchanged with the current story. The constant back-and-forth flashbacks would be an awkward device in many writers' hands, but Landis uses it to great advantage in painting his characters, making it seem just as natural as anyone reflecting on poignant memories at odd moments. Fans of hard science fiction will be thrilled at Landis's imaginative constructs, although his bias as an engineer rather than a scientist seems apparent - in the interests of spoiler-avoidance, you'll just have to see what I mean. The plot includes a decent string of clues and surprises ending in a satisfying plot twist. Best of all, \\"Crossing\\" demands realistic, and grave, consequences for the choices and missteps of its characters, that are unpredictable but become crystal clear in hindsight - sort of like real life. In this way, it joins higher fiction in reflecting compelling truths rather than just telling a story. To compare with other Mars Pioneering novels, \\"Crossing\\" is on par withZubrin's \\"First Landing,\\" superior to Benford's \\"Martian Race,\\" and miles ahead of Robinson's dismal \\"Red Mars.\\" \\"Crossing\\" conveys the unforgiving harshness and emotional rigors of the alien world, as well as the honorable heroism of those who are committed to challenge it.	2002-11-10
US	47376206	R2Z3H92EEDMOJZ	1570089957	914730785	Rebekah (Women of Genesis)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Astonishing retelling of the biblical story of Rebekah	\\"Rebekah\\" tells the intimate life's story of the Old Testament woman of the same name: wife of Isaac, mother of Jacob and Esau. The woman who is so widely familiar to anyone who's ever attended Sunday school is also so little known. Orson Scott Card, acting as historian and believer as well as novelist, uses a few chapters from the book of Genesis as the jumping-off point in a quest to imagine the story of Rebekah's life. What did she go through that would eventually lead a real, flesh-and-blood woman to have the faith she had, but also to commit her famous deception of her prophet-husband by jockeying her favorite son into the inheritance in place of Esau, the rightful heir?<br />After \\"Sarah,\\" the first in series-happy OS Card's \\"Women of Genesis\\" series, I had been a little disappointed. Card has long been trying to overcome his sci-fi fame to direct some attention to other genres like his religious-themed novels. He often does this by blurring the lines between the two, adding religious miracle to fantasy and science fiction on the spectrum of speculative fiction. However, even with such as \\"Stone Tables\\", he had succeeded brilliantly in showing he could drive a historical religious novel with no traditional sci-fi or fantasy theme with the same gripping character-driven plotting that has made his sci-fi novels so well-loved. Unfortunately, \\"Sarah\\" seemed like something of a misstep, where the good and happy characters were brightly delineated from the evil and miserable ones, at the expense of a compelling story. But be warned, anyone who has so far let the first episode's flaws prevent them from picking up Round Two. In \\"Rebekah,\\" Card has regained his balance and is in top form again. This time, the bad guys behave pretty well and the good guys get pretty bad, everyone struggles, and any moral clarity has to be well-earned if it can be come by at all. Although the difference could be blamed on the source material, since the novels follow a mandate of at leastloose consistency with the relevant passages from the biblical Genesis, there is still a clear distinction in choices made by the author. After all, \\"Sarah\\" avoided the most difficult, and juiciest, story opportunity by ending right before Abraham's attempt to sacrifice Isaac, while Rebekah's toughest moment in the afore-mentioned \\"switcheroo\\" is made to seem just a natural continuation of a lifetime of moral dilemma.<br />The issue of both biblical consistency and relative lack thereof is actually fascinating. Card takes some pretty well-justified creative liberties to fill in the quite substantial gaps the scriptures leave in the life-story of Rebekah, Isaac, and their various family, that form a rich source of surprising complexity in the family and character dynamics. Occasionally this comes in the form of fun feminist and otherwise irreverent retorts to the male-dominated Bible, but more often it takes shape as a much more convoluted background to explain the biblically depicted idiosyncrasies in this holy family. And I really mean convoluted; Card can rival \\"Memento\\" for the cleverness with which he sets up personal relationships and chains of consequences that obliquely dovetail in ways you suddenly realize were inevitable. Also clever is the consistency with which he addresses the prevalent theme of faith in a miraculous God from the point of view of the main characters. Anyone, regardless of personal beliefs, could read and enjoy the novel and accept that the characters' perception of divine action makes just as much sense as any character seeing the world through the lens of his own preconceptions. At the same time, Card paints a fair depiction of earnest believers and their honest morality and faith, that forms a more compelling and understandable explanation of Judeo-Christian faith than most literature explicitly intended for that purpose. Nevertheless, though Rebekah's God comforts, he does so sparingly. In \\"Rebekah\\" as often in life, there are no easy answers, no enemies without endearing qualities and family connections, and no loved ones without mutually inconsistent priorities and goals that are apparently insurmountable more often than not. For being based on a story so familiar, this novel is far above most from-scratch novels in suspending the reader's wonder in how things will turn out next.	2002-10-30
US	47376206	R2DIULE8UC4QKJ	0765341174	632116943	Sarah (Women of Genesis, Book 1)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Not your dad's Bible	\\"Sarah\\" sets out to take the light sketch of Abraham's wife in the Bible and extend it into a full novel telling much of her life's story from her point of view. If \\"Sarah\\" is any clue, OS Card set out with the \\"Women of Genesis\\" series to loft a feminist retake on the biblical story of the patriarchs: What were the wives of these great prophets up to? Why do they, despite sparing reference in the Bible, get a lot more attention than almost any other women in the male-dominated scriptures? Could it be because they were as intelligent, brave, righteous, and powerful in their service to the \\"God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,\\" just as much as their famous, credit-hogging husbands? Sarah turns out to qualify, not just as a co-equal with the revered Abraham, but his indispensable support without whom he could not have lived up to greatness. In keeping with this 20th-century revision of 4,000-year-old nomadic culture, Sarah is also outspoken and liberated, with Abraham not batting an eye, as both of them talk like modern Americans. Those easily offended at irreverent takes on revered religious figures will not appreciate Abraham teasing the aging Sarah about her saggy breasts, though those offended by religious stuffiness will have a ball with the refreshingly human portrayals. Nor will purists of the historical novel appreciate the dialog, though the author has made a genuine effort to depict an accurate milieu of nomadic life. Actually, since depicting ancient culture really accurately is ultimately an intractable challenge, substituting the audience's culture into the unknowns makes as much sense for the story as anything. Purists of whatever flavor of orthodox Biblical interpretation are also bound to get riled, not least by the substitution of less miraculous replacements for the brimstone from heaven and the punishment by transformation into a pillar of salt. Card also sneaks in a few Mormon conceits hinting at the Book of Enoch, and the Pharaoh's sacred rituals asan apostate form of the real temple ceremonies.<br />Although \\"Sarah\\" functions admirably as a distant prequel to Card's fantastic \\"Stone Tables\\" (the story of Moses), I started losing patience with Sarah and Abraham at the same time Pharaoh was losing patience with them in the story. Although it starts out in characteristic Card form with appealing character development as Sarah learns of Abraham and they launch off on their adventure together, my credibility was stretched by the summary execution with which their romance together was dispensed. As the story continues, it started to dawn on me that Sarah and Abraham are both a little too confident in their righteousness for much doubt to remain as to where the story is going. After all, we have read this story before; the devil has got to be in the details; but the details are filled only with God. This ideal faith leaves little to be resolved.<br />Although Hagar is introduced as interestingly tragic, and her talent for frank analogies to bedchambers endears her, the following setup explaining the biblical story of Abraham fathering a child with her is too pat, and the pain it inflicts on Sarah too tidy. Worse, Hagar's character is disingenuously contorted to fit the artificial demands of the new plot, going from sympathetic up until the impregnation to repulsive, redemptionless witch afterward. This uncomfortable pattern is repeated with Sarah's sister, who marries Lot and is also tagged with a \\"rejected-by-God\\" sign on her back that apparently requires the story to turn her into a shrill, putrid scab of a human being to get us to understand that it was really for the best for God to wipe her out. I can understand giving more background to show a God who reserved punishment for more than just a minor infraction like looking back homeward after he said not to, but a dumpster-full of justification was served where a single pie would have done nicely. The same goes for the general population of Sodom and Gomorrah, whose depiction was ripped out of the Clockwork Orange complemented by a genuinely hostile commentary on homosexuality, coming from a writer with a stable-full of sympathetic gay characters in earlier novels. That combined with the heavily slanted depiction of the Isaac Versus Ishmael story as backdrop for the next four thousand years and counting of Jew Versus Arab conflict, will potentially put off a significant slice of potential readers who do not share with the author his professed admiration for the Fox News Channel worldview.<br />Despite its flaws, \\"Sarah\\" remains at least serviceable and often compelling, as an exercise in historical and religious revisionism. The dependable Card trademarks of compelling character-driven storytelling and insightful moral and psychological exploration are still here to merit a four-star rating. But don't go away - the series takes a huge leap forward in Part Deux with \\"Rebekah.\\" I've noticed the Amazon sales rank is lower for \\"Rebekah\\" than for \\"Sarah,\\" suggesting there are lots of you out there doing what I almost did and foregoing the second installment due to less-than-expected delicious Card storytelling in the first. But if you at all enjoyed this one, the best is yet to come.	2002-10-30
US	47376206	R10931PSIQ5VYA	0679772677	303723286	A Civil Action	Books	4	4	4	N	N	true story of a tort lawyer as an unlikely hero	I read this because it was recommended by my civil procedure professor as an accurate and compelling demonstration of the role of procedure in civil litigation. While that may not sound like a blast, this account is more compelling than most fictional court dramas. It's easy to forget while reading \\"A Civil Action\\" that it's a true story seen from the perspective of a professional writer hanging around and observing the lawyers involved. What he observes is a cocky underdog lawyer, Jan Schlictmann, who starts his own firm and goes up against two of the most prestigious firms in Boston on behalf of a group of Woburn leukemia victims. Their claim is that the leukemia was caused by pollution in Woburn's water supply by two plants that happen to have been acquired by two very large, deep-pocketed corporations. The only trouble is, there's little if any proof that the pollution could have caused the leukemia.<br />The coverage is very balanced - if anything, it could stand trimming to excise some coverage that becomes ponderous. The author gives the sense of sympathizing with Schlictmann and his unfortunate clients, but does not demonize the opposing counsel, or condemn as unfeeling the court's inability to perceive enough evidence to find the defendant corporations liable. If anyone comes off as a scumbag, it is only one obscure side character, the slacker lawyer who originally sloughed off the Woburn clients to Schlictmann and eventually sues the almost bankrupt Schlictmann for a six-digit referral fee.<br />Along the way, the author gives a very detailed account of a human tragedy and the processes that might be able to stem others like it in the future, if not make a sorry attempt to compensate past wrongs. Even more, it is the story of Jan Schlictmann as hero, who goes from flashy underdog to sacrificing all his financial and emotional resources to advocate on behalf of marginalized victims. In his effort to pursue noble ends regardless of the lack of evidence, he comes off a little like Don Quixote. We are reassured at the end, when some form of justice comes from the E.P.A. using the documentation generated by Schlictmann for the trial. Although a massive effort is undertaken to clean up the pollution, there is little comfort for Schlictmann, who has nothing to show for a huge chunk of his life dedicated to the case except personal bankruptcy and emotional scars. What he has gained out of it though, is some kind of redemption: the case he first accepted with visions of dollar signs ends up catalyzing the environmental cleanup, and producing a transformed Schlictmann who has sacrificed everything out of compassion for the afflicted. This overall thesis, made powerful by slowly gaining strength through ongoing details rather than any explicit indication, makes \\"A Civil Action\\" a powerful and compelling story.	2002-10-21
US	47376206	R2J0TR0TDN0GDG	0385484992	880135677	Visions: How Science Will Revolutionize the 21st Century	Books	4	7	7	N	N	a whirlwind tour of tomorrow's breathtaking technologies	In \\"Visions,\\" theoretical physicist Kaku describes the boundless new technologies that will become available in the next hundred years and beyond, in three general areas: computers and information technology, biotechnology, and fundamental physics. The ideas presented are based on extensive consultation with experts in a variety of fields, and are thrilling prospects that are as well grounded in current authority as might be expected in the dicey business of predicting the future flow of technological progress.<br />The predictions on information technology detail ever more free-flowing information outlets and ubiquitous computerized devices. The predictions of biotechnology are perhaps the most exciting, offering a wide look at how much more advanced medicine will soon become in diagnosing and preventing cancers and other critical diseases years earlier than is possible now. Kaku describes how this will come about from the increasing understanding of the human genome and the application of electronic and information technology to biotechnology. Curiously, the third section, on fundamental physics, which actually is Kaku's area of expertise, seems the least imaginative and the most rushed. It's hard to give anything more than a cursory glance in going from coverage of current-day projects to considering warp drives, alien intelligences, and alternate universes in under 100 pages. This is made worse when Kaku stops firmly in the present to criticize nuclear power plants and the International Space Station.<br />Overall, it's an authoritatively speculative look at these three areas of technological promise, although the format is a little strained. If you are unfamiliar with all of these areas and want a brief introduction to each, this is an ideal place to look. Despite Kaku's misgivings about a few technological choices, he is an effective evangelist for the faith in human understanding.	2002-10-21
US	47376206	R1GC9SBHLZGEZE	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	3	16	26	N	N	long on elements, short on style	I read Strunk and White as part of the recommended summer reading list before starting law school, and I've since been subjected to a few law professors leading the class through the ritual worship of bowing down before it. It seems to me though a cliff's notes to basic English that you were supposed to learn in high school, combined with a few quirky recommendations: such as never to end a word with \\"s',\\" so you'd write \\"I kicked the Chalmers's dog\\" instead of \\"I kicked the Chalmers' dog;\\" and never to use the word \\"thrust\\" at all any more, for any purpose, because it inevitably conjures sexual imagery in the reader's mind. Other than that, it contains a decent guide to the all-important art of writing succinctly, one I've failed to master as you can tell by now, such as using short sentences and paragraphs and that flow together naturally. Somehow though, even at a slim and extremely well-crafted hundred-odd pages, it manages to be dull. Somewhere out there is the ideal writing manual, but I haven't yet found it. This will have to do in the meantime.	2002-10-12
US	47376206	R3LZVLH7TWAB4K	1896522904	923940016	On to Mars: Colonizing a New World (Apogee Books Space Series)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Daring and wide-ranging look at exploring and settling Mars	Why is Mars the ideal goal for the space program? How will we get there, and how will we sustain ourselves once we make it? How can Mars even become a new, second home for humanity? This collection of essays offers to answer such questions as these, with dozens of contributions from a host of writers - of which I am one, so you know my bias. Although the best of them are NASA scientists, the only qualification in common among them all is enthusiasm. Sample article titles include, \\"Space Tourism After Dennis Tito,\\" \\"The Long Range Mars Rover,\\" and \\"Interstellar Panspermia Reconsidered: Implications for the Search for Life on Mars.\\" The essays were selected from presentations given at three years' worth of meetings of the Mars Society. Taken together, the scope of this work provides worthwhile evidence of the drive and confidence in a bold human future in space, worthy to follow up on the glory days of Apollo, and offers a thought-provoking tour of the future, well-suited to invite further debate and discussion.	2002-10-12
US	47376206	R2NBR0M7NQN3TY	0679436146	53426482	Good Benito	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Benito is a superpartner to Einstein's Dreams	Good Benito seems to have been somehow overlooked amid the attention to other Alan Lightman greats like Einstein's Dreams and The Diagnosis. That's unfortunate, since Benito shares equally with those two books in its ability to linger and continue growing larger in your mind long after reading it. This one has the curious twist of centering on an alter ego of the author, as with Orson Scott Card's \\"Lost Boys,\\" with parallels eerily close enough to make you wonder how much or how little the author is taking liberties with biographical experiences. To see for yourself, compare fictional Bennett Long's breakthrough in globular cluster dynamics in Benito, with real-life Alan Lightman's breakthrough in globular cluster dynamics in the Review of Modern Physics (Volume 50, page 437, published 1978).<br />As such, the novel stands as much a creative quasi-autobiography as an apological defense for leaving a profession in physics. For Bennett strives constantly for a rational universe capable of becoming well-understood. But while his study of physics delightfully rewards this instinct, the vicissitudes of human life and the mysteries of human behavior are far more ambiguous and troubling. This plays out almost in a series of vignettes not unlike Einstein's Dreams in structure, with serial encounters and comraderies punctuated by modernist episodes of detail-laden solitude. A pot-smoking MIT roommate, a brilliant but estranged childhood friend, a gambling-addicted uncle, a compassionate nanny, and a harried astronomer, among others, all puzzle Bennett with their irrational motivations. The novel is book-ended by the most notable subjects: the last is a beautiful and talented but implacably narcissist lover, while it begins with the most incomprehensible of all possible crazies in Bennett's world: a great physicist devoid of ego. The cumulative exploration of the limits of human reason is tied up nicely at the conclusion, wherein Bennett and his nephew float on a fishing boatamid an incoming fog and test their reactions to feeling lost in the blank shroud of human existence. Lightman's writing style conveys profound insight with sparse dialogue offset by revealing details of action and form. The questions it raises are subtle to the point of seeming to arise spontaneously in the reader's mind. An obliquely haunting story.	2002-09-26
US	47376206	R1I73XIZT7W13J	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	1	23	39	N	N	even worse than Red Mars	Robinson's Red Mars formula of intriguing, well-researched colonization and terraforming technologies forming the background dressing for long-winded, asinine political polemic from a dozen cookie-cutter Ralph Nader campaigners continues here, with even less success than in the original. The laughably demonized transnational corporations are at it again, not content to wrack Earth alone with the spasms of war and environmental catastrophe which are apparently their sole modes of economic activity. The noble Marxist settlers, meanwhile, continue their endless bickering over whether the lifeless geology of Mars is a sacrosanct natural environment that can only be poisoned by the presence of humans, while stirring up in rebellion against the oppressive capitalists. While \\"Red Mars\\" made settling Mars incredibly easy, prepare to keep suspending your disbelief as a multi-talented physicist now also becomes an expert at genetically engineering life to adapt to the Mars environment, while also designing interplanetary ballistic missiles for the People's Revolution in his spare time - despite being lobotomized by the baddies.<br />Our red heroes also get a few new friends, including a new Mars-born generation who may or may not have supernatural hippie powers, and a few new migrs from Earth for whom fondness for surfing replaces the white cowboy hat as the emblazoned symbol of their Good Guy status. It's a shame, because one of them starts out the novel looking like an actual meaningfully different character, and a step outside the tedious Robinson norm, in a terse scene where his frying pan symbolizes his estrangement from his wife and other attachments to Earth. As soon as he gets to Mars, though, he catches the virus that apparently infects everyone on the planet with a disease that makes them talk and act like mass-manufactured new age hippies from UC Davis.<br />A few slight hints at redemption are offered, such as a passage where the purple sky of the Martian duskeffectively conveys the pathos of a Russian main character, and at the end of the novel, when an intriguing engineering solution allows the rescue of a doomed city of colonists. But it's scant consolation for all the many hundreds of wasted pages of yawn-inducing rant. I actually picked up Blue Mars after finishing this one, with one iota of hope left that it might offer some redeeming virtue to explain why each of these three novels was awarded either the Hugo or Nebula Prize. A few pages into it, I gave up and swore off Robinson forever. In one emphasized passage, a young Martian proclaims, \\"I don't give a damn about Earth.\\" Well baby, we don't give a damn about you either.	2002-09-25
US	47376206	R1B7CRMLEN58K4	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	2	11	19	N	N	Mars colonized by Ralph Nader clones	What if Mars were colonized by Ralph Nader's campaign managers? Answering that uncompelling question is Kim Stanley Robinson, in a bid for left-wing bragging rights among his neighbors in infamous Davis, California, his cultural template for a utopian Mars society. The novel's only character development and dialogue involves a dozen or so main characters agonizing and bickering over hair-splitting differences in Green Party dogma. There's no dimension of the characters, of any personal motivation or romantic involvement, that doesn't serve as an addendum to ad nauseum political ramblings. Everyone bands together though to fight the real adversaries: the bloated Earthbound corporations, depicted as a caricature of pure evil in their insatiable quest to consume human dignity and the natural environment, and bent on extending their insidious reach to corrupt the unsullied red planet. A ham-fisted socio-economic polemic dressed up as a novel, which unfortunately doesn't work well as either: the repetitious, clichd social critique is about at the intellectual level of a college freshman trying to show off to his parents on his first visit back home for Thanksgiving.<br />Which is unfortunate, because interspersed among the leaden characters and left-wing rhetoric is also a fascinating, thoroughly researched look at the colonization and terraforming of Mars, in the finest tradition of \\"hard sci-fi.\\" From landing, through base-building, prospecting, resource collection, exploration, etc., we are treated to an insider's peak at just how the first permanent crew on Mars would probably settle in and prepare the way for others to follow. Anyone interested in the science and engineering aspects of settling another planet will be spellbound by these passages.<br />Even here, though, after borrowing extensively from what must have been an exhaustive review of the technical literature, the author egregiously leaves only the skimpiest possible reference to the actual developers of these speculative technologies for settling and terraforming. A page of notes listing references, or at least giving credit for specific bright ideas to their particular originators, would have been more fair. I've had to try to trace down individual references since reading the book to link the hastily mentioned names in the scant reference listing with their particular ideas and papers. This may not affect your ability to enjoy the book, but then again, I found it disappointing.<br />Meanwhile, about halfway through the novel, the first ship of settlers are no longer alone on Mars as hordes of new ships start showing up, at which point the only interesting material from the novel gets phased out in favor of more and more squawking about the same issues. (and more, and more... a decent editor would have insisted he trim half the bulk away, it still would have been more than enough to cover the same material.) Anything incidental, like how or why all these people are leaving Earth for Mars in the first place, is ignored. Although characters start getting killed off at a respectable pace, they remain content to spend all their time debating the fine points of surrendering private ownership of property to the collective community, prohibiting profit-motivated economic activity, and whatever else you're likely to overhear at any Davis-area Starbucks. If you think you'd find this an unacceptable substitute to realistic characters with compelling dialogue and an intriguing plot, maybe we can petition Robinson's editor to pass his stack of references to Orson Scott Card for the next sequel.	2002-09-25
US	47376206	RZYDMHVRYV9K0	0134819128	39024723	Introduction to Space Flight	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Lives up to its title as a perfect intro to space flight	Apparently intended for seniors in aero/astro or aerospace engineering, this book makes a perfect sequel to the typical sophomore/junior course in classical mechanics and a perfect intermediate entry before a proper course in astrodynamics. For instance, three body problems are treated in two dimensions rather than three. The explanations are all straightforward and succinct, and effectively clarify the mathematical derivations. The derivations themselves are just the sort that mathemeticians hate but physics types love, in that they are direct and to the point. The author has some annoying idiosyncracies, perhaps from the traditions of aero/astro types, like defining energy divided by mass as \\"energy\\" and using it that way throughout. But overall, this is a brisk and exhilarating tour through a fascinating application of classical physics.	2002-09-16
US	47376206	R1ZGW96NLI1FZZ	0765300176	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A mixed bag	Card has long advocated the idea that the heroes of the story need to be moral heroes for the reader to identify with them, which makes sense. But in the recent novels, Card seems to require that the heroes are not just moral, but that they are all good Mormons at heart, even though none of them are in fact (except Theresa). Specifically, the earlier installment presented us with a nun believing that the great goal in life is to get married and have lots of children - which we could buy because she was already established as an eccentric and highly unusual nun. But the same idea has spread throughout the main cast of Shadow Puppets, including not just the battle school grads from Thailand and Armenia, but even a gay convict. (Indeed, at least half the world might potentially be offended by this novel, with its combined polemic against gays, Muslims, and Chinese.) Not only has the line between good guys and bad been painted as vastly as possible - each character might as well wear a white or black cowboy hat - but with the character's motivations appearing so arbitrary, the plot their choices drive also becomes contrived. This is compounded by the impression that all these super-genius characters appear to have been taking stupid pills since the last installment; their actions are decidedly non-genius. Without spoiling the plot, Bean and Petra make some extremely questionable judgment calls in their newfound quest to ignore the war and instead start having children, leading them into a new crisis which was blatantly obvious from a mile away, even without superhuman intelligence. Arch-rivals Peter and Achilles, also supposed geniuses, also suddenly have very little to prove it. The novel begins with Peter bringing Achilles to become his \\"assistant\\" at the Hegemony, a move laden with promise for schemes within schemes as these two grandmasters vie both to use and eliminate each other along the way to capturing world power. Instead, it turns out neither of them has anyplan at all, with Peter suddenly fleeing when everyone freaks out that Achilles anticipated being rescued. Meanwhile, Achilles does nothing more than gain shadow power by being buddies with everyone - it's a wonder Elizabeth Bennet didn't displace William Pitt - and subsequently try to seize the office of the Hegemon, which has been depicted at length as an almost powerless institution, and certainly a huge step further away from world dominion than when Achilles had the Chinese Empire under his thumb. Secondary characters also get left out to dry with unfortunate consistency. Suriyawong is set up early in the novel as if the expansion of his role from the previous novel will continue here, but then we never hear anything more than passing references to him again. Virlomi is likewise expanded into the most interesting she has been in the series, yet she feels totally disconnected because the plot ends up requiring her never to communicate with any of the other characters (coded emails notwithstanding). And Han Tsu is suddenly rolled out late in the novel to bare his perspective on working for the enemy.<BR>   Shadow Puppets brought too much to a conclusion for what is supposed to remain of the series. Suffice it to say that Bean, Petra, and Achilles have their future roles pretty tightly nailed down. Peter has inadvertently become the most interesting character, because he is the only one left whose motivation and choices as the story continues to progress are still enigmatic and conflicted. However, his rise to bring the entire Earth under his government, the only real pre-existing constraint on this series based on the earlier Ender novels, has never seemed as incidental or as unbelievable as at the hasty conclusion of Puppets.<BR>   Despite these let-downs, Puppets continues the Ender's Game / Shadow tradition of gripping adventure, devious schemes, and intriguing strategies.	2002-09-07
US	47376206	RPCWHE6YNXWWI	0679450785	351215412	The Future of Life	Books	4	31	36	N	N	A high-calibre primer on environmental conservation	Its refreshing to read an environmental diatribe where the writer has both the authority of a world expert and a willingness to compromise to pursue realistic solutions. Wilson  a Harvard biology professor, two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, and a director of the Nature Conservancy  presents a succinct evaluation of the great ecological issues of our day, focusing on the rapid pace of species extinctions, and on the promise of finding a balance between conservation and human activity that will bring the extinctions to a halt.<br />Future begins with a fascinating overview of life itself, its awesome diversity, its adaptation to the most extreme environments on Earth, and even the possibility of life on Mars, Europa, Callisto, and elsewhere in the Universe. From this perspective of life in the grandest scheme, he turns to the current pace of extinctions due to human activity, depletion of water, crop, and fish resources, and frames a debate with a hypothetical opponent who is more concerned with economic growth than the environment. This hypothetical opponent is a representative of the juggernaut of technology-based capitalism (p. 156), and is portrayed as reading The Economist. However, Wilson recognizes that economic and technological growth cannot be reversed, and instead are the best hope to continue relieving poverty and disease throughout the world. Instead he seeks out a way for its direction [to] be changed by mandate of a generally shared long-term environmental ethic (p. 156) to which everyones opinion can converge. Wilson points out diplomatically that economists also recognize value in the natural environment, and conservationists enjoy driving to national parks in combustion-engine cars.<br />To further his tone of optimistic compromise, Wilson finds hope in the slowdown and projected stop in human population growth, in environmentally friendly legislation and treaties, and in conservation methods that also produce proven economicalvalue, such as ecotourism and bioprospecting for medical products. Wilson even concedes that genetically modified foods, though requiring further study, may contribute to environmental conservation by making agriculture more productive and allowing greater human nutrition to be produced from less cropland, and reducing dependence on chemical pesticides.<br />Wilsons conciliatory tone ends with his professed admiration for the WTO protestors of Seattle and Genoa. He marks the low point of the book by echoing the left-wing polemic that global income disparities contributed to 9/11. He also lapses a few times into the poorly reasoned hyperbole that often erodes the conservationists credibility. For instance, on page 39 we read of the United States, whose citizens are working at a furious pace to overpopulate and exhaust their own land and water from sea to shining sea. Yet, Wilson points out on page 30 that population growth in the United States is now due only to immigration, and that the non-immigrant population of the United States has achieved practically zero growth. In another instance that is more esoteric, but sloppy for an expert on biological history, Wilson suggests humans are the first species to alter the environment on a global scale: Homo Sapiens has become a geophysical force, the first species in the history of the planet to achieve that dubious distinction. This neglects vast influences that have been exerted on the global environment by past life, including the production of all of our oxygen and nitrogen  together constituting 99% of the Earths atmosphere  and the eradication of almost all of the carbon dioxide, which is thought to have formed most of the primitive Earths atmosphere, just as it still composes over 95% of the atmospheres of Earths neighbors, Mars and Venus.<br />On the other hand, Wilsons detailed account of different species that have recently gone extinct or are down to just a few individuals shows good reason to be disturbed. The current rate of extinctions is in the range of the greatest mass extinctions on record, including the K-T impact event that eliminated the dinosaurs and many other life forms 65 million years ago. Wilson outlines what he calls the bottleneck of the next century or so  the efforts, or lack thereof, of our generation will make an indefinitely large difference in the future biological heritage of the Earth.<br />Future is most valuable for presenting a comprehensive road map for environmental remedy. In perhaps the most compelling prescription, Wilson urges an end to perverse subsidies, whereby governments use taxpayer money to finance economically wasteful activity that also destroys the environment, to cater to special interests, or the economically discredited idea of strategic industries. An example of this is the massive subsidies Germany pays to its coal mines, theoretically to protect the miners jobs, but also supporting an operation that is not only not profitable in the free market, but also the single greatest source of global environmental degradation. Wilson goes on to offer a summary of sources of value in biodiversity, some of it not yet realized, and recommends economically valuable drivers for ecological protection. He also identifies twenty-five hotspot ecosystems that together cover only 1.4 percent of Earths land surface, but are the last remaining homes of 43.8 percent of all known species of vascular plants and 35.6 percent of the known mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians.<br />Analyses such as these make it possible for policymakers and other actors to cooperate with conservationists in carrying out conservation efforts according to reasoned priorities, something that cannot be done where conservationists offer nothing more than an undistinguishing, blanket opposition to any development. The Future of Life provides an ideal, scientifically authoritative, well documented,and absorbing primer on the essential issues of environmental conservation, and a concise but vital guide for shaping or understanding environmental policy.	2002-09-07
US	47376206	R1Q68RONU36NV7	0765341921	630659372	Beyond Ender's Game: Speaker for the Dead, Xenocide and Children of the Mind (Box Set)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	A great collection from Sci Fi's grandmaster	Don't be fooled, these sequels have little to do with \\"Ender's Game,\\" despite the marketing hook into Card's early work that remains his opus magnum. They are literal sequels and center on the same main character of Ender, but other than that have as little to do with \\"Ender's Game\\" as possible: they happen on another planet decades after the original, with only one other overlapping character. However, they take the intriguing step of asking, after the hero saves the day, then what? Ender saved humanity in the first installment - where does anyone go from there to live happily ever after? The second through fourth novels explore Ender's quest to live a life that means something more than merely saving the world - by meaning something to the people around him. The best one is Xenocide. By the end of Children of the Mind, it seems like the author has run out of steam - as witnessed by a highly contrived magical return of Ender's siblings, while minor characters flip-flop on their motivation in a way that uncomfortably seems like the author himself considers it arbitrary by this point. It's no wonder that Card found greater inspiration by going back to the setting of the original Ender's Game to start a new thread of novels with the Shadow series. Still, Card's novels are the greatest and most human of any living sci-fi writer, and with few exceptions, he's never in better form than here.	2002-03-20
US	47376206	RWQ807VY3E8P2	0471135615	266854218	Islands in the Sky: Bold New Ideas for Colonizing Space	Books	5	22	24	N	N	a very mixed bag	I'm giving this five stars for the benefit of the chapters by Robert Zubrin and Martyn Fogg, which are ingenious and daringly original analyses of astronautic engineering and terraforming, respectively - each is the godfather of his field. The other material ranges from curiously quirky but not well-thought out (on terraforming Venus) to the kind of worthlessly unintelligent and uninteresting speculations you might expect to overhear from some goon at the bookstore but not to read in print (see the chapter on settling the Oort Cloud). This book was assembled as a &quot;best of&quot; selection from Analog; in a better world it would have been edited by the Journal of the British Interplanetary Society, which would have known where to make the cutoff. Still, the good entries are fantastic enough to be well worth the purchase price.	2002-03-09
US	47376206	R8N309P4PV0XV	0691050848	743712600	The Nature of Space and Time	Books	3	67	78	N	N	hold on for dear life	This was an early attempt to capitalize on Hawking's commercial success with the Brief History. Roger Penrose, Hawking's PhD advisor, has also written some really fascinating books for lay readers on philosophical implications of physics such as on the nature of intelligence. However, combining the two in a debate, the form of this book, cancels out the reader-friendly accessibility of their solo works as their egos take charge and they try to outperform each other. It makes sense after the fact that if they're debating, they must be discussing matters on which they disagree, and since physics is so well settled and understood on all but the most esoteric and advanced questions, the subject matter of their disagreements must lie in that advanced realm. Of course, &quot;advanced&quot; is a vastly relative term to apply to physics, since many ordinary readers would balk at any physics material. But I have a degree in physics, albeit only a BS - and after the initial material I have to struggle to follow anything they're saying! They should stamp this book's cover with a caveat emptor; this is no &quot;Brief History of Time&quot; or &quot;Elegant Universe.&quot; They even mention at the outset that they assume the reader has a basic understanding of physics, but these guys' idea of a basic understanding is a Ph.D. specializing in general relativity. Having said all that, the book still makes for heady reading from what I could pick up here and there, so it's a thrill if you're up to it.	2002-03-09
US	47376206	R3KIPSXKT2QI2P	0743423895	633454625	Space: The Next Business Frontier	Books	2	13	16	N	N	Star journalist or high school slacker?	My excitement at a major new rally to space by a high-profile journalist turned largely to chagrin upon reading this effort, which reads more like a transcript of a spoken-word broadcast than a book, with enough five-second sound bytes to make any CNN anchor envious. Steel yourself to go beyond thickets of breathless hyperbole into really careless errors, such as alternately referring to &quot;Lockheed Titans&quot; (correctly of course) and &quot;Boeing Titans&quot; (say what?) This is more than embarrassing; to see such glaring errors where I know a little about what he's talking about causes me to doubt all the seemingly useful information in areas unfamiliar to me. I can't escape knowing that the book's facts are sloppily researched and undependable. (It also gives me one more reason to wonder about the sentience behind CNN's financial reporting, of which Dobbs was apparently the architect - I'll stick to the Economist magazine.) The book's flaws extend further, with analysis as flawed as the facts. The predictions of developing technology are about as authoritative as if someone read Michio Kaku's &quot;Visions&quot; last summer and is now trying to summarize it to you after a handful of martinis. Think I'm exaggerating? See page 204, for this steeltrap analysis of mining asteroids: &quot;While the robot miners themselves would have to be durable and sturdy, the relative lack of gravity on asteroids might make the actual removal and transport of heavy metals a relatively easy process.&quot; Might be relatively easy? He couldn't say something like, it would be a tremendously difficult and complex feat of engineering, but would have the great advantage of a miniscule escape speed? If you're still not sure, see page 212 for this stunningly unintelligent hot air: &quot;Although a vehicle that can essentially use air as a form of propellant would seem to be the ultimate spacecraft, it does have its limitations, most notably in space where there is no air.&quot; FEELTHE BURN!!! All he's talking about there is air-breathing combustion engines, as space-age as a Ford Model T, which of course are the ultimately WRONG engines to use in the vacuum of space - but he phrases it as if that is a small technical detail. This would feel dumb even relative to the average letter to the editor of &quot;Popular Science.&quot; I can only give Dobbs the benefit of the doubt that he handed off a bunch of half-organized notes to the small-print-listed career shadow writer to assemble into what was supposed to be a coherent book form, and by the time Dobbs saw the finished product, it had already gone to press. So why was I generous enough to give two stars? There is still some interesting information in here, even assuming it is reliable and even if it must be weedled out from among the fluff, which is painful enough to read like AOL Time Warner is experimenting with content-writing software in place of awkward, more expensive human writers. The history of Rene Anselmo's PanAmSat as a renegade startup that now earns a billion dollars a year on GM's behalf is a great example of the tasty tidbits of actual information on space business. Most of the book, though, is a regurgitation of speculations on the future of space business, as if someone decided the world needed a cliff's notes of Gerard O'Neill. Just about all the book's material is covered elsewhere with much more clarity and understanding - the majority is covered with a thousand times more intelligent analysis in the first few chapters of Robert Zubrin's &quot;Entering Space: Creating a Space-Faring Civilization.&quot; In fact, the book co-opts so much previous material in such a dead-on rehash, with so little source documentation, that the book at least borders on plagiarism. (You know when a source does happen to be documented by the humorously dramatic appearance of the word &quot;Source&quot; in parentheses; apparently looking up a standard reference convention in MLA or the Chicago Manual of Style were also beyond the scope of this book, as is any kind of index. Of the sources that are given, most are merely to web sites, another telling testament to the book's research ethic.) Still, hopefully Dobbs' huge mug on the cover - even grainy and slightly out-of-focus as it is - will draw a new cross-section of society into the dialogue on the human future in space. And fleeting through the first half or so of this book is a rational projection of the economic potential of space and an indictment of the bureaucratic domination of the aerospace industry that has stifled progress in the past few decades. I sincerely hope a more responsible commentater takes up the task in the next year or two of releasing the book this should have been. Until then, unless you feel the subject matter here is so compelling to overlook this book's many flaws, you will find your time and money far more rewarded by skipping this slacker's cream puff in favor of Robert Zubrin's &quot;Entering Space.&quot;	2002-01-10
US	47376206	R23G9ASLFQF9ZJ	0441008593	332922332	First Landing	Books	5	5	7	N	N	An Instant Classic of Exploring Mars	First, two caveats: Robert Zubrin is the president of the Mars Society, and I'm the president of a chapter of the Mars Society; and he asked me to post this review after I told him how much I loved the book. So be warned, I was biased before I picked up the book. With that said, I loved this novel, and I found it by far the best of the recent Mars novels that I've read - Zubrin's fiction debut created more lifelike characters and a more compelling plot than &quot;Martian Race&quot; by veteran novelist Gregory Benford, and there's no comparison at all to the hopelessly contrived and woodenly peopled &quot;Red Mars, Green Mars, Blue Mars&quot; trilogy from the Ralph Nader of science fiction, Kim Stanley Robinson. It's also, needless to say, immensely superior to any recent movie about Mars - Hollywood should redeem itself from last year's two fiascos (\\"Mission to Mars\\" and \\"Red Planet\\") by making a movie out of this book. \\"First Landing\\" serves largely as an illustration of Zubrin's mission designs that he perfected as an engineer at Lockheed Martin and then as CEO of Pioneer Astronautics - both of the virtues of the designs and the danger of interfering with them. Anyone who wants to learn more about the technical side of these efforts would get a huge kick out of Zubrin's non-fiction, \\"The Case for Mars\\" and \\"Entering Space,\\" which outline some of the cleverest, most compelling space engineering since the giant leap for mankind in 1969. But this novel goes far beyond mere technical brilliance, upon which much hard science fiction rests. Several genuine, compelling characters are painted with an economy of dialogue and details, and feel more sympathetic and more real than is common in hard science fiction, while not detracting from the fast pace and adventure into the unknown that are the primary goal of the book. Although, one of the five crew members, the geologist, is portrayed so marginally qualified as either an astronaut or a decent person that he feels one-dimensional. For some reason, he's also so similar to real-life astronaut James Reilly, who for several years until 2000 was NASA's only Ph.D. geologist astronaut, it makes me wonder if this is a criticism of NASA's lack of preparation in training qualified geologists to be ready for Mars. The story isn't without a few other flaws. A couple of jarring turns in the story go far beyond mere plot twists and compromise our suspension of disbelief  - look out for a murderous rage to appear only to evaporate, and later on, for an even more unexpected decision by two crew members. Perhaps even more disturbing to someone familiar with Zubrin's ideas, was the presence of a historian with no science or engineering training as a fifth crew member, when \\"The Case for Mars\\" is emphatic that on the first mission, even such vital positions as doctor, pilot, and commander should be filled as part-time jobs of qualified full-time scientists and engineers. I'm not sure if Zubrin intended that as a mission flaw imposed by the misguided NASA, as with the Venus flyby trajectory, or if seeing the value of Sam Burbank at the Flashline Mars Arctic Research Station has convinced him that communicating the mission to the public is that much more important than he had previously thought. Whatever the case, the experience on Mars feels very real in this book, as do the dangers the crew face and the heroism with which they respond. It's a quick, classic, gripping adventure in a fascinating new world, one we may be exploring for real in the near future. Overall I loved the book - if you read only one sci fi novel this year, let it be \\"First Landing.\\"	2001-09-07
