US	47370464	R35QJK8IS9O883	0953192601	405661936	Greasepaint and Gore: The Hammer Monsters of Roy Ashton	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great contribution to Hammer history	It warms my heart to see there are people out there researching and preserving the history of those cultural heroes whose work often goes unsung. This book is a mine of information on Roy Ashton, the make-up artist responsible for creating most of Hammer's most memorable monsters in the '50s through '70s, including the Mummy, the Werewolf (in Curse of the Werewolf) and the Reptile. The amount of previously unseen material, including photos, original designs and technical and biographical facts, is astounding. Good job, boys!	2005-08-11
US	47370464	R10ABT49IVMO4I	1418401803	605458297	Seeds of Deception: Planting Destruction of America's Children	Books	1	15	41	N	N	Prejudicial, unsubstantiated right-wing propaganda	I was sincerely prepared to give this book a chance. I had my suspicions, of course, but I thought I would try to interact seriously and evenhandedly with it. I gave up treating it as a serious piece of research or opinion after a few chapters.<br /><br />Preskar argues that a militantly anti-Christian, anti-family agenda is brainwashing the minds of children in America. She compares it to Hitler's brainwashing of Nazi Germany, and doesn't miss an opportunity to paint it in spooky, demonic colours.<br /><br />This is a book from which even many evangelicals would want to disassociate themselves. Preskar proclaims all homosexuals as dangerous paedophiles who cannot be trusted with children, whom they would seduce. She warns parents against allowing their children contact with homosexuals, even homosexuals among their own family and relatives. Friendships with children who have a \\"gender identity disorder\\" are condemned because they too can be sucked into a gay orientation, and be seduced into the homosexual lifestyle.<br /><br />Basically, if you're gay, expect anyone taking Preskar's advice seriously to deny you access to children, prevent you having friendships, cut you off from your family and deny you any quality of life or human rights whatsoever -- unless of course you change your orientation. Easily done.<br /><br />How can people write such blatant propaganda without a shred of evidence and then shirk responsibility when gays end up depressed and committing suicide? This is irresponsible nonsense that represents the very worst of prejudiced, hateful, narrowminded and bigoted fundamentalism.	2005-04-19
US	47370464	R2ZBQUFP0J20IO	0805410589	573989202	Jesus and the Gospels	Books	4	23	26	N	N	Impressive conservative introduction to the gospels	As a former conservative, I find Craig Blomberg stands out among evangelical biblical scholars for his integrity, his reasoned approach and his scholarly engagement with critical issues.    Jesus and the Gospels is a comprehensive work that introduces readers to the background of the four gospels, including historical details, social setting and the process of composition, for example. Blomberg makes use of a wide range of critical sources, including recent Jesus scholarship and social-scientific criticism. Conclusions are generally conservative, but highly nuanced.    This is certainly recommended as a source of insight into Jesus' life and times. It is pitched roughly at undergraduate standard. Personally, I have found it a valuable reference tool in my career as a teacher of Religious Education.	2004-10-07
US	47370464	R3BZT4C788AMC2	0830826858	563796681	The Historical Reliability of John's Gospel: Issues & Commentary	Books	3	22	46	N	N	A worthy read	I haven't finished with this book yet, but I see it has been around a while, and there are no reviews at all, so I thought I'd at least add some preliminary observations to help prospective readers.<br />Blomberg, of course, writes from the perspective of a fairly conservative evangelical. I am not (or, more accurately, no longer) an evangelical, and yet I find Blomberg is one of a handful of evangelical biblical scholars who deserves to be read and taken seriously by non-evangelicals.<br />The format here is very simple: a) an introduction to the historical issues surrounding John's gospel, a rundown of the Johannine distinctives that cause scholars to doubt its historicity, and a survey of the main arguments concerning authorship, genre and critical methodology; b) a commentary on the text of John, dealing with the historical issues as they arise; c) a conclusion.<br />By no means does Blomberg simply opt for the most conservative interpretation available, although he certainly argues for the general historical trustworthiness of John's gospel. My biggest concern is what he'll do with all the theological padding, especially the high christology of some of the discourse attributed to Jesus himself -- for me personally, that is one of the most historically dubious aspects of the gospel (and I say that as a trinitarian who has no problem affirming the deity of Christ). I haven't gotten very far into the commentary itself yet, so it remains to be seen what Blomberg argues.<br />Two things that would have made the book an easier read are footnotes, rather than the awkward references scattered in parentheses throughout the book as it is, and also the text of John itself alongside the commentary, for convenient reference.	2004-07-19
US	47370464	R2UXZCOEIBHIAW	1903111447	561983093	Hammer Films: The Bray Studio Years	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fascinating and essential	I haven't put this book down since I first picked it up six months ago. Kinsey's history of Hammer's Bray years (i.e. until 1967) is full of fascinating details I have not encountered elsewhere. He really manages to inspire an affection and enthusiasm for both the films and the Bray studios themselves.<br />By far the best section, and the reason I keep returning to the book, is the multi-page illustrated tour through the history of Bray's backlot, packed with rarely seen photos of Hammer's most memorable sets.<br />Essential reading for Hammer fans.	2004-06-27
US	47370464	R35G6QVERJHMLR	0310231965	493272288	Smell of Sawdust, The	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting reflections... will definitely revisit	I am a former evangelical, and have come to the point in my pilgrimage where I am able to offer a more balanced assessment of my evangelical past. Mouw, on the other hand, was brought up fundamentalist (in the historic sense of the word), is now evangelical, and tries here to reflect positively on what he gained from his fundamentalist heritage.<br />I should admit from the offset that Mouw was in general far too soft on fundamentalism for my tastes. But then, as he candidly admits, his &quot;lengthy exposure to fundamentalism has not left [him] badly bruised,&quot; though he acknowledges for many others such is not the case.<br />I should also confess that I found some of his areas of agreement with fundamentalism a little puzzling: He seems to accept almost unquestioningly that a decline in &quot;Christian&quot; standards in society is reason for political action; he appears to suggest that if a book by Hal Lindsey can lead someone to Christ, dispensationalism is, in some small way, vindicated (could God be speaking despite Lindsey's dispensationalism rather than because of it?); indeed, Mouw has a habit of finding good points and then using them to vindicate fundamentalism, if only partially, but they are too often unconvincing (eg. dispensationalism is vindicated because it addresses the need for Christians to know something about the future -- a debatable point in any case -- but could you not vindicate Seventh-Day Adventism, or indeed any scheme of eschatological prediction, in the same way?).<br />Having said that, Mouw does manage to put across something of the &quot;warm piety&quot; of fundamentalist religion, the emphasis on closeness to and personal relationship with God. Indeed, that is what I will carry on with me from evangelicalism, despite its failings. He also reminds us of the danger of a Christianity that simply becomes an ideology (so early liberalism, in many respects), a matter of following a set of teachings, divorced from any concept of an actual atoning work of God in Jesus Christ. And even if Mouw does tend to be a little too easy-going on fundamentalism, he does offer a perceptive, albeit gentle, critique on several important points. Lastly, he models a good attitude that many of us who have left behind our religious upbringings would do well to learn from -- one of a certain amount of respect, appreciation and fair analysis.<br />I recommend this book for fundamentalists, as it certainly will present them with a challenge, for evangelicals who wish to understand fundamentalists better, and for those who have left fundamentalism or, like myself, have moved on from evangelicalism altogether.	2004-02-29
US	47370464	RMXXLFXVSP2RT	0140260234	241393288	Language Myths	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Excellent introduction to the issues	This collection of essays addresses several longstanding myths and misconceptions about how language works. The contributors are all linguists, yet all write in an accessible manner, which makes this ideal reading for the layperson.<br />Among the issues addressed are whether &quot;bad grammar&quot; is a sign of laziness, whether &quot;kids can't talk or write properly these days,&quot; and whether black children are &quot;verbally deprived&quot;. These issues are important because the widespread views are founded on very little evidence, and run contrary to everything linguists know about language. The tone of the essays is remarkably gracious, given that most of the language myths are based on pseudo-linguistic arguments that actually boil down to simple ignorance and prejudice.<br />Readers who will most benefit are those who have swallowed the insistence of the &quot;language mavens&quot; (to use Steven Pinker's phrase) that we ought all to speak &quot;proper English&quot;. Books such as this handy volume will go a long way to correcting such misconceived and potentially damaging polemics. Bravo to Trudgehill et al.	2004-02-07
US	47370464	R3CG1HRP7V794U	0465021530	768348685	Lying About Hitler	Books	4	26	44	N	N	A fraud expertly demolished	When David Irving sued for libel after Deborah Lipstadt claimed he was an anti-Semitic Holocaust-denier who deliberately falsified and manipulated evidence, the Cambridge historian Richard J Evans was charged with examining Irving's writings to discover whether Lipstadt's claims were true. He was NOT, as is often alleged, paid to formulate a case against Irving. He was paid as an independent historian to give expert evidence, and Penguin books (being sued) would simply have to hope his investigation came out in their favour. Had he found Irving's writings to be credible, he would have gained nothing financially by denying it. (I mention this because it often surfaces as an argument for discrediting Evans's evidence.) Evans's findings proved Lipstadt's claims about Irving to be justified, and Irving lost his case in spectacular fashion.<br />Here is Evans's evidence presented in gripping form, beginning with an overview of the controversy, continuing with a systematic presentation of Irving's main claims (that the Holocaust killed only several hundred thousand Jews rather than several million; that Hitler tried to prevent much of the Holocaust, and was in fact unaware of much of what went on; that there was never a systematic attempt to exterminate the Jews etc.) and Evans's evidence that those claims were based on deliberate fabrication, taking us through an account of Irving's testimony in the witness box, and ending with the verdict, including an insightful overview and assessment of the public response to the verdict.<br />Professor Evans very clearly and persuasively demonstrates that Irving's manipulation of historical sources was not merely careless oversight, but calculated and deliberate falsification, borne out of anti-Semitism and a desire to vindicate Hitler.	2004-01-20
US	47370464	R38DY8W8KM9923	1556524323	397985120	The Worldwide Guide to Movie Locations	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unrivalled resource for anyone fascinated by movie locations	To me there is something almost magical about movie locations. Knowing that a place you may have revisited several times in your favourite film actually exists somewhere out there in the real world is a wonderful thought -- for me at least. And if you share my fascination, this is a book for you.<br />It is inevitable that everyone will be able to find omissions and oversights. Reasonably speaking, however, we could not expect Reeves to accommodate all we expect of such a book without running to several volumes (perhaps a sequel is in order, Tony?), and readers will all have films that hold a special place in their affections that there simply wasn't space to include. In fact, even though there are things I would have appreciated more of myself (my birthplace of Vancouver doesn't get enough mentions, despite being the \\"Hollywood of the North\\"), I found myself frequently amazed at the detail Reeves did go into. The book is positively bursting with photographs. Each entry is packed with bits of trivia, pertinent observations and all the details you'll need to go out and find the locations for yourself.<br />I haven't yet thrown my backpack over my shoulder to trek around the world in search of all these places -- but I will, someday. And Tony Reeves's guide will be right there in my pack along with my map, my can-opener and my change of underwear.	2004-01-11
US	47370464	RRGTOHPMWYNLZ	0877840547	568523142	Parable of the Dancing God	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Brilliant... (but this edition is slightly lacking!)	The Parable of the Dancing God is an exhilarating retelling of the parable of the Prodigal Son, with the emphasis rightly taken off the sinfulness of the sin and placed on the overwhelming mercy and forgiveness of the father. Baxter's writing oozes grace, and reintroduces the reader to the extravagant love of a God who comes running to welcome us in Jesus Christ.<br />The only reason I did not give this five stars is that this edition (published by IVP) is missing some of the best material from Baxter's original book. If you can get your hands on the original, with the added chapters, do so!	2003-08-22
US	47370464	R3M0AYFRSIITRD	0333648064	518285828	The Macmillan Good English Handbook	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A sticky subject well-treated	Howard's concise guide to good English is by far the best volume of its type I have found. The debate over what constitutes &quot;good&quot; or &quot;proper&quot; English takes place in an arena dominated, I think, by elitist ignoramuses who seem to think the English language dropped out of the sky in perfect, immutable form. I am happy to report that Godfred Howard is most assuredly not in that camp. He treats the English language fairly, with an appropriate degree of flexibility and a solid understanding of linguistics in general.<br />The book takes the format of a dictionary or encyclopaedia, and covers problem-words, grammatical and syntactical &quot;rules&quot; and tricky issues such as unisex grammar. He does not hesitate to indicate his own preferences, but is usually careful to give leeway to variations within the English language, which reflects a good linguistic underpinning, common sense and, above all, a reality-grounded approach to English that belies the prudish and pedantic sensibilities of lesser minds who have forayed into the &quot;proper English&quot; debate.	2003-06-12
US	47370464	R1TA67D1VUP1RI	0859531066	557027301	Orlando's Little-While Friends (Child's Play Library)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lasting classic	It was a serendipitous moment when I discovered Orlando's Little-While Friends sitting on the bookshelf at my sister's place. I assumed it had been thrown out or given away along with all the other cherished objects of our childhoods. I was yet more surprised to discover the book was still in print. It was over twenty years ago in Canada, as a boy of four or five, that I first read this beautiful story, and its appeal remains strong even today.<br />Orlando sets off with his parents in his super-shiny-travel-anywhere van for the summer. He doesn't share his parents' happiness, however: He must leave all his cherished friends behind. Will he be lonely? How will he make friends? How will he overcome his shyness? Will he risk everything, push the boat out and find some little-while friends, or will he let his bashfulness get the better of him and hide away from the world? The author explores Orlando's vulnerability, loneliness and how he confronts his fears to make little-while friends. These themes are treated in a way so touchingly human that even I, as a twenty-five year old, could relate.<br />The scrapbook style, with its many lushly coloured illustrations, is what takes the story the extra distance to make this into a true classic. Its value lies not just in it being great fun, but in exploring in a highly accessible way some very important life issues. Snap this up while it is still in print.	2003-05-14
US	47370464	R15WK9E1F74C8J	9004099212	583388165	Handbook to Exegesis of the New Testament (NEW TESTAMENT TOOLS AND STUDIES)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Excellent resource	It has been a few years since I made use of this book, but I see no one has reviewed it, so my few comments can only help.<br />This is a top-quality resource, providing papers and essays by some of the finest biblical scholars on each of the main methods of critical interpretation. The tone is academic, but accessible enough for your regular pastor or serious student of theology, if not the entirely untrained layman.<br />I would not hesitate to recommend this as the best volume of its kind available, although on the negative side, not many people are going to be in a position to spend [dollar amount] on a single volume. I recommend ordering a copy from your library or finding some other way of borrowing it.<br />For an infinitely better-priced compendium, albeit only a second-runner to Porter's volume, you can purchase I H Marshall's New Testament Interpretation for [dollar amount] or less.	2003-04-12
US	47370464	R2VVU9GC031JUB	0801025214	547740672	Showing the Spirit: A Theological Exposition of 1 Corinthians, 12-14	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Thorough and useful	Carson's book is relatively short at less than 200 pages, but it offers an excellent exegesis of 1 Corinthians 12-14. He draws on the best of recent scholarship, and is thorough in covering the major issues. Even if you disagree with his conclusions, he will prove helpful in highlighting questions and points of debate pertinent to the interpretation of perhaps one of the most controversial parts of the New Testament.<br />The author is neither a cessationist nor a charismatic with an axe to grind, and deals with the text fairly even-handedly. As a quasi-appendix (though it is actually probably a third of the book), he addresses a few relevant hermeneutical issues in relation to the book of Acts, and offers some pastoral reflections on the charismatic movement. Overall, Showing the Spirit is a comprehensive, yet succinct, introduction to the main exegetical issues in the chapters it addresses, and a number of great insights are to be found within its pages.<br />Incidentally, you could probably find a cheaper edition somewhere (my copy, published by Paternoster, UK, cost me less than £5 new just a few years ago).	2003-03-30
US	47370464	RS7025JAPRHE5	0801025214	547740672	Showing the Spirit: A Theological Exposition of 1 Corinthians, 12-14	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Thorough and useful	Carson's book is relatively short at less than 200 pages, but it offers an excellent exegesis of 1 Corinthians 12-14. He draws on the best of recent scholarship, and is thorough in covering the major issues. Even if you disagree with his conclusions, he will prove helpful in highlighting questions and points of debate pertinent to the interpretation of perhaps one of the most controversial parts of the New Testament.<br />The author is neither a cessationist nor a charismatic with an axe to grind, and deals with the text fairly even-handedly. As a quasi-appendix (though it is actually probably a third of the book), he addresses a few relevant hermeneutical issues in relation to the book of Acts, and offers some pastoral reflections on the charismatic movement. Overall, Showing the Spirit is a comprehensive, yet succinct, introduction to the main exegetical issues in the chapters it addresses, and a number of great insights are to be found within its pages.<br />Incidentally, you could probably find a cheaper edition somewhere (my copy, published by Paternoster, UK, cost me less than £5 new just a few years ago).	2003-03-30
US	47370464	R3OHACRT4SKDEY	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	1	81	240	N	N	Tediously pedestrian presentation of standard Reformed dogma	Make no bones about it: Grudem's Systematic Theology represents about the dullest and least inspired end of the evangelical theological spectrum. His method is only too obvious: Announce your conclusions; line up the prooftexts; shoot holes through everyone else's prooftexts; proudly announce the matter settled.<br />Grudem's 1200-page tome is not hard to understand, yet its banality makes it unreadable except for those who share his uncritical prooftexting approach to theology. He consciously avoids interaction with non-conservative sources on the grounds that dialogue with theologians or scholars who do not maintain a belief in the inerrancy of the Bible is fruitless. This view of Scripture is set out in the first view chapters in a formulaic manner that will convince only his fellow inerrantists. From thereon in, Grudem ploughs through the standard Reformed doctrines with utter sincerity and conviction, and yet utterly unconvincing to all but card-carrying members of his world.<br />By way of example of the trite and mind-numbing nature of Grudem's theology, note the twenty-four pages he offers on the doctrine of the Trinity, most of which is spent proving his case, refuting opposing viewpoints, and barely a page explaining what relevance it has for Christian theology and faith. The picture we get is that the Trinity is merely a dogma to be defended because it is true. Whether it really means anything appears secondary. We get no vision of what overarching implications the Trinity might have for Christians, but just a few contrived and unconnected points that fall woefully short of integrating the dogma into anything approaching a coherent Christian theology.<br />I feel I have been rather harsh with Grudem, but perhaps deservedly. He frequently throws up simplistic answers to his opponents' arguments and quotes Bible texts in support of his own views (basically the Calvinism of the Westminster Confession) in an alarmingly glib manner, rarely offering any real exegesis, and rarely justifying his philosophical assumptions (indeed, we get the impression he thinks he has none TO defend).<br />This may well give you a thorough overview of conservative Reformed evangelicalism (with, importantly, a charismatic bent), but outside of that narrow scope of usefulness, its value is severely limited.egesis, and rarely justifying his philosophical assumptions (indeed, we get the impression he thinks he has none TO defend).<br />This may well give you a thorough overview of conservative Reformed evangelicalism (with, importantly, a charismatic bent), but outside of that narrow scope of usefulness, its value is severely limited.	2003-03-21
US	47370464	R1Y5M31GCOTCW8	0785209921	752973910	Truth Aflame: A Balanced Theology for Evangelicals and Charismatics	Books	3	4	5	N	N	One of the better theologies for young, evangelical readers	A few months ago a friend of mine, a conservative evangelical-charismatic, asked me to recommend an accessible systematic theology for a young man at his church. I hesitated to recommend anything as trite and formulaic as Grudem, and could not think of a better alternative. So I was delighted when I came across Hart's Truth Aflame.<br />Hart eschews cold dogmatics and presents a living, vibrant evangelical faith. Being rather outside the pale of conservative evangelicalism, I naturally disagreed theologically at points, but appreciated the emphasis on a merciful and loving God as he is revealed to us rather than lots of heavy philosophizing and inane prooftexting in order to argue inconsequential points (so Grudem). His sources span most of the roughly conservative end of Christianity as a whole: A glance at the index will reveal the most cited authors to be Karl Barth, James Dunn, CS Lewis and Wolfhart Pannenberg among some more standard conservative evangelical authors such as FF Bruce and Millard Erickson; There are also a few references to some more controversial figures such as Pat Robertson and Oral Roberts--more of an embarrassment than a help.<br />In retrospect, there are a few other evangelical systematic theologies I might recommend: Millard Erickson (Christian Theology); J Rodman Williams (Renewal Theology: Systematic Theology from a Charismatic Perspective); James Leo Garrett (Systematic Theology: Biblical, Historical, Evangelical); and Stanley J Grenz (Theology for the Community of God). None of these rivals Hart's book for accessibility, however.	2003-03-10
US	47370464	R2OVQ0ZOENVAOL	0849940931	313065056	How to Get the Most from God's Word	Books	1	7	27	N	N	The Subtle Art of Self-Promotion	I thought potential readers might be intrigued to hear a few excerpts and observe John MacArthur's incredibly subtle self-promotion techniques.<br />Chapter One: &quot;...Man's search for God must begin and end in the Scriptures because that is where God has revealed Himself. A personal resource, such as the MacArthur Study Bible, can help you learn more about God and what His plan is for your life.&quot;<br />Chapter Two: &quot;This becomes clear in the next aspect of our study. (Consult a Bible reference tool, such as the MacArthur Study Bible, for more on how God inspires the Scripture.)&quot;<br />Chapter Three: &quot;One way to tell a saved person from an unsaved person is that one listens to the Word of God and the other doesn't. Are you listening? Are you studying the Bible with resources like the MacArthur Study Bible? The effort is well worth it, for the Bible is God's Word to you.&quot;<br />Chapter Four: &quot;Our minds should be a tablet on which the Word of God is written. We are to read it and study it with the useful Bible resources available to us, such as [can you guess?] the MacArthur Study Bible and other Bible commentaries.&quot;<br />Charitably, I think, John refrains from mentioning the MacArthur Study Bible for a few chapters, but by Chapter Nine he is starting to itch again: &quot;...every aspect of living is covered in the pages of the Bible. References [sic] tools, such as the MacArthur Study Bible and topical analyses of the Bible, can easily point you to verses on various subjects.&quot;<br />Chapter Ten: &quot;But in order to own the truths of the Bible and apply them, Christians must continue to hold onto the Word and to study it. [But how are we supposed to do that?] Resources like the MacArthur Study Bible and various Bible dictionaries can assist in this process. [Aha! Thanks, John!]&quot;<br />Chapter Twelve: &quot;If we want to change our diet, we should start with the sincere milk of the Word of God. We need to spend time readingthe Bible. We need to study it with the assistance of Bible helps, such as the MacArthur Study Bible, Bible dictionaries and various commentaries.&quot;<br />By now, you may be wondering just how to set about all this Bible reading John proposes. Is there any particular avenue we ought to go down? What exciting resources might be available to help us on our way? Luckily, John foresees this, and provides us with our answer in Chapter Thirteen: &quot;Unless we are in the Word, reading it, memorizing it, learning what it means by reading study Bibles, such as the MacArthur Study Bible, and then finally, truly knowing it, all our talk about abiding and fruit-bearing is just hot air.&quot;<br />(&quot;All our talk...just hot air,&quot; a very interesting turn of phrase from California's Prince of Preachers.) Obviously, one of the key questions first-time Bible readers will by now be asking is, &quot;How is the Bible organized?&quot;. This question, fortunately for us humble seekers, provides the heading for Chapter Fifteen, in which wise John shouts us to some very profitable advice: &quot;This story is from God to you; and it is all about you. Read it. Study it with Bible study tools, such as this book, the MacArthur Study Bible, and various commentaries.&quot;<br />In case we didn't hear it the first time, the increasingly thoughtful John drops us a veiled reminder in Chapter Sixteen: &quot;The second step [after finding out what the Bible says] is finding out what it means. We'll discuss that in the next chapter. That is when Bible study tools, such as commentaries, Bible dictionaries, and study Bibles, like the MacArthur Study Bible, become useful to your study of God's Word.&quot;<br />Finally, lest we read the Bible and think we can rely on our own interpretations for its meaning, Chapter Seventeen gives us a clue as to how we should evaluate our interpretations: <BR>&quot;Here is where you stop to check what commentators and other scholars have said about the passage--from what I have said in the MacArthur Study Bible to what various biblical scholars have said in The Nelson Study Bible.&quot;<br />I used to be cynical about the health and wealth preachers and applaud John MacArthur. Here you'll find the standard fundamentalist defense of Scripture (which I by no means agree with) is merely a thin disguise for two hundred pages of unabashed self-advertising.<br />Good luck as, with the help of the Holy Spirit, you delve into the treasures of John's Word (*Oops!*--God's Word!).	2003-02-14
US	47370464	R1C3W403NHCSJP	0786411678	369184486	Terence Fisher: Horror, Myth and Religion	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Seminal work	All credit to Paul Leggett, a Presbyterian pastor no less, for producing this seminal study of the religious and mythical themes in Terence Fisher's films. He argues convincingly, from a canon including most of the significant horrors he made for Hammer, that the mythological worldview of Fisher's films is intrinsically Christian. Leggett examines the fundamental motifs in the films and reveals an underlying story of the battle between good and evil, seen in terms of the traditional Christian symbols of the fall, the cross etc. He provides a good sense of the development of the horror film, and laments how the classical themes of redemption have been replaced with an almost nihilistic worldview (see, eg. my review of Rosemary's Baby).<br />Leggett's work is important for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is the work of a committed Christian. Christian (or at least evangelical) attitudes to film, in particular horror film, have been ambivalent at best, and Leggett's work, if it gains the popularity it deserves, may challenge Christians to rethink the issues. Secondly, it contributes to a debate about Fisher's work that has probably only really emerged in the last couple of decades, as his right to be seen as more than a maker of B-standard horror movies has been acknowledged. Thirdly, it is the only work (to my knowledge) that examines the religious, mythical and, in particular, specifically Christian, themes in Fisher's work. As such, the book has opened up a new part of the debate.<br />On the negative side, I would mention a few things. Firstly, the author has a tendency, no doubt because of his own faith, to paint Fisher in evangelical, or at least very conservative/orthodox, stripes, perhaps assuming too close a correlation between the imagery and mythology he chose to structure his stories around and the actual content of Fisher's personal faith. Secondly, at just under two hundred pages (including illustrations), it feels rather brief, and I am sure there is much more the author could have said--and indeed, should say, hopefully in a later volume. Thirdly, I wish the stills had been chosen with more attention to how they amplify or illustrate Leggett's interpretation of Fisher's films, perhaps noting lighting, positioning, imagery, angles etc...	2003-02-14
US	47370464	RNXV9BVOFNZ6O	0805940693	951934177	Behind the Scenes: The True Face of the Fake Faith Healers	Books	2	15	20	N	N	Heart-rending account, but ultimately of little value...	Yves Brault's expose of Benny Hinn (and a few others in the process) certainly tugs at the heart-strings. If his account is truthful, the way he and his family (and many others) were treated by Hinn and his ministry is scandalous. There is certainly no reason why the story couldn't be true: Unfortunately, most of Brault's evidence is anecdotal and undocumented, which leaves it pretty much his word against Hinn's for the most part. It is also largely a tirade against Hinn for the way he was personally treated, rather than a thorough expose of faith healers (one or two chapters draw parallels with the hypnotic technique of Anton Mesmer, and there are also a few \\"fake healings\\" reported). Thus, Brault's narrative is awash with subjective statements such as when he recounts the story of Hinn having an elderly woman removed from the auditorium for coughing during his sermon, where he states that Hinn gave the lady a \\"hateful look\\" as he gestured for his bodyguards to escort her away. Exactly what constitutes a hateful look? Is it always distinguishable from mere annoyance? Of course not. A man (like Brault) with a bee in his bonnet about Hinn is bound to interpret an expression of mild dissatisfaction as intense hatred. Then, of course, we move away from objective reporting and toward personal ill-feeling. Fair enough, but Brault cannot expect it to be taken as anything other than it is: One man's story; one man's interpretation.<br />I have no reason to defend Hinn or other healing evangelists of his ilk. On the contrary, I positively loathe what they do and the deceptions the perpetrate. But this (rather poorly edited) book is, in the final analysis, of little concrete value. People who hate Hinn will believe every word; people who love Hinn will deny every word. Neither side will be able to prove anything. Behind the Scenes will convince those who want to be convinced, and will elicit only anger and staunch denial from those who do not want to be convinced.	2002-12-12
US	47370464	RNA50IG7IR4IM	0140171940	267339668	Chapter and Verse: A Skeptic Revisits Christianity	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Agnostic revisits fundamentalist Christianity	Mike Bryan's sincerity is evident in almost every word of this heartfelt account of the author's term spent at the evangelical-fundamentalist seminary Criswell College in Texas. With no detectable trace of ulterior motive, guile or superiority, he became a part of the life of this small (about 350 students) Christian college in the heart of the Bible Belt. The book takes us through his many experiences, including conversations with college faculty and students, chapel services, a trip to the Southern Baptist Convention and a mission to El Salvador. Interspersed with these recollections are his own reflections on faith.<br />He is disarmingly honest, and one would be unusually hard-pressed to rake up evidence that he had any particular axe to grind, or that he set out to do an expose of Protestant fundamentalism: Indeed, he is candid about the inadequacies of his own particular agnosticism, and does not try to set them against the often seemingly naive and foolish world of fundamentalism. What he discovers are real people who don't fit the stereotype, and his genuine intentions towards these people (who became real friends during his time at Criswell) are clearly visible.<br />His most interesting observation is that the apparent distance between these fundamentalists and unbelievers - the former are heavenbound, while the latter are wicked sinners destined for hell unless they repent - is only intellectual; on a deeper, more human and heartfelt level the author finds that most of his evangelical friends and acquaintances are accepting, and there is little sign of any real distance in their relations.<br />Bryan is gifted in that, although he is no Christian, and remained unconvinced by the arguments and claims he was faced with at Criswell, he can see others first and foremost as human beings. Thus, Chapter and Verse is no anti-fundamentalist polemic; rather it is one man's account of what he really found - minus all the trappings of labels and stereotypes - when hegot to know a group of fundamentalists for themselves.<br />As is common with books written about theological, biblical or ecclesiastical issues by people who are foremost journalists (I am reminded of Bruce Bawer's far less charitable Stealing Jesus: How Fundamentalism Betrays Christianity), the author reveals himself as something of a dilettante on some religious matters. He makes a number of elementary mistakes: His definition of the Chalcedonian formulation of the two natures in Christ is misleading; He wrongly includes premillennialism as one of the five fundamentals published by the earliest fundamentalists; there were a few others.<br />He also draws one or two puzzling conclusions, such as that fundamentalists (apparently) are uniquely representative of \\"biblical\\" Christianity; that non-evangelicals cannot lay claim to following the Bible as closely and consistently as evangelicals. Such an inference is only true within the fundamentalist scheme of interpretation; nevertheless, Bryan is so transparent and genuine that one can overlook a few errors made in good faith. Chapter and Verse is one of the more nuanced portrayals of fundamentalist Christianity in recent years, and Bryan's compelling manner had me hooked from start to finish.	2002-12-11
US	47370464	R1M9JEBX34GKL7	006063040X	880996105	The Five Gospels: What Did Jesus Really Say? The Search for the Authentic Words of Jesus	Books	2	40	56	N	N	Grossly uneven work	This collection of the four canonical gospels plus the Gospel of Thomas (all newly translated) is the fruit of several years of research and discussion by the Jesus Seminar, a group of scholars brought together to disseminate the gospels in order to discover the \\"historical\\" Jesus over and against the \\"Jesus of faith\\". The book can be summarized as comprising three features: An introduction to historical criticism of the gospels, with a rundown and explanation of the rules followed by the Jesus Seminar in order to discover which words were actually spoken by Jesus; the translations themselves; and the running commentary explaining the reasoning behind each decision.<br />The introduction is accessible and informative. Generally, the claims made are not sensational in the sense that many of the Seminar's critics would make out. However, it is here that they reveal their working assumptions, and I cannot overstate how misconceived these assumptions are. It is not that they are entirely unfounded, but rather they are half-truths turned into hard-and-fast rules which when applied can only mislead. For example, members of the Seminar observe that Jesus' sayings often cut across the religious and political grain. Therefore, one of the rules becomes (unjustifiably): Jesus only ever said things that cut across the religious and social grain. The result: Jesus is gagged. He is simply not allowed to say anything in agreement with the religion or politics of his day. Therefore, he never quoted Scripture. If it isn't radical, new or totally out-of-step with the culture, Jesus didn't say it.<br />The reasoning is all circular. How shall we resist concluding that all the Jesus Seminar's findings were determined from the very start? They begin with the assumption that Jesus never spoke in anything but parables or aphorisms (or at least that it is impossible for anything more than that to have survived oral transmission), that he never said anything that agreed with the religion orpolitics of his day, that he never initiated dialogue or debate, and that he never spoke about a coming kingdom (just four of the many rules). How do we know he didn't do any of these things? Well, the Jesus Seminar's research proves it, of course! How does it prove it? By assuming all these things in the first place, and rejecting anything that doesn't conform.<br />The actual translation is rendered as casually as possible, in an attempt to reflect adequately each of the evangelists' unique styles. The principle they follow is a good translation shouldn't sound like a translation at all. Unfortunately, they shoot themselves in the foot, for the language and phraseology employed frequently sounds ridiculously crass, and we are painfully aware that we are reading a translation, and at times a very bad one, akin to reading one of those evangelical paraphrases that were so popular in the seventies.<br />The system for distinguishing the words of Jesus from later fabrications and additions is by means of four different typefaces: red (Jesus said this, or something quite like it); pink (Jesus probably said this, or something like it); grey (Jesus probably didn't say this); black (Jesus did not say this). The idea is, of course, borrowed from red-letter editions of the Bible, in which all the words (supposedly) spoken by Jesus are in red. Alongside the text is a commentary in which the editors (Robert Funk and Roy Hoover) explain the reasoning behind each decision (determined by the votes of members of the Seminar). The commentary more or less follows through on the assumptions delineated in the introduction, whose shakey and uncritical nature we have seen. The format is a little difficult to follow, for the comments are added in between chunks of text, rather than added in footnotes, which makes it a little difficult to read the whole text.<br />The format, however, is the least of the Jesus Seminar's problems. I have no objection to historical criticism, and wish anytrue scholar luck in his quest to find the \\"historical Jesus\\". It is not the unconservative conclusions which I find so reprehensible here: It is the flawed methodology and the blindness of the Seminar to its (ironically) uncritical and unreliable assumptions and presuppositions. If this is serious scholarship, I am afraid it seems we are in an academic climate where anything goes.	2002-12-02
US	47370464	R3LHO7ZIZUXW78	0691089582	187738126	The Book of Jerry Falwell: Fundamentalist Language and Politics.	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Fascinating	Harding does not attempt an expose, per se, although readers will be disturbed, perplexed and perhaps shocked by some of this book. For her research, the author immersed herself in the world of evangelical fundamentalism, getting to know the people, even becoming (in a sense) an insider herself. The fruit of her time is The Book of Jerry Falwell, an exploration of the way words are used in the fundamentalist &quot;subculture&quot; (though I am not sure if this is a designation Harding herself uses), specifically in the ministry of one of modern fundamentalism's key figures, televangelist Jerry Falwell.<br />The author's analysis rings true to life, for over the course of the past couple of years I have been on a pilgrimage away from my fundamentalist past, and can identify with many of her observations. For example, nowadays in conversation with fundamentalists I find I have to adapt my language and way of thinking to their language and way of thinking. When I have connected my worldview (still Christian, just not fundamentalist) to theirs, I can start to understand. Similarly, I find myself having to suspend my own mental system when talking to my new-age friends, and learn how words work in the world they inhabit. For this reason, Harding's perceptive commentary on fundamentalist political and religious speech resonates with my own perceptions, and thus emerges as fascinating, incisive and authentic.	2002-11-29
US	47370464	RQDVEOUT1M379	0198601735	69619018	The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Indispensable volume	This is one to have at hand right there by your desk all the time, ready to dip into whenever you get stuck looking for the source of a famous quote. Or one to have in the bathroom, for entertainment during long sessions on the toilet. Or on the bedstand for some light nighttime reading. The updated version seems good enough, though perhaps some might detect a bias towards the English when it comes to the newer entries (but then, it is an English publication). I was also disappointed with a few ommissions (I looked for Keith Waterhouse and Terry Johnson, both British comedy writers, and both sadly absent), but then you can't please all of the people all of the time (...hang on a sec... hmm, looks like that's a garbled version of something Abe Lincoln said... Gee, this thing is useful!). The listings at the top corner of each page are a little annoying, since they give the Christian name first, thus making it slightly more difficult to find something alphabetically, but this is just one minor fault in an otherwise excellently presented publication.	2002-11-09
US	47370464	RSB23PWUTCTL3	1852303670	132395888	Casting the First Stone: The Hypocrisy of Religious Fundamentalism and Its Threat to Society	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Fairly perceptive critique	RA Gilbert's book claims to be a \\"startling expose\\". It is hardly exciting or novel enough to qualify for such an overexaggerated description. Nor does it particularly live up to its title - it doesn't really say a great deal about hypocrisy as such (though it might be inferred), and by the author's own admission it critiques the behaviour of only one segment (albeit a large one, perhaps) of (Protestant) fundamentalism. It is, however, generally insightful and accurate.<br />The main focus of Gilbert's book is on the attitude demonstrated by many fundamentalist Christians towards other religions and groups, but mostly practitioners of the (notoriously difficult-to-define) \\"New Age\\" and \\"occult\\". He details practices and arguments with which I am well acquainted: I spent most of my Christian life in a milieu where Christians felt it their duty to picket psychic fairs, to publicly oppose any expression of other religions, faiths or spiritual beliefs (usually in the belief that government were morally bound to take their side), and to be among the foremost of those propogating any one of endless myths and sensational fabrications about Satanism and witchcraft. Gilbert competently assails the legends and folklore that make up fundamentalist opposition to \\"demonic forces\\". In this I am with him.<br />He is noticeably sympathetic to New Age practices, and gives short shrift to skeptics who deny such things on a scientific basis. This is perhaps the fatal blow to his critique: He gives alternative health and spirituality a credibility that would make skeptics wince, and this enthusiasm frequently sends him off on a tangent, with criticisms of newspapers and medical doctors (among others) that take him somewhat away from his original \\"expose\\" of fundamentalism. This line of attack detracts from his central thesis and, I fear, is rather detrimental to his overall credibility, at least in the eyes of some.<br />Nevertheless, I wish all fundamentalists would read this and learn from it. Perhaps no other aspect of fundamentalism has annoyed me so much as the gullibility demonstrated in the immediate swallowing of every morsel of gossip that might possibly provide useful ammunition against \\"the enemy\\". Unfortunately for all of us, rebukes like Gilbert's tend to fall on deaf ears.	2002-10-30
US	47370464	R385G76NODMYUW	0415125413	718684574	Language: The Basics	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Excellent introduction to linguistics	This book is ideal for the layman coming to the study of language for the first time. I sympathize with another reviewer who protested that he wanted something a little less basic, but I was delighted to see that Trask foresaw this and offers a list of recommended reading at the end of each chapter, and then a short list of more in-depth books on the subject at the end of the book.<br />I must admit, I had a few chuckles as I read this book, though linguistics may not at first glance appear to be a likely subject for humour. I laughed more than once because language, perhaps like no other phenomenon, is so widely misunderstood, and discussed and dissected by ignoramuses in a way that defies all common sense (see Harry Blamires' &quot;Guide to Common Errors in English&quot; for a case in point). Trask has a hard time concealing his derision for the self-appointed gatekeepers of the English language (who wouldn't get the time of day from anyone who knew the first thing about linguistics), but does so humorously.<br />Trask has an accessible and pacey style that made reading the entire book in just two or three sittings seem effortless. One really gets a sense for the miracle of human language and its vast complexity. This simple introduction left me wanting more, and I was grateful that Trask pointed me to the right resources for satiating this desire. Yes, it is basic, but it is exactly what is called for for the first-time reader.	2002-10-25
US	47370464	R2AS2UYH4DMPVC	0304349410	622254893	Cassell Guide to Common Errors in English	Books	1	2	9	N	N	Facts???	Another reviewer refers to this book's &quot;facts&quot;. Facts??? Whose &quot;facts&quot; would those be? The facts according to WHOM? (Phew, narrowly escaped a grammatical error, there). There may indeed be some fascinating and interesting bits of information peppered throughout the book, but the overall thrust leaves me with no doubt that Blamires's (I put the extra &quot;s&quot; in there to appease those of the &quot;proper English&quot; ilk) understanding of language is seriously deficient.<br />The assumption underlying Blamires' nitpicking guide to supposed &quot;errors&quot; is that language ought to follow a pre-existing set of rules and conventions in order to be &quot;correct&quot;. The result is that Blamires can claim that all kinds of sentence constructions and word-usages are &quot;wrong&quot;, even if only a handful of speakers of everyday English follow the &quot;rules&quot;. An example of this pretentious and nonsensical approach to language is found on the very first page, on which Blamires castigates those who use &quot;able&quot; and &quot;ability&quot; in reference to non-humans. What??? Does the fact that just about any native speaker of English uses &quot;able&quot; and &quot;ability&quot; in this way have no bearing on it? If the answer is &quot;no&quot;, what then does have a bearing on it? Some magical platonic principle of language use?<br />Most of Blamires' (hee-hee, snuck that misuse of the apostrophe in there) examples seem to rely on an appeal to some unwritten rule of which most English-speakers are evidently ignorant. This being the case, what ancient unwritten (and unprovable) rule could possibly be more important than the facts of everyday, common usage? Blamires is clearly living in cloud-cuckoo land. Whatever language he is trying to defend, it is clearly not the English language with which any of us are familiar.	2002-10-09
US	47370464	R3RGOI6NRY3M4G	1903111358	691179524	English Gothic: A Century of Horror Cinema	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Exceptionally lucid and informative	After ploughing through the very disappointing Inside Hammer by Hammer veteran Jimmy Sangster, I was delighted at the brilliance of this volume. Rigby traces British horror films right back to their genesis, with the emphasis rightly placed on the period from about the mid-'40s to the mid-'70s (which period is also covered by David Pirie's A Heritage of Horror, now sadly out of print). The commentary is a skillful blend of background information on key productions, synopsis and critical commentary. There is a good sense of historical flow, as Rigby tells the story of the British horror film in chronological sequence, rather than focussing separate chapters on different genres or directors, say. Thus the reader is made alert to the historical and sociological context, a dimension lacking in lesser books on the same subject.<br />The style and format is at once readable and also entertaining. Though it is possible, even advisory (and certainly enjoyable), to read the entire book from cover to cover, its format (the chronological order, along with side bars on every page giving details of key films) makes it a great reference tool to dip into from time to time. English Gothic is without doubt one of the finest, most compelling and exciting books I have come across on this subject.	2002-10-04
US	47370464	RZF07LET2HARY	190311120X	364887061	Inside Hammer: Behind the Scenes at the Legendary Film Studio	Books	2	10	10	N	N	Tepid	One gets the impression that the publishers of this book were solely reliant on the prospect of a few thousand die-hard fans going ga-ga and drooling over the opportunity to hear one of Hammer's great stalwarts reminisce about the studio's halcyon days. For it is certain that much of this book couldn't entertain anyone other than a starry-eyed follower of the House of Horror, one who hangs on any and every word uttered by one of the studio's greats. Much of the commentary is simply mind-numbing in its banality. Sangster's style is casual and colloquial, which becomes very irritating at points. One chapter begins, \\"This is my favourite film of all time. No. Let me rephrase that. It is the favourite one of MY films. There are many other films I have enjoyed more, but this is the favourite film that I have made.\\" The book frequently sinks to this level of redundancy and dullness. On another occasion, he comments to the effect that a particular film is the greatest Hammer ever made, only to say at the end of the chapter something like, \\"Not the greatest, but nothing to be ashamed of.\\" Comments about other people are often trite, and evidence that Sangster was stuck for words (typical would be comments like, \\"Terence Fisher. Nice guy. Very nice guy.\\"). Did anyone bother to edit this book? On the other hand, if it had been edited down to what was useful, necessary or interesting, it would surely have been a very slim volume.<br />Another problem with the book is that it is patently obvious that Sangster has considerably less regard for Hammer's gothic horrors (and, after all, that is what most of the fans want to hear about) compared to his enthusiasm for the psychological thrillers. His disinterest in, say, the Dracula and Frankenstein series shows.<br />There are a few morsels to be savoured among an otherwise mediocre offering. There are some interesting stills, and many of the incidents and details Sangster recalls are fascinating. However, they are too few and far between to save a tediously pedestrian work.	2002-10-02
US	47370464	R35NGSOLREYLOU	0664258034	782264582	The Remaking of Evangelical Theology	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Insightful historical and theological overview	I could not recommend a more accessible, readable, and insightful survey of 20th century (American) evangelicalism. Dorrien takes the reader through the early days of fundamentalism, and traces evangelicalism from the days of Princeton seminary, through the foundation of Fuller Seminary (perhaps one of the most seminal events in evangelicalism's recent history), the disputes over inerrancy in the '60s, '70s, and '80s, and the emerging progressive elements of evangelicalism. He covers in detail the major evangelical thinkers, ranging from Warfield and Machen in the early fundamentalist era, to Henry and Ramm in the era of 'new evangelicalism,' through to Pinnock and Bloesch in more recent times.<br />Writing as (I think) a theological liberal, Dorrien gives a surprisingly sympathetic portrayal of evangelicalism's development. He is honest about the strengths and weaknesses of the movement, with no particular axe of his own to grind. The Remaking of Evangelical Theology represents a far more even-handed approach than some anti-fundamentalist polemics to be written in recent years, such as that written some twenty years ago by Professor James Barr. In an interview five or six years ago, Barr insisted that evangelicalism has still not progressed since he wrote his earlier critique. Barr paints a picture of evangelicalism as a monolithic movement still clinging to the indefensible inerrancy doctrine of the sort propogated by Harold Lindsell. Dorrien's more nuanced and honest look at the historical development of recent evangelical thought, however, reveals a multi-layered movement in the midst of progression.	2002-09-24
US	47370464	R3MXDN39VQLPFX	0061074292	387203276	The Runaway Bunny	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Enchanting, love-filled children's tale	This charming story affected me deeply. During a sermon on the love and grace of God, I announced to the congregation that I would be reading from one of the most profound and stimulating works of theology yet produced, before retelling this timeless tale of a mother bunny's unfailing love for her 'little bunny'. Here is pure love illustrated in the simplest way: a fable of a love that just won't let go.	2002-09-24
US	47370464	R1DO2GPFYGIYR6	0060675365	693359168	Why Christianity Must Change or Die: A Bishop Speaks to Believers In Exile	Books	2	28	38	N	N	Unconvincing case for the abandonment of theism	Bishop Spong describes himself as a 'believer in exile'. Likening his experience to the ancient Israelites, who found their traditional perception of God challenged when their expectations fell apart in exile, Spong asks how one might maintain Christian faith in an age when the traditional framework in which it was once understood is no longer tenable. His main contention is that theism is simply obsolete. We no longer share the pre-scientific worldview of the Bible writers, and therefore cannot accept the theistic framework which stemmed from their experience of the divine, namely, the idea that God is an external, supreme, omnipotent, omniscient, personal being. Traditionalists will assume that the only alternative to theism is to resign oneself to a-theism, but not so, argues Spong. He contends that the reality of the divine presence found in Jesus which gave birth to the myths and legends of Christianity can be rescued from its trappings, and that we can still find meaning in Jesus. This meaning is an existential encounter with the 'ground of being' (a phrase coined by his mentor, Paul Tillich), a mysterious and ineffable force which challenges us to leap into authentic living, loving and being. According to Spong, this is what the early disciples encountered in Jesus, but they could find no other way to describe this reality than the myths which, two millennia later, traditional Christians are still clinging to.<br />Spong's contention is that Christianity must either reject theism, and see the Jesus experience through new eyes, or else face the fact that Christianity itself must die. It is simply no longer credible to believe in the Christian faith as it has been taught, he claims. Spong's book takes us on a journey through all the traditional theological territory of Christendom, systematically dismantling every cardinal doctrine of historic Christianity. By the end of the book, virtually nothing is left intact: prayer; the parenthood of God ; sin, redemptionand salvation; the deity of Christ; the resurrection. All of these are either radically redefined or else abandoned altogether. One question remains, however, which Spong tries desperately, yet utterly unconvincingly, to answer: How can what remains of the Christian faith, after such radical alteration of all its traditional tenets, be called 'Christianity' with any sense of honesty or integrity? There is no convincing reason given why anyone should retain belief in Jesus or 'Christ'. Spong's supposed reason is the conviction that God (defined in his own, non-theistic terms) can be seen more clearly in Jesus than in any other figure, and that through him one might see how it is possible to enter into the same existential experience of the divine reality. There is no discernible reason, however, why Jesus should be seen as the 'God bearer' any more than any other historical figure; why such an obscure figure as the 'historical Jesus' (obscure because, after Spong's historical criticism has dissected the gospel accounts of Jesus, there is very little left on which to base a convincing portrait of Jesus) should take precedence over any other potential spiritual leader or icon; or why this newly-defined faith cannot exist apart from the person of Jesus.<br />There is also a strong bias in Spong's use of the metaphor of 'exile' to describe his spiritual journey. He describes Israel's exile thus:<br />\\"These Jews had once believed that God might punish them for their waywardness but that God would not destroy them. They could believe that no longer. They once believed they were a specially chosen people...They once believed that God had instructed them on where to live and how to worship...They once believed that God dwelled in Jerusalem and ruled over Judah...They once believed that God could hear their prayers...They once believed that they had a destiny and a future...They once believed that God could and would care for them...They could not sing the Lord's song again, for they were in a strange and devastating exile, and in that exile the God they had once served lost all meaning. This God, quite frankly, could no longer be God for them.\\" (Chapter Two: The Meaning of Exile and How We Got There, p28f)<br />I wonder if this qualifies as revisionist history. Those of the Jewish faith most certainly did NOT give up on their personal God when they were in exile; on the contrary, far from abandoning their faith in a God who cared for them, who heard their pleas, and who promised to give them a future and a destiny, they clung onto the hope of God's compassion for them, of the promise of restoration and salvation, and the knowledge that the God of their fathers had not left them. This story culminated in God's arrival in the person of Christ, and millions today find that they can well cope with living in the twenty-first century at the same time that they worship a personal God through Jesus Christ, despite Spong's insistence that such a way of life is impossibly naïve and doomed to extinction. Christianity has survived this long with belief in a supernatural, external, supreme, and personal deity, even against the rising tide of modern science and knowledge, which Spong feels so sure marks certain death for Christian theism. What makes him so confident that it cannot go on surviving?<br />The tone of this book is markedly different from some of Spong's earlier writings. I found Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism to be gracious and conciliatory in tone; here it seems Spong has become a little bolder and more noticeably disdainful not just of fundamentalists, but of theists in general. In Why Christianity Must Change or Die, the sweep of his sword is broader to include anyone who holds onto the ostensibly bygone notions of a personal, supreme being. Spong doesn't seem to realize, however, that his condescending attitude towards theists and his attempt to bully them into accepting his own version of non-theism is no less imperialistic and arrogant than the conservative attempts to 'convert the heathen' he so despises.	2002-07-18
US	47370464	R1AW0DV341P67O	080102241X	452085147	Reel Spirituality: Theology and Film in Dialogue (Engaging Culture)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Evangelical theologian recognizes a wideness in God's grace	This volume by Fuller Seminary professor Robert K. Johnston is a readable introduction to film criticism from a thoroughly Christian perspective. Johnston is evangelical in outlook, and yet does not sacrifice his love for cinema to a fearful, fundamentalistic disdain for human culture. Rather, from the outset, he affirms the Christian truth that God's grace is to be found everywhere (what theologians have called 'common grace') and that cinema can be an occasion for a 'revelatory event'. Just as all life is 'sacramental' (that is, every aspect of the world has the potential to show us God), so the movies can help us to transcend to a deeper understanding of God and humanity.<br />Johnston rightly affirms that a film must first be approached on its own terms (as opposed to viewing it through the lens of a preconceived agenda). Once the audience has participated in the world of the film, then is the appropriate moment to begin the dialogue with theology. For this reason, Johnston's approach is to walk us through the basics of film criticism before applying that to the Christian study of film. On a few occasions, I worried that the author was taking us too far away from the book's stated intention (ie. a book about theology and film in dialogue), but Johnston always seems to be able to bring the material back round to assessing its relevance to the task of theological application.<br />His examples are far-ranging: theologically, his sources draw from every stream of Christian tradition; his choice of films to be analyzed is eclectic. He frequently homes in on a specific film (eg. Shane, Smoke Signals, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) or set of films (eg. the films of Peter Weir) in order to illuminate and illustrate the points he makes. Overall, Johnston exhibits a healthy attitude towards film, and is a breath of fresh air in an evangelicalism that too often regards films with suspicion and a superficiality that is likely to oversimplify issues of content and theme (such as sexuality and violence).<br />This book helped me to clarify my own method in approaching film. I have long been a lover of the cinema, and have sometimes found it hard to escape the incongruity of some aspects of this with voices from my fundamentalist past. Johnston is a man after my own heart, and seems able to encapsulate my feelings about film and how the movie experience is essential to the formation of my theology. In one chapter, Johnston addresses this role of cinema in theological method, and provides useful comparisons with various models of theological method (such as the Wesleyan quadrilateral).<br />I can also credit this book with changing some of my views. For example, I have long had a suspicion of mainstream cinema, almost amounting to a disdain at times. Johnston showed me the fallacy of associating commercialism with artlessness, however. After all, he reasons, didn't Michelangelo paint the Sistine Chapel on commission? In a sense, my aversion to mainstream cinema (or, perhaps more accurately, the mainstream of the mainstream) was a kind of misconceived snobbery. Johnston's appreciation of film from every corner of the film industry helped me to see my own short-sightedness in this regard.<br />This is a book I would recommend not just for film-lovers, but for theologians whose knowledge of film may not be particularly wide, but are willing to let the pursuit of the knowledge of God lead them into dialogue with other possible sources of inspiration, namely, the cinema. Johnston presents an accessible overview of film criticism and, in doing so, demonstrates how films can be, in a broad, but real way, means of grace for a Christian wanting to let the knowledge of Christ invade his experience of his culture.	2002-07-10
US	47370464	R17G3FKETSJZ58	0192839314	398754274	The Thirty-Nine Steps (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ripping Yarn	A 'ripping good yarn' are the best words I can think of to describe this story. It is simply a tremendously thrilling and entertaining adventure. It is fun, involving, and easily read in just a few sittings. Buchan's classic tale takes the reader on an escapade beginning in London and continuing as the hero, Richard Hannay, dashes across the Scottish Highlands in his frantic attempt to elude the police. The little insights into Hannay's random thoughts during the early scenes of the book are fantastically witty, and those familiar with Hitchcock's film version will not be able to avoid hearing the voice of Robert Donat coming through. Similarly, some of the oddball characters and amusing situations Hannay finds himself in throughout the course of the novel provide light relief to a story of espionage, murder and political intrigue (to coin an old cliche). Read it. It'll tickle you.	2002-06-20
US	47370464	R2UELRA88JKL04	0719536324	456436568	John Betjeman: Collected Poems	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Essential volume of England's greatest 20th century poet	Betjeman is one of the most enduring and endearing of Britain's poets. I have an old volume that regularly comes down from the shelf to both inspire and amuse me. His verse always has something to say, even on fifth, sixth or seventh reading.<br />There is a down-to-earth quality to Betjeman's poems and the themes he covers. He is realistic about love, faith, life and human beings. Some of his most amusing verses poke fun at characters that one gets the impression might easily be reflections of himself (see Seaside Golf, for example); his ability to laugh at himself certainly adds an air of ease and approachability to his work. Nevertheless, he is also able to deal with thorny subjects without trivializing the difficult questions they provoke, even if he often does so with a rather wicked sense of humour. For me, the most fascinating of his poems deal with God, faith and religion. Betjeman was an Anglican, and he is not shy about his faith, nor about acknowledging its shortcomings. In Westminster Abbey takes the form of a lady's wartime prayer, and is a brilliant and witty expose of religious hypocrisy; On a Portrait of a Deaf Man is a heartfelt psalmic reflection on the problem of God and evil; Senex is a hilarious confession of struggle with sexual temptation.<br />Elsewhere, Betjeman treats sexuality with a candour that shocks, and firmly dispells any lingering suspicions that he is merely a fat, jovial and reserved old Englishman (see Late-Flowering Lust). At other times, he offers playful reflections on love, lust, romance and courtship, as in A Subaltern's Love Song or The Olympic Girl.<br />His attempts at blank verse are delightful, and eminently readable, or preferably listenable (English readers will recall the documentaries he made for British television some twenty or thirty years ago, for which he recited many of his poems, including the charming Beside the Seaside, included here). He is at home musing on the things that he loves most: people and places. Many (probably most) of his poems received their inspiration, and take their titles, from places mainly in and around the English coast. He writes of them with an obvious affection.<br />It seems that Betjeman has not received the attention he deserves on this side of the Atlantic (US/Canada). His books are few and far between in second-hand bookshops, and my review of his collected poems seems to be the first to appear on Amazon. This is regrettable. I am sure that those who take the time to explore Betjeman's world will find they are richly rewarded; his enthusiasm for his subjects, and his gentle and avuncular manner, surely elicit an appeal that goes beyond national boundaries. This comprehensive collection comes highly recommended.	2002-05-10
US	47370464	R2N1F0D0ZA9EQT	0060988843	940512541	Halliwell's Film and Video Guide 2002 (Hallowell's Film & Video Guide, 2002)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Useful but flawed	On the positive side, this is perhaps the most comprehensive of film guides available. Not only do Halliwell and Walker cover most films released on the western market, but they also give more production details than any other similar volume. As a reference work, it is definitely worth having at hand.<br />The reviews themselves are interesting, though each is limited to one or two sentences, and the opportunity for comment is too often squandered away on petty sarcasms that miss the mark. There are a few inconsistencies apparent. Some films are awarded two or three stars (out of a maximum of 4) with little rationale offered. For example, A Room with a View is alotted 3 stars before being (apparently) dismissed by a description of it as a lacklustre drama that might have been made for TV, but which might be enjoyed by those starved of entertainment. The lamentable 'Independence Day' is given one star, whilst the comparable, yet far superior, Armageddon is awarded none. One of the great British pictures of the 1960s, Billy Liar, is given a well-deserved three stars (so far so good), which then threatens to become almost meaningless when the grossly inferior (though still worthy) British comedy of the same decade, Carry On Up the Khyber, is given the same. Why these inconsistencies? Perhaps the last of those can be explained by the fact that Halliwell himself didn't even think that the Carry On films were decent enough to warrant individual entries, whereas Walker later reneged on his behalf and not only gave them their own reviews, but awarded many of them one or two stars (quite insane, on the whole, given some of the excellent films not even considered worthy of a single star).<br />The verdict: useful reference book; always interesting to read other people's opinions, but many of the opinions expressed in here are severely off the mark; lastly, I suspect most of the flaws can be attributed to John Walker's editing following Halliwell's death.	2002-04-21
US	47370464	R1EWC3EB77GR24	0877881561	371226827	Flirting With the World: A Challenge to Loyalty	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Prophetic Challenge	What is worldliness? For too long, evangelicals have had a faulty concept of what it is to be worldly; they have strained at gnats and swallowed camels. Worldliness, to many Christians, means watching movies, listening to secular music, going into pubs and smoking cigarettes. Meanwhile, whilst they are busy checking off their list of dos and don'ts (the gnats), they swallow the camels of materialism, pride, lust and greed without even realizing it. White exposes the carnal ways that are so often overlooked, and highlights the attitudes prevalent in Christians that betray a deep-seated worldliness.<br />He is not afraid to challenge many of the sacred cows of evangelical piety and values. As always, his words have a prophetic edge (see 'Money Isn't God' for another fine example of his writings), hard-hitting and cutting straight to the point, yet at the same time, full of compassion. He speaks with the authoritative voice of an Isaiah or an Amos, sounding a clear call for the church to get back to the way of Jesus. He is a conservative evangelical with an acute awareness of the social implications of the gospel: a rare combination, admittedly.<br />The book covers attitudes to wealth, sexuality, patriotism and many other pertinent topics, taking the attention away from minor behavioural issues that so often occupy the minds of Christians, and focusing on the issues that matter more to God: justice, mercy, selflessness and, as the title suggests, loyalty to God in a world characterized by attitudes God despises.	2002-02-22
US	47370464	R3UTFCVPNNJKTJ	0679600892	441030650	The Thurber Carnival (Modern Library)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Thurber's humour belongs in a category of its own	This compendium will give a thoroughly entertaining taste of one of the twentieth century's greatest humourists. Thurber's imagination and wit have an appeal all their own.<br />This anthology brings together a number of his short stories as well as selections from amongst his modern fables and cartoons. 'What Do You Mean, It Was Brillig?' and 'The Night the Bed Fell' are two excellent and hilarious tales that serve well as an introduction to Thurber's surreal world. Don't read these in public unless you are prepared to draw attention to yourself - they will have you laughing out loud. In his fables, modelled after Aesop, but with a twentieth-century bent, Thurber delights in catching the reader unaware with his own particular brand of irony.<br />The cartoons are ingenious. Sometimes you will read a cartoon in a newspaper and it will make you laugh. Go back to it again and it no longer has the same effect. Thurber's cartoons, on the other hand, are so utterly inspired (I do not exaggerate), that they will improve upon a second and third look. You will discover subtle nuances you didn't perceive before. His funniest offerings draw on the theme of marriage, and frequently involve the chasm between a husband and wife trapped in a marriage out of which the love and romance has long since disappeared. You will be left baffled as to where exactly Thurber came across such a natural talent for finding (and exploiting) the absurd in everything.	2002-01-25
US	47370464	R14HZB8D3MILHK	015610850X	998334635	The Beast in Me and Other Animals	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More delights from Thurber's crazy world	The Thurber Carnival is really the must-have offering from the Thurber canon, but this book has some delights of its own. His assessment of the psychology behind his cartoons for The New Yorker is typical Thurber, the man at his sharpest. His gallery of wildlife sketches is as believable as it is ridiculous (his portrait of a gloat standing by a patch of I-told-you-sos being  just one example).	2002-01-25
US	47370464	RNL2036F01DHO	0830815171	709006905	New Dimensions in Evangelical Thought : Essays in Honor of Millard J. Erickson	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Disappointing with a few highlights	This compendium of essays by various conservative scholars is a fairly disappointing offering. Despite the promise offered by the title, there is little new in here at all. Most of the authors merely retread old doctrines without adding anything of interest. For example, J. Rodman Williams' chapter, entitled, 'New Dimensions in Charismatic Theology,' simply gives a [rather pedestrian] rendition of the Pentecostal distinctives and enlightens us with no further food for thought. Carl F. Henry and Thomas Schreiner both provide well-researched summaries of the last few decades of New Testament scholarship, but where are the 'new dimensions' promised us? They have little to say that one can't read in any run-of-the-mill textbook.<br />Having said that, there are a few highlights. Wolfhart Pannenberg is a welcome contributor, coming from a less conservative standpoint, discussing society and culture. Alister McGrath bravely raises a few issues regarding new interpretations of salvation and redemption for different cultural contexts. Clark Pinnock's essay on theological method is one of the few chapters that has something new and challenging to say, and, indeed, one of the few that takes a genuinely self-critical look at evangelical theology. Such contributions come as a breath of fresh air in an otherwise dull volume.	2002-01-04
US	47370464	R1ADKBH2C2RSKB	068971310X	712926184	The Wind in the Willows	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Magical	Kenneth Grahame's classic children's tale can be enjoyed by people of all ages. As we follow the rural adventures of Ratty, Mole, Toad, and Badger, we encounter moments of earnest emotion, and intense moments that brush the depths of what it is to be human. For Grahame's characters, taken from amongst the familiar animals that inhabit the English countryside, have all the vulnerability and sensitivity of real human beings, and we genuinely warm to them as together they learn life's lessons.<br />The early scenes of Ratty and Mole's boat trip and picnic are a delight, and the story progresses into absolute hilarity as we meet Toad and are introduced to his crazy adventures and ill-fated escapades, as well as his incorrigible, over-inflated sense of self-importance. The most humourous episodes involve the wise and avuncular Badger's attempts to thwart Toad's hairbrained schemes and his seemingly endless conceitedness. Toad never seems to learn his lesson, and he remains a tremendously loveable rogue, though a rogue nevertheless.<br />Ernest Shepard's brilliant illustrations will only add to what is an incredibly touching, joyful, and involving experience.	2001-12-27
US	47370464	R4FUN47J38ID5	0192833278	496454716	The Diary of a Nobody (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Thoroughly Entertaining	The 'Nobody' of the title is one Charles Pooter, an ordinary middle-class Londoner in the late 19th century who reasons that if Pepys and Johnson can write diaries to entertain people, why should his diary be any less exciting? And so we are amused by such characters as Pooter's unpredictable son Lupin, his good friends Cumming and Gowing, and not least Pooter himself, whose most fascinating and hilarious trait is his tendency to write people off as lacking in humour when they fail to laugh at his occasional pun, whilst exhibiting a distinct lack of humour himself when it comes to some of the more trivial aspects of life.<br />Pooter's descriptions of the mundane, as well as the occasionally unusual, happenings of daily life are told in extraordinary detail, which brings a real vividness to some of the amusing predicaments our friend finds himself in. And he really is our friend by the end of the book. There is a certain air of pathos about this man that proves quite endearing. His Victorian prudery and sensibility provokes much laughter (reading this on the train to London, I had to put it down a couple of times to avoid drawing attention to myself), yet also provokes a certain affection for a character who is as tragic as he is admirable. That is, despite some of his more pathetic idionsyncracies, the warmth and genuineness of his character shine through.	2001-11-27
US	47370464	RXDSK3SQ0FODM	068471910X	168303687	The Shaking of The Foundations	Books	3	22	29	N	N	Accessible Tillich	Tillich is by no means the most accessible of contemporary theologians. However, this collection of his sermons speaks immediately to everyman. He speaks perceptively of the dilemmas and anxieties of human existence, pointing emphatically to God as the source of salvation from human frustration and guilt. He delivers poignant critiques of modernistic attitudes, distancing himself firmly from the old liberal school of the 19th century and destroying the enlightenment illusion of progress, directing our hopes to God instead.<br />I must confess that it was against my better judgment that I allowed this little collection of sermons to affect me: I am an evangelical, whereas Tillich belongs to a decidedly more liberal stream of theology to say the least! This is not to say he does not speak like an evangelical, just that I couldn't escape the feeling of intellectual dishonesty as I enjoyed Tillich's writings with the nagging suspicion that he didn't mean anything like the same thing by his use of particular theological terms as I mean. A read of Tillich's far less digestable Systematic Theology will enlighten you as to his philosophy of symbolism in religious language. He clearly maintains that the Christian faith alone can exclusively lay claim to truth; yet the language of Christian doctrine, whilst irreplaceable, is only symbolic, participating in what it represents yet, nevertheless, incapable of objectively describing what it represents. The evangelical might well benefit from reading 'Shaking of the Foundations' if he can overlook this tension; the non-conservative will not need to.<br />Tillich was a bundle of contradictions, in a sense. He argues passionately for the truth of the Christian gospel, yet he was hardly ever known to go to church, except to preach, perhaps. He is also reputed to have had a string of affairs. I suppose the greatest comfort one can draw from that is that Tillich certainly knew what he was talking about when, along with St. Paul, he affirmed the pervading despair and tension that characterizes human existence.<br />The most impressing sermons contained in the book are: 'Shaking of the Foundations' in which the preacher lambasts the naive optimism of the enlightenment and prophetically challenges modernism with the warning of a 'shaking of the foundations' which will expose the bankruptcy of confidence in modern progress, leaving the (E)ternal standing; 'The Witness of the Spirit to the Spirit' on the subject of the Christian's assurance; and 'You Are Accepted', a life-giving exposition of Paul's thought on sin and grace in Romans 5:20: here also is Tillich at his most perceptive and penetrating.	2001-11-14
US	47370464	RTRA6ULIV2I5U	0849914086	663529380	We Believe: Recovering the Essentials of the Apostles' Creed	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Captivating Exposition of the Creed (with Reformed Bias)	This is an excellent book from the ever thought-provoking Michael Horton. He takes the reader through each section of the Apostles' Creed, expounding on the doctrinal significance of each, relating each one to its implications for life and thought. He defends traditional teaching at every point against modern reinterpretations, contemporary philosophies and objections.<br />Horton is incredibly readable, offering excellent illustrations and drawing on sources from every tradition of philosophy and religion. His apologetic remarks are generally succinct and compelling. The chapter entitled, 'What if God became a man?' gives a grand overview of the whole history of God's redemption, from Genesis to Revelation, which will have every gospel believer on the edge of their seat.<br />One of his strongest points (and this is a feature of all his books) is his zeal for the outworking of the Christian faith in the world. He does not reduce Christianity to something wholly belonging to the 'sacred' sphere, but applies gospel truth to secular life. His concern is to see gospel doctrine impact believers here and now.<br />It will not take someone of the ilk of Sherlock Holmes to detect a Reformed bias. I have strong affinities with the Reformed stream of evangelicalism, though my theology would probably be better described as Arminian. However, Horton's own perspective was not enough to put me off. There is enough of the gospel in there, brilliantly expounded, to be of benefit to any truly evangelical reader.	2001-10-13
US	47370464	R1VCGIY1XGSREU	080106290X	160204274	God of the Possible: A Biblical Introduction to the Open View of God	Books	4	72	80	N	N	Valiant Attempt at a Popular Defense of Open Theism	Boyd has produced perhaps the most readable and accessible defense of open theism thus far in the debate. He covers most of the biblical and philosophical aspects in a manner that is easy to comprehend for the untrained reader.<br />Boyd's main thesis is that the Bible presents its readers with two motifs: the openness motif (that the future consists of possibilities rather than certainties) and the motif of future determinism (that some things are certain to happen). He begins by examining the determinism motif, and gives a representative survey of those Scriptures usually proffered by classical theists to suggest that God's knowledge of the future is exhaustive in every detail. He is generally about 50/50 on target with his observations, and one gets the feeling that one would be hard-pressed to eke out of the biblical information available that every single aspect of the future is foreknown (or even predetermined) by God in advance. Boyd is careful, on the whole, to look at the context of statements about God's knowledge of the future, and convincingly demonstrates in a number of instances that what is being affirmed is not God's exhaustive foreknowledge but God's certainty about the plans he has designed to carry out.<br />He is on shakier ground when it comes to examining the stories of Peter and Judas, and he needs to go further to explain how God could know with absolute certainty what action they would take, since everything Boyd has said so far in his thesis would seem to suggest that God could only be certain of the likelihood (albeit a very high probability) of things happening the way he predicted.<br />Boyd explains well how future settledness and future openness work together, and how the two motifs are adequate to explain much of what the Bible reveals about God's sovereignty and foreknowledge. God sets limits within which we are to exercise free will, and this therefore gives him knowledge of a particular breadth of different possibilities. He sets certain parameters which condition the scope of human freedom (therefore some things are determined), but within those limits there are possibilities (therefore some of the future is open).<br />He goes on to examine some of the passages that point to future openness. He demonstrates adequately that the motif is definitely there in Scripture. However, to his detriment, he tends to go overboard and find the motif where it really isn't there. For example, when God asks the question, on more than one occasion, 'How long will...' the most obvious thought to occur to the reader is that what he is saying is rhetorical (a clear understanding of language acknowledges that grammatical structure does not always equal function). If Boyd is to claim otherwise, the burden of proof is upon him. He makes this error on a few occasions. The other major observation about this section is that Boyd's style, though comprehensible, becomes rather pedantic, even patronizing. There is an excess of question marks and italics as the author labors the point that the openness motif is incompatible with traditional assumptions about God's foreknowledge. He is generally justified in his points, but his manner becomes rather tiresome.<br />By the time he gets onto describing the practical advantages of holding to an open theism, Boyd has done a sufficient job to convince the reader that something along the lines of an open view of God is required by Scripture. He reinforces time and again, and quite sincerely, I think, that it is the study of Scripture that has led him, primarily, to adopt the open view. He highlights some compelling advantages to believing open theism, and does a good job of presenting it as an attractive option which neither limits God, nor takes away from His glory. However, on attempting to use open theism as a solution to the problem of evil, he fails to interact with another theme of Scripture, that God will ordain 'evil' within the scope of his plans. In discussing Job, hecasually dismisses the thought that God was responsible for what happened to Job, that it was all in his plan, and labels those who suggest such things 'Job's comforters'. However, was it not Job himself who acknowledged God's hand in what happened, and was not Job said to be blameless in what he said of God? Using the example of an acquaintance who underwent much suffering, Boyd castigates those who suggested it might be part of God's plan to shape her or teach her, and says this would make God a pretty lousy teacher. However, if Boyd's system is right, who is he to make such a judgment? Surely, if we have free will, God can well ordain such events to teach us things, or to shape us, and if it fails, the responsibility is solely down to our stubbornness or unwillingness to learn. Boyd seems to allow no room for suffering of that nature.<br />In the final (and strongest) section, he deals with objections. His ability to offer clear and vivid illustrations is his greatest asset here. He ably demonstrates that the openness debate is not about God's omniscience, for on both sides of the debate proponents affirm that God's knowledge is perfect and complete. The real issue is the content of that knowledge. That is, if the future is not really there to know, then it is no limitation to suggest that God does not have that knowledge. He also offers a useful defense of the open view of God's sovereignty, and makes it his aim to turn the tables on classical theists by suggesting that it is their conception of God that takes away from his glory, and limits his power.<br />The flaws are not big enough to challenge Boyd's overall thesis. His biblical and philosophical arguments are not easily dismissed, though it is admitted that his conclusions need fine-tuning. In the meantime, Boyd's book provides a useful resource while theologians battle it out to find a middle way.	2001-08-20
US	47370464	R3K5GVPOHM9SCV	0848808525	616788699	The Graduate	Books	3	43	46	N	N	Entertaining	This little novel really is quite good entertainment. Most of the book is just dialogue, reading much like a screenplay, so it is hardly going to rank up there as an all-time great novel. The conversations between Ben and his parents, Ben and Mrs Robinson etc. are tremendously witty, and I found myself laughing out loud on a number of occasions. Ben is a considerably darker character than he appears in the (perhaps superior) film version, being a cynical and disillusioned graduate going through a depression during which he loses interest in just about everything and resigns himself to a life of 'bumming around'. I think I would agree with Douglas Brode, the film critic who wrote of the movie that it was not a story about the generation gap, but rather about a young man who feels as alienated from his own peers as from his parents' generation. This comes across much more strongly in the book, and we also get a very strong sense of WHY he feels so distanced from the rest of his culture - the superficiality and hypocrisy of middle-class America (this is very much a book of its time) is evident, and the reader finds himself disgusted with the shallow attitudes of the milieu in which Benjamin finds himself.	2001-07-24
US	47370464	R1D85XJVK2S2IN	0802819346	332823538	The Worship of God: Some Theological, Pastoral, and Practical Reflections	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Helpful overview of significance of the Eucharist	I haven't had chance to read the whole of this work, yet, but have just read Martin's excellent chapter entitled 'The Table of the Lord', in preparation for a sermon I'll be preaching on the subject. He gives a thorough, though concise, overview of where scholarship has taken us in regards to understanding the biblical teaching on the Lord's Supper over the past 50 years or so, and summarises well the main biblical emphases of this important doctrine. I found it invaluable, stimulating both my mind and my heart.	2001-07-04
US	47370464	RYXC4F3DG2VGA	0768401941	217544588	God Chasers Series	Books	1	8	29	N	N	Put it down after the first chapter	This book has generated so much hype, and yet I fail to see how a Christian cannot be other than offended at the way Tenney treats the Bible. I picked this up to read, as it was recommended to me by a number of people, and I put it down again after the first chapter. He talks about the Bible as God's 'old love letters to the church' and defines a God-chaser as someone who is not content 'to camp out on some dusty old truth known to everyone'. I have listened to him preach at a conference and the same derogatory approach to the Bible and its doctrine was evident. So Scripture is not enough? Historic doctrine is inferior to Tenney's direct revelations? The teaching of Scripture is just dusty old truth, not the living word but 'old love letters'? Sorry, but this is nothing but plain mysticism. Tommy Tenney might think he has privileged access to new revelations and experiences of God above and beyond Scripture, but I don't accept it and have no intention of reading a book that so denigrates Scripture. Looks to me like nothing other than a revival of gnosticism.	2001-05-21
US	47370464	R3FOT92JUHY8SK	0849913020	135477240	In the Face of God	Books	3	29	34	N	N	A valuable corrective, yet not beyond correction itself	Horton, coming from a conservative reformed standpoint, seeks to expose the fleshly and man-centred nature of much of what occurs under the name of spirituality and worship in contemporary evangelicalism. He contrasts modern mysticism and religious experience, which entails a personal seeking after the immediate manifestation of God's glory, with the way of the cross, as mediated through word and sacrament. I am neither 'reformed' (if by that you mean Horton's own type of Calvinism) nor cessationist as Horton passionately is, and yet in this I recognised much of contemporary evangelicalism (particularly the charismatic/Pentecostal movement of which I am a part) and also saw the validity of his warnings. He pinpoints something that has been niggling me for a long time, namely, the legalism and man-centredness of the modern mystical approach to God. The sort of approach that Pentecostals and charismatics have inherited from 19th-century religion (holiness, revivalism etc.) has bred a new religion in which the 'breakthrough', 'living in victory' and 'surrender' have become new targets to aim for as a way of gauging personal success in God. Horton's criticisms of contemporary worship are pertinent, and he highlights well the demise of the objective work of Christ's atonement on the cross and the rise of immediate mystical experience in the language of our hymns.<br />Yet his treatment of some individuals is unfair. For example, though he is generally on target with his criticisms of Torrey's 'steps to receiving the baptism of the Holy Spirit', some of his inferences are petty and misrepresentative, eg. on the seventh step, 'faith', Horton comments: 'Faith? At the end? Until then everything the believer has done presumably has been accomplished without faith...' I suspect Horton has presumed wrongly, and faith is at the very centre of Torrey's eight steps, even if they can be criticised on other grounds. Also, I feel Horton somewhat misrepresents Wesley. He credits him with introducing William Law's mystical 'holiness' into the church, and yet in fact Wesley passionately rejected Law's approach after his conversion, and condemned that type of mysticism that that tried to lead people into 'holiness' without justification. Some of his comments about contemporary songs and singers are also out of place, eg. '...one should be far less worried about [Eric] Clapton than about Carman...ironically, Clapton at least has a song, 'Lord Have Mercy,' while Carman advocates the prosperity gospel and a curious Star Wars theology.' One might easily think that Carman never sings about God's mercy or the cross. Whilst there are legitimate criticisms to be made, jibes like these are just shallow and misleading.<br />He fails to explain adequately how the apostles and the early church were able to lay claim to signs and wonders, and what appear to be experiences of a more mystical nature than Horton seems prepared to allow. He to want to say that all such experiences are inherently tied up with a 'theology of glory', and yet it seems that the early church were able to get away with it unaffected. Horton ignores a major element of New Testament teaching by dismissing the possibility of 'experiences' of God.<br />Having said all this, however, the general thrust of Horton's book is clear. God is a holy God who is to be approached with reverence and fear through the one way he has made available to man - through the blood of Christ. Contemporary evangelicalism in many respects forgets this and pursues 'superior' experiences, experiences that are more 'direct', more 'intimate' and more 'fulfilling'. In the days of 'God-Chasing' (which this reviewer, at least, sees as just another brand of plain old mysticism that dispenses with the need for Scripture and sacrament), Horton's warning must be taken seriously.	2001-05-21
US	47370464	R54ZSXZVBCIRZ	0830815252	305672940	20th-Century Theology: God and the World in a Transitional Age	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the Story of Modern Theology	I have just used this book as the set text for the 'contemporary theology' module of a theology degree, and I found it an excellent introduction to the basics of recent theological thought. It is certainly accessible for the average undergraduate, and is more easy-going than, say, David Ford's heavy volume 'Modern Theologians'. Although the writers are evangelicals, they generally treat those of other stock fairly even-handedly, and they cover all the main points and never fail to offer poignant criticisms. It becomes a little pedantic at times, particularly some of the obligatory words of praise offered to some of the more objectionable theologians such as Rudolf Bultmann. Such flattery seems rather insincere. There are also one or two points that could have been explained a bit more clearly, instead of being glossed over. On the whole though I couldn't recommend a better intro to contemporary theology. Incidentally, if you are reading modern theologians for the first time, I recommend Wolfhart Pannenberg and Karl Rahner. They were the ones who most impressed me, anyhow, and I think they both brought out important elements of the gospel.	2001-04-27
US	47370464	R2FHBSCT29REKN	0334005221	595136151	Fundamentalism	Books	2	26	44	N	N	Expected better of James Barr	I have been fairly impressed with some of James Barr's other works in different areas (eg. 'Semantics of Biblical Language') and I ventured into 'Fundamentalism' with an open mind, but was disappointed. By 'fundamentalist' he basically means most conservative evangelicals; his particular gripe is with the doctrine of inerrancy, though he levels plenty of other charges at conservatives: they don't believe non-fundamentalists are 'true' Christians; they only make use of critical scholarship when it suits their own agenda; they elevate their own traditions to infallible status. Of course all these have been true of some evangelicals at one point or another, but Barr makes all of these more or less blanket accusations that he wants to make out are an inherent part of conservative evangelicalism. He frequently draws attention to extreme examples that many (or most) thinking evangelical scholars would disown, eg. Harold Lindsell's infamous harmonisation of Peter's denial (which had him postulating a sixfold denial). He picks on Howard Marshall for harmonising the two ascension accounts in Luke and Acts, suggesting that this is typical of evangelical harmonisation whose only motivation is to protect the Bible from error, when in fact it is only common sense to assume that the SAME event recorded by the SAME author is more likely than not to be able to be harmonised. Barr's work is full of double standards: he despises the way conservatives, when asked by a layman about liberal theology, will be directed to a book written by a conservative intending to refute the liberal position, and yet Barr himself writes with the intent of introducing non-conservatives to HIS interpretation and refutation of fundamentalism; he complains about the animosity shown by some conservatives towards biblical scholars, and yet his own work is marred by a hostile and unfriendly attitude. In fact, if it weren't for the blatant hostility demonstrated towards conservative evangelicalism throughout the book, and the fact that every accusation he raises he tries to elevate to 'typical' status within 'fundamentalism', he might actually have some good points to make. He doesn't seem to realise, however, that many of these criticisms have been raised WITHIN evangelicalism, by people who hold firmly to inerrancy, which Barr seems to see as the Achilles' heel of evangelicalism. Barr thinks that evangelicals have been wrong to reject biblical criticism? Good! Many evangelicals say the same thing, and it is only one narrow stream of evangelicalism who have rejected it outright, whereas many conservative scholars have used biblical criticism honestly and responsibly. Barr is fed up with crass harmonisations and ludicrous attempts to explain away 'errors'? Good! Many evangelical scholars are equally fed up, yet they remain inerrantists. Barr is tired of partisan propaganda from fundamentalists, of their failure to interact sufficiently with non-conservative scholarship, of being uncreative in theology and unwilling to step out into new territory? Good! Join the rest of the world of evangelical scholarship who have been raising the same objections for many years, from within a Bible-believing, inerrantist framework. Barr would like his readers to think that all the problems he finds in conservative evangelicalism are as a direct result of holding to inerrancy, but the evidence is against him. I have recently done my BA thesis on Barr's criticisms, particularly as they relate to inerrancy and interpretation, and I have come across many evangelical scholars who share Barr's concerns, and yet feel no need to abandon inerrancy (Craig L. Blomberg and Moises Silva were those who impressed me most). I found 'Fundamentalism' misleading and, in fact, almost vicious at times. I had to restrain my anger just to be able to learn from Barr's criticisms, because the underlying tone completely obscured any positive contributions Barr might have had to make. Barr is generally a good scholar, but he went beyond the bounds of good scholarship this time, and 'Fundamentalism' is more akin to the 'rubbishy partisan literature' he so despises than any fair, academic treatment of a subject which deserves attention.lar, but he went beyond the bounds of good scholarship this time, and 'Fundamentalism' is more akin to the 'rubbishy partisan literature' he so despises than any fair, academic treatment of a subject which deserves attention.	2001-03-25
US	47370464	R3EDOQFP43UIQ1	1579722067	567176831	Strengthening Your Grip	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wise words from a wise man	For good, down-to-earth advice about the practicalities of living a life that honours God, Chuck's writings can't be beaten. He addresses a number of relevant issues, such as finances, sexual purity, and prayer, in a way that reflects on the teaching of the Bible as well as the wisdom gained through his wealth of Christian experience.	2001-03-02
US	47370464	RCSBPIU41TE31	0785271368	131153224	I Was Wrong: The Untold Story of the Shocking Journey from PTL Power to Prison and Beyond	Books	3	27	29	N	N	Compelling read	Jim Bakker gives a compelling account of the events surrounding his notorious 'fall from grace' in the 1980s. He is entitled to be heard, and for the most part we can agree with him when he exposes the unfairness of the treatment he received at the hands of the media and the courts, as well as when he confesses, 'I was wrong.' He bravely recants on the prosperity doctrine he used to teach and provides an enlightening account of the process by which the Lord revealed to him the error he had fallen prey to.<br />Perhaps the one area in which I would urge caution, however, is in the personal accusations he makes at the others involved in the PTL scandal. He alleges a number of things about other Christian leaders, as well as those closest to him, such as his ex-wife Tammy Faye. He may or may not be right, but let's remember he is just telling one side of the story. I wonder whether he was wise in putting some of these things into print.	2001-03-02
US	47370464	R2OAPAVY12N8EY	0300074484	588208741	Thomas Cranmer: A Life	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Quality Biography	I am not much of a biography/history reader, but I was forced to read this hefty volume for a research paper on Cranmer (took me all of nine days, reading for several hours a day). This is quality, scholarly research, well-written and keeping a good balance between describing the events of Cranmer's life and career, and analysing his theological development. MacCulloch writes favourably about Cranmer, and his account is bound to inspire sympathy and admiration for someone who was a flawed hero, but a hero nevertheless.	2001-03-02
US	47370464	R1M2H3GUAH0N92	0849912229	4213551	The Macarthur Study Bible ~ New King James Version (NKJV)	Books	5	8	21	N	N	Hold your sides --- they might just split!!!	I'm sure on the whole, Uncle John's study Bible is great (he really does have a gift for Bible exposition), but here's just my feelings about his comments on 1 Corinthians 14 - read it sometime. His exegesis at this critical point is just laugh-out-loud hilarious... I love John, but I've got to say that his anti-charismatic bias just goes a bit too far with this one. His particular slant on the issue is one I have yet to encounter in a single other Bible commentator (and I've read fairly widely on this subject), which is always a bad sign. Enough said - read it for yourself.	2001-02-24
US	47370464	R1U4DFCE9AVCBM	0310286700	14879080	Systematic Theology: An Introduction to Biblical Doctrine	Books	3	19	43	N	N	Valuable but flawed exposition of reformed theology	Grudem's book provides a decent exposition of standard reformed doctrine, and he has the credentials of being a convinced charismatic, and so his sections on the gifts of the Holy Spirit are an invaluable addition lacking in most systematic theologies. He provides some very basic, though useful, defences of traditional evangelical theology.<br />On the other hand, Grudem's work is flawed by its overly scientific-rational approach to theology and doctrine. His treatment of the authority of the Scriptures, for example, is unconvincing in many of the details, eg. inerrancy etc. Evangelical theology, to be taken seriously, must move away from the 'prooftexting' approach, and interact on a more substantial level with some of the real challenges presented by alternative theological and philosophical understandings of Scripture which have equally been established out of a high regard and respect for the Bible.	2001-02-18
US	47370464	RGPAEPMQN3CJX	0340610662	520382798	Once Saved, Always Saved?: A Study in Perseverance and Inheritance	Books	4	24	29	N	N	Competent defence of an Arminian view of salvation	David Pawson is always readable, and always has perceptive insights into the biblical text that are well worth hearing and examing. In this case, Pawson has presented a well-grounded defence of a basically Arminian theology of salvation, which stresses the need for perseverance in the faith in order to attain to final salvation. He takes the reader systematically through the New Testament to see what each of the writers has to say on the subject. His exegesis is frequently disarmingly honest as to the thrust of each text, and he certainly pulls no punches in spelling out the life-or-death issues at stake when it comes to Christians flirting with sinful lifestyles and trying to keep the faith without producing the fruit.<br />On the other hand, he steers away, as one might expect, from some of the texts that might harm his case. He does address, in a separate chapter, some of the texts raised by eternal securists, but his treatment of them is rather superficial and dismissive at times. The most compelling biblical evidence in favour of eternal security, such as a number of instances in the Johannine writings, are not even addressed. His appendix on the fate of Judas, and the implications of the Bible narrative for our understanding of election and predestination, is rather unconvincing. Pawson also needs to take more care to spell out the implications of what he is saying to the doctrine of justification by faith, as he is open at some points to the charge of semi-Pelagianism.<br />Despite this weakness, his overall arguments are convincing and need to be taken seriously. On a theological level, Pawson's comments will help to contribute to a more rounded understanding of what the Bible has to say on the issue of salvation and security. On a practical level, believers need to hear the severe warnings offered by the Scriptures to those who are in danger of falling back into sin and rejecting their faith in Christ.	2001-02-16
US	47370464	R1TP31DX57O3S2	0340610662	520382798	Once Saved, Always Saved?: A Study in Perseverance and Inheritance	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Competent defence of an Arminian view of salvation	David Pawson is always readable, and always has perceptive insights into the biblical text that are well worth hearing and examing. In this case, Pawson has presented a well-grounded defence of a basically Arminian theology of salvation, which stresses the need for perseverance in the faith in order to attain to final salvation. He takes the reader systematically through the New Testament to see what each of the writers has to say on the subject. His exegesis is frequently disarmingly honest as to the thrust of each text, and he certainly pulls no punches in spelling out the life-or-death issues at stake when it comes to Christians flirting with sinful lifestyles and trying to keep the faith without producing the fruit.<br />On the other hand, he steers away, as one might expect, from some of the texts that might harm his case. He does address, in a separate chapter, some of the texts raised by eternal securists, but his treatment of them is rather superficial and dismissive at times. The most compelling biblical evidence in favour of eternal security, such as a number of instances in the Johannine writings, are not even addressed. His appendix on the fate of Judas, and the implications of the Bible narrative for our understanding of election and predestination, is rather unconvincing. Pawson also needs to take more care to spell out the implications of what he is saying to the doctrine of justification by faith, as he is open at some points to the charge of semi-Pelagianism.<br />Despite this weakness, his overall arguments are convincing and need to be taken seriously. On a theological level, Pawson's comments will help to contribute to a more rounded understanding of what the Bible has to say on the issue of salvation and security. On a practical level, believers need to hear the severe warnings offered by the Scriptures to those who are in danger of falling back into sin and rejecting their faith in Christ.	2001-02-16
US	47370464	RNDLO42WYSJL5	0310575729	197672893	Charismatic Chaos	Books	2	156	183	N	N	Sad but true	I am a charismatic, and so naturally I disagree with MacArthur's views about whether the miraculous gifts have ceased. I also agree with those reviewers who point out that what John (for whom I have a great deal of respect; in fact he is one of my favourite Bible teachers) does is to highlight only the abuses he finds.<br />Unfortunately, there is far too much of this abuse going on in charismatic circles, and if charismatics themselves do not publicly acknowledge the current state of the movement, then it is left to anti-charismatics like John MacArthur to do it for them, and that means an awful lot of unfairness and bias along with it. The sad state of affairs is, though, that even when charismatic leaders do speak out on these things, they almost invariably (in my experience) tone the whole thing down as if it really is just a minor problem, or paint a picture of a charismatic movement of which just the fringe has gone overboard, and try and disassociate themselves, and the circles in which they move, from the problem.<br />The reality is that it is not just something on the fringes of charismatic movement: I am inclined to agree with John that what we are witnessing is indeed 'Charismatic Chaos'. It is hard to be a charismatic/Pentecostal in a day when being such is increasingly defined by whether you jump on the latest bandwagon, be it the 'endtimes revival' bandwagon, the 'Toronto blessing' bandwagon, or the 'apostles and prophets' bandwagon.<br />MacArthur does indeed cite abuses, but much of the time he is highlighting preachers and practices that are at the very heart of modern charismaticism. If charismatics continue to dodge the issue, people like John MacArthur will make themselves heard.	2001-02-14
US	47370464	R1X6N0H1X61BDC	0310201551	829478950	Are Miraculous Gifts for Today?	Books	4	54	58	N	N	Take up and read	I did not find this book overbalanced on the charismatic side, as one Amazon reviewer suggested. On the contrary, I feel that Richard B. Gaffin was a very wise choice for a representative of the cessationist viewpoint. His arguments move away from flimsy prooftexting and he engages well with the biblical evidence. He avoids the virile tone towards continuationists that many others on his side of the debate have exhibited, and relies on good argumentation and scholarship rather than just anti-charismatic rhetoric.<br />Similarly, those propounding a continuationist view of spiritual gifts raise some interesting points, Sam Storms giving the most compelling arguments in its favour.<br />This book will provide an excellent introduction to the current debate, and will be far more helpful to cessationists and continuationists alike than the many other books in the genre which exhibit a much more partisan, even hostile approach.	2001-02-14
US	47370464	R3DXW7HPIDUQOS	0310211271	112141862	Surprised by the Power of the Spirit	Books	2	42	63	N	N	A Plea for Fairness	I was surprised by the favourable recommendations on the cover of this book (particularly R. T. Kendall's comment - perhaps only on the UK edition - that Deere's thesis is 'irrefutable'). Many of his arguments for the continuance of spiritual gifts are valid, biblical arguments, and he deals well with a number of texts. I, personally, being a continuationist, would support his conclusions.<br />However, I have recently experienced something of an epiphany: I have realised that, just as cessationists like to caricature all charismatics and paint pictures of them as extremists, so do charismatics like to perpetrate many myths about cessationists, and Deere does not escape this. He represents cessationists as dry, spiritually-dead traditionalists, and makes the mistake of projecting his own (former) image onto other cessationists. He has no right to do so, and I fear that in his portrayal of cessationists he has set up something of a straw man. His own journey was one from deadness to liveliness, from spiritual barrenness to intense passion, from a largely cereberal faith to a real heart-faith. His error is to assume that his experience is the experience of other cessationists. He is surely not going to win any friends on the opposite side of the debate with such an attitude!<br />His treatment of the 'three periods of miracles' argument is rather unfair, and I fear he misrepresents John MacArthur's position. The Old Testament examples he provides to 'prove' that miracles were commonplace are almost exclusively miracles that took place APART from human agency, which completely misses the point of what cessationists are arguing. He does eventually acknowledge this, but it is almost in passing, and the reader who is unaware of MacArthur's original argument could easily miss it.<br />Charismatics will really have to do better than this if they want to gain a fair hearing and be taken seriously. Deere's approach will only alienate those who aren't predisposed to the continuationist position.	2001-02-14
US	47370464	R8JN4I9VVZQJQ	0800620976	617987801	The Living Word	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A Welcome Challenge to All Evangelicals	Every thinking evangelical should welcome a book like this. Dunn provides some useful criticisms of the traditional evangelical defence of the authority of Scripture, particularly on the issue of inerrancy, and investigates Scripture's claims about itself - what it reveals about its own inspiration, the nature of its authority, and how the Bible writers used and interpreted the Old Testament record. His conclusions may be disagreeable to some - see the chapter entitled 'Was Jesus a liberal? Was Paul a heretic?' for example - but his voice cannot go unheard, and as usual Dunn combines a real respect for the Scriptures with honest, reasonable scholarship and clear thinking.	2001-02-11
US	47370464	R3M5COUH58FEIS	1565076966	383562657	Christianity in Crisis with Study Guide	Books	2	15	25	N	N	The Right Stuff, Wrong Attitude	I have no problem with exposing false and dangerous doctrine, but I find Hank Hanegraaff's approach to the whole thing disturbing. I agree that the faith movement has many dangerous teachings, and, if not heretical, is certainly perilously close to being heretical. However, whatever worthwhile warnings might be sounded, Hank's approach to the whole thing leaves much to be desired. As usual, his writing is dripping with sarcasm and ridicule. Instead of holding up faith teachings to scrutiny in a sober manner (as others such as McConnell have done), he seems intent on making faith teachers look as foolish as possible, and will use deliberately provocative techniques to do so. His research at times is misleading, with little care taken to put quotations into context. I suggest readers go to DeArteaga's 'Quenching the Spirit' (which, by the way, I do not, on the whole, agree with) and perhaps Brown's 'Let No One Deceive You' (ditto) for further illumination on some of Hanegraaff's clumsy and unscholarly tactics.	2000-12-17
US	47370464	R2EKP3X4ILXWNG	1565631706	94173745	Paul, the Spirit, and the People of God	Books	4	31	31	N	N	Classic	Gordon D. Fee has done everyone a favour. This is a scaled-down version of 'God's Empowering Presence', without all the pages of Greek exegesis. Suitable reading for the lay-theologian, a good devotional read.<BR>Particularly interesting are his comments on the flesh-Spirit theme, and he certainly deserves to be heard in this regard. He competently expounds Paul's theology of what it means to be 'in the Spirit' and 'walking in the Spirit' (though the reader will have to go to GEP for the full exegetical background)and exposes the shallowness of the prevailing evangelical view that flesh and Spirit is about the unceasing internal battle between two natures, a doctrine which can be used to cover up sin and obscure the reality of the freedom believers have in Christ.<BR>Fee's findings make great pastoral theology, and I have found his insights invaluable, both in my own life and in teaching others. My only concern is that his emphasis on the Spirit may tend to promote a corresponding de-emphasis on Christ, who is the central figure in Paul's teaching.	2000-10-25
US	47370464	RFMOEG1N566N5	1563840421	84489419	Heresy Hunters: Character Assassination in the Church	Books	2	6	8	N	N	James!	One is left with the feeling that whilst in principle it is right to judge doctrine, even publicly, in practice there are not many ways of doing this without offending someone of James' sensibility. He feels that certain teachers have been unfairly criticised for their 'little gods' doctrine, yet the only evidence he offers for this is a very shallow comparison with the patristic doctrine of divinisation. He fails to reasonably demonstrate, with evidence, exactly what is wrong with the critiques that have been levelled at this teaching. One cannot help but feel that the author's run-in with the Tanners (ch. 6) is a bit of a sore spot which, because of the personal and sensitive issues involved, Spencer would have been wiser to have left alone. Having said that, there are helpful points which need to be heard by the 'heresy hunters', and they are very serious points to do with integrity and honesty. It is just unfortunate that the tone of the book seems to pander to those whose teachings raise the most concerns (hence the book's popularity at TBN) and comes across as a defence of Word-Faith etc. an approach which will only alienate those who need to hear some of its warnings.	2000-10-24
US	47370464	R36OATA7P3N2Y9	0840731299	753814452	Witch Hunt	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Pertinent examination of the pitfalls of heresy-hunting	Far better than Spencer's Heresy Hunters: Character Assassination in the Church, this provides a useful check for those involved in the biblically crucial, but potentially perilous, task of discerning true doctrine. See Robert Bowman's critique however for balance...	2000-10-24
