US	47387331	RDEHO1MVWB31U	076790799X	569162215	With Love and Squalor: 13 Writers Respond to the Work of J.D. Salinger	Books	4	7	12	N	N	A Pleasant Read... Pity About the Urine	Let's face it.  Like it or not, Salinger had a monumental impact on the way Americans read and write fiction, particularly short fiction.  However, it is unfortunate that the greatest impact depicted here in &quot;With Love and Squalor&quot; is via tributes to &quot;Catcher in the Rye.&quot;  If you haven't read &quot;Raise High the Roofbeams, Carpenter,&quot; &quot;Nine Stories,&quot; and Salinger's other novellas and short fiction, you haven't even come close to the tip of the iceberg.<br />The authors presented here (a good number of whom I've never read) establish themselves almost immediately as a) Salinger followers from the moment the fizz of puberty's effervescence first erupted, and b) naysayers to the works of non-fiction that have recently arisen regarding Salinger's private life.  No fewer than five of the fourteen felt it necessary to repeat that Salinger is purported to have a less-than-palatable proclivity for drinking his own urine and spending time with young girls.  These two proclamations from the authors tended to cloud what would otherwise be an excellent anthology of Salinger essays.  I would advise the reader to understand that this is what you'll be up against when you first open the book, and then I would advise the reader to get over it.<br />An almost clinical exploration Salinger's suicidal writing (foremost in &quot;A Perfect Day for Bananafish,&quot; but also prevalent in a surprising number of other stories) is among the most riveting reading, not only because we've become intimate with the stories in question (and love them), but also because the author of this snippet [whose name I have woefully misplaced] has been touched with suicide himself.  It's a poignant and bittersweet recognition the author makes, seeing himself in Salinger's characters at a far deeper level than, happily, many of us will never have to dig.<br />Every story in this book is in itself a work of art.  Pity about the urine, though.	2002-01-03
US	47387331	RBL0NCG1NH71F	1860468977	241495517	The Dirty War	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Excellent reporting, Strong translation	Politkovskaya has provided us an incredible insight into both sides of the ugliest conflict, both politically and moralistically, since the Second World War.  Her ability to speak not only with the Russian OMON troops, the Russian military, and the Chechen &quot;freedom fighters,&quot; as well as with the families of the dead from each side, provides the necessary balance and authority to make her book as intriguing as the people themselves.  <br />Politkovskaya's political leanings are apparent within the first two chapters, but should not shade the information she provides.  Crowfoot's translation, which on occasion slips from lyrical to Boris-and-Natasha-speak, appears a bit rushed; considering the threats made on Politkovskaya after her October suggestion that Russians were responsible for the deaths of high-ranking Putin advisors sent to the region to investigate federal operations there, a rush can be understood and appreciated.  This complaint  is, in my opinion, the only distraction from an otherwise outstanding piece of work.<br />Buy this book, and hope for another very soon!	2001-12-06
US	47387331	R2KDCYZOD9YRNR	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	5	13	21	N	N	A Far More Readable Book!	As a former federal employee who's worked with intelligence of this caliber, even I was stifling yawns with &quot;The Puzzle Palace,&quot;   Bamford's 1981 tranquilizer which professed to blow the lid off of the &quot;world's most secret agency.&quot;  Thankfully, &quot;Body of Secrets&quot; is nothing like its predecessor.<br />Bamford, by his own admission, was afforded far more access to NSA's vaults than he could have hoped for, particularly after the acrimonious lawsuits following his first book.  The access is easily visible in this book, which reads like a series of tautly written espionage short stories.  The reality soon sets in, however, that the events spelled out are all too real, and a tingle races up your spine.<br />Most poignant in this book is the re-telling of the occurrences surrounding the USS Liberty.  This story, for too long ignored for political reasons, shows how Israel took one of our surveillance vessels and used it for target practice during the Israeli-Egyptian 6-Day War.  23 military linguists were killed in the attack, and scores more were wounded.  Through documents declassified under the Freedom of Information Act, as well as a number of interviews with survivors and former NSA employees, Bamford tells the tale of a government impeded by its own politics to protect her own people.  Very sad.<br />Another chapter speaks of Operation NORTHWOODS, a Joint Chiefs of Staff campaign to overtly overthrow Castro.  The best way to attempt this, it was obvious to all involved, would be to provide misinformation and planted &quot;documentation&quot; spelling out Castro's intentions to sabotage and conduct terrorism throughout the US.  Of course, this wasn't the case, so certain events would have to be staged.  The declassified documents point to the inevitability of American casualties (people would be shot on the street), but it was more or less agreed upon as an ugly necessity for the overall good.  This sort of information is staggeringly incredible, but all too believable.<br />Bamford should be applauded for this effort.  In a way, NSA provided their own form of appreciation by allowing him a book signing in their own once-mysterious halls.  Hopefully we won't have to wait another 20 years for a book of this sort to hit the pike.	2001-06-07
US	47387331	R36ZYP5RSEY9RE	158648043X	940035790	Waging Modern War:  Bosnia, Kosovo, and the Future of Combat	Books	5	52	62	N	N	An outstanding book	Obviously, General Clark is not out to win a lot of friends with the publication of this book, a damning account of how politics and war make, at best, awkward bedfellows and at worst, the potential for inadvertent sabotage.  <br />More telling (for me, anyway) than the tone of the book, which shows how political claptrap can tie a commander's hands from committing intelligently (no lessons learned from previous conflicts?), Clark shows throughout the entire book that everything we have been taught regarding the basic principles of warfare, from Sun-Tzu to Clausewitz and beyond, have been completely done away with in the Bosnian conflict.  Through technology in our weaponry, the delivery platforms, the intelligence, and most pointedly, in our communications networks (particularly the media), by which we more or less spoon-fed Milosevic our every move well in advance, thus eliminating the vital element of surprise.<br />Another notion that has brought angst to most Americans is that of the &quot;no-civilian-casualties&quot; conflict.  Clark echoes, point-blank, the same words that every commander throughout the history of modern warfare has muttered - war is hell, and people will be killed, combatants and non-combatants; that's the nature of war.  With smart technology at our feet, and brilliant weapons technology knocking at the door, we have come to expect that firing a missile onto a bridge where a bus is passing will somehow have allowed the bus to escape unharmed.  It's not possible now, nor will it be possible in the future.  The weapons, as Clark states, can only be as perfect as not only the people who develop them, but as the people who upload them, arm them, test them, engineer them, and ultimately fire them.  I would take it a step further and add that the weapons are only as good as the intelligence which feeds them.<br />Clark has written a book that deserves recognition as a bold step in Warfare Theory literature, and should be on the Airman's and Soldier's official reading lists for officers and enlisted alike.	2001-05-23
US	47387331	R39FGFLBYQVMBE	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best in the series	Needless to say, if you've read the other books in the &quot;His Dark Materials&quot; series, you're GOING to pick this one up.  Leaving Lyra and Will (and Roger!) hanging at the end of the second book would be criminal.<br />If, on the other hand, you've not read ANY of the series, this book should be the one that pushes you in that direction.  Pullman has taken all of the loosest elements from the previous two books and ties them together so perfectly, so seamlessly, that even the seemingly most trivial aspect that you would assume could (or should) be overlooked is addressed, highlighted, underscored, and filed neatly away.<br />Without wanting to give too much away, you can bet that Roger is back, along with Mr. Scoresby, Lyra's parents (who meet a far more appropriate fate than I could ever have imagined), and Serafina.  Lyra and Will, in the last three chapters, will leave you gasping for more and if you don't shed at least one tear by the end of the book, consider yourself among the most granite-hearted to tread the earth!<br />Make no mistake about it, however; the book should be approached by wary (albeit open-minded) parents if you're looking at it for a gift for the kids.  There are are the casual vices they see on prime time television (deaths, drinking, despair, grief), but nothing is without its own punishment (or reward).  I'd save this for the pre-teen to teen years; even reading these aloud to the 2nd and 3rd graders might be a bit too much for those tender minds.  If nothing else, buy the books for your own enjoyment, put them away until you feel the kids are at an appropriate age, and then let them dive in to a world like no other.<br />An excellent read!	2001-05-03
US	47387331	R6BI8SM4OL2NC	0312272189	837137898	Fear & Trembling	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A Worthwhile Read	My first outing with Ms Nothomb turned out to be quite the ride.  This book presents a semi-autobiographical look at Nothomb's experiences in Japan's business world, and it is a journey like no other.  Nothomb, a Belgian national born and raised in Japan, offered services as a French and English translator for a large Japanese business in the heart of Tokyo; before long, because of a series of cultural and business faux-pax, she finds herself on a year-long contract cleaning lavatories.  Her plights are unenviable, to say the least.  <br />The reader may find it a bit difficult to empathize with Amelie, particularly when she kowtows to a culture that demands, by its own admission, foreign adherence to its whims when its own people are not expected to reciprocate in any kind.  When Amelie apologizes to Fubuki, the pseudo-nemesis of the story's protagonist, for committing &quot;grave mistakes&quot; that should have otherwise been excused or overlooked, I actually cringed.  It was not until the final page that I felt I had a good grip on the author's intent in those passages.<br />Nothomb is an exquisite author, but I can only say this because of the magnificent translation provided by Adriana Hunter.  Hunter gives us a sympathetic reading of Nothomb's nuances and intentions, and allows the reader to fill in the verbal gaps from the original French version.  <br />This is a highly respectable (and very short) work, and well worthy of even the most cautious reader's eye.	2001-05-03
US	47387331	R12NJPMGCBE98K	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Leaves you hungry for more!	This is more than just a casual read.  If you've picked up &quot;The Golden Compass&quot; out of curiosity, and are wondering whether or not to continue the series, by all means, drop everything you're doing and buy this book now.  <br />I had been a bit unhappy with Pullman's treatment of Lyra and Roger at the end of the first book, and only picked up this particular book to see if he had &quot;taken care&quot; of things within the first two or three chapters to any satisfaction.  Pompous, yes, but when you become as intimate with the characters as Pullman demands of his readers, you feel you are owed something.  Pullman pays off big in this novel.<br />By the end of the second page, you are gripped in the world of another youngster in another dimension of Lyra's Oxford, Will.  Will is on the run, striving to protect his mother and himself after a series of misadventures that, by all appearances, seem to revolve around his missing father.  The parallels between Will's and Lyra's world do not stop with the geography - their lives are as intertwined as any can be, and by the middle of the book, you are on a roller coaster ride that will not end with the book.  If nothing else, Pullman is a master at grabbing your neck and pulling you into the car with him.<br />Pick up this book, and go ahead and pick up the third in the series as well (&quot;The Amber Spyglass&quot;).  You will not want to wait even a minute between reading the two books.  An amazing read!	2001-05-03
US	47387331	R14WH8R75WRS02	188766436X	533004887	As Long As They're Laughing : Groucho Marx and You Bet Your Life	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Magnificent stuff, this	If nothing else, this book single-handedly shatters all the images of the micro-managing meddler that Groucho has been painted as over the years.  We are given a look behind the scenes at one of the most brilliant radio and television game shows ever produced, and we see Groucho not only as a genius at the art of ad-libbing, but also of allowing a talented staff to explore their own creativity.<br />I would compare this to &quot;Letters From Groucho&quot; only because it made me laugh until tears were rolling down my cheeks; otherwise, it is a unique book, the only one I've read on this witty man that chips away the stereotypes by someone who actually knew and worked with him.	2001-04-04
US	47387331	RRX2KGL1S3886	0679436154	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	You May Not Like The Diagnosis...	Listen to me carefully - this is nothing more than a piece of fiction. It isn't meant to be a chronicle of a real person. Don't become attached to the main character; he acts irrationally, and no matter how many times you yell at him throughout your reading, his fate is pre-determined.<br />I'm still not sure if Lightman was trying to goof with us all, or if he was trying to provide more insight into the social anachronism that has become &quot;Angry White Guy.&quot; The story revolves around a lead character who, in the first ten pages, completely loses track of who he is, where he is going, and why he was going there. He experiences what is known as &quot;an episode&quot; to the psychological community - it passes after a truly horrific series of catastrophes that has the reader riveted to the book. <br />By the time the reader gets to the subsequent chapters, you realize that our hero is not going to tell anyone the truth - the series of events is written off as a mugging - and as he continues (hopefully) back on his usual routine, subtle changes occur to his body. First, he loses feeling in his arm, then both arms, then his legs. He bounces like a pinball from physician to physician, psychiatrist to psychiatrist. And he never admits to anyone (perhaps even to himself?) the reality of the situation, the origins of the malady. As a result, he dodges a diagnosis of his problem.<br />His long-suffering (some would argue further that she is also insufferable) wife and tragically affected son try to deal with the affliction as best they can. The wife's character can be dismissed as so much literary pocket lint - you know she's there, but you can easily ignore her with the rest of the story line. But the son is the sole figure with whom I found any empathy - he strives so hard to reach out to his father, to be off-handedly refused time and again. It's at these moments that you find yourself finding it more and more difficult to sympathize with Chalmers, the lead character. Yeah, I put the book down, shaking my head, wondering why I felt the need to continue reading.<br />Lightman is a masterful puppetteer - yup, we're the puppets. By never revealign the diagnosis, and allowing the lead character to succumb to his own impotence with his family, we are trapped into reading the book through to the end. We hope for a satisfactory method in which our dear friend, the author, wraps it all up neatly, finds a cure, and saves the world, all in one punch. It just doesn't happen that way, though. <br />I've seen this book compared to Kafka, but I would argue that it is more like a book by Kafka's contemporary, Thomas Mann. Take a look at the poetically written &quot;Magic Mountain&quot; - you'll see a lot of the same elements and frustration. If Lightman didn't write so well,I really would have let him have it on this review - particularly in his incessant demand in presenting atrocious mis-spellings throughout the many e-mails that haunt the book. I believe his intention was to show that everyone around us (as well as ourselves) are so rushed, we don't pay attention to even the ritualistcally simple task of spelling correctly (or proofing our work).	2001-03-09
US	47387331	R1DR2VYSFQWE2S	1558505857	695220371	365 Tv Free Activities (2nd) (365 Activities)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	PARENTS - BUY THIS BOOK!	I have read literally hundreds of books on how to be a better parent (much less a good one), and have NEVER read one that puts all the tools in my hand better than this one.  Buy this book!<br />There are more than a handful of obvious choices, of course - #126, playing dress up; #229, paper, scissors, rock - but there are lasting treasures here, too - drawing an outline of your child's body on a large sheet of paper for later preservation; growing celery and carrots; drawing a silhouette of your child's head.  There isn't enough room here for me to show it all.<br />The true joy of the book isn't in the ideas - after all, anyone could throw 365 ideas together on a couple of sheets of paper and hey presto!  You've got a book...!  What the Bennetts do is present the material with a warm humor (expertly offered with grin-cracking illustrations the kids will appreciate, too).  This is a book for all ages - I bought mine in 1991, when my oldest was 4, and we still get great ideas from it.<br />Turn off the TV, pluck the youngsters from in front of it (I'm telling you, they'll still watch it even when it's turned off!) and bust open this book.  Stand by for smiles!	2001-03-09
US	47387331	R16M9ZPEMWLCSA	0684873028	704115192	Hillary's Turn: Inside Her Improbable, Victorious Senate Campaign	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Take it From a Non-Fan	I might not particularly like Mrs. Clinton, but I have a great deal of respect for her vision and ability to maintain a focused and fair campaign amid the ever-widening scandals with which her husband continues to embrace himself.<br />In this book, Michael Tomasky has offered a valuable document to people like me.  This is a window through which I was able to finally, at least to my best guess, see the person behind the face and the name some of us have come to meet with churning stomach.  <br />I expected more of a biography, but was met instead with the story of the candidacy for the Senate.  We're presented with the ins and outs of the campaign trail, one that would seemingly be somewhat low-key considering it was, after all, for one state and not for all fifty (in a shallow comparison to the Presidential campaign).  We're given a look into the turmoils that surrounded Mrs. Clinton, from Rudolph Giuliani's attacks to &quot;that speech, that kiss&quot; from Mrs. Clinton to Arafat's wife.  Through it all, we are credibly told and shown, Mrs. Clinton took the high road.<br />If nothing else, this book has greatly increased my respect for Mrs. Clinton.  She's been shown as a human being, one who has the same emotions as you and me, and one who has the character and strength to face a hell of a lot more tribulations in one year than I would ever hope to see in a lifetime.  Hats off to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Tomasky for a well-crafted, perfectly outlined book.	2001-02-27
US	47387331	RZAGBL3FNJP4F	0933756097	73904760	The Purloined Paperweight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Stuff, This	A good deal of the plot in this beautiful little tome was borrowed from &quot;Uncle Fred in the Springtime,&quot; only this time we've got a paperweight collector, rather than a scarab collector.  We also have as a twist to the plot the addition of a detective novelist who isn't quite as he seems to several players; this, too, was highlighted in &quot;UFitS.&quot;  The paperweight, however, is purloined with the full approval of the owner, unlike the scarab.  <br />Wodehouse's novels of the 60s, in my opinion, while excellent on their own, pale somewhat in comparison to his work from the first half of the century.  This book is even more dated by Wodehouse's insistence on including &quot;contemporary&quot; references - how many younger readers will understand the &quot;Ben Casey&quot; reference?  However, this 1967 outing will make a sparkling addition to any reader's bookshelf.	2001-02-27
US	47387331	RWVZBN4QLRZHF	1575001357	566776755	Blood And Honey: A Balkan War Journal	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Coffee Table Book with a Twist	It's hard top describe or explain, but the very impact of the horrific photos and the tender essays which accompany them add substantially to the overall beauty of the work.  This is definitely something to leave on the coffee table, with the expectation of rousing some stirring (possibly controversial) conversation.<br />Haviv's displaying a tremendous ability to see through the &quot;fog of war&quot; that has routinely plagued journalists (photojournalists and written word journalists) since the American Civil War.  His eye for the poignant photo speaks, as a picture is supposed to, thousands of words; his words paint the pictures far more deeper than what the superficial eye can see.  <br />This is as important a document of the Balkan War, or of war in general, as has ever been put to print.  The price of the book should not be considered too daunting - the price of war, however, should be.	2001-02-23
US	47387331	R1S4CIGXLLCIP0	0345440757	202842149	Secrets of the Baby Whisperer: How to Calm, Connect, and Communicate with Your Baby	Books	3	27	35	N	N	Like a Gun, Dangerous in the Wrong Hands	First, let me explain that I thought the idea behind this book was excellent - attempting to help parents relate to their newborns, helping them to cope with the staggering change introduced into their lives, and finally, helping baby adapt to OUR lifestyle, and not so much the other way around.<br />The problems arise when I came to realize that Ms Hogg's writing style can easily lead one to believe that each baby can be categorized neatly and cleanly into one of four types; the round-peg-round-hole syndrome is the first step, in every other book I've read, to parental frustration and can lead to a dangerous situation if the parent becomes despondent or depressed with the situation.  One parent who read the book told me, &quot;I felt as though I had been dealt a hand of blank cards, and all the other parents were playing with a proper deck.&quot;  I hope the readers of this review understand where this is going.<br />The idea that parents of colicky babies can also benefit substantially from this book is also, in my estimation, misleading.  Yes, the regimen that is given us CAN work for the baby with colic, but the price paid for traveling that particular line may be too dear - very few saints, much less parents, have the patience and inner solitude required to soothe all players in the house during a particularly bad period of colic.  Let's not forget - it's not just Baby and Me - I have a spouse, I have other children to think of too.<br />Don't get me wrong - the book is full of insight, and Ms Hogg is, by all appearances, a very wise and well-read woman.  But at times, while reading this, I was under the impression (perhaps mis-led), that the baby is looked at as a machine or a toy to be maintained.  I found myself catering to this pitch as well.<br />Far too often, we all look at children as things, vice people.  Read the book from cover to cover before attempting to take the program up; if it sounds like it would work for you, then press ahead with it.  If not, then abandon the book.  Books can be replaced; our children cannot.	2001-02-13
US	47387331	RK7XPPGK8J29	0803715579	705212427	Daughter's Day Blues	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Wow...?	Booklist seems to say it all; frankly, the text wanders from room to room like J.T. looking for trouble.  The illustrations are knock-out quality, however, and almost make up for the rest of the book.  I'm not sure what Ms. Pegram was looking for, but the characters in the book are far from sympathetic.<br />I try to approach books from several aspects, from redeeming qualities to post-partum &quot;dialogue-ability&quot; with the kids. The former isn't really fulfilled, by my best guesses, but there is plenty to discuss with the kids such as how they would react if they had to put up with a brother like J.T.; this is usually followed up with, &quot;Guess what?  You WERE a J.T. when you were little!&quot;<br />I would really like to read more by Ms. Pegram; in the meantime, &quot;Daughter's Day Blues&quot; was a bit of a downer.	2001-02-11
US	47387331	R3A3L7BKG1AFWW	0395720362	390915189	Jamaica's Blue Marker	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An All-Around Winner	This book is a good one to read to pre-schoolers and kindergarteners to help explore the feelings they have when they either meet someone like Russell or, at times, actually find themselves acting like Russell.  Hey, we all do it now and then.<br />Jamaica finds herself having to share her markers with Russell, who is neither well-behaved nor particularly adept at being prepared for class - he never has his supplies with him, and Jamaica pays the price by having to share her markers.  She pays a heavier price when the picture she draws gets scribbled on by the dreadful Russell.<br />When she tells her father of the day's events, he acknowledges her hurt feelings at havbing her work ruined, and then springs a surprise on her - Russell is moving away, do you suppose his feelings are a little mixed up right now?<br />Jamaica remains angry over the incident, to the extent that she won't join the class in making &quot;Goodbye&quot; cards to Russell; seeing how Russell behaves in the school yard at recess, one can find it difficult to blame her.<br />The end of the story finds Jamaica empathizing, finally, with Russell.  This is truly the moment of self-awareness and the moment when most children become cognizant of their own actions on others; by placing herself in Russell's shoes, just for a fleeting moment, Jamaica understands, or more importantly TRIES to understand, what has made Russell act this way recently.<br />Again, sharing this book with the younger children opens up a museum of opportunities to see if we can learn from each other.  Pat yourself on the back if you purchase this book.	2001-02-10
US	47387331	R2LE9CZQO2WR6K	0395837324	949732146	Spotty (Curious George)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Sweet Tale of Acceptance	Spotty is a dotted, spotted bunny born to a family of white, pink-eyed rabbits.  Although Spotty's mother loves him very much, as do all his brothers and sisters, she's afraid Grandpa will not approve of a bunny with brown spots, so she leaves him at home. Spotty becomes despondent and runs away, only to find a family of spotted rabbits with one all-white bunny.  <br />The book is a celebration of differences, and teaches children the very important lesson that we are who we are, and nothing can change that, nor should we try.  This reaches all levels - differences in attitude to the obvious difference in skin color.<br />&quot;Spotty&quot; reaches so much farther than any of the Rey's &quot;Curious George&quot; works, and I highly recommend it for every parent.	2001-02-10
US	47387331	RC41HKFGW38CN	0743211936	69099684	An Hour Before Daylight: Memories of a Rural Boyhood	Books	4	21	21	N	N	An Incredible Journey	This book is one of the best you'll read this year, guaranteed.  It's a glimpse into the former President's youth, a life which was never easy, but never one that was complained about.  Rather than writing a diatribe railing against growing up without having been born with the silver spoon found in so many of the other Presidents' mouths, Mr. Carter explores and celebrates the small trials he faced and which, eventually, molded him into the man who became President.  &quot;Angela's Ashes&quot; as written from Georgia?  Why not?<br />This book makes an outstanding gift, if only to yourself!	2001-02-08
US	47387331	R1Y913XFV87TAG	0446524166	70249041	What Remains	Books	4	17	17	N	N	This is the Almost Perfect Book	This book is exquisite.  The story of a family of German Jews, from little Benjamin (&quot;Mister Blister!&quot;) and his older brother Jacob (named after his mother Julia's first love, in itself a bittersweet subplot) to Julia, Gustave, Karl, and Grandmother Emma.  Everyone has a chance to provide their own narration, and give us their own flashback, after adult Ben returns to present-day England to visit the frail Gustave for what may be the last time.<br />But &quot;As I Lay Dying&quot; this ain't - the characters provide more than filler dialogue for the same action, over and over, ad nauseum.  Each chapter, each character's narrative, stands on its own as a separate story.<br />Emma provides, for me, the sweetest and saddest chapters in the book.  As with all elderly in almost every society, Emma becomes prone to being overlooked, the walking, talking afterthought in the family; while once the matriarch of this strong family,she now finds herself little more than one of the curios that litter the cabinets.  However, we find that she is still as young as her memories allow her to be, and longs for the chance to revisit her now-deceased husband in her mind, on the day they were engaged.  In the background, all the while, Karl and Julia and the kids prepare for a voyage to America (it is 1948).  Only Ben seems to have a capacity for empathy, which his mother's narrative further confirms.<br />Not since Salinger's Glass family have I found myself falling in love with a string of stories about a single family.  Delbanco's ear for dialogue is magnificent, and his eye for detail is matched only by his sense of conservation thereof; many authors would spend the 200 pages this book spans alone on what color the birch leaves were, how the soot covered the characters' shoes as they walked about the garden after one of the blitzes, etc.  Delbanco's understanding of when to turn it on and when to turn it off is nothing short of masterful.<br />My only gripe, and I feel sheepish bringing it up, is the fact that, in an effort to make the characters even more authentic, Delbanco feels compelled to fill the pages with German, French, and (on one occasion) Yiddish.  No problem there; he explains contextually the meaning of each phrase or word.  However, there are (sigh) misspellings throughout the German phrases that were really distracting to me; a pair of words misused the seemingly insignificant umlaut to the point that the meaning was humorously sent askew, and I'm sure it was unintentional.<br />Don't let this deter you from picking up this most solid book.  You will fall in love with this family, and yearn to find more Delbanco.	2001-02-07
US	47387331	R1WO3ZW3AJPBS8	1573221767	302777172	Sister India	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Disturbingly Unsatiating	I found this book to be unsettling, but I could not stop reading.  I believe readers who enjoyed &quot;The God of Small Things&quot; will understand what I mean by that, and I also believe they will enjoy this book as much as I did.<br />The story follows Estelle, a beanpole of a girl who flees North Carolina to find safe haven in Varanasi (Benares), the holiest of India's Hindu cities.  Here she becomes Madame Natraja, and manages a small guesthouse called Saraswati.  The beanpole of a girl now tips the scales at close to 400 pounds, and the guests of Saraswati are surprised at both her girth and her American-ness.<br />After an astrologer's prediction of unrest, seeds of religious disparity are sown amongst the Hindus and Muslims, and a Muslim is found murdered at Saraswati.  As a result, a strict curfew is announced, and no one is to leave their homes.  The guests of Saraswati find themselves virtual prisoners.  During their &quot;internment,&quot; they come to learn a great deal about each other, as well as India's cutsoms, and the rather mysterious Madame Natraja.<br />Throughout the book, we are brought back to North Carolina through flashbacks, being fed tiny bread crumbs of hints as to what has made Estelle-Natraja the miserable creature she now is.  The truth is bittersweet, indeed.<br />It wasn't until I was finished with the book that I came to learn that Peggy Payne is also a travel writer; that rings particularly true in this, her first work of fiction.  Her eye and ear for the &quot;foreign&quot; as we may know it are painfully true at times, and she unveils a world we can only hope to otherwise dream of.  Pick up a copy of this book and curl up with it in front of the fire.  It is a delight from the first sentence to the last but, if you're like me, you'll beg for more.	2001-02-05
US	47387331	R2N347FMA63K8X	0531054977	739155454	Tumble Tower	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Captivating illustrations are what make this the prize it is	The story of Tumble Tower is hardly throw-away - Princess Molly the Messy is almost despised by her family: King Clement the Clean, Queen Nellie the Neat, and Prince Thomas the Tidy.  Molly lives in the castle tower, where her room is beyond what most would considered &quot;a bit cluttered.&quot;  However, as we soon discover after the rest of the castle is flooded, even the messiest of rooms can be considered a safe, even comfortable haven.  Seeing life through Molly's eyes gives the rest of her family a sense of understanding, perhaps even empathy. <br />While Anne Tyler's story is very nice, I found the illustrations to be far more engaging.  There are hidden surprises in almost every page, and the characters are wittily, handsomely, and endearingly brought to life in a style that almost resembles the Saturday morning series &quot;Angela Anaconda.&quot;  <br />The kids will love having this book read to them again and again, and there's enough treasures spread throughout to make the parents most happy to oblige.	2001-02-03
US	47387331	R1NFLOHK65FDK1	0312131712	283370548	The Silent Angel: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Haunting	This book left me breathlessly wanting more.  Hans, a small, seemingly insignificant soldier, makes his way back home to a devastated Dresden after World War II.  He was to be executed, only to have his place voluntarily taken by a war correspondent. His task is to present the correspondent's note of his impending death to the man's wife, Frau Gompertz.  Once the note has been delivered, it is up to Hans to keep alive, no matter what the cost.<br />His own wife, we soon learn, died some years ago.  They had been just married when he was whisked off to fight.  They were only able to share a conjugal bed several months afterwards by the grace of some R&amp;R leave Hans was able to acquire.  Hans' recollections of these events, and the minute details of life before the war, make him finally appear human and to have emotions; prior to this, we are left to wonder if he is the silent angel in the title.<br />Boll expertly explores man's most base desires, from food and warmth to love and acceptance.  The warmth is gathered through several means - stealing coal, huddling around a candle, tucking in under a blanket, and feeling the warm breath of Regina, who may turn out to be his new love, his new hope and inspiration to keep living in what must certainly have been a hell on earth.<br />This book can't be reviewed fairly without giving a fond tip of the hat to Breon Mitchell.  He captures Boll's lyrical descriptions of the simplest of daily items, as well as the very sparing dialogue throughout which the entire story is interspersed.  The ending is sweet, almost heavy with imagery, and a perfect capsule for this little book about the little man named Hans.	2001-02-03
US	47387331	R1RBHUH7OCDSLB	0844242675	880762349	Roots of the Russian Language: An Elementary Guide to Wordbuilding (NTC Russian Series) (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	83	84	N	N	An Excellent WordbuildingTool!	This book of 450 different roots of the Russian language is the ultimate tool and guide to learning not only how to build your own words in conversation and in writing, but also (and I feel most importantly) in determining how to deconstruct words you pick up in reading and listening to better grasp their meaning.<br />Patrick could easily have stopped at simply providing the roots, as well as words built from those roots, but he also gives you sentences with the words in them as examples.  Last but not least, he provides a handful of exercises for practice at the end of the book.  <br />This book should be on the top shelf of every translator and/or student of the Russian language.	2001-02-03
US	47387331	R49794XS6PFJ3	0395137209	113049544	Lyle, Lyle, Crocodile (Lyle the Crocodile)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	You'll Love Lyle!	This story is one of my kids' favorites.  I'll admit, the first time I picked it up, I was a bit suspicious at the book's heft (48 pages for a tired parent at bedtime when it's the third book to read...well, you'll probably understand).  However, once I started reading it, I couldn't put it down.  The kids roared with laughter at the text, and the illustrations were things of beauty in and of themselves (you are able to read Lyle's palette of emotions with each new picture).<br />Lyle is the well-loved crocodile on 88th Street, but Mr. Gumps and Loretta, the cat, do NOT cotton to him at all.  In fact, without even trying, Lyle sends Loretta into fits.  On one tragic day, Lyle goes shopping downtown in Mr. Gumps' store, and causes a ruckus (by singing and dancing with his former owner, who happens to work at the store as well); the shoppers are happily sidtracted from the pajama sale, and Mr. Gumps alerts the police.  Lyle is quickly transported to the zoo, while his former owner is fired from his job at the store.<br />Lyle is despondent over the fact that he is to be relegated to live with the other crocodiles; he tries to warm up to them, but they are so...well, crocodilic.  He's soon set free by his former owner (who had then taken a job as a zoo custodian), and on his way back to 88th Street, sees that mean Mr. Gumps' apartment is on fire.  Lyle rushes in, rescues Gumps and Loretta, and is proclaimed the hero of the day.  <br />Great book; pick it up and read it to your kids today!	2001-02-02
US	47387331	R1BARLU7F56GFQ	0895262819	322297704	The China Threat: How the People's Republic Targets America	Books	4	22	32	N	N	A Very Approachable Book	I'll keep this review short and to the point, precisely because that's what the book is.  Twenty years of bumbling policies toward China have left our doors open for an impending (and, per Gertz, inevitable) switch and take.  We look to 2004 as the year when Taiwan changes its name from the Republic of China to the Republic of Taiwan, and thanks to (mostly) George Bush (the elder) and Bill Clinton (the philanderer), our hands will be tied when China lashes out with a series of short-range ballistic missile attacks on the newly born country.<br />Gertz's assumptions on Panama's role in the impending melee (which I believe are a bit heavy handed) are far outweighed by the known variables - Los Alamos, Wen Ho Lee, and the rest of the usual suspects are rounded up and dissected accordingly.  The results of the autopsy shows that the US stands to face a severe lesson in embarrassment unless strategic movements are enacted now.<br />This is a highly readable book, and it can be absorbed in the span of a few hours.  Pick it up today!	2001-02-02
US	47387331	R1YARWJ83ULUU4	0802787126	559531277	Hello, Lulu	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Vibrant and Alive!	This book is the perfect first book for reading to your child.  The colors come to life right off the page, the words are simple and few, and the characters' smiles almost immediately will bring a smile right back.  You can't help but love this book.<br />We are introduced to Lulu and her friends, as well as her pets.  She lives in a world we all would love to live in, where people of many races come together, smile together, and play together, all under a sunny and marvelously beautiful palette.  Caroline Uff has somehow been able to transform less than 50 words into a work of child-like splendor with her paintbrush.  <br />Read this book to your little ones; they will repeat the words back, and be able to &quot;read&quot; it to you by the third reading - that's a guarantee!  Come feed the dog and blow bubbles with Lulu and her friends today!	2001-02-02
US	47387331	R24Q76OKDSEXS2	0670871516	78452877	The Arrogance of Power: The Secret World of Richard Nixon	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Very interesting	This is what a lot of people consider a throw-away book; the subject of the book is dead and, as a result, defenseless; the others in the book have either remained mum on the topics contained therein by choice, or have fairly much said all that they want to say.  But still, after having lived through most of his political career, having watched as much of the Watergate testimonies live that I could stomach, having experienced the way the political landscape has changed as a result of his touch, I still didn't know what made Nixon tick.<br />After reading this book, the first answer that comes leaping to mind was the fact that Nixon simply didn't have the love and acceptance from his mother that a child needs.  Simplistic, probably Freudian, but in those few words you have the thrust of the entire book.  Now, obviously this sort of theory is realistically unprovable and far from original (remember Churchill's memoirs?) but the anecdotal evidence and other behind-the-scenes eyewitness accounts of Nixon's many ups and downs are riveting reading.<br />I found the hundred or so references to his aloof, almost cold attitude towards his long-suffering wife, Pat, particularly unsettling.  Not only in the later years, when Nixon was absorbed with the idea of himself as president (both during and after his term), but also shortly after the courtship had begun, Nixon appeared to have shunned all of Pat's attempts to show, and receive, affection.  There are times when you want to reach into the pages and shake the hell out of the guy.  By all appearances through these observations, Nixon was a very sad man from the moment he came out of the womb.<br />How this spilled into his political life is evident; the moments of back-stabbing, gorging himself on the very idea of power are spelled out in living color.  His sole apologist, and the closest thing Nixon had to having a true friend, Henry Kissinger, provides the counterweight to each argument; he provides his own excellent andsharply focused views on what, in the big picture, could have motivated Nixon in his daily attempts to overcome life's obstacles.  Vietnam was no picnic for anyone involved, but Nixon and Johnson were far more alike than anyone at the time even hoped to fathom.  Kissinger himself, through the words of the author, appears to simply sigh at the end of Nixon's life, when all is said and done.<br />It's a big book and well worth the read.	2001-02-01
US	47387331	R2V8D52Y0QFUWQ	0613044363	451316620	The Adventures Of Captain Underpants (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Whatever It Takes To Get Them Reading!	Hey, the kids are away from the Nintendo for a couple of hours a day!  Woo-hoo!  This is the reason.<br />I was first introduced to Dav Pilkey's work when I happily stumbled across the Dumb Bunnies eries (see my other reviews).  When my 8 year old son came home from school and asked if we could go to the book store, I expected it was to see if they had restocked their Pokemon cards.  Instead, he wanted to check out the Captain Underpants series.  I flipped through a couple of the pages, found myself laughing out loud in the store, and bought four of them off the bat.  What better barometer for a good book than that!<br />All of the kids have been enjoying the series; my son reads one a day (a hitherto unthinkable act in my house for him - ref Nintendo, Pokemon, etc.).  I'd sometimes wondered aloud to my wife how far we should go in allowing the kids to read with the proviso that &quot;Hey, it gets them reading.&quot;  Happily, for all of us, Captain Underpants falls well above the line, and not under it.	2001-02-01
US	47387331	R1LSFIPOVNE6IV	0966059727	683647337	When Hell Was in Session	Books	4	10	11	N	N	When Hell Was In Session	This is an extraordinary story of Denton's 7 years (4 of which were spent in solitary confinement) as a POW in Hanoi.  It is a remarkable tale of courage, strength, and the faith in one's country, fellow servicemembers, family, and God.  <br />Here, you will be afforded the opportunity to shake hands with some of the least savory characters ever put into print - Denton's captors.  Rat, Softsoap, Rabbit, Happy - all of them bringing new methods of torture to the table during what must certainly be layers deeper than hell.  Torture so horrific that, eventually, even two of the torturers themselves break down in tears.<br />No other book on captivity of this sort comes even close to showing the reader the despair, pain, humility, and guilt that wrack each of the heroes within the halls of the Hanoi Hilton.  The book is also full of the ingenuities displayed by each of the men in ensuring the lines of communication were always open in an incommunicado world.  The two most famous examples (the &quot;tap&quot; code and Denton's signaling the word &quot;TORTURE&quot; through Morse code blinking during a propaganda interview) are highlighted, as are the not-so-famous (notes buried deep within the plumbing, engraved on the dining utensils, semaphore by a makeshift flag through the roof of one building to contact others).<br />While reading the book, you can't help but ask yourself if you, too, would have been able to put up with the torture and starvation these men had to.  If nothing else, we are given the rare, perhaps rightly unsolicited, glimpse into the world that no one should ever have to live.	2001-01-31
US	47387331	RD5LYZ19XERXX	1929223064	632989683	The Tragedy of Russia's Reforms: Market Bolshevism Against Democracy	Books	5	15	23	N	N	Well-Written, Meticulously Researched, Outstanding Book	This is the book for anyone with a sense of placement (or the struggling lack thereof) and a taste for living history, but it's also a mandatory text for the market economists who predicted in 1990 that the former Soviet Union would be once again on top of the world by the 21st century, economically speaking.  After all, many argued, they had 80 years to sit by and scrutinize, study, and learn from the mistakes of the other capitalist states that bumped, lurched, and stumbled along.  But, as Heller once wrote, &quot;something happened along the way...&quot;<br />The book opens up with a brief history of the Russian (then Soviet, then Russian again) people; their track record of reform and reaction.  The next chapters explore theories behind pure capitalism versus pure democracy; presidents versus parliaments; dependency and co-existence throughout the entire planet; the many forms of nationalism throughout the expanding Russian national consciousness; and finally, the often painful consequences of economic globalization.<br />Further, we begin to explore what would become the collapse of the Soviet Union; Gorbachev's attempts at reformation and his apparent &quot;capitalistic&quot; frame of mind (to the chagrin of his CPSU handlers, from whom these leanings had been well-hidden, and for good reason).  The true heart of the book, however, opens with Yeltsin's &quot;economic revolution&quot; in 1991 (or '92, depending on where you lived).  The economic revolution, the authors feel, helped stave off what would have certainly been a political revolution for purer democracy - the nomenklatura had yet to provide any real reforms other than the opening and immediate snapping shut of the window on democracy that was Glasnost.  Unfortunately, Yeltsin's political and economic advisers had their sights set on higher aims, and weren't necessarily providing the soundest of information.  Further, it would appear that they felt Boris was nothing more than a stepping stone, that the global public would soon tire of his drunken shenanigans, and would have him disposed of far more easily (and quickly, and permanently) than his predecessor.<br />The cultural and moral decay brought about by Yeltsin's attempts at moving cabinet members around like pawns on a chess board are spelled out vividly.  The authors feel, however, that the situation is not beyond hope, and present evidence to support this claim.  <br />The reader should approach this book not as a sympathetic driver cruising along the highway, slowing down just enough to cast a furtive glance at a crash victim, then to speed up and leave the accident scene in the rear-view mirror.  There comes a time when the driver should pull over and offer what assistance can be provided, no matter what the immediate cost.  The rewards (whether spiritual, moral, or financial - that's up to the driver to decide) will be monumental.	2001-01-31
US	47387331	R26R6ODYJ4OLFG	074320123X	217916880	Reagan, In His Own Hand: The Writings of Ronald Reagan that Reveal His Revolutionary Vision for America	Books	4	14	22	N	N	Enlightening	Not to be confused with a comparable title, &quot;Reagan in His Own Words,&quot; this book offered little, at first glance, of the man who was the president.  We are given the opportunity to read speeches from his run-up to the 1980 election (mostly from 1975-1979).  The book offers Reagan's reflections on the military, the Cold War, World War II, as well as America's fingers in the African and Southeast Asian pies.  It could be read as a perfect draft for his plans to rule this nation through what would be the tumultuous 1980s.<br />Reagan, as most people know, wrote most of his own speeches; most are not aware, however, that he delivered more than 1000 speeches during the late 1970s.  Most of these texts are provided; they reflect his hopes to defeat Gerald Ford in the primary race, a race he would lose, and one which Ford would subsequently lose to Carter.  <br />This book might not solve any of the many Reagan riddles we've come to almost cherish as part of our history; his eccentricities will remain locked away forever, but this book can serve as a remarkable blueprint for the creation of the man he came to be.	2001-01-29
US	47387331	R2CBX377OB9L38	0786708050	628671303	Driving Lessons	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Another Contractual Obligation Out of the Way!	I'm not sure where the idea for this novella came from, but I suspect that McBain noted he still had another book on his contract with Carroll &amp; Graf, and needed to kick something out that would free him to pursue other, more profitable handshakes.   McBain writes so very much better than this book shows; please don't let this be your first Ed McBain read.  Here's the premise:  a female high school sophomore, out on a driving lesson with her driving instructor (who is primarily her art teacher) runs over and fatally injures a young woman leaving a church.  Several nifty Mystery Writer's Almanac elements are thrown in - the driving instructor gets out of the car, stumbling and acting drunk or high (in spite of his student's protests that he hadn't been drinking, and she hadn't seen him take any drugs); the church the woman was coming out of was NOT the one she frequented on Sundays; and, the show-stopper, the woman who was killed by the impact of the car turns out to be the instructor's wife.  Sounds like an excellent start to what should have been a great read.<br />However, the red herrings that are obligatory to even the best mystery writer were so blatantly obvious, you'll be able to sniff out the ending by page 20 (which, I will admit, is almost a third of the way through this 72-pager...yeah, 72 pages).  McBain didn't seem to know where to draw the line at character exploration - he spends more time defining the character, inside and out, who finds the dead woman's purse (and leads to her identity) than two of the main characters in the police station.  The further I read the book, the more frustrated I became.<br />The narrative is sparse, as a novella's narrative should be.  At times, however, it appears as though McBain isn't even aware that he's writing a novella; there are passages that seem to be well-fleshed out for what would have been the &quot;final product,&quot; vice what now appears to merely be an outline, not a complete story.<br />External to the story itself, I was somewhat puzzled by the choice of English (vice American) spellings and grammar usage (&quot;spoilt&quot; and &quot;an habitual...&quot; are the ones that immediately pop to mind).  This, married with the fact that the printed page surrounds dialogue with the apostrophe, rather than quotation marks (a tool used almost exclusively in British printing since the mid 1860s) made me look twice to see where the book was published.  I know:  Big deal, Misha; you didn't like the publishing run, either.  Well, it IS a big deal when all you have to work with are 72 shabby pages of what you know could have and should have been a much better book.	2001-01-26
US	47387331	R2CCREKNOZUI1Z	0465045901	212702260	Smash Mouth: Two Years In The Gutter With Al Gore And George W. Bush -- Notes From The 2000 Campaign Trail	Books	2	3	13	N	N	Har Har Har	Well, look at us, the American constituents.  What a bunch of knuckleheads we turned out to be, allowing ourselves to blindly chase after and faun for some of the biggest moronic toadies to ever hit the campaign trail.  At least, this appears to me to be the message that Milbank is shoving down our throats.  <br />Milbank is an extraordinary writer, I will give him that much.  In fact, I laughed almost as much at these stories as I did the FIRST time I read them in the Washington Post and the New Republic.  Rehashed anecdotes and thigh-slappers from as many as two and a half years ago, purporting to reveal what the candidates are really like when caught off-camera and away from the bag of sound bites they so frequently tote along with them.  <br />My main gripe with the book is that it IS a rehash, and perhaps that is being unfair to giving Milbank only three stars.  In ten years, when I pick the book up again and wipe most of the dried, caked-on spit from its cover, I may actually appreciate what it was that he was trying to tell me.  That we feed on hateful campaigning, that we delight and take no end of glee in the venomous rantings of candidate A after candidate B has let slip a less-than-flattering bon mot.<br />I doubt it.	2001-01-26
US	47387331	RDVKIRYSW51X7	0967996007	768814094	Understanding the Cold War: A Historian's Personal Reflections	Books	4	5	6	N	N	An enjoyable read	I have never read any of Professor Ulam's other works (I believe the tally ended at 18, with this book, after Ulam's death).  I had been told by several friends and colleagues that his were, if nothing else, a brilliant marriage of the scholarly and the approachable.  The latter is more the case here, wherein Ulam provides his life story, with the tumultuous changes in Europe (both East AND West) as the backdrop.<br />More than just a series of anecdotes strung together with a calendar, Ulam presents us with gripping and often moving tales from his past - including, most notably (to me), his departure from Poland at the age of 16, just six days before Hitler's invasion.  <br />This is a book I'll proudly display on my shelf; it's certainly not one I would have run out and bought the second it hit the shelves, but it was, like a roller-coaster ride through the rise and fall of the Soviet Union, a breathtaking journey, and one I'll revisit again and again.	2001-01-24
US	47387331	R88HCC4K08RMO	0801954843	262699951	Mystery of the Witch Who Wouldn't	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Platt's Best Outing	Anyone who's read Kin Platt knows to expect a tight, sometimes humorous, always spine-tingling adventure with a bit of psychological daring-do thrown in for good measure.  This time, Steve and Sinbad are out to solve the mystery of all mysteries.  By all appearances, all of the &quot;clues&quot; seem to be in Steve's head when, before you know it, Minerva's dad meets the business end of a time bomb, Steve finds an old neighbor under the spell of Mandrake (a bracelet made of a mandragora root), Herk and Steve stumble onto the witch who wouldn't (for her own reasons), and a platinum blonde who looks older than she should, along with a legendary Hollywood vampire, do their best to ensure Steve and Sinbad are out of their hair forever.<br />Sign up for the waiting list, and spend your spare time cloud-busting while you wait for this outstanding book.  You'll be glad you did!	2001-01-21
US	47387331	R3H6SMJSA5E0XR	0689820801	319696444	Swan in Love	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A lovely book	If you have children of any age, chances are you're already aware that Eve Bunting is an author of high quality, regardless of the age for which she is writing.  Marry that particular caveat with the fact that this book is also illustrated magnificently by the no-less-superb Jo Allen McAllister Stammen, and you're in the ballpark for a winner.<br />&quot;Swan in Love,&quot; however, tends to be a bit heavy handed for my tastes.  The swan in the title, Swan, is in love with a swan-shaped boat with the name &quot;Dora&quot; painted on her.  Swan has to endure the ridicule from the other swans, frogs, and fish in and on the lake.  Rather than flying south for the winter, Swan watches as Dora is pulled from the lake, and sits by, taking up guard.<br />Inevitably, and predictably, Dora starts to become a little run down.  In fact, it looks as though Dora's days as a boat are finished; her return to the lake one spring reveals too many leaks to allow her to stay in the water.  She is pulled out, much to the distress of Swan.<br />The ending of the book is confusing to some children; after a small amount of explaining, they tend to &quot;get it,&quot; but still are a bit disturbed by the fact that the love expressed throughout the book is all in Swan's head.  The lesson being taught is that love, even unrequited love, is fine; it will be returned, even if only in your imagination.  <br />I know, the actual lesson of the book is far less shallow than that, but I can only echo the sentiments of my own kids.  Questions such as &quot;How come it didn't show the other swans that might have loved Swan as much as he loved Dora?&quot;  <br />Swan isn't unloveable, and neither is the book.  Pick it up and read it to your kids; it should engage them in some insightful conversation, if nothing else.	2001-01-21
US	47387331	RUTHELWS64NC6	0722176783	689692368	History of Torture	Books	4	10	11	N	N	What a delightful read!	Well, this isn't the sort of book you find yourself reading to the kiddies, that's for sure.  This book, first published in 1940, approaches torture through the ages by looking into the psychological aspects of the act itself, history, and technique.  Mass torture, prison torture, masochism, sadism, self-torture, crucifixion, water torture (the real one, not the silly crap you see on television), squassation - it's all here, in vivid detail, along with enough illustrations to put it on the top shelf when the in-laws are over.<br />Scott approached this work sympathetically.  He writes that the work is presented to inform, not titillate.  He argues that only by recognizing the cruelties inflicted in the past can we hope to eliminate them in the future.<br />330 pages of very interesting reading, and well worth putting yourself on the waiting list for.	2001-01-21
US	47387331	R1H8FWJRP5IIPQ	1841480525	114398417	The Elephants' Ears	Books	4	3	4	N	N	What a beautiful, delightful surprise!	It's difficult to pin down what brings forth the magic of this magnificent book - the poetry in the simple, unpretentious prose, or in the sympathetic, perfectly accomodating illustrations.  This is the first book I've read by Ms. Chambers, and I will scour the shelves for her other works.  My kids loved this book, and I fell in love with it as well.<br />The story is about Palo and Mala, a pair of twin elephants who couldn't be more different.  Palo is gentle, almost timid, and loving.  Mala is wild, carefree, and energetic.  The twins' mother is concerned that she won't be able to find a life suitable for the two of them.  By book's end, we find that it is acceptable to embrace our differences, rather than attempt to stifle them.  The elephant twins are to be given their own, very different settings for their very different lives, and the reader soon learns that all elephants will be the recipients of their good fortune.<br />This book touches the children on so many levels.  Not only are kids taught that we can be different and still be loved, but we can also be important for our differences.  The kids may wind up learning a bit about how to tell the difference between Indian and African elephants, too, if they're not careful!<br />An exceptional book for every child's shelf.	2001-01-21
US	47387331	R90K1VS73T7S3	0688091504	254811657	George	Books	2	0	0	N	N	What the hell IS this?	Mr. Borovsky, I know that you wrote this over 12 years ago, and I understand that this was your first outing in the world of writing and illustrating children's books.  But please, Mr. Borovsky, what the blazes were you thinking when you wrote this?<br />The artwork is fantastic - I found myself laughing as hard as the kids were, especially at the picture of grandfather's reaction to the elephant when it first spoke.  In fact, both of the stars I gave you were for the artwork alone.  I couldn't find any stars in my heart for the storyline, however.<br />For the uninitiated:  George is a dog who belongs to a little boy named Peter, whose grandfather is a zookeeper.  George went with Peter to school, so it's inevitable that the dog starts speaking one day.  Peter keeps this a secret while George teaches the animals at the zoo to speak and read, as well.  Eventually, the animals reveal their new abilities, and the various critters teach the others their own talents - the birds teach the snakes to sing, the own taught math, and the bears taught a dancing class.  After a while, George appears to become bored with it all, and simply leaves.  The other animals chart George's progress around the world (based, we must suppose, on the postcards he sends back to Peter), and two pages after George leaves, he's back again.  End of book.  <br />A prime example of an excellent idea with nowhere to go.  Borovsky paints himself into an untidy little corner, and rather than work himself out of it, he simply creates an unnecessary deviation from the plot, and he and his agent are the happier for it.  How Greenwillow Books was strong-armed into publishing this, I'll never know, but it's somehow nastily pleasing to see it's now out of print.	2001-01-21
US	47387331	R1LSYBE5G3LOYS	0060391626	406344440	I Know This Much Is True	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Poetic?  No.  Lyrical?  Yes.	Let's face it - no one picking up &quot;I Know This Much Is True&quot; is going to be forced to tackle new ideas, introduce new words into their vocabulary, or swallow new medicine for age old plot devices.  However, the casual reader isn't aware of this until the last page is closed, if he becomes aware of it at all.  This is a very nicely written book, accessible to anyone with a desire to investigate beyond the beautiful cover photograph (yeah, that's what drew me to the book; what of it??)<br />For the most part, the plot is fairly predictable, down to the last page.  However, Lamb magnificently anticipates this, and allows the reader to be treated as an adult.  There are no &quot;Crying Game&quot; surprises thrown in our face; twists and ironies are introduced intelligently, and not rubbed into our faces.  Only one time did I miss one of the &quot;twist clues,&quot; when Thomas (the paranoid schizophrenic of the two twins) reveals that he may just have some insight as to who his father is.  It's all tied in with the rest of Thomas's &quot;I'm mentally unbalanced&quot; dialogue, so it's easy to miss.<br />Does the book miss at all?  Yeah, but only to a small extent, and you have to read through it to surpass it.  When Dominic's grandfather's narrative is interspersed throughout the second half of the book, I initially found myself oh-godding every time the typeface changed for another set of Sicilian revelations.  However, I found myself quickly poring through these pages for plot and character as the primary story.  Time flows fluidly, albeit in many directions, throughout the book.  Maddeningly at times, but not without a good payoff in the end.<br />Read this book, and enjoy it.  Take your time with it so you can enjoy not the stilted and pedantic scribbling that is so easy to find from Lamb's contemporaries, but honestly lyrical magic on the paper.	2001-01-15
US	47387331	RIYFTLCVV4V94	0871968126	688425440	Waiting Games: How to Get Rich, Powerful, Sexy and Healthy While You're Killing Time	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Find this book!	How sad to see that this amazing little gem is out of print.  The subtitle - &quot;How to Get Rich, Powerful, Sexy, &amp; Healthy While You're Killing Time&quot; says it all.  It's simply a little cerebral and physical exercise book for those moments when you are in between tasks.  Waiting at a red light, watching TV, in the grocery store, waiting to fall asleep, etc.  Ziegler's illustrations alone are worth the price of the book.<br />It's more than just a facial toning, flex-your-thighs-while-the-spin-cycles-finishes sort of book.  There are helpful tidbits on self-confidence, motivation, and stress relief.  If you can, find a copy of this book, buy it, and cherish it.  I've owned my copy since 1983, and have treasured it since the first time I opened its cover.	2001-01-15
US	47387331	R1OOU9J4QCPJC9	0689823975	643694713	Bedhead	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The Kids Loved It; I Have Reservations	Readers of my other reviews will know that my kids can be the toughest critics there are.  This book was a slight exception - they loved it from cover to cover.  On the other hand, I wasn't quite so easily moved.<br />Don't get me wrong - it's a great idea for a kid's book, and easily something we can all relate to:  Oliver wakes up to find his hair is less than perfect.  Every attempt by him and his family to treat the hair makes life (and Oliver's hair) more and more miserable.  Finally, Oliver realizes all he's got to do is don a baseball cap (who HASN'T done this among us, men?), and trots off to school.<br />Once Oliver gets to school, one of his classmates takes glee in pointing out that today is picture day, and that Oliver will have to take the hat off.  When it's time for posing with the entire class, the hat comes off, and the hair ... well, I'll not ruin the ending for those of you who have yet to pick up the book.<br />Ok, so why didn't I like it?  For one thing, the book is busy.  The words themselves are busy, and the artwork, while exceptional, contains just a hair too many distractions for the ordinary adult reader.  Again, the kids loved it, and after all, who's the book going to be for?<br />Harmless fun that engaged the target audience for (groan) at least a dozen readings; I'll begrudgingly allow four stars.	2001-01-15
US	47387331	R3OPDUARQ0M499	0590477099	497240716	The Dumb Bunnies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Embarrassed to admit to laughing out loud	Ever pick up one of &quot;those&quot; books, where the humor is so basal, the puns and inside jokes so primitive, you find yourself almost barking with laughter, in spite of yourself?  This is one of &quot;those&quot; books, I'm afraid.  The library patrons were met with my sheepish glances after I gave it a cursory preview as bedtime reading for my 5-year-old.  The youngster picks his nose, the sight gags are awful, and the father bunny gets to wear the coolest underwear, just like it should be in real life.  An excellent introduction to a hilarious series of books.  Hats off to Denim and Pilkey!	2000-12-04
US	47387331	R1KWHMKF2C8EFH	0590929976	945438436	A Bad Case Of Stripes	Books	5	11	13	N	N	A modern classic!	Well, I was cruising through the library stacks, looking for the author of &quot;No, David!&quot; (another outstanding book) when I came across this piece of magic.  The illustrations are works of art, the writing is tight and lyrical, the dialogue is beyond what you would expect to find in writing for &quot;mere children.&quot;  Cross &quot;Madeline&quot; with Roald Dahl and you've got an idea of what you're in store for!<br />The story, if you haven't gleaned it from other reviews, is that Camilla has decided to be untrue to herself by denying herself her one great love in life - lima beans by the steaming plateful.  As a result of the obvious internal angst over her leguminous desire and her need to do what she perceives as cool, her body rebels and does the most uncool thing of all - it covers itself in a rainbow of stripes.  Things get worse when Camilla is allowed by the family doctor to go to school - the stripes start shifting colors and shapes at the whim of the other students.  Eventually, she is forced to stay home, thanks to the voiced concerns of frightened parents.  The final showdown comes as pandemonium erupts when the local television stations discover this oddity in their town. <br />This book will charm children of all ages - my ten-year-old couldn't believe what she was hearing from her sister's bedroom as I read it aloud before bedtime.  Grab this book and embrace it as the treasure it is.	2000-12-04
US	47387331	R131X9ZYQJ3DR9	0374226024	716195650	Highlanders : A Journey to the Caucasus in Quest of Memory	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The definitive guide to life and death in the Caucasus	A magnificent read, with a gentle poetry all its own.  This meticulously reasearched book is an absolute must-read (no, a must-own) for anyone with a thirst for history or the world in which we live today.  You will learn more about the post-Soviet Caucasus republics and their indigenous peoples than by reading any other COLLECTION of works.  Karny has obviously spent time among his subjects, and his respect for each (by our standards) idiosyncracy shines through his writing.  Read this book, and you will never read another news report on the war in Chechnya again.	2000-12-04
US	47387331	R2RR6FM6Z8CW0V	0684857995	247300800	An Invitation To The White House : At Home With History	Books	4	28	32	N	N	A Surprisingly Likeable Book	Well, this was NOT what I expected when I received my copy.  This is a well-written, intelligently conceived book that has the reader in a quandary as to whether one should linger over the engaging photographs, or keep flipping the pages to read more about the &quot;House&quot; itself (did you know that 40 layers of paint have just been stripped from the exterior of the White House?).  There's also an 80-something page selection of recipes of appetizers and entrees served at State Dinners and other White House functions.  What more could you ask for?<br />Another startling discovery was that, in the midst of Mrs. Clinton's senatorial campaign imbroglio, she was able to show herself not only as a savvy politician, but also as an interior decorator and social hostess for the &quot;most visited residence of a chief of state in the world.&quot;  <br />No, Rush Limbaugh and G. Gordon Liddy will most likely not trot out to purchase this book, but this would make an excellent gift for anyone with a sense of style, a purveyance of good taste, and a feel for history, political viewpoints notwithstanding.  My only complaint with the book is its somewhat off-setting list price, as well as the bit of back-patting Mrs. Clinton allows herself.  However, after eight years under the world's microscope, I suppose she deserves a couple of good pats now and then.	2000-11-28
US	47387331	R140YD9EBPDHTR	0375420576	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	5	13	15	N	N	This book IS Germany	I read &quot;The Tin Drum&quot; while spending my second of eight years in Berlin (then West Berlin), and felt as though the book transported me back in time to a more dangerous place for adults and children alike.  To see World War II and its aftermath through the eyes of an adult revisiting his childhood (wherein he vowed to never grow up) while actually living in the city that had been the heart of it all was an overwhelming experience, and as such, I suspect others picking this book up for the first time may not glean the same enjoyment from it as I did.<br />By now, most are already aware that the story focuses on the narrator, Oskar, who decides to stop growing in order to keep his drum and his child-like innocence untainted forever.  The drum quickly requires replacing, as Oskar constantly bangs on it to the point that the tin is worn thin and eventually punctured.  While the drum can be replaced easily, the innocence that also is worn thin and punctured by the horrors of the impending war cannot be so easily replaced.  As the book (and war) progresses, Oskar matures cerebrally, but not emotionally or physically.  In one of the book's subplots, when his hormones catch up to his true age during a bittersweet attempt at a love affair with his nanny, in spite of himself, Oskar discovers that quite possibly he has made a mistake in causing himself to stop growing.<br />The drum itself reaches out metaphorically on many levels; does Oskar represent Germany after World War I, with the drum being the Treaty of Versailles?  Or is the drum itself Germany, damaged and repaired (or replaced) throughout history?  There are many puzzles and questions left up to the reader's imagination throughout this book.  I highly encourage anyone with a taste for literature, albeit at times disturbing, to pick up this book and not put it down until you have read every page therein.  It is one of the ten best ever written, no kidding.	2000-11-22
US	47387331	R3EY1MV73182BS	0060274484	726965633	Sally's Christmas Miracle	Books	2	2	2	N	N	An insignificant tome	In this little book, which reads as though it were slapped together with as much as ten minutes' thought process, Sally Brown admires a neighbor's pine tree; it's perfect in size and shape, and is (by her accounts) begging to be decorated in her house.  The dilemma - it's in the neighbor's yard, not hers.  She hopes for a miracle, and hey presto!  The tree falls, and Sally feels that it belongs to her.  No dilemma, no mental anxieties over removing the tree, it simply belongs to her.  The &quot;showdown&quot; between Sally and the neighbor is a remarkable display of mediocrity.<br />My kids, bless their hearts, hated the book.  However, I can't give any kisd' book less than two stars because, if nothing else, it gets them reading.  Sheesh.	2000-11-21
US	47387331	R2RO7DR85MMJTF	0375811036	134410880	How the Grinch Stole Christmas! Movie Storybook	Books	3	7	11	N	N	The meaning of Christmas	Hey, remember in the original &quot;How the Grinch Stole Christmas,&quot; about two pages before the Grinch's heart grows three sizes, when he realizes that Christmas (just maybe) doesn't come from a store?  Oh well.  Further proof that &quot;Grinch&quot; is nothing more than a fairy tale.  This book, along with the other 4000 merchandising gimmicks we've been inundated with, can be easily dismissed by the public that doesn't come into contact with children on a daily basis; for those of us with kids, all it takes is one read-through of this book, and the youngsters will be cured of all things Grinch-like.  The book is a pseudo photo album of the Grinch, as presented by the two &quot;Old Biddies&quot; who raised him until he ran off to live in his cave (a plot development which, I suppose, came from the movie).  Sigh.  Luckily for me, my kids were bored within the first ten pages; if nothing else, they no longer ask for Grinch merchandise, making this book not entirely worthless.  Hence my three stars for an otherwise one-star accomplishment.  And the buzzing you hear in the background is the sound of Dr. Seuss whirling dervishly in his grave.	2000-11-20
US	47387331	R2XJV1AVTI0IDL	0740700251	654973256	You Are Worthless: Depressing Nuggets of Wisdom Sure to Ruin Your Day	Books	3	0	6	N	N	Ooooh, Biting Witty Cleverness!  Wowee.  (Yawn...)	Well, well, well.  The perfect book for cynics like me.  Not because it's a great book (it's not), but because it gives us the opportunity to chuckle at these little turds of faux wisdom that describe so many people less perfect than the corporate &quot;us&quot;.  Consider any of the attempts at creating sack-smackingly hilarious nuggets - and there are literally hundreds of them that will make you laugh out loud - and compare them to the fillers that do nothing more than promote ugly thoughts and hateful self-loathing in even the most self-confident:  &quot;You will spend the rest of your life alone,&quot; &quot;You are a loser,&quot; and &quot;People who have kids are idiots.&quot;  Please, anyone, some thread to stitch my sides back up.  The book is only so-so, if for no other reason than these hateful barbs are scattered haphazardly throughout.  (Yeah, I know...  I must not &quot;get it,&quot; right?)  What's next, guys?  A book of funny names from the NYNEX phone book?  Wacky amputee photos?  Spare me.	2000-11-20
US	47387331	RVPIUYSGU39FH	0312866321	163883772	Dark Sister	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Good First Graham Joyce Outing	A worthy effort by Mr. Joyce, particularly if this is your first introduction to his fiction.  The book never lets up, from the first page on, in spite of what I feel was a clumsy and rushed final three chapters.  If this sort of book is your cuppa, try Dennis Wheatley's &quot;The Devil Rides Out.&quot;  Dated, but consistent.	2000-11-20
