US	47386533	R1KCCYQEGMQ7Z	0064405370	607344832	The Chronicles of Narnia: The Magician's Nephew/The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe/The Horse and His Boy/Prince Caspian/Voyage of the Dawn Treader/The Silver Chair/The Last Battle	Books	4	15	33	N	N	A gem of children's literature, but for adults?	Let me say one thing: these books are highly escapist fantasy. Now whether or not that's a good thing is debatable.<br />Lewis was a friend of Tolkiens, and they were friends at college. However, Lewis differs from Tolkiens writing quite a bit. First of all, his stories are more allegorical, with a biblical theme. Also his stories are more accessible to children, who will most likely have fond memories of them. I read these books at a relatively mature age (30s) and see them slightly differently.<br />The stories themselves are gems of children's literature. They have a magic all their own. I could relate to the heroes somewhat, and the entertainment factor is very high. As a fun read, these books are worth it.<br />However, to me they seemed less readable by adults than some other 'children's books'. Firstly, the books are very comforting, with absolute good and evil tht a child may need but an adult should not. I was somewhat annoyed by that, because personally I don't believe in absolute morality. Furthermore, the stories show us heaven as the ultimate goal, and our heroes who will buy passage by their spiritual superiority. Along the way, the real world is portrayed as a sort of second-best to heaven. At one point the old professor says &quot;It's all in Plato&quot; meaning the physical world is a shadow on the wall of the real suff. Its not very provoking (as the best art should be). You can easily sympathize with the good guys and deplore the badguys. For these reasons I wouldn't give the book a 5 star rating, which I reserve for a very few books that I consider masterpieces.<br />Children should be introduced to this series, as they will probably love it. I don't know about adults who haven't read it before.<br />PS If you like this series and want a completely opposite view, read Pullman's His Dark Materials.	2000-11-09
US	47386533	R2M7DP5MKE3RB8	0812534050	551495323	The Magic Engineer ( A novel in The saga of Recluce)	Books	1	5	11	N	N	Tedious to the point of losing its message	The series started out with a little promise. Unfortunately this book squanders whatever little promise it had to become a tedious descriptive book with practically nothing happening until the last 20 pages. <br />Some said a 'book for thinkers'. Just becuase its totally devoid of action doesn't mean serious thinking is going on (its not). Instead we have endless descriptions of EATING. How some minor character looks while slowly chewing lamb, the texture of crusty bread, the shape of the wine glass and the flavor of the wine, etc. THROUGHOUT the book.<br />At the beginning our protagonist is banned because chaos is banned on Recluse, and his machines are apparently believed to cause the same. So he is banished to an island. Now, for 400 pages we get the above-mentioned descriptive bonanza which isn't fun, provocative, thoughtful or anything else other than boring. A book doesn't have to be action-packed to be interesting, or vice versa, but this book is neither. Then in the last 20 pages, slam-bang the wbad-guys are dead.<br />In other words this book is not worth anyone's while, unless they like constant descriptions of food.	2000-11-09
US	47386533	R358PX7DQ0NG1F	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent Sci-fi read	This was truly a classic Sci-fi book. Frank Herbert has created a whole new world to get lost in, and boy is it interesting. Imaginative ideas abound throughout and the plot is very tightly woven. A whole galaxy is out there involved in the conflicts the book presents and the different houses are well-portrayed. <br />My only wish is that we had more Frank herbert books in this series and less books by his son and a hack Star Wars writer.	2000-11-08
US	47386533	R1LVPEWWYC7TG5	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	1	45	67	N	N	Let's Rally Around the flag!	Looks like the diehard Robert Jordan fans, afraid for the series  after the absolute BS that was books 7 and 8, finally have something to rally around. Thats because this book is actually better than Path of Daggers! Yes! Unfortunately its not much better. Why has this series turned to mud after book5, it started out with so many fans. Now the only people left going are those who are thrilled to hear that Nynaeve still tugs her hair when angry.<br />The book is worth half a star, really (half a star more than Path of Daggers). It actually brings some major plotlines NEAR conclusion (i.e. Kinslayer) but Jordan is still dragging things out. Looks like the only reason the series is so drawn out is because Jordan wants to build up the suspense. Wow, Rand is hearing things again, there's a new one. Will he go mad? No one knows, and probably wont for a Long Long time. He seems perfectly sane apart from this occasional 'voice-hearing' thrown in. Apart from that there is STILL no major theme building! Its like a history book of Randland. with some decorations.<br />The female characters apart from Min are as annoying as ever, and as badly drawn as ever. The Aes Sedai are STILL up to their dumb schemes. Can't ANYONE get along in this world? The people who hate the Dark One haven't yet decided to actually FIGHT him instead of just talk. And its book 9.<br />Well, if you're a crazy Jordan fan (and I know some) then yea you'll probably love this book, its only a little better than Book8. But if you were really disappointed by the books after Book5, then don't bother. Don't put yourself through the pain.	2000-11-08
US	47386533	RUB9O4RMQZ2GI	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	1	19	90	N	N	Come on, what a disappointment	Why do the authors in the fantasy have this new 'cool trend' of writing huge 'epic' series filled basically with subplots and only a nebulous main theme?All the so-called 'fantasy kings'- Jordan, Terry Goodkind and now GRR Martin have disappointed me greatly. The 'epic' style is very unsatisfactory, more like a soap opera than an epic. Tolkien wrote epic and grand stories, but were they neverending, rambling creations? I had more hopes for this particular series but the author appears to be squandering it away with another Jordan-like fiasco. If you want tightly woven, well-written fantasy, don't expect to be satisfied here. Look at Pullman's provocative and beautiful His Dark Materials, or Ursula K Leguin's thoughtful trilogy. Or go back to the major figure in the genre, Tolkien, and see why these authors are worth reading. These books are more like Swords-and-sorcery Grisham then fantasy. The genre really is going downhill.	2000-11-07
US	47386533	R2ACNK79TXWYZC	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	3	1	2	N	N	An entertaining read, but merely mediocre	Although not one of Clancy's better novels, this novel was quite entertaining (if only at a shallow level). The plot isn't too stunning; its standard thriller far- Chinese intrigues, missile attacks. Clancy's trademark style is apparent through the book, which is the primary quality distinguishing it from other run-of-the-mill action novels. Another good point about the book is that its a Jack Ryan book, which satisfied me, a long-time Ryan fan.<br />If you liked Clancy you'll probably like the book. But if you're not a fan of shallow action novels don't expect to be enthralled.	2000-11-07
US	47386533	R3A9DO31S1Y5V0	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	17	31	N	N	Paranoid philosphy	This book which is part of Ayn Rand's 'philosphy' obejctivism is another example of Orwellian literature capitalizing on Anti-communist fears. I've read two of her works (this and the short story Anthem) and found them both distasteful.<br />Yes, individualism and free will are important, and people know it. But at the moment, I don't believe that the kind of world she depicts is going to come about (or the sort that Orwell espouses in 1984, which is very similar). But doesn't she believe that an individual has ANY responsibility towards society? What is society for? We might as well live in our individual caves and stay there, and human progress would be dust. Our greatest endeavours require teamwork, and cooperation, and sacrifice. If she expects us to worship the Ego, I would demur. When I think of civic virtue I don't think of mindless masses 'working for their brothers' without the spark of initiative. I think of decent and good citizens, who are willing to make a few sacrifices to better their society and thus themselves, who are a part of that society. There is a BALANCE. there is no need to be totally paranoid about it, only caution is needed. In BOTH directions, in fact.<br />Don't mindlessly subscribe to Ayn Rand's Objectivism cult. Moderation in all things is good, no less in philosophy.	2000-11-06
US	47386533	R3OCRNTINF61GY	0812513754	861837137	Lord of Chaos (The Wheel of Time, Book 6)	Books	1	13	21	N	N	There's a quality called brevity	These books are now apparently being churned out for the purpose of making money for Mr. Jordan, or else we are getting Mr. jordan's 'stream of consciousness' as he writes these books. To state it simply in a few words- this book is filled with the same boring stuff over and over again, for 900 pages.<br />The point is, Long does not equal Good, as some people idiotically assume. The dictionary is long, but does it make for good reading? Do I read for the sake of reading endless descriptions? I love reading, and I have been an avid reader since the age of 7. Unfortunately that doesn't mean I like to waste time reading about the following:<br />Rand wanders the countryside making and breaking alliances. The Aes Sedai bicker, complain about men, and scheme. The Dark One laughs hideously in the background and plans evil machinations.<br />That about summarizes the plot. The rest of the book is filler. I can read descriptions, but if that's all a book is, there's something wron with it. I don't want to know exactly what everyone eats for dinner every day, or what their hemline is. I don't like reading pages of &quot;Ninaeve tugged her hair&quot; &quot;Elayne smoothed her skirt&quot;(how many times has that sentence been used in the series?!) &quot;Rand didn't understand women&quot; etc.<br />This book is turning into a boring teenage soap opera where various people try to enter into various relationships and bicker and quarrel and are petulant and jealous CONSTANTLY. If you want to read that, go ahead. If you want good fantasy look somewhere else.	2000-11-05
US	47386533	R1NS0D4FFYEP7F	0812550307	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (The Wheel of Time, Book 5)	Books	1	4	10	N	N	A teenage soap opera	By this time this series has squandered what potential it had and become little more than a teenage soap opera, and a bad one at that. Our intrepid characters once again bravely wander the countryside, occasionally taking the trouble to slay a number of really scary Trollocs, still apparently the most common enemy. We have budding 'relationships' abounding- Elaine might love Rand, but so might Aviendha... etc. <br />Some find this exciting, but I don't, and by this time I'm tired of this series. It has none of the scope of Tolkien's grand work, or Pullman's beautiful His Dark Materials. There's nothing driving it forward, hardly anything holding it together but a final conflict with the 'Dark One'. For such a simple plot this series is astonishingly long. And, just because its long doesn't mean it has anything good about it(as many readers erroneously assume). Most of the book is full of sterile and pointless details and descriptions. If I wanted to read a bad soap opera/history book of Randland I would pick this up, but for no other reason.	2000-11-05
US	47386533	R33U4WTSJNTBC5	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A beautiful book, but with its own flaws	I really liked Lord of the Rings, it has been my favorite fantasy series. Unfortunately they ended way too soon for my tastes, as I did want to read more about this wonderful land that Tolkien created in LOTR. With the Silmarillion I got my chance to once again explore this world. And while I was a bit disappointed, because it didn't live up to all of my high expectations, I was also thrilled by this narration of the past of Middle Earth and the surrounding lands. <br />A problem with the book is its rather uninteresting beginning. It starts out nicely, although its basically like Paradise Lost. Then it bogs down in the names of various gods and godesses which I had a hard time keeping track of (by this time its mixing Greek and Norse myths with the Christian theme). After this it rather picks up its pace and grows more interesting. The tales of the elves are strong and emotional, and are a mythology all their own.<br />Unfortunately the book's second and major problem soon becomes apparent. The tales are not covered in depth enough. Instead of all these short and involving tales, I wish he had written several novels covering them in depth. For example, the tale of Beren and the Silmaril could easily have covered as much ground as LOTR, but it only receives 60 pages or so. I understand the problems, given that Tolkien was dead, but I think it could at least have been expanded to include more information on these stories. <br />Other than that, this book is really good. Anyone who enjoys mythology will love this book as it provides beautiful yet melancholy pictures of a world decaying from grace. The only problem: I wish it were longer!	2000-11-05
US	47386533	R2YAYPV8Z5UBIV	0395974682	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	3	7	17	N	N	A classic, but not perfect, Tolkien isn't the God of Fantasy	I know its popular to praise Tolkien as something like the God of Fantasy, but I have to dsagree. Although he did have a major hand in starting the fantasy genre (he really isn't the creator), and his books are good, their not flawless.<br />Its true he has written a compelling series. the world is beautifully drawn and the epic involves you. The language is well-constructed and lyrical. The major strength of the series is its theme. Although Tolkien claims otherwise, his quest can be interpreted to have allegorical meanings. In my own reading, the Ring symblolizes technology, which all want; (but in Tolkien's view, and this view is apparent in his other writings) however it also corrupts. There is a beauty in the theme.<br />There are however, numerous problems. The series is highly Eurocentric (hm.. Proud, strong, light Northerners like Aragorn; weak, corrupt dark Southerners and Easterners like the Easterlings). Not only this but Tolkien's literature is highly nostalgic and yearning for a better past when 'giants' (as in heroes) walked the land. Tolkien apparently detested change which is inevitable. And change is certainly not all bad. His characters are always bursting into song and telling great tales of the PAST while the great deeds being done at present are largely ignored or downplayed.<br />Most annoying though, was the change of style. The beginning starts out like the Hobbit, in the sort of style that children's tales have (Tolkien even addresses the reader directly sometimes, a device almost exclusively confined to children's books or confessionals). Midway through the first book, the tone abruptly changes and we are left with a darker (and more suitable) tone that continues to grow darker and drearier. By the time Frodo was getting near Mordor I felt like kicking him, I was so tired of the author's continuous description him as weary, weak, tired, half-dead.<br />The ending too was highly nostalgic which may be beautiful for a while but quickly grows tedious. Not a single ray of optimism shone as the Elves departed to leave the world for Man.<br />Although this book is a must-read for fantasy enthusiasts, don't fall into the cult and think of Tolkien as the incomparable God of Fantasy without thinking about the book.tedious. Not a single ray of optimism shone as the Elves departed to leave the world for Man.<br />Although this book is a must-read for fantasy enthusiasts, don't fall into the cult and think of Tolkien as the incomparable God of Fantasy without thinking about the book.	2000-11-05
US	47386533	R1YQJ7MKO1OOFR	0345325818	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	31	44	N	N	A beautiful book, but with its own flaws	I really liked Lord of the Rings, it has been my favorite fantasy series. Unfortunately they ended way too soon for my tastes, as I did want to read more about this wonderful land that Tolkien created in LOTR. With the Silmarillion I got my chance to once again explore this world. And while I was a bit disappointed, because it didn't live up to all of my high expectations, I was also thrilled by this narration of the past of Middle Earth and the surrounding lands. <br />A problem with the book is its rather uninteresting beginning. It starts out nicely, although its basically like Paradise Lost. Then it bogs down in the names of various gods and godessed which I had a hard time keeping track of (by this time its mixing Greek and Norse myths with the Christian theme). After this it rather picks up its pace and grows more interesting. The tales of the elves are strong and emotional, and are a mythology all their own.<br />Unfortunately the book's second and major problem soon becomes apparent. The tales are not covered in depth enough. Instead of all these short and involving tales, I wish he had written several novels covering them in depth. For example, the tale of Beren and the Silmaril could easily have covered as much ground as LOTR, but it only receives 60 pages or so. I understand the problems, given that Tolkien was dead, but I think it could at least have been expanded to include more information on these stories. <br />Other than that, this book is really good. Anyone who enjoys mythology will love this book as it provides beautiful yet melancholy pictures of a world decaying from grace. The only problem: I wish it were longer!	2000-11-05
US	47386533	R3PNWL2O93RUUG	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A beautiful read	The Amber Spyglass is a fitting end to His Dark Materials. yet it manages to be so much more than just an adventure story. It draws heavily from Paradise Lost, but the point of view given is all its own. The book is also very beautiful at times, with a grandeur in its theme that lights up the whole book (and the series). One reviewer called the theme of the book its main weakness. I would like to present the opposite view. The major theme is that Judeo-Christian values are always questionable as to their effects and validity(not their intent). While the religion may not be meant a certain way (I am pretty sure pacifist Christ never wanted wars fought in his name) it is always distorted by believers. This is the main danger of organized religion as shown by the Amber Spyglass. One may say that religion can be so much more in people's lives, but only if that person is willing to accept a faith without evidence because it makes him 'feel better'. <br />When the Amber Spyglass shows us this picture of organized religion, you may call it a 'straw man' and say that the book doesn't prove or disprove its theme, simply asserts it. Unfortunately it is very difficult to prove a theme that applies to our world without real historical examples, and in a fantasy world that's not possible. If the author makes up a history, it is just that- a made-up history to reinforce the point. What one may do is draw real parallels with our world and Pullman accomplishes this rather well (has anyone wondered about Lyra's church? It could be our church, if our church still had the same power it had in the 14th and 15th centuries. Preemptive absolution sounds awful similar to papal indulgences). <br />In other words, the theme of the book is not only sound, it comes close to being awesome (in the old sense of the word, inspiring awe). I would suggest this series to anyone who wishes to be provoked a little into thinking and also appreciates good fantasy and a the grandeur that accompanies it.	2000-11-03
US	47386533	R2PXV1GTSYGPL4	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Not without its Faults	I'm noting an distressingly increasing trend among fantasy writers- to write history books, not stories. These authors apparently believe that to make things exceedingly complicated, exhaustive and immensely detailed (thus skimping on the character development; theres no room for it!) makes it enjoyable. Actually it basically turns the whole thing into a history book (e.g. The Wheel of Time. Wheres the plot, theme or anything similar? I see 1000 minor plots, but hardly a major theme or vision). And there are a lot of fans who want to dive into the mass of details and just forget about reality. Martin comes real close to this unfortunate practice in his second book but thankfully, doesn't wuite fall into the trap.<br />The book is pretty good, no doubt about it. But it could have been a lot better. There are likeable characters (Arya, Tyrion) but the lack of a protagonist or even two makes for tedious reading at times. Often character development is supplanted by simple narration. However, there's still a lot of excitement, and the book does make you want to read it... for a while. The book could have and should have been shorter. Don't these people know what brevity is? More words = higher price but not better story.<br />If you liked the Game of Thrones (I liked it) then you'll probably want to pick this up, if only to continue the series. If you're new, start from the beginning; and if you hated the first book then this one's not for you either.	2000-11-03
US	47386533	R39BCB80Z6YHEC	0671877550	454571881	Mathemagics (Chicks in Chainmail)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Very 2D	I found these books to be OK, apart from the horrible characterization. Everyone was so blandly drawn... Good guys were Good, badguys were very Bad. The idea of a villain being primarily a censor was a good idea but the author didn't have to throw in incest, felony, cruelty and evil into his figure; that way he becomes just another cardboard villain. Most censors are decent but slightly narrow-minded citizens who see a legitimate danger but go the wrong way or too far in trying to curb it. This way the censorship idea gets lost in a pile of other bad qualities. <br />The books also weren't as light-hearted as the short stories... if there's more with these characters I hope their better done.	2000-10-31
US	47386533	RSAK3Q2PEVZSV	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	2	3	13	N	N	Only for Small Children	Some people have said that this book is for adults as well as children, but that definitely isn't the case here. Some books are classified as children's or young adults' (e.g. His Dark Materials; The EarthSea series;) which are really for adults. Some other series for children can also be enjoyed by adults, eg Wrinkle in Time. But this book is really only good for children. Most adults won't even enjoy it, unless they like reading children's books to get them in a nostalgic mood. The concepts are presented in a simple fashion, the language is also very plain, characterization is at a minimum and the plot isn't too complicated. This reminded me of Watership Down, but at a much simpler level. A good read for a young child (around 9 yrs old or less), maybe; but I didn't like it much.	2000-10-31
US	47386533	R34MG5RY5OKWGU	0886776538	642591946	Ring of Lightning (Dance of the Rings)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Really doesn't live up to potential	The Ring of Lightning was built on a potentially good premise- a dysfunctional family using Rings of Power to remain in command. Unfortunately this potential is largely squandered in the book's fluffy and unexciting subplots and lack of a coherent vision.<br />The portrayal of character relationships among the Rhomandi is the best part of the book. The rest of the plot doesn't have much to it, including an unexciting subplot about a 'leythium' creature (leythium is an electricity-like energy that is the basis of the Ring's power). The deux ex machine ending also disappointed. <br />All in all, there are much better fantasy books to read (eg LOTR, EarthSea series, His Dark Materials by Pullman). You could possibly buy this book, but don't expect too much.	2000-10-29
US	47386533	RHPAIXE4CEKIU	0886777194	735448679	Ring of Intrigue (Dance of the Rings, Book 2)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	A disappointing sequel	This book could have been a lot better. Its predecessor was an OK fantasy book, and I expected at least as much from this one. Unfortunately Ring of Intrigue doesn't live up even to its mediocre promise and ends up being rather annoying and dull.<br />Mikheyel is the central point of the book and its best part. His emotional tangles are the most interesting portion of the tale and we are drawn into the book, if only at brief times. Plotlines from the first book are left hanging. Instead the book gives us pages of Khoratum dancers who want to dance again (please!), rulers making idiotically simple plots, etc. Its all played out and dull. <br />If the rest of the series is going to be this lackluster, I wouldn't advise anyone to pick it up. Let's hope that the final volume does better with these themes and improves on both the mediocre first and the disappointing second.	2000-10-29
US	47386533	R2H2AD6KBN4AC9	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Why is this always compared to Robert Jordan?	A lot of people have compared A Game of Thrones to Robert Jordan. Thankfully, its nothing like the Wheel of Time. Jordan's so-called 'epic' was filled wih haphazard adventures, whining and crudely drawn 2D characters, and more drudge. A Game of Thrones is nothing like it.<br />The book is supposed to be loosely based on The War of the ROses in England, twisted into a fantasy setting. There is some magic in the book, but one of my complaints is that its overshadowed by the political intrigues and conniving characters.<br />The book is 'realistic' in the sense that it is brutal. For this I had to take away one point; the world is too cynical, harsh and brutal. I'm not criticizing it for being realistic, because the real world isn't as bad as that. People who seriously believe we live in such a world must be very depressed or reading too much Catcher in the Rye. Some of the joie de vivre, as the French put it, is missing. Fantasy doesn't have to be exuberant or escapist but it should at least contain things like love, sorrow and beauty that exists but is hidden in our world. Unfortunately Martin goes too far and creates a world that's overly oppressive in its atmosphere.<br />However there's a lot to like about this book. Well-drawn politics and fleshed out characters populate this world, not whining old Rand Al'thor and Co. The book is also more than a little exciting. Pick it up and you won't be disappointed.	2000-10-26
US	47386533	R1HRHLY0JPYROS	0812550293	504533718	The Path of Daggers (The Wheel of Time, Book 8)	Books	1	4	5	N	N	Ok, we're still going nowhere	Some people have called this series 'epic'. One even went so far as to say its comparable to the Count of Monte Christo, and hoped the series is still here 20 yrs later. Haha... very funny. The COunt is a blissful 400 pgs long, and even the great Anna Karenina is only 1000 or so pages. This series is now some 4000 pages long, and we are still stuck in book 1 with a few embellishments.<br />That Jordan has a tendency to overwrite is an understatement. Our friends Rand and Co. are still the same idiotic farm hicks they were back in Eye of the World. It took half a book for Frodo to grow, up, unfortunately it seems Rand and Mat and Perrin need about another 10000 pages... keep it coming, Mr. Jordan. Our smooth-talking Aes Sedai are still using the same cliched phrases to describe and deride guys... and the expressions that they used in Books 1, 2, 3 are still being rehashed and given to us again. Apparently Mr. Jordan's imagination, like his world, runs in cycles. <br />Well, suffice to say this book was more of an eye opener than Crown of Thorns, which isn't saying much. As for an end to the series... forget about it. I'm not asking for an end to the series because I'm an adrenaline-addicted Clancy maniac, but because the world is overwritten and overdone and becaus even the most loyal fans are screaming at Mr. Jordan to stop. This series is an epic alright- an epic bore and an epic disaster. The series had some promise to begin with- its all sqaundered in book after book that use the same cardboad characters and plotlines that never go anywhere? (hmmm how long did it take Jordan to finish up the march on Tal Valinor? and for all you readers out there who think big is good, and like it when Mr. Jordan forgets about a major plotline for thousands of pages, a plotline hanging forever has nothing exciting about it- its just monumentally stupid). Even if you're an avid fan, I would advise to stayaway. It's just a waste of time.	2000-10-26
US	47386533	RFYRIY1XGFO3S	156076399X	926172526	The Nine Gates (Tsr Book)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Imaginative, but a bit shallow	Make no mistake- Nine Gates is a very imaginative book. Pulp-indian philosophy in the hands of this author makes an exciting (if sometimes confusing) read. Unfortunately the book is skin deep; its simply a good adventure story. Mr. Brugalette does do a fairly good job of drawing the main character, Gopal, and his mentor Vyasa. However, the other characters are less 3dimensional. <br />The ending is a good one, though... Gopal and Citty have a whole world to rebuild, and you get the feeling that change is in the air. Dharma is dead, the author tells us...<br />This book is a good way to pass the time, but don't look for anything too deep here.	2000-10-25
US	47386533	R1ZW1R2FPWYV59	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Yeah, well... mediocre, merely	Robert Jordan presents several interesting concepts in his book. Rand Al'Thor is a relatively well drawn character, but i had trouble relating to him and he other characters... they just weren't very involving. All in all, there are better fantasy series to be read.	2000-10-25
US	47386533	R1GU9JQG7ZAGEZ	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Godfather of Fantasy? Huh? Please...	So many people have been saying Robert Jordan is the new King of Fantasy, Tolkien's successor, etc, that I feel compelled to respond. These people must mostly be in the same category that claim Clancy writes classics and Stephen King writes epics.<br />Unfortunately, Jordan seems to have little original to fill the 800 (wow!) pgs or so that make up this book. Usual village-idiot turns world saviour story, with so many ripoffs from Tolkien its not even funny. Farm boy, about to celebrate, is whisked away by mysterious mage character to aid in the fight against the Dark One, theres a new one. By this time, I'm tired of that same old cliched fantasy story set in a Tolkiennish world. People who think Mr. Jordan is imaginative haven't read Philip Pullman or Madeline L'Engle. <br />As for comparisons to Tolkien, no way. Tolkien writes, for his time, a completely original trilogy with many complex issues behind it, and an air of beautiful nostalgia. Here that plot is ripped off and commercialized, then Mr. Jordan fills in the rest with minutae like the exact color of the grass and the shade of the sun.<br />Mr. Jordan also seems to have an obsession with women taking off their clothes. I don't care if they have to do it because thats the only way to save the world, or channel the One Power, or whatever. It just adds to the immaturity of the story and detracts from any real love that might build up.<br />If you really can read 10 books with 800 pgs each filled with crud like this, then go ahead with the Wheel of Time series... otherwise stay away.	2000-10-25
US	47386533	R22PZYTKIEQBFJ	0880387432	750210371	Monkey Station	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Pulp-fiction readers only	Monkey Station is a rather shallow, apocalyptic story withthe slightly novel twist of the survivors being hidden in the Amazon. Unfortunately the rest of the book lacks imaginative writing. Killer plagues? Yawn. Lonely band of survivors ekeing out a back-to-basics existence? Yawn again. Super-intelligent monkeys? zzzzz....	2000-10-25
US	47386533	R2NK9O4RSTF4ZE	0812533968	586910326	The Master: Book Three in the Time Master Trilogy	Books	2	0	8	N	N	Undistinguished	This book was kind of boring... It was an ok ending to the Master Trilogy, but I disliked the ending, where Tarod devoting himself to giving up the Chaos stone suddenly in 5 minutes reverses his decision. Also the fairy tale ending with Cyllan being resurrected... All in all a rather mediocre piece of work.	2000-10-25
US	47386533	R2G35N19UCK6LT	0553288733	57167313	Tehanu (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 4)	Books	2	14	19	N	N	Rambling and Pointless	I picked up this book with expectations, which were not fulfilled in the slightest. This tale is rambling, and boring and is a convenient soapbox for the author's feminist views.<br />The EarthSea series always held a special attraction for me. Although they weren't my favorite fantasy series, they were good. With this book, Mrs. Leguin kills the charm of her series for me. The book is without a plot of any kind, just 250+ pages of philosophizing by Tenar about Ged, women, and a burned child. Mrs. LeGuin sets out to expand the role of women in her world, and to make them worthy heroes as well. Unfortunately, she conceives the idea that the best way to do this is to cut down the male heroes she has built up. Ged is turned into a caricature, his power all gone; the remaining men (with the sole exception of Ogion, who dies anyways) are mostly deceitful, cunning, cruel and full of bad intentions towards her as a woman. Old Aunty Moss rambles on the mysteries of being a woman (&quot;who can say how far back a woman goes? who dares question the dark?&quot; who cares?) and declaims men for being flitting creatures, &quot;full of their grand man-meat&quot;, poor things.<br />I was disappointed with this follow-upto the EarthSea trilogy. the only things going for it were her still-poetic language and some moments of genuine thoughtfulness. The rest of the book isn't interesting in the least.	2000-10-24
US	47386533	R2OQ5TUOMTNWRW	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Religious Criticism? what?	The Subtle Knife is a very good book, make no mistake about it. On the surface its very thrilling and invloving- Pullman has a very good gift for fleshing out and involving us in his characters (e.g. his Sally Lockhart series). <br />However, once you work deeper into the message of the book, Pullman seems to be saying- 'the church is bad; God is questionable.' Readers who try to skirt around it by saying that its not our church, but Lyra's, and that it could be a different God, are missing the point. Its not just the church thats under fire here (remember Lord Asriel thinking the Church too weak an enemy) but God and his institutions. However, although this message may frankly upset devout believers, that is no reason not to read this book. Anybody who claims to be a true believe should at least think about their beliefs and why they are holding them, and if all you read is comforting pro-Christian literature, thats not going to happen. <br />People criticized this book for attacking Christianity; people responded that you shouldn't censor it; now some are replying that censorship is not criticism. One reviewer even regretted having read the first bok if he knew what was in store for him.<br />BUT- a critism of faith is not a personal attack. And a person should always be skeptical about his own faith if he is a rational person. If he believes in God he should have a rationale rather than -&quot;If i don't belive in God I'll burn in hell.&quot; Anyone who thinks readers will burn in hell for this book, thats utter nonsense. I'm already burning in hell anyway by Christian standards (I'm agnostic).<br />If you read this book and think about it it may challenge you; but is that a bad thing?	2000-10-23
US	47386533	RMAVSH6PFIW7N	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Challenging and beautiful	The Amber Spyglass is a classic- not in the narrow sense of the word that we've come to associate with the word, overused as it is. This book is a true classic- beautiful, grand and thought-provoking. <br />The book expands on the universe created in the first two books and elevates the vision of the series. No longer the simple adventure story in the Golden Compass, or the tense mystery of the second, the Amber Spyglass creates the sensation of events rushing past and a universe at war, always swirling around the two children at the book's heart.<br />I don't know what the editor or publisher was thinking when he classified the book as Young Adult. As readers have said, young people (although I hope not all of them) will miss a lot of the book and the underlying theme of losing 'paradise'. Those who do will find their beliefs (if they are Judeo-Christian) challenged (I believe this is a good thing, personally). The book is less about Paradise lost then Paradise gained. Pullman beautifully portrays Will and Lyra as Adam and Eve at the end. Their 'fall from grace', in this book signifying their maturing and falling in love, is portrayed as a good and beautiful thing (&quot;humans coming into their full inheritance&quot;). The ending also leaves a bittersweet and melancholy taste in the mouth that affected me a lot.<br />As for those who feel young people shouldn't be allowed to read this book, you are underestimating them. Those who will get the underlying message will be smart ebough to think carefully about them. If you think the message of the book is wrong, that is no reason to ban it or stop it from being read. <br />I would recommend this book to pretty much anybody who wants to think and be awed. This is book is for those people.	2000-10-23
