US	47385893	R1AOWYK8DJZEDS	0385504691	841746642	Shin Buddhism: Bits of Rubble Turn into Gold	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Slow to start, but really builds up nicely	I really would give this 4.5 stars if I could.  Taitetsu Unno is a brilliant writer, and despite being Japanese, he truly knows how to write for a Western audience.  My only complaint were the early chapters where he's mostly talking about how great the 'nembutsu' and not much else.  It's kind of feel-good fluff.<br /><br />However, by the second section, he really delves into so many aspects of Buddhism, from a Jodo ShinShu perspective (I am a newly converted Shin Buddhist myself).  The chapters are surprisingly relevant and the topics build from the simple topics in the first few chapters into progressively more deep and theological issues for Buddhists.  This book has a subtle, but very compelling flow to it.<br /><br />Taitetsu is clearly a well-read person as he quotes from many interesting sources, and clearly conveys their meaning to the reader.<br /><br />This really was time well-spent reading, and I definitely recommend this to anyone who's curious about Shin Buddhism.  It's the largest school of Buddhism in Japan (not Zen or Soka Gakkai), yet the least known here.  Read this book and find out what it's about.	2005-09-21
US	47385893	R2E7OCMXQDOTVE	0785787283	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A very thought-provoking military novel	Most people think of the ill-conceived movie when they think of Starship Troopers, but out of curiousity I decided to read this book anyway.  To my own surprise, the movie and the book were like night and day, more so than one would expect.<br />This novel is not action-paced thriller.  Instead what you get is a very engaging book about military life, and Heinlein's theories on Utopia.  What really surprised me most was how well he argued his theories through the characters in his book.  Before long, I found myself wishing I was in the military!<br />But in all seriousness, this book is very intelligent, and really forces readers to think about modern society.  After reading this, you cannot help but question things we take for granted in Western Democracies, and whether they really help or hurt us.  I truly enjoyed reading this book and I strongly recommend it to any politically minded people, as well as people interested in military life and war.  It truly is a science fiction masterpiece.  Enjoy!	2003-11-19
US	47385893	RKLMFHE4QC2P1	0789728656	764905183	Network+ Exam Cram 2 (Exam Cram N10-002)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The one study guide you truly need	For past certification tests by Comptia (A+ and others), I relied on Syngress press books, and everytime I was somewhat dissappointed by the thin content, and inaccurate test questions. So for the Network+ exam I decided to try out the Exam Cram books and I was very pleasantly surprised.<br />The emphasis is on the word CRAM.  This book, though small, and compact, is crammed with useful information.  This book truly epitomizes the idea of cramming as much information as you need for a test, without wasting time on frivolous or misleading details.  I really found this book to be a tremendous help, and was the only source I relied on for the test.<br />If you are planning on taking this test, or if you need a useful quick reference book for work, definitely definitely consider this book.  It is time and money well spent. :)	2003-11-19
US	47385893	R3T2CKO4MZNEOJ	1886411999	339520615	Absolute OpenBSD: Unix for the Practical Paranoid	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Thoroughly Delightful, great for those new to OpenBSD	Before reading this book, I had tried out OpenBSD a little, but I was left with many questions, and online documentation can be a bit intimidating at times.  So when I found this book at the bookstore, I was thrilled.  I am happy to say that this book really did live up to expectation.<br />The intended audience of this book were people who knew there way around Unix and Linux.  One need not be a veteran user, but as the author points out, you are expected to know basic command line stuff.  If you are there, you will find this book to be a very easy going, yet thorough introduction to OpenBSD.<br />This book walks you all the way through the origins of BSD, through installation (an excellent section of the book), to usage, compiling kernels, and so on.  You get a well-rounded coverage of a very interesting operating system.<br />I also really like the author's style of writing.  On the one hand, you get a genuine sense of professionalism, but on the other hand, he cracks some good jokes throughout.  If you are a system admin of any sort, you will certainly appreciate the humor.<br />In closing, I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who's had some experience with Unix and Linux.  OpenBSD is a operating system few have tried, but I think after reading this book, you will definitely want to go out and try it yourself.  The book is definitely time and money well spent.	2003-11-19
US	47385893	RB7A0V9OTIHSB	0596003188	296284458	Tomcat: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ideal for System Admins	If you are a System Admin, and you want to learn how to effectively run and maintain a Tomcat web server, this is the book for you.  I found myself in this very situation not too long ago.  After reading sparse Tomcat docs (and getting very confused) I bought this book, read it in a few days.  Before long, I was running a proper Tomcat web server for a few users.<br />I cannot speak for the development side of this book, though I think this book gave a nice introduction to JSPs and servlets for someone who is not a Java programmer.  I can speak for the administrative side of it, and it is very good.<br />The authors are very thorough in showing you how to setup a Tomcat server, and provide a couple different setups to use, and how to approach each. In addition, they cover security, dealing with users, and configuring the server.<br />For setting up and running a Tomcat server, this book is certainly a good buy.  If you are a web server admin, take the time to read this book.  :)	2003-11-19
US	47385893	R2MR39I0A9NEEF	0072222794	207111804	A+ Certification Study Guide	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Great for the hardware exam, weak on the OS exam	For the record, I did pass both of the A+ exams, using just this book, but looking back, this book did have a couple glaring problems that costed 1 star each.  If you are taking the hardware exam, this book is actually quite useful, but for the OS exam, you must take it with a grain of salt.<br />The first problem with this book were the test questions.  The types of questions asked by the A+ exam were quite different than the ones asked at the end of each chapter in this book, so while the questions can help you remember important information, don't expect the test to be like what you see in the book.<br />The second, and more glaring problem was the fact that the OS exam chapters were much lighter in content than the chapters devoted to the hardware exam.  TO give you an idea, the hardware exam has 7 chapters in this book, but the OS exam has 4 chapters.  After studying for both exams vigorously, I passed the hardware exam with flying colors, but I failed teh OS exam.  There were questions on the exam dealing with content that was totally absent from the book (NT stuff, some troubleshooting stuff, and some networking stuff).  I had to study for the exam even harder using this book, and even then I barely passed for the same reason: some stuff just wasn't covered in this book.<br />To the credit of the authors though, the hardware exam portion of this book is excellent.  They cover quite a bit of useful content, and the CD that comes with the book really helps with this exam too.  I think this book can be used as a good reference for PC hardware and troubleshooting even if you finished the A+ exam.<br />In summary, the book was lop-sided in coverage and the test questions could be formatted differently, but as far as the hardware exam goes, this book was great.  For the OS exam, try looking at other resources.	2003-08-24
US	47385893	R3V98UDMZA9KX6	0670032557	511631376	The Drawing of the Three (The Dark Tower, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	More desperate and dark than the first	It goes without saying that the Dark Tower series by Stephen King is an amazing epic.  The first book took readers through a desert and a wasteland, as well as dark memories, all to find the Man in Black.<br />In this second novel, the story takes a different turn, and the Gunslinger is now in a very desperate situation.  While fighting for his life, he is forced to enter the time periods of three other people, all of whom live very dark and awful lives.  Ultimately, the gunslinger must make allies of these three and at the same time save his own life in his world.<br />In the Gunslinger's quest for the Tower, the Gunslinger makes less progress here, but at the same time, he is faced with much more serious challanges.  In the first book, readers were constantly left wondering if the Gunslinger will meet the Man in Black and if so, what will he do.  In this book, the readers will be asking themselves time and again, how the Gunslinger will possibly navigate other time periods and keep himself alive at the same time.<br />The ending of this book is really powerful and dramatic, and really brings the story together.  While longer than the first book, readers will find themselves flying through page after page.  This book really does credit to the Dark Tower series.<br />In summary, like the first book, the Drawing of the Three is another powerful and very exciting chapter in this awesome epic.  If you are new to Stephen King, then this series is an excellent series to start with.  YOu will definitely not be dissappointed.	2003-08-24
US	47385893	R1DDANUQNX10A7	1565926102	906436109	Programming PHP	Books	5	94	102	N	N	Great PHP book, but for programmers	The creator of PHP himself, Rasmus Lerdorf, put together a thorough and enlightening guide to PHP.  In this book you will find everything you need to know about PHP from variables to a long list of all the PHP functions and how to use them.  I found many features of PHP that I had no idea existed (such as creating PDF  files).  I use this book as a reference for a PHP course I teach, and its examples have been more than helpful to me in designing lesson plans.<br />The one caveat of this book is that it is not geared toward brand new web programmers.  PHP as a language derives from C, C++ and Perl, and if you are not at least somewhat familiar with these langauges, you can get lost in this book.  The authors really want to draw a parallel between PHP and its predecessor languages so that programmers can pick up PHP more easily.  I really like the fact they try to do that, and it has helped me enjoy this book more.  But on the flip side, it will be more difficult for new programmers to read this book.  I really hope O'Reilly comes up with a &quot;Learning PHP&quot; book that will be more for beginning programmers, because PHP is a great language to learn, and it would be nice to have books to appeal to all levels.<br />In any case, for a book about PHP, you can ask for no better book than one written by the author itself.  This book does keep up the tradition of professional, useful O'Reilly programming books, and is worth the time for web programmers to read.  Thus I think it earns 5 stars.	2003-06-28
US	47385893	R3TBJ6X2W72QKL	1565920988	790112961	PGP: Pretty Good Privacy	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A good PGP and cryptography primer	PGP is a fascinating tool.  Most see PGP as a way of sharing files, but the creator of PGP, Phil Zimmerman, really want to make a *privacy* tool.  I did not realize this and other things until reading this book.<br />O'Reilly's PGP book can be divided into two sections.  The first section is really a history of cryptography and how PGP fits in this context.  I found this section surprisingly enjoyable as you learn about the long and tortuous struggle between the NSA and people who want to promote freedom and privacy.  On a more concrete level though, you do learn quite a bit about different encryption algorithms and key algorithms, such as the RSA and Diffie-Hellman as well as other concepts important to cryptography. Admittedly, the history itself makes for pretty interesting reading.<br />The second section is about PGP usage, and it is very thorough  in its coverage.  You will learn just about every possible feature in PGP, and how to apply them to a number of possible situations.  I like reading this book over the PGP manuals just for the time and care put into it, if not the amusing examples.<br />One thing other reviewers have rightly touched on is the age of the book.  TIme has passed.  The RSA algorithm is now free and open, and PGP clone called GPG is now in wide use.  I am definitely excited to see a 2nd edition of this book in hopes that it will cover such things.<br />However, regardless of the age, this book is an excellent primer into PGP and cryptography culture, and newbies like me will certain enjoy reading it.	2003-06-28
US	47385893	R14T5TNWJQCOYR	0131103628	39144792	C Programming Language, 2nd Edition	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	A Programming Classic	With more than 30 years under its belt, the C programming language still remains one of the most important computer languages to date.  Languages like Perl and Java might have secured permanent niches in certain areas of programming, but one must keep in mind that they their own compilers were written in C languages, and both use structures and styles derived from C.<br />In short, this book is a classic in the field of computer programming, but it is no less relevant today.  Kernigham and Ritchie start the reader from the very beginning with discussions of variables and functions, and keep their discussion of C in very stripped down and simple terms.  Using C libraries can get you very far these days as a programmer, but if you want to know how those functions work, you will enjoy a very nice introduction in this book.  You will make your own functions like strcat, atoi and so on using the most basic C commands.  This approach to programming really helps the new programmer think for themselves.<br />I also like the problems and questions throughout the book.  Kernigham and Ritchie definitely want the reader to be actively learning C and not just be a passive reader.<br />In short, this book is an excellent starting point for someone wanting to learn C, or for someone who is starting out in programming.  Its also a classic that should definitely be on any career programmer's shelf.	2003-03-06
US	47385893	R2YFKMSWPNPBCB	0553380966	199085075	The Diamond Age: Or, a Young Lady's Illustrated Primer (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Dissappointing when compared to Snow Crash	Having read Stephenson's &quot;Snow Crash&quot; I was really hoping for more of the same hip, very fast paced, and imaginitive writing.  This book, unfortunately, turned out to be much slower paced, and with lots of hits and misses.<br />The story, although in the future, very closely mirrors the High-Colonial period in the early 1900's with the British Empire (now called the Neo-Victorians) once again ruling Coastal China.  The are so many parallels to the old British Empire and this one, that anyone who has studied Chinese history will figure out the ending by page 50.<br />And the ending itself is very confusing.  The book never really explains who the Drummers were, and the whole point of the Mouse Army.  After reading what felt like very long detailed descriptions, and lots of mystery, I could not help but feel dissappointed when the ending just happened, or rather didn't happen.<br />On the other hand, true to Stephenson's style, there was a lot of witty humor in this book.  I thoroughly enjoyed the whole thing about Kentucky Fried Chicken, and Chinese culture.  Stephenson's humor is as sharp as ever in this book, so even while dissappointing, it is still very entertaining at times.  I also found this book very compelling at times as the mystery surrounding the Drummers unfolded throughout the book, and also Doctor X.  With such interesting characters, I wish Stephenson had spent more time developing them.<br />After having read Snow Crash, I had to give this book 3 starts because it had plenty of Stephenson humor, creativity and wit, but was slow-paced and the plot was more confusing and incomplete.  This book is one that should go on any Stephenson fan's shelf, but perhaps not the topmost place.	2003-03-06
US	47385893	R2RW4511FT391Z	0072127732	808510638	Linux (Hacking Exposed)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Refreshingly honest, thoroughly enlightening	Given the complexity of Linux systems, and the years spent hardening such systems against would-be intruders, it is amazing how a simple, clever idea can still translate into a full-blown security exploit.<br />I really enjoyed the format of the book.  The authors don't waste time on security theories, or explaining what Linux is.  They know the reader is already familiar with these, and wants to know, in concrete terms, how a hacker sees your server, and will systematically breach its security until they get root access.  The authors waste no time in revealing the tools of the trade, and the security-conscious would do well to read this book from cover to cover.  It is not enough to just apply patches, and turn off unnecessary services (and surprisingly few admins even do this right).  One must fully understand the mindset of the hacker, and see the server from the outside.<br />I truly believe that no other book right now can deliver such honesty and such useful information on Linux security.  If you hope to secure your servers or go into the security field, definitely read this book.  You will not be sorry.  :)	2003-03-06
US	47385893	R13URSEYH1LD4U	0072227427	593641401	Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets & Solutions, Fourth Edition (Hacking Exposed)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Refreshinly honest, though a few too many topics	With all the literature on network security, I really found this book a refreshing change of pace.  Security experts will tell you that it is not enough to just know how to update patches and turn off unnecessary services.  One must understand the mindset of a hacker, know the tools they like to use, and how they see your network from their perspective.<br />I really liked the approach of this book.  It obscures nothing, and  gives the would-be security person an in-depth view of how one can penetrate a system given time and a little know-how.  The blunt honesty of this book can be surprising, as it gives default passwords for routers and switches among other things, but its this sort of wake-up call that turns network admins into security -conscious ones.  I am definitely this book is in print.<br />I did have to give 4 starts to the book because it covers so many  topics that it cannot devote as much as I would like on any one.  Sections on Unix and Windows hacking are better left in the other books in the &quot;Hacking Exposed&quot; series.  However, the information contained in those sections is no less useful.<br />All in all, this is a very worthwhile investment for admins and security guys who want to see things from the other side of the firewall, so to speak.  :)	2003-03-06
US	47385893	R3S0TCXYYL8K6Z	1565926609	563726170	Ethernet: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Every network admin must read this book!	Anyone who has ever worked in the field of computing networking will tell you that ethernet is something very important to learn because it is the standard networking medium people use.  A thorough knowledge of ethernet is needed if you want to pursue a career in this field, and by far the best starting point to learn about ethernet is Mr. Spurgeon's book.<br />30 years of experience working with ethernet is clearly reflected in this book.  What you will find when reading this book is a very thorough treatment of the topic.  YOu will learn everything from the structure of ethernet datagrams, to building your own ethernet cable.  Each chapter is very relevant to the topic, and surprisingly flows well for such a large book.<br />As Mr. Spurgeon points out in the introduction, after reading this book, you will find yourself very familiar with networking terminology and how it all works.  For someone like me, who started a new job and needed to learn this topic fast, this book was a life saver.  It is a book you should definitely read.  Enjoy!	2002-11-19
US	47385893	R1K9QNCTBKWXT7	1565925106	531926198	Managing NFS and NIS: Help for Unix System Administrators	Books	5	8	8	N	N	NFS, NIS and automounter, a great combonation!	Anyone who has ever administered a network of at least 3-4 servers (if not more) will find individually updating accounts, software and such to be a burden.  I found myself in this situation not too long ago, and then I picked up this book, and found the answers I was looking for.<br />Most Unix admins have heard of NFS and NIS but might not have considered using them together.  This book gives a very thorough discussion each topic, how to set it up, how to deal with advanced issues, and how to troubleshoot.  Admins will really develop an appreciation for how useful these tools can be, especially when used together.<br />Though LDAP is gaining prominence, a network utilizing NIS, NFS, and automounter is still a very nice network to administer.  Even just learning NFS/automounter is time well spent because it is a service not likely to go away.  I really felt this this book was worth the time and money because it really helps the intermediate to advanced admin better gain control of the network (instead of the network controlling him :).  Definintely give this book a try.  Enjoy!	2002-11-19
US	47385893	R1XDZB0KFNSG8J	0072118776	402236229	A+ Certification Test Yourself Practice Exams (Test Yourself (Berkely, Calif.).)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointing, just disappointing	According to the publishers of this book, they had hoped to publish a cheaper, more efficient guide to the A+ exams, but I think that they cut out too much, and slapped too many things together haphazardly.<br />Each section contains at best a couple REALLY brief pages about a certain topic (say EIDE for example), and then suddenly throw some questions at you that are often unclear, and have an odd structure to them (not to mention typos and errors that other reviewers have pointed out).  I definitely doubt that the real questions on the A+ exam are this tough or have this sort of format because people would surely revolt.<br />The worst gripe of all was the supposed &quot;free test exam software&quot; that you can download from their website.  Its very difficult to find, and not that helpful since its always the same few questions.<br />I did have to give this book 3 stars because it did accomplish its aim of being a &quot;cram for the test&quot; style book.  If you need to just read the differences between different Pentium processors, for example, then this book will still help you.  However, don't rely too much on the questions, they are just not worth it.<br />If you have time to thoroughly study for the A+ exam, consider looking for another book, but if you need a quick review, then go ahead and pick up this book, but look elsewhere for self-testing resources.	2002-11-19
US	47385893	R1WI2AWSTFI0W5	0201633574	914682675	Firewalls and Internet Security: Repelling The Wily Hacker (Addison-Wesley Professional Computing)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A timeless intro to Unix security	While written in 1994 (with a second edition coming soon), I feel that this book is nevertheless a must read for people who are first getting into Unix network security.  Many of the concepts covered here such as firewall design, software exploits, and hacker methodology apply to today as much as it did then.  In addition, knowing the network security scene then helps those who are unfamiliar with the history of network security better appreciate how far things have come.<br />In those days, such Unix tools as SSH, Pam, and PGP were not widespread (and not covered in this book much), and instead people were still relying on the r-tools, telnet, and archie.  Readers will find this rather nostalgic, but the threats posed by use of these tools is surprisingly relevent.  Password sniffing ftp connections is a threat just as it is now, RPC and NFS are still major security threats and so on.<br />One thing that I felt did detract from this book was the somewhat excessive coverage of the authors own modified tools.  I feel that altering the Unix tools to fit their security needs was brilliant, and an inspiration to other network security folks, but nonetheless the book had more detail on this topic than I felt was necessary.<br />On the other hand, I really enjoyed the coverage of hacker methodology.  The \\"Berferd\\" chapter was truly a fun thing to read.  In this chapter, you read about a real incident involving an infamous hacker at the time as he tries to penetrate the AT&T network, and the back and forth battle between the authors and the hacker.  Very compelling.<br />Other chapters also cover hacker methodology very well too.  This I feel is what seperates this book from other books.  Its not enough to learn about security, because if you don't understand the \\"thought process\\" and the way hackers probe the system, then security won't mean much.<br />In short, the dedication the authors feel towards network security really shows in this book.  For such a small book, I feel I learned alot, and have developed a greater appreciation for the ongoing struggle to defend networks from wily hackers.  This book is really worth reading.feel I learned alot, and have developed a greater appreciation for the ongoing struggle to defend networks from wily hackers.  This book is really worth reading.	2002-11-19
US	47385893	R2DOOPB0DHMFL3	0306811642	480421926	Afghanistan: A Military History from Alexander the Great to the Fall of the Taliban	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The authoritative book on Afghan history	September 11th, 2001 brought about an unprecedented chain of events.  The world's most powerful nation is now deeply intertwined with one of the poorest and most isolated countries in the world: Afghanistan.  What happens in Afghanistan now directly affects us, and will continue to affect us for some time to come.<br />In light of this, I picked up this book because I knew next to nothing about Afghanistan.  What I found was a truly excellent book that covered all of Afghanistan history and paints a very rich tapestry of Afghan people, and how we have come to this point in history that is the American War on Terrorism there.<br />Throughout this book, you will read examples of foreigners conquering Afghanistan, only to face the reality that in the end the Afghans can not be conquered.  The most compelling example in this book is the first Anglo-Afghan war in the 1840s, where British forces marched in with huge numbers, but in the end, they were fleeing back to India starved, frozen, and totally panicked.  The Soviet-Afghan war is equally compelling, and really provides insight into the current conflict we face where Mujahideen veteran fighters from that era have now reassembled into what is now Al-Qaeda and the Taliban.<br />Regardless of your views of the War on Terrorism, people will really benefit from reading this book.  I think that by reading about Afghanistan and how it came to be will give readers a greater appreciation for what is going on there now in the current conflict, and also the War as a whole.  Enjoy!	2002-11-19
US	47385893	R35MB8ARFFBRAY	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hip and Exciting, yet Insightful too.	Just before going on a trip overseas, a friend bought this book.  I thought \\"why would I want to read a Sci-fi novel?\\"  Most Sci-fi novels are thick with cheesy plots revolving around the author's idea about some aspect of technology.<br />Snow Crash was quite a different story.  From the start I found it very entertaining.  The idea of a Mafia pizza delivery service, and a church franchise (Reverend Wayne's Pearly Gates) makes a very interesting setting for a book.<br />At the same time, I really enjoyed the author's hip writing style.  For example, the beginning of one chapters goes like this: \\"Until a man is twenty-five, he still thinks, every so often, that under the right circumstances he could be the baddest .. in the world\\".  I enjoy this sort of saavy writing, which is found throughout the book.<br />I have finished reading this book for the fourth time, and each time I re-read the book, I find I learn something new.  The concepts of a metavirus, the Asherah cult, and how they relate to world religion are quite fascinating, and definitely food for thought.  I can't help but wonder if people really are infected with some sort of Asherah virus.<br />Lastly, I really enjoyed the hero of the book (ironically named Hiro Protagonist).  I can definitely relate to his problems and attitudes.<br />Definitely buy this book if you can.  There is something for every one in this book, even if you don't consider yourself a \\"nerd\\".  It really is a entertaining novel and a rare gem.	2002-05-03
US	47385893	R3IW6JTP8QDRW3	1565922204	435436047	Advanced Perl Programming (Perl Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent transition from 'Llama' Book	If you have read the famous &quot;Llama Book&quot; (Learning Perl by O'Reilly) and need a book to show you more advanced features, I highly recommend reading this book next.<br />This book provides a introduction many advanced topics in Perl Programming, such as referencing, eval, Object-Oriented Programming and so on.  The topics are quite varied and the chapters are brief and not too verbose.  I really think this format is helpful for new Perl Programmers, especially those without a strong programming background, who aren't familiar with these concepts.<br />I really like the author's easy-going, no-nonsense style.  He will tell you how something works without too much technical terminology, and also will admit when another language is better suited for something.<br />Readers who find Larry Wall's &quot;Programming Perl&quot; book difficult to understand will find this book refreshing.  It provides a good introduction to advanced topics, and if the reader is interested they can read more detailed books such as the afore-mentioned &quot;Programming Perl&quot;.  This book is a definitely must-read for intermediate Perl Programmers.	2002-05-03
US	47385893	RMVBHZXUT09KC	0345350685	780069179	The Autobiography of Malcolm X: As Told to Alex Haley	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very powerful and very eye-opening!	Being a young fellow, I grew up long after the Civil Rights movement.  By this time, Dr King was already fading into legend.  Yet, Malcolm X had never lost his controversial edge.  Because of this, he probably never achieved the legendary status of Dr. King, but after reading this book, I respect him far more.<br />What really makes Malcolm X such a great figure is the way his life took him from the slums of Harlem, selling dope, and becoming an addict, to a radical Muslim who hated the \\"white devil\\", to his pilgrimage in Mecca, and re-evaluating the racial problem in America.  However, this book is outstanding because it doesn't just tell a story, but you really can feel and understand the way Malcolm felt during different stages in his life.  Malcolm X never held back the truth in what he observed, and for some readers, the truth will be painful.  Yet as Malcolm says \\"the truth cuts like a double-edged sword\\".  After reading this book, I see the racial problem in America in a much different light, and my appreciation for Malcolm X is that much greater.<br />Malcolm is truly an extraordinary figure in history, and no one worked harder to restore pride in Afro-Americans than he.  This book provides a very fascinating insight into this remarkable man.  I sincerely believe that every American youth should read this book, and never forget this brilliant man, who forever changed America.	2002-04-22
US	47385893	R2DHB2IIVPHBLL	0596001584	194912173	DNS and BIND, Fourth Edition	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Highly recommended for Unix netadmins or the curious	Before reading this book, using Bind was a daunting and intimidtaing task.  Even when I followed examples on web tutorials, I found I still didn't understand what it was I was doing.  But having read this book, I feel much more confident using Bind and DNS in general.  Unintuitive config files are now totally readable, and fancy terms such as &quot;zone&quot; or &quot;reverse mapping&quot; make much more sense now.<br />I definitely recommend this book to Unix netadmins because this book has a lot of practical advice for how best to optomize Bind in a network, and how to deal with tricky tasks such as delegating and compensating for network disasters (a must read section).<br />Best of all, the book is very easy to read, rather humorous at times, and has something for people of all levels of experience.  I whole heartedly give this book 5 stars, and strongly urge other Unix/LInux folks to read it too.  Enjoy!	2002-03-23
US	47385893	R3VIBBPIDMQPN2	0596002610	107377280	Learning the UNIX Operating System, Fifth Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ideal for total Unix newbies	People who have never used Unix will find it very intimidating, but this book will definitely change that.  This book doesn't try to throw a lot of information at you, but rather, it gives you a nice, easy-going introduction to using Unix.<br />Some of the books strengths are its using of examples and illustrations.  Using screens shots to show what the user will (or should) see helps the Unix shy better understand should happen when they do something.  This book really does a good job in going step by step in order to accomplish.  New users definitely won't feel like they will get lost.<br />The other strength is how the book covers errors that users might encounter, and how to deal with them.  Afterall, new users will make mistakes, and it helps to have a book that will tell users why they got that error.<br />If you have a fair amount of experience in Unix, you should definitely read other books.  If you are really new to Unix, then definitely read this book.  You will definitely feel more confident when you are done.  Even those who have learned Unix before just might learn sometihng new (I did).  :)	2002-03-23
US	47385893	R2KTC6ORI87DU5	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great fantasy classic presented in beautiful edition	Of the many fantasy novels I have read in my time, I still cannot deny the fact that there is no book more wonderful than the Lord of the Rings.  It is a timeless classic that I find myself reading again and again.<br />What really sets this book apart from others in the fantasy genre are subtle yet crucial to making this book a classic.  First, because of Tolkien's educational background at Oxford, and talent with old, forgotten languages, he created names and languages that really strike a chord in the reader.  The elven languages were a stroke of genious, that linguists still continue to ponder over today.  Names for people and locations also resonate in our minds in a unique way as if they were really had existed.  Those who are familiar with Old or Middle English will particularly understand this point.<br />More ingenious though is the deep meaning behind the books.  The Ring of Power, being a symbol of absolute power, corrupts the minds of all it touches.  The wise and strong are particularly vulnerable to its dark touch, even if they intend to use it for good (as Boromir had hoped to do).  Like many other aspects of the trilogy, Tolkien clearly intended to reveal many aspects of our lives through this book, and he did so masterfully.<br />As for this particular hardback edition, I enjoy it immensely.  It truly feels like a tome from a forgotten time, and fits the mood of the story well.  For the true Tolkien fan, I would definitely recommend purchasing this edition.  May you enjoy many long hours reading it.  :)	2002-03-05
US	47385893	R1LCGM3WGJL48G	1565923219	386606680	Using and Managing PPP: Help for Network Administrators	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must have for network admins	When most people think of PPP, they just think of antiquated modem connections, but PPP is capable of much more.  PPP can also be used as T1 lines and other such high speed connections.<br />This book is definitely intended for the network admins who are running (or hope to run) some sort of PPP-related service.  The book explains how PPP connections work, from PPP packet header information to network and routing setups as well as debugging them.  The information is very detailed and comprehensive, and well-written.<br />A user who just wants to setup a modem connection from home will probably find this book is not for them though.  The topics covered focus more on using the PPP protocol in a network setting, rather than just a home computer.  However, the chapter on setting up a dial-out modem does show a home-user how to setup a modem connection on several operating systems, and answers questions that even modem &quot;veterans&quot; like me have.  :)<br />In closing, this book is well-suited for network admins, but regular users should find a book more suited for home use.  However, I think this book has something for everyone interested in PPP.	2002-02-10
US	47385893	R3JXOPI2PPZ2BP	1565927184	479551518	Learning Java (Java Series)	Books	3	12	13	N	Y	Not the best introduction to Java/O.O. programming	Programmers who have learned such languages such as C++ will find that learning Java is easy, and somewhat painless since both use Object Oriented Programming.  But what about those who do not have such experience?<br />For those who have experience in O.O.Programming, this book will suit you just fine.  However, for the rest of us, this book will be difficult to get through, let alone understand.  You can read the book, understand the syntax, but unless you understand O.O.Programming, you will not be able to make effective use of this book.<br />My other complaint for this book was the lack of problems for novices to try.  Many other O'Reilly books on programming will put problems at the end of every chapter (e.g. Learning Perl, Practical C Programming, etc.) but not this one.  I think that would help any new Java programmer immensely.<br />One last complaint for this book was the first couple chapters.  The authors tried to give you some code to try out (obviously to get new Java programmers excited about Java), but did so before even presenting Java concepts, so a reader will find himself frustrated from the start.<br />I had to give this book 3 stars because the content overall was good, but was definitely assuming too much from the reader.  For people with C++ background, you will definitely enjoy this book, but if not, you will find yourself most frustrated.	2002-02-10
US	47385893	R279S5UCPGHUMQ	1864501898	592534942	Lonely Planet Vietnam (Vietnam, 6th ed)	Books	3	18	18	N	N	Not the most accurate picture of Vietnam	I spent this summer studying in Vietnam, and it became clear that the Vietnam in the LP is quite different than the real Vietnam I saw with my own eyes.<br />I think the book was intended for travelling businessmen who only plan on staying in Vietnam for a few days, and have plenty of money to spend for plush hotels.  This is regrettable since there is so much more to Vietnam than tourist traps, tourist-oriented restaraunts, and hotels.<br />For example, in my first couple weeks in Hanoi, Vietnam, I followed the book's suggestions for restaraunts, only to realize they were severely overpriced, and not nearly as tasty (or exotic) as the more \\"local\\" restaraunts.  Before long, I stopped going to the LP's preferred restaraunts altogether.  Only when I stopped following the LP altogether did I really start to delve into Vietnamese culture, both the good and bad.<br />Also, the LP tends to whitewash the more unpleasant aspects of Vietnam, such as being harassed by people on the street, who are more than eager to rip you off, and the grueling poverty.  If one really wants to appreciate Vietnam, these less pleasant factors have to be taken into account.<br />If you plan on just \\"visiting\\", but don't really plan on getting to know the culture, this book may be enough.  However, to truly appreciate both the good and bad of Vietnam, I suggest avoiding this book, or at least not relying on it too much.	2002-02-10
US	47385893	RY6HHHMZY0JUL	1565924495	907063470	Using Samba: A File and Print Server for Heterogeneous Networks	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very comprehensive, very handy!	Network administers will invariably face the task of integrating Windows systems with Unix or Linux ones.  Samba provides an excellent solution to this problem, but for people starting out, Samba seems like a daunting task.<br />Not so with this book.  Prior to reading this book, I had no experience with Samba whatsoever.  Before long, I found myself setting up Samba on a linux server and setting up file shares to Win2k systems.  The massive smb.conf configuration file no longer looks menacing, but rather, its easy to read now.<br />I see why this has been adopted by the Samba team.  Its very easy to read, very relaxing in its pace, and very thorough in its treatment of Samba topics.  I do not believe there is a more comprehensive on Samba to date.  Even the reference sections in the back are very nicely organized, and very easy to use.<br />What really tops this book off though is its treatment of Windows networking.  For those who have little or no understanding of Windows and how networks are organized, this book covers the topic very well.  Unix/Linux administrators will be glad they read this chapter.<br />In closing, I strongly recommend this book to Network Administrators, particularly those using Unix/Linux.  This book is very comprehensive, but very easy to read.	2002-01-22
US	47385893	R2IY46IEEQS1RZ	1565926420	114711132	Unix Backup and Recovery	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Indespensible for sysadmins!	Backing up networks and filesystems is an integral part of System Administration, but few realize how essential and complicated backup and recoveries can be, especially for very large databases and filesystems.<br />This book should be the first book you read on this subject. The book does not try to cover one method, or product, or utility in depth, but rather, it gives you everything you should know about backup and recoveries. It covers cost issues, hardware issues, networking strategies, commercial and non-commercial utilities, and all of their pros and cons.<br />What really sets this book apart from other such books is the focus on how to plan backup strategies well. The author clearly intends readers to do more than just know how to do backups, but how to design a system that will be reliable, professional, and optomized for quick and successful restores.<br />If you are serious about protecting Unix systems from potential disaster (especially if you do this for a living), then purchase this book! Thanks O'Reilly!	2002-01-05
US	47385893	R28034DPLV5ER5	0072121556	759030760	Rhce Red Hat Certified Engineer Study Guide	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent prep guide, despite a few errors.	Those who have brushed on the RHCE test know that it is a pretty grueling test.  Thankfully I bought this book.  This should be the first book you read in preparation for this RHCE exam.<br />What impresses me about this book, is that it is concise, yet the information is always relevant.  Ironically, for those who are new to Linux, and not taking the RHCE exam, this book is still very useful in that it doesn't inundate the reader with useful information.  Rather, it gives plenty of useful information at a relaxed pace, that anyone can keep up with.<br />Some chapters were particularly enlightening.  The chapter on kernel compilation was the best I had seen on this topic.  Out of 3 or 4 books I had read, this one was the easiest to understand, and also the most thorough.<br />One complaint that cost this book 1 star, were mistakes in the practice exams.  I found a few mistakes in a couple of the chapter tests that would frustrate the reader, or confuse him as to what was the right answer.  I hope that in the 3rd edition, this will be cleaned up because otherwise, this book is terrific.<br />I find myself using this book in the workplace too when I need a quick reference, so I think the authors deserve a round of applause.  This is the best guide on the RHCE around, and I consider it money well-spent.	2001-12-28
US	47385893	R3MOFJH3DUM7WF	0596000278	291037037	Programming Perl (3rd Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	An indespensible book for die-hard perl programmers	If you are a programmer, with an extensive background in programming theory, and a passion for Perl, this book is for you. This book, written by the creator of Perl, contains more details about Perl than one could possibly find in any other book. This book doens't hold back in discussing perl topics, but rather it discusses them inside and out without excluding anything.  For someone who has a thorough foundation in Perl, this is definitely the next step in exploring Perl.<br />If you are a casual programmer though, I must caution you that this book is pretty intense reading.  I found it helps to read this book while reading the &quot;Perl Cookbook&quot;.  The chapters for each book correlate to each other.  This book explains how everything works, while the Cookbook shows you how to apply these concepts in real life situations.<br />One complaint I had about this book were the unclear examples.  Other books by O'Reilly such as &quot;Learning Perl&quot; and &quot;Perl Cookbook&quot; will label each line of code in their examples so that there is no ambiguity.  However the example scripts in this book are sparsely labled, so it is not always clear what the author's intent is.<br />However, if you feel up to the challenge, I would definitely recommend this book.  After reading this book, your understanding of Perl will improve dramatically.  In addition, the last few chapters will provide a very useful reference regarding Perl's many modules, functions and such.  For serious programmers, you will thank yourself for buying this book.	2001-12-09
US	47385893	R27KHEYYWEDU0J	1565922433	895755295	Perl Cookbook	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Fantastic Book for Perl Programmers of All Levels	The idea of the Perl Cookbook was to give programmers of all levels ideas and techniques to improve their programming skills.  This is a rather grand undertaking, yet I must say that this book really does the job well.<br />Each chapter focuses on a particular aspect of Perl (such as arrays, hashes, or CGI) and presents &quot;recipes&quot; of various levels of complexity to do various tasks.  What is most impressive is that these recipes are geared toward real-life problems that Perl Programmers face.  I can testify to the usefulness of this book because I find myself referring to it again and again when I need to do something in Perl I am not already familiar with.<br />I truly believe that every serious Perl programmer must have this book whether for work or for home use.  It is truly indispensible for nearly every kind of Perl programming issue you might encounter.	2001-12-09
US	47385893	R1C81AB7WD6U6L	0596000111	636357694	SSH, The Secure Shell: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The Definitive Guide for SSH, excellent format.	I consider myself a prolific reader of O'Reilly books, and out of the many I have read, I find this book one of the best.  Its strong points are its excellent writing style, excellent formatting, and comprehensive treatment of the subject.<br />I find the writing style to be very easy to read, and entertaining, but more importantly, the authors make every effort to clarify important SSH concepts, and then relate them to later chapters.  The fact that the authors take the time to review and relate the information covered in previous chapters is something most authors miss, yet is very effective in making sure the reader will remember the information in the long term.<br />The format too is excellent in subtle ways.  When the authors refer to a concept in another chapter, they mark the chapter and section number in brackets nearby.  This makes looking up information much easier, and is another thing computer writers tend to overlook.  I sincerely hope these guys write more books for O'Reilly.<br />In terms of covering SSH, this book can't be beat.  Admittedly, the focus is very much on SSH for Unix, but the authors admit that from the start and point out chapters that are useful for PC/Mac users.  This book covers every facet of SSH1,SSH2, and OpenSSH, and covers all three effectively.<br />To summarize, anyone interested in SSH is strongly encouraged to read this book, particularly if you use Unix/Linux.  I feel that reading this book was time very well spent, and feel much more confident in regards to using SSH.	2001-10-27
US	47385893	R39AC7BK5K0HX8	1565923251	51644288	Webmaster in a Nutshell (In a Nutshell (O'Reilly))	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Fantastic Reference.	In the preface, the author writes &quot;when those books [how-to books] have been digested and placed on your bookshelf, this one will remain on your desktop.&quot;  I don't think I could say it any better.<br />This book is not designed to show you how to do HTML, JavaScript, PHP, CGi and so on.  It is designed as a reference, and I think it does a terrific job.  The format is very efficient, and easy to look up what you need.<br />Perhaps the best features of the book are the brief summaries of each section.  The reader is expected to already be familiar with that topic, but the book still provides a very succinct summary, just to make sure.  This is rather handy when you are somewhat familiar with the topic, but not a guru.<br />I particularly liked the section on getting the best performance out of the webpage, and webserver.  Many of the tips listed here are very common sense, yet can make dramatic improvements in load time.<br />Thus, to sum up. This book is a very comprehensive reference to several aspects of the web, including HTML, CGI, JavaScript, PHP and others.  Anyone who actively works in this field of computing should seriously consider purchasing this book.  You will use it often both as a reference, and as a brush-up.	2001-10-25
US	47385893	RGZNX4HBANBAP	0764550837	435249042	The GRE? For Dummies? (GRE CAT  FOR DUMMIES)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A must read!	My first time taking the GRE was a disaster.  I scored rather well on the SATs and assumed I would do the same in the GRE.  Reality turned out to be quite different.<br />So, my girlfriend bought this book for me.  I scoffed at first, but soon realized that it had what I needed.  The book assumes that you do not have enough time to go over all three subjects in great detail, so instead, the focus is on common patterns for such questions.  I think this approach is very effective because the alternative would be to review and review advanced vocabulary for months and months and still not know anything.<br />Speaking from my own experience, this approach has been very helpful.  My Verbal score improved by 20%, and my math score improved as well.  I practiced for the GRE by following closely this book, and using its review tests, and I believe it was time well spent.  I hope you will pick up this book as well.	2001-10-25
US	47385893	RTC2G3RI59I8U	0140445587	891229623	The Koran (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	32	36	N	N	Very poetic translation, but perhaps not the best.	The Koran is a very compelling and mysterious book, for better or worse (depending on your personal beliefs of course), but I think for anyone exploring Islam, this book is a good start, particularly for those who are new to Islam.<br />Mr. Daewood's translation is very beautiful and poetic, when compared to other translations I have seen.  I also like the unconventional format of this book, in that the shorter chapters go first.  This is intended for the new readers, so they do not get stuck on long, difficult chapters like The Cow, or Women.<br />However, for more scholarly interests, this book might not be the most accurate.  Difficult words and phrases tend to be translated in a way that is more dramatic or literary sounding, but may detract from the original meaning.  This could be problematic for those trying to discern the authorial context of the passage.<br />In any case, I did very much enjoy reading this version for what it is: a literary translation for the uninitiated.  For those new to Islam, this is a good place to start.  For others, I recommend looking elsewhere.  :)	2001-10-25
US	47385893	R1ODNMB9J9K1QP	055334935X	524015341	Tao Te Ching: The Classic Book of Integrity and the Way	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	A Refreshing, Scholarly translation of the Tao Te Ching!	Victor Mair is a well-known scholar of Classical Chinese, and I feel that of the many translations of the Tao Te Ching, his is the best by far!  Thanks in part due to the discovery of the Ma Wang Tui scrolls, this book provides a refreshing change to the cookie-cutter translations I have seen in the past, and in the back of the book goes into great deal on why he translated thing the way he did.<br />As a amateur in Classical Chinese myself, I feel that Mr. Mair's translation is definitely the most accurate in relation to the general mood of the time in China, when many other such classics were being written (Confucius's Analects for example).  Many of these classics drew upon the same pool of ideas, and this particular translation shows the mood of that time better than any other I have seen.  Most translations tend to interpret words and phrases in a modern light, but Mair's is true to philosophy of the time.<br />I also like the detailed analysis that Mair does in comparing the Tao with other religions in Asia (in particular Judaism and Hinduism) and how they also drew upon a common pool of ideas prevalent at the time.  I believe he makes a very strong case for this.<br />For those who are not interested in the historical aspect of Taoism, I feel they will still enjoy this book very much because this translation preserves the spiritual mystery of the Tao Te Ching (another aspect most translations lack), and lets the reader interpret the meaning as he/she sees fit.<br />Anyhow, in closing, a fanstatic translation, that stands above the rest.  I strongly recommend this for both scholars and enthusiasts alike.	2001-09-23
US	47385893	RVWHAT43JLKOU	0596001320	743185491	Learning Perl, Third Edition	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Quite a useful beginning to Perl	My first experience with Perl was a book that I had bought at a used bookstore.  It was terrible!  After trudging through that book, I learned some basic Perl, and have been able to write CGI.<br />However, one day I picked up this book and found there was quite a lot of stuff I had missed.  I read it all the way through, did all the exercises, and voila!  My Perl has significantly improved.<br />Of all the O'Reilly books on Perl, this one is the best for a Perl beginner to start with.  The two best aspects of this book are the careful, though light-hearted explanation of many perl concepts (some I thought I had known) and the assignments at the end of the chapters and the fact that this book prints the answers in the back (surprisingly few books do that).<br />This book is definitely geared toward Unix, so if you don't use Unix, I would recommend the Win32/Perl book by O'Reilly.  Also, there are a couple points where it is difficult to follow, namely chapter 1, and chapter 19.  However, I have used this book as a textbook for my Perl class, and found it is the best by far.  Most other books are either too easy, or too cursory.  It really is the best beginner's Perl book I have found yet.<br />Anyhow, in summary, despite some small setbacks, I would strongly recommend this book to beginners, or people who want to brush up on their Perl (especially if they learned it elsewhere).  Definitely two thumbs up!	2001-09-10
US	47385893	RXO1T0MHR5ME2	076450388X	639385638	Java Programming For Dummies	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly bad, terrible format	I like the &quot;Dummies&quot; series since it has helped me pass the GRE and learn HTML.  However, I was incredibly frustrated with this book.  I am so surprised that they published a book with so many errors.  For example, the &quot;Hello World&quot; program had quite a few errors and for some reason appeared 3 times on the same page!<br />The worst part was the flow and format.  I had to start on chapter 8 and begin reading backwards to understand the concepts introduced, but even then things were not explained clearly.<br />Its very rare when I give a bad review, but this one deserves 1 star just because of the numerous errors.  To tell you the truth, I returned it the following day after buying it and haven't done Java since.	2001-09-04
US	47385893	R1YHX0TDYZ1SV4	1565923065	298626172	Practical C Programming: Why Does 2+2 = 5986? (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Quite a useful book, for any programmer!	I judged this book not so much on how it taught C, but rather, how it taught to write programs.  In that respect, it was supreme.  I am more of a perl programmer, but the tips here on professional &quot;effective&quot; programming were quite useful for any language I know.<br />As a book on C, it is also quite good.  There might be better books out there, but I am happy to say that I am much more comfortable with C than I was before.  The only complaint is that the problems in each chapter (quite useful for practice) didn't have answers in the back (such as O'Reilly's Learning Perl).  Anyhow, worth the time and money in my humble opinion.  Thanks Steve!	2001-09-04
US	47385893	R1DJK6VF3WWK2H	086516472X	332790690	Cattus Petasatus: The Cat in the Hat in Latin (Latin Edition) (Latin and English Edition)	Books	4	16	20	N	Y	A good intermediate practice to Latin	Having tried to learn Latin, I found reading the Classics was extremely difficult.  Afterall, it is written by a native speaker, and I am no Latin native speaker.  So I found this book to be very useful.  The only problem is that it emulates Dr. Seuss's writing so well, that the whole book uses pretty much once case in Latin.  You will learn that case very well, but won't be able to practice other cases in normal writing.  However, I think it was a terrific idea, and I like the fact that all the words are listed in the back (as well as the context).  The fact that it uses more mundane words (compare with Caesar's Gaelic Wars) is also great for intermediate readers.<br />All in all, I consider it time well spent, not to mention, its just fun reading Dr. Seuss in Latin.	2001-09-04
US	47385893	R8WXG2I00TBHO	1565921275	700492242	Essential System Administration (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why didn't I read this earlier?  Very Comprehensive	Many books on Unix/Linux will cover a wide array of aspects, but nearly all of them will touch those topics, and give a brief overview.  This is great for the casual user, but for the system administrator, you need a more thorough grounding in Unix.<br />This book is the answer.<br />This book is very comprehensive because it includes every major flavor of Unix, even more obscure ones (like SCO Unix) and covers each aspect in fine detail.  When it talks about filesystems, it includes all kinds of relevant details a SysAdmin will need to know, and even some extras to make life more convenient.<br />The best part of this book is Aeleen's personal touch.  Being a SysAdmin of many years, she puts all kinds of personal (and relevant) anecdotes as well as her philosophical view of System Administration.  I like the 7 virtues of the System Administrator.  This is a clever touch that one should keep in mind when administering a Unix system.<br />In short, this book is a must have for all Unix System Administrators.  I can't imagine a better book on this subject.  Hopefully you will enjoy it too.  :)	2001-05-05
US	47385893	R3O264FPEHLBLE	067499101X	765032803	Xenophon: Anabasis (Loeb Classical Library) (English and Greek Edition)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A fantastic novel!	I have read Greek classics before, by several publishers, but I really like Loeb Classic version of this book.  As a story it is very exciting to see how Xenophon and his army fought their way out of Persia, only be to broken up by internal dissent.<br />I also enjoyed the format of this book because the original greek was printed on the left side of each page, so for Classics experts, you can see what Xenophon is really writing and come up with your own interpretation.<br />However, I feel that the interpretation is a good one though (evidenced by the many footnotes explaining why the translater did what he did).  All in all, this is a great book for Classics experts and those who aren't, but just want to know what happened.	2001-02-20
US	47385893	RVEUGMP2RWLLX	0140441239	138885707	The Conquest of New Spain (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Amazing and Compelling	I really enjoyed reading this book for several reasons.  Generally Bernal Diaz has been criticized for his bias in writing about what happened in the conquest of New Spain.  However, on closer inspection, you find that he is genuine is his feelings and attitude about the events.  He is not the most eloquent writer (afterall he is a soldier, and nearly 80 when writing), but he just writes what he saw.<br />Anyhow, in regards to the format of this book, I think Penguin did a good job editing the sections and summarizing the sections that detracted from the story.  What you are left with are the essential parts of Bernal Diaz's text, and with it, and exciting story of a small band of Conquistadors who took on a huge empire and won.<br />I felt that I also learned a great deal about the Aztecs themselves from this book.  Bernal, when writing, was very attendant to detail, and really painted a fascinating picture of a culture entirely seperate from the Old World, but no less grand.<br />I definitely recommend this book.  There is simply no better way to find out what happened when Spain came to the New World than from the eyes of a Conquistador who was there.	2001-02-20
US	47385893	R175WBC46I8SKG	0870529242	771197144	Vietnamese-English/English-Vietnamese Dictionary: With a Supplement of New Words, English-Vietnamese (Hippocrene Standard Dictionary)	Books	2	16	16	N	N	Not terribly useful	I am studying Vietnamese in college, and I have found that this book causes more confusion than it helps.  It does not cleary define words, and it is inconsistent when translating from english to vietnamese and vietnamese to english.  I would definitely not recommend this book.  However, I did give it two stars (instead of one) because it did contain some obscure words I would not be able to find else where (like 'Jesus freak').  :)	2001-02-20
US	47385893	R1LHR8B6SERLNO	0807005738	366134540	Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Community?	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Changed my life!	This book is simply amazing.  Even though it was written 45 years ago, it has a terrific insight into the problems of America.  Even though I am not Christian, I find that Martin Luther's ideas really apply to all people, no matter who they are.  Its a pity that more Americans don't read his books.  Anyhow, if you can find it, I highly recommend that you read it!  :)	2001-02-20
US	47385893	R2D7NFKI9R94EL	156592259X	176001210	Managing Mailing Lists: Majordomo, LISTSERV, Listproc, and SmartList	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Quite useful!	I bought this book because I needed to familiarize myself with ListProc, Listserve and Majordomo, all 3 of which are used at my University.  I got just what I needed.  This book covers everything you need to know about these, plus it has some extras which help round out the book.  I became convinced that SmartList was useful for my home system, and have installed it, and I also enjoyed some of the articles posted in the book.<br />My only coplaint about this book was the lack of clarity regarding email headers (which came up pretty often throughout).  I supposed I should have read the intro chapter more closely.  Still, it really wasn't hard to follow along the book.  I enjoyed this book much and can't wait to see the Second Edition.  :)	2001-01-02
US	47385893	R3A8D6HW9ZT280	1565924002	366090474	Linux Network Administrator's Guide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A really good introduction to Linux Networking	My one major regret was not reading this sooner.  :)  I found that this book provides a really nice easy to understand introduction to the different networking aspects on Linux.  I had read O'Reilly's TCP/IP Networking first (by Craig Hunt), and it had a great deal of detail.  If I had read this first, I think I would have understand that book more so.  Nevertheless, both are essential if you want do networking on Linux.  My only reason for giving this book 4 stars was the excessive amount of information regarding News servers.  I think a chapter or two would have sufficed, and then include some final thoughts and some trouble-shooting.  Still, I learned quite a lot, (even on the News server chapters) and I think you will too.	2000-12-15
US	47385893	R1JV4RQ00XJZJU	1565923472	553337007	Learning the bash Shell, 2nd Edition	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good intro to Bash	I found this book pretty useful as an intro to Bash, and bash scripting.  I found the first three chapters rather useful to configuring Bash, and the following chapters were useful in showing basic bash shell.  I can testify to the usefulness of this book by the fact that I have been able to write several successful bash scripts on my computer.  My only complaint was the latter chapters on advanced bash programming.  These chapters tended to be somewhat hard to read, and a little confusing (hence the 4 starts).  All in all, it was money well spent.  :)  Thanks Bill and Cameron!	2000-12-08
US	47385893	R3RG0WXC49HA7H	1565922255	480381905	sed & awk	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good intro to Sed and Awk, plus more	This book had far more information on Sed and Awk than I really wanted to read, but objectively speaking, this book did a fabulous job explaining how to use both.  The idea of linking them together in one book seems odd, but the author did a pretty nice job utilizing both.  I particularly liked the section on debugging awk because the techniques he explained are very applicable to program debugging in general.  I also found the section on regular expressions very clearly written and easy to understand (the best I have seen thus far).  I wish I had read this book sooner.  Also, to the credit of this book, I saved quite a lot of time recently updating about 90 flat files in seconds using sed.  Awk has proven quite useful recently in another project too.  Thank you Dale and Arnold!	2000-12-08
US	47385893	R3UH1WHKSMWF4U	1565923227	610378784	TCP/IP Network Administration	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful intro to TCP/IP	I read this book because I needed to know as much as I could about what TCP/IP is, and things like email, networking, and how it all works.  This book taught me everything I could want to know about TCP/IP, and was for the most part pretty easy to read.  On chapter in particular gave a brief intro to Sendmail, so i went home and tried it out and it worked great!  The other chapters are just as good.  Of the many O'Reilly books I have read and bought, this ranks in the top 2 (the other is Running LInux).  Thanks Mr. Hunt and thanks O'Reilly!!!	2000-11-26
US	47385893	R3MK5UCKDRRXQW	156592469X	726193494	Running Linux	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The first and best Oreilly book I have read	This is the first book I had ever read about Linux, and it is still the best.  I found it to be most useful in explaining simple things that other linux books (and webpages) overlook.  It also explains things rather clearly, and provides a nice intro to just about everything a beginner needs to know.  If you are somewhat familiar with Linux, you might still find a few things you didn't know before, though I'd recommend reading another book.  Anyhow, money VERY well spent!	2000-11-01
US	47385893	R3VSYDJ70MWC08	1565920546	202592354	Learning the Korn Shell (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Quick and concise intro to Korn Shell	Korn shell is a Unix shell environment that really comes in handy in most Unix machines, because it provides a flexible and powerful alternative to regular Bourne Shell.  This excludes Linux, which uses Bourne Again Shell (bash).  Professional IT people who want to work in such Unix environments as Solaris and AIX should definitely take the time to read this book.<br />I really enjoyed how this book covers every aspect of Korn Shell, from setting up your environment files, to writing complex scripts.  Most books cover how to program in Korn Shell, but if you can't work in the Korn Shell environment, then it is not easy.<br />I have read both the first and second edition, and I liked first edition alot, but it suffered from some terse examples, and really expected you to be a C programmer.  The second edition is a major improvement, in that it has richer examples, and provides better explanations of Korn Shell concepts.<br />In summary, I highly recommend this book for people who want to work in Unix environments (again excluding Linux), particularly IT professionals.  This book provides a very comprehensive guide to a very useful tool.  Enjoy!	2000-10-23
US	47385893	R3RBNEBBITEE7N	1565924266	864318233	Learning the vi Editor (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Best VI book yet	I knew little about VI before reading this book, but I now i feel very comfortable using it.  I like the layout and the fact that it has references and summaries all over the book.  This is a book you will most likely use again and again.  My only complaint were the chapters on advanced editing which were hard to understand if you are not versed in regular expressions (hence the 4 stars).  Still, I learned much from this book, and hope you will too.  VIVA Oreilly!	2000-10-23
