US	47392054	R30A9OHLQQB799	015101048X	549807243	The Circus in Winter	Books	5	1	1	N	N	PATIENCE AND CARE PAY OFF...	...and it's easy to see that Cathy Day exercised both in the writing of this wonderful collection of related stories.  In her notes, she reveals that she began writing these in 1991 -- I'm guessing that it was more or less complete a year or two before publication in 2004, so that works out as around 12 years of composition, preparation and loving polish.  The glow of such a method is visible in each and every one of these tales.<br /><br />Day infuses her characters with that magic we call 'life' -- even the ones (such as Jennie Dixianna) that are a bit 'over the top'.  These are circus people, after all -- both in legend and in reality they are larger than life.  One of Day's great accomplishments here is achieved through her careful crafting -- beneath the greasepaint and bravado, under the surface of the pain, abuse and depression, lie flesh-and-blood people with talents and faults and loves and heartbreaks and dreams...and nightmares.<br /><br />Each story in this volume is infinitely believable and intimately touching -- and each one speaks to a different facet of the jewel that is our humantiy.  It's a great read, and it makes me hope for more from this talented writer.	2004-11-19
US	47392054	R3895UCB3VNFTJ	1582344272	53497484	Heaven Lies About Us: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	AS PERFECT AS WRITING GETS...	Eugene McCabe amazes me more with everything I read by him.  I first discovered his incredible talent in his novel DEATH AND NIGHTINGALES -- it caused me to seek out other works.  While his output is paced in a way to cause his fans to ache for more, the quality of it all is first-rate.  More than anyone I've read, he captures the song of Irish speech and the symphony of the Irish spirit, joys and sorrows alike, in his words.<br /><br />The characters in these stories come to life before the reader's eyes, and in the reader's imagination, in a way that few authors have managed to master -- and they do so in such a natural manner as to make the transition from the printed page to the living, breathing world seem effortless.  That's one of the marks of a great writer -- the work draws the reader in without even a 'bump'.  We are transported to Ireland -- past and present -- and bear witness to the drama of these characters' lives.  The unimaginably horrific times of the famine years; the day-to-day struggle not only to survive, but to do so in a way that allows the soul and spirit to continue to thrive in the body; the 'troubles' that have for so many generations threatened to claw the country to bloody bits;  the conflicts between the classes.<br /><br />If I had to single out an individual story in this collection for my highest praise, I would have to cite the title piece, 'Heaven lies about us'.  McCabe relates the story of a young girl with a terrible secret, who knows she must share it but fears the consequences -- her pain and dread, and the pure heartbreak of her story left a stone in my heart.  He has captured every aspect of her situation from her point of view -- and done so with such skill that the characters and setting seem to settle into the room with the reader.<br /><br />McCabe, born in Scotland (his parents were Irish), returned to Ireland in the 1940s to live -- he lives and works his farm in Co. Monaghan, and writes...thank God he writes.  His heart, soul, eyes and ears are at home in Ireland, and his powers of observation are keen.  It's a gift that's rare -- I can read these stories over and over and they still move me very deeply.<br /><br />These stories are collected in this volume for publication in the US for the first time -- it's a great opportunity for American readers to experience his work.  He's a true master, and I consider it a deep blessing to have discovered him.is heart, soul, eyes and ears are at home in Ireland, and his powers of observation are keen.  It's a gift that's rare -- I can read these stories over and over and they still move me very deeply. <br /> <br />These stories are collected in this volume for publication in the US for the first time -- it's a great opportunity for American readers to experience his work.  He's a true master, and I consider it a deep blessing to have discovered him.	2004-10-20
US	47392054	R1OFLP1KL64JY	0253208874	37198627	The Films of Andrei Tarkovsky: A Visual Fugue	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A MUST-HAVE FOR THOSE TOUCHED BY TARKOVSKY'S WORK	I agree with points made by some of the various reviewers below.  First of all, this book is vital for the general viewer of Tarkovsky's films as a tool for coming to a greater understanding of the director's methods and motivation.  They offer synopses of all of the films (with the exception of MIRROR, whose structure is so unusual as to make a synopsis impractical -- it's analysed almost scene-by-scene in the body of the book) as an appendix -- an essential aid, considering that all of them are subtitled in English, and, as the authors point out in several places, those subtitles are of varying accuracy from edition to edition.  It's also very difficult for even the most adept subtitle artisan to convey things such as sarcasm and irony -- very often viewers who don't speak the language in which the film was shot are left in the dark where such subtleties are concerned.  The knowledge the authors have accumulated of the Russian language and culture are put to good use here in helping the Western viewer of Tarkovsky's incredible films come to a more complete understanding of them -- an understanding that will always, given the unique nature of this director's work, be tempered by the viewer's own soul and spirit.  These films speak to me on that deep level, as I know they do to many, many others -- this is part of what Tarkovsky had in mind, I believe, when he stated that he wanted the audience to work as hard as the director in 'creating' the finished product.<br /><br />Individual films are brought into focus in chapters devoted to them -- Tarkovsky's work-path of creation is followed in detail, outlining conception, planning, struggles with the authorities, critical and public responses, and the director's reflections on the finished works.<br /><br />Some of the other reviewers take exception to the critiques offered by the authors -- and indeed, it's easy to see where their own opinions enter into the writing process.  I believe this is going to be a natural part of any book on film, and has to be taken by the reader with a healthy grain of salt.  I didn't agree with everything they wrote -- perhaps some of their speculations as to Tarkovsky's psychological and emotional components are based on more information than they were willing to include in detail in this work.  Where the authors and I diverge on our views and opinions in no way tainted my enjoyment and appreciation of their efforts.<br /><br />I would recommend this volume very highly -- alongside Tarkovsky's own work, SCULPTING IN TIME -- both valuable keys to unlocking the treasure that is the work of this artist.l part of any book on film, and has to be taken by the reader with a healthy grain of salt.  I didn't agree with everything they wrote -- perhaps some of their speculations as to Tarkovsky's psychological and emotional components are based on more information than they were willing to include in detail in this work.  Where the authors and I diverge on our views and opinions in no way tainted my enjoyment and appreciation of their efforts. <br /> <br />I would recommend this volume very highly -- alongside Tarkovsky's own work, SCULPTING IN TIME -- both valuable keys to unlocking the treasure that is the work of this artist.	2004-08-06
US	47392054	R2KXNP46NSWUPL	1585670987	270493498	The Book of Leviathan	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A WONDERFUL JOURNEY INTO STRANGENESS...	I've been aware of the depth and breadth of the mind of Peter Blegvad for many years now, through his musical endeavors (with Slapp Happy, as well as his solo work) - his creations have always been stimulating, bringing with them smiles and incentives for further thought and intellectual and contemplative explorations.  I had heard about his comic strip `Leviathan' (which appeared regularly in THE INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY in Britain), but until I purchased a copy of this collection, I had never actually experienced it firsthand.  I'm sorry I waited so long - this is a treasure.<br />Matt Groening (creator of `The Simpsons' and `Life in Hell') is widely recognized as a purveyor of twisted and useful reflections of real life, is quoted on the back of this volume:  `Peter Blegvad's comic strip is one of the greatest, weirdest things I've ever stared at.'  I heartily concur.  Blegvad combines his senses of humor and irony with his intellectual strengths and his amazing artistic abilities into `Leviathan', giving his readers an opportunity to take one of the wildest rides they're liable to experience.  The episodes in this book range from purely humorous takes on a baby's view of the world he inhabits to visual illustrations of puns to hallucinogenic explorations of the conscious and subconscious to sublime meditations on everything from the most seemingly insignificant daily occurrences to the meaning of life and death.  Quite a range, right?  Blegvad pulls it off beautifully.  Perhaps I'm a little prejudiced by already being a huge fan of his music, but none of his outings collected here come across as shallow or pretentious in any way.  The subtleties are many, the layers of wit are as innumerable as those in a chunk of mica - each reading reveals something missed the time before.<br />Leviathan himself - `Levi', as he is called - is a visual as well as a philosophical enigma.  He's drawn without facial features, which allows the reader to project his/her own personality/outlook more readily onto the narrator.  His parents and his older sister appear in some episodes, but for the most part he's accompanied and guided through the mazes of life (in all its dimensions) by the family cat, who gently imparts wisdom while at times openly expressing amazement that humans manage to survive without caretakers.  The artist's hand appears from time to time, allowing him to more directly interact with the characters and events depicted in the strip - and on a couple of occasions, the characters themselves make attempts to escape the bounds of the graphic territory.<br />I read this book in a couple of sittings - but I've revisited it often and at great length and leisure, with new rewards each time. In his introduction, Rafi Zabor admits that he has encountered a few `intelligent, literate, artistically sophisticated people' who just don't get it - and I suppose that's inevitable in any artistic undertaking.  It resonated within me at the deepest level - I can't recommend it highly enough./outlook more readily onto the narrator.  His parents and his older sister appear in some episodes, but for the most part he's accompanied and guided through the mazes of life (in all its dimensions) by the family cat, who gently imparts wisdom while at times openly expressing amazement that humans manage to survive without caretakers.  The artist's hand appears from time to time, allowing him to more directly interact with the characters and events depicted in the strip - and on a couple of occasions, the characters themselves make attempts to escape the bounds of the graphic territory.<br />I read this book in a couple of sittings - but I've revisited it often and at great length and leisure, with new rewards each time. In his introduction, Rafi Zabor admits that he has encountered a few `intelligent, literate, artistically sophisticated people' who just don't get it - and I suppose that's inevitable in any artistic undertaking.  It resonated within me at the deepest level - I can't recommend it highly enough.	2004-07-08
US	47392054	R4UA39AB3M04Q	031600023X	827119224	Worse Than Watergate: The Secret Presidency of George W. Bush	Books	5	25	36	N	N	SECRECY, LIES AND DECEPTION...?	...what would this author know about secrecy, lies and deception...?  Oh yeah - THAT John Dean...<br />The former counsel to President Nixon knows all too well where tactics such as these can lead.  In this book - which he labels a `polemic', so there is no mistaking his intent - he lays out a strong case detailing the abuses of power and trust that have been practiced by the Bush administration from the day he decided to run for president.<br />Drawing on his experience with the law as well as his knowledge of history, Dean tells how, as he began looking into the Bush presidency more and more deeply, it increasingly struck him as chillingly `Nixonian' - he points out many instances of what he describes as lying, dirty tricks, about-faces that were made when the original position turned out to be inconvenient or embarrassing, and behind-the-scenes sweetheart deals for powerful contributors.  The thing that frightens Dean the most, however, is the unprecedented level of secrecy under which this administration operates - which he believes should frighten each and every one of us as Americans.<br />Each chapter of the book begins with a quote - some from famous public servants, some from respected political philosophers, and some from various agencies of the government itself - and each one underscores the damage that can be done to a free society when its government operates so completely out of sight.  One quote, from a 1960 report by the House Committee of Government Operations, warns against the dangers of secrecy in government, that it `...must be at bare minimum in a democratic society, for a fully informed public is the basis of self-government.'  From their actions, it's pretty obvious that those who are setting the course for the Bush administration think it's better for them to function out of sight, out of mind - the old adage that says if you're hiding your actions, you must have a reason to hide comes to mind.  Dick Cheney, through various public statements, has made no secret of the fact that he favors a return to an imperial presidency, wherein the powers that be are set free from the bonds of answering to the people, for whom they supposedly work.  They have elevated stonewalling to a new `artistic level - and if they are continued to be allowed to function in darkness, they will drag the nation into that darkness.<br />Dean's book is well-researched and annotated - his sources are clearly listed, and he invites the reader to dig further in order to understand the depth and breadth of the actions he's describing.  He says that he didn't come up with the title - WORSE THAN WATERGATE - and that he doesn't use it lightly, but the further he investigated the methodology and mind-set of the Bush administration, the more apt he thought the title.<br />In an election year - especially one having the potential of this one - this book is essential reading.ents, has made no secret of the fact that he favors a return to an imperial presidency, wherein the powers that be are set free from the bonds of answering to the people, for whom they supposedly work.  They have elevated stonewalling to a new `artistic level - and if they are continued to be allowed to function in darkness, they will drag the nation into that darkness.<br />Dean's book is well-researched and annotated - his sources are clearly listed, and he invites the reader to dig further in order to understand the depth and breadth of the actions he's describing.  He says that he didn't come up with the title - WORSE THAN WATERGATE - and that he doesn't use it lightly, but the further he investigated the methodology and mind-set of the Bush administration, the more apt he thought the title.<br />In an election year - especially one having the potential of this one - this book is essential reading.	2004-07-01
US	47392054	R2MDEC2SE3EXH4	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	4	40	49	N	N	A GOOD TOOL FOR THE CONVERTED...	...but not a book that's going to change anyone's mind.  David Corn makes no bones about his contempt for George W. Bush and his policies - the title alone will probably keep any real Bush supporters from reading this work, which is a pity.  It's very revelatory, if a little dry at times.  As another reviewer correctly pointed out, after a while, it gets to be a little `list'-like - although Corn's information is presented clearly and the book as a whole is organized well.  He follows Bush from his candidacy, his appointment by the Supreme Court, his administration both before and after the 9/11 attacks, up through at least part of the war on Iraq.<br />The book seems well-researched - there are no footnotes or endnotes (although there's an index, which is helpful when using the book as a reference), but Corn mentions his sources as he goes along.  I certainly came away from the book with the impression that the author has done his homework, and that he's dedicated to his task.	2004-07-01
US	47392054	R49TM7I3YQUU1	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	IF YOU ONLY READ ONE POLITICAL BOOK THIS YEAR...	...make it this one.  I don't make that statement lightly, because I've read several that I consider to be essential reading.  There are several things that make Clarke's book so valuable.  For one thing, his tone:  he doesn't come across as a wild-eyed liberal.  I love the writing and work of Al Franken, Michael Moore, Joe Conason, Craig Unger, and others - but as well-written (and in Moore's case, filmed) as their works are, the very zeal with which they pursue their topics is going to keep most conservative thinkers from giving any honest consideration their points of view.  Their works are moving and well-researched, and are potentially eye-opening and instructive for those who are of the opinion that the Bush administration is headed down the right (no pun intended, really...!) path - but few people on the Right are actually going to sit down and read any of them and seriously consider what they're saying.  Clarke doesn't come across in his book as a Bush-basher for the sake of it - he makes a point of illuminating what he sees as Bush's good points, but he pulls no punches when addressing those areas where he thinks the administration has taken wrong turns in dealing with terrorism.<br />Clarke has been working in government during the administrations of the last seven presidents, and has worked in the White House under George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.  He has dedicated much of his adult life to the service of his country, and in the last few years he has been a leader in the fight against terrorism.  He knows what he's talking about - and he knows what consequences lie ahead of our nation if the problem is not addressed head-on, with all of the resources we can muster.  He has worked enough over the course of his career with Middle Eastern issues that he knows the region well - and the clarity of his vision and insight are level-headed and resolute.  He recognizes the subtleties that are at play beneath the surface of events, as well as the strengths, weaknesses and idiosyncrasies of the various cultures involved.  He not only gives the reader a clear picture of the history of the region, and America's relationship with the players (and the consequences of those relationships) - toward the end of the book, he lays out what he sees as vital areas in need of the correct attention of U.S. foreign policy.  He knows the value of a strong military, but he also knows that every fight cannot be won, nor every alliance made, at the point of a gun.<br />Particularly revelatory I thought was Clarke's view of the Clinton presidency.  It's his contention that Clinton did a lot more to fight terrorism - and al Qaeda in particular - than is widely known.  With all of the media and Congressional attention given to the storms that were generated over Clinton's personal foibles, there's little wonder that much of what he accomplished went by unnoticed by a country whose press seemed to suddenly turn into tabloids in their coverage.  Clarke admits to having his doubts about Clinton's resolve, and his willingness to use military force when necessary - but he came away from a number of experiences comforted by the knowledge that the president grasped the significance of the al Qaeda threat as was willing to deal with it.  When Bush came into office in 2001, Clarke was shocked and dismayed at the indifference the president's staff seemed to give to the terrorism issue.  His impression was that they were mostly stuck in a `Cold War' mentality, unable to comprehend that the direst threat posed to the United States would come not from a nation, but from a group like al Qaeda.  Tragically, events would prove him right.<br />The Right has vilified Clarke - they have attempted to portray him as a disgruntled ex-employee seeking revenge, and they're doing both the author and our country a disservice in the process.  I didn't get the slightest impression from this book,  nor in any of the interviews with the author, or other appearances that I've caught on television, that Clarke is in any way spiteful or resentful.  He's an intelligent, thoughtful and dedicated man - he is possessed by a patriotism that sees beyond party lines.  The book is a gripping read - all the more so because it's fact, not fiction.  As I mentioned at the first, the books by Franken and Moore (and others) are valuable tools, well-written and full of good points and information - but this is a book that your Right-wing uncle (or other relative, or friend - you know, the one you're always arguing with...?) is more likely to read.  It has the potential to open eyes and minds - and our nation could always use more of that.rances that I've caught on television, that Clarke is in any way spiteful or resentful.  He's an intelligent, thoughtful and dedicated man - he is possessed by a patriotism that sees beyond party lines.  The book is a gripping read - all the more so because it's fact, not fiction.  As I mentioned at the first, the books by Franken and Moore (and others) are valuable tools, well-written and full of good points and information - but this is a book that your Right-wing uncle (or other relative, or friend - you know, the one you're always arguing with...?) is more likely to read.  It has the potential to open eyes and minds - and our nation could always use more of that.	2004-07-01
US	47392054	RLBUMG8DYQXQA	074325337X	760100886	House of Bush, House of Saud: The Secret Relationship Between the World's Two Most Powerful Dynasties	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	PEELING BACK THE VENEER	I can only surmise that the copy of this book read by one of the reviewers below (`NO FACTS') must have had most of its pages missing - or that the reader is coming from a place where the definition of `facts' is radically different from the accepted one.  Craig Unger's book is chock full of facts - he has done exhaustive research, which is meticulously annotated (there are nearly a thousand notes, some of them quite lengthy).  Additionally, unlike many of his Right-leaning counterparts, he actually uses information from both sides of the `aisle' - what a concept! - which in turn leads to a straightforward look at the subject at hand.  That subject is the incredibly intense and labyrinthine commingling of business, political and personal interests that tie the Bush family (and their friends and supporters) to the Saudi royal family.  The ties that Unger documents so clearly go back over 30 years - and the ensuing time has done nothing to weaken them, at least up until the present.  The tragic attacks of 9/11, the subsequent events and their fallout may have a different tale to tell when all is said and done.<br />The crony capitalism and government-by-secrecy practiced by the Bush administration are laid bare here - the inside deals, the lucrative favors given and received, the about-faces in policy which have occurred when convenient, the end-justifying-the-means mentality that seems to govern everything they do.  The facts laid out by Unger cannot be simply explained away as `coincidence' - and the actions of the administration to cover up their actions and their relationship with the Saudis merely demonstrate that they have something to hide.  This book does a great service to America by exposing what has gone on `under the radar' - hopefully it will cause a lot of people to ask some vital questions.  Who knows, maybe if enough people ask firmly enough, the questions will actually get answered - wouldn't that be refreshing?<br />Why were dozens of Saudi citizens - including members of the bin Laden family - allowed to fly out of the US soon after the attacks on 9/11, when US air traffic was pretty much completely shut down?  Why were the people on board these planes not at least interviewed by the FBI or other federal agencies who made such a show about protecting the `homeland'?  Why did Bush suddenly change his position on the Middle East peace process - from a stated policy of non-involvement to one espousing a `road map for peace'?  Why were so many of the high-rolling, high-contributing supporters of the Bush family given such powerful positions in his administration?  Why is his administration being run with the highest level of secrecy in the modern era?  Why has the administration actually WEAKENED the fights against terror by switching their focus from Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda - the actual perpetrators of the 9/11 attacks - to Saddam Hussein and Iraq, whom no less of a key player than George W. Bush now admits had `no ties with Al-Qaeda'?<br />While Unger's opinion on these and other matters isn't hard to discern, his journalistic ethics and methods cannot be seriously questioned.  He has garnered information from a variety of sources:  Democrats, Republicans and Independents, dozens of present and past government officials both in the US and Saudi Arabia, friends and business associates of the Bush and Saud families, and others who are knowledgeable and expert in these matters.  The result is eye-opening, and pretty scary - decisions that have affected the lives of thousands of people, military and civilian, in the US, Iraq and other countries, have been made as if they were business decisions, all the while being touted as acting the interests of `national security'.  It's outrageous - and this well-written account is essential to understanding how this house of cards was built.<br />The book deals with many serious, complex issues, and the result is surprisingly readable - it's also a vital tool that every American who plans to vote in November should read.merican who plans to vote in November should read.	2004-05-19
US	47392054	R36SDUEX9AOI0F	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	5	43	46	N	Y	ESSENTIAL READING FOR ALL AMERICANS...	...NOT just for those who consider themselves to be `liberals' or on the `left'.  The `big lies' to which Conason refers in the title of his newest book are a double-edged sword.  Not only has the right-wing conservative press perpetrated horrific and dangerous mistruths about the events leading up to and following the tragedies perpetrated on 11 September 2001 - they have convinced many otherwise sharp-thinking Americans that most of their countrymen adhere to the same mangled logic spewed out on a daily basis by such `authorities' as Rush Limbaugh, Bill O'Reilly, Ann Coulter, Sean Hannity, ad nauseum.<br />Conason's book is meticulously researched and annotated - and unlike his counterparts screaming like crazed harpies on the right, he actually uses reliable sources.  One of the methods practiced by the conservative media is to allow one of their individual mouthpieces to put out a lie or half-truth, then everybody else in their camp begins to quote it as a source (usually well-aware of its initial inaccuracy), over and over, until its repeated enough that people actually begin to believe it.  Another neat little trick is to answer the question they WISHED they had been asked rather than the one that was actually posed.  Our President has become very adept at this - as his recent `press conference' will attest.  Those members of the press who notice the shell game eventually give up, and the miscreant story makes its way into the `fact' column.  There are notable exceptions in the press - thank heavens - such as Mr. Conason, who are determined to get the truth out there for people to read.<br />Those of you who might believe the line about the `liberal media' should ask yourselves a couple of probing questions.  If the media is so liberally biased, you would expect that the coverage of a small story like, say, the 2000 US Presidential elections, would have been slanted so that there were more stories concerning Gore that were positive, and more stories about Bush that were negative.  The facts show just the opposite.  Conservatives hammer the oft-quoted statistics that show that `most reporters say they vote Democratic' - well guess what:  the reporters don't control the content of the papers for which they write, the editors and publishers do - and the editors and publishers are mostly `conservatives' (a word that they actually misapply to themselves, as Conason so clearly illustrates), and the endorsements of the top newspapers in the US have become increasingly conservative over the past few elections.  Why is this?  It's certainly not a reflection of public opinion - endorsing and electing right-wing candidates is more in the interest of the ultra-wealthy who actually CONTROL the press.  They're perfectly happy to get the tax cuts that benefit the top 1% of Americans and pay little more than lip service to those who actually WORK for a living.<br />It's desperately important, of course, for liberals to read this book - the information contained here is invaluable in this election year.  But I would suggest that those in the middle and working class who consider themselves to be conservatives, who think that the Republicans have the best ideas about managing ANYTHING, read it as well - they might begin to get an inkling of how this shell game works.  Boy, are they going to get mad - and rightfully so.  No one likes to be fooled, especially about things that are as important as the economy, the environment and human rights - not to mention the WAR whose purpose seems to change as each individual card in the rickety assemblage falls out.<br />PLEASE read this book. Conason clearly and methodically addresses the questions I've mentioned and many others.  Americans need to understand HOW the information they receive through the mass media is distorted - and WHY and BY WHOM and IN WHOSE BEST INTERESTS.  Also, check out John W. Dean's WORSE THAN WATERGATE, Richard A. Clark's AGAINST ALL ENEMIES, Al Franken's LIES AND THE LYINGLIARS WHO TELL THEM, Michael Moore's DUDE WHERE'S MY COUNTRY, and Craig Unger's HOUSE OF BUSH - HOUSE OF SAUD.  My favorite bumper sticker that I've seen lately doesn't even mention a candidate:  THE MEDIA IS ONLY AS LIBERAL AS THE CONSERVATIVE CORPORATIONS WHO CONTROL IT.LIARS WHO TELL THEM, Michael Moore's DUDE WHERE'S MY COUNTRY, and Craig Unger's HOUSE OF BUSH - HOUSE OF SAUD.  My favorite bumper sticker that I've seen lately doesn't even mention a candidate:  THE MEDIA IS ONLY AS LIBERAL AS THE CONSERVATIVE CORPORATIONS WHO CONTROL IT.	2004-05-06
US	47392054	RW82GV2HW50SX	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	4	7	9	N	N	LOTS OF GOOD POINTS�	...but I have to say they would be a lot more effective if the sources and background information that backs them up were in footnotes as opposed to the 30-page section at the end of the book.  The people who read this book who already stand on the same side as the author won't have as much of a problem with this as those who really need convincing - and these latter readers are less apt to turn to the back of the book to find the back-up information.<br />Moore makes a lot of valid and valuable points - his love and devotion for the United States and the values on which the founding fathers based the Constitution are very deep and very real.  Those who ascribe to the tired and misguided `love it or leave it' mantra might not see it that way - but Moore loves his country like a true friend, enough to want to help it be even better, to help it enable more people to live a decent life.  The finger that he points is directed at big-money corporate America - and all of those who have made it their life's mission to keep it in power.<br />The upcoming election is a critical one.  America's place in the world as a country that stands up for honorable values, for uplifting the downtrodden, for being a true champion of real freedom and liberty - all of these things are at stake.  Like Al Franken, Moore's function is more that of a cheerleader for those of us on the `street level' who are more likely to make a difference with individual voters - the hard-liners that dominate the airwaves, and the increasingly-cowed mainstream press (seemingly afraid to push for actual answers to crucial questions) aren't going to be convinced by this or any other book that points out the house of cards in which the far Right has its `moral headquarters'.  It's up to us, and the time is at hand - the Limbaughs, O'Reillys, Hannitys and Coulters are screaming and thrashing because they're scared to death to think they're actually in the minority and on their way out.  The more `regular people' - the true majority in America - who are made aware of the lies and deception and greed that are driving the Bush administration's policies, the more likely it'll be that this American regime can be changed in time to prevent further damage.<br />This is an important book.  Also recommended:  Al Franken's LIES AND THE LYING LIARS WHO TELL THEM;  Joe Conason's BIG LIES;  Richard A. Clark's AGAINST ALL ENEMIES;  Craig Unger's HOUSE OF BUSH - HOUSE OF SAUD;  and John W. Dean's WORSE THAN WATERGATE.  Those of us who see the dire need for change have an obligation to school ourselves in the facts so that when we engage our friends and coworkers in political conversation (and PLEASE do so respectfully) we have the facts straight to back up what we say.- the true majority in America - who are made aware of the lies and deception and greed that are driving the Bush administration's policies, the more likely it'll be that this American regime can be changed in time to prevent further damage.<br />This is an important book.  Also recommended:  Al Franken's LIES AND THE LYING LIARS WHO TELL THEM;  Joe Conason's BIG LIES;  Richard A. Clark's AGAINST ALL ENEMIES;  Craig Unger's HOUSE OF BUSH - HOUSE OF SAUD;  and John W. Dean's WORSE THAN WATERGATE.  Those of us who see the dire need for change have an obligation to school ourselves in the facts so that when we engage our friends and coworkers in political conversation (and PLEASE do so respectfully) we have the facts straight to back up what we say.	2004-04-26
US	47392054	R2CUWEKVRS6Z7X	1569473161	132433358	A Bed in Heaven	Books	4	7	7	N	N	MUSINGS ON THE NATURE OF MORALITY...	I haven't read Tessa de Loo's previous (and highly acclaimed) novel The twins - I just happened to spot this one the other day, and it looked interesting.  In this slim (120 pages) volume, de Loo tackles some pretty large issues through her characters' story - and, as is usually the case when this is attempted by an author, leaves the reader with at least as many questions as answers.  Along the way, however, she tells a compelling story that gives the mind a few things to chew on afterwards.<br />The narrator of the novel - Kata, a woman of Hungarian Jewish heritage - begins the story by announcing that she has just buried her father, revealing almost in the same breath that she is lying in bed with his son.  The story of their mutual desire for each other, along with the tangled web of their history (both together and separately) is told over the length of the book - sometimes in the present tense, sometimes looking back at the past through direct or recounted memories of the World War II era and before.  Facts that have been accepted by family members and acquaintances for decades are suddenly thrust into the shadows of doubt and outright refutation.  It becomes clear pretty quickly that the nature of `truth' varies with perspective - as does the idea of morality.  How can one decide if a situation is morally correct or not if all of the facts are not known, if several versions of the events in question exist - all equally valid in various minds and memories?  One bases ones beliefs and actions on what one knows - if it turns out later that things were not as they seemed, is the morality reversed or altered?<br />Kata's father has always been a quiet man, a bit of an enigma, an immensely talented cellist who moved his listeners to tears yet never achieved the international notoriety that was deemed to be his due.  Secrets begin to be unlocked when his brother Miksa comes to stay with the family - Miksa is dying, and has journeyed to Holland from Hungary to see his brother one more time, and to deliver some family heirlooms into his hands:  photographs of people that young Kata has never seen, as well as a portrait of Kata's grandmother.  The face in the portrait looks remarkably like the young girl - this leads Kata to begin to wonder about all she has been told about her ancestors, and further events transpire that cause her to question if she really knows her father at all.<br />She first meets Stefan when she is a college student.  Two other girls take her to Stefan's apartment - the four of them wind up sharing a bed for the night, but Kata is more embarrassed than excited by the events (although she has to admit that her desires are stirred).  The moment she meets Stefan, she senses something about him, a nagging feeling that she knows him somehow.  He commissions her to paint the ceiling of his apartment with images of the sky and clouds - `heaven', he calls it.  One day, his mother drops by - as soon as she discovers Kata's name, she mentions that she hid a Jewish man in her attic during the war.  They soon discover that this man was indeed Kata's father - and the questions about the relationship between Kata and Stefan are brought to the fore, along with several others.  Who is Stefan's real father - Kata's dad, or the (...) with whom Stefan's mother also had relations during the war?  Did she really consort with the German officer to keep her home from being searched, thereby protecting Kata's father - or did she do it to taunt the Jew hiding in her attic?  How does the new knowledge - that they might be half-brother and -sister - affect the perceived morality of their relationship?<br />These are questions with which the reader must struggle along with the characters.  Nothing is as it seems, and good and evil are ambiguous shadows here - are the guiding principles to be facts and reality or intentions and perceptions?  The whole puzzle brings into debate the very nature of morality itself.  What causes sin - nature or nurture?  It's an age-old question, and I have a feeling we'll be debating it for eons to come.  It gives de Loo's characters a lot to think about - and the reader as well.<br />The novel is well-written and maintains its pace nicely - for that I gave it four stars out of five.  I'm not sure if anyone could reconcile the issues that are raised here, but de Loo has made a competent go of it - when the idea occurred to her, I'm sure she was tempted to back away from it.  Taking it on required some courage.re or nurture?  It's an age-old question, and I have a feeling we'll be debating it for eons to come.  It gives de Loo's characters a lot to think about - and the reader as well.<br />The novel is well-written and maintains its pace nicely - for that I gave it four stars out of five.  I'm not sure if anyone could reconcile the issues that are raised here, but de Loo has made a competent go of it - when the idea occurred to her, I'm sure she was tempted to back away from it.  Taking it on required some courage.	2004-04-18
US	47392054	R1QSQ5P36H30OP	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	3	4	N	N	BRILLIANTLY FUNNY -- LIKE IT OR NOT -- ESSENTIAL READING	A friend mentioned to me the other day that she likes Al Franken's humor and commentary, but that she worries that he should be 'more professional' in his style, so that those (to paraphrase Bruce Springsteen) blinded by the Right might actually listen to what he has to say.  I don't really think the Right is his 'target audience' here - just his target.  Those who pontificate on the vast number of Right-oriented talk shows that crowd the radio and television airwaves aren't likely to change their opinions or tactics under the influence of Al Franken (Arianna Huffington's conversion aside...).  I see Al more as a cheerleader for those already in the Liberal camp, a munitions supplier of ideas and facts, if you will.  My ex-wife has a great expression about what Al does - she calls it 'preaching to the choir', and it's an astute, perfectly apt description.  The implication of course, is that the choir is already firmly in the preacher's trench - but who knows what might happen if they are inspired to sing a bit louder, with more feeling and commitment...?<br />My friend had a point - the zeal with which Franken pursues his foes ('LIARS...!!'), combined with his piercing wit and his sometimes potentially-offensive language, could, I'll admit, put some people off.  Personally, I found it hilarious to the point of producing tears - but more importantly, backed up by meticulously researched source and background data.  There are a lot of personal opinions contained in this book - but the amount of verifiable information is quite stunning.  Subject by subject, point by point, lie by lie, distortion by...well, you get the idea...Franken exposes the methods of the Right like a surgeon going after a particularly elusive malignancy (an apt simile, if I do say so myself...).  It's tempting to dive into a discussion with one's friends or coworkers of the opposite political persuasion with a hearty 'Oh YEAH...?!!' - but in order for productive discourse to occur (hopefully without resorting to schoolyard fisticuffs), it's a good idea to have a quiver of facts with which to reload your bow again and again, sending barb after barb into enemy flesh...sorry, I got a little worked up there.  Anyway...this book is an invaluable tool for understanding the politics of deception, distraction, trickery and outright lies that is being practices on the public over the airwaves and in print - a public that deserves better.  They deserve to hear and know the truth before they go into the voting booth in November.<br />Read it and weep:  the Right, for seeing your shamelessness exposed in print;  the Liberals, for what has happened to fairness in reporting.  Most of my reviews are in the music category, so I'll end this by quoting British singer-songwriter Richard Thompson:  'It's time to ring some changes.'  Arm yourselves with the Truth, and let's get out there and sweep.<br />p.s. - I don't mean to imply that Franken is the only source of good information and Truth out there.  Michael Moore's writing is priceless as well - and there are countless others.  Start looking, and follow the links...read everything with an open mind, and check out anything that doesn't ring true to you.  Let's be debaters who think, and know their material - an mindless ideologue is a mindless ideologue, whichever side of the aisle he/she inhabits.ut resorting to schoolyard fisticuffs), it's a good idea to have a quiver of facts with which to reload your bow again and again, sending barb after barb into enemy flesh...sorry, I got a little worked up there.  Anyway...this book is an invaluable tool for understanding the politics of deception, distraction, trickery and outright lies that is being practices on the public over the airwaves and in print - a public that deserves better.  They deserve to hear and know the truth before they go into the voting booth in November.<br />Read it and weep:  the Right, for seeing your shamelessness exposed in print;  the Liberals, for what has happened to fairness in reporting.  Most of my reviews are in the music category, so I'll end this by quoting British singer-songwriter Richard Thompson:  'It's time to ring some changes.'  Arm yourselves with the Truth, and let's get out there and sweep.<br />p.s. - I don't mean to imply that Franken is the only source of good information and Truth out there.  Michael Moore's writing is priceless as well - and there are countless others.  Start looking, and follow the links...read everything with an open mind, and check out anything that doesn't ring true to you.  Let's be debaters who think, and know their material - an mindless ideologue is a mindless ideologue, whichever side of the aisle he/she inhabits.	2004-04-18
US	47392054	R2ZSE2TCC8J8QL	0316738956	634639403	Hunger: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	HUMANITY LAID BARE	This is such a small book to contain so very much.  Elise Blackwell has created something very special indeed with this, her first novel.  With eloquence and empathy, she transports the reader back in time to Leningrad in 1941 - the German army approaches, and the people in the city prepare for the attack, but it comes in a form they do not expect.  The Germans simply cut the city off from the outside world, and sit and wait for the inhabitants to starve to death.<br />Blackwell's narrator is an elderly Russian botanist living in America, looking back at his time in the blockaded city, remembering his wife and coworkers - remembering the choices that he and the others made in order to survive.  Before and during the war, he traveled the world with his colleagues, collecting specimens of plants and seeds from every continent in order to study them and find ways to better feed people in need.  The institute where he works - like every facet of Russian society at the time - is caught up in the political upheaval of a country being painfully reborn.  The director of the institute, once widely revered and respected both as a scientist and a human being, falls out of favor with the authorities and is sentenced to die.  Those who are left behind must choose to bend and survive or resist and perish - professionally, physically or both.  Once the German blockade of the city begins, however, they realize that there are far more pressing choices to make.  Do they open the storehouses of the institute and distribute the grain samples to the people, or do they preserve them in the name of science, for future generations?  The scientists at the institute agree to preserve the samples, to starve before they touch them - but it's a difficult promise to keep.<br />All around them in Leningrad, people from all walks of life are facing similar decisions.  As the blockade drags on - and it lasted for 900 days - desperation becomes more and more intense.  Horses disappear - then family pets, even rats are killed for their meat.  People begin to strip the bark from the trees to eat - lichen-covered stones are boiled for soup.  Food becomes the currency of the city - and people are willing to do all sorts of things to obtain it.<br />More than simply a picture of a horrible time, when so many people died and suffered, Elise Blackwell's novel is an incredibly moving portrait of humanity itself, a picture of what it truly means to be human and to be forced to make unthinkable decisions based on the need to survive.  The thoughts and memories of the narrator - and the words and actions of those around him - paint moving images in delicate but sure strokes.  An incredible amount of not only research, but sheer thought and contemplation went into the conception and creation of this book.  It would be a stunning accomplishment by a seasoned writer - as a debut, it shimmers.  This is a writer of great talent, soul and promise.pets, even rats are killed for their meat.  People begin to strip the bark from the trees to eat - lichen-covered stones are boiled for soup.  Food becomes the currency of the city - and people are willing to do all sorts of things to obtain it.<br />More than simply a picture of a horrible time, when so many people died and suffered, Elise Blackwell's novel is an incredibly moving portrait of humanity itself, a picture of what it truly means to be human and to be forced to make unthinkable decisions based on the need to survive.  The thoughts and memories of the narrator - and the words and actions of those around him - paint moving images in delicate but sure strokes.  An incredible amount of not only research, but sheer thought and contemplation went into the conception and creation of this book.  It would be a stunning accomplishment by a seasoned writer - as a debut, it shimmers.  This is a writer of great talent, soul and promise.	2004-04-02
US	47392054	R4Q6HRJ9U6XNI	0805068465	706952543	My Happy Life: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	PERFECTLY AND GENTLY VOICED...	Lydia Millet has achieved something wonderful and rare with this novel - she has envisioned and brought into being a difficult character, one who is uneducated yet breathtakingly eloquent, a mental patient who has every right and reason to be terminally angry and bitter at the world and the treatment she has received at its hands.  Her nameless narrator instead draws us gently into her world, allowing us to see and experience in an almost firsthand way the view from where she sits, her joys and sorrows and her very thoughts.  By the time I came to the end of this short book, I felt like I had met one of the gentlest, most forgiving spirits possible.  In spite of the horrific abuse she has suffered - at the hands of various foster parents, child services workers, doctors and others - she rarely voices a harsh word about anyone.  She experiences love and loss, pain and suffering, laughter and tears - and memory.  Her musings on memory are some of the most beautiful I've ever encountered, unencumbered as they are by the weighty trappings of a so-called education - they have the purity and honesty of a child, but reflect truths worthy of the deepest adult thought.<br />The entire story is narrated by the woman from within her locked room in a mental hospital - it has been abandoned, and is ready for demolition.  She has been forgotten - or perhaps left there purposely.  For a while, she thinks that someone is coming back for her, and she sits on her cot, waiting patiently for the door to open.  Eventually, she realizes that this is not going to happen.  She has water, but nothing to eat except toothpaste, shampoo and soap - and she doesn't recommend the latter two items as food.  Her memories begin to flow - she is writing them on the walls of her room with the stubs of pencils.  Her entire life is laid out before us in a tableau of unbelievably inhuman treatment - from her time as a foundling taken into the system (the `kindness of the state', as she puts it), to her placement in a succession of incredibly abusive and exploitative foster homes, to her eventual life on the street as a teenager who has `slipped through the cracks' (as have far too many), to her eventual commitment to a psychiatric hospital.<br />It's hard to imagine how someone who has been treated so badly by so many finds in her heart the ability to see beauty in the world and its people - but she does it.  There's no `Pollyanna' quality about her - Millet never lets her character slip into such syrupy, maudlin goop.  The author lays out the story with kindness and empathy for her character - and from time to time, doses of humor as well, which are carefully meted out and fall into the narrative quite naturally.  Her descriptions of the events in her life, and of the places she has seen, are quite lovely - rather than being inappropriately eloquent for someone who is uneducated (in a formal sense, at any rate), I think the beauty of her narrative should be taken as a literal rendering of her thought-flow.  As such, it's not at all incongruous with its narrator - and it manages nicely to connect her with the reader.<br />The book is a pretty quick read - and as such, it merits re-reading.  It's full of passages and thoughts that will resonate more and more deeply with repetition.  It's a thing of great beauty and feeling - don't let it slip past you.<br />`And I thought:  There is one birth of bones and skin, and then there is another.  And the second birth is the birth of the dream.'lacement in a succession of incredibly abusive and exploitative foster homes, to her eventual life on the street as a teenager who has `slipped through the cracks' (as have far too many), to her eventual commitment to a psychiatric hospital.<br />It's hard to imagine how someone who has been treated so badly by so many finds in her heart the ability to see beauty in the world and its people - but she does it.  There's no `Pollyanna' quality about her - Millet never lets her character slip into such syrupy, maudlin goop.  The author lays out the story with kindness and empathy for her character - and from time to time, doses of humor as well, which are carefully meted out and fall into the narrative quite naturally.  Her descriptions of the events in her life, and of the places she has seen, are quite lovely - rather than being inappropriately eloquent for someone who is uneducated (in a formal sense, at any rate), I think the beauty of her narrative should be taken as a literal rendering of her thought-flow.  As such, it's not at all incongruous with its narrator - and it manages nicely to connect her with the reader.<br />The book is a pretty quick read - and as such, it merits re-reading.  It's full of passages and thoughts that will resonate more and more deeply with repetition.  It's a thing of great beauty and feeling - don't let it slip past you.<br />`And I thought:  There is one birth of bones and skin, and then there is another.  And the second birth is the birth of the dream.'	2004-03-28
US	47392054	R6DJJ88A5DAQ1	0609609785	739719103	Was It Beautiful?: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	LIGHTENING THE WEIGHT OF GRIEF	The answer to the question posed by the title of this wonderful addition to my library is a resounding `yes!'.  That's not the way the title was intended to be taken, of course, but nevertheless...<br />I first came across Alison McGhee's writing in the form of her acclaimed novel SHADOW BABY - it impressed me so much that I sought out RAINLIGHT, which in no way let me down.  When I heard about the release of this, her third novel, I couldn't wait to get my hands on a copy.  With this work, anyone thinking that McGhee was a one- or two-hit wonder should be convinced that she's very much for real - and one of the best writers around today.<br />Like her previous two works, this story is set in the Adirondacks - rural upstate New York, small-town America, complete with its fair share of mildly eccentric characters.  The eccentricity of McGhee's creations never gets in the way of the story, as it might in the hands of some writers - her people never become caricatures.  She is such a gifted writer that the humorous side of them blends effortlessly with the more serious issues that they face - and, as a result, the inhabitants of her fiction are always completely believable, as real as they could possibly be.  They feel joy, they experience uncertainty, and they wrestle with the obstacles life throws their way.  In this story, as in her other novels, there are no really `bad' characters - everyone is simply who they are, pure and not-so-simple, and McGhee's portrayal of them in this way accomplishes two things:  it allows the reader to more closely identify with the characters, and it keeps the reader from being distracted by a too-easily-seen good-versus-evil set-to.  McGhee respects her characters, her story - and her readers - too much to stoop to such techniques, and the result is a treasure of a book.<br />The `culprit' in this novel is Grief - how to bear it, how to understand it, how to process it, how to lighten its load.  The main bearer of grief in this story is one William T. Jones - described by many (and on the jacket flap) as `the happiest man in upstate New York, a self-proclaimed king of the world who laughed loudly and often'.  William T. is blessed with a son whom he loves more than anything, a devoted wife, and his best friend Burl, a quiet, reserved man who knows more about those around him - and in a deeper way - than anyone suspects.  William T.'s son is William J. - and this is only confusing for a little while - and is blessed with the gift of music, which he manifests by constructing wind chimes, and by his love of listening to his father's friend Burl (who has perfect pitch) sing in his beautiful Welsh tenor voice.<br />William T.'s world is indeed perfect - until William J. is suddenly and inexplicably stricken with Cogan's syndrome, causing a rapid deterioration of his hearing, to the point of deafness.  William J. - and his father and mother - are desperate to understand his condition, and each, in their individual way, devastated by the unfairness of it.  William J.'s deafness is followed closely by his death - and it is this greater loss that sets the wheels of William T.'s grief and struggle in motion.  He detaches himself so completely from his former life that his wife leaves him as well, compounding his sorrow and confusion.<br />William T. is not alone, however.  He has his faithful feline companion, `Genghis Khan, king of the cats';  his `flock' (a motley crew of feathered foundling holed up in a barn on his property that stands as if by sheer will alone, on the verge of imminent collapse);  and, mainly, his friends.  Burl, chief among these, is tortured to understand what William T. is feeling, and aching to help him.  William J.'s widow, Sophie (William T. muses repeatedly over the question of whether she is still his daughter-in-law), and Crystal (waitress in a local diner) both love the grieving man in their own way, and are eager to help him as well.  This `conspiracy' of friends is at first invisible to William T. in his sorrow - but as things begin to fall apart for him, and things begin to happen that he can't explain, he begins to realize that he is, indeed, blessed and loved by those around him.<br />The journey William T. Jones takes to this revelation is a moving one - and revealing it here is no spoiler, it's hinted at on the jacket flap.  The beauty of this book lies in McGhee's narrative and character development skills.  Her method of revealing William T.'s thought processes - the book is told in third person, but centers around him, naturally - is utilized with such delicacy and naturalness that I felt privy to his actual thoughts.  Additionally, the voices of the individual characters are so perfect that I accepted them right away as intensely real.<br />In the hands of some writers, returning to the same small hamlet and bringing back several of the same characters from previous books would be hackneyed and clumsy - in McGhee's hands, it's absolutely perfect, and merely adds perspective to the other books.  She introduces previously seen characters gently and unhurriedly - it's a definite asset, never a distraction - and does so in such a way that it's not necessary to have read the other two novels in order to appreciate this one.  That being said, I can't imagine anyone reading this wonderful book and not wanting to explore the earlier works.  If you haven't done so already, you're in for a treat.st invisible to William T. in his sorrow - but as things begin to fall apart for him, and things begin to happen that he can't explain, he begins to realize that he is, indeed, blessed and loved by those around him.<br />The journey William T. Jones takes to this revelation is a moving one - and revealing it here is no spoiler, it's hinted at on the jacket flap.  The beauty of this book lies in McGhee's narrative and character development skills.  Her method of revealing William T.'s thought processes - the book is told in third person, but centers around him, naturally - is utilized with such delicacy and naturalness that I felt privy to his actual thoughts.  Additionally, the voices of the individual characters are so perfect that I accepted them right away as intensely real.<br />In the hands of some writers, returning to the same small hamlet and bringing back several of the same characters from previous books would be hackneyed and clumsy - in McGhee's hands, it's absolutely perfect, and merely adds perspective to the other books.  She introduces previously seen characters gently and unhurriedly - it's a definite asset, never a distraction - and does so in such a way that it's not necessary to have read the other two novels in order to appreciate this one.  That being said, I can't imagine anyone reading this wonderful book and not wanting to explore the earlier works.  If you haven't done so already, you're in for a treat.	2004-03-19
US	47392054	R3B44AQUO70LJK	0312304099	74763689	The Middle of the Night	Books	5	2	5	N	N	IT'S IN THE DETAILS...AND IN THE SOUL	In this debut collection, Daniel Stolar lets the reader know that he is a writer to watch.  His stories are a pleasure to read, drawing the reader in gently but firmly - and his characters live and breathe, offering up many reasons to care about them.  His prose is as detailed as a sharp-focused photograph - but it has the soul of a painting, giving the reader insights that lie beneath the image seen on the surface.  Through his dialogue and narration - all but two of these pieces are told in the first person - he exposes his characters one layer at a time, naturally and easily, allowing us the privilege of getting to know them slowly, at a carefully measured pace.  Utilizing this method as a firm foundation, Stolar builds his stories up as carefully as a stonemason creates a wall - their gravity holds them together far better than any unnatural glue.<br />These stories are like little windows into the lives of the individuals and families they depict - but he never makes the reader feel like a voyeur.  It's rather like being an unspeaking witness to the proceedings, and that's a rare treat indeed.  His tales focus on the characters at various times in their lives - there are coming-of-age stories here, as well as glimpses into the lives of seniors.  Stolar takes his characters into his heart and projects them onto the page faithfully, with great skill and respect - and while there are moments of pathos, as in life, there are plenty of instances where the humor shines through softly as well.<br />This is a writer whose work I will definitely seek out in the future.<br />Highly recommended	2004-03-08
US	47392054	R1HP91KOAS1IKX	1590300483	704332981	The Changeling of Finnistuath: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A 14TH CENTURY STORY WITH CONTEMPORARY RAMIFICATIONS	This is not Kate Horsley's second novel - but it's the second one I've read by her.  Her previous work, CONFESIONS OF A PAGAN NUN, was one of the highlights of my year when I read it - this novel takes the reader into the history of mediaeval Ireland in just as breathtaking a fashion.  Set in the 14th century, THE CHANGELING gives a believable and captivating glimpse into a world in the throes of change.  CONFESSIONS depicted an earlier era, when the Christian Church was attempting to gain a foothold among the pagans of Ireland - THE CHANGELING shows the Church struggling to maintain the power it has gained.  This is an extremely political struggle - on the surface it is depicted as a fight for the souls of the Irish people, to save them from the evils and temptations of their world, but it is really all about power.  The Church supports whoever has the power to assure its continued sway over the people.  True, there are many in the Church whose motives are honorable and spiritual - but when push comes to shove, decisions and alliances are made on a VERY pragmatic level.<br />The `changeling' of the title refers to the central character in this absorbing story - Grey, short for `Gregory', the child named for the father, who has for such a long time yearned for a son.  Before the child is born, Gregory assures his wife that if she bears him `another daughter' he will kill it with his own hands.  Fearing for the child's life - it's another girl, of course - the mother conspires with the midwife to save its life.  Claiming that a yellow moth brushed against the newborn's genitals just after birth, thereby raising the spectre of a curse, the women tell the father that he has a new, healthy son - but that to protect it from the potential curse, the child's genitals should always remain covered.  The child, as she/he grows, is not even allowed to know the truth.  If this sounds like a stretch, remember that this is set in the 14th century - most of the people were uneducated, and many superstitions were still strong even among those who had the benefits of the educational resources of the day.<br />In ancient Irish legends, a changeling was a being who was believed to be able to change shape - or gender - at will, as the situation demanded.  Although Grey is definitely female (and of course, she discovers this eventually), the various roles she finds herself playing throughout her life make the description an apt one.  The story follows her through her `boyhood' into adolescence and womanhood - the sections of the novel are entitled `The boy', `The whore', and `The mother'.  Horsley's writing style fits her subject perfectly - she unfolds Grey's story before the readers eyes gracefully and compellingly, giving all of these three stages of the character's life the respect and attention and insight they deserve.  There are horrible things depicted here - the plague, for one - it comes into the story as a terror of unknown origin.  Some argue that it is a harbinger of the End Days - and use that as an excuse to act without the constraints of law and decency.  In times such as these, without the modern knowledge of disease that we possess, its victims have no idea from whence it comes or how to prevent it.<br />The most striking difference between the writing in this novel and the earlier CONFESSIONS is the frank - and at times, VERY graphic - depiction of the sexual aspects of the story.  This of course weighs into the fray of the plot rather heavily, given the deception under which Grey has come into the world - and one of the greatest aspects of her as a `changeling' focus on her sexual identity.  The author dives right into this, in both content and language, with the first sentence of the book.  For those who have read CONFESSIONS, this might come as a bit of a shock - but I would encourage those readers to get whatever initial `gasp' they might have out of their systems early and get on with the book.  It's an incredibly rich story, told in a compelling voice - and very much a mind-opener.  Not just a vivid tale of 14th century Ireland, it contains many aspects that reflect on our so-called `modern' ideas and conceptions concerning gender identification and the nature - and place in our lives - of spirituality.y, told in a compelling voice - and very much a mind-opener.  Not just a vivid tale of 14th century Ireland, it contains many aspects that reflect on our so-called `modern' ideas and conceptions concerning gender identification and the nature - and place in our lives - of spirituality.	2004-03-03
US	47392054	R3NZJ9TU1XFK40	1852352493	366755004	Tales from the Poorhouse	Books	5	0	0	N	N	McCABE IS A MASTER OF VOICE...	The first work I read by Eugene McCabe was his incredible novel DEATH AND NIGHTINGALES - it's been a long time since I've come across writing that evoked its characters so powerfully.  TALES FROM THE POORHOUSE, an earlier work, shows me that McCabe is indeed a master at his craft.  The ability to conjure life and substance so readily for his characters is a magical one - and the strength of this gift rests on the firm foundation of the voices of the people in his work.  Those voices ring with truth - they are not embellished beyond the point of belief.  The humor, pathos, pain, suffering, and joy that are illustrated so vividly in these characters stands up well to the light of life.  It's obvious that the author loves these people he has imagined - based, I'm sure, on his own life experiences as well as the history of Ireland, his adopted country - and his respect for them shines from the pages of his work.<br />TALES FROM THE POORHOUSE takes a hard look at one of the most painful periods of Irish history - the mid-19th century, at the height of the so-called `potato famine', when a blight struck the potato crop and left `the poorest of the poor' to starve to death, or, if they were lucky enough to find passage, to emigrate to America.  Those who were left behind faced certain death from starvation or disease - typhus was rampant, spreading exponentially via raw sewerage and hastily-disposed corpses.  When these unfortunate souls could not pay the rent they owed as tenants to their landlords, they were evicted from their homes - the houses were `tumbled', razed to the ground and burned - and had little alternative but to enter into the poorhouses to work off their debts.  These establishments were man-made hells on earth - the women, men and children were segregated from one another, without regard to family ties, and with little warning upon entry.  Those who were considered to be less than in complete control of their faculties were consigned to lunatic wards - and the conditions there were even worse than those for the others.<br />McCabe relates this story from four points of view:  that of an orphan girl, the poorhouse master, a local landlord, and the final section by the orphan girl's mother.  Their stories are interrelated - and it's mind-opening to hear them told by these individuals, and to see them intertwine.  The distinctions between their individual outlooks are drawn perfectly, and reveal much about the social, political and religious structure at work in Ireland at the time.  The author's rendering of these characters is so perfect that I could hear them in my head as I read the book, as distinctly as if they were in the room with me speaking their thoughts.  Writing this effective takes my breath away, and makes me long for more.<br />There is humor to be found in these stories - but it's a dim light in the darkness of these characters' stories, and in the story of this sad era in Irish history.  Man's greed, man's inhumanity to man, and the lust for power are at the root of these `troubles' - as they are at the root of most troubles we bring upon ourselves as a race.  Hypocrisy plays its part as well - there's plenty of it to go around.  Particularly illuminating are the jealous exchanges between the Catholic and Protestant clerics in part two (`The master') - petty squabbling over matters of the soul.<br />Many of McCabe's works are theatrical pieces - and I see from the notes on this book that the pieces here were presented as a play on RTE (Irish television).  There's also a note that DEATH AND NIGHTINGALES is due to be filmed - that'll be a grand thing, and I hope I'm able to experience it in that form.<br />No matter if you've an interest in Irish history or Irish writers - if you enjoy fine writing, don't pass Eugene McCabe up.  He's one of the greatest voices writing today - and his words will echo in your heart and mind for years to come.nd the conditions there were even worse than those for the others.<br />McCabe relates this story from four points of view:  that of an orphan girl, the poorhouse master, a local landlord, and the final section by the orphan girl's mother.  Their stories are interrelated - and it's mind-opening to hear them told by these individuals, and to see them intertwine.  The distinctions between their individual outlooks are drawn perfectly, and reveal much about the social, political and religious structure at work in Ireland at the time.  The author's rendering of these characters is so perfect that I could hear them in my head as I read the book, as distinctly as if they were in the room with me speaking their thoughts.  Writing this effective takes my breath away, and makes me long for more.<br />There is humor to be found in these stories - but it's a dim light in the darkness of these characters' stories, and in the story of this sad era in Irish history.  Man's greed, man's inhumanity to man, and the lust for power are at the root of these `troubles' - as they are at the root of most troubles we bring upon ourselves as a race.  Hypocrisy plays its part as well - there's plenty of it to go around.  Particularly illuminating are the jealous exchanges between the Catholic and Protestant clerics in part two (`The master') - petty squabbling over matters of the soul.<br />Many of McCabe's works are theatrical pieces - and I see from the notes on this book that the pieces here were presented as a play on RTE (Irish television).  There's also a note that DEATH AND NIGHTINGALES is due to be filmed - that'll be a grand thing, and I hope I'm able to experience it in that form.<br />No matter if you've an interest in Irish history or Irish writers - if you enjoy fine writing, don't pass Eugene McCabe up.  He's one of the greatest voices writing today - and his words will echo in your heart and mind for years to come.	2004-02-23
US	47392054	R228OO62KMVJ23	0395937590	697408376	The Springs of Affection: Stories of Dublin	Books	5	7	7	N	N	STORIES THAT RESONATE WITH TRUTH...	...and that truth is, as the `troubles' of Ireland are frequently called, `a terrible beauty'.  These stories by Maeve Brennan, all but one of which originally appeared in The New Yorker, are of that level of truth.  The author was born in Ireland and came to America at the age of seventeen with her family - when they returned, she stayed...and she remembered.  Sharing these stories - some perhaps autobiographical, perhaps not - with us is a gift we should treasure, for they reveal not only deep, moving moments about the characters they portray, but about ourselves.<br />The stories collected here are divided into three groups - the `perhaps' autobiographical tales (told from the first person);  and two groups that center on the marriages and lives of two couples, the Derdons and the Bagots.  There is a sadness that permeates most of these stories - although there are moments of humor contained in them, to be sure - that sings in that peculiarly Irish way of sorrow that is too deep to voice otherwise.  The marriages of the Derdons and the Bagots are soaked in the dampness of resignation - a resignation to lives that must be accepted in lieu of anything that gives more satisfaction or happiness or joy.  It is a resignation that is heartbreaking.  I think we have probably all been touched by its cold hands at one time or another - when we are lucky, we can shake off their grasp.  If we give ourselves up to it, the weight will grow and grow throughout the length of our lives.  Perhaps in seeing what that weight has done to the lives of the people depicted here, we can find the strength and will to shrug off that weight.<br />Brennan's prose is marvelous - it captures everything vital in the lives of these characters, right down to the faded, damp-stained wallpaper in their homes.  Their hopes - which are invariably just as faded, if not more - and dreams, their joys and sorrows, are all depicted so vividly that we feel them at the deepest level.  That's an amazing accomplishment in writing - these stories should be more widely read for that reason alone.<br />William Maxwell, Maeve Brennan's friend and editor at The New Yorker, contributes one of the most illuminating and touching introductions I've ever read - it's incredibly useful to the reader's appreciation of both the author and her work.  I would suggest reading it a couple of times before entering into the stories themselves, and again when you've finished them.<br />This collection is a treasure - I stumbled on it by chance, another unexpected discovery.  `Luck of the Irish'...?  Perhaps.mplishment in writing - these stories should be more widely read for that reason alone.<br />William Maxwell, Maeve Brennan's friend and editor at The New Yorker, contributes one of the most illuminating and touching introductions I've ever read - it's incredibly useful to the reader's appreciation of both the author and her work.  I would suggest reading it a couple of times before entering into the stories themselves, and again when you've finished them.<br />This collection is a treasure - I stumbled on it by chance, another unexpected discovery.  `Luck of the Irish'...?  Perhaps.	2004-02-18
US	47392054	R3LIUPA35260LP	0879307188	921813043	Blue Melody: Tim Buckley Remembered	Books	5	8	10	N	N	LIFE'S SHINING MYSTERY	Lee Underwood's memoir of his years with the amazing Tim Buckley is one of the most heartfelt paeans to friendship and creativity I've ever read - and one of the most honest.  Underwood tackles his subject with eyes - and heart - wide open, and the result not only clears up a lot of the mystery that still surrounds Tim's life, but also celebrates the wonderful legacy that remains.  As Underwood states in the final chapter, Tim's life can teach us some valuable lessons.  `Our span is but a fleeting moment.  Death is arbitrary and absolutely democratic. Young or old, the QUANTITY of time doesn't matter...Only quality matters...Let us transform the shining mystery of our lives into art...He did.  So can we.'<br />Buckley was an astonishingly gifted artist - his music always challenged his listeners, dared them to follow him in his dance, celebrating life itself - with all of its joys and sorrows, highs and lows, darkness and light.  Those who took that challenge have been rewarded with the shining light that was Tim Buckley - those who abandoned him whenever he took a direction that was too demanding or too painful for them to follow turned their attentions to `easier' music.  What a shame.<br />Underwood was Buckley's lead guitar player on most of his recordings - and above all, he was Tim's friend.  He was along for the ride - he was the eyewitness to so many of the singer's peaks and valleys.  He opened Tim's eyes and mind to new, stimulating influences - and he watched Tim take them into his mind, heart and hand and run like the wind with them, transforming things he learned and assimilated into new ideas, new tools for his own artistic vision.  Along the way, various painful elements from Tim's life reared their heads - as they do for all of us - and Lee was there to witness that as well, trying his best to help his friend through them.  Those pains are laid bare in this book - and it's not an easy read, but it's comforting in its truthfulness.  Lee has had his share of pains as well - and the hard road he walked working through them is detailed here as well.<br />As dark as some parts of Buckley's life were, in the end I think they were overwhelmed by the brilliance that shone from him.  Anyone who has ever been blessed to hear him - either in person or on his recordings - knows what I mean.  It's a brilliance that can be heard and felt - and it can illuminate the life of anyone who will simply let it in.<br />One of the most fascinating aspects - for me - of this document is the psychological path.  The author relates events from time to time that literally jumped off the page at me.  I just read Arthur Janov's THE NEW PRIMAL SCREAM for the first time a few months ago - and several things in Lee's account resonated within me.  Sure enough, he mentions Janov in more than one place - and refers to psychotherapy on multiple occasions as one of the practices that helped him through some tough times, dealing with issues that won't simply `go away'.  I can't help but wonder how Tim's story would have turned out differently if he had been able to avail himself of some of the same assistance - Underwood recommended it to him, but it sometimes takes an individual a while to make the decision to take a trip down that street.<br />Tim Buckley had the courage and vision to live his life, his art to the fullest - and Lee Underwood has shown the courage to write about Tim's life in a way that shines with the same honesty with which Tim pursued his music (or perhaps surrendered to it).  This book is an amazing experience - any fan of Tim Buckley's music should be grateful to Lee Underwood for sharing it with us.are of pains as well - and the hard road he walked working through them is detailed here as well.<br />As dark as some parts of Buckley's life were, in the end I think they were overwhelmed by the brilliance that shone from him.  Anyone who has ever been blessed to hear him - either in person or on his recordings - knows what I mean.  It's a brilliance that can be heard and felt - and it can illuminate the life of anyone who will simply let it in.<br />One of the most fascinating aspects - for me - of this document is the psychological path.  The author relates events from time to time that literally jumped off the page at me.  I just read Arthur Janov's THE NEW PRIMAL SCREAM for the first time a few months ago - and several things in Lee's account resonated within me.  Sure enough, he mentions Janov in more than one place - and refers to psychotherapy on multiple occasions as one of the practices that helped him through some tough times, dealing with issues that won't simply `go away'.  I can't help but wonder how Tim's story would have turned out differently if he had been able to avail himself of some of the same assistance - Underwood recommended it to him, but it sometimes takes an individual a while to make the decision to take a trip down that street.<br />Tim Buckley had the courage and vision to live his life, his art to the fullest - and Lee Underwood has shown the courage to write about Tim's life in a way that shines with the same honesty with which Tim pursued his music (or perhaps surrendered to it).  This book is an amazing experience - any fan of Tim Buckley's music should be grateful to Lee Underwood for sharing it with us.	2004-01-30
US	47392054	R2TJJL316A898V	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	5	45	46	N	N	TAUT AND COMPELLING	I probably wouldn't have read this book if it had not been gifted to me at Christmas by my best friend - she had seen the film, and knowing how much I like to read, felt that it would be `right up my alley'...and once again, she was right in her judgment concerning my tastes.  One of the quotes on the back cover (from The New Yorker) puts this novel `...in the league of Melville or Conrad' - while I'm not sure I would go quite that far,  Høeg is a fine writer, and his talents for keeping the reader in suspense as he spins this tale are pretty impressive.<br />The central character, Smilla, is of mixed Greenlandic and Danish parentage - and the conflicts between those two cultures, one colonial, one native, are alive within her constantly.  The dialectic that exists between these two forces - which has so often transformed and rent the fabric of human society - tears at her life.  She is a strong-willed, intelligent woman who is not really sure what she wants or expects from life - she trusts her instincts, but not necessarily her heart.  When she comes upon the body of her six-year-old neighbor Isaiah crumpled in the snow outside their apartment building, dead from a fall from the roof, she is immediately suspicious - and when the police almost instantly rule the death an accident, Smilla's initial doubts increase.  They continue to do so almost exponentially as she begins to look into the case - and her investigation leads her into one dangerous situation after another.<br />The author balances the emotional with the sociological and the scientific elements nicely in this story - there are plenty of references to Smilla's inability to trust, and to love (and the reasons that lurk behind), background on the treatment of the Inuit people by the Danes (both in Greenland and in Denmark), and plenty of science as well.  The author has done his homework.  In the note about the author, it's mentioned that before turning to writing, he worked as a professional dancer, an actor, a sailor, a fencer and a mountaineer - and it's pretty evident that he pursued these activities with attention and zeal.  You can see elements from several of them within this work.<br />The writing is intelligent, and flows very nicely - and Høeg is masterful in giving away just what he wants to give away as the story progresses.  Fans of the literary thriller should give this novel a good, long look.actor, a sailor, a fencer and a mountaineer - and it's pretty evident that he pursued these activities with attention and zeal.  You can see elements from several of them within this work.<br />The writing is intelligent, and flows very nicely - and Høeg is masterful in giving away just what he wants to give away as the story progresses.  Fans of the literary thriller should give this novel a good, long look.	2004-01-12
US	47392054	R2MFX9R3509XJS	0375414746	226199242	The Clearing	Books	5	3	4	N	N	GAUTREAUX REALLY WAS LISTENING...	...when he sat around those old fellows talking about the horrors they witnessed and experienced first-hand in World War I.  He expresses his thanks to them - and to several others, including his father - on his acknowledgements page at the first of this, his second novel.  It's obvious that he listened not only with his ears and his mind, but with his heart and his spirit - for he has taken what he learned from them and written an incredibly moving novel that conveys not only the historical facts surrounding the lives of those who passed through those times, but the indelible marks left on their souls as well.  As in the case of those who fight in any war - or those who are traumatized in some other way - those lives are forever marked and changed.  There is no going back to make things easier or different - there can only be a grappling with the past in order to make sense of it, to make it fit somehow within the context of the life lived since those events occurred.<br />There is also - as is the case with just about everything I've read by Gautreaux - a strong sense of family that pervades this story.  There are ties that exist between family members that friendship, no matter how deep and enduring, can never equal - even in the case of estrangement, as in the story he tells here.  The is great love along with desperation to be seen in the efforts of Randolph Aldridge and his father to find and bring back into the family fold Randolph's wandering brother Byron, damaged beyond imagining by his experiences in France during the war.  Randolph finds Byron working as a constable in a rough, almost completely uncivilized lumbering operation deep in the Louisiana woods, then goes there after his family buys the mill to manage it and gently but firmly draw Byron back from the dark brink on which he has been living.<br />There's a lot of violence in this novel - but the setting is a violent one, and there's no getting around that aspect of the story.  Rather than glorify it, Gautreaux wisely chooses to present it vividly as the dark force it is - and he pits his characters' basic goodness and strengths against it in an attempt to turn its ugly tide.  In doing so, he shows us that sometimes violence is necessary to combat violence - a hard lesson, but one that should be considered by everyone.  The anguish experienced by his characters - in particular, Randolph - in dealing with this force is portrayed in a very moving, believable manner, a tribute to Gautreaux's talent and style.<br />When I wrote my review of his first novel, THE NEXT STEP IN THE DANCE, I mentioned that between it and his short fiction, I preferred his stories.  With the publication of THE CLEARING, I can say that - at least for me - Gautreaux has taken a big step forward.  The story - as well as the characters - in this second full-length work is deeper and more well-developed than in the first.  He's an extremely talented writer - he deserves wider attention.it, Gautreaux wisely chooses to present it vividly as the dark force it is - and he pits his characters' basic goodness and strengths against it in an attempt to turn its ugly tide.  In doing so, he shows us that sometimes violence is necessary to combat violence - a hard lesson, but one that should be considered by everyone.  The anguish experienced by his characters - in particular, Randolph - in dealing with this force is portrayed in a very moving, believable manner, a tribute to Gautreaux's talent and style.<br />When I wrote my review of his first novel, THE NEXT STEP IN THE DANCE, I mentioned that between it and his short fiction, I preferred his stories.  With the publication of THE CLEARING, I can say that - at least for me - Gautreaux has taken a big step forward.  The story - as well as the characters - in this second full-length work is deeper and more well-developed than in the first.  He's an extremely talented writer - he deserves wider attention.	2003-12-30
US	47392054	R2F8HF7EQ6I8Z6	0786868589	607919984	Theater of the Stars: A Novel of Physics and Memory	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MORE MIRACLES FROM NICOLE KELBY�	After reading Nicole Kelby's first novel, the brilliant and moving IN THE COMPANY OF ANGELS, I naturally worried that her next work would fall short of the high mark her debut attained.  I needn't have been concerned.  THEATER OF THE STARS shows without a doubt that she is a writer of exceptional talent and spirit - and that she has stories to convey that will leave an imprint on the soul of the reader long after the last page has been read.<br />The great Russian filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky saw time as continually folding back upon itself, doubling itself at every instant, with the past continually co-existing with the present.  I got a sense of that while reading this novel:  the focus jumps from chapter to chapter between the present and the past, but it does so effortlessly and fluidly, never leaving me with the feeling that I was being jerked around.  Kelby's gentle but thorough style, and her incredible sense of feeding information to the reader at just the right pace are responsible of this, I believe.<br />The story concerns a journey of memory and spirit undertaken by several characters, centering on two women, a mother and daughter.  Both of them are physicists - and both of them have dizzying gaps in their memories of their pasts.  When they set about to fill these gaps, and to reconcile the emptiness and pain they feel, a labyrinth of paths and lives appears - it is the unraveling of this labyrinth that draws the reader through the journey undertaken by these characters, and there are many wonderful discoveries to be made about them and ourselves along the way.  There is quite a bit of science at play in the book - but not so much that a layman can't both appreciate and enjoy the ride.  The book is in many respects a mystery - there are secrets to be uncovered and explained, ties to be established and reconciled, and life-changing lessons to be learned.  It all comes together beautifully - and it has a lot to teach us about how all of the lives on this planet are tied together, and how we view those with whom we share it.  There are lessons here about love and family and spirit and prejudice - lessons we could all stand to review again and again.<br />There is also - as in Kelby's previous novel - an undercurrent of spirituality that flows like a secret but powerful river, carrying along the characters as well as the reader.  It never attempts to `preach' or advocate any particular belief system or creed - it's simple there, and it's presence is undeniable and comforting.  My advice is to let yourself be borne by it where it will take you - it's a rewarding journey.  I can't wait to see where she takes us next - this is a writer whose work I know I'll be seeking out for a long, long time to come.anet are tied together, and how we view those with whom we share it.  There are lessons here about love and family and spirit and prejudice - lessons we could all stand to review again and again.<br />There is also - as in Kelby's previous novel - an undercurrent of spirituality that flows like a secret but powerful river, carrying along the characters as well as the reader.  It never attempts to `preach' or advocate any particular belief system or creed - it's simple there, and it's presence is undeniable and comforting.  My advice is to let yourself be borne by it where it will take you - it's a rewarding journey.  I can't wait to see where she takes us next - this is a writer whose work I know I'll be seeking out for a long, long time to come.	2003-12-29
US	47392054	R1OO71DAC3U7XF	0688167411	660551460	Hell at the Breech: A Novel	Books	3	16	20	N	N	THE EVIL THAT MEN DO...	...sometimes in the name of 'justice'.  Tom Franklin's first novel is set in 1897-98 rural Alabama, and is based on historical events surrounding a gang that called itself Hell at the Breech.  Formed ostensibly to avenge the murder of the brother of its founder, the gang's activities quickly spread beyond the boundaries of justice and revenge, and into more and more violence - committed for the sake of greed, and, sometimes, for its own sake.<br />The strengths that drive this work are Franklin's character building, as well as his incredible talent for placing the reader right smack-dab in the middle of the setting.  None of the folks of populate this novel are clearly, completely good or bad - all of the good ones have their 'warts', and all (well, at least some...) of the bad ones have at least one redeeming characteristic.  Many of the men who fight on the side of the gang are doing so out of what they see as honorable reasons - and many others are forced into supporting them on threat of death.  It's a timeless story of the evil that can be done in the name of justice - one that can shed a lot of light on many of the events of our own time.  It should be widely read for that reason alone.<br />Franklin is an amazingly talented writer - his short story collection POACHERS is witness to this fact.  I think I could have easily enjoyed this novel much more if it weren't for the fact that he seems to be preoccupied - perhaps fascinated is more correct - with the almost unbearably gruesome details in the story.  Telling a tale such as this is naturally going to involve a lot of violence - the men on both sides of the fight lived and breathed it every day - but there were too many instances in the book that seemed to dwell overly long on what amounted to literary 'close-ups'.  American television seems to have 'caught up' with popular film trends in the last few years - shows like 'CSI' and its offshoot, 'CSI - Miami' are replete with cringe-inducing close-ups showing bullets and knives slicing into human flesh.  Franklin is a better writer than this - he shouldn't feel the need to cram this sort of thing into an otherwise stunning debut.g bullets and knives slicing into human flesh.  Franklin is a better writer than this - he shouldn't feel the need to cram this sort of thing into an otherwise stunning debut.	2003-12-15
US	47392054	R2FBHJBF5FB4DX	0763620920	744449860	What the Birds See	Books	5	6	7	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY WRITTEN, PERFECTLY VOICED...	...either of which would be a great achievement, writing as the author does centered on the point-of-view of a nine-year-old boy in a lot of emotional pain.  Adrian has been dumped more than once in his life - taken from his mother by the State when it is determined that she is unable to care for him, then later by his father who feels his `freedom' threatened by the presence of a child in his life.  He lives with his grandmother Beattie and his uncle Rory - they have issues of their own, as does apparently everyone in his family.  Beattie has lost her husband to cancer, and repeatedly muses in near-depressive resignation about being the mother of three adult children who cannot really be adults in the world.  Rory is an emotional cripple as a result of a car accident that made a vegetable of his best friend, a direct result of rebellion against the upbringing Rory was given by his parents - he has become agoraphobic, never leaving the house.  Sookie, Adrian's mother, is completely out of the picture (as is his dad) - no one has any idea of her whereabouts.  Marta, Beatie's other daughter (who changed her name from Maggie when she decided it wasn't glamorous enough), is so cold and self-centered that when she comes to visit she sows nothing but conflict.<br />Into this atmosphere comes Adrian - actually a pretty normal nine-year-old, despite his view of himself.  He's teetering on the brink of adolescence, and he's dealing emotionally with a pretty heavy case of abandonment anxiety - and this colors every aspect of his life.  He is already developing numerous fears and phobias at his young age - he's afraid of shopping centers, quicksand, self-combustion;  but mainly he begins to worry that he's about to be cast out again.  Topping all of this off - and stirring the emotional pot mightily - is the case of three children who live nearby who seem to have simply vanished while walking a few blocks for ice cream.  The children's parents appear on the telly, naturally distraught and tearful, begging of their return.  The only clue seems to be a sketchy description of a `thin man' who was seen near the children just before they vanished - they city is in a panic, led by the fears of parents afraid their kids will be next.  An unknown enemy is always the most frightful one.<br />Adrian is a great example of how children become abused and damaged in ways that are not as `direct' as people imagine when they hear the term `abused child'.  While there is love and kindness in his life, the loneliness that he feels, and the fears of being abandoned by the shattered family that is left to him, are all too real.  He is made to feel like a burden, someone to be traded off like a pet dog when it becomes too much trouble to deal with him.<br />Adrian hasn't many friends - his closest friend Clinton is only a superficial one.  When a new family moves in across the street with three children, he feels himself drawn to them.  He befriends Nicole, the oldest of the three - there are sparks within each of their personalities that draw the other.  Nicole's mother is evidently dying - or at least seriously ill enough never to leave the house - and she is subconsciously very angry at her mom about this situation.  She and Adrian hatch a plan to gain the attention of their families - and the admiration of the general populace - she thinks she knows where to find the missing children.<br />Another character that is portrayed vividly in this novel is a child named Sandra - most of the kids in school know her as Horsegirl.  Sandra is a mysterious child with obvious emotional problems who has been placed in a school with neighborhood kids - she is both feared and ridiculed by her classmates, again depicting the fear with which we regard things we do not understand.  Horsegirl is taller than the rest of her class, and loves to prance around like a horse, whinnying and neighing and snorting and stamping her feet.  She carries a leather bridle and bit, sometimes running on the playground with the bit in her mouth - probably the only time she gets to feel a bit of freedom and happiness.  When a substitute teacher comes to fill in while the children's regular instructor goes on her honeymoon, she is evidently not made aware of how `special' Sandra is - or how much liberty she has been granted in the classroom.  A confrontation ensues, and Horsegirl lashes the substitute across the face with her bridle - the class is shocked and electrified, realizing deep inside that a line has been crossed.<br />All of Hartnett's characters - the adults and children alike - are wonderfully drawn, and the emotions that run so deeply through her story are honestly, delicately and believably portrayed.  There are no punches pulled here - and that makes for a pretty rocky ride emotionally for the reader, but it's a ride that's more than worth it.<br />Hartnett has a fine reputation as an author of novels for young adults - and I suppose that's why this novel is grouped there.  I've seen notes that say `ages 9 and up' regarding it - but I think it's a bit strong for younger readers.  Moreover, I think it does the novel a bit of a disservice - this is a well-written work that can and should be enjoyed by a wider range of readers.  Pitching it into the `young adult' bin is going to cause adult readers to skip over it - and that would be a shame. I feel fortunate that I came across it in the library with no indication of `reading level' attached to it - I would have missed out on something very memorable and rewarding.es running on the playground with the bit in her mouth - probably the only time she gets to feel a bit of freedom and happiness.  When a substitute teacher comes to fill in while the children's regular instructor goes on her honeymoon, she is evidently not made aware of how `special' Sandra is - or how much liberty she has been granted in the classroom.  A confrontation ensues, and Horsegirl lashes the substitute across the face with her bridle - the class is shocked and electrified, realizing deep inside that a line has been crossed.<br />All of Hartnett's characters - the adults and children alike - are wonderfully drawn, and the emotions that run so deeply through her story are honestly, delicately and believably portrayed.  There are no punches pulled here - and that makes for a pretty rocky ride emotionally for the reader, but it's a ride that's more than worth it.<br />Hartnett has a fine reputation as an author of novels for young adults - and I suppose that's why this novel is grouped there.  I've seen notes that say `ages 9 and up' regarding it - but I think it's a bit strong for younger readers.  Moreover, I think it does the novel a bit of a disservice - this is a well-written work that can and should be enjoyed by a wider range of readers.  Pitching it into the `young adult' bin is going to cause adult readers to skip over it - and that would be a shame. I feel fortunate that I came across it in the library with no indication of `reading level' attached to it - I would have missed out on something very memorable and rewarding.	2003-12-08
US	47392054	R39YF8DB6X4LNH	0349102031	355910245	New Primal Scream (Abacus Books)	Books	5	61	62	N	N	WHAT MAKES US SICK?  WHAT CAN MAKE US WELL?	What an amazing book this is!  Janov's theories seemed radical when he first espoused them, in the early 1970s - many people in the fields of psychological and physiological medicine scoffed at them then, and many still scoff at them today. This has historically been the reaction to new schools of thought, to anyone who dares to think `outside the box'. Here, Janov writes of his theories, lays out the research he has conducted that bears them out, and speaks of the things he has learned in the twenty years that ensued between launching his therapy and the book's publication. The language he uses is sometimes a bit difficult for a layman to comprehend in one reading, but I found it to be more than worth the extra effort.  As I read this book, Janov's theories appealed to me first at a `gut' level - as I progressed through it, what I was reading began to soak in, and to appeal to me on a deeper level.<br />Janov's premise is that the neuroses that plague all of us to one degree or another are primarily caused by the repression of primal pain by our minds and bodies - and he logically aims to tackle the causes of our pain, instead of simply attempting to treat the symptoms.  Our bodies are made up of a complex network of systems - psychological and physiological.  Rather than working as entirely separate entities, Janov shows how they interact and intertwine.  What he refers to as primal pain - those traumas that impact our systems at the very deepest levels - alters not only our emotional outlook, but the physical systems of our bodies as well.  His research shows that traumas that have been thought for years to affect us only psychologically also affect our immune systems, hormonal balance, and other physiological systems.  These traumas, which are too much for us to bear at the time they occur, are attacked by our bodies' systems of repression - and the effect is imprinted on our lives in a way that, if not dealt with and released, will cause all sorts of mental, emotional and physical problems.  Events which occur in our adult lives can trigger repressed memories of earlier traumas, causing the repression system to spring into action again - even though at this point in our lives there are healthier methods for our systems to utilize.<br /><br />The repression system is a vital component of our survival mechanism - without it, the traumas we experience not only in early childhood, but also during the months in the womb, would be too much for us to bear.  The problem is that as we grow older, and become more able to deal with these various traumas, the repression system continues to treat us as children, protecting us from feelings that we would be healthier accessing, processing and releasing.  It is the continued repression of deep, primal feelings that makes us sick in many ways: emotional problems, high blood pressure, respiratory problems, colitis, even cancer;  he also sheds light on the nature of addiction.<br /><br />Primal therapy involves helping the patient to discover the traumas that are the root causes of this repression, then to access and FEEL these traumas at the deepest level. In this, Janov intends that the patient actually RE-LIVE the trauma involved - unimaginable pains, from a difficult birth process to cold, unloving parents, to unspeakably damaging experiences such as sexual abuse and incest - and react to them and thus release them from the repression system, freeing vital parts of the mind to address the needs of the patient as they exist in the present.  Even the process of deep, child-like crying can not only release repressed feelings, but also trigger reversals in hormone balances and immune system dysfunction that are so vital to total health.  Patients who have successfully completed the therapy have been found to not only improve on emotional levels, but to feel better physically as well - physiological ailments that have plagued them for years, apparently untreatable by more traditional methods, have lessened or disappeared completely.<br />If this sounds too good to be true, try to keep an open mind.  Janov cites numerous examples from case histories, and years of research to back up his claims.  The therapy is not for everyone - he states this in no uncertain terms at several points in the book.  Think about it - how likely is it that someone who discovers that their emotional and physiological problems have their roots in sexual abuse that occurred beyond the reach of their conscious memory would want to go back to that horrible time and actually RE-LIVE what they experienced?  It's not something that sounds very appealing.  Janov says that we have to hurt in order to heal - and anyone going into this therapy has to be completely aware of that aspect of it.  He also warns, sternly, that there are many practitioners out there in the world who have read his works, even studied with him for a brief time, and have gone on to practice their own version of the therapy - with disastrous results.  He cautions against what he terms as `the worst forms of charlatanism' which have sprung from those who have only a partial understanding of his methods, and attempt to put them into practice too soon, either for motives of self-profit or impatient eagerness to `save the world'.  Damage can be done to the patient if the therapy is dispensed by those who have not been properly trained.<br />The book is nothing less than a revelation.  Janov's methods might not be the path for everyone - but his theories are sound, and can be more universally applied than the therapy itself.  Just reading this book can open the mind to the possibilities - understanding what makes us sick can help us find the road to wellness.  All of us hurt to one degree or another - and this book can be a valuable key to unlock the door to healing.e lessened or disappeared completely.<br />If this sounds too good to be true, try to keep an open mind.  Janov cites numerous examples from case histories, and years of research to back up his claims.  The therapy is not for everyone - he states this in no uncertain terms at several points in the book.  Think about it - how likely is it that someone who discovers that their emotional and physiological problems have their roots in sexual abuse that occurred beyond the reach of their conscious memory would want to go back to that horrible time and actually RE-LIVE what they experienced?  It's not something that sounds very appealing.  Janov says that we have to hurt in order to heal - and anyone going into this therapy has to be completely aware of that aspect of it.  He also warns, sternly, that there are many practitioners out there in the world who have read his works, even studied with him for a brief time, and have gone on to practice their own version of the therapy - with disastrous results.  He cautions against what he terms as `the worst forms of charlatanism' which have sprung from those who have only a partial understanding of his methods, and attempt to put them into practice too soon, either for motives of self-profit or impatient eagerness to `save the world'.  Damage can be done to the patient if the therapy is dispensed by those who have not been properly trained.<br />The book is nothing less than a revelation.  Janov's methods might not be the path for everyone - but his theories are sound, and can be more universally applied than the therapy itself.  Just reading this book can open the mind to the possibilities - understanding what makes us sick can help us find the road to wellness.  All of us hurt to one degree or another - and this book can be a valuable key to unlock the door to healing.	2003-12-05
US	47392054	R2XIWNXGYEH5UB	0292776241	55224768	Sculpting in Time: Tarkovsky The Great Russian Filmaker Discusses His Art	Books	5	30	30	N	N	THE NATURE AND PURPOSE OF ART -- IN CINEMA AND ELSEWHERE...	If that sounds like a heavy load...in the hands of some, it could well be just that.  Here, it's a different - and refreshing - story.  In this book, the great Russian film director looks back at his life's work - but not in the standard `this is how I did this' format.  Rather, he approaches his cinematic creations from the aspect of his views on life as a whole:  Where does mankind stand today, in respect to the past?  In what direction should we turn - not just for answers, but also for the very questions themselves?  What is the definition of art - and how does `artistic' cinema differ from `entertainment'?  The discussion he undertakes here will open your mind and soul, as well as your eyes.<br />Over the course of this book's nearly-250 pages, Tarkovsky addresses these questions and many others - and at the same time, gives the reader invaluable insights into the thoughts that inspired his amazing films.  The work progresses roughly in a straightforward time-line - unlike some of his films - and lays out the director's beliefs as well as his methods, but not in a cold step-by-step way.  Instead, I came away from this book feeling that I understood Tarkovsky as a human being much more than I did before - and, as a result, I now feel like I know him better as an artist as well.<br />Without employing standard plotlines, characterizations, overdone (and overused) special effects, or any other low-ball devices so prevalent in film, Tarkovsky's works reach into the very soul of the viewers and touch them on the very deepest level.  Far from being cold and emotionless and surreal, his works are some of the most moving I've ever experienced - and, true to his vision, they do so by actually being ULTRA-real, evoking the feelings that we carry around at our core.  Words cannot really convey the power of his works - they have to be experienced.  I recently came across a reference to Tarkovsky's work in the booklet of a cd of contemporary classical music - the note-writer likened his films to a `cold landscape, devoid of human life'...!  I couldn't believe it - and I had to wonder what 5 minutes of which of Tarkovsky's films the writer had actually seen!!  This was one of the most ludicrous references I've ever read.<br />There is a spiritual quality and undercurrent to Tarkovsky's films that runs very, very deep - and is extremely moving.  This spirituality never comes across as `preaching' or `sermonizing' - it's simply there, as a foundation for his outlook and philosophy of life.  He draws from numerous schools of thought, combining his influences into one of the most gently - and truthfully - humanist outlooks I've ever seen expressed.<br />The book is a revelation - and I know it will bear repeated readings.  I've seen all of his films - but after reading his thoughts so eloquently expressed here, I know that they'll affect me even more deeply now.r likened his films to a `cold landscape, devoid of human life'...!  I couldn't believe it - and I had to wonder what 5 minutes of which of Tarkovsky's films the writer had actually seen!!  This was one of the most ludicrous references I've ever read.<br />There is a spiritual quality and undercurrent to Tarkovsky's films that runs very, very deep - and is extremely moving.  This spirituality never comes across as `preaching' or `sermonizing' - it's simply there, as a foundation for his outlook and philosophy of life.  He draws from numerous schools of thought, combining his influences into one of the most gently - and truthfully - humanist outlooks I've ever seen expressed.<br />The book is a revelation - and I know it will bear repeated readings.  I've seen all of his films - but after reading his thoughts so eloquently expressed here, I know that they'll affect me even more deeply now.	2003-12-04
US	47392054	R2VIAAUMP79ZVK	0824014251	462652600	Davy	Books	5	34	34	N	N	40 YEARS ON...	I first read this remarkable novel when I was 14 - about the age Davy was at the start of the book.  It was 1964, and I was heavily into science fiction - it offered a loner full of teenage angst an escape from the everyday world.  I made some amazing literary discoveries - most of them accidental, but some of the works I flipped over back then still ring true today.  DAVY is one of those works.<br />The story is classified as science fiction mainly, I suppose, by virtue of the fact that it takes place in the future, after a brief (but devastating) nuclear war - a theme touched on by a great many works of the Cold War era.  Beyond that, it could easily fit into the broader genre of literary fiction - it's well-written and imaginative enough to appeal to a wider spectrum of readers.  The sci-fi label is enough to put some people off, and that's a shame - there's a lot of great literature that's filed there, and a lot of folks are missing out as a result.<br />Pangborn fashioned a very believable world in which Davy and his friends (and foes) could dwell - and he peopled it with characters that are easy to accept as well.  Science and learning have fallen by the wayside in this setting - the once-mighty USA has crumbled into a number of smaller nations and city-states, most of them operating under what they term as democracy.  They're a far cry from it.  The Holy Murcan Church is very powerful, and exerts a lot of control over both sacred and secular matters - the governments, such as they are, bow to its will generally without much grumbling.  Books have been banned as evil, leading as they did to sin and destruction in the Old Times (pre-war).  The Days of Confusion followed, during which the Church arose from the ashes with the rest of the survivors, and consolidated its power.<br />Davy is a bondservant - born to a prostitute and left in a Church-run orphanage to grow up, he runs away from his job at an inn after losing his childhood (or finding his manhood, take your pick) with the innkeeper's daughter.  The book recounts a number of his adventures - he travels alone in the wilderness for a while, falls in with a small group of other outcasts, joins up with Rumly's Ramblers (a sort of post-apocalyptic American version of gypsies) for a bit, journeys to Old City in Nuin where he meets the love of his life, falls into a place in the government with her (her uncle is a progressive regent), fights in an uprising, and goes into exile.  He writes his story from that vantage point, looking back over a period of twenty years or so.<br />Along the way, Pangborn manages very deftly to make quite a few astute comments about the state of things in the world as it exists today, by way of `looking back' at them from Davy's perspective.  He does so with a serious eye, but also with a large dose of humor - he's not afraid in the least of poking the world in the gut and then giving it a good Dutch rub on the head as it bends over, something it could mightily use now and again.<br />A lot of the place names that are used can be easily linked to current ones - `Murcan' is probably meant to be a bastardization of `American',  `Nuin' is `New England',  `Moha' relates to `Mohawk', &amp;c.  Others, like `Conicut', `Vairmant' and `Penn' are more obvious.  It's also hilarious the way history has been twisted over the time of the Days of Confusion - with no books to keep it alive, many, many events are tied up together and confused, and these confusions themselves make for very wry and astute observations by both the author and his rough but lovable narrator.<br />It's a shame this book is out of print - it's one that should be made available again, a classic not only of the sci-fi genre, but of 60s literature.  It should be on the shelf right alongside Walter M. Miller, Jr.'s astonishing A CANTICLE FOR LIEBOWITZ.  DAVY is a dark vision of a `possible future' - one that we could all stand to learn a bit from in order to prevent it.your pick) with the innkeeper's daughter.  The book recounts a number of his adventures - he travels alone in the wilderness for a while, falls in with a small group of other outcasts, joins up with Rumly's Ramblers (a sort of post-apocalyptic American version of gypsies) for a bit, journeys to Old City in Nuin where he meets the love of his life, falls into a place in the government with her (her uncle is a progressive regent), fights in an uprising, and goes into exile.  He writes his story from that vantage point, looking back over a period of twenty years or so.<br />Along the way, Pangborn manages very deftly to make quite a few astute comments about the state of things in the world as it exists today, by way of `looking back' at them from Davy's perspective.  He does so with a serious eye, but also with a large dose of humor - he's not afraid in the least of poking the world in the gut and then giving it a good Dutch rub on the head as it bends over, something it could mightily use now and again.<br />A lot of the place names that are used can be easily linked to current ones - `Murcan' is probably meant to be a bastardization of `American',  `Nuin' is `New England',  `Moha' relates to `Mohawk', &amp;c.  Others, like `Conicut', `Vairmant' and `Penn' are more obvious.  It's also hilarious the way history has been twisted over the time of the Days of Confusion - with no books to keep it alive, many, many events are tied up together and confused, and these confusions themselves make for very wry and astute observations by both the author and his rough but lovable narrator.<br />It's a shame this book is out of print - it's one that should be made available again, a classic not only of the sci-fi genre, but of 60s literature.  It should be on the shelf right alongside Walter M. Miller, Jr.'s astonishing A CANTICLE FOR LIEBOWITZ.  DAVY is a dark vision of a `possible future' - one that we could all stand to learn a bit from in order to prevent it.	2003-11-17
US	47392054	R1FMZUKX8KQ3GN	0743242203	304993804	The Boy on the Bus: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A STUDY IN FAMILY DYNAMICS	Deborah Schupack's debut novel is a ride that brings with it a sense of unease - rather like some of the best of the old TWILIGHT ZONE episodes, the ones that didn't involve a monster or a serial killer or an alien invasion, the ones that focused on an aspect of the everyday that was just out of sync enough to make the viewer uncomfortable.  The novel is set in a small town in rural Vermont, and centered on a relatively normal family going through pretty common growing pains.  Meg and Jeff - who chose not to get married - have two children:  13 year-old Katie and 8 year-old Charlie.  Katie has earnestly embraced the expected rebellion of her early teens, and is making life miserable for her little brother as well as just about any adult who comes around her.  Charlie is asthmatic - and it is his fragility (at least as perceived by his mother) that is at the center of the whirlpool.  Over the last couple of years, Jeff has seemingly sought out architectural jobs that take him further from home, for longer periods of time.  He and Meg are drifting apart, and neither one is quite sure how to deal with it - if they recognize it at all.  Meg, for her part, is far too busy worrying constantly about Charlie - so much so that she has memory lapses.  She can't remember events from a couple of days before - some older memories that should be cemented into place in the family foundation are even hard for her to grasp.<br />One day the school bus arrives, as usual, to return Charlie home - but the boy doesn't get off.  Meg waits for a bit - she's even unsure, when thinking about it later, for how long - then goes out to the bus, asking the driver what's going on.  `See for yourself,' is his cryptic reply.  She enters the bus and peers down the aisle to where her son sits - and sees a boy that looks quite a bit like Charlie, but not quite, at least to her eyes and mind.  When Meg finally coaxes the boy off the bus and into the house, she realizes that the process has taken much longer than she imagined - a crowd has gathered.  As she observes the boy more and more over the next few hours, then days, she becomes more and more detached from reality, trying to prove to herself - and to the rest of her family - that the boy is, or is not, Charlie.  Busybody neighbors, the local sheriff, a the boy's pediatrician, his father and sister all become involved in solving the `mystery' of Charlie - but none of them is as convinced as Meg that this is not her son.  Charlie's reaction to what is going on around him comes into play as well, of course.  There's a particularly revealing conversation between mother and son - although it seems off the cuff at the time - about the various defenses that the body and mind can call on in times of threat.<br />The author does a nice job of moving the story along, as well as making the characters down-to-earth enough to be believable - and she handles the stress/detachment/disassociation aspects of the story with intelligence and empathy, making the novel not only entertaining on one level, but eye-opening on others.  She's a talented writer, and she's done her homework well - this is a very rewarding novel as a result.longer than she imagined - a crowd has gathered.  As she observes the boy more and more over the next few hours, then days, she becomes more and more detached from reality, trying to prove to herself - and to the rest of her family - that the boy is, or is not, Charlie.  Busybody neighbors, the local sheriff, a the boy's pediatrician, his father and sister all become involved in solving the `mystery' of Charlie - but none of them is as convinced as Meg that this is not her son.  Charlie's reaction to what is going on around him comes into play as well, of course.  There's a particularly revealing conversation between mother and son - although it seems off the cuff at the time - about the various defenses that the body and mind can call on in times of threat.  <br />The author does a nice job of moving the story along, as well as making the characters down-to-earth enough to be believable - and she handles the stress/detachment/disassociation aspects of the story with intelligence and empathy, making the novel not only entertaining on one level, but eye-opening on others.  She's a talented writer, and she's done her homework well - this is a very rewarding novel as a result.	2003-10-01
US	47392054	R3I282WTAUB3SZ	1565123697	560371317	Judge	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE PRESENCE OF AN ABSENCE	It's a fact that the absence of something - or in this case, someone - that has loomed very large in the lives of people can be felt as a presence.  In Dwight Allen's debut novel, that presence/absence is the title character, Judge William Dupree.  As the book opens, his clerk of twenty years, Lucy, is gathering together a few of his personal effects that she has found in the office.  Through her thoughts - and those of the Judge's widow, his two sons, his cousin Louis and several friends and members of his extended family - we come to know, understand and appreciate this man.  The journey to this understanding is a comfortable one, filled with remembrances and anecdotes, humor and, most of all, an overpowering sense of the importance of love in the life of a human being.  We are ushered through all of this with warmth and grace, thanks to the writing skills of Allen.  I first came across his writing - chapter 5 from this work - in the 2002 edition of NEW STORIES FROM THE SOUTH: THE YEAR'S BEST, accompanied by a note that the piece was a chapter from a forthcoming novel.  I was very happy to see it arrive.<br />The Judge's family has its ups and downs - but these are basically decent, everyday people, striving to find some happiness and satisfaction in their lives and careers.  His wife is gently domineering - there are not many who know her who will stand up to her in a dispute.  His sons - grown by the time of his death - wrestle with personal and professional quandaries, guided by the Judge's advice and opinions, but never dictated to.  Lucy, with whom the Judge `almost' slips off the `fidelity wagon', is fiercely devoted to him - so much so that, counter to the advice of others, she remained with him as his caseload declined, well into her own middle age, pretty much closing any doors to any law practice of her own.  His cousin Louis is an alcoholic - and while the Judge had little tolerance for those who drank too much, he was always gentle and caring with his cousin, helping him time and again to attempt to plant his feet on a more sober path.  Judge Dupree is sometimes shocked or disappointed with things that happen around him - but his love for his family and friends is alive at his core through it all.  He is a religious man, but not one who preaches to everyone around him - his is a quiet faith, and strong, and the example of his own life and happiness with it is the most effective witness.<br />The chapters of the novel look at incidents and events in the life of the Judge and those who shared it, told from various points of view, and not necessarily in chronological order.  Rather than make the novel harder to understand, this technique, in Allen's hands, actually lends a feeling of comfort to the story - rather like the stories that pour out of those attending a wake, fond (and often humorous) remembrances of the departed.<br />The Judge himself - in the form of a ghost - makes an appearance now and then, but never in an attempt to overtly affect the lives of his loved ones, more as an observer.  His spectral presence is felt from time to time, but those who sense it are never quite sure that they're not `seeing things'.  One of the most poignant passages in the novel is in one of the final chapters.  The Judge had a life-long love affair with railroading - and after his death, now that he has the opportunity, he takes to riding trains back and forth across the country.  On one of these soir&eacute;es, he inadvertently observes a couple in his boxcar making love - `...the Judge, who had always been a firm believer in the right to privacy, concentrated on the scenery and removed his hearing aid.'  He muses about the physical vs. the spiritual aspects of love:  `...he hadn't found the sexual act itself all that rewarding.  What he had really hoped for more was kissing, nuzzling, hand-holding, things that women (as opposed to men) were supposed to require.'  He examines these thoughts carefully and honestly - and they are a great indicator of what a gentle soul he possessed.  He sees things in the lives of his family and friends that at first upset him, but comes quickly to a love-borne understanding, and finds it easy to forgive.<br />Allen's novel comes in a just over 300 pages - but it seemed to fly by for me.  The pleasure of reading such a well-written work made it so.  Get to know the Judge - your life will be the richer for it.a great indicator of what a gentle soul he possessed.  He sees things in the lives of his family and friends that at first upset him, but comes quickly to a love-borne understanding, and finds it easy to forgive.<br />Allen's novel comes in a just over 300 pages - but it seemed to fly by for me.  The pleasure of reading such a well-written work made it so.  Get to know the Judge - your life will be the richer for it.	2003-09-30
US	47392054	R18Q44IO276CKV	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WHAT MAKES UP A LIFE?	In the case of Nicholson Baker's gentle narrator, Emmett, it's a lot of small things - but things that are wonderfully meaningful to him in their way, and things which add up to happiness and contentment.  It's the same for any of us, actually, if we take the time, as Emmett does, to sit and - effectively - meditate on them.  Emmett is 44, a successful - but not `driven' - editor of medical textbooks.  He lives in what appears to be a small town in New England with his wife Claire, their two children Phoebe and Henry, a cat and a duck.  Emmett is having what might be considered to be a mild midlife crisis - but instead of rushing headlong into some sort of second childhood, pursuing an affair or buying a sports car, he decides to make a simple adjustment in his daily routine.  He resolves to arise before dawn each morning, when everyone else in the household is still asleep, make himself a cup of coffee in the dark and sit in front of a fire in the living room - and he thinks.  The things Emmett considers - and commits to what amounts to a journal - are not gigantic, earth-shaking discoveries...or are they?  His ruminations on the small, mundane things that enter his mind during this early morning ritual are amazingly revelatory - as they accumulate it becomes clear that these small things are indeed the things that make up a life of contentment.  They are important, each and every one, in making his life what it is - and without making any loud pronouncement, as he works his way through the box of matches in the title, morning after morning, Emmett settles into the comfort of realizing that he has hit upon the meaning of life - at least his life.<br />What another reviewer below found `boring' I found absorbing - and this is due in a large way to Baker's prose.  Without being pontifical in the slightest, without trying to impress the reader with his vocabulary, Baker has quietly allowed his narrator's character to take the lead.  With all of Emmett's personality quirks, with both seriousness and a sense of humor, this man's mind and life are opened for us.  He is an unpretentious man who has paused along life's road to ponder the meaning of things - mostly small things, but they build up rather quickly into the structures of a life.<br />I've read a bit about some of Baker's other books - and I think I stumbled upon just the right one for me.  THE EVERLASTING STORY OF NORY looks interesting as well.  A BOX OF MATCHES suited me to a `t' - it's a comfortable, unhurried read that left me smiling and nodding (in agreement, not boredom) - and one that I'll remember for some time to come.<br />Coincidence or design:  there are thirty-three chapters in the book, representing thirty-three mornings with Emmett in front of his fire - and there are thirty-three matches on the cover.  Just an observation, and small one, but...irks, with both seriousness and a sense of humor, this man's mind and life are opened for us.  He is an unpretentious man who has paused along life's road to ponder the meaning of things - mostly small things, but they build up rather quickly into the structures of a life.<br />I've read a bit about some of Baker's other books - and I think I stumbled upon just the right one for me.  THE EVERLASTING STORY OF NORY looks interesting as well.  A BOX OF MATCHES suited me to a `t' - it's a comfortable, unhurried read that left me smiling and nodding (in agreement, not boredom) - and one that I'll remember for some time to come.<br />Coincidence or design:  there are thirty-three chapters in the book, representing thirty-three mornings with Emmett in front of his fire - and there are thirty-three matches on the cover.  Just an observation, and small one, but...	2003-09-22
US	47392054	R2186T14AVK477	1889330833	124256461	Portrait of My Mother, Who Posed Nude in Wartime: Stories	Books	4	6	6	N	N	LOOKING INTO THE HEART OF A FAMILY	One of the tricky aspects of this collection of interrelated short stories is the fact that, told from the point of view of a grown daughter looking backward, the author manages nevertheless to span some 60-70 years of time, exploring the inner thoughts of some of the characters, who most likely never revealed them to the narrator.  The daughter is thus theorizing or guessing about thoughts and events - albeit it an `educated guess' most of the time - about things that not only occurred out of her sight, but in the case of some of these stories, before she was born.  A formidable potential stumbling block aside, Sandor does a nice job stitching everything together - it comes across as real and believable, and at times very moving.<br />There are secrets kept from generation to generation in every family - sometimes they eventually come out, sometimes they remain hidden for eternity.  Most of the time - revealed or not - they color the psychology and temperament of the family in which they exist.  It's interesting to see, as these tales unfold in chronological order, how this happens within the family depicted here.<br />Sandor's prose flows along nicely - in each story, she manages to catch the mood of the times and the people within them.  The characters are all pretty down-to-earth, yet each individual and unique in their own way - and they're all fairly sympathetic, which helps a great deal to draw the reader into the writing.  All in all, a very nice read.	2003-09-18
US	47392054	R3FL7ERXOFA5LJ	0140280189	560602844	The Whereabouts of Eneas McNulty	Books	5	11	11	N	N	AN INNOCENT ABROAD...	...and sure, Mark Twain would likely love the hero of this wonderful book.  Eneas is truly an innocent - he never shies from hard work, he loves his family dearly, and (his gift and his damnation) he has no neither mind nor care at all, at all for the politicks.  He's not really a simpleton, merely a simple man.  Born in 1900, he comes of age with the Irish struggle for independence so vividly painted by events such as the Easter uprising of 1916.  When his mates - especially his best boyhood friend, Jonno Lynch - are enlisting in the fight to throw off the British oppression, Eneas, finding it difficult to locate gainful employment, enlists first in the British Merchant Navy (which in itself might have been forgiven by those who deemed themselves his judges later), then in the Royal Irish Constabulary.  The RIC being mainly a police force, Eneas couldn't see the harm in lending a hand in that quarter - but as the fight for independence grew more fierce and factional, the RIC was tied too closely in the eyes of some to the hated Tans, who were responsible for some right bloody work.  Eneas, finding himself on a blacklist kept by those calling themselves patriots, is given a choice - get close to and kill the much-hated and feared Reprisal Man of the Tans, or suffer the consequences of a death sentence.  Our hero cannot bring himself to kill a man, so he refuses - and when he sees that those who have threatened him with extinction mean just what they say, sees no other choice than to flee his beloved Sligo and his native Ireland altogether.<br />Thus his adventures and travels begin.  He signs on with a merchant vessel and winds up in Galveston, Texas.  He enlists with the British Army for World War II in order to save France (a country for whom he bears a great love, of unknown origins) from Hitler.  After being shell-shocked on the beach at Dunkirk and lodging with a French farmer for a growing and harvesting season, he makes his way back to England, pays a quick visit to Ireland, then winds up in Nigeria, digging a canal for a British company.  He finds the best friend of his life in the person of Harcourt, a Nigerian national he first meets on a boat heading to Ireland, then again in Nigeria.  Harcourt's friendship becomes one of the true treasures of Eneas' life - and a lifelong friendship it is.<br />Barry's language and prose capture his characters, the setting and their story perfectly.  The reader can't help but feel a great empathy for Eneas, and for others in the book as well.  Through the story of one man - and a very believable story it is indeed - Barry lays bare the pain through which Ireland has passed in its journey to find itself.  There's a lot of sadness to be found here - but there's a lot of joy as well, so.<br />Read this book - and read Barry's novel ANNIE DUNNE as well (even better, I think, but that's me...).isit to Ireland, then winds up in Nigeria, digging a canal for a British company.  He finds the best friend of his life in the person of Harcourt, a Nigerian national he first meets on a boat heading to Ireland, then again in Nigeria.  Harcourt's friendship becomes one of the true treasures of Eneas' life - and a lifelong friendship it is.<br />Barry's language and prose capture his characters, the setting and their story perfectly.  The reader can't help but feel a great empathy for Eneas, and for others in the book as well.  Through the story of one man - and a very believable story it is indeed - Barry lays bare the pain through which Ireland has passed in its journey to find itself.  There's a lot of sadness to be found here - but there's a lot of joy as well, so.<br />Read this book - and read Barry's novel ANNIE DUNNE as well (even better, I think, but that's me...).	2003-09-04
US	47392054	R1X8DDBLTKBVSZ	0679744029	210998112	By the Lake	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A NECESSARILY UNHURRIED STORY	I found this novel by John McGahern to be much more satisfying than his collected short stories, which I also read recently - and I can see two reasons for that.  Finding no fault at all with his writing - he's amazingly talented - I felt that the characters depicted here were much better developed and fuller, all-around, than the ones in his stories.  The `space' of the novel also allowed the author to take his time and delve into the story at it's own pace, rather than his own.  The result is a beautiful book that quite literally picks the reader up and places him/her into the setting (rural Ireland, relatively modern, with the time never specified) and amongst a group of most wonderful characters.  The novel is peopled with much more likeable - and acceptable - characters than the stories.  Even the scalliwags herein are not without their redeeming qualities.<br />Rather than setting out to tell a story about a specific event or person, McGahern has chosen instead to allow the reader access to the daily lives of his characters, following them gently over the course of a year.  We see them deal with their farms, their jobs, their personal relationships, with the changing times, and with life and death.  This book enveloped me so entirely and so comfortably that I was very sorry to see it end - all the while knowing that it couldn't go on forever (rather like life itself).<br />This is a very enjoyable, worthwhile read - I can give it my highest recommendation.	2003-08-31
US	47392054	R30LEI5F9925FR	1878448935	46581154	Mary McGreevy (Macmurray & Beck Fiction)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	ENTERTAINING -- ALTERNATELY HUMOROUS AND POIGNANT	Let me state first of all that this novel was a good read - I wouldn't put it in the same class as some other Irish writers I admire (such as William Trevor and Sebastian Barry), but Keady seems to have a knack for a good, interesting story, peopled with an array of (mostly) likeable, idiosyncratic characters.  The questions that naturally arise from the storyline - a nun leaving her convent and giving up her vows to take over the farm left to her by her recently-deceased father, then intentionally getting pregnant out of wedlock, with no intention of getting married - are important and valid ones.  Set in 1950, in rural Ireland, one doesn't have to imagine very far to understand that the Church frowned mightily at such goings-on - and even within the Church itself, the reactions to Mary McGreevy's 'scandalous' behavior vary a great deal.  Some of the Clergy are sympathetic and understanding - some are livid and vindictive.<br />The character of Mary herself is an admirable one - many years ahead of her time, so to speak.  She's a strong-willed, intelligent woman, bound and determined to do everything her own way.  She's also possessed of a kind heart - and those of her neighbors who can see past her non-traditional path to motherhood recognize her as a good person, and do their best to be her friend.  Again, given the time and place, that's not always easy to do.<br />Keady draws the characters well, but after a while, their 'Irishness' seems to be laid on a little thick - and the story, as heartwarming and thought-provoking as it is, tends to run in a rut as predictable as you might find in a rural Irish lane. Maybe I just 'got lucky', but I saw the revelation at the end coming a mile away.  These are admittedly relatively minor complaints - and they certainly won't keep me from recommending this novel.  Try it - I'll wager you'll find yourself smiling a good bit of the while...	2003-08-24
US	47392054	R32WXVBTTHK1AJ	1929490208	440534062	A Broken Thing	Books	5	6	6	N	N	POWERFUL & COMPELLING -- PROMISES KEPT...	...those promises to which the quality of Marlin Barton's previously-published short fiction (see his short story collection THE DRY WELL) alluded.  All of them have been kept, and beautifully, in this, his first novel.  A BROKEN THING is the story - stories, actually - of an extended family, the joys and sorrows, pleasures and pains the various members enjoy, endure and inflict upon each other and themselves.  What makes it so compelling - and I dare you to turn away from it once you begin - is that, as others have noted elsewhere, one of these people (or ALL of them) could be us.  There is an 'everyman' quality to each of the characters so vividly drawn here - and yet at the same time they are each resoundingly individual, painfully and delightfully human.  These could be the people next door or down the hall - or across the dinner table.<br />Barton's vision and experiences of growing up and living in the American South resonate clearly, long after the book is read and put away.  The life passages down which these characters walk, the dreams they dare to dream (and ache to let go), the ties that bind them and wedge them apart, the loves that make and break them, are made as real by the author's prose as anyone you can reach out and touch.  None of them are perfect souls - they never come across as the false inventions of a writer attempting to please everyone - but there are things about each and every one of them that are admirable, even if they have to wrong others and themselves on the road to finding their way.<br />As the story progresses, not only are we treated to the exhilarating experience of getting to know these amazing people - we are privileged to see them get to know, to understand, each other, to learn to live with and appreciate their differences, and to come to know themselves as well.  All of this 'education' is the stuff of life, of growing older - and, hopefully, wiser - and rarely have I seen it presented in such an intelligent and moving manner.  This is the mark of a writer who not only excels at his craft (his use of multiple points-of-view is very skillful, and suits the novel perfectly), but one who cares for the people he grew up with, indeed for all those with whom he shares the world.  He respects them - and his characters - for what they are, for what they have to offer each other, for their place in the scheme of things.<br />Writing like this is a treat - I can't recommend this novel (or his short story collection) highly enough, and I can't wait to read more.ner.  This is the mark of a writer who not only excels at his craft (his use of multiple points-of-view is very skillful, and suits the novel perfectly), but one who cares for the people he grew up with, indeed for all those with whom he shares the world.  He respects them - and his characters - for what they are, for what they have to offer each other, for their place in the scheme of things.<br />Writing like this is a treat - I can't recommend this novel (or his short story collection) highly enough, and I can't wait to read more.	2003-08-20
US	47392054	R2LGN1NKUWQCHD	0142002879	924143451	Annie Dunne	Books	5	27	27	N	N	MOVING AND CAPTIVATING	Sebastian Barry's second novel gives the reader a look at life in rural Ireland in the late 1950s from `ground level' - through the eyes of a woman in her early 60s who has returned from Dublin after middle age to live out her life on her cousin Sarah's farm.  Annie and Sarah are spinsters - but while they wonder, and honestly lament, from time to time their lot in life, they are reasonably satisfied with their station.  They live together in a small farmhouse with no electricity, no running water, no indoor plumbing.  They are honest, good-hearted people - but not without their faults and quirks (which loom larger in their own eyes than in the eyes of others).  One summer, Annie's nephew - who is in the process of relocating his family to London - drops off his son (4) and daughter (6) to stay with Annie and Sarah for the summer.  The presence of the two children is both a joy and an awful responsibility to the two older women - and over the course of their stay, their addition to the household, along with other events, cause Annie to doubt the stability of her own future with Sarah.<br />Barry's characters are all very well-developed - each of them veritably leaps off the page into the mind of the reader.  Told from Annie's perspective - and making the reader privy to her very thoughts - the story unfolds with many emotional and psychological, as well as social, aspects.  The tale marches along at a leisurely pace, picking up steam (as it should) near the end.  The language Barry employs is a gift - a rare glimpse (for those of us who have never been blessed to travel to Ireland) into the lives of these women and their neighbors.<br />This novel is a remarkable testament to the resilience of the human spirit, the ties of family and neighbors, and the healing power of even the simplest form of love and acceptance.	2003-08-18
US	47392054	R3GFNSVS7ECSTC	0679744010	833943531	The Collected Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	N	BLEAK, BLEAK...	McGahern writes beautifully, and he obviously has a keen eye - his portraits of the various Irish men and women who populate these stories are well-drawn, and he evokes not only the speech but the total experience of the Irish very well.  If only these stories weren't - at least for the most part - so bleak, I could personally enjoy them much more.  There's humor to be found within this volume, for sure - but for the most part I found hopelessness and resignation and emptiness and pathos.  Far too many of these tales - for my taste - involved people who were living in doubt:  doubt about their lives, their loves, their faith, their very place in life, the very land in which they dwell.  Doubt is not necessarily a bad thing - it calls us (hopefully) to reassess our beliefs and values, so that we may, when needed, reorder our lives.  The doubt that has entered the lives of these characters, however, seems to cover them like a blanket - and rather than struggle with it, they seem to welcome its false warmth, pulling it more tightly about their shoulders.<br />The stories take place in an Ireland in flux - torn between its spirited yet peaceful, more agrarian past, and the `new' world that encompasses industry and the so-called luxuries of modern life.  It's a change that has obviously ripped the very heart and soul out of many of these characters - even the ones whose stories are clearly taking place, more or less, in the present.  They inwardly and silently bemoan their state, yet they do nothing about it - and many of them use this dissatisfaction to justify the shallowness and dishonesty of the lives they lead.<br />All that being said, I did find a good deal of fine reading in this collection - especially the stories `The wine breath' and `Swallows'.  For me, these two stand head and shoulders above the rest - but different ones will no doubt appeal to different readers.  McGahern's writing is clear and powerful - I certainly wouldn't recommend any reader passing him by.  At the same time, I don't think I'd put him on a level with the short stories of James Joyce.  For modern Irish stories, I'll take the work of William Trevor any time.<br />I have McGahern's novel BY THE LAKE - I've read many good things about it, and I look forward very much to reading it.  Some things I've read about another novel of his, THE DARK, are intriguing as well.im by.  At the same time, I don't think I'd put him on a level with the short stories of James Joyce.  For modern Irish stories, I'll take the work of William Trevor any time.<br />I have McGahern's novel BY THE LAKE - I've read many good things about it, and I look forward very much to reading it.  Some things I've read about another novel of his, THE DARK, are intriguing as well.	2003-08-11
US	47392054	R2TY3LTV7WAB3E	067945439X	578664297	Fugitive Pieces	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A BOOK IN WHICH TO IMMERSE YOURSELF�	I read a quote somewhere to the effect that this was a book not so much to enter into, but to which the reader should surrender - and that's a very apt observation.  There is beauty and depth in Michaels' writing - it's clearly an advantage to the years she's put in writing poetry.  There are breathtaking passages on nearly every page - her prose is almost liquid in its richness.  There's a rather negative review below that states `Lyrical writing does not of itself make a great book or a great work of art' - this is a true statement, but there is SO much more to be experienced in this novel.  Michaels' characters are vivid and alive - both those who are `simple' and those who are deeper in their thought.  Jakob's character permeates the entire book - even in the second part, which is narrated by Ben, after Jakob's death.<br />Despite the fact that the Holocaust by its horrific nature plays a huge role in this story, this is not `just another Holocaust novel'.  Without bypassing the obscenities committed by the Nazis against the Jews (and anyone else they considered to be `inferior'), Michaels has given the reader a story of survival and rebuilding - not so much the rebuilding of bridges and cities, but the rebuilding of lives and spirits.  When Jakob witnesses - without seeing, hearing only peripheral sounds - the death of his parents and the abduction of his beloved sister, his heart is broken.  Nothing breaks like the heart of a child - and it takes immense effort, support and time for it to heal again.  Not only does Jakob manage, over the course of his life, to `get past' the unimaginable atrocities he has experienced and seen - he grows in sprit in an incredible way, making leaps beyond what he might have accomplished if his childhood had never been `interrupted' by the Nazis.<br />There's another quote on the back of the book that notes that readers will feel compelled to quote sentences and entire passages of it to others, to read it aloud, to discuss its meanings and insights - I've already found this to be true.  There is wisdom on every single page, and - despite some of the horrors depicted - an uplifting power that touches the spirit very deeply.  FUGITIVE PIECES is an astounding work - I found it intelligent, illuminating, breathing, and above all, moving.anings and insights - I've already found this to be true.  There is wisdom on every single page, and - despite some of the horrors depicted - an uplifting power that touches the spirit very deeply.  FUGITIVE PIECES is an astounding work - I found it intelligent, illuminating, breathing, and above all, moving.	2003-07-29
US	47392054	RD6HVQFB4G1DO	0425188353	370123682	The Skating Pond	Books	5	6	6	N	N	GENTLE METAPHORS � STRONG CHARACTERS AND STORY�	The metaphors in this novel are truly uncountable - but every one is aptly drawn.  Combine that with a cast of characters that are so compelling and real, involved in a story with which any reader should be able to relate, and there are plenty of reasons why this novel should be widely read and lauded.  The quote on the book from Elizabeth Hardwick, characterizing THE SKATING POND as `a love story' might lead some potential readers to write it off as romantic fluff - to do so would be to do this novel a great injustice.  This is simply incredible writing.<br />Corey's main character, Elizabeth, is thrust into adulthood at an early age through a double tragedy - the death of her mother and subsequent abandonment by her father.  Over the course of twelve years, we see Elizabeth go through the emotional ups and downs that would easily fill most people's lifetimes.  Through it all - through her yearnings for more than a life in a remote Maine coastal village can offer her - she remains questioning.  She questions the life led by those around her, and she questions herself - what does she really want out of life; what can she expect from it; what does she know of love, and what does she want from it?  These are things that each of us must work out for ourselves, in our own way - and Corey's lovely writing allows us inside Elizabeth's mind and heart as she walks (and sometimes stumbles, as do we all) through life.<br />Corey has a way of revealing the humanity and goodness that resides (I believe) in all people - even the characters in her story that are somewhat less than likable come across sympathetically, at least in some ways.  The life-lessons that her central character absorbs here are never presented as set-in-stone or rigid - as another reviewed astutely pointed out, it's all about the choices we make.  Those are the ones we have to live with.<br />I wonder if Corey set out to write such an ambitious novel, or if it `just happened' to turn out that way.  Whatever her original intentions, she has written an absorbing, rewarding and entertaining novel - highly recommended.her original intentions, she has written an absorbing, rewarding and entertaining novel - highly recommended.	2003-07-08
US	47392054	RAAFHUN4ND200	0374291861	845499672	Butterfly Burning: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	POWERFUL WRITING THAT SPEAKS TO THE UNIVERSAL HEART	Yvonne Vera's talent is amazing - she is gifted with the ability to relate stories set in her native Zimbabwe with stunning literary grace and beauty, opening the lives of her characters to the readers' eyes and hearts, laying bare the lovely and depraved and everything in between. That she does all of this and additionally illuminates and brings forth the universal aspects in each and every instance bears witness to the fact that, while she may be an African writer, writing about African people and events, she deserves to be recognized, admired and honored by the world at large - and the world at large owes it to itself to discover her talents.<br />BUTTERFLY BURNING is set in a Rhodesian township in the late 1940s - long before Independence from British rule. The black citizens (who, in reality, weren't recognized as citizens in their own country) were reviled by most of the whites, looked upon as a source of cheap labor and criminal activity. They weren't even allowed to walk on the sidewalks with the 'imported' white citizens. The heroine of Vera's novel is a young woman named Phephelaphi - orphaned as a young girl and raised by a close friend of her mother, she is filled with a burning need to always become more, to see her life expand without limits. This longing became widespread in the hearts of women in the West many years later with the rise of feminism - women sick of being relegated to cooking and cleaning, aching for more of an education and more of a chance to find their place in the world. Phephelaphi's yearnings lead her ever forward - emotionally, socially, and with respect to a potential career. When her path crosses with that of Fumbatha - an older man with a kind heart and a bruised and battered past (as many in Rhodesia were) - she finds love and security, and, for a while, satisfaction and fulfillment. With all of the love he can offer her, however, Fumbatha cannot fulfill all of Phephelaphi's needs - and her search to meet these needs brings her both joy and sorrow. The joys she experiences will raise your heart to the heavens - and her sorrows will break it.<br />As in her newest novel, THE STONE VIRGINS, Vera breathes palpable life into her characters - they are immediately acceptable and accessible to the reader. The physical settings - both the natural world and the world of the township and city - spring to life as well through the careful brush-strokes of the author's words. All of it blends together into a style that entertains on one level, certainly - but this writing will affect the reader on many, many levels. There is a depth and beauty here - and a natural grace - that is a rare thing in writing. Vera's novels are short (two of them, WITHOUT A NAME and UNDER THE TONGUE, are contained in one volume), but don't be deceived - once begun, they expand exponentially, and they will resonate within you for years to come.er both joy and sorrow. The joys she experiences will raise your heart to the heavens - and her sorrows will break it.<br />As in her newest novel, THE STONE VIRGINS, Vera breathes palpable life into her characters - they are immediately acceptable and accessible to the reader. The physical settings - both the natural world and the world of the township and city - spring to life as well through the careful brush-strokes of the author's words. All of it blends together into a style that entertains on one level, certainly - but this writing will affect the reader on many, many levels. There is a depth and beauty here - and a natural grace - that is a rare thing in writing. Vera's novels are short (two of them, WITHOUT A NAME and UNDER THE TONGUE, are contained in one volume), but don't be deceived - once begun, they expand exponentially, and they will resonate within you for years to come.	2003-07-08
US	47392054	R9C66DDGFTK8L	1579620833	135105995	Angels in the Morning	Books	3	2	4	N	N	SHOW ME THE MONET...	...with apologies to Jerry McGuire.  I mention Monet because the book jacket blurb compares the descriptions the author paints in words of the French countryside in summer to Monet's art.  Troyan's descriptive talents are noteworthy - but Monet she's not.  That being said, I can't blame the author for something her publisher has chosen to print inside the cover.<br />The story told her is one that is all too common - adults so wrapped up in leading (and unraveling) their own lives that the children with whom they have been bless are left to fend for themselves emotionally.  In this case, the children are sisters, Gabriel (our ten-year-old narrator) and her younger sister Alex.  Their family is seemingly wealthy, accustomed to summering in a rural French cottage.  Populating this story, besides the girls and their mother, are several other characters:  their maternal grandmother (Gabriel's best friend) and her constantly befuddled, fussy sister, both visiting from South Africa; their stuffy and emotionally frustrated English nanny Juliet; the chauffeur from Spain; a doctor who lives across the road; and a tramp who stumbles in and out of the scene from time to time.  The girls' father shows up and announces to his wife - and then to the girls - that he loves her, but that he is also in love with another woman.  Too typically, he also expresses his desire to keep both women as lovers.  His wife at first appears to be completely spineless in the face of such a ridiculous suggestion, holding out hope that he will `come to his senses' and return to her alone.  The aforementioned doctor, their neighbor, begins to offer romantic attention to the slighted wife - and she begins to let go of the idea that her husband will return.<br />The girls are pretty much left to their own devices in dealing with all of this.  The person who offers Gabriel the most support and insight is her granny - and she's very elderly and frail, and this interaction is thus limited.  The nanny is hopeless - she seems to be in lust with the chauffeur (who is married and has a family in Spain), and when she feels let down by or disappointed in him - or in her life in general - she tends to sit in her room by herself and get drunk.<br />When the children aren't being ignored or passed from one `caregiver' to another, they're being spoiled - and this factor in their upbringing is painfully obvious in many of Gabriel's narrative comments and observations.  Her sister Alex is deaf and wears hearing aids - and somehow this aspect of Alex's personality and life comes across as being trivialized.  Gabriel plays with Alex's hearing aids from time to time, wearing one so that the girls can be more like twins.  This is a bit perplexing, because Gabriel also complains now and then about her nanny or mother dressing the sisters alike.<br />As the story progresses, Gabriel (more than Alex) goes through the start of her coming-of-age process - she begins to see herself as less and less of a child over the course of the summer.  Unfortunately, she has no one around who is able or willing to give her any of the valuable guidance that an adolescent needs at this time - she is left with her own limited understanding and powers of reasoning (which are, in truth, still those of a child) to assist her in this summer of passage.<br />The story is an interesting one - but I felt that the setting superceded the plot.  Also, I felt that most of the characters were unlikable in the extreme - even the children, who should always be given all due consideration and not blamed for their upbringing (or lack of it) were almost completely without charm.  Their grandmother was the most likable persona presented here - and she was so close to the end of her days, so frail physically, that she had very little to offer them.<br />On a final note - does The Permanent Press (the book's publisher) even employ an editor?  At several locations in the text, an unjustified paragraph would suddenly pop upin the midst of the others.  Now and then a line would end with a long space, and what appeared to be intended as the next paragraph continued below without any indentation - upon reading further, it was clear that this line should have followed the sentence above within the same paragraph.  There was even one place where a quotation ran to the end of a line, with the closing quotation marks sitting alone on the line below.  I felt like I was reading one of those advance copies that are distributed unedited for review purposes.  The fact that this book was released with this many errors in it is simply sloppy on the part of the publisher - and whether you like the book or not, it's an affront to the author and her work, as well as to the readers.in the midst of the others.  Now and then a line would end with a long space, and what appeared to be intended as the next paragraph continued below without any indentation - upon reading further, it was clear that this line should have followed the sentence above within the same paragraph.  There was even one place where a quotation ran to the end of a line, with the closing quotation marks sitting alone on the line below.  I felt like I was reading one of those advance copies that are distributed unedited for review purposes.  The fact that this book was released with this many errors in it is simply sloppy on the part of the publisher - and whether you like the book or not, it's an affront to the author and her work, as well as to the readers.	2003-06-27
US	47392054	RA4WXIFKQB3OY	037550799X	486476742	Our Father Who Art in a Tree: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A FAMILY DEALS WITH GRIEF	This story of a family attempting to deal with the natural grief they feel at the death of the husband/father is a touching one, and poignantly told by Pascoe's ten year-old narrator Simone.  The author manages to capture the voice of the girl very well - an all-important factor when utilizing such a young narrator - and the ways in which the various surviving family members deal with their loss ring very true.  Naturally, they run the gamut from shock to bottomless sadness to anger - and everything in between.<br />Simone has the emotions of three brothers - one younger, two older - as well as her mother's on her hands, not to mention her own.  Neighbors and extended family members all have their two cents' worth to contribute to the situation as well.  When Simone climbs the huge tree in the family's yard and hears the voice of her recently departed dad speaking to her - and answering her - things begin to get a little out of hand.  Her mom soon discovers Simone's secret, and channels her grief into the tree as well - her brothers are a bit more skeptical about the whole business.  It's when the neighbors find out what's going on that the family's difficulties begin to be the center of attention for outsiders - deep grief is hard enough to deal with within a family, and when a whole gaggle of neighborhood busybodies decide that Simone's mum has gone off her nut, they set out to intervene.  Add to all of this the fact that the roots of the tree are beginning to do serious damage to the house itself, and the mixture becomes even more volatile.  Pressures mount on Simone's mom to have the tree cut down before the house is destroyed - but she clings to it as much as Simone, for some of the same reasons as well as some of her own.<br />This is Pascoe's first novel - she also works as a stand-up comedienne (and, I believe, in theatre) - and it's a fine effort.  There are passages full of great sensitivity and insight, and there's a liberal sprinkling of humor as well - which never, thankfully, becomes the dominant mood of the book.  As humorous as several of the scenes might be, the author never strays far from the heart of the matter - that grief is a natural reaction to a loss such as this family has experienced, and that it is a universal trial.  Each of us must find our own best way of dealing with it.  This book is a very entertaining and insightful read for readers of any age - and I can imagine that it might be extremely helpful for a young person (say between 10-17) who is struggling to deal with the trauma of grief for the first time.which never, thankfully, becomes the dominant mood of the book.  As humorous as several of the scenes might be, the author never strays far from the heart of the matter - that grief is a natural reaction to a loss such as this family has experienced, and that it is a universal trial.  Each of us must find our own best way of dealing with it.  This book is a very entertaining and insightful read for readers of any age - and I can imagine that it might be extremely helpful for a young person (say between 10-17) who is struggling to deal with the trauma of grief for the first time.	2003-06-23
US	47392054	R25WOTACMR1A54	0374270082	218053695	The Stone Virgins: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A STUNNING CREATION � MOVING AND POETIC	Yvonne Vera is an artist - a painter with words.  The images she conjures, her amazing gifts to the reader, that grace the pages of this incredible novel, come straight from her soul - which is obviously filled with a deep love and compassion for her homeland, Zimbabwe, and its people.  In these few pages (less than 200), she manages, through the related experiences, thoughts and emotions of her four main characters, to enlighten the world about the joyous/painful rebirth of Rhodesia into Zimbabwe, and to comment with cutting insight on forces as universal to all of humanity as love, hate, peace, war, kindness, unspeakable cruelty, and selfless, unconditional devotion.<br />She does all of this by utlizing language that is some of the most poetic and beautiful I have ever been blessed to read - her prose is by turns stark and loving, sheltering and illuminating, protective of what is fragile and precious, and unflinchingly revelatory about what is shameful and despicable.  Her writing style varies so subtly as the story demands that it sometimes shifts imperceptably between long, graceful, sweeping word-strokes and choppy thought-bursts that could be described as literary pointillism.  With some of the incomprehensible violence that occurs in this story, the beauty of Vera's writing is even more of a blessing - without, it would be a great temptation to turn away.  That being said, there are also examples within of some of the most wonderful depths of the human spirit.<br />On the first level a story about the effect of the struggle for (and after) Independence on four people - two women, sisters; and two men, one compassionate and one a killing machine - the novel expands in depth to address multiple layers of human emotion and experience.  In just one example, Vera's work here delves deeply and inspiringly into the types and purposes of memory - its coexisiting roles that aid us in understanding, protecting us, connecting us with our past and our environment, and healing us.<br />A word of warning, to those who might be tempted to mentally shelve this wondrous novel in `African fiction' - to do so will do a horrible disservice, not only to this author and her work, but to yourself.  This is a novel that can - and should - be experienced by sensitive readers regardless of their ethnic or national background.  It speaks to the universality of the human soul - I cannot recommend it highly enough.healing us.<br />A word of warning, to those who might be tempted to mentally shelve this wondrous novel in `African fiction' - to do so will do a horrible disservice, not only to this author and her work, but to yourself.  This is a novel that can - and should - be experienced by sensitive readers regardless of their ethnic or national background.  It speaks to the universality of the human soul - I cannot recommend it highly enough.	2003-06-22
US	47392054	R1IAWEP5EK7MQH	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	5	3	3	N	N	ONCE AGAIN, KATHY FINDS THE MAGIC�	In each of her three fine novels, Kathy Hepinstall shows readers that she's not only a talented writer - eloquent, imaginative and entertaining - but that she has a rare ability to find within each story an element of magic, something at the core of a character or a situation that transcends (and at the same time illuminates) the frail reality through which we, and her characters, pass.  The characters themselves are always entirely believable, immediately acceptable to the reader, sounding a resonating chord of empathy almost from the moment they are introduced.  The stories/situations in which her characters find themselves are equally grounded - even as they venture near the fantastic from time to time, there is nothing in them that is beyond belief.  From time to time, I read a novel or story that stretches things a little too far - I find myself saying, `Oh, come on now...'  I have never felt that way reading any of Kathy's books - they always draw me in rapidly, allowing me to feel myself pulled along by the characters and plots.  Each one has made me more and more glad that THE HOUSE OF GENTLE MEN caught my eye that day in the bookstore.<br />There is an element of madness within PRINCE OF LOST PLACES - it's a definite presence, but we're not sure for most of the book where to place it.  It's a bit like a firefly that won't settle anywhere - when it finally lands (and Kathy plays the suspense element of this novel masterfully) it does so delicately, touching without tainting, without judging, without condemning or vilifying.  We're left with the questions `Who is really mad',  `What is reality' and `What would YOU have done?' echoing in our heads.<br />Without going into the plot itself (it's been done in plenty of other places), I'll simply point out that the emotions experienced by the characters are deep and real - and they're emotions with which each and every reader should be able to empathize. The book is a brief one - and I have to agree with another reviewer below that the pace with which the story is told (as well as the multiple viewpoints) adds to the presence of `dysreality' (I love making up words...) within.  I put off reading this wonderful novel for too long - now that I've experienced it, I'm sorry I didn't pick it up as soon as it came out.  This one shouldn't be missed!eviewer below that the pace with which the story is told (as well as the multiple viewpoints) adds to the presence of `dysreality' (I love making up words...) within.  I put off reading this wonderful novel for too long - now that I've experienced it, I'm sorry I didn't pick it up as soon as it came out.  This one shouldn't be missed!	2003-06-14
US	47392054	R24PTP23B7F1TO	0312199368	459610148	The Next Step in the Dance: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	WELL-WRITTEN, BUT�	...I have to agree - at least in part - with another reviewer who prefers Tim Gautreaux's short stories to this, his first novel.  I wouldn't go so far as to compare it to a TV soap, however - the characters here are far more believable, down-to-earth and fleshed-out than the cardboard cutouts that populate the morning and afternoon airwaves.  Gautreaux is an excellent writer, and I don't think he deserves that sort of analogy.<br />The novel is not face-paced - there are some scenes in it that are full of action, and these move along nicely, but for the most part it is languid, much like the atmosphere that so dominates the landscape of the South.  Like that atmosphere, the book is thick with the sort of stuff that cannot be readily seen - but it can most certainly be felt.  In his depiction of the troubled marriage between Paul and Colette Thibodeaux, the author demonstrates (as he does so well in his short stories) how well he knows the people of his region - indeed, of any region, for the emotions laid bare here in his carefully paced prose and dialogue are universal.  They exist in all of us - especially those of us who have been blessed enough to experience the joys, sorrows, ecstasy, pain and constant struggle of a relationship.  Fairy tales are just that - fairy tales - and this is not one.  To make a marriage/relationship last takes constant attention and work, give and take, mutual respect, strength, wisdom and compromise, and much, much more.  It is never a free ride - and this is something that most of us have to learn by doing, sometimes `the hard way'.  The trick is to stick with it - at least one of the partners has to have the commitment and the faith to keep trying to make things work.  That is the core of Paul Thibodeaux's character - and that is the engine that pulls this novel along, slowly sometimes, but surely.<br />For about the first 60 pages or so, I found myself tempted to put the book down, possibly returning to it when I was more `in the mood' for its pace - but I persevered, and I'm so glad I did.  Once I relaxed enough to accept the pace at which Gautreaux is determined to tell this story, I was pulled into it headlong, and I had reached the end before I knew it.  I have a lot of respect for an author who has that sort of talent - the sort that makes know there is a lot to be gained from a book if I give myself up to it completely.<br />I see that Gautreaux has a new novel, THE CLEARING - I can't wait to read it.  This man is an incredibly talented artist - his style is both powerful and gentle, and he has stories to tell.  Listen to him.mood' for its pace - but I persevered, and I'm so glad I did.  Once I relaxed enough to accept the pace at which Gautreaux is determined to tell this story, I was pulled into it headlong, and I had reached the end before I knew it.  I have a lot of respect for an author who has that sort of talent - the sort that makes know there is a lot to be gained from a book if I give myself up to it completely.<br />I see that Gautreaux has a new novel, THE CLEARING - I can't wait to read it.  This man is an incredibly talented artist - his style is both powerful and gentle, and he has stories to tell.  Listen to him.	2003-06-13
US	47392054	R19DFA8CTNFP85	0743228634	462663246	Carrying the Body: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	VERY ODD � BUT IN GOOD WAYS�	...and that's a complement.  The style employed by the author in this short, discomforting novel suits the story - and the characters - perfectly.  This is one of those `finds' that I noticed on the shelf in a bookstore, read the inner flap, and decided to take a chance on it, without first delving into the book itself.  The language and syntax might have put me off if I had given the book a quick thumb-through - and that would have been a pity.<br />The story concerns one of the most dysfunctional, disturbed families I've come across - and not in the `they slaughtered their neighbors and everyone says they were such quiet people' sense.  This is a bit of a horror story, but much more subtle and subdued than that.  Each member of the family, in their own quiet way, is a bit of a sociopath.  The matriarch of the family is long dead;  the father sits most of the time in a vegetative state;  the oldest daughter (referred to only as `aunt' in the book) has continued living in the house in order to care for him;  the youngest daughter, Elise, has been missing for years, having run away when she was younger, only to return in the `present' of the novel with a child fathered by an un-named lover.  The child is ill - chills, fever, a bloody rash - and Elise doesn't quite seem to know how to care for him.  She spends most of her time searching through the house for something mysteriously unidentified.  The aunt is beside herself - she feels that she has been put upon for years, left `holding the bag' in caring for their father and the house in which they live, `and now this'.  The story unfolds in a very choppy manner, depicted perfectly in the author's chosen prose - it realistically reproduces the shattered thought processes of all those involved, as well as the unpredictability of the events.<br />I've come across a couple of other novels over the last few years that have been very successful at putting the reader inside the head of a character (or in this case, a set of characters as well as a place and time) that is significantly disturbed:  Patrick McGrath's masterful SPIDER will astonish you;  and Einer Mar Gudmundson's ANGELS OF THE UNIVERSE is very effective as well.  CARRYING THE BODY is not quite in the same league as these two - this novel is more focused on emotions than those two - but it's an entertaining, interesting read nonetheless.  Highly recommended.characters as well as a place and time) that is significantly disturbed:  Patrick McGrath's masterful SPIDER will astonish you;  and Einer Mar Gudmundson's ANGELS OF THE UNIVERSE is very effective as well.  CARRYING THE BODY is not quite in the same league as these two - this novel is more focused on emotions than those two - but it's an entertaining, interesting read nonetheless.  Highly recommended.	2003-05-17
US	47392054	R2N9E6SK1MN782	0399149635	332649910	The Mushroom Man	Books	2	2	4	N	N	PERHAPS I'M MISSING SOMETHING...	...but I don't think so.  I've read most of the reviews below, and the only one I can really agree with is the one that only gave the book one star - I wouldn't slag it quite that much, but I was very disappointed.  I saw this novel in a local bookstore a few weeks ago, and it looked interesting - after picking it up and reading it, I felt let down.  I found the voice the author chose a bit too child-like for the things that went on in the story (and I won't give away any more of the plot that the jacket blurb does, don't worry) - it was fine for the storyline concerning Lily (the young girl who goes missing in the woods in search of the Mushroom Man), but it grated badly in the more `adult' areas of the story.  I also felt that the characterizations were extremely shallow - again, more like what I would expect in a children's book, or at least in a book for adults that deals with its storyline from a child's point of view.  The ending tied everything up much too neatly, and left me with the impression that the writer had either (a) run out of steam or ideas, or (b) simply got tired of trying to see the book through to a proper end.<br />If you're looking for intelligent writing that employs a child's viewpoint without insulting the intelligence of the adult reader, there are many, many options out there more satisfying than this novel:  Alison McGhee's amazing SHADOW BABY;  Erri de Luca's luminous GOD'S MOUNTAIN;  N. M. Kelby's IN THE COMPANY OF ANGELS;  Polly Whitney's stunning THIS IS GRACEANNE'S BOOK;  Ben Rice's POBBY & DINGAN;  Sharon Wyse's THE BOX CHILDREN;  Gaetan Soucy's THE LITTLE GIRL WHO WAS TOO FOND OF MATCHES;  Eliza Minot's THE TINY ONE;  Elizabeth Graver's THE HONEY THIEF;  Kathy Hepinstall's THE ABSENCE OF NECTAR;  Brian Hall's THE SASKIAD...the list goes on and on.  Some of these novels feature very young characters - some of them are more `coming-of-age' novels - but they're all superb.	2003-05-15
US	47392054	R30TP9OUPMAEUC	0151006989	4435106	Earth and Ashes	Books	5	23	23	N	N	MASTERFUL ECONOMY OF WORDS	Atiq Rahimi's short novel set during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan compresses an amazing amount of emotion, pain and loss into its 81 pages.  He gives us an incredible, ground-level view of what war can do to a nation that is already poor (in material things, that is - the spirit depicted here is stunning in its resilience) and lacking in the infrastructures and other benefits we tend to take for granted - running water, literacy, health services.  The TV newscasts tend to take a view rather like some history books, speaking in terms of armies and generals and referring to people as nations, thereby depersonalizing the conflict.<br />The author has done an astonishing job in conveying the experience of his elderly narrator, Dastaguir - the old man has seen his village destroyed by the Soviets, all of his family that lived there killed with the exception of his grandson Yassin, who has been left deafened by the explosions.  Dastaguir, in his grief and desperation, sets off on a tortuous trek through a harsh landscape in order to find his son Murad, Yassin's father, and inform him of the death of the boy's mother and the destruction of the village.  Along the way, Dastaguir wrestles with his grief (how to allow it to escape his heart);  his conscience (how to tell Murad of the tragedy without destroying him);  his sense of revenge and his hope for his nation and the world;  nightmarish visions, hallucinations and memories that are too terrible to accept as reality.  All the while, he must care for his grandson.  The boy has no understanding of what has happened to him - he knows that most of his family is now dead, and he comprehends the destruction of the village, but he fails to grasp the reality of his own deafness.  He thinks that the Russians have stolen the sounds from the world, and the voices from the people, in the attack.  When Yassin finally asks `Grandfather, do I have a voice?', and the old man tells him `yes', it begins to sink it - his next question to Dastaguir is `So why am I alive?'  It's a question that breaks the old man's heart - and one that he cannot answer.<br />On his journey to find his son, Dastaguir encounters several amazing characters.  Chief among these in kindness and wisdom is Mirza Qadir, a shopkeeper.  The book makes the point that every single person has his or her own story - that these are individuals, not just a faceless `nation'.  They laugh and cry and love and suffer pain and loss and grief - and all of these are brought to life vividly in this short but rich work.<br />This is a story that will stand the test of time - and it is one that each of us should experience.  I feel a heartfelt gratitude that Atiq Rahimi has focused what is obviously a formidable talent into blessing us with this precious gift.ion to Dastaguir is `So why am I alive?'  It's a question that breaks the old man's heart - and one that he cannot answer.<br />On his journey to find his son, Dastaguir encounters several amazing characters.  Chief among these in kindness and wisdom is Mirza Qadir, a shopkeeper.  The book makes the point that every single person has his or her own story - that these are individuals, not just a faceless `nation'.  They laugh and cry and love and suffer pain and loss and grief - and all of these are brought to life vividly in this short but rich work.<br />This is a story that will stand the test of time - and it is one that each of us should experience.  I feel a heartfelt gratitude that Atiq Rahimi has focused what is obviously a formidable talent into blessing us with this precious gift.	2003-05-15
US	47392054	R7BLA8Z6GWBXZ	0393003361	922001396	The Horned Man	Books	2	21	28	N	N	DISAPPOINTING AND PREDICTABLE	I had high hopes for this novel when I first saw it, then read about it - from the inside flap:  `(the book) opens with a man losing his place in a book, then deepens into a dark and terrifying tale of a man losing his place in the world'.  Already, I'm thinking `Kafka' - and my premonition was dead-on.  Not only are there many allusions to Kafka's writings in this novel, there are direct references to the Master.  One of his stories is mentioned, as well as a play based upon it (`Blumfeld, an elderly bachelor').  The play especially figures in the novel's plot in a large way - and there are many Kafka-esque twists and turns throughout the book.<br />My problem is this is not with Lasdun admiring and emulating Kafka to a degree.  In Kafka's works, the reader comes to expect these twists and turns - they are not always gentle one, sometimes leaving the reader with the feeling that he or she has been jerked off-path in whatever direction Kafka wishes to lead us.  In the case of Lasdun's novel, I was left with the distinct feeling that I had been manipulated - and in several cases, I could see the twists coming a mile away, `with the headlights on' as they say. I found this `telegraphing' of the plot twists to be increasingly overt as the novel wore on. It left the work with an air of derivation, of the work of a poseur attempting to dress it up as being more intellectual than it really is.  I don't mean this to come across as too heavy-handed a criticism - Lasdun is a talented writer, I just think he needs to come up with a method of plot development that is a bit smoother, one that doesn't `try so hard'.	2003-05-11
US	47392054	R27GOVGLYNCKU	0765302446	807141442	Shadows of Blue & Gray : The Civil War Writings of Ambrose Bierce	Books	5	10	10	N	N	LEST WE FORGET, OR BE SWAYED BY THE HISTORY BOOKS�	It's easy to look back and view wars as things of glory - the history books tend to lead us in that direction by viewing the action from lofty heights, speaking in terms of armies and strategies and generals.  The reality - as those who have `been there' know too well (and no, I'm not claiming to be a veteran) - is that the old adage is all too true:  war is definitely hell, and we should never, ever forget that fact.<br />Ambrose Bierce is known today mainly through his fiction - many fine examples of which appear in this collection - and through THE DEVIL'S DICTIONARY.  He `might or might not' be the subject and/or inspiration for Carlos Fuentes' novel THE OLD GRINGO, also made into a film.  His stories have a decidedly `creepy' feel to them - he was no Edgar Allan Poe, perhaps, but he was a talented writer nonetheless...and as not only the short stories, but also the non-fiction pieces collected here demonstrate, he was a careful and articulate observer.  We are truly blessed that he chose to recount what he had seen, both in the form of short stories and memoirs.  His disappearance in 1914 in Mexico has added to his mystique over the ensuing years.<br />The most famous of the short stories contained in this volume is undoubtedly `An occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge'.  I remember reading it in high school (NO, I won't say how long ago that was...) - and it was filmed to great effect by director Roberto Enrico in 1962, and was subsequently aired in the US as an episode in the last season of THE TWILGHT ZONE on CBS.  It won an Oscar in 1964 as Best Foreign Short Film.  The story is a masterpiece of suspense - it's a great literary epitaph for Bierce.<br />Bierce served in the Civil War - he enlisted at its outset and saw quite a bit of action.  He rose through the ranks to lieutenant and served on the staff of various high-ranking officers.  It is his observations and experiences - and his empathy with the troops, the enlisted men, the common man - that lend such a value to his writings.  Too much `Hollywood-izing' has been forced upon the truth - about the Civil War and almost everything the film industry touches.  It's a treasure to have the pieces here to vividly remind us of what the experience was really like.<br />There is humor here as well - Bierce's wit was an acerbic sword, and he unsheathed it on the high and low alike, without sparing himself in the process.  His characterizations of the generals under whom he served, as well as the enlisted soldiers, the post-war opportunists, and the intellectual crowd with whom he mingled both in the US and abroad, are rich indeed.<br />The language is understandably a bit archaic in places - but I found myself getting used to it pretty quickly.  As a result, the book took me a bit longer to read than the contemporary fiction I normally favor - but it was definitely worth the time.  I can recommend this collection to aficionados of fiction and history buffs alike - a great read.alue to his writings.  Too much `Hollywood-izing' has been forced upon the truth - about the Civil War and almost everything the film industry touches.  It's a treasure to have the pieces here to vividly remind us of what the experience was really like.<br />There is humor here as well - Bierce's wit was an acerbic sword, and he unsheathed it on the high and low alike, without sparing himself in the process.  His characterizations of the generals under whom he served, as well as the enlisted soldiers, the post-war opportunists, and the intellectual crowd with whom he mingled both in the US and abroad, are rich indeed.<br />The language is understandably a bit archaic in places - but I found myself getting used to it pretty quickly.  As a result, the book took me a bit longer to read than the contemporary fiction I normally favor - but it was definitely worth the time.  I can recommend this collection to aficionados of fiction and history buffs alike - a great read.	2003-05-05
US	47392054	R3KUA6U8MBHIPN	1565123751	56244403	New Stories from the South 2002: The Year's Best	Books	5	1	1	N	N	LITERARY DIM SUM FROM THE SOUTH�?	This is the first installment of this well-respected series that I have read - and I'm impressed.  It's definitely a feast - so I won't apologize for the `title' above.  I won't try to tell you that I absolutely loved everything in this book - but I found several that blew me away, and I've added a few authors to my `seek further' list as a result.<br />I've been a huge fan of William Gay ever since I first read any of his work - and his story `Charting the territories of the red' in this volume is no disappointment.  I'll pick up anything I see by him without question.  New discoveries (and I'm speaking for myself here...) in this volume include Romulus Linney (his story `Tennessee' here is simply amazing);  Dwight Allen (who contributes `End of the steam age';  Aaron Gwyn, a promising young talent (`Of falling');  and the incredible `Rat spoon' by Dulane Upshaw Ponder.  Also notable is R. T. Smith's `I have lost my right';  the dark `Beneath the deep, slow motion' by Brad Barkley;  Bill Roorbach's touching `Big Bend'; and another very dark tale, `The bone divers', by David Koon.<br />The other stories here are all well written - these are simply the ones that touched me most deeply.  Some of them are so good they made my mouth drop open from time to time.  I'll definitely be checking out some of the other volumes in this series, as well as some of the works by the authors I mentioned above - some of them have novels or collections forthcoming.	2003-05-05
US	47392054	R10WGVAJLSHQRC	0062509373	495578543	Book of the Dun Cow, The	Books	5	17	17	N	N	WELL-WRITTEN, COMPELLING FANTASY...WITH A SOUL	The blurbs on the cover, and inside, compare this novel to Orwell's ANIMAL FARM, Tolkien's LORD OF THE RINGS and Adams' WATERSHIP DOWN - all of which are apt.  The difference between this and Orwell's book - the most obvious jumping-off place of reference, with animals as characters - is, as another reviewer so correctly pointes out below, Wangerin has added the elements of spirituality and faith to the mix.  I'm reminded on many of the works I've read by Frederick Buechner - although he uses human beings as his characters, I see many parallels between the gently gripping writing styles employed by Buechner and Wangerin.<br />Even though all of the characters in this novel are animals, the reader should be able to identify and empathize with them easily.  The author has imbued them with the qualities one would expect to find in novels of the fantasy/adventure genre - they are brave and heroic and pure-hearted.  Well, for the most part - what makes these characters most compelling is not their shining virtues (although there are many), but rather their `warts', their shortcomings, their thoughts and actions that are somewhat less than heroic, sometimes downright selfish and dishonorable and despicable.  The inspiration lies in the fact that through their faith, and through the goodness that lies at the core of all creatures' hearts, they overcome these obstacles and manage to BE heroic when they are afraid, find the faith to BELIEVE their cause is just and that they have a chance to triumph, find the good within themselves to put aside the more petty instincts and simply DO THE RIGHT THING.<br />The story is a gripping one - a classic case of the ultimate battle between the forces of Good and Evil.  Wangerin's prose flows along rather like a river, drawing the reader along for the ride - and it's a rewarding one.  Now all I have to do is read the sequel.<br />Speaking of which...this novel was recommended to me (and loaned to me) by a dear friend - and after reading and experiencing it, I can easily see why she was drawn to it, why she returns to it (she tells me) again and again.  This is a book filled with innocence and hope and positivism - qualities I see in abundance in her.  Thanks, Dren...this was a great recommendation!and experiencing it, I can easily see why she was drawn to it, why she returns to it (she tells me) again and again.  This is a book filled with innocence and hope and positivism - qualities I see in abundance in her.  Thanks, Dren...this was a great recommendation!	2003-04-11
US	47392054	RIBG2O0F3QMB8	0670031542	730101042	The Story of Lucy Gault	Books	5	17	21	N	N	ONE OF HIS BEST WORKS	It saddens me to see another reviewer call THE STORY OF LUCY GAULT a `failure' for William Trevor - I think it's one of his most beautiful, satisfying works.  There is a gentle, patient quality to Trevor's writing - it seeps into the mind, heart and soul of the reader, emerging into a fullness that envelops and surrounds.  The reader experiences the story as if surrounded by it.  As in most of his other works, there are no frantic action sequences here - the pace is almost languid, but it is never uninvolving.  I liked the comment by another reviewer that this novel is really an epic poem - it certainly has the language of that form, as well as the sense of the eternal about it.<br />In the story, we follow the life of Lucy Gault from her childhood through most of the rest of her life.  At the outset of the book (in the 1920s), she lives with her parents in relative privilege and security on an estate in the Irish countryside.  They are good people - but resented by those in the growing Irish independence movement for their English ties, and the fact that Lucy's father served in the English army.  After a frightening incident in which arsonists attempt to burn down the Gaults' home with the family inside, the parents come to the painful decision that it would be best for them to close up the house and move to England until the `troubles' blow over.  Lucy, being a nine year-old girl, is not consulted in this decision, and resents it greatly - and on the eve of the family's planned departure, she decides to run away and seek out the family's recently-dismissed maid as a refuge, thinking that the time it takes them to find her will give them the opportunity to change their mind about the move.<br />The nearby village is very dependent on the sea for much of its income - and knows first-hand and all too well that the sea is an unforgiving and powerful partner.  The sight of women keening on the strand over husbands who have not returned from a stormy night is not an uncommon one.  When Lucy disappears, and a couple of articles of her clothing (actually lost by her on earlier trips to the shore) are found in the subsequent search, the family and the village assumes that she has been taken by the sea, that she is dead.  Plunged into grief over the loss of their only child, her parents accept their assumption as fact and determine that the only thing for them to do is to leave the country.  They set out on a pilgrimage of healing and mourning that takes them through several countries in pre-WWII Europe, settling at last in Italy.<br />After Lucy's survival comes to light back in the village, repeated attempts are made to contact the parents - none of which meet with success.  She is taken in by the old couple who have been assigned the task of caretakers for the estate in the absence of the Gaults, and she grows into an adult under their care.  They love her dearly, and are wonderful surrogate parents to her.<br />I'll leave off describing any more of the plot here - I'll allow the reader to experience that firsthand.<br />The beauty of this book - as with all of Trevor's works - lies in his language and pace.  Being of Irish descent himself, he has a loving first-hand knowledge of the Irish people.  The characters depicted in the novel are not the crass stereotypes found in too many places - neither are they overly romanticized.  They come across as simple, honest people - uneducated and unexposed to the world at large, perhaps - who try their best to live their lives to the fullest in the surroundings to which they were born.  Their values are never preached - they are lived, which makes them all the more honorable.  In the capturing of their speech patterns and cadences, Trevor is particularly successful - there are no catchphrases from ridiculous Irish jokes here, just everyday conversations made real by their honesty and simplicity.<br />It's a joy to read anything that William Trevor produces - and it's a joy to see that his creative powers are as strong as ever.  His work is some of the best in 20th century literature - experience it and you'll see that's not an overstatement.reative powers are as strong as ever.  His work is some of the best in 20th century literature - experience it and you'll see that's not an overstatement.	2003-04-08
US	47392054	RECGDE6N23JLM	0670031542	730101042	The Story of Lucy Gault	Books	5	1	2	N	N	ONE OF HIS BEST WORKS	It saddens me to see another reviewer call THE STORY OF LUCY GAULT a failure for William Trevor  I think its one of his most beautiful, satisfying works.  There is a gentle, patient quality to Trevors writing  it seeps into the mind, heart and soul of the reader, emerging into a fullness that envelops and surrounds.  The reader experiences the story as if surrounded by it.  As in most of his other works, there are no frantic action sequences here  the pace is almost languid, but it is never uninvolving.  I liked the comment by another reviewer that this novel is really an epic poem  it certainly has the language of that form, as well as the sense of the eternal about it.<br />In the story, we follow the life of Lucy Gault from her childhood through most of the rest of her life.  At the outset of the book (in the 1920s), she lives with her parents in relative privilege and security on an estate in the Irish countryside.  They are good people  but resented by those in the growing Irish independence movement for their English ties, and the fact that Lucys father served in the English army.   After a frightening incident in which arsonists attempt to burn down the Gaults home with the family inside, the parents come to the painful decision that it would be best for them to close up the house and move to England until the troubles blow over.  Lucy, being a nine year-old girl, is not consulted in this decision, and resents it greatly  and on the eve of the familys planned departure, she decides to run away and seek out the familys recently-dismissed maid as a refuge, thinking that the time it takes them to find her will give them the opportunity to change their mind about the move.<br />The nearby village is very dependent on the sea for much of its income  and knows first-hand and all too well that the sea is an unforgiving and powerful partner.  The sight of women keening on the strand over husbands who have not returned from a stormy night is not an uncommon one.  When Lucy disappears, and a couple of articles of her clothing (actually lost by her on earlier trips to the shore) are found in the subsequent search, the family and the village assumes that she has been taken by the sea, that she is dead.  Plunged into grief over the loss of their only child, her parents accept their assumption as fact and determine that the only thing for them to do is to leave the country.  They set out on a pilgrimage of healing and mourning that takes them through several countries in pre-WWII Europe, settling at last in Italy.<br />After Lucys survival comes to light back in the village, repeated attempts are made to contact the parents  none of which meet with success.  She is taken in by the old couple who have been assigned the task of caretakers for the estate in the absence of the Gaults, and she grows into an adult under their care.  They love her dearly, and are wonderful surrogate parents to her.<br />Ill leave off describing any more of the plot here  Ill allow the reader to experience that firsthand.<br />The beauty of this book  as with all of Trevors works  lies in his language and pace.  Being of Irish descent himself, he has a loving first-hand knowledge of the Irish people.  The characters depicted in the novel are not the crass stereotypes found in too many places  neither are they overly romanticized.  They come across as simple, honest people  uneducated and unexposed to the world at large, perhaps  who try their best to live their lives to the fullest in the surroundings to which they were born.  Their values are never preached  they are lived, which makes them all the more honorable.  In the capturing of their speech patterns and cadences, Trevor is particularly successful  there are no catchphrases from ridiculous Irish jokes here, just everyday conversations made real by their honesty and simplicity.<br />Its a joy to read anything that William Trevor produces  and its a joy to see that his creative powers are as strong as ever.  His work is some of the best in 20th century literature  experience it and youll see thats not an overstatement.	2003-04-08
US	47392054	R1K1GC4HWUV2KV	1582340358	147077523	Nick Drake: The Biography	Books	2	55	59	N	N	A STONE IN A TIN CAN...	I was very disappointed in this book - and while some of that disappointment is with the style of writing Mr. Humphries employs here, there's more to it than that.  Writing a biography is a tricky proposition at best.  In the case of an artist like Nick Drake - reclusive and withdrawn, with only one interview given during his brief lifetime - it's a task even more daunting than one would usually expect.  Humphries has written bios of other musicians - Paul Simon, Bruce Springsteen, Richard Thompson, Tom Waits, &c - and has evidently built a career and reputation in this area.  I'm sure that he felt drawn to the music of Nick Drake in some ways, rather than simply choosing an artist about whom to write in the hope of selling tons of books - there are innumerable choices that would have garnered him greater sales - but without the cooperation of two critical people in Nick's life (his sister Gabrielle and his manager/producer Joe Boyd), given the nature of his subject, the project was more or less doomed from the start.<br />Humphries mentions in his forward that Joe and Gabrielle `had decided not to cooperate' - and since Joe's Warlock Music is the publisher of all of Nick's songs, this also meant that Humphries would be unable to quote from Nick's lyrics.  He was thus reduced to quoting Gabrielle and Joe from previously available sources.  Molly and Rodney Drake, Nick's parents, were deceased, so no direct conversations between them and the author were possible either.  The only other sources left for him upon which to draw were the remembrances of various friends of Nick and written articles about the man and his music.  What emerges from all of this is inevitably a choppy picture of the man - not unsympathetic, but jarring and incomplete.  Many parts of the book are simply strings of quotes strung together - and too many of the gaps have been filled in by well-meaning but ultimately tedious anecdotes about the music scene of the 60s and 70s in general.  Referring to the musicians and bands emerging from the public school scene in the UK of the time, Humphries mentions Genesis coming out of Charterhouse to begin their `windy, wuthering road' to success - a reference to their `Wind and wuthering' album of the late 70s.  He's trying a little too hard here for my tastes, I'm afraid.<br />Another irritating practice of Humphries is that he contradicts himself in too many places to mention.  He can't seem to settle on his own opinion.  On p. 93, he says `FIVE LEAVES LEFT is an astonishingly assured and mature debut' - on p. 94, he says `Lyrically the songs on FIVE LEAVES LEFT are largely unremarkable'.  Huh?  On p. 89, he speaks warmly of how well Robert Kirby (Nick's school chum and string arranger on his first two albums) worked with Nick's songs:  `...his arrangements remain an integral part of the distinctive sound of Nick's debut album' - then, again from p. 94:  `...perhaps the arrangements are a tad lush'.  This sort of `playing both sides' persists throughout the book.  These are not instances of Humphries quoting the opinions of others (at least they are not presented in that way) - these are his own words.<br />The publisher, Bloomsbury, must also be taken to task, for their (lack of) editing - there are several errors in the book that have nothing to do with writing style, but everything (apparently) to do with allowing one's computer spell-check program to act as an editor.  This point may seem to be a bit picky, but in context of my other problems with the book, it merely added to my inability to appreciate it.<br />There's another review below that wisely suggests that those interested in Nick allow his music to speak for him - and this is of course the closest we can come to him, for his music came from his heart and soul.  Over the years since his death, it has become much more widely appreciated than it was in his lifetime - sadly this is the case in too many who die before their time.  There is beauty in that music.  Humphries speaks in several places of the darkness of Nick's lyrics (but, being unable to quote from them, gives no examples), that his depression was a result of an adolescent never coming into maturity, unable to cope with the world - and many of the songs were dark, without a doubt.  There were, however, many moments of light and beauty.  One only has to listen to the first track on his debut album (`Time has told me' from FIVE LEAVES LEFT) - to me, the song is one that speaks of hope and patience, of learning and recognizing the important things that are worth waiting for.  That sounds like maturity and good judgment to me.  Nick may well have been a troubled soul - but he was not without happiness, and he obviously understood and appreciated things that a person stuck in adolescence would not.<br />Near the end of the book, when Humphries is writing of the release of Nick's final four songs, and some additional material - early home recordings and alternate takes - he quotes both Nick's parents and Joe Boyd as saying that they were trying to make sure that anything they released reflected only well on Nick, that they were concerned with how he was represented, that he deserved that consideration.  I think that he deserves better than this bio - that might seem harsh, but there's simply too much contradiction and padding here.  Rather than a 270+page book, this could have been edited down to a decent magazine article.  There are a lot of facts here, but very little understanding.  If you have the opportunity to view it, check out the fine documentary A SKIN TOO FEW - it's a much more satisfying portrait of this gentle man.ic.  Humphries speaks in several places of the darkness of Nick's lyrics (but, being unable to quote from them, gives no examples), that his depression was a result of an adolescent never coming into maturity, unable to cope with the world - and many of the songs were dark, without a doubt.  There were, however, many moments of light and beauty.  One only has to listen to the first track on his debut album (`Time has told me' from FIVE LEAVES LEFT) - to me, the song is one that speaks of hope and patience, of learning and recognizing the important things that are worth waiting for.  That sounds like maturity and good judgment to me.  Nick may well have been a troubled soul - but he was not without happiness, and he obviously understood and appreciated things that a person stuck in adolescence would not.<br />Near the end of the book, when Humphries is writing of the release of Nick's final four songs, and some additional material - early home recordings and alternate takes - he quotes both Nick's parents and Joe Boyd as saying that they were trying to make sure that anything they released reflected only well on Nick, that they were concerned with how he was represented, that he deserved that consideration.  I think that he deserves better than this bio - that might seem harsh, but there's simply too much contradiction and padding here.  Rather than a 270+page book, this could have been edited down to a decent magazine article.  There are a lot of facts here, but very little understanding.  If you have the opportunity to view it, check out the fine documentary A SKIN TOO FEW - it's a much more satisfying portrait of this gentle man.	2003-04-03
US	47392054	R2BEUBSYTTZL45	0375504710	54302357	Nights at the Alexandra (Modern Library)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	ANOTHER STUNNING WORK FROM WILLIAM TREVOR	NIGHTS AT THE ALEXANDRA more than makes up for its brevity in the beauty of Trevor's prose - he accomplishes more in a short book like this (99 pages) than many writers can manage in much longer works.  He has an amazing ability to shine a gentle but brilliant light on his characters and their lives, giving his readers a window through which to view the story.  It is as if we were present - and it is a breathtaking experience that occurs whenever I read anything by Trevor.<br />The story here is one of love, on multiple levels - not a traditional love story by any means, but one that illuminates the various natures of love as they appear as blessings in our lives.  The story is narrated by Harry, `a fifty-eight year old provincial' as he describes himself - never married, no children.  His life is nonetheless a full one - and it is not without love.  His fondest memories, of a time in his adolescence, revolve around a woman named Frau Messinger - a beautiful English woman who is married to a much older German man.  They have come to live in rural Ireland during the dark days of World War II.  Herr Messinger's presence in the small town where Harry lives is a subject of constant speculation and no small amount of suspicion among the town's residents.  Harry's father - despite evidence to the contrary - insists that Messinger is a `Jew man', come to Ireland to escape Hitler's unimaginable persecutions.<br />Harry gets to know Frau Messinger when she asks him to run small errands for her - and he quickly becomes a sort of sounding board for the woman, who begins telling him things about her life.  One might suspect at this point in the story that the woman is looking for a lover - but as she speaks to Harry, it becomes clear that she dearly loves her husband and appreciates what he has given her.  Their marriage may not be a conventional one - the age factor, for one thing - but they are devoted to each other.  One page one, she tells the boy, `Harry, I have the happiest marriage in the world!  Please, when you think of me, remember that.'  It becomes clear as the story progresses that she means every word of this.<br />In the process and progress of the friendship between the boy and the beautiful English woman, Harry becomes aware of the many facets of the jewel of love.  His school friends see his relationship with her as one with sexual possibilities.  His mother calls the woman a strumpet and forbids him to go to the Messingers' home any more - a ban he defies, drawn by the gentle love and friendship offered him there, something that he has missed sorely in his home, where emotions are things to be constricted and never voiced.<br />Trevor's prose flows gently - the book is a quick read, even being so short - and it is sheer delight.  I could call this one of his greatest works - but it would be in crowded company, for everything I've read by this amazing writer is of the highest quality.st marriage in the world!  Please, when you think of me, remember that.'  It becomes clear as the story progresses that she means every word of this.<br />In the process and progress of the friendship between the boy and the beautiful English woman, Harry becomes aware of the many facets of the jewel of love.  His school friends see his relationship with her as one with sexual possibilities.  His mother calls the woman a strumpet and forbids him to go to the Messingers' home any more - a ban he defies, drawn by the gentle love and friendship offered him there, something that he has missed sorely in his home, where emotions are things to be constricted and never voiced.<br />Trevor's prose flows gently - the book is a quick read, even being so short - and it is sheer delight.  I could call this one of his greatest works - but it would be in crowded company, for everything I've read by this amazing writer is of the highest quality.	2003-03-25
US	47392054	RK19RMUBMQHS6	0679752617	14546790	Dr. Haggard's Disease	Books	4	7	7	N	N	OBSESSION AND PASSION, GOTHIC STYLE	McGrath is an excellent writer - as a purveyor of `modern gothic' he has few peers.  I have to agree with another reviewer that this is not his best work - SPIDER is amazing, and ASYLUM and THE GROTESQUE both rise to heights not matched here - but it has many good points, and is definitely head and shoulders above much of the gothic literature on the market today.<br />The story is set at the beginning of the Second World War, and is told by Dr. Edward Haggard to the adult son of a woman with which the doctor had an ill-fated affair - but rather than being told in words, it plays itself out in an instant, in the minds of the narrator.  Dr. Haggard sees himself as a grotesque character - his head is large, out of proportion to his body size, with a shock of wild, unkempt hair;  he walks with a limp and a stick, as a result of a hip injury sustained at the hands of his lover's husband, a fellow doctor;  he has become addicted to morphine in attempting to quell the recurring pain from this injury; and since the ending of the affair, he is prone to depression and melancholy, which are not helped by his choice of a new abode:  a foreboding house perched atop a cliff on the southeastern coast of England, in a small town that will bear the brunt of a German invasion, if one should come.<br />Throughout the story we hear Haggard attempt to reconcile the deep love and passion he experienced during the course of his affair with the pain and separation he feels after its inevitable end.  He ruminates at length on his beliefs on the nature of love, of passion, of life itself.  When a young British airman comes to his door, and turns out to be the son of the woman with whom he remains obsessed, he sees the young man's mother reborn, and quickly becomes obsessed with him.  This obsession, as it turns out, has a physiological and medical basis, as well as an emotional one.<br />The story is a dark one - and fans of McGrath's fine writing should expect nothing else - but it has many bright moments.  Many of Dr. Haggard's ideas and views on the nature of love and passion are moving, and will most likely resonate within many readers, coming close to things that they feel themselves.  The story is an unusual take on the `depression after and affair gone wrong' motif, and in the hands of McGrath, it is a memorable piece of writing - moving and disturbing at the same time.y bright moments.  Many of Dr. Haggard's ideas and views on the nature of love and passion are moving, and will most likely resonate within many readers, coming close to things that they feel themselves.  The story is an unusual take on the `depression after and affair gone wrong' motif, and in the hands of McGrath, it is a memorable piece of writing - moving and disturbing at the same time.	2003-03-25
US	47392054	RABEBZFIEPX0A	0393317013	204442221	Lamb (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	DARK AND DISTURBING	Bernard MacLavertys short novel LAMB is a great example of things going terribly wrong for someone who has the best of intentions.  The writing is flowing but intense, drawing the reader inexorably into the story  it makes this a hard book to lay aside, even for the night.  I was tempted to stay up too late to finish it.<br />Brother Sebastian (n&eacute;e Michael Lamb) is a member of the Christian Brothers, assigned to a bleak reformatory where parents bring boys they can no longer control  it is a way station on the road to troubled adult lives, although it is seen by the parents and the administration as a place of rehabilitation.  Unfortunately for the boys, the rehabilitation practiced by the headmaster and his staff in mostly made up of beatings and other forms of cruelty.  The headmaster  Brother Benedict  at one point refers to the institution as a finishing school for the Idle Poor, a telling remark that shows his contempt for those to which he supposedly ministers.  Sometimes beatings are administered to boys the headmaster knows in innocent of the transgression at hand, simply as an example to the population in general.  Its a depressing atmosphere, and it weighs heavily upon the already fragile character and emotions of Brother Sebastian.<br />There is one boy for whom Brother Sebastian feels a special, deep affinity  young Owen Kane, small for his age, quiet, and, as we learn, an epileptic.  The boy is plagued by episodes of bedwetting, and his stubborn demeanor singles him out for especially violent lessons from the headmaster.  Sebastian determines that the only way to save Owen is to take him away.  He plots this action only skeletally, acting as he is on his emotions, with his intellectual abilities taking the back seat  and this comes back to haunt the two of them as they steal away from the school and take off on the road to London.  Sebastian honestly loves and cares for the boy  this is not a story of sexual abuse by a church figure  but his increased depression, which he doesnt recognize as such causes them to be in increased danger of discovery, leading to the inevitable and very disturbing conclusion.<br />The lighter scenes, in which Brother Sebastian manages to bring some rare joy into the childhood of his young charge  and as a result into his own dark life as well  are very moving.  They give the reader hope that somehow, in some way, the Brother is successful in starting a new life with the boy, living in peace somewhere with him, as father and son.  His intentions, as I mentioned, are completely loving and honorable  the darkness in the book is not in those intentions.  There is darkness in the system that allows such a place as the school depicted here to exist in the first place, and to be managed in the manner of a prison for incorrigible criminals rather than an institution that would truly give troubled boys a second chance.ry of sexual abuse by a church figure  but his increased depression, which he doesnt recognize as such causes them to be in increased danger of discovery, leading to the inevitable and very disturbing conclusion.<br />The lighter scenes, in which Brother Sebastian manages to bring some rare joy into the childhood of his young charge  and as a result into his own dark life as well  are very moving.  They give the reader hope that somehow, in some way, the Brother is successful in starting a new life with the boy, living in peace somewhere with him, as father and son.  His intentions, as I mentioned, are completely loving and honorable  the darkness in the book is not in those intentions.  There is darkness in the system that allows such a place as the school depicted here to exist in the first place, and to be managed in the manner of a prison for incorrigible criminals rather than an institution that would truly give troubled boys a second chance.	2003-03-25
US	47392054	R1JGUK7WINXCB	0374272409	75191466	Tales of Protection	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A TREASURE TO READ AND READ AGAIN...	This is an amazing book - meticulously constructed and lovingly built, word-by-word and scene-by-scene.  The premise intrigued me when I first saw it - `...four tales about the nature of luck and circumstance (that) stand alone but are ingeniously stitched together'.  I was not disappointed in the least - I found the novel satisfying on many levels, and I know that I'll want to re-read it more than once.  There are elements that link the four parts together that are only evident in hindsight - now that I've seen at least some of them on the first pass, I'd love to re-experience the book with that knowledge in hand.  I imagine that I'll find other, more subtle links when I do that.<br />Fosnes Hansen's writing is crystalline and detailed, but it never ventures into `boring'.  The copious elements involved in each tale are there because they need to be - and they give each tale a stunning degree of depth, illuminating the richness of the characters' passions for the reader to an extent that allows them to experience how these passions consume the characters themselves.  What makes a mining engineer love his work, what breathes life into his existence - or a lighthouse keeper, or a painter, or, for that matter, anyone?  The author goes deeply into the anatomy of various subjects - geology, beekeeping, the history and function of lighthouses, painting - each time in order to more vividly illuminate the lives and souls of his characters.<br />He writes also of love, in each of the stories.  They span time from approximately the present day in the first, to the 19th century in the second, to Renaissance Italy in the third, and back to the 20th century in the fourth - and through them all are spun precious threads, like silver and gold running through a rich tapestry, linking the lives and stories together through space and time.<br />I'm afraid if I go into any more detail I'll give too much of the experience of this masterpiece away - if you enjoy writing of the highest caliber that challenges both your intellect and your memory, you owe it to yourself to devote the necessary time to this novel - it's 500 pages long, and it deserves your complete attention.  I don't think you'll be disappointed...caliber that challenges both your intellect and your memory, you owe it to yourself to devote the necessary time to this novel - it's 500 pages long, and it deserves your complete attention.  I don't think you'll be disappointed...	2003-03-15
US	47392054	R28MLIIAZ98WW5	0312285418	715491644	Looking for Mary Gabriel: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	ENTERTAINING AND EYE-OPENING	After reading some of the critics' comments (as opposed to customer reviews), I have to wonder if the same book was released to the public as was sent to the press.  I found Carole Lawrence's novel far from `stilted' and `hackneyed' - I thought it a well-written story, one that is both entertaining on the surface and potentially eye-opening for those who have not had the experience of dealing with people affected by mental illnesses.  Reading this book is an experience that could very well lead the reader to a greater understanding and empathy for those of us among us who are touched by mental disease and disability - and allow them to be treated more like human beings and less like freaks.<br />The cruelty perpetrated on Mary Gabriel in this novel - not only by the neighborhood children and her classmates, but by well-meaning but ignorant and prejudiced adults as well - is hard to watch, but it's unfortunately not too far-fetched.  `Kids can be cruel' is the excuse too often mouthed by those who would just as soon ignore the problem when it arises - but there is a lot of guilt bubbling under the surface of the Gabriel family, and it causes a lot of harm when it's ignored, or when it's dealt with in an inappropriate manner.<br />Dr. Gabriel is like many physicians of his day - suspicious of psychiatrists, seeing them as out to steal the patients of general practitioners and place the blame for the mental illness of children on the shoulders of the parents.  Dr. Landry, the psychiatrist who lives across the street from the Gabriels, is firmly ensconced in the professional beliefs of the day (the 1950s), and holds firm that Mary's mental illness is a direct result of a lack of proper attention by her mother.  Medical professionals today believe that schizophrenia and other mental disorders are caused by chemical imbalances in the brain, some of which might be hereditary.  Ironically, Dr. Landry's pronouncement that Mary's mother is to blame for her daughter's disease is - somewhat obliquely - pointing in the right direction.  However, suggesting that Mrs. Gabriel's mothering skills - or lack thereof - are to blame for her daughter's condition placed an unbearable amount of guilt on the shoulders of the mother.<br />Dr. Gabriel himself is not much more help.  Eager to keep Mary's problems `within the family', he lays far too much of the burden of her care on the shoulders of Bonita, her older sister.  The effect of this on Bonita is shattering - when something bad happens to Mary, she feels like it's her fault, that she's let both Mary and her family down.  This guilt piles higher and higher within her until it wreaks its havoc on her own psyche - it's a sad but inevitable result of placing too much inappropriate responsibility on a child.<br />The author utilizes two time planes in relating the story.  One of them is told in the first person by Bonita, and is set in the present day.  The other is told in the third person, set in the 1950s, when Bonita and Mary were children.  Even though the 1950s portion of the story is told in the third person, the author skillfully - and wisely - gives these chapters the voice and innocent outlook of a child.  The time frames alternate from chapter to chapter very effectively, allowing the reader to follow events in the present day and understand what has happened in the past that shapes them.  The characters are fully developed - and the author has treated the character of Mary Gabriel with incredible respect and love.  She is believably depicted as a schizophrenic patient, and the scenes involving her as a child are heartbreaking - but she is never treated as a caricature, never ridiculed by the story (although she suffers several indignities from other characters).  She comes across as her own `whole' person - and it's easy for the reader to understand how much people like her deserve more dignity than they receive in this world.<br />The tension in the story - both parts of it - builds nicely.  I thought I could see where the 1950s story was headed, but some clever (and completely plausible) twists by the author surprised me nicely.  The part of the present-day story wherein Bonita comes to terms with her sister's condition at last, and recognizes the place they have in each other's lives, is particularly moving.<br />This is a book that could be valuable to mental health caregivers - maybe not the doctors themselves, but those who meet the day-to-day needs of mental patients.  It's also a very entertaining read for the general consumer.cely.  I thought I could see where the 1950s story was headed, but some clever (and completely plausible) twists by the author surprised me nicely.  The part of the present-day story wherein Bonita comes to terms with her sister's condition at last, and recognizes the place they have in each other's lives, is particularly moving.<br />This is a book that could be valuable to mental health caregivers - maybe not the doctors themselves, but those who meet the day-to-day needs of mental patients.  It's also a very entertaining read for the general consumer.	2003-02-27
US	47392054	R3TV45S868YHT2	1573229601	238044254	God's Mountain	Books	5	8	8	N	N	HOW CAN WORDS BE SO BEAUTIFUL...?	GODS MOUNTAIN is only the second book Ive read by Erri De Luca (SEA OF MEMORY being the other)  and Im pretty sure these are the only works available in English by him.  Hes a writer of amazing talent and sensitivity.  GODS MOUNTAIN gets under the readers skin so easily  his economy of language is perfect for this story of a boys passage into manhood.<br />Montedidio (Gods mountain) is a poor sector of Naples.  The story is set in 1960  there are still fresh memories of World War II among the inhabitants (a theme that also plays an important part in SEA OF MEMORY), but there is a new, young president in America and despite the political tensions between the East and the West, there is a palpable sense of freshness and hope even amidst the poverty in which these characters dwell.  The young narrator has started to keep a diary  and the observations he makes, the things that he sees as moving and important, are very telling.  He is a special soul  he aches to become a man, but can still look back with genuine affection on the days of his childhood.  He honors his parents and the man who employs him  as well as his other friends.  He works hard and feels the glow of it in his soul.  He sees the struggle in the wrinkles of older people, and he respects them for it  and he hears the wisdom in the words they pass on to him.<br />There is a young girl named Maria who lives in the same building as his family  she is thirteen, and the depiction of their blossoming friendship and subsequent romance is rendered in such a lovely manner by De Lucas prose.  They are each reaching out to discover the nature of love  out of curiosity, of course, but also out of a burning need that flames within each of them, a need to replace the ties of love they see shredding in their own lives.  They are drawn to each other naturally and innocently  every aspect of their romance is tender and new.  Love that includes sensuality, without being driven by lust, is a beautiful thing  its a joy to see it in such grace-filled writing.<br />One of the young mans friends is an old man  a Jewish survivor of the Holocaust  who is a cobbler.  He has a workbench in the carpentry shop where the boy is employed.  The cobblers generosity  he repairs the shoes of the poor of Naples for free  as well as his wisdom and stories touch the boy deeply.  The old cobbler has a physical deformity  a hunchback  that he decides are angel wings waiting to burst forth, allowing him to fly to the Holy Land.  His belief in this  and the belief of the boy as well  make it real.<br />The boys father has given him a boomerang  a gift from a sailor friend, brought back from Australia.  The boomerang is mystical and mysterious to the boy  he practices with it every night on the roof of his building.  He practices throwing it up to the point of actually letting it go  he rightfully sees the time when he will actually allow it to fly as a turning point in his life.  He is both thrilled and frightened to see that time arrive.<br />The book reads fairly quickly  but its one that should be savored.  There is so much wisdom and LIFE contained in these pages, that it mustnt be hurried.  After all, life passes by too fast as it is<br />This is a little treasure.ing driven by lust, is a beautiful thing  its a joy to see it in such grace-filled writing.<br />One of the young mans friends is an old man  a Jewish survivor of the Holocaust  who is a cobbler.  He has a workbench in the carpentry shop where the boy is employed.  The cobblers generosity  he repairs the shoes of the poor of Naples for free  as well as his wisdom and stories touch the boy deeply.  The old cobbler has a physical deformity  a hunchback  that he decides are angel wings waiting to burst forth, allowing him to fly to the Holy Land.  His belief in this  and the belief of the boy as well  make it real.<br />The boys father has given him a boomerang  a gift from a sailor friend, brought back from Australia.  The boomerang is mystical and mysterious to the boy  he practices with it every night on the roof of his building.  He practices throwing it up to the point of actually letting it go  he rightfully sees the time when he will actually allow it to fly as a turning point in his life.  He is both thrilled and frightened to see that time arrive.<br />The book reads fairly quickly  but its one that should be savored.  There is so much wisdom and LIFE contained in these pages, that it mustnt be hurried.  After all, life passes by too fast as it is<br />This is a little treasure.	2003-02-20
US	47392054	R1V151HTK250AF	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	4	3	4	N	N	PERFECT IN SOME ASPECTS...BUT NOT IN OTHERS...	...I have to admit that I had a couple of problems with this novel.  The writing is wonderful - and the characters are developed fully and completely believably.  The `slow pace' that some of the other reviews complain about below is, I believe, a stylistic necessity in this case - the novel is, after all, set in the South in (I think) the 1970s, and things DO move more slowly in the South.  Speech is slower, lives unfold at their own paces - I've lived in the South all my life (in Texas, not in the DEEP South), and I think it's the heat and humidity as much as anything else.  I digress...<br />The novel's central character is an impossible-to-forget 12 year-old girl named Harriet Cleve Dufresnes - she and her family live in Alexandria, a small Mississippi town.  When she was just a baby, her brother Robin was brutally murdered - he was found hanging from a tree on the family property.  In the ensuing years, no one has ever been arrested or charged with Robin's murder - and his death has had a shattering effect on the lives of not only his family, but also the entire town.  Harriet's older sister Allison and their mother Charlotte spin off into their unique clouds of depression;  Harriet's father - already distant - moves to Nashville, taking a mistress (a secret everyone in town except Harriet's immediate family knows) and sending them checks through the mail;  Harriet's grandmother Edie - and her sisters, Harriet's great aunts - never mention Robin, quickly and uncomfortably changing the subject whenever Harriet tried to bring it up.  In the face of all of these varied walls of denial, Harriet - with the help of her best friend Hely - sets out to unmask the killer (she's certain the fiend is a local, not some `wandering tramp' as many believe) and bring justice to bear.<br />The events that follow this decision are depicted very clearly by the author - enlightened and enlivened by one of the most true-to-life characterizations of the actions and thought processes of a child I've read in a long time.  In the course of her investigation, Harriet runs into a string of despicable characters - gamblers, womanizers, pool sharks, drunks, rednecks and drug dealers - who all serve to highlight by contrast the innocence of her life (so far).  The first long chapters serve well to illuminate the incredible individuals in Harriet's family - her great aunts are such unique personalities.  Rather than simply describing her characters, Ms. Tartt allows them to unfold before the readers' eyes gradually, as a flower blossoms - it's a breathtaking process to experience as a reader, and it speaks volumes about the author's writing abilities.<br />Despite other reviewers' problems with the length of the story, I thought it developed nicely - and the pace definitely picks up where events demand it.  I read the book in much less time than I imagined would be the case when I started it.<br />I have to agree - in part - with those who found the wrap-up troublesome.  I felt the story just seemed to grind to a halt, rather than pulling any of the various threads together.  I didn't expect - and I don't really enjoy - a novel that tries to tie up every loose end, but I was a bit disappointed that this one came to such a screeching halt.  Still, it was an experience I found, overall, enjoyable.of a child I've read in a long time.  In the course of her investigation, Harriet runs into a string of despicable characters - gamblers, womanizers, pool sharks, drunks, rednecks and drug dealers - who all serve to highlight by contrast the innocence of her life (so far).  The first long chapters serve well to illuminate the incredible individuals in Harriet's family - her great aunts are such unique personalities.  Rather than simply describing her characters, Ms. Tartt allows them to unfold before the readers' eyes gradually, as a flower blossoms - it's a breathtaking process to experience as a reader, and it speaks volumes about the author's writing abilities.<br />Despite other reviewers' problems with the length of the story, I thought it developed nicely - and the pace definitely picks up where events demand it.  I read the book in much less time than I imagined would be the case when I started it.<br />I have to agree - in part - with those who found the wrap-up troublesome.  I felt the story just seemed to grind to a halt, rather than pulling any of the various threads together.  I didn't expect - and I don't really enjoy - a novel that tries to tie up every loose end, but I was a bit disappointed that this one came to such a screeching halt.  Still, it was an experience I found, overall, enjoyable.	2003-02-18
US	47392054	R1C8K0ZNHDW1ZC	0312420447	137039515	Homework: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	PUT IT IN PERSEPCTIVE...	...HOMEWORK is, after all, Margot Livesey's first novel.  Those of us who have had the pleasure of reading her others have come to expect high quality from her - her talent for suspense shines so very brightly in CRIMINALS and THE MISSING WORLD, and her character development and storytelling, so evident in her masterpiece (my opinion) EVA MOVES THE FURNITURE, are stunning.  HOMEWORK has its own bright moments - even for such a dark story.  The tension that is present in the family's situation - a separated father with a bright daughter who resents the presence of a new woman in his life - is brilliantly portrayed and built upon.  The psychological aspects of the story are seemingly well-researched and illuminated - and the frustration on the part of Celia (the `intruder' in her potential stepdaughter's life) - is palpable and fraught with tension, as well as the very real sense of terror that she experiences when she realizes how deeply the young girl's feelings run.  When `things begin to happen' around the house, she becomes more and more aware of the lengths to which the girl will go to make her look bad, to make her feel uncomfortable and unwelcome.  She sees Celia's presence in her father's life as a drain on the love that she wants for herself - and she will evidently go to extravagant lengths to drive Celia out of the house.<br />Livesey's prose is jewel-like in its precision - the tension in this story builds imperceptibly, almost excruciatingly so.  Comparisons have been drawn in several places to Hitchcock's films - and that's not completely inappropriate here, although I think it's much more developed in THE MISSING WORLD and CRIMINALS.  The story might not end in a manner to suit every reader - but wouldn't that be boring, if every book we read wound up exactly as we expected/wanted...?  Margot Livesey is a fine writer - and this novel is gripping and entertaining.	2003-02-18
US	47392054	R1D7HI8FCFCKGS	0060927860	422403955	Atticus: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	MORE THAN SIMPLY A MYSTERY...	ATTICUS is my second exposure to the writing of Ron Hansen (the first being MARRIETTE IN ECSTASY)  and the quality and power of his writing in both cases leads me firmly down the road to explore his other works.  This is a novel of uncommon power and grace.<br />Hansen works with words in much the way a sculptor works with clay or stone  he molds them into a shape that vividly conveys the image he holds in his mind of the characters and story.  Atticus Cody is a Colorado rancher who has made his fortune from oil discovered on his land  hes evidently not filthy rich, but hes comfortable.  Hes a man who is satisfied with modest comforts, with caring for his family  hes well-grounded.  Atticus has two sons  Frank, successful and well-respected, is a US Senator;  Scott, the younger of the two, has had a mottled life, shadowed by restlessness and bouts with depression and alcoholism.  Scott is also responsible for the death of his own mother in a car accident, some years before the events of this novel. Atticus loves both of his sons with a passion that seethes beneath the surface of his rough, man-of-few-words exterior.  The parable of the prodigal son, from the Bible, is mentioned both in the novel itself and by other reviewers  its a very apt one to apply to this story.<br />A few weeks after a Christmas gathering at his ranch in Colorado that includes Frank and his family, as well as a surprise visit from the ever-wandering Scott, Atticus receives a call from Mexico that his prodigal son has committed suicide.  Not completely surprised, but emotionally shattered nonetheless, Atticus makes the journey to retrieve Scotts body.  What he finds in Concepc&iacute;on, the small town on the Caribbean where Scott has been living, leads him to believe that his son has instead been murdered  and he sets about in his own quiet but firm way to find out exactly what has happened.<br />Beyond that, I wont go into the plot  suffice to say that Hansen gifts the reader with several twists and turns that are worthy of the finest mystery fiction.  This novel, however, is much more than simply a well-written mystery  it is a parable, infused with life, with breath, of the ties that bind us together as families, of the values that lie at the core of the very concept of family, of our humanity.<br />Hansens writing glows.  MARRIETTE IN ECSTASY amazed me  ATTICUS confirms my first impression of this fine writer.  Onwardthat Hansen gifts the reader with several twists and turns that are worthy of the finest mystery fiction.  This novel, however, is much more than simply a well-written mystery  it is a parable, infused with life, with breath, of the ties that bind us together as families, of the values that lie at the core of the very concept of family, of our humanity.<br />Hansens writing glows.  MARRIETTE IN ECSTASY amazed me  ATTICUS confirms my first impression of this fine writer.  Onward	2003-02-18
US	47392054	R2G1NFHHTH7INV	1931561109	811657718	The Secret of Hurricanes	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A JOURNEY OF PAIN AND HEALING	I stumbled across this book quite by accident a few days ago - and I'm so very glad I did.  After reading it (it's a short but amazingly fulfilling read) I've placed it with the books that have touched me the deepest in the last few years.  This is an incredibly moving account of the pain - and the healing - experienced by the narrator.  It's a story that should be read widely - it's one that can illuminate and inspire, as well as `simply' entertain.<br />I won't go into the plot of the novel too deeply - the book is a short one, and I don't want to rob the reader of experiencing it firsthand.  Set in the South, the story is told by Pearl Starling, a woman who is considered to be `odd' by those who live near her - she's pretty much a hermit, living in a trailer in the woods, weaving rugs out of scraps of clothing to support herself.  She narrates the story of her life to her unborn daughter - she knows intuitively, she feels, that the child is female.  There is much speculation in the minds of her neighbors as to the father of the child - and she's not telling.  The life that she has led, as it unfolds in her narrative, is a tragic and painful one.  Starved for love by her callous father - who continually reminds everyone how much he wanted a son - and by her mother, whose spirit has been crushed by living with a man who cares only for himself and his own needs, Pearl seeks love in other places.  She soon comes to discover that the lives into which she has stepped are far from the perfection she seeks.<br />The language in which the book is written is perfectly in tune with the narrator's situation, as well as with the time and place.  Through simple, uncluttered speech, Pearl tells her story to her daughter within her - and in doing so, allows the reader to glimpse her soul on a much deeper level.  The story of hurt laid out on these pages is a sad one - but the opportunity for the reader to see and experience the courage and fortitude with which Pearl faces her pain and reclaim her life as her own is a precious gift and an inspiration.<br />There are people in `real life' who face the pain and trauma with which Pearl is forced to deal - and there are those among them who possess all of her strength and courage and determination, and more.  I've been blessed to know one of them in my life, to love her and be amazed by her - this is one of the most moving depictions of that sort of courage I've ever seen.  Theresa Williams has written a first novel that has the power and ability to touch the reader's soul - I hope she writes many more, but this first offering is a precious gift.in and reclaim her life as her own is a precious gift and an inspiration.<br />There are people in `real life' who face the pain and trauma with which Pearl is forced to deal - and there are those among them who possess all of her strength and courage and determination, and more.  I've been blessed to know one of them in my life, to love her and be amazed by her - this is one of the most moving depictions of that sort of courage I've ever seen.  Theresa Williams has written a first novel that has the power and ability to touch the reader's soul - I hope she writes many more, but this first offering is a precious gift.	2003-02-18
US	47392054	R1MQ19LDXLPGIZ	1582432066	204151379	Bending Heaven: Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I WAS TORN BETWEEN 4 AND 5 STARS...	Choosing my rating for this volume of short stories was more difficult than I had imagined it would be.  Kane's prose flows gracefully - seemingly without effort, but we know that's not true.  Her stories and characters pour out onto the pages and into the mind and soul of the reader - these qualities led me finally to the 5-star rating.<br />That being said, these stories are all sad, or about sad people - almost unbearably so.  The characters depicted in these tales seem to share in common an inability to cope with the hand they have been dealt by life.  There is an angst in each of them that is palpable and aching - they struggle to deal with their careers, their relationships, their families, their emotions, their successes and their failures.  There are a couple of stories that deal with the publishing trade - `How to become a publicist' and `Exposure'.<br />In the latter, a writer finds herself becoming more popular later in life, and struggles to deal with the demands of her public - in particular, the need for a photograph to accompany publicity, the very idea of which throws her into a deep panic.  In `How to become a publicist', we are given an `inside' look at the colder machinations of the industry - a young woman fresh out of college, idealistic about her love of literature, seeks a job as an editor and settles for a position as a publicist.  Her enthusiasm would seem to make her perfect for the position, but she soon finds herself ground down under the weight of the colder, `practical' aspects of the task - in a rare (for this collection) glimpse of the author's sense of humor, we witness the character announce her disdain for the catchphrases we see so often in press releases and book reviews (mea culpa - I've used plenty of them myself, and I don't even do this for a living).  I'm tempted to declare this story `luminously mesmerizing', one of her `favorites'.<br />I'm certainly glad I read this book - Ms. Kane is immensely talented, and I look forward to seeing further work from her.  I just hope that on her next outing she `homes in' on some more positive and uplifting characters or characteristics.ard to seeing further work from her.  I just hope that on her next outing she `homes in' on some more positive and uplifting characters or characteristics.	2003-02-11
US	47392054	R142YMM9KQ67K9	0312169949	575145458	Same Place, Same Things: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	GREAT STORIES AND CHARACTERS	I enjoyed this volume of Gautreaux's short stories almost as much as WELDING WITH CHILDREN - his writing seems to flow effortlessly from him (but I'm sure it's hard work, as good as it is).  As with the stories in that later collection, the author infuses each tale with a gentle humor - even those stories that would be completely morose in the hands of another writer sparkle here and there with an `inner smile'.  Gautreaux never belittles his characters, never makes fun of them - but he allows the humorous aspects of their lives and situations and personalities to shine through whatever darkness fate has chosen to settle around them.  This - and his amazing character drawing skills - makes his fiction a joy to read.<br />The stories here that stood out the most for me are `Same place, same things', `The bug man', `Returnings' and `Deputy Syd's gift' - and these last two are simply amazing works.  They could stand up well alongside the writing of anyone.<br />Gautreaux has a definite gift - his novel THE NEXT STEP IN THE DANCE is on my table at home, waiting its turn.	2003-02-01
US	47392054	R2AIJIA4RJ9VNB	0553354221	722874830	Reflections in a Golden Eye	Books	5	37	40	N	N	AS DARK AS DARK CAN BE, I CERTAINLY MUST SAY...	The edition of this novel that I own is the one with the introduction written by Tennessee Williams - and that introduction makes a lot of valid points about the novel itself, the darkness that it contains (or attempts to contain - this depth of darkness burns through boundaries), and the reception it received upon its original publication.  On this last topic, it should be noted that the novel (her second) was not nearly as well received as McCullers' debut masterpiece, THE HEART IS A LONELY HUNTER.  Williams points out - and rightly so - that  `...in her second novel the veil of a subjective tenderness...was drawn away.'  What readers and critics were left with was a chilling - and compelling - portrait of six people wrecking together at a fog-shrouded emotional intersection in their lives.  It's not a pretty sight - but McCullers' incredible writing simply will not allow us (or her characters) to turn away.  The characters slam together completely out of emotional control - mainly because none of them really know themselves deeply enough to understand what they're feeling or experiencing.  It's excruciating - and fascinating - to watch.<br />The book may not have been well received critically when it was new - but time has shown McCullers' talents to be long lasting.  She is truly one of the giants of 20th century literature.	2003-02-01
US	47392054	R2VSM5RRV5M41C	0060198362	970639823	Oyster: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	WELL-WRITTEN, BUT...	I would really prefer to give this book 3½ stars - it's not as bad as the 3 star rating would indicate.  Biguenet is a fine writer - his short story collection, THE TORTURER'S APPRENTICE, which was published in 2001, simply blew me away.  I was anticipating reading OYSTER immensely on the strength of that earlier work.  The novel, however, reads like the author has turned himself down a notch.  The characters are well-developed, and the story is an interesting one - and the setting, costal Louisiana in the late 1950s, is vividly depicted.  I guess it's just that he seemed to be taking more risks with his shorter fiction, and not just for the sake of appearing to be `innovative' - there was an educated, controlled abandon about those stories that was actually rather thrilling to experience as a reader.  By comparison, the novel hit me more like a made-for-TV movie - albeit a well-made one.  Too much of it was predictable - the characters' personalities and the conflicts they engendered, as well as several of the plot turns, could be seen coming `with the headlights on'.<br />I'm sure that the author will continue to work - he's got an amazing talent, just read the short story collection if you haven't, it's breathtaking.  I'm hoping that this novel turns out to be a stepping-stone to something greater - I know he has it in him.	2003-01-15
US	47392054	RUPEHC9TVN9QG	1583913548	825909600	Fire of the Five Hearts: A Memoir of Treating Incest	Books	5	6	6	N	N	"WHAT CAN I GAIN FROM READING A BOOK LIKE THIS?"	The above question is one that, I'm sure, many a potential reader will ask upon seeing this book.  The question is a single - seemingly simple - one, but the answers are many.  Incest is a subject that makes a lot of people uncomfortable - it's something that unfortunately exists in our society (sadly, incest touches one in five children), but it's something that too many people choose to ignore, thinking that it will `go away'.  It won't - at least not without the dedication of caregivers and clinicians like Holly Smith.  The services they provide are invaluable ones - they root out this evil when it occurs; they give everything they have to reach out to its victims, giving them the care, attention and tools they need to begin the healing process; and they educate the population at large.  These are the necessary steps to rid us of this atrocity.<br />There have many books published on the subject, addressing it from various angles - I've read many of them, and most are well-intentioned, informed and well-written.  Containing many heart-wrenching, graphically detailed case histories, FIRE OF THE FIVE HEARTS, touches the heart and soul of the reader very deeply.  The author at one point asks the question that should burn in the hearts of us all in relation to these unspeakable crimes:  `Who would hurt these babies?'  In her attempts to awaken the reader to the horrors of incest, Ms. Smith has been very successful here.  Over and above this, her book is the first one I've seen that attempts to gift to the reader the understanding of the effect this sort of work has on the therapist - she's done this work for twenty years, and the cumulative affects have been devastating for her.  Imagine spending 8-12 hours a day working with cases like these, then going home to your husband and children - that's a shifting of gears that will wreak havoc on your emotional transmission.<br />As sad as many of the cases are to read, I found the book to be one that generates hope, that uplifts.  The gratitude that I feel in my heart and soul for dedicated people like Holly Smith is endless.  The author gives the reader repeated invaluable insights into the pain, depression, shame, guilt, and other emotional weights that she found herself bearing, inherited from her clients - and she gives us an inspiring glimpse at her repeated efforts to reach down, deep within herself, to find the strength and fortitude to go on.<br />The book is therefore useful to many - and many things may be gained from it.  The more people are enlightened as to the existence and incidence of incest in our society, the more they understand of its effects on its victims and survivors, the greater chance we stand of eliminating this unspeakable blight.  FIRE OF THE FIVE HEARTS should become `required reading' for professionals as well - emotional burnout is a real danger in their work, and Ms. Smith gives some personal and inspiring tips on dealing with it.uplifts.  The gratitude that I feel in my heart and soul for dedicated people like Holly Smith is endless.  The author gives the reader repeated invaluable insights into the pain, depression, shame, guilt, and other emotional weights that she found herself bearing, inherited from her clients - and she gives us an inspiring glimpse at her repeated efforts to reach down, deep within herself, to find the strength and fortitude to go on.<br />The book is therefore useful to many - and many things may be gained from it.  The more people are enlightened as to the existence and incidence of incest in our society, the more they understand of its effects on its victims and survivors, the greater chance we stand of eliminating this unspeakable blight.  FIRE OF THE FIVE HEARTS should become `required reading' for professionals as well - emotional burnout is a real danger in their work, and Ms. Smith gives some personal and inspiring tips on dealing with it.	2003-01-13
US	47392054	R3C6GOQYYFMHUR	074324088X	194299356	I Hate To See That Evening Sun Go Down: Collected Stories	Books	5	9	9	N	N	MORE BRILLIANT WRITING FROM WILLIAM GAY	Just last year, through a recommendation from author Marlin Barton (also a fine writer), I discovered the amazing work of William Gay.  I read his two novels, THE LONG HOME and PROVINCES OF NIGHT, and I stood in awe of his creative abilities, the seemingly effortless depth of his descriptive passages, and the glow of truth that shone from within his characters.  I purposefully waited a bit to read his short story collection, just to give myself a little space to `step back' and absorb the work contained here on its own merit, without considering the novels.  I was not disappointed - the stories in this volume are every bit as finely crafted as his longer works, every bit as rewarding.<br />Gay presents an amazing panoply of characters and situations here for the reader - all within the `confines' of his realm, rural Tennessee.  Several of the stories are populated by characters that also appeared in the novels - but the works here stand on their own.  The area of the country with which Gay concerns himself is a rich one - he knows it well, obviously.  No one could write like he does by simply inventing every single detail.  He is a master at his craft - I suppose becoming a writer well into his adult life allowed the `juices' to steep and age and mellow.  Whatever the process, the results are astonishingly rich - as with his novels, I found myself re-reading passages here and there, marveling at the craftsmanship they contained, at the natural flow of the words.  They seemed to roll gently and powerfully into my mind as I read, carrying me along with them.<br />There is both humor and pathos contained in these stories - along with every shade of emotion and experience that lies in between the two.  Gay's humorous passages never make fun of his characters - he has far too much respect for these people to allow that to happen.  Likewise, the touching sections never become maudlin.  The balance that he strikes is deft and skilled.  Many of these tales are dark, but even within these, there is an abundance of light to be found and experienced.  There is violence here - but there is also love and tenderness.  There is adultery and betrayal - but there is also deep-hearted, blind-force devotion.  There is family - joyous and painful scenes, just like in `real life'.<br />In the title story, we meet old man Meacham - `older than Moses', according to on character.  He has been put into a nursing home by his son, a lawyer for whom the old man sacrificed to put through law school.  He finds the nursing home to be a `factory that makes dead people', and flees to his homestead, only to find that his son has attained power of attorney over him and rented it out to family that Meacham sees as `white trash' and lazy, `all the way down to his walk'.  The old man sets up housekeeping in a tenant shack on the property and sets about to annoy Choat, now living in Meacham's house, with the perseverance of a bedbug that can neither be found nor killed.  Several of the incidents related in this story actually made me laugh out loud - and parts of it caused a stone to appear in my heart.<br />`A death in the woods', Bonedaddy...', `The paperhanger', `Crossroads blues', `Closure and roadkill on the life's highway', `Good `til now', and `My hand is just fine where it is' all deal with aspects of adultery and love - but, as with the vast array of humanity that walks this ball, it's too easy just to condemn any one of them for what they've done.  Life - and these characters, thankfully - are more complex than that.  There are good and bad aspects, strengths and weaknesses, within each and every one of us - and Gay's characters are created and drawn in such a way as to make all of these facets known to us.<br />There is murder here - `A death in the woods', `Bonedaddy...', `The paperhanger', `Those Deep Elm Brown's Ferry blues'.  There are a three of the most touching portraits of aging humans I've ever read -  `I hate to see the evening sun go down' and`Those Deep Elm Brown's Ferry blues' and `Sugarbaby'.  `The paperhanger' is also one of the most tension-filled mystery stories I've ever come across.<br />In sum, there's a bit of something here for everyone's tastes - all written with Gay's lapidarian care, all treasures.  I can't recommend this man's writing highly enough, and I can't wait for him to produce more - but I have a feeling he'll be taking his time, making sure things are just right.<br />`You hush now, Nipper...'`Those Deep Elm Brown's Ferry blues' and `Sugarbaby'.  `The paperhanger' is also one of the most tension-filled mystery stories I've ever come across.<br />In sum, there's a bit of something here for everyone's tastes - all written with Gay's lapidarian care, all treasures.  I can't recommend this man's writing highly enough, and I can't wait for him to produce more - but I have a feeling he'll be taking his time, making sure things are just right.<br />`You hush now, Nipper...'	2003-01-05
US	47392054	R180P03ESWB1L3	1566492009	252417826	Year the Colored Sisters Came to Town	Books	5	8	9	N	N	TEMPESTUOUS CHANGES SEEN THROUGH THE EYES OF A CHILD	Jacqueline Guidry - a Louisiana Cajun by birth - has taken a turmoil-rocked time, the mid-1950s in the South, and allowed us to view the events that would forever change America through the eyes of a ten-year-old child.  Her young narrator, Vivien Leigh Dubois, lives near a small Louisiana town, Ville d'Angelle, with her mother and father and her little sister Mavis (whose place in life is seemingly to continuously irritate Vivien Leigh).  The family is Catholic, and the girls attend Holy Rosary School.  They enjoy a fairly idyllic existence among their extended family and friends - but the time is 1957, and things in the American South (and the rest of the nation, of course) are about to change forever.<br />The `troubles' in Little Rock - the attempt by black children to attend Little Rock's Central High School - are of course in the news.  Since the institution of slavery in America, race has played a part in our lives that we cannot ever erase - the scars from it, even if the wounds were somehow miraculously healed today, would be with us for decades to come.  Memories retain pain suffered, even if it is buried for years - it must be faced and dealt with if we are to learn from it and pass through it.  When two black nuns arrive in the town and appear at mass one Sunday - and when the townspeople learn that they are new teachers, to work in the otherwise all-white Catholic school - fears raise their heads, tempers flare, and friendships between blacks and whites that have been (at best) tenuous for years begin to fray and snap.<br />Vivien Leigh sees the sisters' presence as a problem - she sees them as `out of place', only because that is what she has been taught, if not directly, then by example.  It is far easier for a child to come to accept change, however, than it is for adults, who have lived with their beliefs for most of their lives.  The family's housekeeper, a hard-working, honest and lovable black woman named Aussie, and her young daughter Marydale (who is the `best friend' of young Mavis) are caught up in the hard feelings and impending changes like everyone else.  The relationship between them and the Dubois family, which goes back for years, is bruised to the point of never properly healing - which, although each of the sides recognizes as a sad thing, is also seen as inevitable, something with a bad taste that the simply have to accept.<br />Guidry's characters are endowed by the author with distinct, honest and accurate voices - the rite of passage through which they are traveling takes its toll of each of them, and changes each of them uniquely.  The care and compassion - and sheer literary talent - with which the author relates this story makes this a book that anyone who wishes to understand (and we all NEED to understand) the troubled times depicted here, as well as the challenges that remain before us, should read.  It's also moving and entertaining, and I can recommend it highly.who is the `best friend' of young Mavis) are caught up in the hard feelings and impending changes like everyone else.  The relationship between them and the Dubois family, which goes back for years, is bruised to the point of never properly healing - which, although each of the sides recognizes as a sad thing, is also seen as inevitable, something with a bad taste that the simply have to accept.<br />Guidry's characters are endowed by the author with distinct, honest and accurate voices - the rite of passage through which they are traveling takes its toll of each of them, and changes each of them uniquely.  The care and compassion - and sheer literary talent - with which the author relates this story makes this a book that anyone who wishes to understand (and we all NEED to understand) the troubled times depicted here, as well as the challenges that remain before us, should read.  It's also moving and entertaining, and I can recommend it highly.	2003-01-03
US	47392054	RM7HH5RE2RSPX	0393047571	874615730	The Heaven of Mercury	Books	5	16	19	N	N	SO MANY HEAVENS...	The concept of heaven - whether one believes it exists or not - is one that has as many facets as there are souls to discuss it.  Alice Sebold depicted one vision of it beautifully and brilliantly in her novel THE LOVELY BONES - Brad Watson has given us another literary treasure that touches the reader's heart just as deeply in his first novel, THE HEAVEN OF MERCURY.<br />Watson's book is, of course, about much more than an individual's vision and experience of heaven - it is a finely wrought, rich tapestry that gives us a living, breathing view of Southern life (although so much of what its characters feel and experience is universal), one that touches on emotions and truths so deeply, yet gently, that we know them as if they were our own.  His writing is awesomely beautiful, yet honest and forthright - there is no superficiality here, and I never got the feeling that even a single word was put there to impress the reader.  Watson is telling a story that he feels in his soul - and has filled this novel with characters that are so real that their presence can be felt in the room.<br />One of the beauties of his prose is how easily it rolls along, bearing not only the story and characters, but the reader as well, along with it.  I found myself re-reading many a passage in wonder, amazed that I had traveled its length to arrive at the end, almost unaware of the journey.  In developing his characters in the reader's mind's eye, the author employs incredibly distinctive voices - distinctive not only for their speech and thoughts, but in the narrative surrounding them.<br />What seems at first to be a surreal quality to Watson's writing reveals itself, upon further consideration, to actually be more of an `ultra-reality' - people, events, emotions and settings are placed so close to the reader's perception that they seem blurred and bent, adding to the mystical/mythical qualities of the tale.  The characters' lives are seen not just through their own memories, but also through the memories of those around them, giving varied slants on events they hold in common - personal v. universal memory.  Watson's depiction of the `heaven' or `hell' we experience after death - those of specific souls often overlapping - is presented in much the same fashion.  It's a concept that might seem self-contradictory until one sees it laid out so beautifully and skillfully, in the context of the story - viewed thusly, it makes perfect and natural sense.<br />The story itself centers on the life of one Finus Bates - from his early years to the end of his life - and his life-long love for Birdie Wells.  Theirs is a deep, close friendship - and a star-crossed love.  The book follows their lives - and the lives of other citizens of the fictional town of Mercury, Mississippi - in non-chronological but perfectly sensible order, through friendships, marriages (each to another partner), trials, tribulations, and the ins and outs of everyday life.  Far from being a boring picture of mundane lives in a small Southern town, THE HEAVEN OF MERCURY is a luminous portrayal of memorable individuals living through times of great change - from the early 20th century to the present day.  As in most stories set in the South in these decades, race is definitely one of the players - and Watson tells it like it was (and is), doing so with great respect and love for all of those involved.  As ugly as some of the things that have happened around the race issue might be, they must be viewed in an honest light if we are to learn from them.  Only when we settle with the past can we advance.<br />THE HEAVEN OF MERCURY is an incredible reading experience - one that I can heartily recommend, full to the brim with amazingly good writing.  I first read an excerpt from this novel (the chapter `The dead girl') that was included in the wonderful collection STORIES FROM THE BLUE MOON CAF&Eacute;.  I subsequently read Brad Watson's short story collection LAST DAYS OF THE DOG MEN (both highly recommended as well).  The talent and promise I saw in these didn't lead me astray - this is an amazing novel (especially for a first effort), and I look forward to reading more.ommended as well).  The talent and promise I saw in these didn't lead me astray - this is an amazing novel (especially for a first effort), and I look forward to reading more.	2003-01-02
US	47392054	RCORQSRDY9N6K	1931561052	700637963	Walking Through Shadows	Books	5	7	7	N	N	STUNNING WRITING	Bev Marshall's first novel, WALKING THROUGH SHADOWS, is a breathtaking creation.  Set in a small town in rural Mississippi just before World War II, the story's obvious center is the murder of a young woman, Sheila Barnes.  Sheila is one of the most unforgettable characters I've run across in recent years - just seventeen at the time of her death, married for around a year, Sheila is uneducated but full of unconventional wisdom, which she bestows gently on those around her as their needs dictate.  She is a gift in their varied lives - and they all come to realize it in their own time.<br />Sheila comes to work at the dairy farm run by the Cotton family, and soon becomes the Best Friend of ten-year-old Annette (her caps) - the two girls grow as close as family, and at one point Annette's mother, Rowena, comments that `Annette loves Sheila like a blood sister'.  Sheila is seemingly completely without a formal education - she comes from a family of numberless children, loomed over by her brutal father.  The beatings - and other abuse - she receives from him on a regular basis are the central reason in her leaving home, to seek work and shelter at the Cottons'.  She is also possessed of a physical anomaly - a hump on her back - although she never lets it interfere with her image of herself or the way in which she attempts to live her life.  It is at the Cottons' dairy, where she works, that she meets Stoney Barnes - despite her `deformity', he falls in love with her (and she with him), and after a short courtship, they marry.  The abuse she suffered at the hands of her father continues sporadically - and Stoney is guilty of inflicting physical pain on her as well.  When he reports Sheila missing early one morning, and her body is found in the Cottons' cornfield, the investigation that ensues reveals things about almost everyone involved that each one would have most certainly preferred to be left in the dark.  The revelations strain friends and family and community - the outcome is both expected and surprising, and soul shaking.<br />The story unfolds gracefully through various viewpoints - a technique that Marshall employs extremely well.  The author endows each of the characters with a distinctive personality and - even more importantly, I think - a unique, completely believable voice.  Rather than simply describe each character to the reader, the author skillfully allows them to illuminate not only themselves but also each other.  Their narratives - which vary in length, but grow shorter and switch back and forth more in the second half of the book - overlap in both subjects and time frames, much as if the reader were privy to individual tellings of the same story, walking from room to room, eavesdropping.  There is a subtlety in Marshall's method here that is a wonder to behold - things are revealed to the reader as they are revealed to those in the story, allowing the mysterious aspects of Sheila's brutal murder to be opened like a flower.  The suspense is palpable and deftly controlled.<br />There are lessons to be learned here - as well as a story that entertains - about a plethora of subjects:  love, honor, family, pain, abuse, friendship, faith, race, healing, and more...including magic.  I'm not speaking of the type of magic that is performed on the stage - I'm speaking of the more indefinable magic that lives and breathes in the touch of a friend's hand, in the stories they share that delight and instruct, in the pain that we cause each other and in the healing we can inspire.  If this leads you to believe that this is a soporific tale, don't be deceived - this is fine writing of the highest order, and a story that reveals not only the innermost workings of its characters, but of all of us.e outcome is both expected and surprising, and soul shaking.<br />The story unfolds gracefully through various viewpoints - a technique that Marshall employs extremely well.  The author endows each of the characters with a distinctive personality and - even more importantly, I think - a unique, completely believable voice.  Rather than simply describe each character to the reader, the author skillfully allows them to illuminate not only themselves but also each other.  Their narratives - which vary in length, but grow shorter and switch back and forth more in the second half of the book - overlap in both subjects and time frames, much as if the reader were privy to individual tellings of the same story, walking from room to room, eavesdropping.  There is a subtlety in Marshall's method here that is a wonder to behold - things are revealed to the reader as they are revealed to those in the story, allowing the mysterious aspects of Sheila's brutal murder to be opened like a flower.  The suspense is palpable and deftly controlled.<br />There are lessons to be learned here - as well as a story that entertains - about a plethora of subjects:  love, honor, family, pain, abuse, friendship, faith, race, healing, and more...including magic.   I'm not speaking of the type of magic that is performed on the stage - I'm speaking of the more indefinable magic that lives and breathes in the touch of a friend's hand, in the stories they share that delight and instruct, in the pain that we cause each other and in the healing we can inspire.  If this leads you to believe that this is a soporific tale, don't be deceived - this is fine writing of the highest order, and a story that reveals not only the innermost workings of its characters, but of all of us.	2002-12-17
US	47392054	R1JBJP3B6ZP5LM	031220308X	159829415	Welding with Children: Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	N	STORIES THAT GET TO THE HEART OF PEOPLE...	Tim Gautreaux's writing is simply amazingly good.  His characters are sublimely human, and he has a knack for finding the good in all of them - even those who might be a bit unsavory.  He places them in situations that are ordinary and unique at the same time - and in those situations he finds ways to reveal things to us that allow us to learn more about ourselves. The characters learn about themselves as well, and this is a treasure to observe.  The stories here deal with joy and sorrow and all of the areas in between.  The people here are struggling to come to grips with their own families, with their work, with the people around them - and with the world in which they live.<br />In the title piece, a man attempts to assert more of a guiding influence on his grandchildren, and in the process winds up changing several aspects of his own life as well.  His trials in striving to accomplish a task given him by his wife, while sitting with his grandchildren at the same time, is presented with some of the most genuine humor I've read in a while - but it's a gentle humor, and it never belittles the characters or the situation (and this finely-tuned humor is used to good effect in several of these stories, even the more `serious' ones.<br />`Misuse of light' is a moving portrait of a man who works in a camera shop learning about the lives of his customers through the small areas where their lives intersect with his.  When someone sells a camera to his shop and he finds a roll of film in it, he develops it in order to get a glimpse into other lives.  Opening this door can, as he learns, have jarring effects - on him as well as on the lives he enters.  When he uncovers information that causes pain to the young woman who has sold him the camera, rather than abandoning his `study', he probes a bit further in order to get to a level in this past wherein she can find a bit of peace.  It's something that makes the character endearing - it's a story to restore faith.  Another story dealing with faith it `Good for the soul', in which a parish priest with a bit of a drinking problem, attempting to do a good deed (against his better judgment), runs afoul of both the law and his community.<br />`Easy pickings' details a rather inept thief's attempt to take advantage of a solitary elderly woman - rather than being a cakewalk, he finds that he's definitely bitten off more than he can chew.  There's a great deal of the above-mentioned gentle humor in this tale - and Gautreaux delivers it with tender respect, never ridiculing his characters.  `The piano tuner' is, like `Misuse of light', a finely-crafted work in which one character sets out to help another cope with the world - and does so with no expectations of any sort of reward.  It's a good example of how those among us who are a little `different' can find their niche - and a gentle lesson in showing such folks more tolerance.<br />`Resistance' is another case of one human helping another - in this instance, an elderly man, a widower, sees a need and fills it.  The little girl who lives next door is very obviously the victim of an abusive, drunk father.  When the neighbor learns that her parents are unable/unwilling to help her with her science project, he takes on the task himself - and the light he creates shines not only into her dark life, but also into his own.<br />`Sorry blood' and `Sunset in heaven' both deal with aspects of growing old.  In the former, an Alzheimer's patient is victimized by one of the lowest low-lifes you're liable to meet (and hope that you don't).  In the latter, the plight of an old man similarly afflicted opens the eyes of a middle-aged man to the possibilities in his own life.<br />`Rodeo parole' is a frightening, surreal look at a desperate attempt by prisoners to be viewed in a more favorable light by the parole board - by making themselves sitting targets for a bull enraged by repeated electric shocks from prison guards.  Its few pages explode with action.<br />My two favorites in this collection are `Dancing with the one-armed gal' and `The Pine Oil Writers Conference'.  In the former, a man on the run from (or is it `to') himself meets a woman hitchhiker as he travels west from Louisiana.  They're both looking for something - and neither is sure just what, although they think they know - and the `answers' they find aren't the ones they expect.  It makes for a very interesting and revealing encounter - both for the characters and the reader.  `The Pine Oil Writers Conference' is, for me, the gem of this book.  Gautreaux has created the classic `riddle wrapped in an enigma' with this story - an aspiring writer (a minister) attends the conference, hoping to find out if writing fiction is `the thing he does best'.  The short excerpt included in this story produced by the character for a conference workshop is so well written than it made me sorry there wasn't more of it.<br />I've never read anything by Tim Gautreaux before - but you can bet I'll be looking for his other short story collection (SAME PLACE, SAME THINGS) as well as his novel (THE NEXT STEP IN THE DANCE).  This little book was a great discovery.<br />My two favorites in this collection are `Dancing with the one-armed gal' and `The Pine Oil Writers Conference'.  In the former, a man on the run from (or is it `to') himself meets a woman hitchhiker as he travels west from Louisiana.  They're both looking for something - and neither is sure just what, although they think they know - and the `answers' they find aren't the ones they expect.  It makes for a very interesting and revealing encounter - both for the characters and the reader.  `The Pine Oil Writers Conference' is, for me, the gem of this book.  Gautreaux has created the classic `riddle wrapped in an enigma' with this story - an aspiring writer (a minister) attends the conference, hoping to find out if writing fiction is `the thing he does best'.  The short excerpt included in this story produced by the character for a conference workshop is so well written than it made me sorry there wasn't more of it.<br />I've never read anything by Tim Gautreaux before - but you can bet I'll be looking for his other short story collection (SAME PLACE, SAME THINGS) as well as his novel (THE NEXT STEP IN THE DANCE).  This little book was a great discovery.	2002-12-10
US	47392054	R26NGA68SMPAAP	0393039269	436053846	Last Days of the Dog-Men: Stories	Books	5	3	5	N	N	GOOD WRITING IS A READER'S BEST FRIEND...	...and this collection of stories - each of which deals in some way with `man's best friend' - is good writing from start to finish.  Every single story in this collection is compelling and well written - and some of them are absolute jewels. Watson's characters are drawn with care, embodying realism as well as the author's empathy for them.  The cadences of their speech - and thoughts - are perfect. Their lives are at once flawed and filled with wonderful things - rather like the lives of each of us.  Watson's use of the dogs in the stories to bind them together as a whole is a gentle and natural one - it never comes across as contrived.<br />`Last days of the dog-men' and  `A retreat' offer poignant and painful looks at how our lives can spiral downward when relationships come to an end.  As easy as it would seem for these stories to be maudlin and depressing, Watson never allows that to happen.  The humanity of his characters remains strong, even in their seemingly darkest hours - whatever we might think about them, and what actions brought them to their sorry states, they are never less than real.  `Agnes of Bob' and `Bill' are touching portraits of couples - widows and the dogs with whom they live after the deaths of their spouses. The relationships between the women and the dogs are as unique as those that develop between close friends.  `Seeing eye' gives us a glimpse of not only the practical aspects of the assistance a guide dog offers to a visually-impaired owner - Watson manages to get inside the relationship and reveals deeper aspects of it than might appear at a casual glance.  `A blessing' is a little surreal - a couple attempts to acquire a new dog, and an evident wrong turn leads them to the home of a man who is extremely odd and malevolent.<br />The only two stories I have to say that I didn't enjoy as much as the others would be `The wake' - which seemed to me to be a little `forced', and reminded me of the old song by the Velvet Underground,  `The gift' - and `Kindred spirits', in which a man tricks his friends into becoming accomplices in a crime he has committed.  Even this last story had many redeeming qualities, however - and I certainly can't dismiss the collection because of these two quibbles.<br />Watson's prose is strong and gently descriptive - so much so that I often found myself smiling at his talents, discovering that I had, over the course of a few pages, come to picture characters and whole scenes in my mind without noticing where he was leading me.  I've heard lots of good things about his novel THE HEAVEN OF MERCURY - and after reading an excerpt from it in the stellar collection STORIES FROM THE BLUE MOON CAF&Eacute;, and then the excellence contained in LAST DAYS OF THE DOG-MEN, I'm looking forward to it even more.gift' - and `Kindred spirits', in which a man tricks his friends into becoming accomplices in a crime he has committed.  Even this last story had many redeeming qualities, however - and I certainly can't dismiss the collection because of these two quibbles.<br />Watson's prose is strong and gently descriptive - so much so that I often found myself smiling at his talents, discovering that I had, over the course of a few pages, come to picture characters and whole scenes in my mind without noticing where he was leading me.  I've heard lots of good things about his novel THE HEAVEN OF MERCURY - and after reading an excerpt from it in the stellar collection STORIES FROM THE BLUE MOON CAFÉ, and then the excellence contained in LAST DAYS OF THE DOG-MEN, I'm looking forward to it even more.	2002-12-07
US	47392054	R14GY7XUOF75ZH	0452278945	371535358	Dogfight: And Other Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SOME OF THESE STORIES REALLY STAND OUT	I picked up this book after reading `Killing Stonewall Jackson', the author's contribution to the outstanding collection STORIES FROM THE BLUE MOON CAF&Eacute;.  I enjoyed what I found here, but not as much as that story - which is not to say for a moment that Knight is not a talented writer.<br />The works that touched me the most in this slim volume were `Gerald's monkey' (a terrific coming-of-age piece in which a privileged young man experiences the shock of empathizing with some of the workers at his uncle's shipyard);  `A bad man, so pretty' (another coming-of-age tale in which a young man watches his brother throw away any chances of making it in life);  `The man who went out for cigarettes' (a look at a man toiling over an excruciating, life-changing decision);  `Sundays' (one of the most painfully evocative depictions of loneliness I've read);  and `Tenant'  (in which a college professor comes to know his landlady after her death, through her German shepherd.<br />Knight's characterizations are well drawn and compelling - the people in these stories never come across as false or contrived.  I didn't find myself drawn into the action or premise of every single story - the ones mentioned above managed to do that, exerting quite a strong pull on me.  `Killing Stonewall Jackson' is, I think, a newer work, with more of a surreal quality to it than anything here - I'll definitely be inclined to check out anything I find by Knight in the future.	2002-12-04
US	47392054	R18SVJX2P9ZBOD	0826320910	19050569	Sor Juana's Second Dream: A Novel	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	A HERO'S STORY, WELL-TOLD	What a daunting task for a writer - a novel dealing with the life and work of Sor Juana In&eacute;s de la Cruz.  Sor Juana is considered by many to be the finest poet that Latin America ever produced - she is also a hero to many, and for good reason.  In her day - the 17th century - women were looked upon pretty much as chattel.  They were expected to make a home for their husband and children, to sew, to cook - and little else.  They were certainly not expected to seek an education - indeed, they were not deemed capable of benefiting from one.  Juana, from the time she was a child, knew better - she sought out ways to feed her hungry intellect from the time when she was three, tagging along with her older sister to school and insisting to be taught to read.<br />As she grew older, fame of her learning spread, and she moved to Mexico City, where she became a favorite at the court of the Viceroy and Vicereine - the attention she received there fanned the flames both of her intellect and her emotions.  She joined a religious order and took her vows believing that it was the only way to further her in her quest of knowledge, and in her pursuit of literary expression.  She didn't count on the incredibly, rabid opposition that she met - not only from the Church hierarchy, but from within her order, from other nuns who were jealous of the attention she received, and terrified of her intelligence.  She was a threat to too many people who held power.  Change frightens people - especially those who see it as a threat to their own position and influence.  There's an old saying that `absolute power corrupts absolutely'.  I think in the case of Sor Juana's persecution by the Church, one could observe that `absolute power breeds absolute paranoia'.  If she had not, finally, succumbed - at least in part - to the will of the Inquisition, she would no doubt have been martyred.  Some might say - and it's a valid observation - that, without her books, her writing materials, and her scientific and musical instruments, without any contact with the outside world, she died a martyr without being subjected to the gibbet or other tortures.  The intellectual torture of repressed expression, imposed on one who had so much to express, was a death sentence in itself.<br />Sor Juana's sexuality has been discussed in many forums - it is, after all, a valid and vital part of anyone's personality and life.  The film concerning her life - I, THE WORST OF ALL - is based on SOR JUANA, or THE TRAPS OF FAITH, by notable Mexican poet and author Octavio Paz (he being another treasure of Latin American literature), and approaches the subject of her sexuality very obliquely (I'm amazed that the film bears an `R' rating).  SOR JUANA'S SECOND DREAM, on the other hand, tackles the subject head-on, in a very open - but tasteful - manner.  The author discusses her viewpoint briefly in her afterward, with a couple of references to Paz and others - she sees their attitudes as `homophobic', that they distort truth of Sor Juana's life and work by turning a blind eye to her sensuality.  She makes it very clear that she respects Paz and his work - but that she disagrees with his assessment of Sor Juana, as well as that of some other scholars.<br />What emerges from the author's viewpoint is a very readable, engrossing work.  The sections of the novel that deal with Sor Juana's sexual orientation - her relationships with other women, her views of men in general, and the lifelong, ongoing struggles within herself - make this a very LIVING work, bringing to life the subject in a very human way.  Given the prejudice that still exists in matters of sexual orientation, one can only imagine how much this was magnified in 17th century Mexico.  Sor Juana's story is a testament to her achievements in literature and science, as well as to her own courage - courage in facing not only her accusers and enemies, but in her own psychological and emotional self-examinations.  She was an amazingwoman - an amazing human being, an amazing scholar - and she would be thus in any day.<br />The book is a long one - at over 400 pages - and goes a long way in bringing to life the everyday routine of the convent, as well as the atmosphere and intrigues in the court and Church.  The characterizations are well drawn and patiently, carefully created - none of them come across as flat or stereotyped, which is a great relief in a novel of this length and scope.  I found it to be both entertaining and enlightening - and I would recommend it to anyone interested in a story of a heroic, intelligent woman - or, for that matter, anyone in search of a good read.an - an amazing human being, an amazing scholar - and she would be thus in any day.<br />The book is a long one - at over 400 pages - and goes a long way in bringing to life the everyday routine of the convent, as well as the atmosphere and intrigues in the court and Church.  The characterizations are well drawn and patiently, carefully created - none of them come across as flat or stereotyped, which is a great relief in a novel of this length and scope.  I found it to be both entertaining and enlightening - and I would recommend it to anyone interested in a story of a heroic, intelligent woman - or, for that matter, anyone in search of a good read.	2002-12-03
US	47392054	R3AMDVS59U2VBF	1931561095	968092066	Stories From the Blue Moon Cafe	Books	5	9	9	N	N	WHAT A GREAT MENU...!	This collection is a real treat - not only did I get to check out some work by some of my favorites (both old and new), but it allowed me to discover the work of some writers I had never experienced.  Every piece is of high quality - most are short stories, but there are a couple of essays and a poem here as well.  I won't take the time (or space) here to comment on each and every entry, but I'd like to mention a few...<br />Marlin Barton's story, `Final spring', cemented my admiration for him.  I had previously read (and reviewed here) his collection THE DRY WELL - and now I can look forward to his new novel BROKEN THING, coming out in the new year.  C. Terry Cline's `S Trident' had me laughing out loud - and shuddering a little, knowing that the string of misunderstandings depicted within could actually occur.  Patricia Foster's `The girl from Soldier Creek' is a well-written, moving account of a young woman going back to the home she fled in a time of crisis.  While I found his collection POACHERS entertaining, I must say that I enjoyed Tom Franklin's `Christmas 1893' much more - I look forward to reading more from him.  William Gay's two novels - THE LONG HOME and PROVINCES OF NIGHT have simply astonished me in their power.  His short story here, `Come home, come home, it's suppertime' didn't disappoint me at all - what amazing writing!  Winston Groom's `Just a little closer to the Lord' illustrates poignantly how people can react negatively to someone who's just a bit different from them.  Silas House's `The last days' chronicles a mother's decision to return her child to his father, from whom she abducted him several years before.  Michael Knight's `Killing Stonewall Jackson' is a chilling, partially surreal look at the horror endured by those who took part in the American Civil War.  Also very powerful are Barbara Robinette Moss' `Blackbird' and Brad Watson's `The dead girl', an excerpt from his novel THE HEAVEN OF MERCURY.<br />This collection has given me a lot of additions to my `to read list' - and it also kept me well entertained for the several days it took me to work my way through it.  I would heartily recommend it to anyone - it's a great way to sample to work of all of these talented writers.lot of additions to my `to read list' - and it also kept me well entertained for the several days it took me to work my way through it.  I would heartily recommend it to anyone - it's a great way to sample to work of all of these talented writers.	2002-11-18
US	47392054	R2KO0DMMTLHTBT	0385499272	535760229	Provinces of Night	Books	5	16	17	N	N	AMAZINGLY GOOD WRITING...	When I read William Gay's first novel, THE LONG HOME, recently, I had the strong feeling that I had discovered the work of someone very special - and reading PROVINCES OF NIGHT has confirmed that for me.  Gay writes with a carefully and languidly - the breadth and depth of his writing demands full attention from the reader, and the rewards are great indeed.<br />The above-mentioned languid quality of his work does not for a single moment indicate any sort of laziness on his part - writing this good can, of course, come from the foundation of a natural talent, but it takes hard and diligent work to come up with a finished product of this quality.  Gay's characters are vivid and real, and they are built up slowly - the reader is required to get to know them, rather than having them dumped off the page and into their lap.  His descriptive abilities are astonishing as well - if there isn't a word that suits the image he's trying to get across, he's not above combining existing words into a single unit, and he does so with taste, style and intelligence.  There are no cheap, easy gimmicks at work here - just talent and imagination.<br />Set in the same small rural Tennessee town in which his earlier novel takes place - but in the 1950s this time, as opposed to the 1940s - Gay captures the setting and characters with absolute perfection.  His country folk are depicted honestly - they are uneducated, to be sure, and some of them are certainly not the brightest match in the box, but he treats them with respect.  They come across as honest and real - the figures of speech they employ might seem odd to city dwellers, and their knowledge of the world outside of their area ranges from non-existent to a shadowy grey awareness that is tempered liberally with misinformation and rumor.  They look upon outsiders with doubt and suspicion - and usually for good reason.<br />The relationship that develops over the course of the story between E. W. Bloodworth - an elderly man who left the area, his wife and family, many years before - and his grandson Fleming, whom he has never seen is one of the most touching depictions I've come across in some time, without ever venturing anywhere near the maudlin.  The Bloodworth clan - and their neighbors and acquaintances - are a pretty rough-hewn lot.  They number among their members bootleggers, drunks, hell-raisers, stand-by-your-man women and I-ain't-takin-any-more-of-your-BS women.  Fleming is a pretty intelligent - if uneducated - young man, and he is instantly attracted to his grandfather's personality and stories of his life.  E. F. is a banjo player and singer, a collector of old tunes - mostly blues.  His fame actually spread to the point of a record label recording eight of his songs - but he never chose to pursue music as a career.  It simply meant too much to him.<br />When E. F. decides to return home after many years away, he stirs the stew of a lot of family members and other locals - he's not exactly welcomed back by everyone with open arms.  One of his sons, in particular, Brady, is downright hostile.  Brady is quite a piece of work himself, living with his elderly mother (E. F.'s wife) and casting spells and hexes on any and all who cross him.  He's looked upon by the locals as a bit of a curiosity and a crackpot - but at the same time, with enough trepidation that they try not to wind up on his bad side.<br />There's a whole cast of memorable characters here - and a main plot with several related subplots that whirl and eddy around each other like currents in a stream.  Definitely enough to keep the reader involved and interested.  William Gay is a writer of amazing talent and patience - if you're a fan of well-written, compelling fiction that contains emotion as well as a gentle dose of humor now and then, you owe it to yourself to check out his work.  My next stop is his short story collection, I HATE TO SEE THAT EVENING SUN GO DOWN.e area, his wife and family, many years before - and his grandson Fleming, whom he has never seen is one of the most touching depictions I've come across in some time, without ever venturing anywhere near the maudlin.  The Bloodworth clan - and their neighbors and acquaintances - are a pretty rough-hewn lot.  They number among their members bootleggers, drunks, hell-raisers, stand-by-your-man women and I-ain't-takin-any-more-of-your-BS women.  Fleming is a pretty intelligent - if uneducated - young man, and he is instantly attracted to his grandfather's personality and stories of his life.  E. F. is a banjo player and singer, a collector of old tunes - mostly blues.  His fame actually spread to the point of a record label recording eight of his songs - but he never chose to pursue music as a career.  It simply meant too much to him.<br />When E. F. decides to return home after many years away, he stirs the stew of a lot of family members and other locals - he's not exactly welcomed back by everyone with open arms.  One of his sons, in particular, Brady, is downright hostile.  Brady is quite a piece of work himself, living with his elderly mother (E. F.'s wife) and casting spells and hexes on any and all who cross him.  He's looked upon by the locals as a bit of a curiosity and a crackpot - but at the same time, with enough trepidation that they try not to wind up on his bad side.<br />There's a whole cast of memorable characters here - and a main plot with several related subplots that whirl and eddy around each other like currents in a stream.  Definitely enough to keep the reader involved and interested.  William Gay is a writer of amazing talent and patience - if you're a fan of well-written, compelling fiction that contains emotion as well as a gentle dose of humor now and then, you owe it to yourself to check out his work.  My next stop is his short story collection, I HATE TO SEE THAT EVENING SUN GO DOWN.	2002-11-13
US	47392054	RPXIQFA0DGOU1	0786862815	952238824	Unravelling	Books	5	12	12	N	N	GREAT WRITING FROM MANY ANGLES, ON MANY LEVELS...	This novel is a pretty amazing creation - Elizabeth Graver has created a story and characters here that are at once compelling and, although set firmly in the mid-19th century, have a lot of valuable insight for us in the present.  I picked up this book after being impressed by her newer novel, THE HONEY THIEF - and I have to say that I enjoyed this one even more than that wonderful novel.<br />The central character here, the narrator, Aim&eacute;e Slater, is, I think, the key to the book's depth.  Born in the first half of the 19th century, she is both a product of and a reaction to the age.  Her parents are good, if simple people - she and her family live on a farm in New Hampshire.  She has siblings - the closest to her in age being her sister Harriet and her brother Jeremiah.  All of the other children seem not merely to accept, but to seek the niches awaiting them in society and family - Aim&eacute;e is headstrong and independent, always questioning the `why' of things.  This trait exasperates her parents - and sets the course for her life at an early age.<br />Straining to break the stifling bonds of her household - but still holding a deep love for her parents in her heart - Aim&eacute;e embarks from the rural area where her family lives to Lowell, Massachusetts, to work in one of the textile factories that have sprung up there.  She does this against the wishes of her parents - especially her mother - but they give in to her when they realize that their hope of convincing her to do otherwise is nil.  In the city, she encounters a world she has never seen before - and at fifteen years old, she is scarcely emotionally equipped to cope with it, despite what she may think.  Like many other young girls away from home for the first time, in a time when sexuality and eroticism were repressed to the point of complete non-discussion, she is left by her first love affair pregnant and alone.  Her mother makes no secret about being completely shamed by Aim&eacute;e's situation - but at the same time, she finds a wealthy family who agrees to adopt the babies when they are born, who will support Aim&eacute;e monetarily during her pregnancy.  After the birth of her twins, even though she has agreed to the adoption, she is devastated by their departure - it is a sadness that, along with other events she has experienced, that will color her life.<br />One of the most moving passages in the novel, for me, was the depiction of an incident of a suppressed memory from Aim&eacute;e's childhood being triggered by a scent.  When she was a girl, one Christmas, her father produced a piece of chocolate candy - a rarity - without telling her that she was meant to share it with her sister.  So taken was she by the taste and scent of the treat that she popped it whole into her mouth.  Her father reacted angrily - another rarity - and forced her to spit out the candy, slapping her and calling her `a selfish girl'.  Unused to such treatment from him, the young girl was traumatized by this - only as an adult, when offered a piece of chocolate, did the scent cause this memory to resurface.<br />Another incident that casts a lasting shadow over her life - and that of her brother Jeremiah - is an instance of brother-sister `touching' that occurred in the upper loft of the barn.  As depicted in the story, I believe that it was more a result of a combination of natural curiosity, combined with the emotional repression and ignorance of the times, incestuous perhaps in one sense, but not an out-and-out case of abuse.  I say this because it didn't involve any sort of attempt by either participant to exert control over the other - both children were left very uncomfortable by it, and it never happened again.  Nonetheless, it changed their relationship forever, and it created a darkness that hovered over Aim&eacute;e long past her childhood.<br />The sense of reality with which the author illuminates both of these incidents is incredible, and done with great insight and sensitivity.  Any time events such as this are depicted in literature - or in film or on stage - in a sensitive and intelligent manner is an important step forward in society's understanding of them, and as such is extremely valuable.<br />The progress of Aim&eacute;e's life - her emotional healing and growth - is told beautifully and realistically, without dripping sentimentality. She manages not only to heal her own emotional wounds, but also to reach out and touch the lives of those around her as well - and that touch is a blessing, coming from such a source. The story is a moving and compelling one - and it is one from which the reader can come away feeling his/her knowledge augmented in relation to this process.  It is different, of course, for everyone who passes through it - but this story, of one woman's determination, pain, healing and courage, is an inspiring one, as well as being an `old fashioned' good read.  I came away from this book uplifted and moved, and very impressed with Ms. Graver's writing abilities. Her sensitivity to her characters, combined with her apparent exhaustive research into the era, make this quite an accomplishment.s such as this are depicted in literature - or in film or on stage - in a sensitive and intelligent manner is an important step forward in society's understanding of them, and as such is extremely valuable.<br />The progress of Aimée's life - her emotional healing and growth - is told beautifully and realistically, without dripping sentimentality. She manages not only to heal her own emotional wounds, but also to reach out and touch the lives of those around her as well - and that touch is a blessing, coming from such a source. The story is a moving and compelling one - and it is one from which the reader can come away feeling his/her knowledge augmented in relation to this process.  It is different, of course, for everyone who passes through it - but this story, of one woman's determination, pain, healing and courage, is an inspiring one, as well as being an `old fashioned' good read.  I came away from this book uplifted and moved, and very impressed with Ms. Graver's writing abilities. Her sensitivity to her characters, combined with her apparent exhaustive research into the era, make this quite an accomplishment.	2002-11-13
US	47392054	R2QYK7J1FE4W0C	1878448919	503862002	The Long Home	Books	5	30	31	N	N	THERE'S SHOT WHISKEY, AND THERE'S SIPPIN' WHISKEY...	Shot whiskey is the type that so strong and just plain nasty that throwing it down your throat in a (hopefully) single swallow is the only way to imbibe it and survive.  Sippin' whiskey, on the other hand, while still packing a punch, is more artfully crafted, with all sorts of artful nuances there to savor - you want to take your time with it, so you can more fully appreciate the care with which it was made.  William Gay's prose is sippin' whiskey - there's a strength within that will leave you reeling, but there are so many subtleties to be found as well.<br />His characters are vivid and believable, and he brings them to life slowly, rather than burying the reader in a swamp of description.  We get to know them as we would a person in our day-to-day lives, through their actions, conversations, and what thoughts they might care to share with us - it's an experience that makes reading this novel all the more precious and amazing.  The descriptions that occur within these pages are subtle as well - his vocabulary is astonishing, and when he can't find a suitable word already in general usage, he constructs one (always to good advantage).  Time after time, reading this incredible novel, I found myself going over a passage again and again, to make sure that I wasn't imagining the creative powers at work here.<br />Gay's literary gifts are amazing - but he never uses them in such a way as to overpower his characters.  The novel is set in rural Tennessee in the 1940s - and that time and place is firmly established within the first few pages.  I felt transported as I read it.  Gay lives in Hohenwald, Tennessee - and his knowledge of the area and the people, and his obvious empathy toward them, give his fiction a sense of reality that is both gentle and ferocious.<br />Dirt farmers, laborers, bootleggers, lawmen (both honest and crooked), women and men old before their time, young people aching for something - anything - more than what they see around them, what they see as their future if they remain where they are.  The story here is basically an old one - that of an evil presence in the midst of normalcy, ignored or tolerated by most of the citizens in the area, that slowly establishes itself as a power not to be questioned without dire retribution.  What's the old saying?  `Absolute power corrupts absolutely' - the mighty tend to fall mighty hard, and they seldom see it coming.  The evil character in this novel - one Dallas Hardin, bootlegger, honkytonk operator, would-be pimp and many more unsavory occupations - is one of the most memorable baddies I've come across in some time.  The evil within him is made palpable - you can feel it in the air, it will make your skin crawl - by William Gay's skill.<br />I've already started reading his second novel, and I've got my eye on his collected short stories as well.  Gay's work was recommended to me by another author - and it's a recommendation for which I'll be grateful for a long, long time.  This is high magick.ee as their future if they remain where they are.  The story here is basically an old one - that of an evil presence in the midst of normalcy, ignored or tolerated by most of the citizens in the area, that slowly establishes itself as a power not to be questioned without dire retribution.  What's the old saying?  `Absolute power corrupts absolutely' - the mighty tend to fall mighty hard, and they seldom see it coming.  The evil character in this novel - one Dallas Hardin, bootlegger, honkytonk operator, would-be pimp and many more unsavory occupations - is one of the most memorable baddies I've come across in some time.  The evil within him is made palpable - you can feel it in the air, it will make your skin crawl - by William Gay's skill.<br />I've already started reading his second novel, and I've got my eye on his collected short stories as well.  Gay's work was recommended to me by another author - and it's a recommendation for which I'll be grateful for a long, long time.  This is high magick.	2002-11-02
US	47392054	R2M6DJEDNZQY6C	0688167403	105963786	Poachers: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	AH...THE GENTEEL SOUTH...	...you won't be finding THAT here - what you WILL find, however, are some incredibly well-written short stories that are filled with characters that make the little hairs on the back of your neck stand up and say `howdy'.  I was directed to this author after writing a review for Marlin Barton's (even better) collection THE DRY WELL - I like Barton's style better, but Franklin is a craftsman as well.<br />The notes on the dust cover state that `The world of POACHERS is dark, brutal, without redemption, a place most of us have never seen.'  Thank God for that - and what a blessing it is to be able to experience that world in such living, breathing detail.  Tom Franklin grew up in south Alabama - he knows his subjects well.  His introduction to this volume, entitled `hunting years', is a moving and revealing as any of the stories collected here.  In it, he speaks of the rites of passage through which he traveled, of his deep desire to please his father, to be viewed favorably `as a man' in his eyes - he writes the intro from the perspective of a trip back to his old stomping grounds, with a nostalgia that is poignant and heartfelt, without stepping off the shelf into the maudlin.  It's a thoughtfully written and valuable beginning for the reader about to take the journey through the book.<br />There are mean people here.  The lead-off story, `Grit', presents a `collection man' for a loanshark/bookie, a fellow aptly named Snakebite who, it is rumored, once cut off a debtor's toes with a pair of wirecutters.  I think you can get the picture - these are not the type of people that most of us hang out with, but they're out there in the world and they're real.  Franklin's prose - and his ability to create such a palpable sense of time and place and mood - bring them vividly to life.  It says a lot for his writing talents that I can't remember reading a novel or a group of stories populated by such despicable personages and enjoying it as much as I did this one.<br />The title novella, the last piece in the collection, is one of the most singularly frightening pieces of writing I've come across in some time.  Three brothers - lifelong poachers who keep to themselves, nervously tolerated by those who live around them - are pursued by a rabid veteran game warden, a man about whom many stories have been told over the years.  It's said that he was a poacher himself when he was a young man, and that he turned to law enforcement, from breaking the law, because he found it to be a greater challenge.  The damp, dark, kudzu-encased woodland in which this novella takes place is something I've never experienced - but it was right there around me as I read this chilling tale.<br />This is not a collection for the squeamish - but, contrary to another reviewer's opinion, I think it's too easy to write it off as a book of stories `about stupid people'.  There's a lot more going on here than that statement would indicate - and I'm glad it was recommended to me.le novella, the last piece in the collection, is one of the most singularly frightening pieces of writing I've come across in some time.  Three brothers - lifelong poachers who keep to themselves, nervously tolerated by those who live around them - are pursued by a rabid veteran game warden, a man about whom many stories have been told over the years.  It's said that he was a poacher himself when he was a young man, and that he turned to law enforcement, from breaking the law, because he found it to be a greater challenge.  The damp, dark, kudzu-encased woodland in which this novella takes place is something I've never experienced - but it was right there around me as I read this chilling tale.<br />This is not a collection for the squeamish - but, contrary to another reviewer's opinion, I think it's too easy to write it off as a book of stories `about stupid people'.  There's a lot more going on here than that statement would indicate - and I'm glad it was recommended to me.	2002-10-28
US	47392054	R154POHUUSSTGS	0312264127	843523115	The White Bone: A Novel	Books	5	39	40	N	N	MOVING, SAD -- AND BEAUTIFUL	The key, I think, to understanding and enjoying this wonderful novel lies in the quote from author Joy Williams that appears on the back cover: `This sorrowful novel does holy work because it engages us in that holiest of acts - empathy'.  Rarely have I come across a creation as beautiful as this book - or as sad.  The reviewers below who take issue with the `lack of plot' and the mourning that seems to occur on every other page should stop for just a moment and think about the world in which elephants live - a world that has seemingly focused itself on their destruction as a species, all for the prize of their ivory tusks.  There are laws in place today to make an attempt to stem this slaughter - but poaching remains a constant threat, and more aggressive steps are obviously needed to save these gentle creatures.<br />The world that Barbara Gowdy has imagined in this book is not one that leaps merely from her imagination - a look at her acknowledgements at the end of the novel will reveal this.  She has definitely done her homework, and her work here has its roots in science and reality - which makes the scope of her creation all the more amazing.  She has brought to life not just the surface of the elephants' lives - she has envisioned and made very real the structures of their society, their thought processes, the various methods with which they communicate (both with each other and with members of other species), and even a vast system of mythology, embodying legends, `links' (omens, signs and folk wisdom), a vast knowledge of their natural world, and even the concept of a creative deity.  This might sound like quite a feat for the author to pull off - and it is, but she does so with breathtaking success.<br />The society of elephants is a matriarchal one - the females are the leaders and seem to be more plentiful.  The central character of the story - a young cow named Mud - is seen to go through the changes that life brings about to all species.  She is born, orphaned, adopted by another family group, and grows into adolescence and adulthood over the course of the story.  Her understanding and concept of the world around her grows and changes as her life progresses and takes shape - altered both physically and emotionally by her experiences.  She is a visionary - an elephant within the family group who is sometimes gifted with visions of occurrences in other places and times.  These events sometimes lie in the near or far future, sometimes in the present, and sometimes in the past.  There is also (usually) present within each family group a member gifted with `mind talking' - able to communicate without sound with the other group members and with other species.  When a mind talker or a visionary - or a fine-scenter or a tracker, or other specifically talented member - dies or is killed, the gift is passed on to another individual.<br />The story is not, as at least one other reviewer has indicated, plotless.  It involves the elephants' constant struggle for survival in a world where `hindleggers' (humans) are continuously a threat, slaughtering them mercilessly and in whatever numbers they can manage.  Their treatment is brutal - if you think that elephants in a circus are treated without respect, imagine them being hunted by jeeps and helicopters and slaughtered in the wild - with absolutely no discrimination as to age and size - and then cut apart by chain saws and axes, often before they are dead, in order to `harvest' their tusks, tails, feet and sometimes heads.  It's gruesome and horrifying - but it happens.<br />Gowdy's story brings this horrific treatment to life for the reader - but she also gives us a moving portrait of some of the most gentle, non-aggressive creatures on the planet.  Individuals are imbued with a distinct personality - it's as easy to get to know them as human characters in other well-crafted fiction.  The above-mentioned empathy that the novel invokes is, again, the key here.  I was drawn into this book almost immediately when I started reading it - I was afraid at first that the name structure would be a high hurdle, but the vivid personality differences (and the appropriately given names) aided greatly in clearing it.  This book wound up being one of the most moving experiences I've had with fiction in quite some time - there's a lot of sorrow and sadness here, but there is an amazing beauty to be found as well as joy and hope.o this book almost immediately when I started reading it - I was afraid at first that the name structure would be a high hurdle, but the vivid personality differences (and the appropriately given names) aided greatly in clearing it.  This book wound up being one of the most moving experiences I've had with fiction in quite some time - there's a lot of sorrow and sadness here, but there is an amazing beauty to be found as well as joy and hope.	2002-10-24
US	47392054	R33LUVI1EP5GW9	0156013908	996514530	The Honey Thief	Books	5	5	5	N	N	WHEN THE CUP OF PAIN RUNNETH OVER...	...it will manifest itself differently for every person who experiences it.  In the case of young Eva - Elizabeth Graver's engagingly and vividly drawn heroine - the manifestations include a love/hate/fear-of-loss relationship with her mother Miriam, general adolescent frustration and mistrust of the world in general, and shoplifting.  All of Graver's characters in this wonderful novel are well-drawn and emotionally full - and making them even more believable and compelling is the fact that all of them are very far from perfect.<br />As if simply passing into adolescence from childhood isn't difficult enough, Eva is coping with the fact that her dad - whom she remembers as the perfect father, but only in briefly-imaged wisps of memory - died when she was only six.  Her mother has told her from the time of his death that he suffered a heart attack - which is one of those amazingly widespread half-lies with which we as human beings become all too familiar as we pass through this life.  Eva accepts the story on the surface - but something within her tells her that there is more here than is being revealed to her.<br />Eva and her mother live in New York City at the beginning of the story - a single mom striving valiantly to raise a daughter in a less-than-ideal environment.  Her mom's best friend is an Indian woman named Ratha who lives in the apartment on the floor below - and Ratha and Mahesh's daughter Charu is Eva's closest pal.  As Eva begins to approach adolescence, she begins to evince troubling behavior - the shoplifting mentioned above, plus a tendency to argue more and more aggressively with Miriam.  After several episodes of being caught stealing, Miriam is at her wits' end - and the decision is made that a change of environment might be the best thing for both of them.  Pouring over an atlas one evening, they settle on the Finger Lakes area of upstate New York - and they pull up what roots they have acquired and make the move.<br />Eva is bored stiff living in the country.  She knows no other children her age, and the woman hired by her mom to baby-sit her (the fact of which angers Eva even further) is more inclined to sit in a chair and snore the afternoon away than to spend any quality time with her young charge.  Eva begins to explore the area on a second-hand bike that her mom buys for her - and she makes an interesting discovery.  Cycling down a dusty country road one day, she comes across a card table set up with several jaws of honey - along with a home-made sign indicating a price, and a small lockbox with a slot for payment.  Tempted to steal the honey, she holds back at first - then her curiosity gets the better of her, and she sneaks onto the property behind the card table, and discovers a row of beehives.<br />Eva soon meets Burl, the owner of the property and the hives - one of the gentlest (if flawed - he IS human, after all) characters I've run across in some time.  Burl is annoyed at first that his privacy has been breached - but he soon warms to this strange, strong-willed young girl.  He senses something about her - he senses her pain, he senses her strength, and he senses her need for a friend.<br />The unlikely and uncommon friendship that develops between these two is both poignant and sweet - it reminds me a bit of the friendship between young Clara Winter and Georg Kominsky in Alison McGhee's unforgettable novel SHADOW BABY.  It's a completely believable, generation-spanning bond that they share - and it's a joy to behold.<br />Through the course of THE HONEY THIEF, Elizabeth Graver leads the reader through the trials, sorrows and joys of these characters' lives - and down the sometimes rough road of memory.  She does so with grace, and with a total respect for these characters - and she shows an understanding for the human spirit, and the pain it can endure, that will touch the readers' hearts.in the country.  She knows no other children her age, and the woman hired by her mom to baby-sit her (the fact of which angers Eva even further) is more inclined to sit in a chair and snore the afternoon away than to spend any quality time with her young charge.  Eva begins to explore the area on a second-hand bike that her mom buys for her - and she makes an interesting discovery.  Cycling down a dusty country road one day, she comes across a card table set up with several jaws of honey - along with a home-made sign indicating a price, and a small lockbox with a slot for payment.  Tempted to steal the honey, she holds back at first - then her curiosity gets the better of her, and she sneaks onto the property behind the card table, and discovers a row of beehives.<br />Eva soon meets Burl, the owner of the property and the hives - one of the gentlest (if flawed - he IS human, after all) characters I've run across in some time.  Burl is annoyed at first that his privacy has been breached - but he soon warms to this strange, strong-willed young girl.  He senses something about her - he senses her pain, he senses her strength, and he senses her need for a friend.<br />The unlikely and uncommon friendship that develops between these two is both poignant and sweet - it reminds me a bit of the friendship between young Clara Winter and Georg Kominsky in Alison McGhee's unforgettable novel SHADOW BABY.  It's a completely believable, generation-spanning bond that they share - and it's a joy to behold.<br />Through the course of THE HONEY THIEF, Elizabeth Graver leads the reader through the trials, sorrows and joys of these characters' lives - and down the sometimes rough road of memory.  She does so with grace, and with a total respect for these characters - and she shows an understanding for the human spirit, and the pain it can endure, that will touch the readers' hearts.	2002-10-22
US	47392054	R1QOO3LANFNSIZ	0375506292	988871963	The Seal Wife: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	EXTREMITIES AS DEFINING FORCES...	Extremities define - they map out the boundaries of continents and nations, of worlds, and of our bodies.  There are several extremities at work in Kathryn Harrison's novel - and the unforgiving Alaskan weather is one of them.  The central character, a meteorologist named Bigelow, is sent to Anchorage in 1915 in order to begin recording weather data for the US government.  He is at first excited by the prospect - both by its frontier location and by his potentially pioneering work - but he soon falls prey to forces beyond his control, both in his heart and in his physical environment.<br />Bigelow finds himself both physically and emotionally hammered by the isolation enforced upon him by his surroundings.  He thinks he is prepared for the time-toppling 20-hour winter nights and the seemingly endless days of the summer months - he soon finds that he is sinking deeper and deeper into loneliness.  He finds a bit of solace in the company of a native woman - known simply as the Aleut woman, her name never being revealed to either the reader or Bigelow - and he becomes more and more obsessed with her silence.  She never speaks a word to him - the only noises he ever hears from her are her quiet moans during sex.  Rather than being driven away by this, he is drawn more and more to her because of it.  When she suddenly disappears - without an explanation of where she's going or when or if she'll return - his life is thrown into chaos.<br />He soon finds another woman with whom he becomes infatuated - she sings, accompanying the silent films that are shown periodically in a tent, projected onto a sheet.  She is as mysterious as the Aleut woman - it takes quite a bit of detective work on Bigelow's part for him to discover her name and where she lives.  When he does manage to meet her, he is struck by a strange parallel to the Aleut woman - this girl is also silent, except for her songs.  She communicates with him by way of a pencil and paper, and lets him know that she can't speak - she can sing, but only the words written by others.  She cannot even use song to communicate her own thoughts.<br />... I think that Harrison has endowed both of them with a lot of character and, in their own ways, a lot of things to say.  This is particularly true of the Aleut woman - for a character that never utters a word (none of her thoughts are ever presented, either), this reader came away with a deep sense of her personality.  She is a uniquely strong character - she lives her life as she chooses, and no one (especially Bigelow) is going to dictate what she should or shouldn't do.  The method he finally finds of communicating with her, of touching her on a deeper level, is a memorable one - I'll leave it for the potential reader to discover what that is.<br />Bigelow himself is a less-than-admirable character, albeit a sympathetic one - meaning that I didn't necessarily like him as a person, or approve of his methods of dealing with those around him, but that I could understand how extenuating circumstances (as well as what was revealed of his upbringing) had formed him into the person depicted here on these pages.<br />Overall, I found the book to be compelling and entertaining - and I thought the style with which Harrison composed the novel was perfect for the story and setting.  The author has a great gift for images:  `God exhaling clouds of geese'  (p.224);  and  `Like a key, the thought of her eluding him turns in his flesh' (p. 29).  This is great writing.speak - she can sing, but only the words written by others.  She cannot even use song to communicate her own thoughts.<br />... I think that Harrison has endowed both of them with a lot of character and, in their own ways, a lot of things to say.  This is particularly true of the Aleut woman - for a character that never utters a word (none of her thoughts are ever presented, either), this reader came away with a deep sense of her personality.  She is a uniquely strong character - she lives her life as she chooses, and no one (especially Bigelow) is going to dictate what she should or shouldn't do.  The method he finally finds of communicating with her, of touching her on a deeper level, is a memorable one - I'll leave it for the potential reader to discover what that is.<br />Bigelow himself is a less-than-admirable character, albeit a sympathetic one - meaning that I didn't necessarily like him as a person, or approve of his methods of dealing with those around him, but that I could understand how extenuating circumstances (as well as what was revealed of his upbringing) had formed him into the person depicted here on these pages.<br />Overall, I found the book to be compelling and entertaining - and I thought the style with which Harrison composed the novel was perfect for the story and setting.  The author has a great gift for images:  `God exhaling clouds of geese'  (p.224);  and   `Like a key, the thought of her eluding him turns in his flesh' (p. 29).  This is great writing.	2002-10-16
US	47392054	R2J37ZX4ZTWEUJ	1929490070	388859557	The Dry Well (Stories)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	MASTERFUL STORYTELLING	The stories in this volume capture the South at its darkest - yet at the same time they reveal the brightest sparks of the souls of the characters that have been brought to life so vividly here by Marlin Barton.  Centered loosely around a single family, they cover a wide span of time - from the Civil War to the present day.  Considering the time and place of some of the stories, it's easy to understand that there is some serious ugliness involved - but rather than play it loudly and cheaply, Barton has chosen to be more of a medium than a creator.  In his hands, the words become crystalline, allowing the reader to see effortlessly into the lives and times depicted.<br />The collection begins in (more or less) the present, with `Jeremiah's road', in which an elderly Black man sees the values to which he has clung for so many years fraying at the edges, most evident in the behavior of members of the family across the road.  In this story, as in many here, there is an aching sadness for things that are lost, things that are perceived as vital in order to make a life whole, to make sense of the insensible.  There are successes and failures - and all of the grey area in between - represented in these chronicled lives.  From `Jeremiah's road',  the title story takes us back to the time of the Civil War - but rather than being just another story of battles and bloodshed, Barton instead delicately paints a poignant portrait of a single soldier, touched by what he has seen and experienced in ways that will change him forever.  The stories continue to work their way through time, winding up with `The cemetery', set, like `Jeremiah's road', in the present.<br />Many of the stories here involve struggles between the races - struggles to understand each other, to coexist, to find a way to treat each other with respect, sometimes simply to tolerate.  There are no sermons here - right and wrong are presented in turn, and it's not always easy to tell them apart.  Hmmm - rather like life.  Barton's style is simply an amazing thing to behold.  His writing is deceptively well-crafted, allowing its complexity to be shrouded in apparent simplicity - but therein lies his craftsmanship as a wordsmith.  I think that `The minister', `Fires' and `The cemetery' moved me the most - but every single one of these stories is an absolute gem.  I can't wait to read more by this writer.like life.  Barton's style is simply an amazing thing to behold.  His writing is deceptively well-crafted, allowing its complexity to be shrouded in apparent simplicity - but therein lies his craftsmanship as a wordsmith.  I think that `The minister', `Fires' and `The cemetery' moved me the most - but every single one of these stories is an absolute gem.  I can't wait to read more by this writer.	2002-10-13
US	47392054	R3UYYAJP4IB5B6	1860468349	397725052	Two Brothers	Books	2	1	1	N	N	I HAD SOME HIGH EXPECTATIONS...	...but this short novel just didn't live up to them - I guess that's one of the problems to be expected with expectations (my apologies to Yogi Berra - that sounds like one of his expressions).  I did compel myself to go ahead and read the entire book (not long, at just over 100 pages), hoping that things would come together more to my tastes, but it just didn't happen.  There are sometimes problems with a work from another language making the transition into English - but I really don't think that's the case here.  I think it had more to do with what Ms. Costa (the translator) had to work with.<br />The only aspect of the novel that appealed to me was the device the author employed of using birds, squirrels, a snake, a star and a wild goose to relate the events - it's a good way to look at the actions and emotions of the human animal.  What was lacking - for me, at least - was any sort of insight on the part of these narrators.  There were of course comments made by them that were uniquely from their perspective, but I thought they could have been utilized more effectively.<br />After finishing the story - which, for my mind, really led nowhere - I read in the author's epilogue that he had actually re-written this novel from his early career.  Finding out, at the end of the book, that it was originally the work of an immature writer, makes perfect sense in retrospect.  He mentions that when it was published in its original form, it made little impact, and he expresses what seems to be reluctance to see it undergo re-publication and wider distribution - he sees it as a stepping-stone to his later work.  Perhaps it should have remained that, in the shadows.	2002-10-11
US	47392054	R34HGILDC2P6TN	0743417712	950153497	The Third Witch: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A FAMILIAR STORY FROM A DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW	Rebecca Reisert's retelling of the story of Macbeth from the point of view of one of the three witches is an interesting approach to this familiar tale - and one that breathes quite a bit of life into a story that many readers, having it thrust upon them as `required reading' in Shakespeare's version, should find refreshing.  The author, in her note at the end of the novel, mentions that she realized early on in her research that she could either be faithful to history or to Shakespeare, but not to both.  She chose the playwright as her touchstone, and her writing skills have drawn nicely upon the Bard's immortal sense of drama to produce a very entertaining, readable and absorbing book.<br />The `third witch' of the title is a young girl named Gilly - raised as a foundling by two older women who live in a hut in the forest.  They have a great knowledge of nature - of the animals that live in the forest, as well as the medicinal (and other) uses of the herbs and plants that grow there - and are viewed with more than a little suspicion by the peasants who live nearby.  Suspected witches are not tolerated well in mediæval Scotland - and for their own safety, they keep a low profile - but from time to time the villagers, desperate to care for or to cure their loved ones, seek them out for assistance.<br />Gilly narrates the novel - and her burning need for revenge against `Him' is made known to the reader right away, and often.  `He' turns out to be Lord Macbeth himself - and her reasons for the deep hatred that fills her and drives her on what she sees as her life's mission to bring about not only his downfall, but his death, are revealed deftly, and in due course.  I won't spoil anything for any potential readers by going into them here.  Suffice to say that she is determined and dedicated to such an extent that it frightens the two other women with whom she dwells.<br />Her adventures in attempting to accomplish this end make up the bulk of the book - and the author's writing skills, as well as her research, make the experience a very involving one for the reader.  Gilly is of an age that is a difficult time for any young person to bear - and the burden of her quest doesn't make it any easier for her to grow from a child into a young woman.  She disguises herself as a boy for much of the story - and without becoming a feminist treatise, the novel subtly allows her to make some very relevant discoveries about the treatment of women in her society.  She also comes to discover many things about herself - the rejection that she has felt for emotion (especially that of love for others, which she considers a hindrance) comes to be seen by her in a very different manner by the story's end.<br />The concept of the novel interested me when I first read about it - and I'll admit that I was a little leery of how well it could be done - but I have to say that I was thoroughly entertained and pleased with the work.r's writing skills, as well as her research, make the experience a very involving one for the reader.  Gilly is of an age that is a difficult time for any young person to bear - and the burden of her quest doesn't make it any easier for her to grow from a child into a young woman.  She disguises herself as a boy for much of the story - and without becoming a feminist treatise, the novel subtly allows her to make some very relevant discoveries about the treatment of women in her society.  She also comes to discover many things about herself - the rejection that she has felt for emotion (especially that of love for others, which she considers a hindrance) comes to be seen by her in a very different manner by the story's end.<br />The concept of the novel interested me when I first read about it - and I'll admit that I was a little leery of how well it could be done - but I have to say that I was thoroughly entertained and pleased with the work.	2002-10-11
US	47392054	R25WGBPXGPH2V4	0374514143	204422181	Terra Nostra	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A STUNNING, DIZZYING CREATION	TERRA NOSTRA stands as Carlos Fuentes' most incredible achievement -- and as one of the great books of the 20th Century. The depths and heights of Man's history swirl around the reader as a controlled maelstrom -- grab a handle and hang on for dear life. In this masterpiece, Fuentes attempts nothing less than to transfer the last 500 years or so of the New World -- including its origins in the Old -- into words. Alternately achingly real and mind-bendingly surreal, the story unfolds almost as a jigsaw puzzle falling into place before the reader's eyes.<br />As cliched as it might sound, this is truly a work that MUST be experienced by any reader who recognizes the awesome power of language in the hands of a master craftsman -- there is nothing else like it in Western literature.	2002-10-10
US	47392054	RACP1B64E3ML5	0375413022	459727896	The Ash Garden: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A MOVING VIEW FROM DIFFERENT ANGLES...	Many books - fiction as well as non-fiction - have been written around the events of August 6, 1945.  When the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, the world changed forever - and such an occurrence will be chronicled in many ways, for it touched and altered the lives of everyone on the planet.  John Hersey's remarkable HIROSHIMA comes to mind, along with many other that have appeared since.  Dennis Bock's novel THE ASH GARDEN is an astonishing, deeply moving look at the lives of three people - a German scientist who immigrated to America in order to work on the Manhattan Project;  a young Austrian girl, sent away from the horrors to come by her parents, never to see them again;  and a Japanese girl, just seven years old at the time, playing with her little brother on a riverbank, watching as a single plane approaches her city.<br />Bock's literary gifts are stunning.  His descriptive abilities are deep and varied - I found myself reading passages over again when I realized that he had, obliquely rather than obviously, made a scene appear in my mind as clearly as if I were seeing it with my eyes.  He applies this amazing talent to his characterizations as well - there are aspects of each character that are addressed directly, but many facets of their personalities and psyches are revealed more subtly, by conversations, thoughts and actions.  I found the characters portrayed here - and this is, for me, the heart of all great writing - completely fleshed-out and whole.  Each one has their strengths and weaknesses, with good and bad intentions vying within for dominance - and each one comes to know themselves as they come to know the ones with whom their lives are intertwined.  Preconceptions exist and are seen to crumble - it's a fascinating process, and one that occurs within all of us as we live our lives and interact with others.  To see it so subtly and completely reproduced on the printed page is a marvel.<br />Besides chronicling the events connected with the bombing of Hiroshima, and their consequences in the lives of these characters, the book deals very adeptly and thoroughly with the voyage of discovery that each one of them makes.  Anton B&ouml;ll, the &eacute;migr&eacute; scientist, leaves his native Germany because he sees that the German atomic program is headed down a dead end - he knows that his talents and abilities will be put to much more fruitful use in America.  He knows the horrible power that the weapon on which he is working will unleash - and he truly sees it as a necessary thing:  a way to end the war.  He also hopes, along with several of his fellows, that, once the power of this weapon is seen, there will never again be temptation to actually use it.  He hopes against hope that the US government will choose to use it on a military target - but he also knows that they will most likely pick a civilian one.  As the years pass after the war, he attends the annual rallies commemorating the event - not so much to ease his conscience as to make sure that the world knows the terrible power that the bomb carries.<br />B&ouml;ll meets Sophie in a camp for refugees in Canada - he is immediately taken with her beauty and her spirit, and he marries her, getting her out of the camp.  They move to New York City and begin their lives together - and then he is transferred to New Mexico to work on the Manhattan Project.  Their hopes for their marriage carry him through this separation, and through the time after the war, when he is sent to Japan as a scientific observer of the bomb's results.  Sophie has a more difficult time with this separation, and she deals with it - and with the pain of knowing she will never see her family in Europe again - by clinging to a new-found determination that she will live her life for herself, regardless of what those around her choose, or are compelled, to do.<br />It is while Anton is in Japan that he is moved beyond his own belief by the destruction he sees - destruction in the physical sense, to be sure, but mainly in the human sense.  He sees the burned survivors - the adults as well as the children - and he comes to know an elderly doctor, and spends much of his spare time working with the old man in the hospitals, caring for those fighting to survive.  Anton wrestles constantly - both consciously and subconsciously - with what he sees, trying to reconcile it with what he has believed about his work.  It is a struggle that will remain with him.<br />Emiko and her little brother survive the blast, although they are badly burned.  Just before the bomb detonated, she had painted a picture on the back of his white shirt, with mud, of the face of their grandfather.  The flash and heat of the bomb burned this image into his back - and many other such `tattoos' are recounted on other victims, the patterns of the clothing they were wearing marking them for life.  Emiko's brother eventually dies, but she survives, and is chosen to be one of a select few girls to be taken to American to undergo newly developed surgical techniques to restore her badly burned and scarred face.  She becomes a documentary filmmaker as an adult, and through her work and self-education about the events leading up to the destruction of her city, she comes to know about Anton B&ouml;ll and his role in those events.  She manages to meet him at a commemoration event in New York City, and arranges to interview him.<br />When the lives of these three people begin to intertwine, it is a classic case of `the whole being greater than the sum of the parts' - there are dynamics that rise up and come into play that none of the three could have imagined.  All three of them have believed that they have come to know fully the events of their lives - it is only after these versions meet and cross that they each realize that they still have things to learn and consider.  Bock's research into the history of the bomb, his appreciation of the human personality and spirit, his respect of history, and the hopes he holds for humanity - both collectively and as individuals - are bound together here by his immense skills as a writer.  THE ASH GARDEN is a book that everyone should read who wants to understand the power man has unleashed, along with its implications - and it does so without damning the bombs or the men who brought it to fruition, in an intelligent and moving way.  This book is a modern masterpiece.ure, but mainly in the human sense.  He sees the burned survivors - the adults as well as the children - and he comes to know an elderly doctor, and spends much of his spare time working with the old man in the hospitals, caring for those fighting to survive.  Anton wrestles constantly - both consciously and subconsciously - with what he sees, trying to reconcile it with what he has believed about his work.  It is a struggle that will remain with him.<br />Emiko and her little brother survive the blast, although they are badly burned.  Just before the bomb detonated, she had painted a picture on the back of his white shirt, with mud, of the face of their grandfather.  The flash and heat of the bomb burned this image into his back - and many other such `tattoos' are recounted on other victims, the patterns of the clothing they were wearing marking them for life.  Emiko's brother eventually dies, but she survives, and is chosen to be one of a select few girls to be taken to American to undergo newly developed surgical techniques to restore her badly burned and scarred face.  She becomes a documentary filmmaker as an adult, and through her work and self-education about the events leading up to the destruction of her city, she comes to know about Anton Böll and his role in those events.  She manages to meet him at a commemoration event in New York City, and arranges to interview him.<br />When the lives of these three people begin to intertwine, it is a classic case of `the whole being greater than the sum of the parts' - there are dynamics that rise up and come into play that none of the three could have imagined.  All three of them have believed that they have come to know fully the events of their lives - it is only after these versions meet and cross that they each realize that they still have things to learn and consider.  Bock's research into the history of the bomb, his appreciation of the human personality and spirit, his respect of history, and the hopes he holds for humanity - both collectively and as individuals - are bound together here by his immense skills as a writer.  THE ASH GARDEN is a book that everyone should read who wants to understand the power man has unleashed, along with its implications - and it does so without damning the bombs or the men who brought it to fruition, in an intelligent and moving way.  This book is a modern masterpiece.	2002-10-09
US	47392054	RS9E4HKQTWRBB	0880016701	492226157	Pandora's Box	Books	3	0	0	N	N	LESS SATISFYING THAN ITS PREDECESSOR...	I enjoyed Alice Thompson's first novel, JUSTINE, much more than PANDORA'S BOX.  Both novels are very imaginative and a bit surreal - but these factors were carried a little too far in this book for my tastes.  The story was interesting, but the unbelievable aspects of it were too great to be sustained by the acceptance of it as an allegory.  Perhaps it was the fact that it was set in the present day - Las Vegas, according to the jacket flap, although I don't recall the city being mentioned by name - that made it a little too hard to swallow.  For me, this sort of tale works better when its action takes place in a more ambiguous locale, or perhaps in one that's separated from reality more in space and/or time (upon making this statement, I realize that Las Vegas fits these criteria in some ways, but...).<br />Allegorical writing must by nature leave questions unanswered - otherwise it would become mere instruction or history (or both).  Even at its most fantastic, however, there has to be a certain amount of reality in which to ground the story, or it becomes totally ineffective.  I found the book to be mildly entertaining - but the characters weren't nearly as well-developed as those in JUSTINE, nor was the story as compelling.<br />Alice Thompson has definite talent - I'd love to see her write something a little less hallucinogenic.  I'll look for her next book with interest...	2002-10-07
US	47392054	R28MQVLLSK6MFT	037541309X	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress : A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A CHARMING, MESMERIZING LOOK AT A TROUBLED TIME	Dai Sijie's little novel is a masterpiece of subtlety, history, and the resilience of the human mind and spirit.  His characters are caught up in one of the most horrifying events of the modern era - the Chinese Cultural Revolution - and are challenged not only to survive in the physical sense, but in the intellectual sense as well.  They hang on desperately to their lives, their intellect and their friendship - and their story is both moving and inspiring, and not without some healthy humor.  The love story that makes up part of the plot is both a familiar and a singular one - and very touching in many ways, without being maudlin.  I read the book in a single sitting, in a couple of hours - but I plan to re-read it, taking more time with it, in order to savor the language and emotions a little further.<br />The story told here is one that is uniquely Chinese, but one that is universal at the same time.  Despite (or perhaps because of) all of the attention given to the Cultural Revolution by the media and by governments in the West, little is really known outside of China of what it was actually like to pass through this time.  This book is an invaluable look at a huge event that changed the lives of millions of people forever - a look at how grand plans made by leaders (no matter how well-intentioned) can go horribly wrong when put into action.<br />There's a mention on the jacket of this novel that it's being made into a film - after reading it, I can easily imagine it.  The writing is extremely visual - I could picture the characters and the action with little effort.  In the hands of the right director and writer, it could be done with timeless results.  I hope that the author is involved in the process - the gentle power and beauty of his language should be retained as much as possible.	2002-10-07
US	47392054	R3FUMBH622XUPL	0618081739	406173090	La Tour Dreams of the Wolf Girl	Books	5	6	6	N	N	RUNNING, RUNNING...	LA TOUR DREAMS OF THE WOLF GIRL is my first exposure to the work of David Huddle - and he's a very talented craftsman.  The transitions between present-day Vermont (and Appalachia) and 17th century France are seamless - in the hands of a less competent writer they might easily have been clumsy and disruptive to the narrative.  Huddle has a discerning eye when it comes to the human psyche and its accompanying emotional baggage, and he lays out his observations for the reader in several ways - direct, subtly oblique, and various `grey areas' in between the two.<br />We see La Tour through the eyes of a professor of art history at the University of Vermont, Suzanne Nelson.  She is writing a dissertation on the artist, and she focuses her attention - and her imagination - on a particular painting, the last one of LaTour's life.  He has chosen as his model a village girl, the daughter of the local shoemaker.  We see him strut into the village with his retinue of dogs, knowing full well how the scene will play itself out before him.  He will make his offer to the shoemaker, who will at first refuse to allow his daughter to pose in the nude for the artist (despite his advanced age and the unlikelihood of anything improper occurring), then the two will haggle over price and social considerations - and in the end, the deal will be made, and the girl will come to his villa to pose for him.  LaTour is assured that everything will happen as he imagines it - and to a point, events unfold as he predicts.  It is when the girl arrives for her first sitting, and he finds that she is both more intelligent and self-assured than he could have dreamed, that he discovers that he will indeed paint her - his advanced age and his arthritic pains had convinced him that he was merely luring her into his studio to pose for his eyes.  When she disrobes for the first time before him, and he sees that she is marked on her back with a thatch of wolf-like hair, stretching from near her shoulder blade to her spine, he is transfixed - and he is further moved to discover that she knows nothing about this unique trait.<br />As Vivienne continues to make visits to LaTour's studio, over the course of a few months, the painting progresses.  LaTour saves the addition of the wolf-patch until the last, knowing that as soon as she sees it, she will feel violated and betrayed - both by the artist and her parents.  Over the course of this time, she has come to be more comfortable in the artist's presence - he has drawn her out into conversations by posing questions to her about her daily life in the village, and she has been surprised to find herself eager to talk to him.  She also is amazed to realize, toward the completion of the painting, that she has been in effect lying to LaTour - that the stories she has told have been embellishments of reality, sometimes complete inventions.  He has taught he to lie by giving her to opportunity to do so with impunity.<br />All of this is of course a product of the imaginings of Professor Nelson - as she works on her dissertation, she allows herself to be carried away into LaTour's life and times, constructing out of the facts she knows a more complete picture of a human being, all the way down to his thoughts and motives.  All of this is colored by the events of her own life.  Her marriage of twelve years is slowly disintegrating - eroded by time and by inattentiveness (on the part of both herself and her husband).  The novel follows them from early in their lives, before they meet - the reader is given invaluable glimpses into their pasts and upbringings, allowing the forces that have formed them to be visible.  They are drawn together as inexorably as they fall apart.<br />Unlike many contrived plots wherein spitefulness and meanness - both unfortunately common human traits - play a large part in the path lives take, there is no hard-spirited ugliness at play here.  This is simply a story of lives that come together and fall apart.  There is a common thread passing through the fabric of all of these characters' lives, however - LaTour and Vivienne included - they are all running from something.  Not all of them are conscious of it, but it's there.  Suzanne and Jack are both running from the smothering influence of their parents - his are extremely wealthy, hers are from a rural area in the Appalachians.  Elly, Suzanne's acquaintance who takes Jack as a lover, is running both from and to herself - streaming away from the life she has had and toward the life she imagines she wants, all of the time actually running away from who she really is.  LaTour is running desperately from death - and Vivienne is running (at least in her dreams) from the life she leads in the rural French countryside.  Everybody wants something they don't think they have - and a few of them actually come to discover that they had more than they realized all along.<br />It is these voyages of self-discovery and longing that make this book so appealing - and the fact that Huddle has combined all of these stories into a valid whole makes this an entertaining, compelling read.rt.  There is a common thread passing through the fabric of all of these characters' lives, however - LaTour and Vivienne included - they are all running from something.  Not all of them are conscious of it, but it's there.  Suzanne and Jack are both running from the smothering influence of their parents - his are extremely wealthy, hers are from a rural area in the Appalachians.  Elly, Suzanne's acquaintance who takes Jack as a lover, is running both from and to herself - streaming away from the life she has had and toward the life she imagines she wants, all of the time actually running away from who she really is.  LaTour is running desperately from death - and Vivienne is running (at least in her dreams) from the life she leads in the rural French countryside.  Everybody wants something they don't think they have - and a few of them actually come to discover that they had more than they realized all along.<br />It is these voyages of self-discovery and longing that make this book so appealing - and the fact that Huddle has combined all of these stories into a valid whole makes this an entertaining, compelling read.	2002-10-06
US	47392054	RJBTR2EJ4L765	038533527X	591661632	Still She Haunts Me: A Novel	Books	5	17	22	N	N	AN ASTONISHING, MOVING PIECE OF WRITING...	Katie Roiphe's novel of the relationship between Charles Dodgson (aka Lewis Carroll) and Alice Liddell (for whom he wrote Alice's adventures in Wonderland and Through the looking-glass) is one of the most beautifully-written books I've read in some time.  The questions surrounding the relationship are long-standing - was Dodgson's obsession with Alice grounded in innocence or in lust (even if repressed)?  How did Alice herself view the relationship, both as it was happening and, as she grew older, in retrospect?  There is mention of a reference to Dodgson by Alice, written for a magazine when she was in her 80s, that is warm and sentimental - but even in this reference, she mentions the fact that all of the letters Dodgson wrote to her when she was a child were destroyed by her mother.  This novel might not answer these questions completely and thoroughly - how, indeed, could it do that, given the passage of time and the destruction of crucial `evidence' - but it seems that Roiphe has done her very extensive research with accuracy in mind, and the results make for an extremely readable, compelling and moving story.<br />Like any relationship that involves even a hint of the possibility of child abuse or pedophilia, there are undercurrents and subtleties swimming just beneath the surface of the more obvious events and emotions.  The story of Dodgson and Alice raises questions as questions are answered.  The mathematics lecturer met Alice and her family (her father was his dean at Oxford) when the girl was only four years old, and remained close to the Liddells until Alice was eleven, when events caused the tensions which had been simmering for seven years to boil over.  There was very obviously some degree of discomfort on the part of Alice - despite her honest affection for Dodgson and his attentions - that was harder and harder for her to contain as she approached adolescence.  As she became less and less of a little girl and more of a young woman, she found it difficult not only to reconcile her feelings for and about Dodgson, but to come to grips with the natural changes occurring within her own psyche and body - a transition that's difficult at best, challenging each of us as a rite of passage into adulthood.<br />Like another reviewer, I had some serious and deep-rooted questions about Alice's mother's ongoing reaction to Dodgson's attentiveness to her middle daughter.  She expresses misgivings about it from the beginning, mostly based on `gut' feelings and motherly instinct.  Why in the world would a mother experiencing any misgivings about another adult spending time with one of her children not look into the matter more thoroughly and take action to prevent lasting emotional damage to her child?  The answer to this perhaps lies in the age in which the events took place.  While pedophilia undoubtedly occurred then as it does now, I'm sure it wasn't given the media attention it receives today, especially considering what was considered `discussable' in Victorian England - and that's a shame, in hindsight, because we know today that open discussion of this (and other) atrocities in our society can help to prevent their occurrence as well as aid in the healing of those who have been victimized.<br />In the end, whether Dodgson's obsession was innocent or lustful, what really matters is its effect on the subject - a young girl flattered by the attentions and affections of an adult, led into a relationship that becomes `curiouser and curiouser', more and more confusing, as it progresses.  There are countless cases of children being emotionally scarred for life that began with `all good intentions'.  The novel doesn't paint Dodgson as a monster at all - but the damage done to this little girl (and to numberless others before and since), the results of his actions, is the thing by which he should be judged, not his intentions.<br />While Roiphe's wonderful novel might not address these questions directly, it certainly makes their presence in the overall scheme of the story known - they are there, just below the surface, moving the characters and story just as if they were characters themselves.  This skillful weaving of surface and subliminal plot and action is one of the things that make this such a great piece of writing.their presence in the overall scheme of the story known - they are there, just below the surface, moving the characters and story just as if they were characters themselves.  This skillful weaving of surface and subliminal plot and action is one of the things that make this such a great piece of writing.	2002-10-03
US	47392054	R3IXQ1PBVN5S83	1862073988	749801953	Shamrock Tea	Books	5	8	8	N	N	QUITE A MIND-BOGGLING BREW...	...SHAMROCK TEA, the novel, is almost as hallucinogenic as the concoction itself.  The book is a wonderful swirl of fiction, art/political/social history, philosophy, religion and Irish culture.<br />Carson takes the reader on quite a trip, with 1959 as a jumping-off place, centering around three children.  As the story unfolds, connections are made between systems of thought as well as points in space and time -- and the idea of parallel universes is not left out, either.  In the book, points in the space-time continuum is described as being similar to pages of a book -- separate, but lying very close to each other, distant and adjoined at the same time.<br />The cast of characters is immense -- besides the children mentioned above, and their guardians and teachers, appearances are made by Arthur Conan Doyle, Oscar Wilde, the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, the artist Jan Van Eyck (whose amazing painting THE ARNOLFINI PORTRAIT plays a huge role of its own in the story), and innumerable saints from throughout the history of the Catholic Church.  Everything -- and everyone -- is inter-connected, which is one of the messages of the story itself.<br />The novel is constructed in 100 chapters, each of only about 3 pages in length, and each named for a color.  The boy who narrates the story begins by describing the wallpaper in his room, along with his general sensitivity to colors in his surroundings -- and from this seemingly ordinary starting point, the reader is off on a journey that is by turns frightening and wonderful, but always fascinating.<br />I'm looking forward to reading Carson's FISHING FOR AMBER -- and, being a fan of Irish traditional music, his LAST NIGHT'S FUN as well.	2002-09-30
US	47392054	R2TJTWIE134R9Y	0312283555	306046407	Three to See the King: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	DIDN'T ENGAGE ME...	After reading THREE TO SEE THE KING, I can see a little of what people seem to like about Magnus Mills -- but this little fable/novel didn't do much to engage my interest, let alone move me on any deeper level. It's basically a re-telling (how many times has THIS been done...?) of the messiah story: people desperate to have someone else enlighten them with a better way of living, follow that someone blindly until they become disillusioned, then turn on him for 'betraying' their trust. I didn't find the narrator (never named) or any of the other characters very likable -- and most of them were downright irritating.<br />Mills seems to have some pretty capable writing skills -- I'll have to check out some of his other work. I had to force myself to finish this one.	2002-09-24
US	47392054	R1XDMDX3G1ZC1K	0375420908	875097955	Flights of Love: Stories	Books	3	6	9	N	N	NICELY WRITTEN, but...	...something about Schlink's writing leaves me personally cold -- his novel THE READER left me feeling the same way. I recognize his talent and abilities, but I just don't enjoy the paths that his fiction takes. While all of these stories deal with aspects of love, I would suggest that the word 'flights' in the collection's title refers more to the concept of fleeing from love than to the soaring heights to which it can take people.<br />It seemed to me that every single story in this collection dealt with someone's failure at love, their disappointment in it, their disillusionment with it, or their guilt about the way they had treated someone they loved. In 'The circumcision', a German man is offended when his American fianc&eacute;e refers to his 'German-ness' and remarks that her friends looked at him in this light as well. One of the characteristics she assigns to him in this regard is his cold obsession with organization. Frankly, I can see a similar trait in Schlink's work -- and please understand that's not to say that he's not a brilliant writer. I guess the worst thing I can say that he's just not my 'cup of tea.'	2002-09-23
US	47392054	R12LVSJMGAHQ8U	0965763994	165637510	Divisible by One: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	ANGST FROM THE AMERICAN HEARTLAND...?	That's exactly what you'll find here -- and in large, heavy doses.  This is an extremely well-crafted work -- I would recommend it on that aspect alone -- but don't enter into it looking for an uplifting read.  There is indeed angst a-plenty in this story -- the thin volume belies its weight -- and from every side.  I just finished reading it today, and I can't recall a character in it that was truly happy in their life.  It's a testament to the power of Lyons' talent that I was able to work my way through it.<br />Most readers might not expect a novel set in the American farmland to be so dark -- isn't this the heart of America?  Believe me, there's plenty of darkness there.  The story centers around two people -- one of them the narrator, Annie, whom we follow from girlhood into adulthood, through trials and tribulations with her parents, her relatives, and a marriage; the other her cousin, one Henry Starr, whom we see through a series of letters he writes to Annie over a period of several years.<br />Henry is seen as an outcast by his relatives.  He has abandoned his family and home after an emotional trauma -- he has discovered that Florence, the woman married to his father Amos, who has nurtured him through all of his memory, is not his real mother.  The breakdown of this wall of secrecy comes in a rush of emotion, and Henry and Florence find themselves thrown together in a way not viewed in a very favorable light by those around them.  Rumors fly, secrets are kept and told in quiet whispers, away from young ears.  Much is thought but little is spoken.<br />Annie is mystified by her cousin -- and his reputation, by word and by imagination.  She pries what little information she can from her parents and others -- and what she actually gleans offers her very little substance.  Most of what she learns of Henry comes from his letters.  After his sudden departure, he begins writing to her -- tortuous missives that seem to issue from deep within his torn soul.  His mood and psyche -- and, for that matter, those of Annie as well -- are captured in breathtakingly pure, raw fashion by Lyons.  Many of his letters contain not so much sentences but short bursts of thought -- and a lot of what seem to be rhetorical questions, but they are questions that are eating Henry alive.<br />Annie comes to feel closer and closer to Henry over the course of a few years of these one-way communications.  He never stays in one place long enough to have a return address -- or, at least, he never offers one, preferring to conduct his quest in isolation.  His quest?  To find and meet his real mother.  It takes him from one end of the country to the other and back again, through a series of misadventures, odd characters (the like of which I haven't seen since ON THE ROAD) and close shaves.<br />While all of this is going on, Annie, at home, is going through some tough times of her own.  Her husband falls ill and dies in her arms -- and Henry's letters, combined with her own pain and thoughts (as well as those around her), cause her to re-evaluate her own philosophy of life and love.  After Annie's mother dies, her father takes off to 'find his dreams' in California -- he returns some time later, and the confrontation between father and daughter is strained -- and depicted in such a vivid yet spare prose that I felt like I was in the room with them.<br />There's a word in Portuguese -- saudade.  It's considered to be literally untranslatable into English -- it means, roughly, a sense of longing, one that becomes an ache in the soul.  The story told here could, I think, be considered an American saudade -- the pain that these characters experience is that deep.<br />This novel was definitely NOT the 'feel-good book of the summer' for me -- but I'm pleased to have discovered this author's work.  He's a powerful, masterful writer.ood and psyche -- and, for that matter, those of Annie as well -- are captured in breathtakingly pure, raw fashion by Lyons.  Many of his letters contain not so much sentences but short bursts of thought -- and a lot of what seem to be rhetorical questions, but they are questions that are eating Henry alive.<br />Annie comes to feel closer and closer to Henry over the course of a few years of these one-way communications.  He never stays in one place long enough to have a return address -- or, at least, he never offers one, preferring to conduct his quest in isolation.  His quest?  To find and meet his real mother.  It takes him from one end of the country to the other and back again, through a series of misadventures, odd characters (the like of which I haven't seen since ON THE ROAD) and close shaves.<br />While all of this is going on, Annie, at home, is going through some tough times of her own.  Her husband falls ill and dies in her arms -- and Henry's letters, combined with her own pain and thoughts (as well as those around her), cause her to re-evaluate her own philosophy of life and love.  After Annie's mother dies, her father takes off to 'find his dreams' in California -- he returns some time later, and the confrontation between father and daughter is strained -- and depicted in such a vivid yet spare prose that I felt like I was in the room with them.<br />There's a word in Portuguese -- saudade.  It's considered to be literally untranslatable into English -- it means, roughly, a sense of longing, one that becomes an ache in the soul.  The story told here could, I think, be considered an American saudade -- the pain that these characters experience is that deep.<br />This novel was definitely NOT the 'feel-good book of the summer' for me -- but I'm pleased to have discovered this author's work.  He's a powerful, masterful writer.	2002-09-22
US	47392054	RQI1IQ1LIEYIO	0375411968	32157599	Burning Marguerite	Books	5	4	5	N	N	LAYES OF LIFE LIKE AN ONION, SLOWLY REVEALED...	BURNING MARGUERITE is a wonderfully-written novel that draws the reader firmly but gently into a slowly unfolding story that will touch them not only deeply but also in a lasting way.  Her characterizations are vivid and believable - her characters are likable but not perfect - and the tale and emotions are ones to which anyone can relate.<br />... Elizabeth Inness-Brown's reputation as a respected writer of short fiction is well-established.  With this book, she shows her readers - new and old - that she has enormous talents with the longer form as well.  The story - and her characters - unfold themselves before our eyes, from two very different but close perspectives.<br />Part of the story is told in the third person, viewing the life of James Jack Wright. ...<br />The other perspective from which this story unfolds is that of Marguerite herself......As with all of us, there are joys as well as tragedies through which these characters must navigate on their journeys through this life.  These joys and tragedies are universal to us all, and yet they are unique to each individual they touch - such is the nature of humanity, and it is with great skill and caring that Elizabeth Inness-Brown has translated this into the printed word.  This novel is rich and compelling, intelligent and moving - and it is a pure joy to experience writing of this caliber.  I can't recommend this novel highly enough.	2002-09-19
US	47392054	R2Q7L63IPDZKRT	0525937781	167823616	Singing Songs	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A WELL-WRITTEN STORY OF PAIN AND SURVIVAL...	...and the really sad thing is that it's a story that's repeated too often in real life (a fact that should be recognized by the number of fictional works dealing with this subject).  All of the books written around the subject of sexual abuse (and I'm not giving away anything by mentioning that -- it's obvious from the inside cover flap) are not as well-written as this, however.<br />Tilly has captured the essence of any book that sets out to tell a story from the perspective of a child -- she has found an authentic voice for her young narrator, without coming across as patronizing or forced.  Young Anna's thoughts and memories ring very true, allowing the reader to plunge into her frightening world and experience it along with her.  In the course of the story, she frequently experiences stomach cramps -- no doubt from anxiety -- and I actually felt myself feeling them in several places in the narrative.<br />One of the most heart-wrenching things about Anna's story is that, more than any other book I can remember that deals with this subject, she is subjected to abuse by so many perpetrators -- not just her stepfather (again, this is mentioned on the cover flap), but several other adults and even children more or less her own age.  The strength and determination that she shows (and that actual survivors must draw upon if they are not to remain victims for the rest of their lives) is amazing.  It hurts to read about a child being subjected to such horrors as Anna is forced to endure -- but it's an eye-opening experience for the reader.  It's also important to remember that these horrors actually happen to more children 'in real life' than most people would dare to imagine -- I think it's the great shame of our so-called 'civilization' that it happens at all.<br />Meg Tilly has shown with this novel that she's not only a talented actress -- she's a talented writer as well.  I hope, with this novel 'out of her system', she chooses to give us more tastes of this side of her abilities.of her abilities.	2002-09-16
US	47392054	R2DEKVYKQL0RCW	067091021X	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	0	1	N	N	HORROR AND BEAUTY, HAND IN HAND	Geraldine Brooks' novel YEAR OF WONDERS is a rich reading experience, one which quickly and easily transports the reader to the time and place of the story - a rural village in England, 1666 - and establishes a wonderfully varied set of characters.  It is part historical novel, part mystery, part love story - and has a strong element of the `coming of age' story about it as well, even though the central character is an adult, has been married, and is a mother.<br />The story's narrator, Anna Frith, is a simple woman - poor, but happily married and ecstatic to be a mother.  She works as a serving woman in the house of a wealthy local family, and comes to work in the home of the new minister and his wife as well.  She finds a friend in Elinor Mompellion - the rector's wife - that she will cherish for the rest of her life, a friendship that will enrich her and change her life in ways that she could have never imagined.<br />After the death of her husband in a mining accident, Anna takes in a lodger to help her with the few expenses of her life.  He is a tailor, and a decent man - she is happy to have found such a tenant.  When a bolt of cloth arrives for him from London, however, it carries with it the seeds of a disaster the likes of which Anna and the rest of the villagers could only envision in their worst nightmares of hell - the cloth is infested with fleas, which carry Plague.  The disease kills the tailor himself first, then insidiously spreads throughout the village, claiming the lives of over half of its inhabitants by the time it runs its course.  The story so well-told in this novel concerns the villagers trials at the hands of this demon - they are gripped by fear and preyed upon by not only their own superstitions and ignorance, but by those in their midst who would profit from their pain and suffering as well.<br />Anna's journey - and the journey of the other villagers - through these trying times make for a very compelling read.  There are horrors to be found here, as would be expected, but there are moments of epiphany and great joy as well.  Brooks, an experienced journalist who has covered Bosnia, Somalia and the Middle East for The Wall Street Journal, has put the observational skills she has honed in that profession to good work here - even though is it set in another era, human tragedy, suffering and happiness are universal.  The faces and the customs might change, but tears and a smile are recognizable anywhere - as are the deeper emotions of the heart and soul, which Geraldine Brooks has so aptly portrayed here.  I'll be very interested to read her next foray into fiction - and from the quality I see in her writing, I hope there are many more.found here, as would be expected, but there are moments of epiphany and great joy as well.  Brooks, an experienced journalist who has covered Bosnia, Somalia and the Middle East for The Wall Street Journal, has put the observational skills she has honed in that profession to good work here - even though is it set in another era, human tragedy, suffering and happiness are universal.  The faces and the customs might change, but tears and a smile are recognizable anywhere - as are the deeper emotions of the heart and soul, which Geraldine Brooks has so aptly portrayed here.  I'll be very interested to read her next foray into fiction - and from the quality I see in her writing, I hope there are many more.	2002-09-16
US	47392054	RJTWZZ4PWNWNW	1559706201	680182356	Stormy Weather: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	COMPELLING AND INVOLVING...AND SURREAL	Like his earlier novel THE SALT OF BITTER TEARS, Michael Meehan has, by way of his carefully constructed language, brought to the reader's reality the strange world of the Australian hinterlands of the 1950s.  The characters that fill this novel are all unique and very real -- as odd as they are, they never come off as unbelievable creations.  Also, as in his earlier work, the natural surroundings are almost a character themselves -- both the landscape and the weather (as implied by the title).<br />The reviews I've read of this novel -- as well as the jacket-flap information -- indicate that this is a partial retelling of Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST.  I have to admit ignorance of that particular work (or perhaps just a faded memory since my schooldays, take your pick), so I can't really speak to the parallels between the two.  The story herein stands well on its own, I must say -- Shakespearean shadows aside -- and is one that will, I think, remain with the reader (or in his/her dreams/nightmares) for some time to come.<br />It came to my mind that stormy weather can either isolate us with its power (and our own fear) or throw us together, forcing us to interact and leave our marks on the lives of others around us (for good or ill).  In this story, there's a bit of both, although the latter scenario is the one that wins out -- and just about everyone involved comes away from the experience a bit richer, touched and changed by those around them.	2002-09-11
US	47392054	R9IC2Q4ADJLKP	0743229258	25886827	See the Child: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A FATHER'S GRIEF	Many people have expressed the opinion over the centuries - but I believe I remember Sri Ramakrishna, a Hindu saint of the 19th century, saying that `...there is no greater pain than that of a parent who outlives a child'.  SEE THE CHILD deals with that sort of pain and grief, and does so in a deeply moving (but never maudlin) manner - with intelligence, insight, and fine writing.<br />The central character of David Bergen's wonderful novel is Paul Unger.  He lives in a small town in Manitoba, near Winnipeg, with his wife Lise, daughter Sue, and his son Stephen.  As is often the case in families (I almost added `modern', but I'm sure these tensions have been present in one form another since the dawn of civilization), there is strife between father and son.  Stephen is eighteen, and is pushing the envelope of parental control, trying to find his own way in life.  He takes up with a young French-Canadian girl, Nicole Forêt - she is beautiful, and a little too `wild' to suit Paul.  He can easily sense that she will bring pain and suffering into his son's life.  He also knows that simply telling his son what he sees in store for him will do no good whatsoever, so he feels that he has no choice but to allow the relationship to run its course.<br />One morning Paul is awakened from sleep by a knocking at the door.  It comes from the knuckles of his friend Harry, the town constable - Harry is the bearer of sad tidings indeed.  Stephen has been found dead, lying facedown in a pool in a muddy field.  He had gone to a party, gotten drunk, stumbled and fell into the shallow pool and drowned.  Paul's grief at the death of his only son is compounded by the burden of guilt that comes to rest on his shoulders, on his very soul.  Just a few days before Stephen's death, the boy had been caught breaking into the family business, in an apparent burglary attempt - and the confrontation over this incident, as well as the pattern seen by Paul emerging in Stephen's life, had resulted in an ugly argument between father and son.  Paul had sent Stephen away from the house, and when the boy returned after a short while, unable to find friends with whom he could spend the night, Paul had not opened the door to him.  This scene will come back to haunt the grieving father again and again - consciously and subconsciously - throughout the story.<br />After Stephen's funeral, Nicole reveals that she is pregnant.  Lise, Stephen's mother, is doubtful that the child is Stephen's - but Paul accepts it as the truth.  When Sky, Nicole's son, is born, Paul sees in the child a chance at redemption for himself - and a connection to the son he has lost.  Paul's journey through this stark emotional landscape and his attempts to cement a relationship between himself and his grandson, as well as with Nicole, form the bulk of the novel.  Paul's marriage suffers greatly under the weight of his grief for Stephen and the guilt that he bears - and that's an awful weight to place upon a marriage.  He soon recognizes that there is no way he's going to change Nicole into a `settled' mother for Sky - and his attempts to hang on to his relationship with the two of them are understandable and heartbreaking at the same time.<br />Bergen's characters are well wrought - ones with whom the reader can easily identify.  We have all known people like those depicted in this story - we live among them, they inhabit the towns where we dwell, as well as the families we cherish.  They are basically good people, some are just more confused than others as to how to deal with the hand they've been dealt - some make good choices, some make bad ones.  Life is a continuous lesson in itself - and this novel portrays that process in a deep, gentle way - and in a way that both illustrates and strengthens the healing abilities we hold within us.  It's a moving story, masterfully told.an ugly argument between father and son.  Paul had sent Stephen away from the house, and when the boy returned after a short while, unable to find friends with whom he could spend the night, Paul had not opened the door to him.  This scene will come back to haunt the grieving father again and again - consciously and subconsciously - throughout the story.<br />After Stephen's funeral, Nicole reveals that she is pregnant.  Lise, Stephen's mother, is doubtful that the child is Stephen's - but Paul accepts it as the truth.  When Sky, Nicole's son, is born, Paul sees in the child a chance at redemption for himself - and a connection to the son he has lost.  Paul's journey through this stark emotional landscape and his attempts to cement a relationship between himself and his grandson, as well as with Nicole, form the bulk of the novel.  Paul's marriage suffers greatly under the weight of his grief for Stephen and the guilt that he bears - and that's an awful weight to place upon a marriage.  He soon recognizes that there is no way he's going to change Nicole into a `settled' mother for Sky - and his attempts to hang on to his relationship with the two of them are understandable and heartbreaking at the same time.<br />Bergen's characters are well wrought - ones with whom the reader can easily identify.  We have all known people like those depicted in this story - we live among them, they inhabit the towns where we dwell, as well as the families we cherish.  They are basically good people, some are just more confused than others as to how to deal with the hand they've been dealt - some make good choices, some make bad ones.  Life is a continuous lesson in itself - and this novel portrays that process in a deep, gentle way - and in a way that both illustrates and strengthens the healing abilities we hold within us.  It's a moving story, masterfully told.	2002-09-05
US	47392054	R17P7ZZW2RGPWQ	1582342377	142930617	Death and Nightingales	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A PERFECT MARRIAGE OF STORY AND STYLE	Eugene McCabe's DEATH AND NIGHTINGALES absolutely picked me up and dropped me - the book was that powerful and moving.  For a novel set in 1883 in rural Ireland to transport me as a reader so quickly and thoroughly shows me the hand of a master at work.  This is an author that I am pleased to have discovered - and one whose work I will actively seek.<br />McCabe's writing style is as rough-hewn as the characters he portrays - but this is deceptive, because there are many subtleties at work here.  His descriptive abilities are staggering - but most of the story is carried along either as conversation or as revelations to the reader of the characters' thoughts.  Another reviewer commented that the author's style almost compelled the reader to create the story while reading it - and that's a pretty apt description of the `work' required of the reader to grasp the monumental achievement of this novel.  This `work' is not toil-in-vain, however - there is a great reward to putting forth a little effort here.<br />The characters are vivid and real - and the story is one that involves love, family, politics, class struggle and murder.  There is a palpable air of mystery and suspense that permeates the story, one that keeps the reader guessing, rapt until the end.  There are likable characters whose treachery lurks just beneath the surface, as well as persons who seem to be less than respectable at first glance who turn out to be made of stout moral fibre - and there are those as well who are just as they seem, so I'm not really giving anything away with these statements.  There's also one of the most unlikely heroes you're liable to run across anywhere.<br />I'd be tempted to say that this book is one of the best reading experiences I've come across in the past couple of years - I read this from the local library, but it's definitely one I'm going to want to acquire for my own collection.  This is a `keeper'.	2002-09-04
US	47392054	R1WJKZ62IGLCSM	0060611456	652356100	The Storm	Books	5	9	9	N	N	OH, THE STORMS OF OUR LIVES...	One of Frederick Buechner's most compelling talents, for me, is his ability to create characters that are profoundly real and believable.  In all of the novels by this author that I have read so far, this is a firm constant -- and one of his greatest strengths.  Whether the setting is Biblical times (as in THE SON OF LAUGHTER or ON THE ROAD WITH THE ARCHANGEL), the mediaeval British Isles (as in BRENDAN and his Pulitzer-nominated masterpiece GODRIC), or present-day Florida (as in THE STORM), Buechner's characters are brimming with a wonderful humanity.<br />THE STORM concerns the estrangement of two brothers, both now elderly.  The central character, a writer named Kenzie Maxwell, is approaching his 70th birthday -- and the storm clouds are gathering around him, both figuratively and literally.  His brother Dalton, whom he dismissed several years ago with a wish never to look upon his face again, is coming for a brief stay on the island where Kenzie and his wife Willow live.  Kenzie has never forgiven his brother for -- as he sees it -- besmirching the character and spirit of a young woman named Kia, with whom Kenzie shared a brief affair and fathered a child (before his marriage to Willow).  The affair caused a bit of a scandal at the time -- Kia was only 17, and Kenzie was already in his 50s, working at a shelter for homeless and abused children in New York City, where Kia had been a client.  Kia died giving birth to Kenzie's daughter -- and the older man has never shirked his responsibilities toward her, seeing to it that she is raised in caring surroundings, treating her with love and respect.  Part of Kenzie's anger at his brother is actually engendered by his own actions -- although he has a hard time realizing this.  I think, deep down, he feels a lot of guilt over the events himself, and has a hard time not only admitting his guilt, but coming to terms with the actions he has taken in his own life.<br />Kenzie's marriage to Willow is a sweet relationship -- one of the most gently fulfilling unions I've seen portrayed in literature.  It's not a tumultuous passion that they share -- but there is love abounding in the form of kindness, respect and support, qualities that are too often nudged aside in stories in favor of heated sexual encounters.  Their marriage is a quiet one, but strong, truly built upon a rock.<br />Kenzie is best-known as an author for a book he has written several years before, documenting the lives of various saints.  He has never considered himself to be a profoundly religious man -- he even looks with some amusement of the tactics employed by various subjects in his book in order that they might experience, reach, touch God.  As he writes the book, however, he begins to feel more of a pull himself, and winds up living the rest of his life as a quietly spiritual person -- not trying to convince others of how to live their lives, but simply trying to live his own faith through his actions.  His epiphany concerning the saints whose lives he is chronicling is expressed beautifully by Buechner.<br />Kenzie's brother Dalton -- who, after all the years that have passed, is still in the dark as to why his brother has banished him from his life -- is an intelligent, thoughtful man, an attorney, but one living with many doubts as to the value of his own life.  Like his brother's guilt, these doubts are hidden deeply below the surface and are not seen for what they are by their bearer.  He has experienced a couple of 'breakdown' episodes in his life -- and is therefore treated a bit with kid gloves by those around him.  He sometimes makes pronouncements at dinners or parties that cause people to think he's a little odd -- and he's all too aware of these 'lapses'.<br />The wealthy woman who owns most of Plantation Island in Florida, where the bulk of this story takes place, has retained Dalton as her attorney.  Loving to play games with other people's lives, and knowing full well about the estrangement betweenthe two brothers, she invites Dalton to come to the island to help her with her will -- on the same weekend as Kenzie's 70th birthday celebration, hoping to engender and witness an entertaining confrontation.<br />Also coming to the island is Kenzie's daughter Bree -- the child born of his 'scandalous' affair years earlier with the 17 year-old Kia.  Dalton's stepson lives on the mainland nearby, and is invited by his father to come to the island as well.  Kenzie knows about his brother's impending visit, and concludes that it is probably time to at least attempt to bury the hatchet.  As Willow so succinctly puts it, 'You're too old to do anything else with it'.<br />The (literal) storm of the title blows up while Dalton and his stepson are out on the ocean in a borrowed boat -- neither of them being sufficiently familiar with it, especially under foul weather conditions.  The potential of losing his brother forever touches Kenzie -- and, indeed, all of those gathered for the birthday party -- in a deep way, causing them to rethink the ways they have lived their lives and reflect on things that are truly meaningful and important, the things that last, that make our lives blessed, each in our own way.<br />Buechner brings all of these elements together masterfully.  His narrative abilities are astounding and subtle -- he never stoops to literary pyrotechnics -- and the spirituality that has filled every work I have read of his is like a gentle light, not the force-fed, raving bombast that passes for such in other authors' works.  There is a great deal of subtle humor in several of these characters (and in his other works as well) -- the woman who owns the island and the bishop who oversees her chapel, most notably.  The story is gripping and moving, intelligently conceived and executed -- and one that, I think, will leave a lasting impression on the reader.the two brothers, she invites Dalton to come to the island to help her with her will -- on the same weekend as Kenzie's 70th birthday celebration, hoping to engender and witness an entertaining confrontation.<br />Also coming to the island is Kenzie's daughter Bree -- the child born of his 'scandalous' affair years earlier with the 17 year-old Kia.  Dalton's stepson lives on the mainland nearby, and is invited by his father to come to the island as well.  Kenzie knows about his brother's impending visit, and concludes that it is probably time to at least attempt to bury the hatchet.  As Willow so succinctly puts it, 'You're too old to do anything else with it'.<br />The (literal) storm of the title blows up while Dalton and his stepson are out on the ocean in a borrowed boat -- neither of them being sufficiently familiar with it, especially under foul weather conditions.  The potential of losing his brother forever touches Kenzie -- and, indeed, all of those gathered for the birthday party -- in a deep way, causing them to rethink the ways they have lived their lives and reflect on things that are truly meaningful and important, the things that last, that make our lives blessed, each in our own way.<br />Buechner brings all of these elements together masterfully.  His narrative abilities are astounding and subtle -- he never stoops to literary pyrotechnics -- and the spirituality that has filled every work I have read of his is like a gentle light, not the force-fed, raving bombast that passes for such in other authors' works.  There is a great deal of subtle humor in several of these characters (and in his other works as well) -- the woman who owns the island and the bishop who oversees her chapel, most notably.  The story is gripping and moving, intelligently conceived and executed -- and one that, I think, will leave a lasting impression on the reader.	2002-08-28
US	47392054	RHQUB70RRHGLX	0670894710	1013337	Bitten (Otherworld)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A NOVEL THAT CAN SINK ITS TEETH INTO YOU...	OK, OK, that's pushing it a little, but I couldn't resist (you don't want to see the list of 'titles' I rejected...) -- but this really is a well-written, gripping story.  The werewolf angle has been done again and again, both in print and on film -- mostly to eye-rolling, cliched effect -- but this is a refreshing take on the topic.<br />Armstrong's heroine is a smart, savvy young woman who is a 'bitten' werewolf -- as opposed to one who is a werewolf from birth.  The novel chronicles not only the 'present-day' events in her life (the main body of the story), but skillfully fills us in on her history as well, filling out her character very nicely.  There are many psychological insights to be gleaned here -- by the reader and by the narrator as well -- and this is one of the greatest strengths of the novel.  This is not some slash-and-gash, blood-spurting gothic/horror tale (although the reader should go into the book expecting a fair amount of gruesome violence) -- it has a lot more to offer than that.<br />The young woman -- Elena -- has left the Pack, her nurturing and protective body in New York state, and moved to Toronto to pursue a 'normal' life among humans, complete with a promising career in journalism and a sensitive, caring boyfriend.  He's so patient with her that he protests only mildly at her 2am 'walks' -- Elena simply has to undergo her Change from time to time and go for a run.  Phillip is concerned for her safety in the city at such a late hour -- not knowing that the strength she possesses could easily overpower the strongest male human she might encounter.  She is endowed with a heightened sense of smell as well (although not as strong when she is in human form as when she is a wolf) -- stronger than any of her wolf brothers in the Pack.<br />A crisis threatens the Pack, and the Alpha, Jeremy, contacts her in Toronto, calling her back to New York.  She is reluctant to go -- angry that the life she has tried to leave behind her is pulling at her so strongly.  She makes the trip, and is plunged into a situation that endangers both the Pack as a whole and herself as an individual.<br />The story moves along nicely -- the face-paced action sequences are neatly balanced by the more introspective ones.  There is drama and humor and emotion here -- and a creative imagination working through the talents of this first-time novelist.so strongly.  She makes the trip, and is plunged into a situation that endangers both the Pack as a whole and herself as an individual.<br />The story moves along nicely -- the face-paced action sequences are neatly balanced by the more introspective ones.  There is drama and humor and emotion here -- and a creative imagination working through the talents of this first-time novelist.	2002-08-22
US	47392054	RMZNAJ1T8O9NL	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THIS NOVEL DESERVES EVERY BIT OF ATTENTION IT'S GETTING	Given the huge volume of reviews already written about Alice Sebold's incredible novel THE LOVELY BONES, I'll be brief.  This is quite simply beautiful and luminous -- don't let the fact that the story is narrated by a 14 year-old murder victim put you off.  There is a gentleness of spirit here as well as a lovely, compelling voice given to this young girl by the author -- there is so much wisdom and healing energy contained herein.  This would be a wonderful read for anyone who is attempting to deal with and focus their grief -- heck, it's a wonderful read for anyone who enjoys well-written, sensitive and imaginative fiction.  THE LOVELY BONES is a lovely gift from a talented writer.	2002-08-17
US	47392054	R2X1KIGZP1S80D	0399149139	628740414	Any Small Thing Can Save You	Books	5	4	5	N	N	NICE TO SEE A TALENTED WRITER SELF-CHALLENGED...	...and Christina Adam has met that challenge quite handily.  I have never read anything by this author before, but after enjoying ANY SMALL THING CAN SAVE YOU as much as I did, I'll certainly keep my eyes open for more of her work.<br />Not a novel at all -- the book is subtitled 'a bestiary' -- the vignettes presented here are nonetheless related in various ways.  A couple involve the same characters -- given away by their names -- and others might as well, although this is really unimportant in the scheme of things.  All of these pieces depict poignant, memorable moments in the lives of the people involved -- some might even be described as epiphanies.  All of the selections are relatively short -- making this a book that's easy to read in short bursts, in several settings, without losing any of its impact.  In fact, in retrospect, I think I probably got more out of it reading it that way than if I had burned through it in a single sitting -- taking my time allowed me to reflect on each of the pieces, making my reading experience much more rewarding.<br />True to the subtitle, each of the entries involves an animal -- usually interacting with the people involved, though sometimes more in the background.  Adam's choice of this form for her book is a curious one -- but one that she has embraced and embodied with a great deal of life and meaning.  As another reviewer below noted, she definitely set a challenge for herself in writing this book in this style -- it'll be interesting to see where she sets the bar for her next lengthy work.	2002-08-16
US	47392054	R10F7T5LBC6V18	0375505172	279519616	April Witch: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	OUTSTANDING WRITING -- AND A COMPELLING STORY	Majgull Axelsson's novel APRIL WITCH is a story told from a different angle -- the narrator is a woman who has lived with cerebral palsy and epilepsy for all of her life.  Born in the 40s in Sweden, she was abandoned into state care by her birth mother -- who subsequently adopted three foster daughters.  The narrator, Desiree, knows about her 'sisters' -- but they know nothing about her, even of her existence.<br />Desiree is extremely intelligent and motivated -- facts that escape most of her care-givers for years -- and she is 'different' in another way as well:  she is an 'April witch', with the ability to leave her crippled body and travel in the bodies of birds and animals (and even other people, although this choice is extremely physically taxing for her).  As she moves through middle age and sees her own condition deteriorating, Desiree comes to the conclusion that her death is approaching.  She has become increasingly obsessed with the idea that one of her 'sisters' has led the life that was 'meant' for her -- and she is determined to do everything she can to find out which one.<br />The three 'sisters' -- a doctor, a physicist and a drug- and alcohol-abusing derelict -- cannot stand each other.  As the book opens, Desiree 'sets her sisters in motion', bringing them not only together, but together around her, in order to answer the questions which have been burning within her for her entire life.<br />The person who knows Desiree the best (and who cares for her very deeply) is her primary care physician, Dr. Hubertsson -- who also happens to be a former lodger at the home of her mother, 'Aunt Ella', as the other 'sisters' know her.  He is the remaining link in the world that binds them all together -- and he becomes part of Desiree's plan as well.  Over the course of this well-developed story, everyone involved -- Desiree included -- comes to learn a lot about themselves as well as the others.<br />Axelsson's central character is an unusual but compelling one -- and it's refreshing to see a person with such an extreme disabity portrayed with such empathy and respect.  This book, besides being very entertaining and intelligently written, can be a potential eye-opener for those who look upon people with disabilities with pity and disdain, as society's flotsam and jetsam.  They -- like all of us -- deserve to be treated with respect and dignity.one -- and it's refreshing to see a person with such an extreme disabity portrayed with such empathy and respect.  This book, besides being very entertaining and intelligently written, can be a potential eye-opener for those who look upon people with disabilities with pity and disdain, as society's flotsam and jetsam.  They -- like all of us -- deserve to be treated with respect and dignity.	2002-08-16
US	47392054	R30B1PBQ2QWBEL	9625936432	154032070	The Painted Alphabet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A SHIMMERING GLIMPSE INTO ANOTHER CULTURE...	...and a beautiful culture it is, too -- Bali.  Diana Darling has taken an ancient Balinese folktale, re-set it in modern times (allowing outside 'advanced' cultures to conflict with the peaceful nature of her exotic setting), and given the reader a treasure.<br />The author is very knowledgeable and sensitive to the Balinese culture and language -- and her work is an immensely compelling fable, with much for the reader to harvest, both as 'mere' entertainment and as a valuable immersion into a rich world that is so different from our own that it could easily be on another planet.  The lessons are gentle and not too hard to grasp -- the love with which the Balinese people treat their environment and each other is wonderful to behold.  Her characters are well-developed and entirely believable -- and the story itself, while uniquely applied to Bali, is really a universal one:  good versus evil and questions about life values -- things which all of us need to consider from time to time, no matter how 'enlightened' we think we are.<br />This is an absolutely beautiful book -- I can recommend it highly.	2002-08-05
US	47392054	RR8QUCFX7KW8R	0312150539	592626260	Angels of the Universe	Books	5	8	8	N	N	GREAT -- BUT CHILLING -- PORTRAIT OF INSANITY	Einar Mar Gudmundsson's short but rich novel is dark, but it is not without humor -- and that's a good thing, since it's an 'inside' look at a young man slowly losing his grip on reality.  He experiences paranoia and hallucinations, experiments with drugs, and is suffering from severe depression.  He has his lighter moments -- in fact, he's an intelligent and lucid person much of the time -- but the weight of his madness slowly drags him further and further down.<br />The humor in the book comes in the form of some of his friends -- fellow-inmates at the Klepp Psychiatric Institute in Rekjavik.  His portraits of some of the doctors, orderlies -- and police -- that he encounters will bring a smile to the reader as well.<br />The author is obviously pretty sensitive to the plight and conditions in which people suffering from mental illness live -- his characters, while embodying much humor, never come across as charicatures, but as real human beings.  I've read that this novel has been (or is being) made into a film in Iceland -- like another reviewer below, I strongly hope that it makes it to the States.  I'd love to see a well-made screen version -- I hope that the author has a great deal of control over it, to keep it true to the spirit of this enlightening and compelling novel.	2002-08-02
US	47392054	R1BNJ0XH256N80	0151685509	749611643	The Old Man Who Read Love Stories	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A STUNNINGLY DRAWN FABLE...	...and one to which it would do us very well to listen.  Sepulveda's novel -- succinct yet full of beautiful writing -- is entertaining and compelling, but it also has a great lesson to teach about the way we interact with the natural world.<br />His main character -- the 'old man' of the title -- is very much a loner in his village, on a river on the verge of the dense Amazon jungle.  He has experienced much joy and sorrow in his life -- and he has been sensitive enough to learn from what he has seen and felt over the years.  He is just literate enough to read the love stories he adores so much -- he has to sound out unfamiliar words repeatedly, savoring them, until he feels comfortable with them.  His life has given him the wisdom and patience to give them the attention and respect they deserve -- and he views the world in which he lives, with all of its plants and animals and indigenous people, with the same healthy and reverent respect.  It's too bad the same can't be said for the other settlers in the village -- or in most people in the world, for that matter.<br />The old man is very friendly with and knowledgeable in the ways of the Shuar Indians, who inhabit the forest -- he has even lived with them at one point in his life.  His knowledge of the natural world makes him very valuable to his neighbors when a female ocelot goes on a killing spree -- he is pressed into service to hunt her down and kill her.<br />His thoughts on his world -- and the people around him -- are gently but convincingly communicated by Sepulveda's beautiful writing.  This is a novel to savor, word by word -- much as some of the works of Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Carlos Fuentes.  It contains so much more than this slim volume would indicate at first glance.  It's a wonderful read.	2002-07-28
US	47392054	R3SE4HAJDWPPG4	0880016787	291240804	Sea of Memory: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	FINDING A WAY TO UNDERSTAND THE PAST	The sixteen year-old narrator of Erri de Luca's short but luminous novel SEA OF MEMORY is on a quest.  Set in a small fishing village on an Italian island in the 1950s, the novel explores not only his coming-of-age summer, but his curiosity about the war as well -- and it does so with depth, insight and sensitivity.<br />The boy's questions about the war are answered by the adults in his life briefly and openly at first -- when they realize that their replies are not satisfying him, however, they clam up, almost to a man.  The war is a subject that is not history to them -- it is something through which they lived.  Their memories of the events in question are not pretty ones.  Serving in the Italian army, under the control of the Reich, there are things they were ordered to do of which there can be no pride.  Some of them managed to avoid committing atrocities -- they even found ways of helping the people they were supposed to be oppressing (and some of them were sheltered in return when they were the ones sought by the Germans).  The more the boy comes to understand, the angrier at Germany he becomes.<br />This anger is intensified when he is befriended by an older girl, Caia, who is on the island for the summer.  He is attracted to her without question -- but he also knows that, being younger, he stands little chance of getting closer to her.  Caia is drawn to him as well -- and as their friendship deepens, he begins to suspect that she is harboring secrets, and he is determined to learn more about her.<br />As the story evolves -- and I won't give away much here -- it turns out that Caia is Jewish, and that she begins to believe that her dead father is attempting to communicate with her through the young boy.  This draws them closer together still -- but in a deeper way than romance alone could hope to accomplish.<br />De Luca is very skillful in evoking the atmosphere and life in the village -- his descriptions of the fishermen and their work, and of the emotions felt by his characters, are extremely sensitive and compelling.  He treats his characters with respect, never depicting them in a patronizing manner.<br />The boy's anger, fuelled to a volcanic point by his love for Caia, brings him to a crossroads in his life -- one of an intensity that is not usually reached by one so young.  The story is told in spare language, but with a sense of completeness that left me with the sure feeling that a 'thicker' style would have over-burdened this story.<br />Highly recommended.ns felt by his characters, are extremely sensitive and compelling.  He treats his characters with respect, never depicting them in a patronizing manner.<br />The boy's anger, fuelled to a volcanic point by his love for Caia, brings him to a crossroads in his life -- one of an intensity that is not usually reached by one so young.  The story is told in spare language, but with a sense of completeness that left me with the sure feeling that a 'thicker' style would have over-burdened this story.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-07-28
US	47392054	R2DDXJTNO9HRK5	1573222194	372272404	The Box Children	Books	5	13	13	N	N	AN UPLIFTING COMING-OF-AGE NOVEL	Sharon Wyse's literary debut is an impressive one.  To write a coming-of-age novel like this, finding an absolutely perfect voice for her 11 year-old narrator, as well as treating her young character with the respect she deserves is quite an achievement.  Too many authors attempt this type of novel and wind up being offensively patronizing toward the children they depict.  Wyse's insights, sensitivity and skills allow her to avoid such pitfalls.<br />Set on a farm near a (very) small town in the Texas panhandle in the 1960s, the story is narrated by 11 year-old Lou Ann Campbell -- one of the most unforgettable, admirable characters the reader is likely to run across in contemporary fiction.  She lives with her parents and her older brother -- and they're packing a lot of baggage.  Her mother is decidedly -- and increasingly -- neurotic, taking out her frustrations with her philandering husband, her emotional damage caused by numerous miscarriages, and her feelings of being trapped in poverty out on her children, especially Lou Ann.  Lou Ann's brother, with whom she has enjoyed a close sibling relationship, is maturing to the point where he sees his little sister as more of a liability than as asset -- and his sexual curiosity is making her increasingly uncomfortable as well.  Lou Ann's father, despite being unfaithful to his wife, is not such an unlikable character.  He doesn't understand his wife's emotional problems, and he too is frustrated with the family's economical stagnation, their dependence on his wife's parents (who own the land they farm) for stability.<br />Lou Ann is convinced that the five babies miscarried by her mother are with her -- she has a cardboard box and five tiny dolls to live in it, the 'box children' of the title.  She plays with them daily, confides in and talks with them.  These conversations, along with the outlet of her secret diary (which makes up the novel) are the outlets that allow her to get through the events of the book, to find some meaning in her life, and to strengthen her determination to be strong and live her life as she sees fit.<br />The novel is moving, well-written and compelling -- I had to pace myself, allowing myself to savor it, rather than rush through it.  It's a reading experience I thoroughly enjoyed, and one I will never forget -- and one I can most highly recommend.<br />Other great coming-of-age novels I've read in the past couple of years -- all of which I can recommend just as highly -- include THE ABSENCE OF NECTAR by Kathy Hepinstall, SHADOW BABY by Alison McGhee, and THIS IS GRACEANNE'S BOOK by P.L.WHITNEY.<br />Read on...d some meaning in her life, and to strengthen her determination to be strong and live her life as she sees fit.<br />The novel is moving, well-written and compelling -- I had to pace myself, allowing myself to savor it, rather than rush through it.  It's a reading experience I thoroughly enjoyed, and one I will never forget -- and one I can most highly recommend.<br />Other great coming-of-age novels I've read in the past couple of years -- all of which I can recommend just as highly -- include THE ABSENCE OF NECTAR by Kathy Hepinstall, SHADOW BABY by Alison McGhee, and THIS IS GRACEANNE'S BOOK by P.L.WHITNEY.<br />Read on...	2002-07-24
US	47392054	RPL6Y17LU6ICY	0375701923	29396825	MotherKind: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A MEDITATION ON DEATH AND BIRTH AND LIVING	I didn't find this novel to be the easiest thing to read that I've picked up in the last few months -- but, that being said, I felt that the beauty of the language compelled me to finish it, once I had begun.<br />Jayne Anne Phillips has taken on a monumental task in writing this book.  She has reduced the events and emotions of life-changing events -- the birth of a child, the agony and ecstasy of breastfeeding, and the at-home hospice care of a dying mother -- into words, onto the printed page.  Her observations and meditations of these events are illuminating and moving.  The seemingly everyday events in the lives of her characters take on a luminosity usually only bestowed by painters on their subjects.  Things we take for granted -- a walk down the street to the market, a confidence shared with a friend, the touch of a mother's hand -- all take on an importance that is magnified.  This magnification is not a falsification -- it is an opportunity for us to realize the importance of small things, an importance too often overlooked in our busy lives.  This novel, then, becomes a study in priorities.<br />I had a hard time getting past the first 100 pages or so -- and I think, in retrospect, I can attribute this to the author's pursuit of the 'mundane' details in everyday living.  When I finally accustomed myself to the style she employed, I was able to relax more, take my time, and relish her creation.<br />As far as other works I've read by Phillips, I must say that I enjoyed her novel SHELTER a bit more -- but her talent is genuine and accomplished, and I look forward to reading other works.<br />Lastly, I have to say that this is a book that should be read by more male readers -- its subject (mother-daughter relations and the birth/breastfeeding experience) might tend to cause it to be classified as 'women's fiction', but that would be doing it a disservice.  It would also cause it to be passed over by men who could use the lessons it teaches in order to allow them to better relate to their female counterparts.  Understanding and empathy can go a long way in strengthening a relationship -- and we could all use a little more understanding, especially between the sexes.them to better relate to their female counterparts.  Understanding and empathy can go a long way in strengthening a relationship -- and we could all use a little more understanding, especially between the sexes.	2002-07-24
US	47392054	R39XVR3PVFRFPU	0805055800	129665449	A Crime in the Neighborhood	Books	5	8	10	N	N	JUST UNDER THE VENEER OF A TRANQUIL ENVIRONMENT...	...there are usually all sorts of things going on.  Suzanne Berg's gently compelling novel A CRIME IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD is set in the early 1970s -- Nixon is in the White House, Watergate is a breaking story.  People are beginning to see the cracks in the feet of the statues of their leaders -- they are beginning to see that the world is not the idyllic place they have enjoyed imagining during the 50s and 60s.  It is becoming real -- and it is beginning to intrude into their daily lives.<br />The novel is told from the point of view of Marsha Eberhardt -- a ten year-old girl with an older brother and sister (twins) who torment her (isn't that included in the 'job descriptions' of older siblings?); a mother who is intelligent but wearing blinders, scrambling to find her place in life; and a father who has pretty much stepped out of the family picture, having an affair and running off with his wife's sister.  Combine all of these emotional drains with the general 'responsibilities' of being a ten year-old girl and the fact that the tranquility of their 'Leave it to Beaver' type neighborhood has just been shattered by the molestation and murder of a young boy, and life-changing circumstances are geared into motion.<br />Marsha's story is told by her adult self, looking back over the span of 25 years or so at the events that formed her outlook on the world -- and at the way she perceived them, and the way that there perceptions guided them along.  As much as a look at the events themselves and how they played out -- and there is indeed a palpable aura of mystery here -- the novel addresses the way we respond to events that occur around us, and how the responses we form affect not only our lives but the lives of those around us.  Yes, that's right, there's a moral dilemma/lesson to be had here, but not to worry -- Berne's skill and empathy for her characters, as well as her respect for them and for her readers, keeps this from becoming in any way 'preachy'.  This is a compelling, intelligent story -- and it's one that will be as relevant for years to come as it is for us today.<br />Gosh -- writing that's intelligent, a bit of a learning experience, and entertaining all at the same time.  Not a bad way to spend some reading time.  Highly recommended.pelling, intelligent story -- and it's one that will be as relevant for years to come as it is for us today.<br />Gosh -- writing that's intelligent, a bit of a learning experience, and entertaining all at the same time.  Not a bad way to spend some reading time.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-17
US	47392054	R42FF0CAAEDT	1568581165	50197741	Father of Lies: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	AN OUTSTANDING LOOK AT THE METHODS & MIND OF A PREDATOR	This is a well-written, gripping story, focusing on the worst kind of sexual predator -- a pedophile who is a church official.  His office -- and its accompanying mantle of trust -- makes him more effective than most of these monsters.  It also makes the damage he does even harder for its victims to overcome.<br />Evenson's writing is concise, giving us a clear, hard look at this man and his methods.  He is protraying only one man, of course -- and there are as many 'reasons' for the sort of behavior he perpetrates as there are perpetrators -- but many of the 'classic' actions are here.  While on the one hand he seems to be 'out of control', hallucinating voices and seeing (and following the instructions of) multiple personalities within himself, we can also clearly see him meticulously manipulating his victims -- there is definite premeditation in his acts.<br />The attempt by the church to cover up the scandal as it comes more and more into the light is completely dispicable -- and, in light of recent events in the news, very topical.  At first, the man's superiors place their faith in his assurances that he is innocent of any wrongdoing.  When it becomes clearer and clearer that he has been lying to them, they are righteously shocked and outraged that he has deceived them -- but they made no real investigation into the allegations when they first arose.<br />This is not a happy novel -- but then neither are the lives of indiciduals who have suffered the 'attentions' of predators such as the one so vividly drawn here.  It is, however, a novel that should be read by any adult who cares about how children are treated, and about protecting them.  This is not a book for young, immature readers -- but I would be comforted if my 16 year-old read it (she's mature and intelligent).<br />Brian Evenson has done a great service in writing this novel -- its message is one that too many people brush aside, thinking, 'That kind of stuff never happens to anyone I know'.  Statistics, sadly, show that they're wrong.ics, sadly, show that they're wrong.	2002-07-12
US	47392054	R2SEZTFW3FJ8IC	0385482736	164840996	Acts of Revision	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A FRIGHTENING VIEW FROM A PLACE YOU DON'T WANT TO BE...	...namely, from the inside the mind of a very disturbed individual.  Gregory Lynn, the 34-year-old narrator of Martyn Bedford's chilling first novel, is so angry over what he perceives as wrongs commited against him years before, when he was a teenager, by his teachers, that his view of his world has become completely skewed and twisted.  Combined with his home situation -- his father was an alcoholic and his mother totally hapless as a single parent -- and the death of his beloved sister Janice, who died at the age of seven of meningitis, these so-called 'crimes' against him require severe 'revision' to be enacted on the perpetrators.<br />When his mother dies, leaving him 'an orphan' at the age of 34, Gregory finds in the family attic several letters from his teachers, written years before, criticizing his work and attitude in school -- suggestions for 'revision' in his outlook and methods.  In an already deteriorated state of mind, reading these over and over until he knows them by heart, he sets out methodically about his self-assigned task.  He constructs a map poster in his attic, systematically locates each of his surviving teachers, and designs his actions against each to suit their particular offences and fields of study.<br />This is not a book about someone who -- for whatever reason -- decides to kill a number of people.  Killing is not Gregory's purpose here.  He wants these people to know -- to understand on the deepest possible level -- what they have done to him, what they have caused (in his mind, at least) to happen in his life.<br />Gregory is a talented artist -- his ability manifests itself in cartoons that he draws, incorporating his wild imaginings about what he will do to the people on his list.  'When I draw something, I can make it happen', he says -- and this is frighteningly close to the truth in several cases.<br />Bedford's writing is taut and skillfully executed -- he reveals details about Gregory's personality, thoughts and life slowly to the reader, adding a very real element of suspense to a story that is filled with tension of different kinds.  This is truly one of those novels that is 'hard to put down' -- and one that is a very rewarding, entertaining and enlightening read.  This novel compares well to Patrick McGrath's masterful SPIDER, as well as to Iain M. Banks' disturbing THE WASP FACTORY.<br />On the strength of this novel, I've since picked up his second effort, THE HOUDINI GIRL -- I'm looking forward to experiencing it as well.y to the reader, adding a very real element of suspense to a story that is filled with tension of different kinds.  This is truly one of those novels that is 'hard to put down' -- and one that is a very rewarding, entertaining and enlightening read.  This novel compares well to Patrick McGrath's masterful SPIDER, as well as to Iain M. Banks' disturbing THE WASP FACTORY.<br />On the strength of this novel, I've since picked up his second effort, THE HOUDINI GIRL -- I'm looking forward to experiencing it as well.	2002-07-11
US	47392054	R32L1W59PYO8J5	0743225120	164400726	A Child's Book of True Crime: A Novel	Books	3	11	11	N	N	'AN ANSWER IS WHERE THE MIND COMES TO REST'	The above quote, from p. 194 of Chloe Hooper's A CHILD'S BOOK OF TRUE CRIME, is an apt one for describing the feeling I was left with after reading this novel.  There are so many options presented during the protagonist's exploration of the mystery described (the murder, years before of a young woman with whom a veterinarian was conducting an extra-marital affair, and the subsequent disappearance of his wife) that the reader is pretty much left to draw his/her own conclusions -- nothing is really resolved for certain.  This lends an air of doubt to the story, but it also keeps it from being 'tied up nicely' at the end.  In many cases, this is an appreciated effect of good writing -- but here, it left me feeling vaguely dissatisfied.<br />Hooper's writing is good -- especially in relation to Kate, her young central character.  Kate is 23, out on her own for the first time in her life, teaching 4th grade in a primary school in Tasmania.  Her uncertainties about how she should live her own life come into play very strongly here.  Allowing herself to be drawn into an affair with a married man -- the father of her favorite pupil -- is only her first mistake.  She comes to suspect that his wife has known about their affair for some time, and begins to feel like she might be in danger.  The man's wife is a writer, having just published a 'true crime' book about the affair and disappearance mentioned above -- the crime is still vividly in the minds of people who live in the area, and they are very resentful and offended by the woman's prying into events which they would just as soon keep to themselves.<br />The story of Kate brings out many uncertainties about life with which, I'm sure, many of the readers can identify -- her above-mentioned search for direction in her life being the most prevalent.  It also astutely describes many things felt and experienced by young children -- using Lucien, the son of her paramour, as its focus.  Lucien is tortured and troubled by what he sees as coldness and seperation in the lives of his parents.  His father admits on one occasion to Kate (and this is very telling) that they try to treat him as 'a small adult' -- not a very realistic (or healthy) way to raise a child.<br />Hooper has taken on a difficult and challenging topic/theme for her first novel -- it doesn't quite succeed, but that doesn't mean she's not a fine writer with a lot of potential.  I'd be very interested to see what she does next.	2002-07-03
US	47392054	R2IWH9PX2JWBFR	0743225120	164400726	A Child's Book of True Crime: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	'AN ANSWER IS WHERE THE MIND COMES TO REST'	The above quote, from p. 194 of Chloe Hooper's A CHILD'S BOOK OF TRUE CRIME, is an apt one for describing the feeling I was left with after reading this novel.  There are so many options presented during the protagonist's exploration of the mystery described (the murder, years before of a young woman with whom a veterinarian was conducting an extra-marital affair, and the subsequent disappearance of his wife) that the reader is pretty much left to draw his/her own conclusions -- nothing is really resolved for certain.  This lends an air of doubt to the story, but it also keeps it from being 'tied up nicely' at the end.  In many cases, this is an appreciated effect of good writing -- but here, it left me feeling vaguely dissatisfied.<br />Hooper's writing is good -- especially in relation to Kate, her young central character.  Kate is 23, out on her own for the first time in her life, teaching 4th grade in a primary school in Tasmania.  Her uncertainties about how she should live her own life come into play very strongly here.  Allowing herself to be drawn into an affair with a married man -- the father of her favorite pupil -- is only her first mistake.  She comes to suspect that his wife has known about their affair for some time, and begins to feel like she might be in danger.  The man's wife is a writer, having just published a 'true crime' book about the affair and disappearance mentioned above -- the crime is still vividly in the minds of people who live in the area, and they are very resentful and offended by the woman's prying into events which they would just as soon keep to themselves.<br />The story of Kate brings out many uncertainties about life with which, I'm sure, many of the readers can identify -- her above-mentioned search for direction in her life being the most prevalent.  It also astutely describes many things felt and experienced by young children -- using Lucien, the son of her paramour, as its focus.  Lucien is tortured and troubled by what he sees as coldness and seperation in the lives of his parents.  His father admits on one occasion to Kate (and this is very telling) that they try to treat him as 'a small adult' -- not a very realistic (or healthy) way to raise a child.<br />Hooper has taken on a difficult and challenging topic/theme for her first novel -- it doesn't quite succeed, but that doesn't mean she's not a fine writer with a lot of potential.  I'd be very interested to see what she does next.e sees as coldness and seperation in the lives of his parents.  His father admits on one occasion to Kate (and this is very telling) that they try to treat him as 'a small adult' -- not a very realistic (or healthy) way to raise a child.<br />Hooper has taken on a difficult and challenging topic/theme for her first novel -- it doesn't quite succeed, but that doesn't mean she's not a fine writer with a lot of potential.  I'd be very interested to see what she does next.	2002-07-03
US	47392054	R3O1NLMJ4BM0EY	1581950314	162282037	Chum	Books	1	1	3	N	N	A THIN STEW	The reviews and comments I had read about Mark Spitzer's novel CHUM intrigued me -- so I thought I would check it out.  I was sorely disappointed in this book.  The only character for whom I felt even mild, brief sympathetic feelings was the nun who appeared on one or two pages.  Everyone else in this story is completely dispicable.  The 'warning' on the inner jacket flap about the story being 'sex-obsessed, scatological, deeply offensive, violent...(&c)' is pretty accurate.  The overall effect was like reading the toilet-seat fantasies of some adolescent...<br />I thought Spitzer's writing was skillful -- it just amazes me that he chose to focus his talents on such drivel.  The quotes on the back comparing the novel to Melville (calling CHUM 'the Moby Dick of the millenium') and the work of Tom Robbins, and offering poshumous (always a safe gift) approval from the likes of Kafka, Kierkegaard and Ingmar Bergman were ludicrous at best.<br />The violence and degradation of women depicted in this book reminds me of nothing less than some of the more depraved 'underground' comics of the 1960s.  What humor I found within its pages was not enough to redeem it.  Sorry to be so negative, but that's how I feel.<br />For a vibrant, imaginative -- and by no means 'tame' -- story in a similar vein, check out Mark Richard's marvelous novel FISHBOY.  It burns with the surreal qualities that I think Spitzer was shooting for (perhaps an unfortunate choice of words) in this book, and it's not nearly so morally reprehensible.	2002-07-01
US	47392054	R1BVJRILOAWY0G	1878448900	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A STORY WITH A PAINTING AS A CHARACTER...?	The concept behind Susan Vreeland's GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE is an interesting one -- a beautiful painting, claimed by its present owner to be a previously-unknown work by Vermeer, is followed back through time, through its various owners, to the time of its inception and inspiration.  A challenging premise -- but in the hands of Vreeland, it works very well.<br />The novel starts out in the present day -- a reclusive university professor invites a fellow faculty member (an art professor) into his home, after the funeral of a dean.  There, in his study, he reveals to his fellow teacher his most prized possession, a beautiful, luminous painting of a young girl looking out of a window.  The art professor admires the artist's skill, calling it 'remarkable', a 'beguiling imitation' of a Vermeer.  When the painting's owner reveals his belief that it is, indeed, a Vermeer, the art professor presses him for information as to how his father (who bequeathed him the work) came by the painting, and we are off on our journey.<br />Along the way, we encounter many people who have possessed the painting over the past 300+ years -- and, as a microcosm of humanity itself, we find that they are simple, pure, pretentious, generous, scheming, talented and manipulative, in turns.  It's a fascinating way of looking at the world 'around' this work of art - and, ultimately, many ways of looking at the work itself.<br />The book is both well-written and entertaining -- and, overall, very illuminating, both in relation to art and to human nature, a highly recommended reading experience.	2002-06-29
US	47392054	R2V92GFV4BE3IF	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	11	14	N	N	WRITING WITH AN ARTIST'S TOUCH	GIRL WITH A PEARL EARRING is simply one of the most stunningly beautiful pieces of writing I've come across in some time.  Chevalier's prose falls onto the page lightly, with a grace that makes it seem effortless.  Like Vermeer's colors, light and shadows, it is lovingly and carefully constructed, built up in layers, each shining through with its own invaluable contribution to the whole.<br />The girl in the painting is possessed of a natural, unassuming beauty -- there are none of the haughty airs affected by the 'high-born' ladies she serves, by the wives of her master's (Vermeer's) patrons, present in her expression.  Her lovely face is a refreshing respite from the ones so often found in the paintings of the day -- her eyes are deep, honest and wide, taking in the world around her quietly and gently, missing very little.<br />These perceived characteristics in Vermeer's subject are brought to life vividly by Chevalier in this novel.  Griet -- brought into service to Vermeer's family as a kindness, after her father, a tile painter, loses his trade after being blinded in a kiln accident -- is instantly likable.  She has a good soul, and loves her family dearly.  She is modest and unpretentious -- when she feels desires welling up within her, whether material or emotional in nature, she is discomforted by them.<br />When Vermeer and his wife come to the home of Griet and her parents to meet her for the first time, she is in the kitchen preparing food for her family.  The eye of the artist is immediately drawn to her work on the counter -- she is cutting vegetables, and she has arranged them, without thinking about the reasons, by colors, arrayed like wedges cut from a wheel.  Vermeer senses an innate artistic sensibility within her -- it is an image that will remain with him.<br />When Griet comes to stay at Vermeer's house, living among his family, she quickly slips into the eddys and currents of 17th century Dutch family politics -- once again, without having to stop for more than a moment and consider, she intuitively knows whom she can count on to be fair, jealous, powerful, scheming, &amp;c.  She sees that the real power of the household rests not with Catharina, Vermeer's wife, but in his mother-in-law, Maria Thins.  At the same time, the older woman sees in Griet something special -- this young woman (only 16 when she arrives) is no ordinary girl.<br />Griet is entrusted with cleaning the master's studio on a daily basis -- with the explicit instructions that, other than leaving the area cleaner, she must never leave a sign that she has been there.  She must be especially careful of the objects arranged in the area that Vermeer is painting -- they must never be moved.  She undertakes this task cleverly, devising a system of her own whereby she can lift the objects and clean under them, replacing them exactly where she found them.  Her work is careful and thorough and sensitive to Vermeer's wishes -- and she finds him more and more appreciative of her efforts.<br />There is one particularly moving scene (among many in this novel) wherein Vermeer takes a moment to explain to Griet how seemingly pure colors contain within them other shades that are more subtle.  He asks her what color the clouds are that she sees out the window -- she replies that they are white.  He asks her to look again -- and she begins to see shades of blues and greys and pinks in them.  She begins to understand how difficult it is for a painting to be born, for the effect to be such that it deeply touches and moves the viewer.<br />One of Vermeer's patrons takes a licentious interest in Griet -- she resists his advances and attempts to avoid him when he comes to the house.  Eventually, he persuades Vermeer to do a portrait of Griet for him -- a task that must be undertaken without the knowledge of Vermeer's wife, and, indeed, most of his family.  Only the artist's mother-in-law, Maria Thins, knows about the portrait.  As he works on it over a periodof several months, it becomes more and more apparent to Griet that the completion of the painting will very likely signal her departure from the household.  Along with other emotional events in her life during this period, it places a very real strain on her.  She must come to terms with her situation, her view of herself, and her future -- within or without the artist's household.<br />The book gives the reader an exceptionally clear of what life must have been like in 17th century Delft -- not only among the more privileged classes, but among the working people as well.  Without coming across as patronizing in any way, Chevalier gives a sensitive rendering of these people and their times -- and in the process gives the reader a moving, entertaining experience that will not soon be forgotten.<br />It's probably a bad habit on my part, but I normally steer clear of 'best sellers', preferring to stick to lesser-known authors and first novels -- I find, as a rule, that they tend to take more chances than someone attempting to write something for mass consumption.  I have to admit that I avoided this novel for a while, knowing how well it has sold -- and I'll admit that that was a mistake.  This is a book that well deserves all of the praise that it has received -- I can well understand how it has moved so many people.  It's a wonderful thing to see something so well-written and uncompromising at the same time to be so widely appreciated.of several months, it becomes more and more apparent to Griet that the completion of the painting will very likely signal her departure from the household.  Along with other emotional events in her life during this period, it places a very real strain on her.  She must come to terms with her situation, her view of herself, and her future -- within or without the artist's household.<br />The book gives the reader an exceptionally clear of what life must have been like in 17th century Delft -- not only among the more privileged classes, but among the working people as well.  Without coming across as patronizing in any way, Chevalier gives a sensitive rendering of these people and their times -- and in the process gives the reader a moving, entertaining experience that will not soon be forgotten.<br />It's probably a bad habit on my part, but I normally steer clear of 'best sellers', preferring to stick to lesser-known authors and first novels -- I find, as a rule, that they tend to take more chances than someone attempting to write something for mass consumption.  I have to admit that I avoided this novel for a while, knowing how well it has sold -- and I'll admit that that was a mistake.  This is a book that well deserves all of the praise that it has received -- I can well understand how it has moved so many people.  It's a wonderful thing to see something so well-written and uncompromising at the same time to be so widely appreciated.	2002-06-25
US	47392054	R3LNJAHS4DQNAF	0805046941	843014709	Class Trip: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A SUCCESSFUL DEPICTION OF ADOLESCENT ANGST AND CONFUSION	...which in itself is quite an achievement. Author Carrere's prose and the insights we are allowed into the mind of his youthful protagonist are vivid and given life with an authentic voice.  Nicolas' confusion and anxiety -- the building blocks of adolescnce, if I remember correctly (some things we never forget...) -- are heart-rending and memorable.<br />In one scene, wherein he experiences his (evidently) first nocturnal emission, he is horrified, at first believing that he has wet his bed -- leading us to the conclusion that his education on this front has been lacking, if not completely absent.  Other indications point toward this as well -- he seems to be an above-average, 'normal' (whatever that is) boy, who has been extremely sheltered from the 'real world' by his parents.  They have gone out of their way to insure that he not be traumatized by school or his classmates.<br />Nicolas' father is a travelling salesman -- a purveyor of medical equipment and prosthetic devices, a specialty that lends itself well to Nicolas' imagination and the efforts he makes to make himself 'interesting' to his fellow students.  Away from home on a class outing -- a ski-instruction trip -- with his head filled with tales of ghoulish adults harvesting organs from kidnapped children, when a child disappears from the local village, the fuse of his imagination is lit.  What follows is an almost Hardy Boys-inspired fascination with the possibilities seen in the child's disappearance -- and some pretty twisted inventions by Nicolas and his partner-in-detection, fellow-student and school tough guy Hodkann.  The reality they find at the end of their amateurish investigation comes as a shock to everyone involved -- and Nicolas is the last one to find out.<br />The suspense in this short novel (easily read in one sitting) is palpable and entertaining -- my only complaint is that the character and psyche of Nicolas was gone into a bit more deeply.  It's still an enjoyable read -- and I'll be on the lookout for an earlier novel, THE MUSTACHE, by this author.ll be on the lookout for an earlier novel, THE MUSTACHE, by this author.	2002-06-22
US	47392054	R3KR7MO1XXAZSJ	0618066136	211393704	Mr. Wroe's Virgins	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A VERY PROPHETABLE READ...	Jane Roger's ISLAND impressed me so much that I began to look for some of her other works -- MR WROE'S VIRGINS is the first one I came across.  It didn't disappoint.  Rogers has done an amazing job retelling/reinventing the story of the 'real' John Wroe -- her prose and characterizations are excellent, and the technique of using multiple narrators is extremely effective and enlightening.<br />Told from the point of view of four women -- four of the 'virgins' taken into the home of Prophet John Wroe, 'for comfort and succor' -- but never from that of Wroe himself, Rogers' novel goes beyond simply telling a story.  The voices of these four women are individual and distinct.  The sections of the story they each relate overlap in time a bit, and their various points of view illuminate descrepancies in the way they view the events depicted here.<br />Leah is a beautiful, haughty, self-centered young woman -- she is sure in her own mind that she is the most beautiful and desirable of the seven chosen, and she is determined to play this to her own advantage.  She sees her 'sisters' as competition, and she views their motives -- innocent though most of them may be -- with great suspicion, seeing and imagining things not quite as they actually are at times.<br />Hannah is an unbeliever, thrown in with this group of Christian Israelites, feeling much like a fish out of water.  Rather than accepting Mr. Wroe's dire predictions of the imminent end of the world -- Judgement Day -- she instead sees the answer to humanity's woes through education, through working together for the common good.  These beliefs lead her to working with the poor of the town, teaching them to read, attempting to raise their social and political consciousness, and getting involved in the birth of the trade union movement in England.<br />Joanna -- Saint Joanna, as she is called by most of the other women -- is completely devoted, in heart, body and soul, to God and to Mr. Wroe's movement.  She views every single event in her life through scriptural interpretaion, bending to God's will every chance she gets.  From the opposite end of the scale, her view is thus just as skewed as that of Leah.<br />Martha -- the fourth narrator -- comes to the house as a mute, obviously horribly beaten and abused by her father at home, who has seen Mr. Wroe's call for seven virgins to serve him as an easy way to rid himself of a daughter he doesn't want, a burden.  Martha's narrative is, for me, the most striking in the novel.  At first, it comes in fragments, little bursts of words, the most rudimentary images and feelings.  As the novel progresses, Martha's thoughts and expression become more organized -- she is being taught speech and hymns by 'Saint Joanna', who evidently possesses the patience of Job -- and the horrors of her earlier life, which she sees as so completely separate that she thinks of it as happening to the 'other Martha', become clearer and clearer.  The abuse and suffering she has endured is unbelievable and heartbreaking -- and it explains her temperament, which could at times be seen as epileptic or schizophrenic.  This is an incredibly damaged young woman.<br />As the Prophet of his church, Mr. Wroe weilds immense power and influence.  He hears instructions and illuminations directly from God, almost on a nightly basis -- even with a council of Elders to aid in governing the affairs of the church, Wroe's word is practically law.  Living in a house with seven young women, it is inevitable that suspicions and accusations begin to mount -- the novel is set, after all, in 1830s England, a much more puritanical society that we enjoy today.  Wroe himself is tempted by the presence of the women as well -- and this temptations, combined with his human frailty, lead to much trouble for him and his church.<br />Rogers skills in both narrating this tale -- and, again, the use of the four narrators is done to stunning effect -- share the spotlight here with her ability toconvey the contradictions inherit in organized religion in general.  When one person -- or even a group of persons -- holds such power and influence over their 'followers', there is bound to be trouble.  The weight of the organization's purpose is too much for a leader to bear.  When the people rely on a human leader to tell them how to follow the will of God -- rather than listening to their own hearts and finding their own path -- that leader's humanity will almost inevitably lead to disaster.<br />The novel is very 'heady' -- but at the same time very readable, being compelling and entertaining.  It's a wonderful achievement.  Knowing that Rogers wrote the script for the BBC's adaptation of the novel, I'd be very interested to see that as well.convey the contradictions inherit in organized religion in general.  When one person -- or even a group of persons -- holds such power and influence over their 'followers', there is bound to be trouble.  The weight of the organization's purpose is too much for a leader to bear.  When the people rely on a human leader to tell them how to follow the will of God -- rather than listening to their own hearts and finding their own path -- that leader's humanity will almost inevitably lead to disaster.<br />The novel is very 'heady' -- but at the same time very readable, being compelling and entertaining.  It's a wonderful achievement.  Knowing that Rogers wrote the script for the BBC's adaptation of the novel, I'd be very interested to see that as well.	2002-06-21
US	47392054	R121FHKH804QZJ	0312420064	839716520	The Love-Artist: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	THIS BOOK INFUSES A LONG-AGO ERA WITH VITAL BREATH	How many of us remember our days at school -- high school or college -- having the classics rammed down our throats, when a gentler method might have instilled in more of us an appeciation and love for the masterful works of Greece and Rome in their heyday?  Ovid, of course (at least when I was in school, lo these many years ago) was glossed over by my teachers -- his works were far too seeded in the 'forbidden' emotions of physical love for the school boards of the day.<br />Jane Alison's incredible novel THE LOVE-ARTIST brings Ovid, his contemporaries and their society vividly to life for the reader -- the story she tells is no cold biography, but a living, breathing imagined life.  Her characters -- Ovid, and especially Xenia -- are enthralling, exotic, erotic and (most importantly) BELIEVABLE.  Their thoughts and emotions and motives, as layed out for us in this enthralling tale, make for as compelling a read as I've come across in recent years.<br />The story begins with Ovid being exiled from Rome by the emperor Augustus -- he is being transported through the Roman night seated on a wagon, flanked by two soldiers saddled with the boring (to them) duty of ridding Augustus of one more irritation.  As the great poet begins to recall the events that led to his societal downfall, the rest of the story is told in a lengthy flashback.<br />On holiday on the Black Sea, far from Rome, as his masterpiece THE METAMORPHOSES is about to be published, Ovid is seeking both relaxation from the tensions of life in Rome as well as inspiration.  He knows that in order to regain favour in the eyes of the emperor, his next work must be not only astounding in its scope, but acceptable to the powers-that-be.  Almost as soon as he sets foot on land after his long sea journey, he is astonished to see a beautiful, exotic, wild young woman shoot up out of the sea as if she had been launched by a catapult.<br />She is Xenia -- gatherer of herbs, caster of spells, exorcisor of demons, reader of dreams and futures among the people in the remote region where she lives.  She captures Ovid's imagination -- and his heart -- almost immediately.  He sees in her all of the wild creatures from his METAMORPHOSES brought to life in a human being -- and he sees in her a muse, his inspiration for his next work.  He becomes obsessed with her -- he must have her, he must bring her back with him to Rome.<br />Xenia is fully aware of Ovid's work -- and she soon comes to realize that the lanky Roman who is watching her from his hidden (he thinks) spot in the woods is the great poet she has so long admired.  She is not completely wild -- she can read Latin, and has devoured Ovid's books.  She is equally obsessed with him -- she sees in him a great opportunity for immortality, to be famous.  They set their sights on each other almost simultaneously -- and the machinations they first have in mind give way in both of them to love.<br />The tale that follows -- with Ovid returning to Rome with Xenia -- is part love story, part mystery, a small epic of betrayal and magic and political power.  Alison's writing is achingly lyrical -- it is perfectly suited to her subject, matching her imaginings of Ovid's life with the mood left us from the genius of his own writings.  The story is enthralling and hard to put down -- and one of the finest novels I've read in some time.  The experience was so rich that I didn't want it to end -- even as it whirled to its inevitable conclusion (which, thankfully, Alison's talents imbued with not a few surprises).<br />This novel is a real treat.reader of dreams and futures among the people in the remote region where she lives.  She captures Ovid's imagination -- and his heart -- almost immediately.  He sees in her all of the wild creatures from his METAMORPHOSES brought to life in a human being -- and he sees in her a muse, his inspiration for his next work.  He becomes obsessed with her -- he must have her, he must bring her back with him to Rome.<br />Xenia is fully aware of Ovid's work -- and she soon comes to realize that the lanky Roman who is watching her from his hidden (he thinks) spot in the woods is the great poet she has so long admired.  She is not completely wild -- she can read Latin, and has devoured Ovid's books.  She is equally obsessed with him -- she sees in him a great opportunity for immortality, to be famous.  They set their sights on each other almost simultaneously -- and the machinations they first have in mind give way in both of them to love.<br />The tale that follows -- with Ovid returning to Rome with Xenia -- is part love story, part mystery, a small epic of betrayal and magic and political power.  Alison's writing is achingly lyrical -- it is perfectly suited to her subject, matching her imaginings of Ovid's life with the mood left us from the genius of his own writings.  The story is enthralling and hard to put down -- and one of the finest novels I've read in some time.  The experience was so rich that I didn't want it to end -- even as it whirled to its inevitable conclusion (which, thankfully, Alison's talents imbued with not a few surprises).  <br />This novel is a real treat.	2002-06-18
US	47392054	REKEXZQ73ULA1	067942363X	896918447	The Angel Carver	Books	4	1	1	N	N	INTERESTING STORY -- COMFORTABLE STYLE	THE ANGEL CARVER is a well-written, entertaing novel -- and several of the characters are very endearing (particularly Jack, Lucille and Leopoldine).  The author's style is very conversational -- most of the book reads like an oral history, or a talk with an old friend.  Thomas is obviously very fond of her characters, but not to the point of painting them in an unbelievable light.<br />Jack -- 'the shoe man' as he is known in his neighborhood -- is a study in complete devotion.  His wife, who left him unexpectedly years before, is still at the center of his heart and his world.  His pain at her leaving has remained with him, and he has nurtured it rather than reject it or try to 'get over it'.  His life goes on, but she is in his thoughts every day -- and there is always within him a grain of hope that one day she will return.  In his spare time, he carves exquisitely beautiful wooden angels -- an entire room in his apartment is devoted to them.  They are his secret -- no one knows about them, until Lucille enters his shop and his life, like a gentle breeze of fresh air.<br />Lucille is at frayed ends in her life.  She has no direction, she has no hope of a career -- but she has dreams.  On a whim, she decides to color her hair blonde, after seeing a postcard photo of Marilyn Monroe.  After this first change, she begins to see that she and Marilyn bear other resemblances, and she begins to accentuate and 'show off' these similarities.  She enters a Marilyn look-alike contest and is spotted by Buddy, a computer graphics expert at an advertising agency.  She sees Buddy's interest in her as an escape from her to-now humdrum existence, a ticket to fame and fortune.  Buddy sees a bit more in her than she realizes.<br />The character of Buddy is one of the most heartless, mean-spirited, manipulating people you could ever hope (not) to meet.  The subsequent and incresing control he begins to exercise over Lucille's life is frightening -- even moreso in that it's all too possible and occurs too often in the world.  When Buddy's obsessions collide with Lucille's ambitions and Jack's love and devotion, the tension and suspense build and build until the inevitable climax.<br />I found most of the novel very compelling -- and, as I mentioned, I especially liked the characters of Jack and Lucille, as well as that of Leopoldine, the housekeeper of one of Jack's neighbors.  Buddy was completely reprehensible -- but a necessary element in the story.  The chemistry between the characters, and the events imagined by Thomas make for an enjoyable read.  The only problem I had was that the ending seemed a little pat, a little rushed.  This small disappointment certainly wouldn't keep me from reading another work by this author.ossible and occurs too often in the world.  When Buddy's obsessions collide with Lucille's ambitions and Jack's love and devotion, the tension and suspense build and build until the inevitable climax.<br />I found most of the novel very compelling -- and, as I mentioned, I especially liked the characters of Jack and Lucille, as well as that of Leopoldine, the housekeeper of one of Jack's neighbors.  Buddy was completely reprehensible -- but a necessary element in the story.  The chemistry between the characters, and the events imagined by Thomas make for an enjoyable read.  The only problem I had was that the ending seemed a little pat, a little rushed.  This small disappointment certainly wouldn't keep me from reading another work by this author.	2002-06-10
US	47392054	R3Q5CSAZXM1EYK	1885983298	883870513	Rara Avis	Books	4	0	0	N	N	IMAGINATIVE AND ENTERTAINING...but GARCIA MARQUEZ it's not	...and that being said, I really enjoyed this novel.  I have to agree with the review below, that the saucy language of Soraida the parrot seemed completely in character with her personality (as developed in the book) -- her language, in fact (including heaping foul insulting names upon the president), was one of the things that most upset her critics, bringing about the trial that is the focus of the book.  The entire premise would have been altered if our feathered friend's foul language had been omitted or truncated.<br />The family at the center of the story -- the Romandias -- is a privileged one, with each member possessed of his or her own unique eccentricity.  The mother sits all day rocking in a chair, rarely speaking.  The grandmother covers herself -- and anyone who gets too close -- with dusting powder.  One of the uncles manufactures bowler hats -- then, upon coming to the lightning-like flash that they're not going to be very popular in the heat of the South American tropics, switches to designing brassieres.  Another uncle is obsessed with chess -- he has games in progress (between himself and 'the manual') all over the house.  The father is a flirting, seemingly inept aristocrat.  The housekeeper believes in all manner of demons and spirits.  The two girls -- one of which is our narrator, looking back at the events here from a fever in her old age -- are unschooled, and unlike any children you will have encountered anywhere.<br />The magistrate's central question -- to which he returns again and again during the 'trial' -- is 'What sort of family is this?'  The family members look at each other and shrug helplessly -- it is up to Soraida, the amazingly, fantastically sentient parrot who has lived with them 'for generations' to speak on their behalf.  And speak she does.  She launches into nothing less than a history of the family going back for hundreds of years, intertwining it with her own view of the history of the New World -- throwing in many of her own spicy diatribes and verbal poison darts along the way, directed at those who dare to sit in judgement of 'these dreamers, these innocents', as she calls the Romandias.<br />All of the events depicted in the book take place over the course of a single day -- with the exception of a few musings by our narrator, looking back through her fever at that day 'long ago'.  The country where the story takes place is never called by name, but the Orinoco River is mentioned -- and it comes up that the children's mother came from Argentina.  Still, I was left with a definite feeling of being out of time as well as place while reading this alternately frightening and amusing tale.<br />Soraida is an unforgettable character -- certainly unlike any bird the reader is likely to come across anywhere in 'this' world.her own spicy diatribes and verbal poison darts along the way, directed at those who dare to sit in judgement of 'these dreamers, these innocents', as she calls the Romandias.<br />All of the events depicted in the book take place over the course of a single day -- with the exception of a few musings by our narrator, looking back through her fever at that day 'long ago'.  The country where the story takes place is never called by name, but the Orinoco River is mentioned -- and it comes up that the children's mother came from Argentina.  Still, I was left with a definite feeling of being out of time as well as place while reading this alternately frightening and amusing tale.<br />Soraida is an unforgettable character -- certainly unlike any bird the reader is likely to come across anywhere in 'this' world.	2002-06-08
US	47392054	R1TIFWBJ1AIJ4R	1887178651	846900802	Justine	Books	4	2	2	N	N	AN INTERESTING, GENTLY EROTIC MYSTERY	I discovered Alice Thompson's JUSTINE quite by accident -- and I'm rather glad I did.  I was put off at first when I read about its relation to DeSade's writings -- I didn't really want to read a re-hash of that.  Upon further inspection, I decided to give it a try.<br />It's not one of the best books I've read in the last year, but I thought it was quite well-written and interesting.  The narrator was just odd enough (in an English way [no offense to you UK residents!]) to make him slightly endearing, even with his rampant obsessive qualities.  Without giving away the outcome, I'll add that I suspected what it would be -- but I didn't feel this detracted much from the suspense of the story.<br />There is quite a bit of eroticism at play here -- but it's understated and subtle, not overt.  Those readers who might shy away from something labelled 'erotic', thinking to avoid soft-core (or worse) pornography need not be concerned.  The erotic/sexual content of the novel is tasteful and not given to over-wrought, photo-like descriptions -- Thompson has exercised subtlety and taste here.<br />I didn't notice that the author was a member of the Woodentops until I was well into the book -- it's nice to see someone who has had some success in one artistic genre branching out into another, exercising her talents and imagination.	2002-06-07
US	47392054	R3K5YD2OA1N7XM	0688151345	24469272	Van Gogh's Bad Cafe: A Love Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A SMALL TREASURE OF A BOOK	Long being an admirer of VanGogh's work, I was immediately interested in reading this brief novel when I discovered it recently.  It's a heavy subject for an author to attempt -- I would think it would be much 'safer' to write about characters of one's own creation, eliminating any preconceptions that might be held by the reader -- but I can recommend this book very highly.  Frederic Tuten has succeeded, I believe, in creating a believable view of VanGogh -- not a biography, but more like a snapshot or an observation.<br />The center of the book is a wonderfully enigmatic woman named Ursula -- Van Gogh's lover, friend and fellow artiste (she's a photographer).  She's also a morphine addict.  Sharing addiction with Vincent (his addictions being to pain, art, and absinthe) gives them a bond that unites them in not only love but life.  When Ursula steps through a crack in time to emerge into late 20th century Greenwich Village, the 'progress' she sees breaks her heart.  She attempts to embrace it -- as she does everything else in her life -- but ultimately feels herself drawn back to her own time, to Vincent.<br />The novel is subtitled 'a love story' -- and it is certainly that, but not in the traditional sense.  The love here is not just the romantic variety, but love of life, of creation, of joy and pain -- all of the things that besiege and bless us all.  The trick is to understand how to accept them.<br />After reading about some of Tuten's other works, I'm not really sure if I want to read them or not -- I'll have to investigate them further -- but I'm certainly glad I stumbled across this little gem.  It's a beautiful story, gently and lovingly told.	2002-06-07
US	47392054	R3LG1R874GCABM	0316197416	714107460	Talking to the Dead: A Novel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	ENDLESS MANIPULATIONS	...and that applies both to the author's style and to the characters she has created.  The two sisters that are the center of this novel ceaselessly engage in manipulating each other -- and neither one of them are very likable, which made it difficult for me to like this book any more than I did.  One of them is simply mean-spirited, and the other has the sexual appetite (as well as the sensitivity, morality and intelligence) of a gerbil.  The author is a skillful writer, no doubt -- but if I find so little redeeming in her characters, it leaves only the suspense inherent in the story to hold my interest.  There was some degree of that here -- but the endless goings-on about food and cooking allowed my interest to slide even further, a little like mentally driving on ice.<br />I felt the need to force myself to pay attention to the more important details -- the result was a not-too-pleasant reading experience.  That's too bad -- when I read the jacket description, I had high hopes for this novel.  The only real aspect of 'talking to the dead' that I found within it was the brief introduction, a soliloquy by one sister lying on the grave of the other which takes place after all of the events in the story.<br />I can recommend Sheri Reynolds incredible novel A GRACIOUS PLENTY, or even Rhiann Ellis' AFTER LIFE as more entertaining and true to this novel's alleged subject matter.	2002-06-06
US	47392054	RHGXS0SQ842BN	0375708367	851661244	Monkeys	Books	3	14	21	N	N	NO SYMPATHY FOR THESE CHARACTERS...	This is not a badly written 'novel', but I found that I didn't care a bit about any of these characters -- with the possible exception of the first couple of 'chapters' (and I put it that way because, to me, this really felt more like a collection of short stories -- and indeed, much of it has appeared in that form in various publications), when they were very young children.<br />Perhaps because of the way their parents lived and raised them, and the fact that they are so privileged financially, the children grow up to be spoiled and self-centered, with few redeeming qualities -- I know this may seem a bit judgemental, this being a work of fiction, but when I read a book, I try to identify or sympathize with at least one of the characters.  Pretty much without exception, all of the children in this book turn out to be brats who never really grow up.  There was a quote on the book's cover comparing Susan Minot's work to that of J. D. Salinger -- she's a talented writer, but this doesn't hold a candle to his work.<br />I much preferred THE TINY ONE, by Minot's sister Eliza -- her style was much warmer and gentler, and the characters she drew much more likable.  I've read a lot of good comment's about Susan's writing, so I'm still curious to check out some of her other books -- but this one disappointed me.	2002-06-05
US	47392054	RKJ32MFSRZF4J	0618084746	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	5	1	1	N	N	BRINGING THE DEPICTED ERA VIVIDLY TO LIFE	This novel -- astonishing in its power, being Carson McCuller's first -- has justly come to be considered to be a classic of modern American literature.  McCullers' creative prowess is breathtaking -- she has brought to life the 1930s American South, in a non-judgemental, gently-written yet cinematically focused style of prose that has few equals.  Her characters spring to life with all of their beauty and warts intact, all of their despair and hope, all of their love and hate, all of their joy and pain and anger.  The prejudice that existed (and, unfortunately, still exists in many places and hearts) -- against blacks, the poor, the uneducated, the politically radical -- is laid out before the reader in such a way as to allow us to make up our own minds about it.<br />Each of the characters in this wonderful novel seems to inhabit their own private pocket of loneliness.  There are those who dare to hope and dream -- chief among them the unforgettable Mick Kelly -- and they keep a tight rein on these hopes.  McCullers brings this point home well on p. 199:  '...by habit they shortened their thoughts so that they would not wander out into the darkness beyond tomorrow.'<br />The story evolves into a languidly expanding, yet unstoppable diaspora of desperate, lonely people -- all of whom seem to have at least part of their hopes for life focused on Singer, the mute who is at the center of this work.  The musical metaphors McCullers employs in Mick's life are brilliant in themselves -- but there are many brilliant things about this work, it is filled with them.<br />McCullers is a great example of a talented artist whose life was much too short -- but she has left us with an astounding body of work of the highest quality.	2002-06-05
US	47392054	R1ML0L5TFEAY49	1570627193	159972157	Confessions of a Pagan Nun	Books	5	23	26	N	N	A STIRRING VIEW OF WORLDS IN COLLISION	Kate Horsley's incredible novel CONFESSIONS OF A PAGAN NUN is one of those truly rare books that succeeds on multiple levels -- it is enthralling and entertaining, believable and full of wisdom, poetry and finely crafted prose.<br />Simply read as an historical novel, it would be an accomplished work.  The author has obviously taken great care to research and immerse herself in the world she depicts.  Her descriptions of the events and lives drawn here are crystalline and coarse at the same time -- these people led lives of hardship and illiteracy, in a beautiful but unforgiving landscape.  Survival was difficult, and was by necessity their primary concern, directing their lives with a firm hand.  The customs and living conditions of the time are laid out before the reader in almost film-like tangibility -- Horsley's descriptions of the natural world are a well-woven tapestry before which the story is played out.<br />Telling the story of a 5th century Irish nun -- raised as a pagan and converted later in life to the 'new faith', Christianity -- the book is a moving personal history.  The nun -- Gwynneve -- is a rarity among the people of her land.  She has studied with a respected druid -- Giannon, her teacher and soul mate -- and is actually literate.  She learns from him many other skills as well -- storytelling being one of the most impressive.  From her mother Murrynn she has learned the gathering and use of sundry herbs and plants from the natural world, of their healing and other properties.  Her amazement that such a thing as written language can exist, and the power that it can possess, is made clear in the author's vividly beautiful language.  Gwynneve is thunderstruck by the implied power of such a gift -- and her view of words (along with justice and truth) as the ultimate tools of power will follow her throughout her life.  She is also keenly aware of the relationship between justice and truth -- it is the power held by the druids whom she most admires, and she well recognizes its place in the world (from p.105):  'The truth will inevitably cause tremors in those who cling to power without honoring justice'.<br />Over the course of the book, the author alternates chapters containing Gwynneve's record of her own life and history with 'interruptions' detailing events occurring around her as she works in her beehive-shaped stone clochan.  Gwynneve comes across as an intelligent, sensitive seeker, yearning for a way to deal with the pain and loss in her own life, and to ease the journey of those around her.  She possesses the wisdom to see beyond the painful aspects of grief and loss, seeing it more deeply as an actual freeing agent that allows her to pass through trials and move beyond them.<br />The kindness she displays to the poor people she encounters in her journeys, and to those living near the nuns' compound, is sincere, generous and heartwarming -- but she is completely without conceit in her view of herself, a compelling and refreshing character.  Gwynneve has much wisdom within her -- although her humble self-image doesn't allow her to see it as such.  She sees the purveyors of Christianity attempting to wipe out all traces of the 'old ways' and she wonders -- with incredible honesty and acute insight -- why it can't be seen that the two could mutually, peacefully (and beneficially) co-exist.  She sees a kinship not only between the goals of the two systems of thought, but in their rituals and visual aspects as well.  She finds herself sympathetic to the Palagians -- an early Christian sect denounced by the Church of Rome as heretical, who see the sacred relationship between ALL aspects of God's creation -- and finds herself regretting that Patrick had come to drive them out of Ireland.<br />She is also intensely devoted to St. Brigid, who was herself raised by druids and converted late to Christianity.  The cloister of nuns that Gwynneve has joined devotes themselves to maintaining an eternal flame to Brigid -- and it is believed that one night each month Brigid herself comes to guard her own flame.<br />Gwynneve's talents in reading and writing are soon put to use by her sisters.  She is given the task of transcribing scriptures, as well as documents detailing the lives of Patric, Augustine and other saints.  It is her steadfast -- and heartfelt -- refusl (or simply, perhaps, her inability) to renounce the teachings of her druidic past that makes her a perceived threat to some of her sisters, and to the abbot risen to power and position who oversees their group.  She is intelligent, sensitive and strong-willed -- she will not be moved from the beliefs she holds sacred within her soul.<br />The novel is not a lengthy one, at just under 200 pages -- but it is an incredibly rich one.  It is a work of fiction, but it is presented as an ancient codex, dating from around 500 a.d., supposedly found at an excavation in County Kildare.  The author -- in her 'translator's note' at the first of the book -- lays out her purposes in relating the story to the reader, as well as her reasoning in the use of Gaelic and Latin terms that appear in the text (a very helpful glossary of these is found at the end of the novel).  The presentation is thus given a very authentic and natural feel -- this is a carefully constructed, shining work.  It is moving and poetically charged, filled with wisdom, hope and insight -- it's an experience I know I will never forget, and I can give it my very highest recommendation.id -- and it is believed that one night each month Brigid herself comes to guard her own flame.<br />Gwynneve's talents in reading and writing are soon put to use by her sisters.  She is given the task of transcribing scriptures, as well as documents detailing the lives of Patric, Augustine and other saints.  It is her steadfast -- and heartfelt -- refusl (or simply, perhaps, her inability) to renounce the teachings of her druidic past that makes her a perceived threat to some of her sisters, and to the abbot risen to power and position who oversees their group.  She is intelligent, sensitive and strong-willed -- she will not be moved from the beliefs she holds sacred within her soul.<br />The novel is not a lengthy one, at just under 200 pages -- but it is an incredibly rich one.  It is a work of fiction, but it is presented as an ancient codex, dating from around 500 a.d., supposedly found at an excavation in County Kildare.  The author -- in her 'translator's note' at the first of the book -- lays out her purposes in relating the story to the reader, as well as her reasoning in the use of Gaelic and Latin terms that appear in the text (a very helpful glossary of these is found at the end of the novel).  The presentation is thus given a very authentic and natural feel -- this is a carefully constructed, shining work.  It is moving and poetically charged, filled with wisdom, hope and insight -- it's an experience I know I will never forget, and I can give it my very highest recommendation.	2002-06-05
US	47392054	R1H1ADJ8VTQP1M	0385425686	711307870	Fishboy	Books	5	11	11	N	N	"Stir the soup -- don't let it burn"	The above advice is given to our humble narrator, Fishboy, from the mouth of a 'rumored cook' on board a ship at sea.  Fishboy has seen the cook's predecessor cleaved in two with an axe by a sailor who was angry about the food he and his shipmates had been served.  Fishboy decides that he most likely doesn't want to become a cook.<br />Author Mark Richard has definitely stirred the literary soup in FISHBOY, his debut novel.  There's a quote on the back cover from a review in ESQUIRE: \\"An eloquent fever dream, a tale told headlong in the language of incantation\\" -- and that 'fever dream' description fits this work to a 't'.<br />As I read my way through this ghost story, a fable replete with inner fables, I felt like I had been dunked into a boiling pot of Herman Melville and William S. Burroughs, illustrated by S. Clay Wilson (those of you who remember his 'perverted pirates' underground comix of the 60s will cringe at this reference), with the film directed by David Lynch.  Richard's story bubbles and seethes -- he evidently relishes giving the reader the feeling of being unstuck in both time and place, for there are characters and images in this novel that are plucked from sundry eras and locations, stirred up into an intelligent, interesting, albeit not always appetizing stew.  This is a world turned topsy-turvy, reflecting 'reality' like a cracked mirror.<br />Richard's metaphors are sometimes staggeringly beautiful and captivating -- the sea turned to shorebound landscape with mountains of waves, the land turned to ocean by the rolling tide of subterranean upheavals.  Consider this short sample from p.163:  'A loose timber from the sun's sunken wreckage floated up and was dawn on the water.  In its cool red light you could see how the waters around us were disturbed from beneath.  Globes of old air rose to the surface and shattered, spritzing blooms of kicked-up mud.  Mobs of waves rushed crowded swells, slapping faces and knocking caps off to the wind.'  Whew.<br />The narrator of the story -- we know him only as Fishboy -- starts his tale by telling us (from p.1):  'I began as a boy, as a human-being boy, a boy who fled to sea, a boy with a whistling lisp and the silken-tipped fingers of another class.  A boy with put-away memories of bedclothes bound tight about the head, knocked by a hammering fist;  the smell of cigar and show leather and the weighted burlap bag, thrown from a car into a side-road swamp.'  The odyssey he undertakes is a fantastic, circular one -- and he views it with an extremely limited perspective, realting the events that occur with both sheltered naivitee and blinding insight.<br />The novel is sub-titled 'a ghost story' -- and that it is, although it is unlike any ghost story you are likely to have come across.  Richard has imbued this work with a 'graspable' surreality -- and I'm not sure if it's the reader or the story who is doing the grasping.  This is an unusual, highly unsettling read.<br />The narrator of the story -- we know him only as Fishboy -- starts his tale by telling us (from p.1):  'I began as a boy, as a human-being boy, a boy who fled to sea, a boy with a whistling lisp and the silken-tipped fingers of another class.  A boy with put-away memories of bedclothes bound tight about the head, knocked by a hammering fist;  the smell of cigar and show leather and the weighted burlap bag, thrown from a car into a side-road swamp.'  The odyssey he undertakes is a fantastic, circular one -- and he views it with an extremely limited perspective, realting the events that occur with both sheltered naivitee and blinding insight.<br />The novel is sub-titled 'a ghost story' -- and that it is, although it is unlike any ghost story you are likely to have come across.  Richard has imbued this work with a 'graspable' surreality -- and I'm not sure if it's the reader or the story who is doing the grasping.  This is an unusual, highly unsettling read.	2002-05-18
US	47392054	R3N2XP4B16GIZF	0811823555	258473098	Things Unspoken: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	HOW NOT TO RAISE CHILDREN...	Not that the parents depicted in this story are bad people -- this is not a story of abuse, but rather a story of parental ineptitude.  The amazing thing about it -- and this is amazing when it occurs in 'real life' as well -- is the resilience of the children involved, how they wind up reaching down within themselves to draw upon their common sense and inner strength in order to carry on.<br />The story is set in the early to mid 1950s in Los Angeles -- a simpler, more naive time, when the air was still clean enough not to send the residents into coughing fits.  The MacKinnon family is made up of three children -- the narrator, Jorie, has two older brothers -- and a set of parents that apparently haven't a clue about raising children.  I suppose we should give the mother the benefit of the doubt -- she dies of polio very early in the book, and she was evidently the glue that held everything together.  With her gone, the father is about as hapless as they come.  He's not stupid -- he's a respected doctor with several Hollywood luminaries among his patients -- but his ideas about letting his children learn from their mistakes and finding their own way, instead of offering them guidance, leads to one disaster after another.<br />More than a lack of guidance, it is Dr. MacKinnon's inability to express love to his children that hurts them the most, although Jorie seems to be the only one to admit it.  There were times I felt that he completely lacked the ability to grasp the concept of love -- he repeatedly calls it an 'overused' word.  His ideas of gender roles -- typical of the 50s, and, sadly, still in evidence today -- are stifling as well.  He dumps every single household chore onto Jorie's shoulders -- 'women's work' he calls it, beneath the dignity of the 'men' of the house.<br />The author has chosen the perfect narrator in Jorie -- her outlook and views are the most stable of the household.  As she watches her family disintegrate around her, she makes some very valid, poignant observations -- and she becomes more and more determined that there will be love in her life, that she will take the reins and be her own guide.  Her determination and courage are inspiring -- and the voice given her by Ms. Sheen in a compelling and authentic one, never leeving me with the feeling that an adult was telling the story through the mouth of a child.valid, poignant observations -- and she becomes more and more determined that there will be love in her life, that she will take the reins and be her own guide.  Her determination and courage are inspiring -- and the voice given her by Ms. Sheen in a compelling and authentic one, never leeving me with the feeling that an adult was telling the story through the mouth of a child.	2002-05-16
US	47392054	R2CAC6GAUBH67D	0871138026	615558519	The Sound of One Hand Clapping	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A JOURNEY THROUGH PAIN TO RECOVERED INNOCENCE	The reviewer below who recommends that this novel not be read lightly or quickly has hit the nail right on the head.  It's not so much that the subject matter is hard to grasp -- it's the fact that the author's well-crafted images, and the portrayal of the deep emotions experienced by the characters demand the reader's full attention.  This is not something to be read lightly.<br />The novel is set in Tasmania, and centers around a young woman named Sonja Buloh, focusing on three periods of her life -- as a very young child living in the company of both her parents;  as a slightly older child living with her father, after her mother walks out on them both during a fierce snowstorm;  and as an adult, returned to Tasmania from Sydney, pregnant and filled with questions about her relationship with her difficult father, Bojan Buloh, an immigrant from Slovenia.<br />Much of the difficulty in their relationship stems from the intense pain and suffering experienced and witnessed by her father (and her mother, Maria) in their homeland, Slovenia, during World War II.  The atrocities they have witnessed have scarred their psyches forever, like white-hot wires laid across their memories.  Maria basically shuts down at long last, giving up on the dreams she has entertained about a 'new life' in Australia, seeing her husband slaving away on a hydro dam project -- work that seems to be reserved for 'wogs' like themselves.<br />Bojan has no idea of how to deal with the pain inside him.  He feels inadequately eqipped to speak of it -- words mystify and then anger him in his inability to weild them to his satisfaction.  After his wife disappears, he attempts to care for his young daughter as best as his abilities, finances and emotions will allow -- but his frustrations with his 'new land', his backbreaking work, and the horrors he has witnessed drive him to find a way to bury them all.  He finds a way to do this by drinking himself into a stupor as often as he is able -- and when he gets drunk, the anger and pain find their way to little Sonja, who suffers terrible beatings at his hands.  She resolves that when she can, she will leave and never return.<br />Sonja herself finds little to satisfy her emotionally in Sydney, where she settles as an adult.  She has a relatively good job, working in a TV studio -- nothing glamorous, but steady -- but she feels that her life is empty, without direction.  She returns to Tasmania, to visit her childhood home -- and Bojan, her 'artie' (in the old tongue) -- in an attempt to find herself, to answer some deep questions about her life.<br />The novel is mesmerizing, taking the reader on a journey both by Sonja and Bojan -- told in the present tense as well as in a series of flashback chapters, filling in the gaps, letting us in on the story of their lives, the whys and wherefores, the pain, and even a little joy.  Working through their old memories and old issues -- and the disappearance of Maria, Sonja's mother -- is a painful process for them.  Sonja almost gives up, then, almost on a whim -- or perhaps by instinct -- she decides to keep the baby she had previously decided to abort, and to stay in Tasmania.<br />The journey through all of this pain is a hard one to watch -- and it is a life-changing one for both Sonja and Bojan -- but it is a beautiful one, and inspiring.  On p.358, it occurs to Sonja that perhaps she has misunderstood the concept of lost innocence:  'There was about Bojan Buloh that strange evening something that approached the most curious innocence.  As if innocence, thought Sonja, were not something one had before it was lost, a natural state into which one was born before life sullied it forever, but rather something that could only be arrived at after one had journeyed through all the evil life could manifest.  He was lost and condemned to loss, he was damned and lived with the damned, but somehow, somehow because of what he had lived through he had acquired an innocence.'<br />Finding innocence at the end of a road built almost exclusively on pain -- this is a blessing to discover.<br />This book is entertaining and well-written -- and well worth the time it deserves to experience fully.nding innocence at the end of a road built almost exclusively on pain -- this is a blessing to discover.<br />This book is entertaining and well-written -- and well worth the time it deserves to experience fully.	2002-05-13
US	47392054	R2B8PRE0HSZG44	1582431728	147968493	The Memory Room	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	A NOVEL SHIMMERING WITH SENSITIVITY AND INSIGHT	I really don't know where to begin in praising this book -- it's simply one of the most moving, insightful, and intelligently constructed works I've ever had the pleasure to read.  The author has utilized multiple foundations and techniques -- the poetry of Paul Celan, the Psalms, the structure of the Mass, as well as her own luminous prose and poetry -- to convey the story of her narrator in such a way as to place it inside the hearts and souls of her readers.  Combining all of these elements is risky -- but Mary Rakow has pulled it off with incredible skill, leaving us with a work that is both riveting and revelatory, compelling in the deepest way.<br />Despite the title, THE MEMORY ROOM is more about coming to grips with pain -- in one's life and in the world at large -- and putting it in its place alongside the things that are beautiful in this life.  There are many images in the novel of this dichotomy -- Barbara, the narrator, keeps a self-bound scrapbook of them to remind her.  One of the most poignant is a clipping she has saved showing a photograph of a cellist playing in the street in Sarajevo (from p.32):  'Every afternoon at four o'clock, in full concert dress, mortar and machine-gun fire, his folded chair, silk tails falling to the dusty road.  A requiem for the dead.'  In the picture, to the left, sits a woman, watching the cellist, holding a baby that she doesn't even realize is dead, the shock and horror of her existence having numbed her to such an extent that she is unaware.  In this scene, as in the world, beauty and horror exist side by side.<br />Barbara remembers horrific details -- more focused as the story progresses -- of unbelievably cruel abuse at the hands of both her father and her mother.  Her older sister and her younger brother suffered as well.  Through the course of the book, we see her grapple with this pain, with the meaning that it has in relation to her life.  She is lucky to find a gentle, caring therapist -- one who appears to be in no way manipulative or controlling -- who provides the safe atmosphere which is necessary for her to conduct her healing.  Make no mistake about it -- that healing is something that each survivor must do for themselves.  There is no magic wand.  Barbara expresses time and again that she knows her healing must come from within.<br />There are many frustrations that she experiences along this road.  Her faith -- she has converted to Catholicism as an adult -- which was once her foundation, has been found by her to be cracked.  She has more of a problem with the Church than with God -- on p.288, she says to a priest, a friend:  \\"If the Church fails to address pain, then it is useless to me.\\"<br />Barbara states a truth that many hold, that children intuitively know when they are being abused or mistreated, that their greatest defense mechanism, their subconscious, puts up a wall to protect them, so that they can return and deal with a pain they cannot understand later in life, when they have the tools and emotions with which to confront it.  When the abuse is occuring, their mind colors it -- and their world -- in a way they can accept and understand.  On p. 182, she says:  '...in this way you leave behind the world in the condition you expect it to be.  Because, even as a child, you refuse to live where cruelty outnumbers kindness.  Because even as a child, you demand a moral order.  And you create it if it cannot be found'.<br />Her experiences have left her afraid of almost everything in life -- of love, of touch, of sharing, even of joy.  She is uplifted by simple things, each one a potential epiphany.  On p.131, she experiences a rain shower:  'I feel the rain cover me, like always, since childhood.  It comes down on my bare skin saying, \\"Stop, Barbara.  Feel this.  Fell how touch can be\\".'  Her joy in rediscovering seemingly simple beauties such as this is made palpable by Rakow's writing -- and we rediscover these simple beauties along with her.<br />Barbara is a musician -- a cellist -- who is unable even to enjoy the beauty of music during much of the novel.  She destroys her beloved cello by throwing it over a balcony at her home.  As her healing and self-discovery progress, however, we see her ability to appreciate the beauty of music, to revel in it, to allow it to balance the horrible things in life, return.  She finally reaches a point where she recognizes it as one of the things that can allow her to save herself.<br />There are many aspects of this work that those readers who are survivors themselves might find to be triggering -- but this can be a helpful thing, allowing them to take further steps in dealing with the pain that has made an attempt to control their lives.  The book is, I think, ultimately, one of the most uplifting works I have seen on this -- or any -- subject.  It is an involving, sensitive, intelligent portrayal of the strength and the triumph of the human spirit.<br />I must respectfully disagree with another reviewer below -- I don't believe that the concept of repressed memory, or of recovered memory therapy, has been completely debunked or rejected by either the medical community or those who have found invaluable help there.  I thought that the therapist depicted in the novel was supportive rather than controlling -- and, as I stated earlier, Barbara herself states unequivocably that her healing must come from within, that it must be her own work.  I got the impression also from the story that her memory was there before she sought therapy -- her therapist was not portrayed as having coached her or convinced her of anything other than her own strength.  It is that universal inner strength that the victim must access in order to become a survivor, to allow beauty and love and trust back into their shattered lives.ara is a musician -- a cellist -- who is unable even to enjoy the beauty of music during much of the novel.  She destroys her beloved cello by throwing it over a balcony at her home.  As her healing and self-discovery progress, however, we see her ability to appreciate the beauty of music, to revel in it, to allow it to balance the horrible things in life, return.  She finally reaches a point where she recognizes it as one of the things that can allow her to save herself.<br />There are many aspects of this work that those readers who are survivors themselves might find to be triggering -- but this can be a helpful thing, allowing them to take further steps in dealing with the pain that has made an attempt to control their lives.  The book is, I think, ultimately, one of the most uplifting works I have seen on this -- or any -- subject.  It is an involving, sensitive, intelligent portrayal of the strength and the triumph of the human spirit.<br />I must respectfully disagree with another reviewer below -- I don't believe that the concept of repressed memory, or of recovered memory therapy, has been completely debunked or rejected by either the medical community or those who have found invaluable help there.  I thought that the therapist depicted in the novel was supportive rather than controlling -- and, as I stated earlier, Barbara herself states unequivocably that her healing must come from within, that it must be her own work.  I got the impression also from the story that her memory was there before she sought therapy -- her therapist was not portrayed as having coached her or convinced her of anything other than her own strength.  It is that universal inner strength that the victim must access in order to become a survivor, to allow beauty and love and trust back into their shattered lives.	2002-05-08
US	47392054	R1R2N2LZPGBHVH	0802130305	563004784	Ficciones	Books	5	6	6	N	N	THE MASTER OPENS A DOOR...	...and others have followed, thanks to the ground-breaking work of this Argentinian genius.  Borges was right in not allowing these works to be classified as 'short stories' -- he manages to convey more in these brief pieces than most authors can cram into a 1000-page magnum opus.<br />The length of these works is extremely deceptive -- some of them are only 4-6 pages long.  If you're unfamiliaar with Borges' work, don't expect to breeze through them as you would conventional short works.  These gems are much more demanding and challenging -- and they reward the perseverence of the patient, attentive reader with results that can only be described as jaw-dropping mind expansion.<br />Many of the works have no 'plot' as such -- and as far as setting, most of them could be taking place anywhere.  These things are not important -- Borges deals with concepts, thought and language itself.  Philosophy is embracced and ridiculed simultaneously, as are pretense, lofty ideals and morality.  At his most serious moments, Borges can be more thought-provoking that the 'deepest' philosophical giants -- and there is much gentle, intelligent humor to be found within these pages as well.<br />The work of Jorge Luis Borges is a treasure chest -- when you open it, you will have a lifetime of discovery and rediscovery available to you.	2002-05-02
US	47392054	R3NJF079I40VV4	0452273404	97769473	Two or Three Things I Know for Sure	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A VITAL AND INSPIRING PIECE OF ORAL HISTORY	For those of you who have read Dorothy Allison's amazing, moving novel BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA, this book is the bridge between the fiction of that work and the reality of Dorothy's life -- and even without BASTARD as a reference, this is an immensely powerful work.<br />TWO OR THREE THINGS I KNOW FOR SURE was originally intended as a one-woman stage presentation -- I can only imagine, after reading this slim volume, how powerful that must have been.  Allison's writing talents are incredible -- she conveys the frustration, and especially the pain, of growing up sexually abused in the American South, the ignorance and poverty, the feelings of helplessness and hopelessness, in a very real way.  It would be difficult to read this book and NOT get angry at what she endured, at the way women in general were treated.  The inspiring thing is that she determined to rise above it in the only way she knew how -- by literally re-inventing her own life.  Comparing the process of doing this to the telling of a story, she makes it understandable even to those who are not familiar with the courage required by abuse victims to make the transition to being survivors.<br />Incest and abuse tear families apart and can destroy lives.  There's a very revealing story that she tells about looking through old photographs, first with her mom, then with other female family members.  There's a palpable reluctance on their part to name everyone they see in the photos -- it's as if the people there don't exist outside the pictures, their lives being so damaged that they have literally disappeared.  The subconscious protects us -- we remember what we can handle, when we can handle it.<br />On p.3, Dorothy makes a statement about 'retelling' her life as a story, re-inventing it in order to hold the pain and cast it off.  She says:  'Two or three things I know for sure, and one of them is what it means to have no loved version of your life but the one you made.'  The abuse victim can't depend on anyone else to reshape and rebuild what has been broken -- those on the outside can help and support, but only the object of the abuse has the power to decide to choose life as a survivor instead of a victim.<br />Sexual abuse and incest are extremely uncomfortable topics -- but they occur with greater frequency in our society than most people can or will admit -- and ignoring these painful issues will NOT make them go away.  Only by speaking out can courageous survivors like Dorothy Allison give hope and encouragement to those who have yet to take that first important step on the road to healing.<br />This is an honest and well-written book -- and a moving and important one.nyone else to reshape and rebuild what has been broken -- those on the outside can help and support, but only the object of the abuse has the power to decide to choose life as a survivor instead of a victim.<br />Sexual abuse and incest are extremely uncomfortable topics -- but they occur with greater frequency in our society than most people can or will admit -- and ignoring these painful issues will NOT make them go away.  Only by speaking out can courageous survivors like Dorothy Allison give hope and encouragement to those who have yet to take that first important step on the road to healing.<br />This is an honest and well-written book -- and a moving and important one.	2002-05-02
US	47392054	R1811APU35EGDV	0374105804	506006678	Some Things That Stay	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A STORY THAT GENTLY DRAWS THE READER INTO ITS WORLD	Some novels I read leave me with the feeling that I have done battle -- that the author has fought with all their might to draw me into the story, into the world that they have attempted to create.  Some of them succeed, some do not.  Sarah Willis' SOME THINGS THAT STAY definitely drew me in -- and it did it gently, but firmly, before I realized, before I even noticed the pull.  Such is the author's gift for words and for storytelling -- and for character development.<br />SOME THINGS THAT STAY tells the story of a 15 year-old girl named Tamara.  She is intelligent -- that's easy to see from her obervations of the world around her.  She doesn't consider herself beautiful -- but what girl at this age, with the exception of the most self-centered socialite, does.  It's a time of life, at that tortuous juncture between childhood and adulthood, when every doubt we have about ourelves is made larger than it really is.  To make things even more difficult for Tamara, she has no real sense of home -- her father, a moderately well-known landscape artist, feels it necessary to uproot his family and move every spring, eternally in search of another, more perfect, landscape to depict.<br />For much of her childhood, Tamara has thought that this was the case with every family.  She is amazed to learn from another child that they have lived in the same house for all of their life -- it's truly a revelation for her.  By the time of the story told so beautifully in this novel, she has come to learn that her own family is indeed different from most -- and she begins to yearn more and more for the opportunity to put down some roots.<br />Her mother's health begins to deteriorate -- she is showing more and more signs of being afflicted with the tuberculosis that killed Tamara's grandfather.  The story is set in the early 1950s -- a cure for TB had been found, but patients with advanced symptoms were still being sent to sanitariums.  Tamara's father is devoted to her mother in his own way -- despite the appearances to the contrary in his repeatedly uprooting his family -- and the imposed separation is torture for him as well as for the three children (Tamara's younger brother and sister).<br />For the first time in her life, Tamara has begun to make friends with neighbors across the road -- and the influence of that family's deep religious beliefs have a life-changing effect on her.  Her neighbors are Baptists -- her own family, mainly from her mother's influence, are 'devout' atheists.  Close interaction -- and church attendence, to her mother's horror -- with her neighbors gives Tamara a perspective on people (and the world itself) which she has never experienced.  Slowly she begins to look at things a little differently -- not being forcably converted, but given one more angle from which to contemplate the world around her.  Combined with an already existing intelligence and sense of beauty -- perhaps genetically received from her father -- she makes some astute, sensitive observations.  This, from p.140, is a good example:  'In the early morning, dew sticks to the tips of the grass, winking and glittering like diamonds.  If you stand in the right spot, you can find a dewdrop that captures the sun.  It can blind you;  a tiny, miniature sun in a drop of water.  It is the most beautiful sight I have ever seen.  The trick is finding the right spot, the right dewdrop, the right time of day.  It takes so much for things to work out perfctly, and so little for them to go wrong.'<br />Tamara's observations and thoughts on this dewdrop are a vivid metaphor for the things that are happening in her own life -- something that happens in a mere second can knock down all of the beautiful things that have been built up over time.  It is a testament to the resilience of children -- one of the miracles of life, in my opinion -- and to her own spirit that she fights to keep this from happening, to cling to the beautiful and important things that her life is laying before her.<br />Helen, the devout daughter of Tamara's neighbors across the road, sets out to 'save' her atheistic neighbors.  She takes the children to church with her, tells them about her beliefs, and more than anything, tries to show them by example what her faith has done for her own life.  Her character is sensitively drawn, and not reduced to a Bible-beating proselytizer -- as strong as her own faith is, she comes across as sincere and gentle.  Tamara respects Helen's beliefs, and is naturally curious about them -- but at the same time, her intuition gives her some pause.  At one point in the story, Helen learns that she has been exposed to TB, and, instead of leaning on her faith and recognizing her own good health, she panics at first, then, learning that she has not contracted the disease, considers herself 'saved from TB'.  Tamara views this attitude with some concern for her friend, from p. 223:  'It's not that Helen believes in God that bothers me, it's that she doesn't believe in herself, that she WAS healthy, that she can exist between prayers.'<br />The story here is a well-written, compelling one -- the characters are gently but vividly drawn, and the author's descriptive talents are put to good use.  The passages relating to Tamara's father's painting, and his ways of viewing his world and his art, are particularly well-done.  The novel contains both emotion and wisdom in healthy, but not over-large, doses -- ultimately, the book is carried along nicely by the story itself.  It's a rewarding read on several levels, and a work I can recommend highly.ying before her.<br />Helen, the devout daughter of Tamara's neighbors across the road, sets out to 'save' her atheistic neighbors.  She takes the children to church with her, tells them about her beliefs, and more than anything, tries to show them by example what her faith has done for her own life.  Her character is sensitively drawn, and not reduced to a Bible-beating proselytizer -- as strong as her own faith is, she comes across as sincere and gentle.  Tamara respects Helen's beliefs, and is naturally curious about them -- but at the same time, her intuition gives her some pause.  At one point in the story, Helen learns that she has been exposed to TB, and, instead of leaning on her faith and recognizing her own good health, she panics at first, then, learning that she has not contracted the disease, considers herself 'saved from TB'.  Tamara views this attitude with some concern for her friend, from p. 223:  'It's not that Helen believes in God that bothers me, it's that she doesn't believe in herself, that she WAS healthy, that she can exist between prayers.'<br />The story here is a well-written, compelling one -- the characters are gently but vividly drawn, and the author's descriptive talents are put to good use.  The passages relating to Tamara's father's painting, and his ways of viewing his world and his art, are particularly well-done.  The novel contains both emotion and wisdom in healthy, but not over-large, doses -- ultimately, the book is carried along nicely by the story itself.  It's a rewarding read on several levels, and a work I can recommend highly.	2002-04-30
US	47392054	R3TJOJ1RYYT7XW	0312272782	207346073	This Is Graceanne's Book: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	THE STRENGTH AND COURAGE OF CHILDREN IS AMAZING	What an amazing book!  The soul-touching story, combined with some of the most incredibly natural, infectious humor since Mark Twain, makes this one of the most uplifting books I've read in recent years.<br />The main characters -- 9 year-old Charlie, the narrator, and 12 year-old Graceanne, his sister -- are immensely endearing and admirable.  They are growing up -- along with their older sister, 16 year-old Kentucky -- living with their recently-divorced mother on the 'wrong side of the tracks' in a small town in northern Missouri in the early 1960s.  Their dad isn't in the picture much  -- an alcoholic soldier who beats their mother, he's sent packing early on in the story, and makes himself scarce after his exit.<br />The mother, Edie, would probably be diagnosed today as being neurotic or psychotic.  In her never-ending struggle to 'keep up appearances', she constantly nags her kids about their manners, the company they keep, &c.  On several occasions, she asks out loud 'What have I ever done to deserve such demon children?' She takes most of her frustrations with her life, along with her complete misunderstanding of her children, on the intelligent, precocious Graceanne.  On several occasions, she beats her until she's bloody.  It's easy to understand how the kids would come to see themselves as a burden to her -- if it weren't for their seemingly indestructable spirits.<br />Graceanne is a tough child with a reputation to match.  Near the beginning of the book, Charlie (actually short for Charlemange, which should tell you MORE about their mother), who has a correctable club foot, is musing about being bullied by the other children in town.  He dismisses worrying about the other kids with these thoughts about his sisters (from p.9):  'The two worst bullies in Cranepool's Landing were ALREADY exercising their license as family members to beat me silly -- \\"whale on you, young man\\" -- on a regular basis, leaving all other potential assailants the status of respectful, but backward, admirers of my sisters' originality and prowess.'<br />Graceanne has an IQ of 165 -- and Charlie's is a very respectable 139.  The author gives these children -- especially Graceanne, acquired by Charlie possibly simply by being in her presence -- incredible voices.  Graceanne's use of newly-absorbed vocabulary words doesn't come across as much as an attempt to show off as it does as a means of asserting her inteligence and individuality in an atmosphere that tends to crush it.<br />She is also a universally feared and respected softball player.  Some of the parents of the other kids even suspect that she's a boy.  From p.248:  'She could hit anything that came at her, and she'd slice the ball belt-high through the infield, so close to the player she was aiming at that most players couldn't possibly catch it.  A couple of parents complained that Graceanne was trying to peel the skin off their kids;  the ball would come so fast and so hard and so tight that the only sensible thing to do was to hit the dirt when they saw it coming...'<br />There are several notable events in the book -- which takes place over the course of a little over a single year, from April 1960 to July 1961.  It is the time of the Kennedys and Camelot, of the boiling pot of race relations in American coming to a head, before Vietnam -- a time of innocence and discovery, tailor-made for an imagination and spirit like that possessed by this young heroine.  After her parents' divorce, her mother is forced by economics to move her family to a 'bad' part of town.  Graceanne becomes fast friends with Wanda, the young black girl who lives next door -- which brings out some revealing comments and feelings from her mother, showing her to be anything BUT the color-blind person she has professed to be.<br />There are some tender, poignant moments in the novel as well -- both between Graceanne and her friend Wanda and between the siblings.  Little brothers at this age historically do not endear themselves to their sisters, or vice versa.  Through the course of the book, Charlie wrestles with what he eventually recognizes as growing feelings of love for his sister.  From p.275, he wonders about his feelings that are awakened by hearing Elvis' 'Love me tender':  'I wondered if I loved anyone tenderly.  I knew I loved Mike the dog, who you couldn't sing an Elvis song to because he was an animal.  And I looked around and saw Graceanne with her doll hair and her glasses and her soft skin and I thought maybe I loved her, who would laugh at me if I sang Elvis to her.  It came as a big surprise to me that I loved my sister.'<br />The novel is filled with moments like these -- but the action sequences never become over-the-top or unbelievable, and the touching moments never become maudlin.  The author transposes her vision of this story onto the page with an easy grace and eloquence, touched with humor and sympathy for these wonderful characters.  This is a story that can be enjoyed by adult readers -- and indeed, I came away with the impression that it was written for them -- and intelligent young people as well.  It's quite an achievement.not endear themselves to their sisters, or vice versa.  Through the course of the book, Charlie wrestles with what he eventually recognizes as growing feelings of love for his sister.  From p.275, he wonders about his feelings that are awakened by hearing Elvis' 'Love me tender':  'I wondered if I loved anyone tenderly.  I knew I loved Mike the dog, who you couldn't sing an Elvis song to because he was an animal.  And I looked around and saw Graceanne with her doll hair and her glasses and her soft skin and I thought maybe I loved her, who would laugh at me if I sang Elvis to her.  It came as a big surprise to me that I loved my sister.'<br />The novel is filled with moments like these -- but the action sequences never become over-the-top or unbelievable, and the touching moments never become maudlin.  The author transposes her vision of this story onto the page with an easy grace and eloquence, touched with humor and sympathy for these wonderful characters.  This is a story that can be enjoyed by adult readers -- and indeed, I came away with the impression that it was written for them -- and intelligent young people as well.  It's quite an achievement.	2002-04-26
US	47392054	R2ZREJEN9WEW16	0887846416	62697548	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A BREATHTAKINGLY BEAUTIFUL WORK	After reading Gaetan Soucy's incredible THE LITTLE GIRL WHO WAS TOO FOND OF MATCHES, I couldn't wait to get my hands on this earlier novel -- and I was not disappointed.  Soucy is one of my favorite discoveries in literature.<br />This slim volume (104 pages)  drew me quickly into the author's created world, weaving the story with a sense of mystery unlike anything I've ever read.  There is a sense of starkly-drawn, detailed images combined with an eerie sense of unreality at work here -- there were times when I didn't know which was which.  The feelings that torment the main character, organist-composer Louis Bapaume, come alive within these pages -- his pain and loss, his guilt, his love of his music, all become real within us as we experience the strange events depicted here.  Bapaume has journeyed from his home in Montreal to the small, remote village of Saint-Aldor -- but for what purpose?  The mystery of this unfolds slowly, like a delicate flower, in Soucy's hands -- we learn a little more of Bapaume's mission as we learn a little more about him, and we are left 'hanging' until the final pages.<br />I was so taken with the story and the author's style that I re-read the book immediately upon finishing it.  The overall effect is not unlike viewing a painting -- every painstakingly worked detail is even more beautiful upon re-examination.  I only wish there were more works available in English by this author.	2002-04-23
US	47392054	R1B981HTTZMHMQ	0375400605	942895358	My Father, Dancing	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A COUPLE OF SHINING MOMENTS, but...	...overall, this collection left me disappointed -- not from any lack of talent on the part of the writer, but from the choices she made about the characters she portrayed in these stories.  The only one that I enjoyed on all levels was the title story -- a touching depiction of a daughter dealing with the soon-to-come loss of her father, dying of cancer.<br />The rest of these stories focus on people I would avoid like the plague if I met them in real life.  The characters are shallow, self-centered, obsessed with sex and status.  It's no wonder that the people with whom they interact in these tales are sad and angry and generally disappointed in their lives.  There are numerous examples of this -- I'll stick to commenting in detail on the story 'Ugliest faces'...<br />In this story, a young woman named Bridget, and undergraduate, is involved in a relationship with Ethan, a graduate student that she met while attending a class he was giving.  On p.115, she shows that she has little self-esteem:  'Ethan's attention was irresetible to Bridget.  She wasn't sure why she'd been chosen, but whatever Ethan thought he saw in her, she certainly wasn't going to give him any reason to amend his opinion.'  Nice.  She's so concerned about keeping him, about what he thinks of her, that whoever she REALLY is gets shoved aside in order to maintain the image that he has of her.  This is a nice recipe for a doomed relationship.  Ethan is no prize, either -- an unbridled ego on the loose, as evinced by this from p.117:  (He tells Bridget) '\\"I can't imagin what your life was like before we met...God, who did you talk to?\\"'  He also has a nice view of sex.  Rather than being something meaningful and intimate that is to be shared and treasured by a partner, on p.128-9, his views are made known to us: 'As he'd said, sex was one way of discovering if you were compatible with someone, and if you're not, there's no use in prolonging things.'<br />'Mr. sweetly indecent' chronicles a young woman's one-night stand -- and resulting obsession -- with a man who couldn't care less about ever seeing her again.  'At the bottom of the lake' gives us a view of a young couple about to step into marriage -- this story has a few gentle moments, but, again, the male figure turns out to be insensitive and obsessed with physicality.  'Loose talk' finds a woman living with one man and pursuing a telephone-based relationship with a traveling musician.  'The trouble with Mr. Leopold' gives a very disturbing portrait of a father in whom we can see some troubling controlling tendencies lurking just under the surface.  'A day in the country' and 'Snowed in' involve teens and pre-teens discovering sex and romance -- the latter in particular involving some more unsavory characters in the form of teenage boys who are so sensitive as to view a porno video they find in front of the girls with whom they're spending the weekend, and commenting on it like they were watching a football game.<br />Broyard's writing talents are, as I mentioned above, certainly not lacking -- I just wish she would show them off on some more likable characters.man's one-night stand -- and resulting obsession -- with a man who couldn't care less about ever seeing her again.  'At the bottom of the lake' gives us a view of a young couple about to step into marriage -- this story has a few gentle moments, but, again, the male figure turns out to be insensitive and obsessed with physicality.  'Loose talk' finds a woman living with one man and pursuing a telephone-based relationship with a traveling musician.  'The trouble with Mr. Leopold' gives a very disturbing portrait of a father in whom we can see some troubling controlling tendencies lurking just under the surface.  'A day in the country' and 'Snowed in' involve teens and pre-teens discovering sex and romance -- the latter in particular involving some more unsavory characters in the form of teenage boys who are so sensitive as to view a porno video they find in front of the girls with whom they're spending the weekend, and commenting on it like they were watching a football game.<br />Broyard's writing talents are, as I mentioned above, certainly not lacking -- I just wish she would show them off on some more likable characters.	2002-04-23
US	47392054	R3LKDMCSGFO75W	0871138158	706565889	The Hiding Place	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A FAMILY SHATTERED LIKE A PIECE OF GLASS	There is an amazing amount of pain and emotion compressed into the pages of this novel.  The resilience of children in the face of unbelievable cruelty and poverty shines out of it like a beacon -- and it's just about the only light in their lives.<br />The story concerns a family living in Cardiff in the 1950s -- the father has recently immigrated from Malta and married a local girl, and they procede to have child after child in his vain and misguided attempt to produce a son.  Six daughters -- indeed, children of ANY gender -- should be seen as a blessing, but Frankie Gauci is increasingly despondent with each new arrival.  When the youngest, Dolores (called Dol by her family) is burned in a housefire as a baby, and loses the fingers on one hand as a result of her injuries, Frankie calls her a demon, blaming her for every ounce of his bad luck.  Even her sisters taunt and torment her.<br />The problem is that Frankie is a compulsive gambler -- he gambles away their home, the business in which he owns a share, even his eldest daughter.  Rarely in literature will you come across a character so lacking in redeeming qualities as this man.  As if the gambling were not enough, he's a complete brute to his wife and to his children.<br />Dol narrates the story, looking back from adulthood.  By the time of her telling, the family has been completely destroyed and torn apart, the children put into care separately, losing touch with one another as well as with their mother.  The pain and longing that Dol feels -- without seeing its sources clearly from her perspective -- build and build until the gates of her memory are opened, and the horrors of her childhood are once again available for her to view.<br />The story is a heart-wrenching one -- but a journey well worth taking.  The author's writing -- despite the dark events and subjects -- is aglow with understanding, and beauty found in some of the most unlikely places.	2002-04-18
US	47392054	R34SPMYEI3LLAN	0345442245	976227559	The Speed of Light	Books	5	10	11	N	N	INTELLIGENT AND POETICALLY BEAUTIFUL...	...the combination of which makes this an absolutely stunning debut novel.  The author addresses some important issues in a sensitive and moving way -- buried pain and fear, the way that pain can be passed on from one generation to the next, and the ways in which people can deal with this pain and fear -- making the book entertaining, touching and uplifting.<br />The story revolves around three characters -- an adult brother and sister, and their housekeeper.  The siblings' father was a survivor of Auschwitz -- they remember that during their childhood there seemed to be a 'parade' of survivors that passed through their living room, sharing their grief and their stories.  Their father, however, never shared his experiences with his family -- he carried them around inside him, in silence, for his entire life.  This pain has been passed on to his children -- although neither of them have ever addressed it directly until the events in this book.<br />Julian, the brother, is a brilliant science student -- he never completed his doctorate, but instead retreated into his own world, staying most of the time shut up in his apartment (upstairs from his sister), working on a commissioned dictionary of scientific terms.  When he ventures outside, we can see his obsessive/compulsive behavior manifest itself more visibly:  he takes the same route to the same errand on the same day of each week;  he avoids cracks in the sidewalk;  he steps on only one color of tile in the deli;  he always orders the same foods.  His sister Paula, who loves him dearly, recognizes that he is 'different' and tries to protect and care for him as much as she can.<br />Paula is an aspiring opera singer -- with a true gift for music.  When she leaves for an extended audition tour of Europe, she arranges for her housekeeper -- a woman named Sola, from an unnamed Central or South American country -- to stay in her apartments while she's gone to 'watch over' Julian, to prepare an occasional meal for him.<br />Sola is dealing with her own hidden pain and grief -- she was the sole witness to the murder of her entire village by government troups who accused them of collaborating with rebels.  She hid in the forest and heard the screams and pleas of the dying -- some were shot in the street, many were burned alive in their homes.  She also mourns for her husband, who was killed in a mining accident, and for her infant daughter who died shortly thereafter.<br />During her trip to Europe, Paula makes some discoveries in Budapest about her father -- and his family -- and his experiences (and role) in the death camp.  What she learns shakes her to her very core.  At the same time, at home, Sola has managed to begin a gentle but deep friendship with Julian, through the most effective method available to humans -- sharing honest, deep feelings.  He awakens one night to hear her sobbing in the apartment below -- and he is drawn to her to share her pain and to comfort her.<br />Sola shares her story with Julian -- and with another friend from her country -- and in doing so, has some insightful comments about being a witness.  She says that when you share your experience, your listeners become witnesses as well -- and a burden shared is a burden lightened.  Rather than feeling a new weight upon his shoulders from this sharing, Julian finds that he feels more connected than ever to another human being -- an uplifting and freeing experience.<br />There are many parallels in the story of these three to stories I have read about survivors of sexual abuse -- but the most important one is one that is universal to all human suffering.  Silence can only increase pain and grief -- sharing it can be beneficial to everyone concerned.<br />This is an amazingly moving story, a well-conceived and executed novel that was one of the most compelling reads I've come across in some time -- it's valuable on many levels.  I look forward with great anticipation to more work from this talented writer.r />Sola is dealing with her own hidden pain and grief -- she was the sole witness to the murder of her entire village by government troups who accused them of collaborating with rebels.  She hid in the forest and heard the screams and pleas of the dying -- some were shot in the street, many were burned alive in their homes.  She also mourns for her husband, who was killed in a mining accident, and for her infant daughter who died shortly thereafter.<br />During her trip to Europe, Paula makes some discoveries in Budapest about her father -- and his family -- and his experiences (and role) in the death camp.  What she learns shakes her to her very core.  At the same time, at home, Sola has managed to begin a gentle but deep friendship with Julian, through the most effective method available to humans -- sharing honest, deep feelings.  He awakens one night to hear her sobbing in the apartment below -- and he is drawn to her to share her pain and to comfort her.<br />Sola shares her story with Julian -- and with another friend from her country -- and in doing so, has some insightful comments about being a witness.  She says that when you share your experience, your listeners become witnesses as well -- and a burden shared is a burden lightened.  Rather than feeling a new weight upon his shoulders from this sharing, Julian finds that he feels more connected than ever to another human being -- an uplifting and freeing experience.<br />There are many parallels in the story of these three to stories I have read about survivors of sexual abuse -- but the most important one is one that is universal to all human suffering.  Silence can only increase pain and grief -- sharing it can be beneficial to everyone concerned.<br />This is an amazingly moving story, a well-conceived and executed novel that was one of the most compelling reads I've come across in some time -- it's valuable on many levels.  I look forward with great anticipation to more work from this talented writer.	2002-04-16
US	47392054	R389GZVVXT0TQO	067089558X	885194498	A Heart of Stone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	OPENING THE PAST IN ORDER TO HEAL	Renate Dorrestein's novel A HEART OF STONE is a marvelous work, documenting one woman's pain and her journey to heal.  The narrator tells her story from the perspective of midlife, looking back at her childhood with its painful memories -- memories that her mind has kept hidden from her, allowing only an infrequent glimpse, until she is ready to face the horror of events and come to terms with them.  It is only after doing this that she -- indeed, any survivor -- can begin to rebuild their life, to bring it out from beneath the shadows of hidden trauma.<br />The author is sensitive and intelligent in handling this tricky subject -- one that too many authors, while meaning well, wind up treating simplistically, with cliches.  The following brief passage from p.133 illustrates her understanding well:<br />'The human mind works in merciful ways:  when there's trouble brewing, you're never obliged to take in all at once what fate has up it's sleeve, even if the signs are staring you in the face.  Awareness is usually doled out to you in small, measured doses.'<br />This built-in defense mechanism -- the subconscious -- is what Ellen, the brilliantly drawn central character of this story, is struggling all of her adult life to overcome, from the time of the horrendous family tragedy depicted in these pages until sometime in her 40s, when time and life's lessons have opened doors for her to the past that allow her to view the traumatic events of her 13th year from a distance and understand that things were not necessarily as she thought.<br />Dorrestein's prose is perfect -- and her talents in drawing the reader into the life of Ellen are astounding, being firm and gentle at the same time.  Her story unfolds in a way that recreates for the reader the span of time that it takes for Ellen to discover the hidden truths of her life and understand them.  There are many bits of timeless wisdom revealed to her along the way of her journey -- and to the reader as well.  The discoveeries she makes allow her to see herself and her life in a completely new, positive light -- making this story with almost unbearable sadness within it ultimately one of the most uplifting I have read.  From p.237:<br />'Under Daddy's umbrella, he'd told me, nothing bad will ever happen to you, Ellen.  Never.  Maybe -- just maybe -- I owed my survival to the potency of his vow, to the magic mantle of his protection.  For a parent's promise of safety, given to a frightened child, must surely be the most important promise that is ever made in this life.  It's a pledge of such phenomenal power that even fate must yield to it.'<br />This is a beautifully written, sensitive and intelligent work -- it's easy to see why Renate Dorrestein is one of the Netherlands' best-loved authors.veeries she makes allow her to see herself and her life in a completely new, positive light -- making this story with almost unbearable sadness within it ultimately one of the most uplifting I have read.  From p.237:<br />'Under Daddy's umbrella, he'd told me, nothing bad will ever happen to you, Ellen.  Never.  Maybe -- just maybe -- I owed my survival to the potency of his vow, to the magic mantle of his protection.  For a parent's promise of safety, given to a frightened child, must surely be the most important promise that is ever made in this life.  It's a pledge of such phenomenal power that even fate must yield to it.'<br />This is a beautifully written, sensitive and intelligent work -- it's easy to see why Renate Dorrestein is one of the Netherlands' best-loved authors.	2002-04-11
US	47392054	R2VTG1UBAYNWPT	0805063021	310161743	Canone Inverso: A Novel	Books	5	8	8	N	N	AN ENGROSSING, HARD-TO-PUT-DOWN TALE	Paolo Maurensig's second novel, CANONE INVERSO, is told in the form of an oral history of an oral history -- it is a dark story, but a compelling and human one.<br />After purchasing an unusually beautiful antique violin at an auction, the buyer is visited in his hotel room by a mysterious stranger.  The man tells him that he was planning to bid on the instrument himself, but was unable to arrive at the auction in time.  Noticing a strangeness about the man, along with a seemingly emotional attachment to the instrument, the buyer inquires further, and the man begins to tell the story of the violin -- which involves his retelling of an older story, told to him by the instrument's former owner, sitting at a sidewalk cafe table in Vienna, long ago.<br />The story is an unusual and gripping one -- I found this novel especially hard to set aside, and finished it the day after I started it (I had to force myself to go to bed).  The story told by the man in Vienna involves himself and another boy -- both musical prodigies -- who met while attending a prestigious musucal institute in Austria just before the outbreak of World War II.  The talent that the two boys shared draws them together into a long and difficult friendship -- and the novel has much to say, cloaked within its gripping story, of the nature of friendship, its blessings as well as its pitfalls.<br />Maurensig's prose is liquid and beautiful, reproducing perfectly the sense of an oral history.  As the story unfolds before the reader's eyes -- and into the listener's ears -- aspects of the boys' lives are revealed like new days dawning over time.  This is some very effective storytelling.  At the heart of their lives is their love of music -- and they each love it in different ways, for different reasons.<br />The conclusion of the story is not altogether unexpected, but neither is it telegraphed in an obvious way -- Maurensig's talents are obvious and formidable, making this book a great joy to experience.  I look forward to reading his first novel, THE LUNEBERG VARIATIONS.I look forward to reading his first novel, THE LUNEBERG VARIATIONS.	2002-04-10
US	47392054	R3RMZS8WMK81SX	0811214591	440543224	Loving Sabotage	Books	4	13	14	N	N	THREE YEARS IN THE LIFE OF AN IGNORED CHILD	The narrator of Amelie Northomb's short novel is a young girl who has evidently been grossly ignored by her parents.  She is the daughter of a diplomat stationed in China during the turbulent early 1970s -- her family, as well as the families of other foreign government workers, is isolated in what she calls a 'ghetto', cut off from the Chinese people.  Her father's job is frustrating -- he is there to be the Belgian contact with the Chinese government, and to keep his country informed of what is going on in China, but the Chinese are not keen to let out much in the way of general information.  Even the identities of Chinese cabinet ministers is treated as a secret.<br />In the midst of this atmosphere, young Amelie (and the author, in an afterword, maintains that the story is a true one, that even the names have not been changed) is pretty much left to fend for herself during the days.  She rides her bicycle (she refers to it as her horse) through the Peking streets, offended that the Chinese guards at the compound gate do not see her as a threat to them.  She has an active imagination -- one of the blessings of being seven years old -- and sees herself in vivid roles as a hero.  The other children in the compound seem to be growing up the same way, and to amuse themselves, they engage in what they call a 'war' with the children of the East German diplomats.<br />With the arrival of a beautiful little girl named Elena, the child of an Italian diplomat and his South American wife, Amelie feels for the first time in her young life the magnetic pull of love for another person.  She is entranced and obsessively infatuated with the little girl, who is cold and distant -- which only serves to make her more of an attraction.  The lessons Amelie learns about love and friendship -- and the observations she shares with us of her world -- make this a touching, readable book.  The feeling I was left with after reading it was one of sadness -- there's a lot of loneliness and heartbreak in this story, lessons that are tough to see a child learn by herself.<br />Nothomb's writing is a little choppy -- but that is most likely appropriate in this case, given the age of the narrator.  In retrospect, I think it added some authenticity to that aspect of the story.  I definitely want to read more of this author's work in order to gain a better perspective on her style and talents.artbreak in this story, lessons that are tough to see a child learn by herself.<br />Nothomb's writing is a little choppy -- but that is most likely appropriate in this case, given the age of the narrator.  In retrospect, I think it added some authenticity to that aspect of the story.  I definitely want to read more of this author's work in order to gain a better perspective on her style and talents.	2002-04-10
US	47392054	R3DAE8O1BDW62	0375725504	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A TERRIFYINGLY EFFECTIVE DEPICTION OF TENSION IN OUR LIVES	While I didn't enjoy this book as much as I did Lightman's earlier EINSTEIN'S DREAMS, I thought it was a very effective rendering of the terror that tension can inject into our lives.  Many of us work at jobs that keeps us costantly on edge -- demands are made of our time and our intellect that, decades ago, would have seemed unthinkable.<br />Lightman's prose and plot bring these tensions to life in a very real way.  His frequent transcriptions of e-mails sent and received by the characters (even utilising, at times, the 'junk' e-mails with which all of us are plagued) can get a little annoying -- but I think that's the point.  The lives of many in our modern society are seemingly spinning out of control -- and the toll this takes is a serious and frightening one.<br />The malady suffered -- with increasingly restricting intensity -- by Bill Chalmers, the protagonist of Lightman's story, is a horrifying one.  One day, on his way to work on the subway, he suddly forgets not only where he's going, but many of the details of his life.  He sees the faces of those around him and wonders if he should recognize them.  After a harrowing day of riding the subway and hoping to recognize his stop -- which never happens -- he winds up without his briefcase, without any ID, without much of his clothing, hospitalized as a street lunatic.  He manages to escape the hospital, and, his lost memory returning slowly, makes his way home -- but he is plagued with a numbness in his hands and feet, a numbness that, over the course of the next few weeks and months, spreads througout his body and incapacitates him.  His attempts, at first, to hide his condition from his family and coworkers are portrayed in such a way that we can feel his sense of helplessness and panic, his feeling of the 'unfairness' of being stricken in such a way.<br />The novel deals in great detail with his struggle to understand what is happening to him, and with his infuriating dealings with the health-care systems, with doctors that are so afraid of making a wrong diagnosis -- or so greedy that they want to prolong the process as long as possible -- that he is subjected to test after test, specialist after specialist, in a seemingly endless road to a dignosis that MIGHT allow him to begin to actually receive treatment for his condition.<br />Lightman intersperses his storyline with flashbacks to ancient Athens, to the time of Socrates -- we see the drama around the great thinker's 'trial' and execution unfold through an on-line educational program that Chalmers' son is taking.  There are many parallels between the two stories -- both of them, obviously, fights against the hard wall of short-sighted bureacracy and mindless preservers of the status quo.<br />My main complaint about the book was that, for all of its amazingly vivid depiction and re-creation of the tension in the lives of its characters, it was a bit tedious and a struggle to get through.  I know this added to the effect somewhat, but it made it -- for me, at least -- a little less enjoyable a read than if it had been more succinct.  Lightman is a talented writer, however -- and I certainly wouldn't dismiss this work for these reasons.s, with doctors that are so afraid of making a wrong diagnosis -- or so greedy that they want to prolong the process as long as possible -- that he is subjected to test after test, specialist after specialist, in a seemingly endless road to a dignosis that MIGHT allow him to begin to actually receive treatment for his condition.<br />Lightman intersperses his storyline with flashbacks to ancient Athens, to the time of Socrates -- we see the drama around the great thinker's 'trial' and execution unfold through an on-line educational program that Chalmers' son is taking.  There are many parallels between the two stories -- both of them, obviously, fights against the hard wall of short-sighted bureacracy and mindless preservers of the status quo.<br />My main complaint about the book was that, for all of its amazingly vivid depiction and re-creation of the tension in the lives of its characters, it was a bit tedious and a struggle to get through.  I know this added to the effect somewhat, but it made it -- for me, at least -- a little less enjoyable a read than if it had been more succinct.  Lightman is a talented writer, however -- and I certainly wouldn't dismiss this work for these reasons.	2002-04-09
US	47392054	R2H5VE1ALM4BAV	0316097500	465404562	The Gospel of Judas : A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	'Who is worthy to open the scroll?'	This question echoes in the mind of Father Leo Newman when he realizes the content of the scroll he has been called upon to examine and translate, found near the dead sea, and apparently dating from the first century -- older than any existing basis for any of the gospels.  As he translates the first few lines, he realizes that the scroll is claimed as the work of none other than Judas -- and as might be expected, it presents a version of events very much at odds with those upon which Christianity has been based for nearly two thousand years.<br />Father Newman is called upon to be a part of the team examining this important artifact -- which has the potential to turn the church (and, indeed, the world) upside down -- at a time in his life when he is wrestling with his own crises, of faith, of doubt, of morality.  He has recently become involved in an affair with a married woman, the wife of a diplomat.<br />The story unfolds basically on three levels.  The main plot line takes place just a few years in the past, and involves Newman's work on the scroll and his affair with Madeleine Brewer.  In vivid flashbacks, we are also given glimpses into his family's past -- in Italy, during 1943, when his mother was married to a German officer, and engages in an forbidden affair of her own, with a Jewish instructor hired to educate the couple's son.  The third is set in the present day, and shows Newman living in the company of a young woman named Magda, come from Moravia to Rome to learn English so that she might eventually go to America -- destination of so many seeking to start a new life.  She is an artist, and we are given evocative glimpses of the world through her eyes.<br />Mawer brings all of these plots into play nicely, weaving them into this well-constructed novel in such a way as to slowly open them like blossoms, revealing the interconnections and implications of each in due time.  By the time the novel reaches its climax, they are inextricably tied together -- aspects from each are seen as connected solidly, in both a physical and a psycological sense.  The torments experienced by Leo Newman -- what to do with his life and his emotions (being a priest), and the implications of the release of the information contained in the scroll, are very relevant and real.  He holds within his power a revelation that could bring down his church.  Is is a true account of events of two thousand years ago, or is it merely the earliest known piece of anti-Christian propaganda ever discovered?  The struggles he makes, emotionally, spiritually and physically, to chart the path of his life, make for some compelling reading.  Mawer is an incredibly talented writer -- this novel, as well as his amazing MENDEL'S DWARF, attest well to that fact.aspects from each are seen as connected solidly, in both a physical and a psycological sense.  The torments experienced by Leo Newman -- what to do with his life and his emotions (being a priest), and the implications of the release of the information contained in the scroll, are very relevant and real.  He holds within his power a revelation that could bring down his church.  Is is a true account of events of two thousand years ago, or is it merely the earliest known piece of anti-Christian propaganda ever discovered?  The struggles he makes, emotionally, spiritually and physically, to chart the path of his life, make for some compelling reading.  Mawer is an incredibly talented writer -- this novel, as well as his amazing MENDEL'S DWARF, attest well to that fact.	2002-04-09
US	47392054	R9DJ4FX72ESIJ	0684846675	111727190	A Corner of the Veil	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	A WONDERFUL, AFFIRMING (at least, for me) NOVEL	I read with interest -- and a chuckle -- the complaints of some reviewers about the 'humor' in this novel.  I found humor in abundance within its pages -- not the 'belly-laugh' sort of humor that we Americans have come to expect from TV sitcoms and films, but the 'wry smile' sort of humor that is more touching and subtle.  Cosse's writing is both humorous and meaningful -- but there is a lot more to this little book than humor.<br />Interestingly enough, the book I read just prior to picking up this novel was Simon Mawer's THE GOSPEL OF JUDAS, in which a priest deals with the discovery of an ancient scroll that has the potential to destroy his church, the message within being one that repudiates all that Christianity has stood upon for nearly two thousand years.  In A CORNER OF THE VEIL, the opposite occurs -- a manuscript is received by the Casuist order in France that proves, after hundreds of years and innumerable attempts by philosophers and thinkers, the irruftable existence of God.<br />It would seem that the church would look upon such a find as a victory of sorts -- everything they have been espousing over their history has been verified on paper, in terms that anyone can understand.  And while it is true that those who read the proof -- spiritual and secular people alike -- are touched by it on the deepest possible level and reduced to tears of joy, the proof brings sheer terror and panic to the hierarchy of the church and state.  Grim predictions are made that, if the proof is made public, it will mean the end of society as we know it, chaos, the end of the world.<br />The struggles and machinations the proof sets into motion are both humorous and thought-provoking.  Without giving away any more of the story, I will simply say that I felt the message to be one, not of revelation, but of affirmation.  The novel is not anti-religious in any form or fashion that I can see -- nor is it indoctrinarial in the least.  I found it to be intelligently conceived and written, a very compelling and moving work -- one which I can recommend heartily.written, a very compelling and moving work -- one which I can recommend heartily.	2002-04-09
US	47392054	R1C5WEQPM3H0EH	0375505156	181807125	Life After Death	Books	3	1	1	N	N	DEALING WITH DEATH, GUILT AND A LACK OF LOVE	I was really wanting more from this novel -- I didn't find it hard to get through, as another reviewer mentioned below, I just found it lacking in several areas.  The characters are likable enough -- I just didn't find them interesting or sympathetic in many ways.  The woman who is the center of the story has married a man I suspect she does not really love -- and barely respects -- and put her medical career on hold in order to have a child and make a life with him.  In her case, the verb 'make' connotes a bit of a feeling of 'force' -- their life together doesn't seem to mesh, their personalities seem to be very much at odds with one another.<br />As a result, when they argue early in the book, and she tells him 'Why don't you just die?', it's not too much of a surprise when he does just that.  The rest of the story involves her coming to grips with the guilt that she inevitably feels over this unfortunate chain of events -- and her struggle to understand (and recognize) her own emotions and feelings on love and death.<br />The scenes mentioned in another review involving detailed descriptions of embalming procedures didn't offend or disgust me as much as they made me wonder why they were there at all -- perhaps to give some authenticity to one character's line of work (a funeral director).  He provides a somewhat believable catalyst for the widow's emotional and intelluctual struggle with her own demons, and works on a few of his own in the process -- but I was left with the feeling that the novel could have been much more effective (and interesting) if it were quite a bit shorter.	2002-04-04
US	47392054	R3DS8QMPZ065BY	0749395729	735593843	Continent	Books	5	5	5	N	N	THE LANDSCAPE AS CHARACTER	In Jim Crace's first novel (actually in disguise a seven stories), CONTINENT, the talented author of QUARANTINE and THE GIFT OF STONES has brought to life the very landscape of the story itself, making it the 'character' that all of the stories have in common, the thread that ties them all together.<br />It is quite an invention -- unique, alien and unrecognizable, a seventh continent, unnamed, for which Crace has conceived languages, people and cultures that will not allow themselves to be pigeonholed by the reader's preconceptions.  This device is a risky one -- and Crace pulls it off beautifully.  He has brought into being a clean, empty slate upon which to paint these tales -- and in doing so he has freed himself of societal conventions.<br />By separating the reader from the known world, Crace holds up a painting for us to lose ourselves within -- and before we know it, it becomes a mirror, and we are looking at ourselves, but in a fabulist landscape wherein our beliefs and actions are actually more sharply in focus than if they were in their usual surroundings.  Very effective.<br />I have only (so far) read the two other works by Crace that I mentioned above -- and I enjoyed them thoroughly as well.  This book is quite different -- reminding me, as one of the quotes on the book jacket mentioned, of Italo Calvino.  Not bad company for Mr. Crace to share, in my opinion -- and I'm not saying his work is derivative of Calvino's art in any way.  I'm also reminded of the recent novel by Gaetan Soucy, THE LITTLE GIRL WHO WAS TOO FOND OF MATCHES, another amazing creation of a seemingly parallel -- but just as unnamable -- space and time.<br />There is much to be gained and absorbed from this work -- it will definitely merit repeated readings.  I'm also looking forward to reading BEING DEAD and THE DEVIL'S LARDER.	2002-04-03
US	47392054	RBOA7IBN2PBVP	006250116X	664235755	The Son of Laughter	Books	5	8	9	N	N	OLD TESTAMENT FAMILY DRAMA BROUGHT TO LIFE	Frederick Buechner's training and experience as an ordained Presbyterian minister, combined with his incredible literary skills make reading his works a pure joy.  His retelling here of the story of Jacob, son of Isaac (whose name means Laughter), brings to life like no other author I've read the struggle toward God, the intra-family strife, and the sheer battle to stay alive in harsh times and an unforgiving landscape.<br />Jacob was not a perfect man -- but his yearning toward God was earnest and all-consuming, at the very core of his being.  Buechner shines the light of his talent on Jacob's life, on the right and wrong decisions and actions, on the joy and sorrow, on the good times and the difficult -- and he does so with a loving hand, making no judgements, illuminating the whole and allowing the reader a multitude of aspects upon which to meditate and ponder, drawing parallels to our own lives and times as we do so.<br />The novel depicts a time during which people struggled within themselves -- and with their traditions -- to make the transition from worshipping many gods to worshipping one, and that transition was not an easy one.  We can see the same struggle going on within our world today -- if we blur and expand the meaning of the word 'worship', we can see too many things that we value and allow to control our lives that should be peripheral to our journey, such as money, power, &c.  Early in the book, Jacob makes reference to this transition (from p. 7), speaking of the 'old gods':  'When I say that I have forgotten their names, I mean that I cannot remember their names without trying.  Maybe they also remember me.  Who knows about gods?  Maybe they have seen every step I have taken ever since.  Maybe they are still waiting for me to capp once again on their queer and terrible names.'<br />The question of the Name of God is addressed in several places in this wonderful novel.  He is referred to as 'The Fear', as 'The Sheild' -- but not given a name in the true sense of the word.  He is never referred to as 'Elohim' or 'Jehovah'.  On p. 161, during a physical struggle with God on the bank of the river Jabbok, God gives Jacob a new name:  '\\"(Your name) is Jacob no longer...Now you are Israel.  You have wrestled with God and with men.  You have prevailed.  That is the meaning of the name Israel\\"  I was no longer Jacob.  I was no longer myself.  Israel was who I was.'<br />The question of the Name of God is burning within Jacob's soul.  From the same passage:  'He was too close to me to see.  I could only see the curve of his shoulders above me.  I saw the first glimmer of dawn on his shoulders like a wound.  I said, \\"What is your name?\\"  I could only whisper it.  (God replies:) \\"Why do you ask my name?\\"  We were both whispering.  He did not wait for my answer.  He blessed me as I had asked him.'<br />On p. 184, Jacob experiences a bit of an epiphany on this subject:  '(God) refused me his when I asked it, and a god named is a god summoned.  The Fear comes when he comes.  It is the Fear who summons.'<br />There is love, loss, spirituality, adventure, struggle, life and meaning within the pages of this book -- it has been written with talent and understanding and seeking, and it is a story that may be enjoyed and appreciated on many, many levels, as entertainment and as inspiration.  I can wholeheartedly recommend ALL of Patrick Buechner's fiction as a rewarding literary experience.the true sense of the word.  He is never referred to as 'Elohim' or 'Jehovah'.    On p. 161, during a physical struggle with God on the bank of the river Jabbok, God gives Jacob a new name:  '\\"(Your name) is Jacob no longer...Now you are Israel.  You have wrestled with God and with men.  You have prevailed.  That is the meaning of the name Israel\\"  I was no longer Jacob.  I was no longer myself.  Israel was who I was.'  <br />The question of the Name of God is burning within Jacob's soul.  From the same passage:  'He was too close to me to see.  I could only see the curve of his shoulders above me.  I saw the first glimmer of dawn on his shoulders like a wound.  I said, \\"What is your name?\\"  I could only whisper it.  (God replies:) \\"Why do you ask my name?\\"   We were both whispering.  He did not wait for my answer.  He blessed me as I had asked him.'<br />On p. 184, Jacob experiences a bit of an epiphany on this subject:  '(God) refused me his when I asked it, and a god named is a god summoned.  The Fear comes when he comes.  It is the Fear who summons.'<br />There is love, loss, spirituality, adventure, struggle, life and meaning within the pages of this book -- it has been written with talent and understanding and seeking, and it is a story that may be enjoyed and appreciated on many, many levels, as entertainment and as inspiration.  I can wholeheartedly recommend ALL of Patrick Buechner's fiction as a rewarding literary experience.	2002-04-02
US	47392054	RCKN0JZRH5FIP	1566891000	466822545	Garden Primitives	Books	5	0	0	N	N	BEAUTIFUL IMAGERY DRAWN WITH A GENTLE HAND	Danielle Sosin's wonderful short stories are filled with some of the most beautiful imagery I've encountered in some time -- very impressively conceived and drawn.  She endows her characters with a very believable humanity and treats them with dignity, making no judgements about them.  There is an representational spirit at work here, one that I would expect to find in an artist or photographer -- the images and lives are presented to the reader in compelling detail, pulling us into the surroundings and the lives of the characters.  Sosin is extrememly adept at encapsulating pain, loss, love, despair, joy, longing, and more within these works -- it is an enriching reading experience, and I look forward to seeing more work from her talented hand.	2002-04-02
US	47392054	R1F58U3GFSIQE3	0892967420	223656325	The Earthquake Bird	Books	5	6	6	N	N	CHILLINGLY COMPELLING	Lucy Fly, the narrator and center of Susanna Jones debut novel, is a disturbing character -- and the tension with which the author builds this fact within the story is a sure indicator that there is a formidable talent at work here.  Lucy, a transplanted English woman living in Tokyo, is easily seen as a bit of an oddity from the start -- the things she focuses on, the way she relates the story itself, her relationships with her (few) friends and her lover.  She repeatedly refers to herself in the third person, giving an eerie feeling of detatchment to her narrative, allowing the reader to step back and watch the story unfold much like viewing a film.<br />The mystery involved is not, I think, given away as early in the book as another reviewer opined below -- the scenario to which that review occurred to me, but others did as well, and I felt the options were all believable enough that the tension held me until the book wound to its close.<br />The author's knowledge of Japanese language and culture added a lot of body to the story -- but she was careful not to let it overpower the plot.  I felt involved in the novel as it unfolded, not like I was reading a travel book.  The darkness at the heart of her narrator was palpable and real -- and she came across as both sypathetic and frightening.<br />As I mentioned, I got a very cinematic feel from the work -- if that happens, I hope it's placed in the hands of a capable director.  It could be as gripping on the screen as on the printed page.	2002-04-02
US	47392054	R1WANK4NIVLUGO	0060611782	39833886	Brendan: A Novel	Books	5	31	32	N	Y	ANOTHER GEM FROM FREDERICK BUECHNER	This is the third of Buechner's works I have read, and I have loved and devoured them all.  The author takes us breathtakingly into the life and times of Brendan, a 6th century Irish saint -- Brendan the Navigator, as he is known by many.  The language, imagery and power of this novel is astonishing.<br />Brendan's story is related here by his long-time friend and travelling companion Finn -- excepting for a section of the book that deals with Brendan's first voyage, from whom Finn is excluded by the mishap of falling overboard as the ship leaves Ireland.  This part of the story is related through Brendan's written accounts of that time.<br />Taken from his parents soon after he was born by Bishop Erc, a relation, and placed into the hands of the Abbess Ita for the purposes of his education and upbringing, Brendan seems destined for a rich spiritual life from an early age.  Forever seeking to grow closer to God, he takes as a quest the search for the earthly Paradise -- Tir na nOg (The land of the Young) of Irish legend.  He makes two sea voyages in search of this blessed land -- his adventures are many, as are the epiphanies experienced by him along the way.  On his second voyage, legend has it that he may have reached as far west as Florida -- predating even Lief Ericsson's discovery of America by 400 years or so.<br />Brendan's spiritual struggles are even more arduous than his seafaring ones.  An earth-bound human being, he is frought with contradictions -- as are we all -- and his battle to rationalize them with his deep-seeded faith is not one without its casualties, both within him and among his earthly companions.  He is wracked by guilt and sorrow as a result of the choices he makes in his life -- and his search for meaning, and for ways to serve God, continue until his death.<br />On page 216-17 of the novel he comes to a seemingly simple thought -- but one that is deceiving in its simplicity, an all-encompassing flame burning at the spiritual heart of our life's purpose.  He is in a conversation with a Welsh monk who is obsessed with transcribing the sins of the world to paper.  Gildas, the monk, says 'When the Day of Judging comes, there'll be so many sinners running about some may escape the flames altogether.  My work is to set their names down here with all their sins written after them so the angels don't let a single solitary one slip through their fingers.'  Brendan is saddened by this focus on man's evil -- his work, as he sees it, is more to help the poor folk, to offer aid and succor where he can.  The following portions of his conversation with Gildas is moving and poignant:  '(God) wants each of us to have a loving heart.  When all's said and done, perhaps that's the length and breadth of it...To lend each other a hand when we're falling.  Perhaps that's the only work that matters in the end.'<br />Brendan passes through -- and witnesses -- much suffering, as well as joy, in his life.  He has come to be honored and revered as a saint for the works he did, for the life he lived.  He would have ridiculed this elevation, most assuredly -- to his final breath, he considered himself a 'black-hearted sinner' -- but his example is one that can be followed...not one of a perfect man (for none of us can claim that), but of one who reached beyond his imperfections to embrace those around him with the love that dwells within us.<br />Buechner's novel is a joy to read and experience -- uplifting and entertaining at the same time, full of spirituality, humanity and adventure.ur life's purpose.  He is in a conversation with a Welsh monk who is obsessed with transcribing the sins of the world to paper.  Gildas, the monk, says 'When the Day of Judging comes, there'll be so many sinners running about some may escape the flames altogether.  My work is to set their names down here with all their sins written after them so the angels don't let a single solitary one slip through their fingers.'  Brendan is saddened by this focus on man's evil -- his work, as he sees it, is more to help the poor folk, to offer aid and succor where he can.  The following portions of his conversation with Gildas is moving and poignant:  '(God) wants each of us to have a loving heart.  When all's said and done, perhaps that's the length and breadth of it...To lend each other a hand when we're falling.  Perhaps that's the only work that matters in the end.'<br />Brendan passes through -- and witnesses -- much suffering, as well as joy, in his life.  He has come to be honored and revered as a saint for the works he did, for the life he lived.  He would have ridiculed this elevation, most assuredly -- to his final breath, he considered himself a 'black-hearted sinner' -- but his example is one that can be followed...not one of a perfect man (for none of us can claim that), but of one who reached beyond his imperfections to embrace those around him with the love that dwells within us.<br />Buechner's novel is a joy to read and experience -- uplifting and entertaining at the same time, full of spirituality, humanity and adventure.	2002-03-26
US	47392054	R2218EPRGR0XAQ	1559705884	723951854	The Little Girl Who Was Too Fond of Matches	Books	5	11	12	N	N	AN ASTONISHING ACHIEVEMENT	I found this wonderful book by chance in a local bookstore -- and what a discovery!  I have read reviews and commentaries about this novel that compare Soucy's literary style to that of noted Italian master Italo Calvino -- and while I think the comparison is an apt one, it is certainly not an indication that Soucy is derivative in any way.  This is a refreshingly original work, and one that is a joy -- as well as a challenge -- to experience.<br />Written in the form of a hurriedly-composed memoir, yet incredibly rich in its language and imagery, this novel slowly and masterfully lays bare the beautiful but horrifying existence two siblings experience on a large estate in the countryside, raised there in isolation by their authoritarian father.  They are not sent to school -- there is no television and no radio, and no contact with the nearby village.  Neighbors are few, and are only seen on rare occasions, at a distance.  The estate is occasionally visited by a one-legged beggar -- one of the few people the father seems to welcome into their company.  Any other visitors are kept at a distance from the children, dealt with by the father in tete-a-tetes in the fields, far out of earshot.  The children's only knowledge of the outside world comes from the seemingly thousands of books in the estate's library.<br />The narrator of the story -- one of the two siblings -- refers to the books as 'disctionaries'.  There are classic tales of chivalry and adventure to be found there, as well as texts on philosophy -- Spinoza is mentioned quite often.  The reference to these books as 'distionaries' is an important and telling revelation about the way the children perceive the world -- left to their own devices and imaginations, their view inevitably is a skewed one, and the amazing construction of language they use, and with which Soucy tells this tale, is a wonder to behold.<br />The language sometimes gets a little cumbersome and confusing -- but that, again, is a symptom of the lives led by these children, and, I believe, an effective conveyance of their situation and outlook to the mind of the reader.  It makes for a sometimes slow read -- but it's a very rewarding one.  The story itself peels away rather like the layers of an onion -- as it progresses, the reader (as well as the narrator), comes closer and closer to the heart, to the truth, of the matter.  The journey is filled with scenes of breathtaking description, of beauty and horror, of rapturous joy as well as despair.  There is a timeless quality to the story itself -- there are few details that reveal the setting, either in place or in time.  It is only toward the end of the book that we begin to get a feel for approximately when this story might have taken place.<br />Soucy's workings here are deft and masterful -- the book is crafted like a precious stone being cut by a lapidary genius.  Without having read his other novel, THE ATONEMENT (which I plan to do, and soon), I would rank this work right up alongside the creations of the aforementioned Mr. Calvino, as well as the works of Jorge Luis Borges, Carlos Fuentes and Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Again, let me emphasize -- I found Soucy's highly original and in no way derivative.  I place him in the company of these other authors only to give the potential reader an idea of the magnitude of his talent.<br />A note on the translation work involved:  given the language employed by Soucy, I can only applaud the work of Sheila Fischman, who translated this novel from the original French.  The wordplay, the puns, and the alliteration must have presented a monumental task.  Without having read the original French version, I can only imagine what a formidable task this must have been.  She also translated THE ATONEMENT -- which makes me look forward to reading it even more.<br />THE LITTLE GIRL WHO WAS TOO FOND OF MATCHES is a relatively short book -- at 138 pages -- but the intelligence, imagination and sheer creativity that are atwork within it give it a body that belies the size of this slim volume.  I'm sure that I will return to it again and again -- and that I will find even more jewels within it with each exploration.work within it give it a body that belies the size of this slim volume.  I'm sure that I will return to it again and again -- and that I will find even more jewels within it with each exploration.	2002-03-24
US	47392054	R311YKH6RB7AWY	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	13	17	N	N	POSSIBLY McEWAN'S FINEST WORK...	...and that's saying a lot, because this author has produced some of the most well-constructed, intelligent and -- my opinion -- lasting works of our time.  I knew after reading his last novel, AMSTERDAM (winner of the 1998 Booker Prize), that the follow-up would have to be something special -- and this incredible novel is definitely that.  I've read that this novel just missed winning the Booker Prize for 2001.<br />McEwan's characters are, as his readers have come to expect, expertly and completely developed here -- even without one of them acting as the narrator (until the last short section of this novel), it is as if we are INSIDE them, experiencing everything that they experience.  Placing these characters within as story that spans more than 60 years of the 20th century, a story that is simultaneously timeless and excruciatingly evocative of its setting in place and time, he has delivered a work that is both immediately entertaining and filled with insight into the human character and struggle.<br />The author's research into the times covered by the book -- especially of the British experience of World War II, both at home and in the European theatre -- adds immense vitality and meat to his story.  The horrors and emotions, the physical and mental suffering, and the pain and death of WWII are brought to life in such a way as to break your heart.  The characters' actions -- and their consequences -- played out in these surroundings bring out facets of their humanity that have many revelations and lessons for us.<br />The young girl who sets things in motion -- thirteen years old at the outset of the book -- is Briony Tallis.  Her family is well-off enough for them to live comfortably in a large house in the Surrey countryside.  The youngest of three children, she is adored by her siblings and parents (although her father is a rather distant, frequently absent figure).  She is intelligent and precocious, writing stories as a form of personal expression, which are well-received with kudos from her family.  One day in the summer of 1935, she witnesses events she does not understand -- she is a child, after all, and lacks the emotional tools with which to deal with adult situations.  Her reaction to the event is understandably skewed -- but it is her subsequent lie that sets the story rolling.  The consequences of her actions change the lives of all those around her -- and her own as well -- forever.  McEwan skillfully employs Briony's writing efforts to show us -- and Briony -- the power and responsibility that it embodies.  By the story's end -- and I'll give away no more about the plot, you should savor it for yourself -- I was incresingly unsure what was real and what was a product of her fantasies and imagination.<br />The book is of moderate length -- at 300 pages -- but a quick, stimulating read.  While it is very revelatory about human nature and the struggle -- internal and external -- of good and evil, it is extremely entertaining and compelling, another lasting literary contribution from this talented writer.  Some of his other novels -- all of which I highly recommend -- include THE CEMENT GARDEN, THE COMFORT OF STRANGERS, THE INNOCENT, and THE CHILD IN TIME (winner of the Whitbread Prize in 1987).  His writing is filled with darkness as well as light, always intelligent -- one of my favorite writers.are well-received with kudos from her family.  One day in the summer of 1935, she witnesses events she does not understand -- she is a child, after all, and lacks the emotional tools with which to deal with adult situations.  Her reaction to the event is understandably skewed -- but it is her subsequent lie that sets the story rolling.  The consequences of her actions change the lives of all those around her -- and her own as well -- forever.  McEwan skillfully employs Briony's writing efforts to show us -- and Briony -- the power and responsibility that it embodies.  By the story's end -- and I'll give away no more about the plot, you should savor it for yourself -- I was incresingly unsure what was real and what was a product of her fantasies and imagination.<br />The book is of moderate length -- at 300 pages -- but a quick, stimulating read.  While it is very revelatory about human nature and the struggle -- internal and external -- of good and evil, it is extremely entertaining and compelling, another lasting literary contribution from this talented writer.  Some of his other novels -- all of which I highly recommend -- include THE CEMENT GARDEN, THE COMFORT OF STRANGERS, THE INNOCENT, and THE CHILD IN TIME (winner of the Whitbread Prize in 1987).  His writing is filled with darkness as well as light, always intelligent -- one of my favorite writers.	2002-03-15
US	47392054	R3TWHBFJFW860T	0060611626	373407127	Godric: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	THE MOVING LIFE STORY OF A VERY HUMAN SAINT	I have only recently discovered the works of Frederick Buechner -- and I know I have found something precious and rare.  In this novel, his telling of the life story of Godric, a saint who lived from c.1065-1170, he paints a vivid, breathing portrait of a man who aspired with all his heart to know, love and serve God, struggling with his humanity every step of the way.  Godric's heartfelt prayer to Mary is a touching example of the longing he feels:<br />'Saint, Mary, virgin dame.<br />Mother of Jesu Christ, of God his Lamb,<br />take, shield, and do thy Godric bring<br />to thee where Christ is King.<br />Our Lady, maiden, springtime's flower,<br />deliver Godric from this hour'.<br />Godric never saw himself as a saint -- even though some people called him that even during his lifetime.  He saw his failings and sins as too many to bear that title -- he doubted his own entry into Paradise.  During his youth, he behaved as many his age would do -- he lusted after women; he fell victim to his own greed and exploited pilgrims, the poor, and the rich alike; he turned his back on his own family, breaking the hearts of his mother and sister when he left them to roam the world (although his love for his sister Burcwen was so great that, for the remainder of his life, he wore a cross made of two sticks, bound together by locks of her hair).  He took up with a would-be privateer and sailed the seas, amassing treasure that he brought back from time to time and stored away on the Holy Isle of Farne -- realizing only later how he had desecrated not only those shores, but his own soul as well by hoarding away the profits he so rudely gained.<br />When Godric leaves home, he is blessed for his journey by Tom Ball, a family friend.  Ball's blessing is prophetic in relation to Godric's eventual life choices.  Godric describes Ball's blessing thus:  'He laid his hands on me and blessed my eyes to see God's image deep in every man.  He blessed my ears to hear the cry especially of the poor.  He blessed my lips to speak no word but Gospel truth.  He warned against the Devil and his snares...'  Ball speaks to Godric of the choices we are given to make in our lives every day, likening them to doors that we may enter or pass by.  At the time, his words touch Godric -- but it is only later, after many life experiences, good and bad, that Godric feels them in his heart and is touched by them to the core.<br />The book covers many of Godric's adventures, including a pilgrimage to Rome with his mother, on which he is visited by a holy vision of a maiden he calls Gillian, which urges him to follow God's will more completely.  He also visits Jerusalem, walking on the same paths that Christ walked, visiting the room in which he was condemned by Pilate -- and bathing in the Jordan, perhaps one of the most life-changing experiences he is given.<br />He returns to England, and after a few more adventures, he meets with Elric, a hermit devoted to God (seen by many people as a madman), staying with him a while until the old man's death.  He sees great holiness within Elric's life.  Godric himself settles at a spot in the woods near the river Wear, a place that he had seen in an earlier vision -- it is here that he lives out the rest of his days in almost complete solitude, devoting himself to prayer and reflection, visited only rarely by outsiders.  A monk named Reginald is sent to him in order that Godric's story may be written -- and a young man named Perkin becomes his devoted servant, meeting those needs he cannot meet himself.  They are the sole witnesses to the end of his life -- and they know him better than any other.<br />Godric's longing for God -- and his strength at bearing up under what he sees as the weight of his humanity and his sin -- are tenderly and lovingly rendered by Buechner in a prose that is stunning itself in its beauty, in its breathtaking evocation of the very language of the times in which the story takes place.  So effective is the style contructed by the author for this book that the reader could well believe the manuscript dated from the era in which it is set.  It brings alive the people and places in Godric's life in an illuminating manner.<br />It is a marvel to read -- and an experience that will entertain as well as enlighten.  This is a book that I will return to again and again -- there are many riches to be found within.  Buechner is blessed with a gift for telling classic stories -- both from the Bible and other sources.  We are blessed that he shares this gift with us.contructed by the author for this book that the reader could well believe the manuscript dated from the era in which it is set.  It brings alive the people and places in Godric's life in an illuminating manner.  <br />It is a marvel to read -- and an experience that will entertain as well as enlighten.  This is a book that I will return to again and again -- there are many riches to be found within.  Buechner is blessed with a gift for telling classic stories -- both from the Bible and other sources.  We are blessed that he shares this gift with us.	2002-03-13
US	47392054	R355MW7Q0LYP6J	0312130279	84547640	The Bird Artist: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A GREAT YARN WITH MEMORABLE CHARACTERS	The events depicted in Howard Norman's novel THE BIRD ARTIST are cemented by his finely-honed style into their time and place -- and at the same time they are as universal as they could be.  It's one of those stories that could have easily been written as a mystery -- if the murderer had not confessed to the crime in the first paragraph.<br />Fabian Vas is a bird artist -- a talent that would seem to have been born in him.  He lives in Witless Bay, Newfoundland, born just at the end of the 19th century.  The village is not a wealthy one, and the people are simple and straightforward -- but not stupid.  Several of them, in fact, I would classify as being inordinately wise -- their comments about the events that transpire, as well as about life in general reveal this about them.  There is a lot of gentle humor to be found here, as well as suspense -- for, even knowing the perpetrator and the victim, it's entertaining to see how things play out.<br />Although Fabian reveals the fact that he has murdered a man at the outset of the book, the author's storytelling skills would not allow my interest to fade.  Looking back to the time before the murder, and chronicling the events that followed it, Norman weaves a rich tapestry of these characters lives for the reader -- in the hands of a sensitive director, this would make a memorable film.	2002-03-11
US	47392054	R12PKJPJ9UN7E4	0684190702	581673917	Gift of Stones	Books	5	5	5	N	N	ON THE CUSP OF ANOTHER AGE	Jim Crace's novel of the coming of the Bronze Age to a small village somewhere in Europe (I'm guessing) is an engrossing, entertaining read.  The village of his story makes its living by stone -- its inhabitants all either work it or trade the results to others.  They know little of the outside world, and feel little curiosity about it.  The story centers around a youth who loses part of an arm after being shot with an arrow -- his new handicap makes him useless to his family and neighbors, since he can no longer work.  He begins to spend more and more time wandering further and further afield. When he brings back stories of what he has seen -- embellishing it more, and with greater skill, as time goes by -- he begins to see his narrative skill as a way to make himself valuable once again.  The villagers gather around him at night, greedily drinking in his words.<br />During on of his expeditions, he comes across a woman living in a hut on a heath -- she is a widow, caring for an infant girl, scavenging what she can from her surroundings, selling herself to whoever will have her to earn food and clothing.  The boy befriends her and the child -- on repeated visits, he comes to view them as a second family.  During once such visit, her home is destroyed by farmers who dwell nearby, and she is left with nothing.  The boy takes her and the child back to his village to live with him -- and her presence there stirs up a great deal of suspicion and jealousy, making life much more difficult than the boy had envisioned.<br />Crace's tale is crafted skillfully -- his prose invokes the period in a very believable way.  The concerns, outlooks and beliefs of his characters speak more than their conversations could possibly convey about the life they lived, about the difficulties of their time.  When events transpire to bring them knowledge that things are changing in the world around them -- the advent of bronze -- they are at first scornful, then struck cold with fear.  They know the world as they know it is coming to an end.<br />Told alternately as a story around a fire by the boy as an adult, and by his daughter remembering what things were like when she was a child, this is a novel that is easy to read in one sitting -- it's that involving and compelling.  This is an enlightening tale as well as an entertaining one -- and a book I will not soon forget.ow the world as they know it is coming to an end.<br />Told alternately as a story around a fire by the boy as an adult, and by his daughter remembering what things were like when she was a child, this is a novel that is easy to read in one sitting -- it's that involving and compelling.  This is an enlightening tale as well as an entertaining one -- and a book I will not soon forget.	2002-03-11
US	47392054	R2FVF3NQMFBUSU	1573229164	322503556	In Our Strange Gardens (English and French Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A TOUCHING FABLE-LIKE STORY	Michel Quint's novella is a jewel -- a fable produced by our age about events that transpired during WWII, which has lessons for us that are timeless.  Told by a family friend to a young boy, the story touches the soul of the boy -- and the reader -- is such a way as to allow him to finally come to love and respect his father, a man he has viewed as ridiculous.  His father works as a teacher -- but it is not this that troubles the young man. What bothers and embarasses him the most is his father's seeming obsession with, from time to time, portraying a clown.  He does this at no charge for parties or gatherings -- children or adults.  The boy sees it as a useless activity -- and one for which he sees little talent in his father, which makes matters even worse for him.<br />The story told to him by his father's friend relates events that happened many years before, during WWII, when the Germans occupied France.  His father, his friend, and others, were active in the French Resistance -- not necessarily out of heroism so much as just to have something to do.  At least, at first.<br />His father and his friend conspire to blow up a generator at a railroad facility.  When the Germans look afterwards for someone to blame, to punish, for the deed, they find the boy's father and his friend hiding in a cellar -- they arrest them and throw them into a freshly-dug pit along with two other villagers.  The men are told by the Germans that if one of them does not confess to the sabotage, one of them will be picked by their captors and executed.<br />What makes this story unique from other tales of WWII -- and, indeed, of many wars -- is their encounter with one of their captors, a German soldier assigned to guard them.  As his actions -- at first puzzling to them -- reveal more and more of his mind and his personality to them, they see a way out of their predicament.  What transpires then I won't reveal -- the book is very short (around 80 pages, a quick read), and the reader deserves to experience it firsthand.  Suffice to say that the lesson learned by the men in the pit -- and, ultimately, by the boy, upon hearing the story years later -- can teach all of us something about those we see as our 'enemies'.  A particularly valuable lesson these days -- or at any time.<br />The book is charmingly and intelligently composed and written -- a wonderful addition to my library. I'm happy to have discovered it.deserves to experience it firsthand.  Suffice to say that the lesson learned by the men in the pit -- and, ultimately, by the boy, upon hearing the story years later -- can teach all of us something about those we see as our 'enemies'.  A particularly valuable lesson these days -- or at any time.<br />The book is charmingly and intelligently composed and written -- a wonderful addition to my library. I'm happy to have discovered it.	2002-03-08
US	47392054	R3OWWONOLNQXA0	1562829890	609235547	Motherhouse: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"IN THE BEGINNING WAS THE WORD..."	...and words play an integral role in this well-written, autobiographical novel of a young woman's spiritual calling to enter the Dominican Sisterhood -- and the trials, illuminations, doubts and epiphanies that are given to her over the course of a few years.<br />Unlike Remy Roucheau's novel ALL WE KNOW OF HEAVEN (following the life of a Cistercian monk in Alberta), the narrator of MOTHERHOUSE feels herself called strongly and deeply to her vocation from an early age -- it is later, after her novitiate is completed, that events transpire to bring forth the doubts that begin to cloud her once-clear path of devotion.  Coming from a large, closely-knit working class family, Jeanine is devastated by the death of her beloved brother -- and later by the sudden abandonment of her mother and siblings by her father.<br />Jeanine is also more and more troubled by her growing confusion about the nature of God, of God's love, and of her place in the scheme of things.  She feels her independent spirit blossoming -- not always a welcome event in a convent -- and she is drawn to psychological self-examination, desperately trying to find a mode of self-expression that can be reconciled with her vocation.  As her studies progress -- she is trained as a teacher -- words come to mean more and more to her.  She is pulled as if by a magnet to their deeper meanings, to the common roots that some of them share -- much of her meditation time is spent probing their interconnections and deeper, core meanings.  One of her greatest epiphanies comes when she learns that the root for the words 'have' and 'gift' is the same.  'I have a gift -- I give what I have' becomes almost a mantra for her.  It is this love of words, and their power of expression -- and her seemingly inborn predeliction for poetry -- that allows her to turn her doubts and questions into strengths.<br />The journey that she takes to reach this turning point in her thinking, in her life and vocation, is a moving one -- and the author's talent in setting in onto the page is filled with light and grace.  This is the story of one woman's journey toward fulfillment and enlightenment -- and the lesson is that this journey is different (and just as valid) for everyone who makes it.  The concept of God, of religious thought and belief, is a deep, wide sea -- each of us must dip from it as our needs require, and each of us will give back into it our understanding of it, as we are able.  We will each see it through only our own eyes, heart and soul -- no one else can explain it as fully as a professor lays out a theorem or axiom.<br />Similarly, each reader will find something a little different in this book -- and it's an experience worth holding, a journey worth taking.the author's talent in setting in onto the page is filled with light and grace.  This is the story of one woman's journey toward fulfillment and enlightenment -- and the lesson is that this journey is different (and just as valid) for everyone who makes it.  The concept of God, of religious thought and belief, is a deep, wide sea -- each of us must dip from it as our needs require, and each of us will give back into it our understanding of it, as we are able.  We will each see it through only our own eyes, heart and soul -- no one else can explain it as fully as a professor lays out a theorem or axiom.<br />Similarly, each reader will find something a little different in this book -- and it's an experience worth holding, a journey worth taking.	2002-03-07
US	47392054	R21LADAX11SBJ6	0385335660	238997941	Kissing in Manhattan	Books	3	3	5	N	N	ULITMATELY UNFULFILLING	I can recognize a formidable talent present in the work of author David Schicklet -- but this novel in disguise as a collection of short stories left me with a knawing, empty feeling.  His narrative and descriptive abilities are notable, but the problem I found was with the characters themselves -- and the stories that involve them.  The book is ostensably about love and desire and fulfillment -- but I think in most cases laid out here, lust is more of a factor than love.<br />There are some notable exceptions, of course -- the couple in 'Jacob's bath' are very devoted to each other, trouble only arriving in their lives when their simple but heartfelt intimacies are made public.  The priest that appears in a couple of the stories, Father Thomas Merchant, is a sincere, admirable character.  The young girl Nicole in 'The smoker' is, I believe, a sincere seeker at heart -- but raised as she is by eccentric parents, she has absolutely no clue as to how to go about her quest for love and happiness.  As in most of these tales, we are left at the end with no idea about how her story will end -- and therein lies another of my problems with this book.  I don't expect every single loose end to be neatly tied by a story's conclusion -- but when almost every story ends leaving me feeling like a hiker who suddlenly finds himself faced with a sheer dropoff, it begins to wear a little thin.  In several cases, when some resolution is attained at the end of a story -- or the book -- it feels forced.<br />Most of these characters are searching for something in their lives that will fill a yawning, empty space within them -- and that's not too different from most of us, I suspect.  Perhaps it's the setting -- New York City, in all of it's underground, night-dwelling, envelope-pushing 'glory', replete with bondage shops, eccentric restaurants and clubs, pretentious theatrical productions, and hedonistic denizens galore, that gives this book -- at least for me -- an uncomfortable, hollow heart.  In most of the stories, I found myself not feeling very sympathetic to the characters.<br />I wouldn't recommend staying away from this book -- it might be more your cup of tea than mine -- but, like another reviewer below, I'm glad I found it at the library and not at the bookstore.low heart.  In most of the stories, I found myself not feeling very sympathetic to the characters.<br />I wouldn't recommend staying away from this book -- it might be more your cup of tea than mine -- but, like another reviewer below, I'm glad I found it at the library and not at the bookstore.	2002-03-06
US	47392054	RW4PXEXQ6XNQ3	0060611251	892400651	On the Road with the Archangel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A CLASSIC STORY RETOLD MASTERFULLY...	...and Frederick Buechner does the job gracefully and with a gentle humor worthy of some of our most revered writers (Mark Twain comes to mind, for one).  Buechner's story is based on the apocryphal Book of Tobit, and tells the tale of two families brought together -- by fate or by subtle miracles, you be the judge.<br />A Presbyterian minister and the author of many works of fiction and non-fiction as well, Beuchner's style flows effortlessly along.  Where others -- particularly those of a ministerial vocation -- might be rempted to let their narrative become 'preachy', Beuchner never makes that mistake.  After reading just this one book, I get the strong impression that it would not be in his nature to allow that to happen.<br />The story is told from the perspective of the Archangel Raphael, who comes to earth and assumes human form -- not wishing to reveal his true identity -- in order to accompany young Tobias, son of Tobit, on a journey from Niniveh to Media and back again. He is being sent there by his father to retrieve a treasure left in the care of a former associate -- a treasure that will hopefully support Tobias and his mother for the rest of their lives.  Tobit is blind and, weary of feeling useless to his family, has prayed to God that he might die soon.<br />In Media lives another family, considerably more well-off than that of Tobit.  The one child of the family, a daughter, Sarah, has entered into a regretful contract with a demon to discourage any suitors that may approach her -- she loves her father Raguel dearly, and dreads being parted from him.  Unfortunately, the demon falls in love with her, and his 'discouragement' takes the form of killing any man she marries on their wedding night.  After seven such deaths, her reputation -- and that of her family -- has begun to suffer a bit, to say the least.<br />Buechner's novel brings these two threads together into a rich tapestry -- his characters are fleshed out perfectly, each with their own strengths, weaknesses and often humorous foibles.  The wry observations of Raphael -- along with his kind and loving nature -- add immeasurably to the enjoyment of this book.  Also, the author's characterization of the love of God -- voiced through Raphael's comments as well as throughout the meat of the story itself -- is one that should appeal to all but the most rigid fundamentalists in the Judeo-Christian world.<br />This is a book that made me feel good -- and it also caused me to reflect on my own beliefs.  It's a beautiful story, well-told -- by no means a piece of fluff.  This is an artful creation that speaks to the way we live our lives, the way we interact with and treat our fellow human beings.  It's an uplifting and enlightening experience.ngths, weaknesses and often humorous foibles.  The wry observations of Raphael -- along with his kind and loving nature -- add immeasurably to the enjoyment of this book.  Also, the author's characterization of the love of God -- voiced through Raphael's comments as well as throughout the meat of the story itself -- is one that should appeal to all but the most rigid fundamentalists in the Judeo-Christian world.<br />This is a book that made me feel good -- and it also caused me to reflect on my own beliefs.  It's a beautiful story, well-told -- by no means a piece of fluff.  This is an artful creation that speaks to the way we live our lives, the way we interact with and treat our fellow human beings.  It's an uplifting and enlightening experience.	2002-03-05
US	47392054	R2DZK7D696SIP1	0618094997	306036293	All We Know of Heaven	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AN ENJOYABLE AND BELIEVABLE VIEW BEHIND THE WALLS	Remy Rougeau -- a Benedictine monk himself, and therefore eminently qualified to tell this tale -- has given us on the 'outside' a literate, compelling look at life in a monastery in Manitoba.  Set in the present day -- beginning during the Nixon debacle in the 70s -- it allows the reader to gain quite a bit of valuable understanding about the cloistered religious life.<br />Narrated by Paul Seneschal -- 19 at the story's outset -- the story allows us to take a life's journey with a young man who finds himself called to a vocation that will shut him off from the outside world, with few and rare exceptions.  This is not to say that he finds his calling to be a dramatic, obvious one -- from the very beginning of the novel he is beseiged with doubts, and they recur all through the story.  This aspect alone makes the story believable for me -- for how could he be human and not feel doubt from time to time?<br />The novel is told in a series of stories that follow Brother Antoine (his montastic name, given to him by his abbot) through his years at St. Norbert Abbey, located just outside of Winnipeg, Manitoba.  The other monks in the cloister provide a wide -- and endearing -- range of characters to fill this novel.  We see them as intensely devotional -- as one would expect -- but also as beset with human frailties and traits that underscore their humanity.  They complain about their conditions, about the food, about the enforced silence and isolation -- they bicker bitterly with each other and with their abbot at times.  But they are ultimately bound together by their love for each other, and their devotion to God, which is, after all, at the heart of not only their vocation, but of their lives.<br />The story is told skillfully and dramatically (but not overly so).  The author's narrative skills are great and graceful, and his descriptions of the surrounding countryside -- and the monk's interaction with and view of it -- are vivid and life-giving.  This fine novel is entertaining as well as uplifting -- a great read.entertaining as well as uplifting -- a great read.	2002-03-05
US	47392054	R6N5XH1VDYJBH	0802134475	362678636	Rain	Books	5	11	11	N	N	a child'd world in a the jewel of a drop of RAIN	It's amazing the amount of emotion and insight Kirsty Gunn has managed to contain in this brief book.  The story is told from the point of view of 12 year-old Janey, looking back as an adult on a pivotal summer spent at a house nestled by a lake in New Zealand with her little brother Jimmy and her parents.  Janey loves her brother intensely -- at times she seems more like a parent to him than a sibling.  He is the center of her life, and they spend hours and hours together each day, away from the house, away from their parents, usually in or near to the lake.<br />The parents in this story are not abusive -- at least, not overtly -- and it seems that they do love their children.  Abuse isn't always about hitting and bruising -- it can be just as devastating when it is psychological.  I was left with the impression that they were unsure how to act as parents.  Each night of the summer, in the lake house, they host parties for their neighbors and friends.  If the children don't manage to slip upstairs to their rooms unnoticed, they are called upon by the parents to perform for the guests -- or at the very least, to be put upon display.  The impression is given that they did this to give substance to their union, to show that their were indeed fruits to their marriage, that it was real.<br />Through a marvelous style and pace of narration, the young Janey allows us to peer into her life -- we see and hear and feel things very believably and accurately from her perspective.  The success of Gunn's attempt to do this attests to a formidable talent within her.  The physical details are given life by the child's voice and observations -- and it rings very true, focusing on the things that a child would notice, the things that speak to her through the years and curtains of memory.<br />I can heartily recommend this book -- I enjoyed it much more than the author's THIS PLACE YOU RETURN TO IS HOME collection of short stories.	2002-03-01
US	47392054	R2WP0EFATVR6NG	0802136826	38412368	This Place You Return To Is Home	Books	4	1	1	N	N	AN ACHING EMPTINESS PERVADES...	The stories in this slim volume are well-written and evocative -- but they left me with an empty feeling.  The sadness that pervades all of them was one that was -- at least in my mind -- never resolved.  Each of these tales gives the reader an aptly drawn portrait of someone in emotional turmoil and pain, at a turning point in their life, or looking back at a particularly traumatic episode -- but none of them really offer and resolution or conclusion.  Gunn's descripitive powers are strong -- she accomplishes a lot in this regard with a minimum of words.  As a result, most of the stories brought to mind rough sketches by an artist -- with the reader left to imagine the fuller details.<br />I was left in most cases wondering what would happen to the characters from this point onward -- and for affecting me that deeply I gave the book four stars. I'm curious to check out one of her novels.	2002-02-26
US	47392054	R1DBWLYNZM0VO8	0743203232	615922706	The Nature of Water and Air	Books	5	7	8	N	N	POWERFULLY EVOCATIVE -- INTENSELY EMOTIONAL	This is one of the most moving novels I've read in some time -- and a difficult one to review without giving away the core of the story.  Don't worry -- I'm not going to do that.<br />McBride's writing is like filigree -- incredibly detailed and delicate, filled with much more than it would seem the words on the pages could contain.  The young woman at the center of the story, Clodagh Sheehy, is made as real as the water and air of the title -- and just as hard to hold.  Her mother was a tinker -- one of the traveling people of Ireland -- described so aptly as 'never easy in the world of houses'.  Clodagh is one of a pair of twin girls -- her sister, Mare, is sickly and weak, and is as much her other half as could be imagined.  When she dies, and Clodagh's mother turns her love away from her surviving daughter, the young girl's world is rocked and crushed.  Her life becomes a struggle to reclaim the love of her mother -- and to understand this dark, complicated woman, so different from all those around her.  Her quest also has at its heart a yearning to know her father.  It leads her away from the comforts of her home and into the world of the traveling people -- where things she never imagined are opened to her.<br />There is a gentle sadness that pervades Clodagh's story -- but it never becomes maudlin, and that is to the credit of this fine writer.  There is also great beauty and mystery in abundance here -- told in shimmering prose that makes the Irish landscape and culture come alive for us.  This book is a treasure chest filled with life and wisdom.  An old tinker woman -- a character who appears only briefly toward the end of the story, says it well:  'Buadhann an thoighde ar an gcinneamhain' -- 'Patience conquers destiny'.	2002-02-26
US	47392054	R3P1DH4LAS1HRN	0452281946	392488758	Tomato Red	Books	5	14	15	N	N	WOODRELL IS A MASTER OF CADENCE	In this novel, the second I have read by this author, Daniel Woodrell shows once again how adept he is at capturing not only the rhythms of his characters' speech, but of their very lives.  Involved, as they are, in petty crime, prostitution, drug use and gut-wrenching poverty, they are nonetheless shown to be human beings -- capable of love and devotion, even feats of heroism.<br />The main character, Sammy Barlach, is someone you'd probably cross the street to avoid if you saw him coming.  The trouble for a few of the folks in this dark novel -- both poignant and comic, by turns -- is that they DON'T see Sammy coming, or at least they don't recognize the brooding power that lies within him, built up over years and years of clinging by his fingernails to the bottom rung of the social ladder.<br />Sammy finds himself involved with -- and subsequently taken in by -- two siblings and their mother.  Jamalee and her brother Jason are poor but engaging -- they have dreams of getting out of the Venus Holler section of West Table, MO.  They have a plan, and now it involves Sammy.  Their mother, Bev, described aptly on the inside jacket, 'can turn a trick as easily as she can roll a joint'.  Jamalee and Jason abhor (no homonymic pun intended) her prostituional lifestyle -- but at the same time that they resent her for this, they love her, and ache for what she has become.<br />Jason is a handsome young man -- the female customers at the hair salon where he is apprenticed swoon over him.  His sister tells Sammy that 'grown women in the grocery store throw their panties at him with their numbers written on them in lipstick'.  Jason's major difficulty in fitting in with his small community is that he happens to be gay -- a lifestyle not embraced by small-town Southerners, to say the least.  At seventeen, it is a fact of his life with which he is still wrestling -- and it is painful to watch, as it must be for those who go through it in life.  How can he be true to himself and somehow manage to suffer the slings and arrows hurled at him by an intolerant society?<br />The novel's action builds well to an almost unbearable pitch -- the other Woodrell novel I've read, THE DEATH OF SWEET MISTER, is equally gripping.  Sammy narrates the story very effectively -- his phrasing and turns of speech are jewel-like -- and for an uneducated petty criminal with few social graces, he's a pretty amazing philosopher.<br />The book's finale is as heartbreaking as it is inevitable -- but this is definitely a journey I can recommend.  Woodrell is a master -- I'm going to read everything by him I can find.somehow manage to suffer the slings and arrows hurled at him by an intolerant society?<br />The novel's action builds well to an almost unbearable pitch -- the other Woodrell novel I've read, THE DEATH OF SWEET MISTER, is equally gripping.  Sammy narrates the story very effectively -- his phrasing and turns of speech are jewel-like -- and for an uneducated petty criminal with few social graces, he's a pretty amazing philosopher.<br />The book's finale is as heartbreaking as it is inevitable -- but this is definitely a journey I can recommend.  Woodrell is a master -- I'm going to read everything by him I can find.	2002-02-19
US	47392054	R2HBBO52UGCS24	1559705671	264418034	The Salt of Broken Tears	Books	5	2	2	N	N	COMING OF AGE IN AN UNFORGIVING LANDSCAPE	I have to agree with one point made by the reviewer below -- Michael Meehan's darkly powerful novel is a difficult read.  I can usually finish a book of this length in 2-3 days -- this one took me over a week.  Upon reflection, after I completed the book, I believe that this effect might well have been part of the author's purpose in choosing the style in which he composed this work.  His descriptions are intense and lenghty at times -- in many ways they are as relentless as the harsh environment in which the story takes place.  They necessitate the reader taking a more leisurely pace. Things change slowly, imperceptably, in the Australian bush, and the style in which the novel is written hammers that home in the mind of the reader -- parallelling the way the characters' lives are pounded into shape by the forge, hammer and anvil of the world in which they live.<br />Set in the sparsely-settled Ausstralian bush country, THE SALT OF BROKEN TEARS  is a heart-wrenching, moving coming-of-age story.  The boy who is the focus of the novel -- we never learn his given name, and only toward the end of the book is even a nickname revealed -- lives on a farm with his parents, his sister, his silent aunt and a couple of motley workmen.  One day, in the killing heat of the afternoon, seemingly out of a dusty whirlwind, a young woman wanders into the yard, clad only in a thin, torn dress.  She is taken in by the family -- ostensibly on a temporary basis -- and soon becomes a fixture, touching the lives of everyone who lives there in ways they will not soon forget.<br />The girl -- Eileen -- is beautiful and alluring, a free spirit unlike anyone they have ever met.  The boy's sister Hannah sees in her a friend and older sister for whom she has ached. Auntie Argie -- silent and believed lost in a world of her own for many years -- finds a kindness in Eileen's touch that brings back memories from her youth, full of joy and sadness and love.  The mother eyes Eileen with suspicion and derides her for her 'loose ways' as a bad example for the children.  Joe Spencer, one of the farmhands, strong and mostly silent, full of the pent-up loneliness and rage that comes along with the isolation in which the farm exists, finds in her an outlet for his lusts and aches.  She is an enigma, a mystery to all.<br />The boy is smitten by Eileen from the moment he sets eyes on her, the day she wanders in out of the bush.  He is a young teenager, entering into manhood in an unbelievbaly harsh environment, whose only experience with women has been within his own family.  Eileen is keenly aware of her affect on him -- she pushes him gently down a sensual path, but kindly.  I never got the impression that she was teasing him or treating him with any sort of cruelty or thoughtlessness.<br />Tensions build up on the farm -- it becomes increasingly clear to all concerned that Eileen's presence there is something that must end if order is to be restored and maintained. However, when she disappears, leaving only a bloodied dress and bits of other clothing, arranged like a deflated doll in the barn, any order that was expected to return to their lives is effectively blown to bits.<br />Convinced that she has left in the company of Cabel Singh, a travelling Indian peddler who wanders the vast wasteland from farm to farm, town to town, in his horse-driven cart, the boy takes his old horse, his pup, his rifle and what provisions he can carry and sets out to find them.  The journey he takes -- and the incredible array of characters he meets -- through a landscape that Meehan describes in amazing, photographic detail, forms the bulk of this novel.<br />The boy experiences things he has never imagined -- and through it all we slowly learn more and more about him.  The author metes out this information like rationing water on a desert journey.  As the book progresses, we come to know him intimately -- and we come to understand more and more about his relationship with Eileen, and about his need to find her, to reach some sort of closure.<br />The book is apparently set in the years between World War I and World War II -- there are references to battles in Turkey, horrific memories of combat by veterans of that theatre of conflict -- some of the descriptions of the treatment of prisoners are gut-wrenching.  Australia was still sparsely settled in this era -- the distances between farms and towns in the region was great.  Many of the areas were not even connected by telephone wires yet.  There were law enforcement authorities, to be sure -- but their resources were stretched to the limit, and in many instances things were 'handled' by those involved.  The times were hard, the land was harsh -- and these things and more begat horrible violence in people.  There is violence in this novel -- but there is also reality, and tenderness, and yearning, and love, and knowledge, and truth.<br />A difficult read, definitely -- but one I think that merits attention, which is ultimately both a richly rewarding and entertaining experience.d about his need to find her, to reach some sort of closure.<br />The book is apparently set in the years between World War I and World War II -- there are references to battles in Turkey, horrific memories of combat by veterans of that theatre of conflict -- some of the descriptions of the treatment of prisoners are gut-wrenching.  Australia was still sparsely settled in this era -- the distances between farms and towns in the region was great.  Many of the areas were not even connected by telephone wires yet.  There were law enforcement authorities, to be sure -- but their resources were stretched to the limit, and in many instances things were 'handled' by those involved.  The times were hard, the land was harsh -- and these things and more begat horrible violence in people.  There is violence in this novel -- but there is also reality, and tenderness, and yearning, and love, and knowledge, and truth.<br />A difficult read, definitely -- but one I think that merits attention, which is ultimately both a richly rewarding and entertaining experience.	2002-02-16
US	47392054	R2Q6SIMUKPGFIS	037570633X	274088858	The Tiny One: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A SHIMMERING ACHIEVEMENT OF VOICE AND PERSPECTIVE	Eliza Minot has accomplished something with her first novel that many attempt, but few achieve.  She has placed the task of telling this story in the hands on an eight year-old narrator -- and she has given this young girl a vibrant, authentic voice and outlook, free from all the pretentions and predispositions that an adult would most likely bring along.<br />Eight year-old Via Revere is the youngest member of an emotionally healthy, loving, upper middle class family living by the sea in a small town near Boston.  Their house is large and comfortable.  Their friends and neighbors are, by and large, friendly, caring people.  The family is well-off enough to summer in Maine and take ski trips to New Hampshire during the winter school holidays. The parents get along well for the most part, and the siblings are close.<br />All of this comes tumbling down around Via when her mother is killed in an accident.  Her questions are many and true to her age -- what will the world be like without her mum?  What happens to all of the thoughts her mum had about her, now that she's dead?  Not allowing her narrative to drift into morbidity, Minot brings out the heart and soul of her young narrator gently -- we journey along with Via, going over the day of her mum's death in a depth of detail of which only a child is capable of undertaking, searching for some key to understanding the enormity of what has happened.  Memories of the day of her mum's death open many other doors to events that have occured since she was a tiny girl.  All of this is part of the process by which Via comes to grips with the nature of love, life and death -- and it is a gift for us to be able to accompany her.<br />This could easily have been written as a depressing book -- but the innocence and wisdom of Minot's Via will not allow that to happen.  There is a shining glow that surrounds her childhood -- that should, indeed, surround the childhood of ALL children -- that illuminates all aspects of life, including death, in such a way as to reveal the beauty in all of it.<br />I think it would be hard for someone to read this book and not come away loving this child -- and gaining some valuable wisdom in the process.uding death, in such a way as to reveal the beauty in all of it.<br />I think it would be hard for someone to read this book and not come away loving this child -- and gaining some valuable wisdom in the process.	2002-02-06
US	47392054	R2CLWKI7QRW9BB	0399147519	784516648	The Death of Sweet Mister	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A MASTER, PAINTING WITH WORDS...	...and the colors on Daniel Woodrell's palette are dark ones.  The characters in this novel spring to life before our mind's eye -- at once outrageous in their eccentricities and completely believable in their human frailties.  Woodrell has an earlier novel that bears the subtitle 'a country noir' -- and that's a perfectly coined description for this work as well.  These characters are bottom-feeders and cast-offs, doing what they can -- often out of sheer desperation -- to survive and scramble even a step or two up the perceived ladder of success.  God help anyone who gets in their way.<br />'Sweet Mister' of the title is an overweight thirteen year-old boy.  He is being raised by his continuously-drunk mother, Glenda, and her brutal, short-fused husband, Red.  Red's parental connection to Sweet Mister is dubious at best -- the boy's mother alludes often and not-so-subtly to another, earlier man in her life, most likely the boy's father.  She dotes on the boy -- she flaunts her overt sexuality at him in extremely inappropriate ways -- and this further aggrivates Red's feelings of jealousy toward the boy.  Glenda's overly sexual posturing toward her son is most likely born out of her frustration in her relationship with Red -- a cruel man who claims her sexually when his needs arise, then tosses her aside to consort with whatever woman he fancies at the moment.<br />Red and his slimy buddy Basil -- his partner in a series of increasingly squalid and violent petty crimes -- draw the boy into their schemes, using him more and more overtly as the plot progresses.  The tension in the story builds and builds with the power and implied danger of an old neglected boiler -- something has to give, and it does.<br />Woodrell has done his homework.  I'm not sure where he calls home, but one thing is certain -- he's spent some time around characters like these, and he has learned to endow them with incredibly authentic voices and life-patterns.  He knows them well -- and he creates them with vitality and looses them into this story with respect, allowing them to act out their parts in a manner true to themselves and to their situation.<br />It's not a pretty story -- but it's a gripping, well-written one, and VERY hard to put down.  Without resorting to cheap stereotypes, the author has created an amazingly cinematic work here.  I see Angelina Jolie as a perfectly sultry Brenda, Michael Rooker as the steaming Red, and Billy Bob Thornton as the weasely Basil.  Let the filming begin...I think Billy Bob's directorial touches would be nice here also.<br />I suggest after reading this book that you take a drive out into the countryside, find a lonely, unlit dirt road, and get out of your car.  See if you don't find yourself looking over your shoulder, missing the comfort of the city lights.  They don't call it 'country dark' out there for nothing...ates them with vitality and looses them into this story with respect, allowing them to act out their parts in a manner true to themselves and to their situation.<br />It's not a pretty story -- but it's a gripping, well-written one, and VERY hard to put down.  Without resorting to cheap stereotypes, the author has created an amazingly cinematic work here.  I see Angelina Jolie as a perfectly sultry Brenda, Michael Rooker as the steaming Red, and Billy Bob Thornton as the weasely Basil.  Let the filming begin...I think Billy Bob's directorial touches would be nice here also.<br />I suggest after reading this book that you take a drive out into the countryside, find a lonely, unlit dirt road, and get out of your car.  See if you don't find yourself looking over your shoulder, missing the comfort of the city lights.  They don't call it 'country dark' out there for nothing...	2002-02-05
US	47392054	R75YG8WEFRXF6	0449912353	803550802	Turning Stones: My Days and Nights with Children at Risk A Caseworker's Story	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A BOOK TO BREAK YOUR HEART -- AND GIVE YOU HOPE	I put off reading this book for some time after it was recommended to me -- I knew how potentially devastating the stories it contains might be.  While they are heartbreaking to read, I think they should be required reading for every adult in America who cares about the welfare of children -- it's vital that people realize the hell that some of these kids are going through, to feel it and breathe it, in order to open society's eyes to it and get these kids some help.<br />The case histories here -- with the names changed, of course, for all the right reasons -- are tragic, and cover everything from mothers on drugs to children falling victim to the psychoses of their parents, to physical and sexual abuse.  These are horror stories -- and they don't always have happy endings.  The book is an intelligent, sensitive look at the Child Welfare System of New York City -- and I'm sure it can be applied to other large cities as well -- and gives the reader a good look at what's both right and wrong with the system, how it works and how it doesn't.  Even when it works, it can be traumatic -- children are removed from homes, separated from their parents who have neglected or abused them, and placed in group or foster homes, hopefully to receive the care and love they deserve.  When it doesn't work, it can be deadly.<br />Marc Parent worked in the system in NYC for a little over four years -- caringly, with the sole purpose of helping these kids.  The things he saw and experienced took their toll on him -- and understandably so -- causing him to doubt his own motives, resolve and abiities.  The thing that saved him -- the thing at the core of his caring -- is that making a difference in the life of just one child on any given night is so very important.  It doesn't work out that every child with whom the system deals is saved -- and that's the tragic part -- but making a difference, one child at a time, adds up to good work.  The fact that he stuck with it as long as he did shows how much he cared.  The successes show that the system -- flawed as it may be -- serves an important, vital purpose.  The fact that he has written this important book in order to share his experiences shows us how important this issue is to him.<br />I cannot imagine a reader not being moved to tears by these accounts -- and drawing hope from the fact that there are people out there like Marc Parent working for these kids' lives.<br />This books is slated to be the next directorial project from acclaimed actor/director Tim Roth, who gave us the incredible film THE WAR ZONE.  With Roth and Parent collaborating on the screenplay, it's sure to be a powerful piece of work.ows how much he cared.  The successes show that the system -- flawed as it may be -- serves an important, vital purpose.  The fact that he has written this important book in order to share his experiences shows us how important this issue is to him.<br />I cannot imagine a reader not being moved to tears by these accounts -- and drawing hope from the fact that there are people out there like Marc Parent working for these kids' lives.<br />This books is slated to be the next directorial project from acclaimed actor/director Tim Roth, who gave us the incredible film THE WAR ZONE.  With Roth and Parent collaborating on the screenplay, it's sure to be a powerful piece of work.	2002-01-28
US	47392054	R3V7P8SKUM27EX	1555973221	744973327	Loverboy	Books	5	9	9	N	N	THE IMPORTANCE OF BALANCE IN LIFE...	Modern music composer Philip Glass used a word from the language of the Hopi Indians as the title of one of his most well-known works:  KOYAANISQATSI, which means 'life out of balance'.  His music was written as the soundtrack to a film filled with an incredible array of images illustrating this concept -- images of a world, a life, out of balance with nature and with itself.  In LOVERBOY, Victoria Redel's amazing novel, we can see that concept borne out in the life of a mother whose concepts of love and motherhood are so twisted by her own experiences as a child that what should be one of a child's greatest blessings, a mother's love, is turned into pure obsession -- a smothering, stifling blanket.<br />The woman -- whose name we never learn, we can only think of her as 'Paul's mother' -- has good intentions, and, I believe, does actually love her son very dearly.  She herself was brought up as an only child by parents who were so in love with each other that their daughter could only feel excluded from their lives, even during 'family' activities.  As she narrates her story, often returning to scenes and memories from her childhood, it's easy to feel the pain of loneliness and the 'cold' love of her parents, who very obviously had not the first clue about raising a child, about the lifelong effects their behavior would have on their offspring.<br />There is a particularly poignant description by the narrator of walking with her parents -- Sybil and Marty, she calls them.  Her father strides along the sidewalk, confident and sure of himself -- her mother walks beside him, turned toward him as she walks forward in the same direction, as if she is trying to be closer still.  Their daughter trails along behind, feeling ignored to such an extent that she feels she must put on a show, affecting an exaggerated, palsic limp and a twisted facial grimace, so that passers-by will find their attention drawn to her, instead of the loving couple -- her parents -- who walk in front, oblivious to her performance.<br />As Paul's -- 'Loverboy's' -- mother, she strives for as long as she can to keep him separate from other, 'lesser' children -- and he is, to be sure, an intelligent child, possessed of knowledge of many things of which his peers haven't a clue, thanks to his mother's attention to his 'education'.  They frequent libraries and museums together, immersing themselves in books of all types -- no subject is off-limits, and his knowledge of things sometimes shocks and surprises others.  He can recognize Bach's 'Brandenberg concerto', or a painting by Van Gogh or Degas -- things of which many adults are ignorant.<br />The tension in the narrative increases dramatically as the mother has to work harder and harder to keep him from 'mingling with lesser children'.  The onset of his school years fill her with unspeakable dread -- she feels trapped and desperate.  As we read this story, we feel that something must inevitably 'give' -- we can feel it coming.<br />Redel's language is shining and luminous.  Even the 'rational insanity' (book jacket description) of Paul's mother is, in some ways, understandable -- we can feel empathy and compassion for her.  We can feel the terror that exists within her at the thought of turning her child over to the care of others -- even for just the length of a school day.<br />It is Paul's mother's extreme over-reaction to the upbringing she experienced at the hands of her parents that causes her to swing too far in the opposite direction.  There are no indications in the story that she  -- or Paul -- has suffered any sexual abuse, or physical maltreatment.  The way she has chosen to live her life -- especially the narrative describing the process she chose to become pregnant when she decided she wanted a child -- shows us all too clearly that psychological abuse and neglect can be excruciatingly damaging, while never leaving a welt or a bruise as a tell-tale warning sign for outsiders.<br />A very harrowing yet delicately composed and executed story -- moving and powerful, not one I will soon forget.g yet delicately composed and executed story -- moving and powerful, not one I will soon forget.	2002-01-23
US	47392054	R1Z63O8RKN5W4P	1582431329	979063761	Ambassador of the Dead	Books	5	6	6	N	N	PROCESSING THE SINS AND PAIN OF THE PAST	We are each a storehouse of the accumulative pain that we have experienced, handed down to us by our parents and other significants -- how we recognize, view and process that pain draws the boundaries of the way in which we live our lives.  Some people have a tougher time dealing with their past than others -- and when, as in the case of Nick Blud, the narrator of Askold Melnyczuk's dark, rich and extremely moving novel, that pain is multiplied by the suffering endured by his parents and grandparents, it's an almost insurmountable task.  To make matters even more difficult for him, his parents -- Ukranian immigrants who have made a new life in America -- are reluctant to give many details about what they experienced in WWII in their homeland.  This novel chronicles Nick's journey inward and backward to fill in the gaps in his family's past and come to terms with them.  There are several characters in the novel who are making this journey -- and, indeed, aren't we all, to varying degrees?  Each of them has their own discoveries to make, their own ghosts to exorcize, their own truths to define.  Some of them are up to the challenge -- and some of them fail in devastating ways.<br />The mood of Melnyczuk's novel is dark -- but the writing is very rich, expressing the desperation and hope, the pain and joy, the terror and exultation in which  his characters are awash.  The emotions here run strong and deep, and they are honestly -- at times brutally so -- portrayed.  A premise is expressed toward the end of the novel -- and this isn't a spoiling revelation, don't worry -- about the nature of darkness and light in our lives:  'Death, a writer once observed, is the dark backing a mirror needs if we are to see anything'.  We need one in order to know and appreciate the other.<br />I found the novel to be modrately compelling for the first 100 pages -- then it picked up steam and held me unrelentingly in its grip for the duration of the story.  The characterizations are full, developed vivdly, and memorable.  This is one of the more unusual tales I've come across in the last year or so -- very entertaining on one level, and very instructive on another.  I'll have to check out the author's earlier novel, WHAT IS TOLD -- I'm extremely impressed with the skills and style he has shown in this book.ll, developed vivdly, and memorable.  This is one of the more unusual tales I've come across in the last year or so -- very entertaining on one level, and very instructive on another.  I'll have to check out the author's earlier novel, WHAT IS TOLD -- I'm extremely impressed with the skills and style he has shown in this book.	2002-01-20
US	47392054	R3DYSKVJ5LB6FA	0393319938	905132921	Dream Children: A Novel	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A STORY THAT PUTS US IN A HORRIFYING PLACE...	...into the mind and life of a pedophile. Told from the point of view of Oliver Gold, a seemingly mild-mannered, brilliant writer and philosopher, A. N. Wilson's book does just that -- and it is truly a scary place to visit.<br />Gold lives in a house of women -- all of whom consider themselves to be free-thinkers.  It is the consequence of this self-image that they allow themselves to be taken in emotionally by their male lodger, to the extent that they are unable -- or unwilling -- to see the ongoing relationship he shares with Bobs, a precocious pre-teen girl, the daughter of one of the women in the house.  A dark, well-written story with disturbing moral implications, Wilson's novel is one that will -- hopefully -- make most readers uncomfortable to the point that they will do some serious thinking and investigating on their own into the subject of child abuse in our society.<br />I don't think for a moment that Wilson has made his protagonist seem gentle and harmless, intelligent and ingratiating, in order to make him seem less evil, or to propose in any way whatsoever that this sort of behavior is acceptable -- he's done it in order for us to realize how insidiously a perpetrator such as Gold can 'hide in plain sight'.  There are truly monsters such as this who live among us, preying on children.  As disturbing as this novel is, maybe it will cause all of us to open our eyes a little wider, to be more watchful and vigilant in protecting those who look to us for care and love.	2002-01-16
US	47392054	R396I9TSZ4D7X1	1578063183	88240544	A Nurse's Story and Others	Books	5	2	2	N	N	COMPASSIONATE, COMPELLING HUMAN PORTRAITS	The stories in this volume are incredibly well-written and moving -- Peter Baida was obviously a talented, caring writer.  I was unfamiliar with him or with his work until I chanced upon this book on the 'recent fiction' shelf at the library -- I'm really glad I picked it up.<br />The stories here deal with people we might consider to be ordinary until we read about them.  The love of his characters gives Baida the power to flesh them out fully, to make them whole -- to make us care about them.  Mostly told as reflections on their pasts, they depict turning points -- times at which we are given a choice to make in our lives or in our actions.  The characters don't always make the best choices -- as in real life, hindsight is much clearer that our 'real time' options -- but Baida passes no judgements upon them.  He presents the facts of their lives and allows us to draw our own conclusions.  Even those characters whose choices are poor -- even reprehensible -- are not without their redeeming qualities, rather like the human beings who populate this globe.<br />Baida's narrative powers are immense -- and his characters live and breathe on the pages before us.  The title story in this collection was the first-prize recipient of the 1999 O. Henry Award -- and well-deserved.  It's a shame that Baida died shortly after receiving this honor.  We can only imagine what literary gifts he would have given us since then -- but this volume is a fine testament to his wonderful talent.	2002-01-15
US	47392054	R3EB3P9C3MZYJO	0786708522	533259864	Mouthing the Words	Books	5	10	10	N	N	TACKLING A TOUGH SUBJECT WITH SENSITIVITY...&amp; HUMOR	This is a novel of breathtaking power, vitally relevant, sensitive and intelligent.  The author has wisely endowed Thelma -- her narrator -- with a wry sense of humor, which makes the book much less of a 'downer' than it might be otherwise.<br />The story follows Thelma from about the age of six into adulthood.  She is an odd child, to say the least -- but there are many reasons for this, becoming more and more apparent as the narrative unfolds.  An unplanned child ('the result of premature ejaculation', as she puts it), Thelma senses quite early in life that her parents are not quite sure what to do with her, how to love her, how to nurture her.  She is ridiculed and treated as a burden by her mother, sexually abused by her father, and generally confused and intimidated by the world.  She has problems making friends -- with the exception of Janawee, Ginniger and Heroin, all imaginary, all endowed by her imagination with the talents and abilities she sees lacking in herself.<br />Her life is not an easy one -- the author's knowledge and writing  skills are crucial in bringing this story to life.  Through her sensitive and intelligent story-telling, we see the shyness, insecurity, self-loathing -- and more -- that Thelma's upbringing has engendered within her.  It's a heartbreaking thing to watch -- but, thanks to the above-mentioned sense of humor that persists in Thelma, as well as her strength (which she can't always see herself) and determination, the tale is not too dark to endure.  It's extremely heartening to see her go through the process of finding out who she is, accepting the things about her that she is able to admire, and re-invent the parts of herself that she wants to change.  It's a difficult task for someone to go through in life -- and it's at times a difficult story to read, but Gibb pulls it off in a way that is not only entertaining, but enlightening, uplifting and empowering as well.  It's an amazing achievement -- and it's one of the best books I've read that deals with this subject.<br />Read this book and become absorbed in Thelma's story and life -- and be proud of her.  Read it and know that, yes, these things really happen.  Read it and open your heart to those who live them.  They are heroes.<br />Also recommended:  BITTERROOT LANDING by Sheri Reynolds and BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA by Dorothy Allison.I've read that deals with this subject.<br />Read this book and become absorbed in Thelma's story and life -- and be proud of her.  Read it and know that, yes, these things really happen.  Read it and open your heart to those who live them.  They are heroes.<br />Also recommended:  BITTERROOT LANDING by Sheri Reynolds and BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA by Dorothy Allison.	2002-01-11
US	47392054	R1COJPIQSHCAZI	0141002018	124161593	The Sooterkin	Books	5	1	2	N	N	AN ABSORBING FABLE	Tom Gilling's novel THE SOOTERKIN is simply a wonderful book.  Told in the form of a fable, the tale has much to teach us about love and kindness, greed and exploitation.  Set in Australia in the early 19th century, Gilling's use of language is absolutely perfect in depicting his marvelous characters, making the era and location come alive, and generally setting the tone for this story.  His characters are at the same time larger than life (in their sometimes absurd eccentricities) and wholly believable, given the amazing variations of the human animal.  The book reads fairly quickly, but I would advise the reader to savor it and take it a little slower than temptation might dictate -- there's a lot here to enjoy.	2002-01-10
US	47392054	R2BO5Y8Z1DCOHI	0618139311	674634562	Island	Books	5	1	2	N	N	POWERFUL AND UNSETTLING...	Jane Rogers' ISLAND is one of those books that has the power to scare you -- REALLY scare you, deeply.  The vividness with which she develops her narrator, Nikki Black, brings her to life in such a way as to make her VERY real.  This book is quite a wild ride -- a look inside the life and thought processes of someone who has been so damaged by her life experiences that she decides that finding and murdering her birth mother is the only way to escape the fear that governs her psyche.<br />Rogers writing skills are very effective -- not only in developing and fleshing out her characters, but in setting the scene and mood of the novel as well.  It's almost as if we are actually there with Nikki on a small island off Scotland's coast, feeling the wind and smelling the salt in the air, submerged in the seemingly uncontrollable emotions and events that lead inexorably to the book's well-crafted, unconventional climax.<br />This is a very engrossing novel, hard to put down -- it reminded me in some ways of Patrick McGrath's masterful SPIDER (which I HIGHLY recommend as well).  Pass ISLAND by at your peril -- but be prepared for a gripping experience.	2002-01-09
US	47392054	RVGMO8VA7ENVT	0312277032	717819417	Rainlight	Books	5	22	23	N	N	MORE SUPERB, TOUCHING WRITING FROM ALISON McGHEE	The first novel I read by Alison McGhee, SHADOW BABY, touched me more than most of the books I have read in the last few years.  After reading RAINLIGHT, I'm certain that I've discovered a writer who ranks as one of my favorites.<br />This novel is set in the same small town as SHADOW BABY, in the Adirondacks, in upstate New York, and features some of the characters who appeared briefly in the other novel.  One of the most appealing things -- at least to me -- about McGhee's writing is her ability to create such believable, LIKABLE characters.  This is not to say that all of them are perfect, that they make no mistakes in their lives -- they are human, after all.  The author builds her characters so completely -- and yet so gently -- that we come to know them at depths which allow us to understand WHY they act as they do, to see the good that exists in all of them, making it easier to overlook or forgive their foibles.<br />RAINLIGHT is a unique look at the way human beings deal with death and loss -- and that should not imply that this is a depressing, maudlin book, for there is much happiness and joy and love contained in these pages.  It is rather a caring look at our humanity, at the things that are really important, about how we remember those who have touched our lives and are no longer with us in the flesh -- a story about remembering.<br />Even though the two novels are connected in setting and some characters, I don't think it's necessary to read one before the other -- but if you enjoy well-written, touching fiction, please read them.  If you pass these by, you're missing an incredible experience.	2002-01-08
US	47392054	R16O2XQP4MXJ7K	0395488907	671205590	Shelter	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A DARK STORY...AND NOT A PRETTY ONE	It's never easy to see -- or imagine -- the innocence of children snatched away by the events in their lives, particularly when it involves adults who are so controlled by the evil they have become that they cannot see the difference between preying on children or other adults.  The young people who populate Jayne Anne Phillips' novel SHELTER are living in an era when most Americans felt the perceived stability and perfection of their lives threatened for the first time -- the early 1960s.  Kennedy was in the White House, and the nuclear arms race was in full swing.  The Soviets had attempted to install missiles in Cuba, and the reactionary American conservatives were instilling fear into every citizen they could touch -- Communists were supposedly hiding everywhere.  Children were touched by the concerns and fears of their parents -- innocence was bound to be tainted and fade soon enough, without any help from predators.<br />Phillips' writing is extremely effective in fleshing out her characters -- not an easy task with a cast which is, overall, so young.  The adults that take part are equally well-drawn -- human, succumbing to temptations and weaknesses, one of them (no spoilers) incredibly evil.  Yet even this evil character is, to some extent, understandable, given the relevant background articulated by the author.  It's no excuse for the deeds committed, but it allows the reader to understand the source of the evil involved.  There are surprises, too -- and this is a welcome aspect of the author's gift -- in several of the characters.  We find they are capable of things we cannot imagine as we come to know them -- and that at least one is not as bad as we are tempted to believe.<br />The plot of the book was developed nicely, at a pace that made me tempted to read it in one sitting -- I'm glad that I took the time to give it more thorough attention.  A very rewarding and entertaining read.	2002-01-08
US	47392054	R2JR16EPQJ1SFN	0786866667	342022559	In the Company of Angels: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	roses et chocolat...et les anges...	This is one of the most amazing, uplifting books I've had the pleasure to read in the last few years. The book is extremely dreamlike and very cinematic -- in the hands of a sensitive director, this would make a memorable, extraordinary film.<br />Marie Claire is a seven year-old Jewish girl, living in a small village in France, near the Belgian border.  The time is World War II.  She is an orphan -- she was forced to watch as the Nazis stood her parents in the village fountain and shot them, their blood flowing over and over through the fountain for all to see.  Marie Claire is being raised by her grandmother, who breeds beautiful hybrid roses and irises.  Her village is bombed, destroying almost everything, and killing everyone except this amazing child.  She returns to the ruins of her grandmother's home and hides herself in the cellar, covering herself up to her neck with dirt, afraid of being discovered by the Nazis.  After several days, she is found by two nuns from a convent just across the border in Belgium, who have come in search of survivors.  They are amazed to find her alive -- and they are puzzled by many things about her, including the ever-present scent of roses. When they take her back with them to their convent, miracles begin to occur, centered around the young girl.  At first the sisters think they are imagining things -- but as events transpire and unfold, they come to believe that 'the child saved is an angel of God', a prophecy told by the mother of one of the nuns.<br />The author's style is a gently flowing stream of images.  She uses an incredible economy of words to convey so much in this wonderful first novel.  I read this book twice in succession last week, and I could find not a single sentence in excess -- a remarkable achievement, extremely effective and deeply moving.<br />The story told here deals with some of the most horrific brutality that men have ever perpetrated on their fellow human beings -- but there is a beauty here as well, a gentle affirmation of faith and hope.  This is an absolutely beautiful work of art -- tender and at the same time astonishingly powerful.l, a gentle affirmation of faith and hope.  This is an absolutely beautiful work of art -- tender and at the same time astonishingly powerful.	2001-12-26
US	47392054	R294HYJX0C13N6	0140081577	854465760	Learning by Heart: Short Stories (Penguin Short Fiction)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	TOUCHING, WELL-DRAWN PORTRAITS	It's too bad for fans of Margot Livesey's fine work -- and, indeed, for readers in general -- that this book is so hard to find.  Her first published work, a collection of short stories, LEARNING BY HEART is on the surface entertaining and well-written -- on a deeper level, one can easily see the the subtleties of style and the incredible abilities of Margot Livesey already at work.<br />As readers of her novels have come to appreciate, Ms. Livesey is extremely adept in developing her characters.  In the 10 stories contained in this volume, she unfolds them before us as one would gently turn the pages of an old, fragile book -- carefully, with great respect.  Their lives open before us naturally -- they are never shoved into our face or our consciousness.  This, combined with an attention to detail, fulfilling descriptive talents and an imagination from which springs compelling and completely believable stories and situations, make this an excellent showcase for a fine writer -- an entertaining and satisfying reading experience.<br />There is a particular grace with which she portrays human relationships -- be they among relatives or lovers or friends.  With insight and compassion -- and never turning a blind eye to the harder areas of the human psyche -- she allows the individual facets of these relationships to merge into beautiful gems, much as a jeweller exercises skill in transforming what appears to be a rough stone into a thing of incredible beauty.  Her characters are not drawn as saints -- they have their foibles and drawbacks -- they are human beings, no more and no less.  Through the lens of a writer's camera, Margot Livesey allows us to see that humanity in them.  We may not approve of everything they do, but we can see that humanity -- and from that sight grows understanding.  This ability is one that has continued to grow and mature throughout her writing.<br />Since the publication of this collection in 1986, Margot Livesey has published several excellent novels -- if you're unfamiliar with her work, you should get busy.  You're missing some of the best, most intelligent contemporary fiction available anywhere.lent novels -- if you're unfamiliar with her work, you should get busy.  You're missing some of the best, most intelligent contemporary fiction available anywhere.	2001-12-19
US	47392054	RAATFDV4KDHHA	014029855X	869606125	The Missing World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	ANOTHER FINE NOVEL FROM A NEW FAVORITE...	After reading THE MISSING WORLD, I am now firmly entrenched as a fan of this fine writer.  Livesey's characters are absolutely superb -- each with their own very believable and thoroughly developed idiosyncracies -- and, as in her other novels, she sets each of their stories in careful and deliberate motion before weaving their paths together.<br />The main player here is Jonathan -- not a very likable bloke, very manipulative.  He has botched his relationship with his girlfriend Hazel by an infidelity that sends her packing in anger to a place of her own.  A stroke of misfoetune for her -- and, as he comes to see it, a stroke of luck for himself -- gives him a rare opportunity to erase the past and re-write it in his favor.  At least, that's what he tries to do -- his success or failure I'll leave open to the potential reader.  The suspense in Livesey's work is amazingly palpable -- and this novel is no exception.  Thankfully, she's smart enough -- and respects her readers' intelligence enough -- not to allow herself to produce predictable plot twists or endings.<br />In writing the character of Jonathan, the author is exceptionally adept at getting us right into his head, his thought processes.  We can hear how he not only deceives those around him, and plots to do so from minute to minute -- we can hear him deceiving himself.  The insights she paints into his visions of violence against those who might blow his schemes out of the water are chilling as well.<br />There are lessons here about the mistakes we make in our lives and what we should attempt to do about them -- all wrapped up in a very entertaining, skillfully developed and brilliantly conceived story.  I still like EVA MOVES THE FURNITURE the best of what I've read of her works -- but everything I've read by her is first-rate.	2001-12-16
US	47392054	R14TDEQZDBL9XD	0374184054	654533738	Last Things	Books	4	13	13	N	N	WELL-WRITTEN, COMPELLING, UNSETTLING...	The reader gets a definite sense of the narrator's age in Jenny Offill's debut novel, LAST THINGS.  She views everything she relates to us openly and unflinchingly, as a child would do -- and the things she doesn't completely understand are naturally colored with the myths and stories told to her by her increasingly deranged mother, combined with extrapolations produced by her own imagination.<br />Grace's parents are incredibly mismatched.  Her father is a complete realist, grounded in science and fact.  He works as a teacher in the small Vermont town in which they live, until his objections to a prayer circle held within earshot of his office draw the disfavor of the administration.  At one point, we are told that he proposed to her mother with the words 'You're the only woman I've met that will never bore me'.  That's certainly proven to be true.  Her mother -- who is an ornithologist working at a nearby raptor center -- is given to spouting native myths and beliefs from the far corners of the earth, sometimes obviously inventing stories on the spot to validate her increasingly odd actions.  She sometimes speaks and writes in a language invented for her by her father, and attempts to teach it to Grace.  When her pronouncements and beliefs begin to seep into her daughter's behavior at school, she vows to home-school young Grace, and the girl is pulled further into her mother's fantasy world.<br />Children usually remember events clearly but in a spotty way -- when speaking of memories, they tend to bounce from one to the next, not concerned (as an adult narrator might be) with beginnings and endings, with smoothing out the rough edges of memory.  They remember the parts that have the greatest emotional effect on them, either directly or obliquely.  Offill has reproduced this tendency by giving her young storyteller an accurate voice -- it's not a stretch for us to imagine that we're listening to the story through Grace's own words.  That being said, the writing is very polished and effective -- as the book spirals through scene after scene to its climax, the effect is very much like a wild dream that comes with the fever of an illness.  It's a powerful current that draws the reader in, making the book difficult to put down.<br />It's an interesting ride -- but there's an aching sadness left at the thought of what the shenanigans of Grace's parents are doing to her, to what sort of long-term effects they might have on the impressionable psyche of an 8-year-old girl.  It makes me wonder if the two of them gave any thought to how they would raise a child once they had one.  Her mother is hopeless, and her father, although he's a bit more grounded in reality, seems completely clueless in relating to his daughter.  I can't imagine her emerging from this ordeal without having a fairly skewed view of the world.<br />It's an odd little book -- but very skillfully written, interesting and entertaining.  Sometimes it's pretty scary to look as an adult through the eyes of a child -- it makes for a compelling read.very polished and effective -- as the book spirals through scene after scene to its climax, the effect is very much like a wild dream that comes with the fever of an illness.  It's a powerful current that draws the reader in, making the book difficult to put down.<br />It's an interesting ride -- but there's an aching sadness left at the thought of what the shenanigans of Grace's parents are doing to her, to what sort of long-term effects they might have on the impressionable psyche of an 8-year-old girl.  It makes me wonder if the two of them gave any thought to how they would raise a child once they had one.  Her mother is hopeless, and her father, although he's a bit more grounded in reality, seems completely clueless in relating to his daughter.  I can't imagine her emerging from this ordeal without having a fairly skewed view of the world.<br />It's an odd little book -- but very skillfully written, interesting and entertaining.  Sometimes it's pretty scary to look as an adult through the eyes of a child -- it makes for a compelling read.	2001-12-13
US	47392054	R31KJ4FLMV9FJM	0446393029	801902323	A Border Station	Books	4	1	1	N	N	HARD TIMES THROUGH A YOUNG BOY'S EYES AND HEART	The stories found in Shane Connaughton's collection A BORDER STATION are undoubtedly autobiographical -- it's hard to imagine that he would so vividly recreated the experiences of the young narrator if he had not lived them himself.  The setting is mid-20th century rural Ireland, and the times are hard.  The boy's mother comes across as tender and loving, but necessarily strong -- and, when it comes to her husband, understanding and forgiving of his sometimes brutal behavior.  The father, a village police sergeant, obviously loves his family, but their assignment to the border station of the title, 'this cursed hole.  Civilisation as far away as the dark side of the stars', as his father describes it, weighs heavily upon him, as it does them all.  The father's anger and frustration are too often visited upon his wife and son -- and woe to anyone else who gets in his path when he's 'in a mood'.<br />I would have to say, upon reading the entire book, that the boy's treatment by his father at times ventures into abuse.  The man's mood swings are wide and unpredictable (although the boy can usually see them coming), and are probably a sign of depression -- a diagnosis that would be made today, but not at the time when the stories took place.<br />The story that touched me most deeply here was 'Out', in which the boy is thrust into close contact with a neighboring family in order to obtain a regular supply of milk for his home.  He is familiar with the most visible member of the family, simply called Conlon, a man resigned to lifelong bachelorhood.  Conlon lives with his aged mother and his brother, Harry, whom the boy has never seen until his first visit to the farm.  Harry is 'a twisted man', as the boy describes him, shocking in appearance, a victim, we learn, of infantile paralysis.  His walk is uneven, he has a hump on his back, his speech is all but indecipherable.  As the events of the story transpire, the boy, at first horrified by Harry, learns some very important lessons in what is truly valuable in a human being.  The story is told in a direct, almost brutally honest style -- but is very heartwarming in effect.<br />That direct, brutally honest style pervades this entire book.  The characters depicted here are very real -- they are sometimes touching, they are sometimes rough and mean, they are sometimes aloof and detached.  I'm sure that every one of them has their basis in fact -- and I'm equally sure that the microcosm of rural Ireland on display here is an accurate one.  I don't get the impression that the author has attempted to 'pretty up' any of these characters.<br />It's an ojus collection, and you've got your share of it...nt lessons in what is truly valuable in a human being.  The story is told in a direct, almost brutally honest style -- but is very heartwarming in effect.<br />That direct, brutally honest style pervades this entire book.  The characters depicted here are very real -- they are sometimes touching, they are sometimes rough and mean, they are sometimes aloof and detached.  I'm sure that every one of them has their basis in fact -- and I'm equally sure that the microcosm of rural Ireland on display here is an accurate one.  I don't get the impression that the author has attempted to 'pretty up' any of these characters.<br />It's an ojus collection, and you've got your share of it...	2001-12-10
US	47392054	R3EW0USNOW0VZY	0312275293	30347471	Shadow Baby	Books	5	5	6	N	N	AN EXTRAORDINARY CHARACTER...	Alison McGhee's narrator, eleven year-old Clara winter (Clara insists on spelling her surname without a capital) is one of the most memorable characters you're liable to run across.  She is precocious, wise beyond her years, full of compassion and understanding for her fellow human beings, enamored of words and stories, and with a mind, heart and soul open to the possibilities she finds in the world around her.  The author gives her a refreshingly unique voice and personality -- and very naturally and gently allows us to share her thought processes.  It's an incredible experience -- and one that I know I will not soon forget.<br />Clara is haunted by the knowledge that she was born as one of a pair of twins -- her baby sister died shortly after birth. Tamar, her fiercely independent single mother, is unflinchingly tight-lipped about Clara's dead sister, her biological father, and her grandfather (Tamar's dad).  One night, waiting for her mother at choir practice in a local church, Clara, watching the snowy woods from a window, spots a shodow moving about in the trees, seemingly holding fire in its hands.  The shadow turns out to be retired metalworker Georg Kominsky, hanging lanterns in the trees to guide a group of cross-country skiers.  Clara decides then and there that she is going to get to know the old man -- she makes him the subject of an oral history assignment for school, goes to visit him, and one of the most amazing friendships begins.<br />Clara and Georg hit it off instantly -- although you certainly couldn't call Georg talkative.  Clara has to practically exract any response from him with a pair of tongs.  She begins to understand as much from his silences as from his words -- she views herself as an apprentice to a master.  He teaches her to look at the world with an open, discerning eye, to see the harmony of usefulness and beauty existing in tandem, to see the consistency in things.  She, in turn, comes as a bright star into his dark life, lighting it up like one of the pioneer lanters he is so skilled at making.<br />Like Georg's lanterns, McGhee's writing is absolutely luminous in its beauty -- she works with an economy of words that is breathtaking in the substance it conveys.  Rather than explaining things to the point of taking the wonder out of them, she allows her writing to illuminate them for us.  It's a joy to be there with Clara when she sees something in a new way for the first time.<br />Clara and Georg both benefit tremendously from their friendship -- they each have much to teach the other.  The old man guides her gently through the process of dealing with the mysteries and difficulties in her life -- and she gives him something valuable as well:  a listener, an observer and a student.  This book unashamedly and openly shows us how very much we stand to gain by honor and respect between the generations.<br />There is a quote on the book jacket from Judith Guest -- in part, she says 'Alison McGhee, with her seductive, almost hypnotic prose, has created a heroine that one simply must love'.  A very apt description of the magic at work here.  I didn't quite read this book in one setting, but it's certainly that compelling and rewarding -- I didn't want it to be over, but the author knew when to allow Clara to continue walking her path unwatched by the readers.<br />I found this book completely by chance (if there truly is such a thing).  I was looking for a book by another author at the library -- this one was on a shelf at eye-level, at the end of the row, with the cover visible.  It caught my eye, I picked it up -- and I was absolutely delighted with it.  I can't wait to read RAINLIGHT, Alison McGhee's earlier novel.it up like one of the pioneer lanters he is so skilled at making.<br />Like Georg's lanterns, McGhee's writing is absolutely luminous in its beauty -- she works with an economy of words that is breathtaking in the substance it conveys.  Rather than explaining things to the point of taking the wonder out of them, she allows her writing to illuminate them for us.  It's a joy to be there with Clara when she sees something in a new way for the first time.<br />Clara and Georg both benefit tremendously from their friendship -- they each have much to teach the other.  The old man guides her gently through the process of dealing with the mysteries and difficulties in her life -- and she gives him something valuable as well:  a listener, an observer and a student.  This book unashamedly and openly shows us how very much we stand to gain by honor and respect between the generations.<br />There is a quote on the book jacket from Judith Guest -- in part, she says 'Alison McGhee, with her seductive, almost hypnotic prose, has created a heroine that one simply must love'.  A very apt description of the magic at work here.  I didn't quite read this book in one setting, but it's certainly that compelling and rewarding -- I didn't want it to be over, but the author knew when to allow Clara to continue walking her path unwatched by the readers.<br />I found this book completely by chance (if there truly is such a thing).  I was looking for a book by another author at the library -- this one was on a shelf at eye-level, at the end of the row, with the cover visible.  It caught my eye, I picked it up -- and I was absolutely delighted with it.  I can't wait to read RAINLIGHT, Alison McGhee's earlier novel.	2001-12-07
US	47392054	R1HZY5YEGD7BSQ	0679444874	564111200	Criminals	Books	5	10	10	N	N	AN ENTERTAINING, FINELY-WOVEN TALE	CRIMINALS is my second experience with the fine writing of Margot Livesey -- her newest, EVA MOVES THE FURNITURE, drew me in.  The threads of this story are delightfully convoluted -- the fact that one of the characters is a weaver may be an unintentional metaphor, but I suspect Ms. Livesey knew exactly what she was doing in assigning her that activity.<br />There are many issues addressed by both the story and the people who populate it so vividly.  Honesty, in many guises and forms, is chief among them -- honesty in work, in relationships with family and lovers, with ourselves, and, ultimately, with the law.  Some of the characters learn from the events that transpire here -- some do not.<br /><br />There are three main branches of plot in this novel -- and one of them is a book within the book...<br />Ewan Munro, a respected banker, on his way to visit his sister Mollie in Scotland -- who is obviously distraught over her recent separation from her lover of several years -- finds a baby in a roadside mens' room, apparently abandoned.  Through a series of good intentions and botched attempts to communicate his find, he winds up bringing it with him to his sister's home.  In her pain and anguish, she latches onto the baby with all of her emotions, as a virtual lifeline to the world -- and it's a tether she is terrified to break.<br />We also see the story develop from the perspective of Kenneth, a young n'er-do-well, looking out for no one but himself, caring not a whit for the feelings or well-being of his girlfriend -- or her child.  When any emotions arise within him to cast doubt on the worth of his devious schemes, he douses them with alcohol and rationalization.<br />Against this action is cast the novel-within-the-novel -- written by Mollie's departed lover.  Within its pages, Ewan begins to see his sister's intimate secrets revealed -- and through it he discovers the reasons behind much of her mental trauma.<br />As the story moves along, Livesey skillfully brings these threads together, allowing the reader to follow them comfortably through her shifts of perspective.  There is well-managed suspense here, combined with some very human, credible characters -- she builds and reveals their personalities and traits gently but thoroughly.  It makes for an engrossing, rewarding read.ings these threads together, allowing the reader to follow them comfortably through her shifts of perspective.  There is well-managed suspense here, combined with some very human, credible characters -- she builds and reveals their personalities and traits gently but thoroughly.  It makes for an engrossing, rewarding read.	2001-12-05
US	47392054	R2I9H4CTVZI43Y	0679457836	48235446	The Gospel According to the Son	Books	4	22	25	N	N	A STREET-LEVEL VIEW -- NO CHOIR, FEW SPECIAL EFFECTS...	Norman Mailer's novelized story of the life of Jesus is one that, not surprisingly, stresses His human side -- and as such, it is understandably going to be received with misgiving and even derision from certain groups of the faithful. Nikos Kazantzakis' beautiful novel THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST was ridiculed by fundamentalist Christians as well.<br />The Jesus depicted in these pages is not the idealized image seen in the paintings that hang in Sunday School classrooms all over America.  His hands are rough and often dirty;  he doesn't always go about in shining, spotless garments;  his disciples are rough, uneducated men, 'ugly and misshapen of body; some were misshapen of nose; the hands of many were thick and broken; the legs of others were crooked.'  In Mailer's story, Jesus is often plagued by doubts -- doubts about His own divinity, doubts about His ability to complete His mission, doubts even about the nature of His mission.  He is wracked from time to time by temptation as well -- and not just during His 40 days in the wilderness, when He is tempted by Satan.  There are even times when He feels separated from His Father.<br />These are but a few of the aspects of this story that will likely anger and offend those whose belief is so literal and norrow that it is confined to the printed word of the Bible.  If the book is read with an open mind and heart, however, it is easy to see that Mailer is not casting doubts upon the divinity of Jesus -- he is merely allowing us to get closer to the human side, which in turn can bring us closer to an understanding of Jesus the man.<br />The Gospels were written many years after the Crucifixion, by men who did not know Jesus personally.  They were based on accounts of accounts of accounts -- and as such, it is unbelievable that exaggerations and additions to the story would not occur.  This is why many people look to the suppressed (by the Church) Gospel of Thomas as a more reliable, contemporarily composed look at Christ and His teachings.<br />This does not mean that the story of Jesus is untrue, or of any less importance than the deepest of believers attach to it -- but it is a danger (and this is true in ANY religion) to attach too much importance to words.  Mailer's work is fiction -- I didn't get the idea that he was trying to pass it off as anything more -- but a fiction that is extremely respectful to its inspiration, and very relelvant as a tool for our further understanding of Christ.  It's not intended to replace or contradict the story of Jesus as told in the Bible -- it's more like a conversation between seekers, with Mailer on one side as the writer, and us on the other side as the reader.  It's one side of a dialogue, and if it can spark some thought and contemplation, then it's a valuable one.Christ and His teachings.  <br />This does not mean that the story of Jesus is untrue, or of any less importance than the deepest of believers attach to it -- but it is a danger (and this is true in ANY religion) to attach too much importance to words.  Mailer's work is fiction -- I didn't get the idea that he was trying to pass it off as anything more -- but a fiction that is extremely respectful to its inspiration, and very relelvant as a tool for our further understanding of Christ.  It's not intended to replace or contradict the story of Jesus as told in the Bible -- it's more like a conversation between seekers, with Mailer on one side as the writer, and us on the other side as the reader.  It's one side of a dialogue, and if it can spark some thought and contemplation, then it's a valuable one.	2001-12-02
US	47392054	R1WWZOX82P3DEU	0805068015	998738670	Eva Moves the Furniture: A Novel	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A BEAUTIFUL STORY, BRILLIANTLY WRITTEN	Too bad I can only give this book five stars...<br />Morgot Livesey's newest novel chronicles the life of Eva McEwan, told by the character in the form of a memoir.  We are there at her birth, and we witness -- after the appearance of 6 magpies, a dark omen -- the death of her mother that very night.  We see her grow, under the loving care of her father David and her aunt Lily, blessed with an uncomplicated childhood in the small village of Troon, Scotland -- uncomplicated, that is, but for her two companions.  They appear as if out of nowhere, and vanish just as mysteriously.  As she comes to know them -- a middle-aged woman and a young girl -- it dawns upon Eva that no one else can see them.  They are with her, on and off, throughout her life.<br />The story of her life is a touching one, filled with the events that one might expect -- school, making and losing friends, choosing a career, successes and failures, romances.  What sets this novel apart from many others, for me, is not just the skill and care with which Livesey develops her characters, but her respect for them.  Time and again I've read books that were spoiled by the author's irritating insistance on assigning attributes to characters that seem -- well, out of character for them.  Livesey has the respect for her characters -- and the good sense -- to keep them real and true to themselves.<br />Those who people this story are lovingly engendered -- Livesey is extremely adept, through both voicing and observation, in creating believable, whole characters with whom I had absolutely no trouble empathizing.  Her skill in this area gave the book a much greater impact.  This obvious concern for her creations, coupled with her style of prose (shining in its illumination, but never wordy, always natural) and a very moving story line, made this one of the best books I've read this year.  It's original look at the relationships between the dead and the living is completely refreshing -- those who appreciate this aspect of this book should check out Sheri Reynolds' excellent novel A GRACIOUS PLENTY as well.<br />This is the first of Margot Livesey's works I've read -- now I have ANOTHER author to investigate further.  I'LL NEVER GET ALL OF THE BOOKS ON MY 'LIST' READ!  (Oh well -- not too serious a complaint, and nothing to do with this fine book...).s aspect of this book should check out Sheri Reynolds' excellent novel A GRACIOUS PLENTY as well.<br />This is the first of Margot Livesey's works I've read -- now I have ANOTHER author to investigate further.  I'LL NEVER GET ALL OF THE BOOKS ON MY 'LIST' READ!  (Oh well -- not too serious a complaint, and nothing to do with this fine book...).	2001-11-24
US	47392054	R1LFZWGSMZ9PPV	0375411275	367665573	Pobby and Dingan	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A MOVING STORY OF LOVE, FAITH AND GROWTH	Ben Rice's literary debut is an auspicious one -- in this slim volume, he tells a story with universal implications, simply and without a word to spare, through the eyes of a boy living in a rough mining town in Australia.<br />The narrator is Ashmol Williamson.  His father is an opal miner with a reputation for drinking a bit too much -- his mother is desperately homesick for her native England, her family, and the comforts which are merely memories in her present habitation.  Ashmol's sister, Kellyanne, is the focus of the story.  Kellyanne has two friends -- Pobby and Dingan -- that only she can see.  When they go missing -- after her father ostensibly takes them to work with him one day -- her world begins to crumble.  Pobby and Dingan -- whom her brother sees as the irritating fantasy of a kid sister who refuses to grow up -- suddenly figure very large in the lives of not just the Williamson family, but of just about everyone in Lightning Ridge, where they live.  For Kellyanne begins to grieve for them to such an extent that she begins to literally waste away, growing weaker with each passing day.  Ashmol may consider them to be imaginary, and his sister to be a 'fruit loop', but his love for her convinces him that the only way to save her is to enlist as many people as possible to hunt for them.<br />The story is engagingly told through Ashmol, with the language we would expect from a young boy -- but with increasingly growing and sensitive insight.  He comes to understand how important Pobby and Dingan are to Kellyanne.  Ashmol -- and the people of Lightning Ridge -- learn some important lessons about faith and belief in this story.<br />The characters here are memorable -- many of them, as you might expect from the setting, very eccentric -- and all of them are very, very human.  Rice has drawn them well and given them the exceptional gift of authentic voices -- but never submitting to the temptation of overplaying them.  His writing is spare -- and that is a great asset in a story such as this.  He never allows it to get in the way.  I can't imagine this book being nearly as effective if it had been much longer.<br />This is one of the most enjoyable and rewarding books I've read in the past year.  I'm anxious to see what Mr. Rice produces next.s a great asset in a story such as this.  He never allows it to get in the way.  I can't imagine this book being nearly as effective if it had been much longer.<br />This is one of the most enjoyable and rewarding books I've read in the past year.  I'm anxious to see what Mr. Rice produces next.	2001-11-22
US	47392054	RAHMSUOVMN6CR	0609601067	897584228	Mendel's Dwarf	Books	5	21	21	N	N	DISTURBING AND THOUGHT-PROVOKING	I found Simon Mawer's novel of a modern geneticist afflicted with achondroplasia -- dwarfism -- to be a well-written, compelling read.  The book is filled with information on the theories of genetics that were pioneered by Georg Mendel 150 years ago -- a man whose genius was unrecognized in his own day.  The scientific content is very relevant to the story told, and, to Mawer's credit, does not present an obstacle to the enjoyment of this novel -- on the contrary, it allows the reader a glimpse deep into the character of Ben Lambert, a man with an understandably intent mission:  the isolation and identification of the gene responsible for his own mutation.<br />Lambert is an intelligent, acerbic, somewhat bitter character -- he has learned through his life to endure the polite and not-so-polite stares, the prejudices, the patronizing smiles of so-called 'normal' people.  He has even learned to use his all-too-obvious condition in his studies and lectures -- making self-effacing jokes to lull his audience into a sense of relaxed cameraderie and submission, only to turn around and make a stabbing point with the determination and aim of Captain Ahab going after Moby Dick.<br />There is a love story here as well, in Lambert's relationship with Jean Piercey Miller.  It is told very movingly -- it allows us to see fondness and emotion flourish in the heart of one who has been hardened by the treatment he has received at the hands of the world.  There is also a purely erotic side, darker.  It is  tinged with a definite sadness, for we can see other, less healthy emotional undercurrents in both characters as well -- there is joy and sorrow in the cup from which they drink.<br />The book is written to include a series of flashnacks, allowing us a glimpse into the life of Georg Mendel, the Austrian friar who is also by chance (or by fate?) a distant relative of Dr. Lambert -- his great great great uncle.  The difficulties encountered by Mendel in his day in gaining deserved attention for his pioneering work present an apt parallel to Lambert's modern-day struggles.<br />Near the book's climax, Lambert delivers a lecture on eugenics that is worth reading over several times -- given the current level of progress in the Human Genome Project, he presents some thoughts that we would do well to consider.<br />The novel presents an intelligently conceived, relevant story in an entertaining, engrossing way -- the book picks up its pace distinctly as it moves along, and the characters are well-drawn and compelling, making it difficult to put down.ttention for his pioneering work present an apt parallel to Lambert's modern-day struggles.<br />Near the book's climax, Lambert delivers a lecture on eugenics that is worth reading over several times -- given the current level of progress in the Human Genome Project, he presents some thoughts that we would do well to consider.<br />The novel presents an intelligently conceived, relevant story in an entertaining, engrossing way -- the book picks up its pace distinctly as it moves along, and the characters are well-drawn and compelling, making it difficult to put down.	2001-11-12
US	47392054	R3HMBDSDAJPKD3	0312269978	363070868	The Sweet By and By	Books	5	1	1	N	N	EDDYS OF TIME AND THE HUMAN SPIRIT	Jeanne Mackin's novel about Helen West, a freelance writer who is commissioned to produce a magazine article on Maggie Fox, the founder of the American spiritualism movement, begins simply enough with this premise, then spirals with increasing power and depth into a maelstrom of time and the human spirit.  Mackin's writing skills gently but firmly take the reader by the hand -- we are led into the reality of the lives of the two women, moving gracefully back and forth across time as their indivdual stories unfold.<br />As her article progresses, and West learns more about her subject, parallels between their lives -- often very subtle -- emerge, drawing the two women, born over a century apart, inexorably closer to one another.  Maggie's life is over, of course -- and in many ways Helen feels that her life is over as well.  Casting a clear, discerning eye on Maggie's methods of sham and fakery, Helen senses a hint of reality, of true belief, at the core.  Through a series of seemingly unexplainable incidents, Helen begins to sense light shed upon events in her own life -- light that seems to emanate from the life of Maggie Fox.<br />Unable after three years to gain any sense of closure following the death of her lover, Helen feels herself -- and her sanity -- slipping away.  She feels a great burden of guilt from which she is unable to free herself.  Opening the life of Maggie Fox for her article is like opening Pandora's box -- the more she learns, the more questions she has.  Can the spirits of the dead really communicate with the living?  Was everything Maggie Fox stood for really nothing but fakery and parlor tricks?  Was Maggie's public 'confession' heartfelt, or was it simply revenge?  Helen West searches for the answers to these and many more questions, both about the Fox sisters and about her own life -- and through her, Jeanne Mackin allows us to ask them of ourselves as well.<br />Mackin's own research into the lives of the Fox sisters goes very far in adding a great deal of plausability to her story.  Maggie Fox and her sisters held 'sittings' and seances for the rich and famous of their time -- Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Horace Greeley, Abraham Lincoln's widow, and many other notables.  The author lets us see that anyone -- rich and famous, or poor and faceless -- can feel enough pain, can ache enough to want to believe in the 'services' the sisters offered.<br />Her characters are developed subtly and completely -- they are human and believable.  The burning questions in Helen's heart are ones we would well ask if we were in her shoes -- and Mackin's formidable, well-honed skills as a writer put us right there.  This is an intelligently written, imaginatively conceived novel -- very entertaining and fulfilling, and well worth the read.ing a great deal of plausability to her story.  Maggie Fox and her sisters held 'sittings' and seances for the rich and famous of their time -- Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Horace Greeley, Abraham Lincoln's widow, and many other notables.  The author lets us see that anyone -- rich and famous, or poor and faceless -- can feel enough pain, can ache enough to want to believe in the 'services' the sisters offered.  <br />Her characters are developed subtly and completely -- they are human and believable.  The burning questions in Helen's heart are ones we would well ask if we were in her shoes -- and Mackin's formidable, well-honed skills as a writer put us right there.  This is an intelligently written, imaginatively conceived novel -- very entertaining and fulfilling, and well worth the read.	2001-11-10
US	47392054	R162M2UIR0BN5	039582754X	742602355	The Saskiad	Books	5	16	17	N	N	SASKIA HAS A LOT OF 'WORK' TO DO...	...meaning, in this case, quite a bit of self-healing and taking a good hard look at her life.  It's hard enough to grow through the years of adolescence without the obstacles and hinderances that she encounters in this distrubing but well-written coming of age novel.  Some books are more difficult than others when it comes to writing reviews and opinions without throwing out spoilers -- I'll give it a shot, because I feel this is an important book.<br />Saskia is one the most unique, likable characters I've come across in literature.  She's intelligent, incredibly imaginative, resilient to an amazing degree, and sensitive.  She hasn't had it easy.  Her mother is a well-meaning flake who is almost not there at all for her, and her long-absent father, who deigns from time to time to post brief, meaningless missives from the far corners of the earth to his abandoned family has issues of his own -- for the sake of those who have not read the book, I'll leave it at that.<br />Saskia's imagination deserves special mention.  Brian Hall has done an incredible job with this aspect of the book -- the language he has chosen for her complements and illustrates her thought processes to a level that I felt like I was privy to her thoughts as they were occurring.  She is given a heavy load of responsibilities in caring for the other children who live on the run-down former commune in rural upstate New York, where most of the book takes place.  She has been a loner for most of her life -- she is looked upon as an oddity at school.  When a new student arrives, and she and Saskia form an almost instantly close bond of friendship, it's a life-chaging experience for her.  It is especially admirable that Hall, writing as a male, has homed in so accurately and believably on the bond between these two young girls -- his skills as a writer are impressive, firm and confident, but never forceful.  His use of language is extraordinary.<br />Saskia's real trials -- and much of her real happiness -- begin with the arrival of her long-absent father.  His return marks a turning point in her life, in her outlook on the world, in her understanding of life itself.  As she and her new friend embark upon an adventure -- and quite an adventure it is -- with her father, we can almost feel the growth in her, both physically and emotionally, thanks to Hall's narrative and descriptive skills.<br />Suffice to say at this point that Saskia's life takes a radical turn -- considering her upbringing, it's not too much of a surprise.  One of the most uplifting aspects of this story is the strength of character and determination that the young heroine demonstrates.  Despite the perils and pitfals that await her, we sense that she's going to come out of it stronger than ever.<br />I suppose one thing that makes this book a bit disturbing to me in some ways is that I'm the father of a 15 year-old girl -- it's a little hard to watch someone so close to her age (Saskia is 12-13 during this story) go through so much.  Life is sometimes harrowing.<br />Overall, I must say that this is an uplifting story -- it's very well-written and voiced, compelling and entertaining.  There were some characters of whom I was suspicious as soon as they appeared -- I won't identify them, but my suspicions proved correct.  You should read this for yourself -- it's a journey you'll remember for some time.ess -- begin with the arrival of her long-absent father.  His return marks a turning point in her life, in her outlook on the world, in her understanding of life itself.  As she and her new friend embark upon an adventure -- and quite an adventure it is -- with her father, we can almost feel the growth in her, both physically and emotionally, thanks to Hall's narrative and descriptive skills.<br />Suffice to say at this point that Saskia's life takes a radical turn -- considering her upbringing, it's not too much of a surprise.  One of the most uplifting aspects of this story is the strength of character and determination that the young heroine demonstrates.  Despite the perils and pitfals that await her, we sense that she's going to come out of it stronger than ever.<br />I suppose one thing that makes this book a bit disturbing to me in some ways is that I'm the father of a 15 year-old girl -- it's a little hard to watch someone so close to her age (Saskia is 12-13 during this story) go through so much.  Life is sometimes harrowing.<br />Overall, I must say that this is an uplifting story -- it's very well-written and voiced, compelling and entertaining.  There were some characters of whom I was suspicious as soon as they appeared -- I won't identify them, but my suspicions proved correct.  You should read this for yourself -- it's a journey you'll remember for some time.	2001-11-01
US	47392054	R3OSQSKPGKSI9G	0609607901	944744644	Every Good and Perfect Gift: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	UNFORGETTABLE CHARACTERS, KEEN OBSERVATIONS IN A GREAT STORY	Brenda Jernigan's first novel is one filled with authentic, believable characters and gentle but clear-eyed observations of life in the South during the 50s and 60s.  Like another reviewer, I found that several of the characters reminded me in no small way of some of my own memorable relatives.<br />The story centers around three women, living together on their own, whose lives are filled with familiar joys and sorrows, eccentric and strong-willed relatives and neighbors, hard work and rewards.  Their personalities are distinctly different, and at times conflicting -- but they are bound together by their faith (expressed and experienced in different ways), values and deep love of family.<br />Daughter Maggie, the main character and narrator, is ten years old as the book opens.  One morning in Sunday school, she is gifted with a vision of God, accompanied by a simple message:  &quot;Feed my sheep'.  The fact that, in Maggie's vision, God appears as a woman, is met with an understated, natural acceptance by her, and by understandable skepticism and consternation by her family and others in the small North Carolina town of Canaan, where they live.  After being rebuked and ridiculed for this aspect of her revelation, Maggie decides to keep the Heavenly gender to herself.  From time to time, she experiences repetitions of the initial vision -- and feels herself being utilized as a conduit for healing energy, which of course brings more attention her way.  These incidents cannot be called up by her at will -- to the dismay and scorn of those who would use her 'power' for their own purposes and profit.  Her view of her 'gift', and all of its accompanying burdens, are refreshingly honest, straightforward and simple -- she knows that the power doesn't lie within her or belong to her, and she sees herself as someone fairly ordinary.  She deals with all of this as she struggles against all of the barriers thrown up against a young woman in the South during this time who is trying to be independent, educate herself, and make her place in the world.<br />Maggie grandmother is -- as one magazine article so aptly puts it -- 'a sturdy country woman of great faith'.  She is necessarily tough, the unquestionable matriarch of her extended family -- with some members of which she occasionally butts heads -- but she is filled with the power that unconditional love instills in a person.  She is fond of quoting scripture, and she has a knack for getting right to the heart of any matter -- the tools of faith, strength and love serve her well.<br />Lily, Maggie's mother, is quite the free spirit.  Much of her family views her as an aberration, and with some degree of disdain and disrespect -- but in her own way, she is just as strong-willed, just as pure-hearted as her mother.  Jernigan skillfully develops her character as the story progresses to allow the reader to come to realize this.<br />The author's character-building skills are one of the most rewarding things about this novel -- coupled with her talent for translating what surely must be first-hand observations of growing up in the 60s South into readable, relevant and entertaining prose make this book a joyful, moving experience.<br />In addition, the book is valuable in gently allowing us to consider the ways in which God is revealed -- or not -- to each one of us.  Those who cling so tightly to irrelevancies such as gender and skin color -- things of the flesh, not of the spirit -- are in danger of missing the deeper universality of the spiritual experience.  A couple of observations from 'outside' Christianity come to mind.  Ramakrishna, a great saint who lived in India during the late 19th century, spoke often about the unifying beliefs of the world's great religions.  He likened the varying presentations of the word of God as different meals, prepared by a loving mother to suit the tastes of her children.  I also recently saw a quote from Mahatma Ghandi that said (approximately) 'There are some people in the world who are so hungry that God can only appear to them as a loaf of bread'.  Our needs are as varied as we are as human beings -- why is it that our vision and understanding of God's nature should not be varied as well?<br />This book is a coming-of-age tale, a love story, a social document, and simply a well-written, rewarding read -- whether you grew up in the South, or anywhere.  This is a story and a group of characters that you will not soon forget.re some people in the world who are so hungry that God can only appear to them as a loaf of bread'.  Our needs are as varied as we are as human beings -- why is it that our vision and understanding of God's nature should not be varied as well?  <br />This book is a coming-of-age tale, a love story, a social document, and simply a well-written, rewarding read -- whether you grew up in the South, or anywhere.  This is a story and a group of characters that you will not soon forget.	2001-10-30
US	47392054	R3VRKLLCJS4YTV	0684855429	2625162	Unhallowed Ground: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	SOMEWHAT ENTERTAINING, BUT DISAPPOINTING...	I know full well that I cannot expect to 'really like' every book that I pick up, but I was particularly disappointed in this one.  I bought it to give myself something 'lighter' to read, to give myself a break, to just sit back and be entertained.  It was a little hard to get into it at first, but after about 50-60 pages, I found that I was interested enough to keep going.  When I was finished, I was left with the feeling that I should have gone with my initial instinct, to set it aside early on.<br />The jacket blurbs tout the slow, inexorable buildup to a 'PSYCHO-like tension.  Ms. White is not without talent (and, with 10 other books to her credit, she most likely has loyal readers), but I think this story would have been better-served as a film, or perhaps as a made-for-TV movie, complete with a few recognizable personalities venturing outside of their regular roles in their attempts to 'stretch out' as actors.<br />I have to agree with another reviewer, who cited their feeling that the author suddenly increased the pace of the story when she decided it was time for it to be over.  There were far too many questions raised that were left unanswered, too many issues touched upon that were never resolved.  The main character's relationship with Oliver feels extremely 'forced' from a literary point of view -- and whatever becomes of Dave?  Ms. White birngs up some interesting and vital points about the social services field, as well as some psychological insight into depression and codependency.  It's obvious that she is sensitive to these issues, and even knowlegeable -- but no real conclusions are drawn, no solutions suggested.  Painting the experience without offering any real guidance or options makes it appear as nothing more than a device to inject emotion and tension into a very rambling work.<br />It's almost as if the author were whipping up the book from a recipe, saw that the book she was cooking needed to be 'on the table', and popped it into the microwave at the end.  I was left with the impression that my reading experience suffered because of someone else's deadline -- perhaps she even lost interest in her own story toward the end.<br />I think the next time I want something that is both entertaining and genuinely terrifying, I'll pick up a copy of THE LOTTERY or something else by Shirley Jackson -- I know for a fact that it'll still scare the hell out of me after all these years, and it'll be worth my time.ave at the end.  I was left with the impression that my reading experience suffered because of someone else's deadline -- perhaps she even lost interest in her own story toward the end.<br />I think the next time I want something that is both entertaining and genuinely terrifying, I'll pick up a copy of THE LOTTERY or something else by Shirley Jackson -- I know for a fact that it'll still scare the hell out of me after all these years, and it'll be worth my time.	2001-10-28
US	47392054	R1DWOAR28Q2K9L	0670892424	780619582	After Life	Books	4	4	4	N	N	ENJOYABLE AND REWARDING	'First I had to get his body into the boat.'  Not the usual beginning for any sort of mystery novel, but this is not your run-of-the-mill mystery novel.  Rhian Ellis' tale of a rather reluctant spiritualist, Naomi Ash, is set in rural upstate New York in a town founded by and populated by an amazing array of mediums, fortune tellers, seers, sages, fakirs and charlatans -- some of whom, doubtless, are sincere and possessed of real talent in their chosen field.<br />The story is skillfully told in both the present and in a series of well-constructed and smoothly integrated flashbacks.  The author is talented enough that her techniques do not induce any degree of 'reader whiplash' -- and it's a relief to see this method used to such good advantage.  It enhances the mystery -- allowing it to unfold slightly out of order keeps the reader in an additional degree of suspense.<br />One of the strongest aspects of Ms. Ellis' story is her central character, Naomi.  She is believable, and whatever she may or may not have done -- no spoilers here -- we feel a great deal of empathy for her.  She is not drawn as some hauntingly beautiful heroine, willowy, sexy and seductive, so perfect that she couldn't be real.  She is very human, with a less-than-ideal self-image.  Her life is filled with unfulfilled expectations, loneliness and little hope of improving her situation -- but there is also happiness, and the joy she finds in seemingly small things is very much alive to us.<br />The author also very ably brings some of the history of spiritualism in America into her novel -- not in a preachy way, as if she's trying to convince the reader of anything, but by way of information that gives her characters' beliefs a living past. I found this book to be very entertaining and well-written -- and refreshingly off the beaten path.	2001-10-28
US	47392054	R1C5SD7E19WD0H	0060930004	524429774	The Distinguished Guest	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A TOUCHING BUT UNFLINCHING STORY	Sue Miller's THE DISTINGUISHED GUEST is an immensely readable, sensitive, yet honest portrait of a fiercely independent, proud and intelligent woman stricken with Perkinson's disease.  It is also a story of relationships within her family.  Circumstances have brought her to live with her son and his wife 'for just a short while' -- her presence there triggers memories and emotions that have been allowed to lie comfortably dormant for years, bringing them to the forefront of several of the characters' minds, forcing them to reassess many things they had considered to be 'etched in stone'.<br />Lily Maynard, the 'distinguished guest' of the title, has become a bit of a literary celebrity late in life -- her memoirs were published to wide acclaim when she was seventy-two.  She takes this gentle, respectful attention in both hands, relishing it and the opportunity it gives her to speak out and have some influence on her world.  Her pronouncements alternately intrigue, delight and rankle those around her.  As the disease progresses, and her grip on her faculties becomes more tenuous, she is forced to reassess both her life and the motives behind her writing -- how much of what she is telling is true, how much is creatively enhanced (and to what ends)?  What is she really trying to accomplish?<br />Her presence in the household brings pressures to bear on other family members as well.  They are there to stand by her and help her when she needs it -- but they are also seeing her as they have never seen her before.  They are also seeing things in themselves and in each other that gives them both the need and the opportunity to have another look at their own lives.<br />This is not a book with a lot of 'action' -- but it is a very rewarding read in many ways.  Miller's skill at developing these characters, at allowing the reader to look at them a layer at a time, is very satisfying.  Relationships between them are very human and real -- they grow and shrink, adapt and change as they progress through life.  With a little reflection, this book could easily be a tool allowing us to enhance our abilities to take a good look at our own lives and values -- and we can all stand to do that from time to time.<br />This book is entertaining on one level, but it is more than that -- there is much to be gained here, much to be savored.  As tempting as it might be to read through this book in one setting, I think it is most likely the type of work that bears unhurried reflection -- and repeated reading.as they progress through life.  With a little reflection, this book could easily be a tool allowing us to enhance our abilities to take a good look at our own lives and values -- and we can all stand to do that from time to time.<br />This book is entertaining on one level, but it is more than that -- there is much to be gained here, much to be savored.  As tempting as it might be to read through this book in one setting, I think it is most likely the type of work that bears unhurried reflection -- and repeated reading.	2001-09-30
US	47392054	R1JKPNRKUVSJO9	0060929677	774423657	The Healer: A Novel	Books	3	5	9	N	N	MIXED FEELINGS ABOUT AN EXHAUSTING READ...	Holding the book in your hand, or as closely as you can, you are suddenly, unexplicably aware of how close you can be and yet still be separated from the physicality of its existence, the glossy surface through which appears the cover design and the words, the chemical compunds which make up the ink, the paper itself produced by methods of which those outside the industry know little more than the shadow-remembrances from their social studies classes and discussions of manufacturing, the great trees cut and mulched and pulped, the paper wound onto enormous rolls and shipped to the printers, cut to size and prepared for the presses, stamped mechanically and mercilessly with the ink, bound and fitted and trimmed and glued and wrapped and boxed, the product it has become touted and promoted and sold and shipped and sold again.<br />I could go on...<br />Holligshead's style is -- how shall I say -- a BIT overly decriptive.  When I read one of the editorial reviews of this novel, I thought the writer's complaint about the detailed description of the breakfast plate was a little picky.  Upon reading this book, I relaize that this example was only the tip of the iceberg.<br />Still, it's a good story, and the main characters are interesting, if not necessarily admirable.  Caroline Troyer, the healer of the title, is extraordinary -- and Tim Wakelin, the recently-widowed reporter who has come to the small town on the Canadian Shield to meet and write about her, is very believable as a man searching blindly for a way to get over the loss of his wife and find some meaning in his life.  Ross Troyer, Caroline's father, is both despicable and pitiable -- he is a classic case of someone who is so ignorant of the forces that move him through life that he hasn't a clue about the damage he does.  Several of the other characters seem to be little more than excuses for intermittent interaction.<br />I had to force myself through this novel -- although I'll admit that it got easier about 2/3 of the way through it.  I suppose in the end it was worth it to follow these characters' story through to its conclusion, but I don't know how heatily I can recommend this book.  The author's verbosely overburdened style made it the literary equivalent of slogging through ankle-deep mud, uphill -- reading it actually made me tired.<br />I've read plenty of books in my life in which sentences (and descriptions) went on for pages and pages -- Garbiel Garcia Marquez comes to mind.  In the case of Garcia Marquez's writing, the passages were absolutely alive with light.  In the case of THE HEALER, it only added to my ability to share with the characters the hopelessness of being lost in the Canadian woods, trudging forward out of instinct, not knowing where or when I would come out of it.<br />If you're appreciative of writing that can do absolute wonders with an amazing economy of words, read William Trevor or Mark Salzman.<br />I've got to rest now...ut 2/3 of the way through it.  I suppose in the end it was worth it to follow these characters' story through to its conclusion, but I don't know how heatily I can recommend this book.  The author's verbosely overburdened style made it the literary equivalent of slogging through ankle-deep mud, uphill -- reading it actually made me tired.  <br />I've read plenty of books in my life in which sentences (and descriptions) went on for pages and pages -- Garbiel Garcia Marquez comes to mind.  In the case of Garcia Marquez's writing, the passages were absolutely alive with light.  In the case of THE HEALER, it only added to my ability to share with the characters the hopelessness of being lost in the Canadian woods, trudging forward out of instinct, not knowing where or when I would come out of it.<br />If you're appreciative of writing that can do absolute wonders with an amazing economy of words, read William Trevor or Mark Salzman.<br />I've got to rest now...	2001-09-26
US	47392054	R1NJ11AKK0RUP5	0345417771	145473573	In Dark Water	Books	5	3	3	N	N	MOVING, RELEVANT -- AND BELIEVABLE	Mermer Blakeslee's IN DARK WATER presents us with a story that cannot help but move us emotionally.  Her young heroine, Eudora Buell, is full of spirit, imagination and wonder -- she is immediately likeable, drawing the reader readily into her world and her story.<br />Dorrie has a great need -- as all children have -- to be loved, to feel a part of her family.  When her older brother David, who seems to be the focus of much of her family's love, is killed in a motorcycle accident, the walls come tumbling down.  Her mother is the first to succumb to the depression that covers all of them -- in very different ways -- like a blanket.  Dorrie fights for her rightful share of love and attention for a while, then, seeing that she's waging a losing battle with her increasingly non-present mother's emotions, she takes off on a quest to find it.<br />Her journey takes her a short distance, just a few miles away to refuge among the eccentric members of the Tappen family.  Different they may be, but among them she finds nurturing, unconditional love -- and she begins to thrive again.  Through a series of events and misunderstandings, she finds even this rug yanked out from under her, and despite all of her struggles, she, too, finds herself a victim of depression.<br />Her climb back into her true self, and the forces that draw her again and again to her mother -- whose own depression shattered Dorrie's tenuous grip on emotional health and forced her to flee her own home -- make for a strong, compelling story that is so very relevant to our times, when people everywhere in our society are struggling with many of these same issues.<br />As moving and well-written as the story is, what makes it hold us even more by our hearts and souls is the fact that Blakelee's characters are so well-drawn and accurately voiced -- they are some of the most believable human beings I've run across in literature.  Their emotions and thoughts are brought to life in such a way that the shifts in point-of-view are very easy and natural for the reader to follow.<br />IN DARK WATER gives us a thoughtful and insightful look at the effects of depression on both individuals and on a family -- and it conveys that through the darkest hours there is hope to be found in the love of a family, of people who care from deep within, who feel the bonds that are not always easy to see with the eyes.oint-of-view are very easy and natural for the reader to follow.<br />IN DARK WATER gives us a thoughtful and insightful look at the effects of depression on both individuals and on a family -- and it conveys that through the darkest hours there is hope to be found in the love of a family, of people who care from deep within, who feel the bonds that are not always easy to see with the eyes.	2001-09-24
US	47392054	R1D7S395X0L5SE	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	33	34	N	N	'All of us will be tested in faith, again and again'	Mark Salzman's LYING AWAKE is the story of one woman's test of faith. She is Sister John of the Cross, a Carmelite nun living in a monastery surrounded by the hubbub that is Los Angeles. She has given most of her life to the service of God, and she has been gifted with wonderful, ecstatic visions. Words have poured out of her into her journals -- her poetry has inspired seekers within and without the Order. Now in middle age, she suddenly discovers that the headaches that have accompanied these visions could threaten her life -- and, more devastating than this, they could be indications that her visions are nothing but hallucinations brought on by a medical condition. Her choice is plain but difficult -- if she agrees to the surgery that could correct this condition and possibly save her life, she risks losing the one aspect of her religious life that she has seen as a validation of her Vocation. Not an easy choice.<br />Salzman's prose is as spare and delicate as any I have read -- and yet it conveys so very much. Life for the cloistered Sisters is revealed to the reader without romanticizing -- in all of its simplicity, hardship and beauty. His descriptions of the nuns' cells, the chapel, the monastery garden all shine with a gentle but firm light -- they all seem so present and real. The emotions that pass through Sister John are just as real -- this journey she is taking is one of the soul, and it is not an easy one. Her journal entries are so spiritually evocative --<br />'an invisible sun<br />a shock wave of pure Being<br />swept my pain away, swept everything away<br />until all that was left was God.<br />God awakening.'<br />In another entry, she describes the dissolution of the Self to the Eternal Will:<br />'You were here all along.<br />I pierce the universe.<br />God pierces me.<br />I do not think; I am thought.<br />I do not know; I am known.'<br />The luminous journal entries attributed to Sister John are alone worth the read -- but there is so much more to be garnered from this marvelous work. The quotation at the very top, another from her journal, is so true for all of us -- particularly in light of recent terrible events. Her journey -- and its resolution -- can inspire us when we need it the most.<br />This is a book of incredible insight and feeling -- remarkable for its beauty (and frugality) of language. I know that I will find myself returning to it again and again throughout my life. I'm glad it's coming out in paperback -- I can see myself giving a few copies as gifts, and the hardcovers would break me!rnered from this marvelous work. The quotation at the very top, another from her journal, is so true for all of us -- particularly in light of recent terrible events. Her journey -- and its resolution -- can inspire us when we need it the most.<br />This is a book of incredible insight and feeling -- remarkable for its beauty (and frugality) of language. I know that I will find myself returning to it again and again throughout my life. I'm glad it's coming out in paperback -- I can see myself giving a few copies as gifts, and the hardcovers would break me!	2001-09-18
US	47392054	RDQMNYDIYD9OW	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A SKILLFULLY-WRITTEN COMING-OF-AGE NOVEL	Kathy Hepinstall's second novel -- long awaited by fans of her first, THE HOUSE OF GENTLE MEN -- shows that she is no one-book wonder. This novel is well-written and skillfully constructed, intelligent as well as entertaining. She has dodged the dreaded 'sophomore curse' very nicely.<br />Centering around a young sister and brother (Alice, 12, and Boone, 14), the novel gives a stirringly realistic view of the procedings from the point of view of Alice, the narrator, colored beautifully with all of the fantasies and feelings possessed by someone passing through that difficult period in life. She is grappling not only with the events in this story, but with growing up as well. Her brother Boone, being a couple of years older, is still in the throes of these emotions, even if he's a little further down that road. Their reactions and observations to the plot's twists and turns are believably drawn and compelling -- their characters have a depth that we can feel growing as they pass through the trials depicted here.<br />The author is very adept -- as she demonstrated in her earlier novel -- at both developing her story line at a thoughtful, reasonably pace, and building a tension that is so strong (almost without the reader realizing it) that it makes it difficult to put this book down. I read it in two days, and I don't have that much time to read -- I made sure to find the time for this one.<br />All of the characters in the story are searching for something in their lives. Alice and Boone are devastated by the departure of their much-loved father -- seen by them as perfect until he abandons his family -- and are looking for other sources for the love that has been stolen from them. Their mother Meg, one of the most emotionally needy women you could imagine, is desperately searching for a man to fill the gap in her life -- this desperation unfortunately makes her less selective than she should be. The man she finds is Simon Jester, whom she meets when he saves her from drowning. She sees him as her savior on more than one level -- and Simon, a mean-spirited, controlling religious fanatice, sees in Meg an opportunity to manipulate someone completely. Meg, to Simon, is not a human being, but merely a field in which to sow the seed of the son he wants so desperately. His use of religion -- something that should inspire and uplift people -- as a tool to further his own evil agenda is chilling. Persely Snow, the teenage girl accused of poisoning her parents, is a local folk-hero because of her repeated escapes from the local mental institution. Persely -- Boone's object of adoration -- is searching for several things: meaning for her life, revenge for what has been done to her, and a way to let people know the truth about what really happened to her parents and why.<br />There is a dreamlike quality to this work -- although not as much as in THE HOUSE OF GENTLE MEN, and for good reason. I think the nature of the story she's telling here requires that this one be anchored a little more firmly in the 'real world'. Like her other novel, there is a very tangible sense of time and place here -- the feeling is evoked very adeptly, putting us in the story right there beside these memorable characters. There is much to be gained here from repeated readings.<br />I can recommend this book very highly to anyone who enjoys a good read -- mystery, coming-of-age novel, well-crafted allegory -- it's all of these and more. Kathy is a major talent -- I will eagerly await each new effort from this wonderful writer.m drowning. She sees him as her savior on more than one level -- and Simon, a mean-spirited, controlling religious fanatice, sees in Meg an opportunity to manipulate someone completely. Meg, to Simon, is not a human being, but merely a field in which to sow the seed of the son he wants so desperately. His use of religion -- something that should inspire and uplift people -- as a tool to further his own evil agenda is chilling. Persely Snow, the teenage girl accused of poisoning her parents, is a local folk-hero because of her repeated escapes from the local mental institution. Persely -- Boone's object of adoration -- is searching for several things: meaning for her life, revenge for what has been done to her, and a way to let people know the truth about what really happened to her parents and why.<br />There is a dreamlike quality to this work -- although not as much as in THE HOUSE OF GENTLE MEN, and for good reason. I think the nature of the story she's telling here requires that this one be anchored a little more firmly in the 'real world'. Like her other novel, there is a very tangible sense of time and place here -- the feeling is evoked very adeptly, putting us in the story right there beside these memorable characters. There is much to be gained here from repeated readings.<br />I can recommend this book very highly to anyone who enjoys a good read -- mystery, coming-of-age novel, well-crafted allegory -- it's all of these and more. Kathy is a major talent -- I will eagerly await each new effort from this wonderful writer.	2001-09-12
US	47392054	R2MP00PAYBVY3Z	0060981180	965900568	Mariette in Ecstasy	Books	5	81	86	N	N	ENCHANTINGLY BEAUTIFUL WRITING -- A MOVING STORY	Ron Hansen's MARIETTE IN ECTASY is yet another work that I have stumbled across (is there really such a thing as an accident...?) that will go onto my mental shelf of the finest books I've read.  It's a testament to Hansen's imagination and writing skills that a story set in a convent in upstate New York in 1906 could be so compelling, so deeply moving, so filled with achingly crafted images that reveal everyday things in such a new light.  The cloistered sisters, seen by outsiders as drab and similar in appearances, blossom in Hansen's hands as distinct individuals, their characters as varied and deeply developed as any in fiction.  Their devotion, their hopes and fears, their humor, their emotions are all brought to life vividly -- and with the arrival of seventeen year-old Mariette into their midst as as aspiring postulant, everything about their lives changes.<br /><br />Mariette -- blood sister of the current prioress -- is a very devout girl, given to episodes of ecstacy.  Her father, a physician, decribes her as being perhaps 'too highly strung' for a religious calling.  She is a naturally beautiful young woman -- and this fact alone arouses a bit of jealousy and suspicion among her sisters-to-be.  As her ecstatic experiences increase in both frequency and occurrance, some of these suspicions deepen -- and we can see a veritable wall rise up dividing those in the order who love and adore her, taking her experiences as fact, and those who are certain that she is a charlatan, taking them all for a ride.<br /><br />Which group is correct?  The reader must come to this conclusion in his or her own way -- Hansen tells this story so wonderfully, leaving us to decide.  He draws no firm, easy answers for us. This is not a Hollywood film story, all tied up nicely with a bow -- this is a story intended to make us think, to consider its events for ourselves, filtering it as we must, each through the beliefs, imaginations and intellects which we have developed over the courses of our lives.  This is that rare level of writing that is honoring to its readers -- it tells a beautiful, meaningful story without hammering home a preconceived point.  It respects our intelligence, at the same time being enormously entertaining.ourses of our lives.  This is that rare level of writing that is honoring to its readers -- it tells a beautiful, meaningful story without hammering home a preconceived point.  It respects our intelligence, at the same time being enormously entertaining.	2001-09-09
US	47392054	R2N3FCF7V3XGUS	0374115508	881602395	The Book of Mercy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A STORY MOVING ON MANY LEVELS	Kathleen Cambor has produced a first novel of astonishing depth,  feeling and insight.  This is a story that draws the reader inexorably but gently into the lives of a father, daughter, and son, all coming to understand with the passage of time what they have lost -- and struggling to find a way to reclaim it.<br />What they have lost seems to be love and direction.  They feel it at first as an empty ache within themselves, and their paths to understanding it are varied.  Their pain -- as a family and as individuals growing into their lives apart -- is conveyed very skillfully by Cambor's writing abilities.  Her characters are alive -- they each have the usual complement of good and bad attributes.  As their joys and sorrows are placed before us, we can feel them as well -- and we care about them, for they could easily be any one of us.<br />As one of the main characters, Anne, works diligently toward finding her place in life -- becoming, eventually, a psychiatrist -- she discovers at one point how important it is to listen to her patients.  It would seem to be an obvious point, but it is one that so many people today take for granted or ignore.  The key to any successful relationship -- familial, romantic, professional -- is communication.  It opens the door to understanding, to respect, to caring, to humanity itself.  Each of the family members -- and some of the other characters as well -- comes to this revelation in their own way and in their own time.  Some of them hit upon it in time to change their lives for the better, some do not.  Some wounds that heal also leave scars.<br />There are many emotions at play in this novel -- but Cambor never allows it to be carried by emotions alone.  She utilizes a twin narrator technique to good advantage and effect.  Portions of the story are told from the point of view of the father, Edmund Mueller, a retired firefighter struggling to find meaning in his life, battling the nagging question in his later years of what he could have done to hold his family together.  Other parts are told by his daughter Anne -- the love for her family that she tries to suppress, then reclaim;  her own search for meaning and fulfillment in her life.  Her brother Paul, a missionary serving in far-flung third-world cultures, has his own internal battles to fight.<br />Cambor handles all of these characters and points of view with respect and ease -- the novel is intelligently constructed and written, enlightening as well as entertaining.  This is one of the best books I've read this year.could have done to hold his family together.  Other parts are told by his daughter Anne -- the love for her family that she tries to suppress, then reclaim;  her own search for meaning and fulfillment in her life.  Her brother Paul, a missionary serving in far-flung third-world cultures, has his own internal battles to fight.<br />Cambor handles all of these characters and points of view with respect and ease -- the novel is intelligently constructed and written, enlightening as well as entertaining.  This is one of the best books I've read this year.	2001-09-07
US	47392054	RJVNY2XEH0GHM	0679776532	557008872	Believers: A Novella and Stories	Books	2	4	6	N	N	...PLUNGING, SALMON-LIKE, AGAINST THE APPARENT CURRENT...	...sorry, folks.  While I recognize Baxter's talent for mood and description, I found very little about this collection that I liked.  The quote on the back of my hardcover edition from Ann Beattie says 'Some form of spirituality has always waited quietly beneath the surface of many of his stories', and that 'Baxter is a master of articulating the quiet confusion of despair, and of subtly suggesting that despair may, at times, be redemptive...'  There is despair to be found in all of these stories, for sure -- but I found nothing redemptive in it.  The characters that populate these stories seem to me to be almost soulless -- their pain and despair are real to them, but they are so completely unappealing to me that I don't really care.<br />Another reviewer stated that the story 'Reincarnation' allowed him/her to know the meaning of love.  The views on love expressed by the characters in these stories are worlds away from the way I view love -- they strike me as self-centered and hollow, like the conversation at the dinner party depicted in 'Reincarnation'.  The very fact that they could bear to sit around and have such a discussion makes me want to know them even less -- I would have made some lame excuse and fled the gathering early.  From some of the descriptions of the sexual attitudes of the characters in 'Kiss away', 'Reincarnation', 'Saul and Patsy are in labor', 'Flood show' and 'The cures for love', the relationships come off as so purely physical that they were probably doomed from the start -- and we're supposed to mourn this, to ache along with these people over the loss of something that was much less than it should have been in the first place?<br />'The next building I plan to bomb' reads like a script that never made it onto 'Twilight Zone' -- when I came to the last section, I could hear Rod Serling's voice as clear as if he were standing in the room with me.  If this was Baxter's intent, then he was successful.<br />In general, my impressions after reading these stories are of an assorted group of sad, empty people, unable -- or unwilling -- to recognize or deal with some serious issues.  They are either blind to serious dangers in their lives or incapable of letting go of emotional threads connecting -- tying? -- them to pain or dead relationships from their past (and in some cases, their present).<br />Thanks and a tip of the reading cap to Half-Price Books for only asking me to pay $4.95 for this.after reading these stories are of an assorted group of sad, empty people, unable -- or unwilling -- to recognize or deal with some serious issues.  They are either blind to serious dangers in their lives or incapable of letting go of emotional threads connecting -- tying? -- them to pain or dead relationships from their past (and in some cases, their present).<br />Thanks and a tip of the reading cap to Half-Price Books for only asking me to pay $4.95 for this.	2001-09-03
US	47392054	R23TQWVSQT6KWY	0312261713	51164713	The Happiest Days	Books	4	0	2	N	N	A WARM AND INTELLIGENTLY WRITTEN DEBUT	When I came across this slim volume of stories at the library, I didn't read the jacket info closely enough to realize that this was Cressida Connolly's debut. The stories here are impressively well-written and warmly emotional, without being sappy in the least -- they could easily be the work of a seasoned writer.<br />The photo on the book's cover of the two young girls is an appropriate one -- nearly all of the stories center around children or young adults. The two stories that revolve around adults, 'Bare' and 'The bounce', involve children to a lesser degree, but they are there. Connolly has a sharp eye (or is it a memory in some cases...?) and keen observational/descriptive talents. She chooses her words carefully and to great effect. One particular talent she possesses is her ability to tell some of the stories from varying points of view, without allowing the shifts in perspective to become confusing to the reader. This technique is not over-applied, and it adds multiple dimensions to several of the works here.<br />Besides the childhood/young adult perspective that most of these stories share, I found another common thread. In each one, a secret of some sort plays a part in the events -- and a secret is a powerful thing. In some cases, the secret is held by a single character -- in others, it is a secret shared between two characters, or revealed. It always has its consequences -- the power gained, or the events set in motion are not in every case planned or calculated, but they are there nonetheless.<br />Connolly is a very talented writer -- I look forward to reading more by her in the future.	2001-08-29
US	47392054	R3MAVWDQ7OQIZJ	082621293X	703843517	We Who Live Apart: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SKILLFULLY WRITTEN AND ENGAGING	I stumbled across this collection of stories in the library one day -- I'm always on the lookout for new authors to experience -- and what a nice find it was. Joan Connor's stories are intelligently written portraits that draw the reader into their world almost immediately. The characters that populate them are not necessarily extraordinary at first glance -- and not necessarily likable as we get to know them -- much like the people we meet in our everyday lives. Their thoughts, and the choices they make -- the way they view their world and the people around them with whom they interact -- these things make them stand as unique individuals. It is Connor's skill at developing these characters -- almost without us realizing that she is doing it -- that allows me to feel that I know them on a much deeper level. Even in the shortest tales in this collection leave me with the feeling that I have learned much.<br />Also impressive are the author's descriptive skills when applied to the natural surroundings in which these stories take place -- the islands, hills, forests and small towns of New England. She has a way of applying human feelings and attributes to nature that evokes a soul and personality that is there in our environment that many people miss by looking too quickly. For example, take this short but effective passage from the story 'October': 'A few golden leaves drift idly down. October strips itself down to an essential solitude, the bare rough branches of a maple tree raised, pleading.'<br />My favorite selections here are 'The thief of flowers', in which the young narrator learns a lesson about giving and love; 'Ursa Major in Vermont', a rather mystical tale of a bear being repeatedly sighted in and around a small community; 'The Bowlville Cemetery', a wryly humorous tale about a man who is so mean that he won't stay buried; 'Summer girls', a touching recounting of a life-long torch carried by a man for a woman he knew he would never have; and 'Second nature', which I think is my favorite, revealing great unknown depth of character in someone generally regarded as a rustic, eccentric hillbilly.<br />A couple of the works here left me with a deep sense of strangeness, as if I had dreamt them. 'Bluebeard's first wife' is written as a fairy-tale allegory --- it starts out simply and winds up giving the mind quite a spin. 'The last native' also has this dream-like quality to it, but in a more hallucinatory sense.<br />The characters -- and their lives -- in many of these stories are dark, some suffering from alcoholism and depression. These feelings are well-depicted by Connor, but she never allows herself (or her characters) to wallow in them. The feelings are there, and are a part of them -- they are viewed, they affect their lives. I didn't come away from any of these stories with the feeling that I had been subjected to listening to someone bemoaning their fate.<br />I see from the notes on the author that there is another volume of short stories available by Joan Connor, HERE ON OLD ROUTE 7 -- I look forward to experiencing it as well.<br />[For readers who enjoy well-written fiction set in this part of the country, I can also highly recommend works by Howard Frank Mosher, Russell Banks and Ruth Moore.]e', which I think is my favorite, revealing great unknown depth of character in someone generally regarded as a rustic, eccentric hillbilly. <br />A couple of the works here left me with a deep sense of strangeness, as if I had dreamt them. 'Bluebeard's first wife' is written as a fairy-tale allegory --- it starts out simply and winds up giving the mind quite a spin. 'The last native' also has this dream-like quality to it, but in a more hallucinatory sense. <br />The characters -- and their lives -- in many of these stories are dark, some suffering from alcoholism and depression. These feelings are well-depicted by Connor, but she never allows herself (or her characters) to wallow in them. The feelings are there, and are a part of them -- they are viewed, they affect their lives. I didn't come away from any of these stories with the feeling that I had been subjected to listening to someone bemoaning their fate. <br />I see from the notes on the author that there is another volume of short stories available by Joan Connor, HERE ON OLD ROUTE 7 -- I look forward to experiencing it as well. <br />[For readers who enjoy well-written fiction set in this part of the country, I can also highly recommend works by Howard Frank Mosher, Russell Banks and Ruth Moore.]	2001-08-27
US	47392054	R1ZFPO2N1IPXHZ	0874810507	404841633	The Sermon on the Mount According to Vedanta	Books	5	108	110	N	N	A PRICELESS JEWEL OF A BOOK...	Over the course of my life, I have been presented on various occasions with texts described as being 'comparative' of different religions -- usually one religion being stood up against Christianity, the author being a Christian, in an attempt to debunk the teachings of non-Christian faiths. I saw those books as little more than thinly-veiled attempts at propaganda, attempts to spread the Christian message (as the authors saw it) to the 'unsaved, misled masses'.<br />This book, which I originally stumbled across quite by accident, couldn't be further in theme and temperament from that lot -- this is aboslutely the gentlest, most respectful, most loving book that I could imagine on the subject. It makes no attempts at conversion, but in a very scholarly -- yet very readable -- way, takes Christ's Sermon on the Mount (paying special attention to the Beatitudes and the Lord's Prayer) and makes line-by-line comparisons to the ancient teachings of Hinduism.<br />Prabhavananda was a monk of the Ramakrishna Order -- and one of Sri Ramakrishna's most fundamental teachings was the 'oneness of all religions', that, when sincerely believed and practiced, 'all paths lead to the same goal'. This incredible, tender book shows how deeply true his teachings were. Ramakrishna -- a Hindu saint of the 19th century who worshiped God in the form of the Divine Mother, and who experienced ecstatic visions of Christ, Mohammed and Buddha as well -- was one of the most unique, unpretentious, all-encompassing figures in any religion. He embraced them all. Would that we had, in this 'modern, civilized era', when people are still killing each other over the way they each worship God, a teacher so unifying, so true of heart, that could shine the light of wisdom on our folly.<br />Prabhavananda's book brings Ramakrishna's unifying word to modern readers in a wonderful way. I was touched to the core of my soul by this book -- I can wholeheartedly recommend it to anyone who honestly, in their heart, practices ANY faith. It was written to unify, not to divide -- it could be treasured for that alone.<br />For anyone interested in further readings on Sri Ramakrishna, I can recommend THE GOSPEL OF SRI RAMAKRISHNA, or (if this 1000+ page volume is too 'heavy' for you) Lex Hixon's stunning book GREAT SWAN -- MEETINGS WITH RAMAKRISHNA.t, practices ANY faith. It was written to unify, not to divide -- it could be treasured for that alone. <br />For anyone interested in further readings on Sri Ramakrishna, I can recommend THE GOSPEL OF SRI RAMAKRISHNA, or (if this 1000+ page volume is too 'heavy' for you) Lex Hixon's stunning book GREAT SWAN -- MEETINGS WITH RAMAKRISHNA.	2001-08-26
US	47392054	R1KI0GZRQQ0KHR	0393050351	41346786	Island: The Complete Stories	Books	3	11	16	N	N	TALENTED, DEFINITELY -- BUT NOT MY CUP OF TEA...	Fans of Alistair MacLeod, please understand -- I respect his writing abilities, but this book disappointed me.  Perhaps it's too much in the vein of what little I've read of Hemingway and London -- but it just didn't hold me like I anticipated...and yes, I read it all the way through.<br />There were some stories I liked more than others -- but for the most part, I found them to be uninvolving.  His descriptive talents are immense, and his feeling for his subjects and their setting -- Canada's beautiful but harsh Cape Breton Island, for the most part -- is obviously deep and heartfelt.  Perhaps his characters and his storylines are just a little too rough-hewn for me, I can't really put my finger on it.<br />I'm glad I read this book -- I had heard a lot about MacLeod's work in the last year or so -- and I won't go so far as to recommend that others NOT read him.  As I said, his talents are genuine and obvious, and others might enjoy these stories more than I did.  By all means, if you enjoy reading the work of a craftsman, don't ignore this man's writing.<br />I've read collections of short stories in the past year that I enjoyed more -- by Russell Banks, John Biguenet, Adria Bernardi, and (my favorite) William Trevor.	2001-08-20
US	47392054	R2NDRFYW01OO1Q	0759626820	109243929	Lost Innocence: A Daughter's Account of Love, Fear and Desperation (New Beginnings)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A MOVING STORY -- FROM THE CHILD'S POINT-OF-VIEW	Cathy Brochu's book is a moving account of a tragedy that ooccurs far too often in our so-called 'civilzed' society -- a child, whose innocence should be their birthright, selfishly turned into a victim, a sexual plaything, by a parent, the very person to whom she should be able to turn for protection, care, love, honesty and trust. This sort of treatment ruins the lives of many -- among those strong, determined ones who have the opportunity and courage to break out of the trap and reclaim their lives are people who are heroes in the truest sense of the word. They have learned that they are not to blame for their treatment -- that they did not receive it because they deserved it, or because they are somehow 'defective' -- and that, through education, therapy and hard work, they can take back what has been stolen from them. Cathy Brochu has written this book -- detailing graphic, grim events in her life as a young girl -- so that others may find that courage, that they may realize that they are not alone, and that there are many good people out there who care about giving them the help they need.<br />Utilizing a technique unique among the books of this field which I have read, Brochu effectively gives her child-self a voice with which to relate her story. As I read this book, I was struck by the language, the syntax -- it was as if I was reading the hand-written journal of a young girl. I could easily close my eyes and imagine the words written in pencil on one of those old Big Chief tablets that I used in school as a kid.<br />The story is admittedly heartbreaking, but there is a determination in this young narrator -- a determination to free herself from the situation that, as the book progresses, she knows more and more in her heart to be wrong. All of the symptoms and feelings with which victims must struggle and cope on the road to becoming survivors are here -- the feeling that this is the only way she will be loved; the fear of being seperated from her dad, even though he is abusing her; the feeling that she somehow is the one in the wrong -- but in this case, in this book, we see and feel these through the child herself, described in her own words and language.<br />Cathy is planning a trilogy -- this book is the first installment -- detailing her abuse, finding her (physical) freedom, and taking the painful but necessary journey to making her life her own again. This story is a compelling one (all the more because it is true) -- I can wholehertedly recommend it not just to those who are survivors, or to those professionals who work in this vital field, but to the general public as well. The best chance we have to rid ourselves of child abuse, our greatest shame, is through education. This is an unpleasant subject to any right-thinking person -- but it is something that is horrifyingly real to far too many. The more we know about it, the more we learn to recognize the signs present in a child who is secretly being abused, the more light we shine on this topic -- the fewer places there will be for the perpetrators to hide.<br />In 1995, Cathy Brochu was awarded the Women of Courage Award by the Syracuse (NY) Commission for Women -- not only for having the courage and determination to reclaim her own life, but for openly and frankly speaking out on the subject, in order to encourage and empower others to do the same. She and others like her (and thank God, they're out there) are the reason that this battle will one day be won.<br />I'm eagerly awaiting NEW BEGINNINGS, the second volume in the trilogy, as well as the third. We know the story will have a happy ending -- Cathy Brochu is a happy, healthy, productive woman who cares about helping others -- how she got there is the inspiration.ven though he is abusing her; the feeling that she somehow is the one in the wrong -- but in this case, in this book, we see and feel these through the child herself, described in her own words and language.<br />Cathy is planning a trilogy -- this book is the first installment -- detailing her abuse, finding her (physical) freedom, and taking the painful but necessary journey to making her life her own again. This story is a compelling one (all the more because it is true) -- I can wholehertedly recommend it not just to those who are survivors, or to those professionals who work in this vital field, but to the general public as well. The best chance we have to rid ourselves of child abuse, our greatest shame, is through education. This is an unpleasant subject to any right-thinking person -- but it is something that is horrifyingly real to far too many. The more we know about it, the more we learn to recognize the signs present in a child who is secretly being abused, the more light we shine on this topic -- the fewer places there will be for the perpetrators to hide.<br />In 1995, Cathy Brochu was awarded the Women of Courage Award by the Syracuse (NY) Commission for Women -- not only for having the courage and determination to reclaim her own life, but for openly and frankly speaking out on the subject, in order to encourage and empower others to do the same. She and others like her (and thank God, they're out there) are the reason that this battle will one day be won.<br />I'm eagerly awaiting NEW BEGINNINGS, the second volume in the trilogy, as well as the third. We know the story will have a happy ending -- Cathy Brochu is a happy, healthy, productive woman who cares about helping others -- how she got there is the inspiration.	2001-08-10
US	47392054	R3S7QMRYEX8GI3	0822941317	842218165	In the Gathering Woods (Pitt Drue Heinz Lit Prize)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	FOLLOWING A THREAD THROUGH THE TAPESTRY OF TIME...	In this skillfully-written and heartfelt collection of short stories, Adria Bernardi allows us to follow members of an Italian (and Italian-American) family through several generations.  The connections between the characters of these stories are not always direct, and, in some cases, are more implied than stated.  The stories could be read individually, or as a whole, as presented in this volume.<br />Spanning time from roughly post-middle ages to the present, the pieces in this collection allow us not only to observe, but, in some cases, inhabit these characters.  One of the most compelling aspects of Bernardi's prose is her obvious love of and fascination with the mechanics of language itself.  At times, the characters are depicted ruminating over words and their relationships to one another -- and rather than smothering the story itself in dry semantics, Bernardi accomplishes this with a gentle touch, leaving the reader with a very natural feeling of following these thought processes so that we might know these people better.<br />In the second story of the collection, 'Waiting for Giotto', a simple shepherd's son dreams of becoming a great artist, of being an apprentice to the great Giotto, for whom he patiently waits to return to his mountain village, as if by some miracle the great artist would recognize the man's talent and take him away to the city with him.  The man knows in his heart that this will not happen, but he follows his muse ever forward, refusing to give up his calling.  He sees and hears his world going by and going on around him -- people in his small mountain village live their lives as they have for centuries.  Some take it upon themselves to leave and seek their fortunes -- to him, it is a duty and an honor to wait for his calling.<br />One of the most breathtaking passages in this book is contained in this story, when the would-be artist hears a traveller describing the horrors of the wars that are fought on the other side of the mountains:  'They say that Peace, herself, is revolted, and that she holds her stomach and retches; she has hidden her face under a hood and has started to walk away from the battlefields, following along in the ruts made by the wheels of carts, dragging herself along a muddy road that is lined with corpses, not even bothering to lift the hem of her cloak.'<br />The mountain-dwelling artist goes on collecting tiny bits of colored glass to be used in his masterpiece, a mosaic that may never be completed -- or seen by anyone.<br />The mosaic itself is another apt metaphor for the thread that connects these tales.  Up close, it's hard to see -- upon reading the stories in this volume, and viewing them from a distance as a whole, the pattern is clearer.<br />The stories that touched me most deeply are the ones set further away in time and place -- perhaps as the characters in the indivdual stories became more 'Americanized' they appealed less to me.  The pieces follow a roughly chronological order, the last being tied in nicely with the early ones -- in a way that you'll have to read the book to discover for yourself.<br />Bernardi is a very skillful writer -- she has managed to lay bare the soul and psyche of the Italian-American immigrants portrayed here, as well as that of ancestors who never left their village.  Without reciting daily routines in a boring, travelogue-like manner, she has allowed us an intimate glimpse of her characters' daily lives -- and has allowed us to watch them become more acquainted with themselves in the process.<br />I look forward to reading her novel, THE DAY LAID ON THE ALTAR.ns:  'They say that Peace, herself, is revolted, and that she holds her stomach and retches; she has hidden her face under a hood and has started to walk away from the battlefields, following along in the ruts made by the wheels of carts, dragging herself along a muddy road that is lined with corpses, not even bothering to lift the hem of her cloak.'<br />The mountain-dwelling artist goes on collecting tiny bits of colored glass to be used in his masterpiece, a mosaic that may never be completed -- or seen by anyone.<br />The mosaic itself is another apt metaphor for the thread that connects these tales.  Up close, it's hard to see -- upon reading the stories in this volume, and viewing them from a distance as a whole, the pattern is clearer.<br />The stories that touched me most deeply are the ones set further away in time and place -- perhaps as the characters in the indivdual stories became more 'Americanized' they appealed less to me.  The pieces follow a roughly chronological order, the last being tied in nicely with the early ones -- in a way that you'll have to read the book to discover for yourself.<br />Bernardi is a very skillful writer -- she has managed to lay bare the soul and psyche of the Italian-American immigrants portrayed here, as well as that of ancestors who never left their village.  Without reciting daily routines in a boring, travelogue-like manner, she has allowed us an intimate glimpse of her characters' daily lives -- and has allowed us to watch them become more acquainted with themselves in the process.<br />I look forward to reading her novel, THE DAY LAID ON THE ALTAR.	2001-08-10
US	47392054	R84MV4HEYI1Z3	0452269571	906896717	Bastard Out of Carolina	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A MOVING STORY OF DARKNESS AND LIGHT -- AND COURAGE	There are not enough stars in the heavens for this book.<br />Those of us who read a lot, who are moved by life made fiction made real again, know that from time to time a novel or story comes our way that touches and moves us in a way that raises it far above the level of 'literature'.  These experiences are precious and few, rare gems that shine out from the pile, illuminating the finest qualities of the human spirit -- and the darkest depths of its deprivation.  They frighten us, for they show the hardest cruelties of which we are capable -- and they give us hope and courage, for they show the strength and resolve that can arise from our souls in our darkest hours.<br />Dorothy Allison's story of Bone Boatwright is tragic and compellingly well-written -- it tells a tale that all too often is reality for the children who find themselves victims of child abuse, and it shows how this young girl finds within herself the courage and determination not only to extricate herself from this situation, but to stand defiantly tall and go on with her life, realizing that she is not to blame for the treatment she has received.<br />This is an important lesson for those who are victims to learn, so that they may make the journey to becoming survivors, to reclaiming the lives that have been stolen from them.  Bone is a shining example of what it takes to make this transition -- even though the book only follows the first 11-12 years of her life, we are left with a vivid picture of a young woman who has the spirit and guts to accomplish a difficult healing process.  She knows that she has been wronged -- she has learned to begin to focus her anger where it belongs -- and she even comes to accept the dubiously distinctive title of 'bastard', not as a badge of honor to wear proudly, but as a label that she is determined will not define her life.<br />The characters that Allison draws, in another writer's hands, might be reduced to stereotypes.  Here they are both heartwarmingly and chillingly real -- the unlimited bonds of familial love evinced by her uncle Earl and her aunts Ruth and Raylene -- the bonds she shares with her sister Reese, and even her mother Anney, so deep in denial that she cannot see what is happening to her own daughter under her own roof -- and the unmitigated evil and sickness embodied by her stepfather, Daddy Glen.  Some of the Southern cliches are present -- the accents, the brawling, the moonshine -- but they are not the full bodies of the people in this fine novel, but mere characteristics and accessories.  This fine distinction makes the characters believable and real.  Allison grew up in these type of circumstances -- she knows well the place and time of which she writes, and this knowledge is skillfully infused into this painfully tragic, but ultimately uplifting story.<br />This is not an easy novel to read -- not if you have feelings for your fellow human beings.  It's hard to believe that we can cause others among us to suffer so, as in the story here before us -- but it happens far too often, and many people, unlike the courageous Bone, never recover, never stop blaming themselves for what has happened to them.  Those among us who have found the strength and support to face it down and say 'I know what you did is not my fault and you had no right to do it to me' are true heroes -- they deserve our admiration, our respect and our support. Bone Boatwright is such a hero -- her story will move you to the core, and it will bear reading over and over again.<br />[Those of you who have read this wonderful novel and are interested in further exploring the issues raised in another fictional (but equally moving) work might like to check out BITTERROOT LANDING by Sheri Reynolds.]<br />On a final note, this novel has been lovingly transformed into a film (same title), Anjelica Huston's directorial debut.  It is necessarily narrower in scope than the book, but it is also extremely moving -- and well-acted.  It was made for Showtime, so it might be difficult to find in rental outlets -- but it's available from amazon.com at a pretty reasonable price.  Like the book, I think you'll want to give it repeated viewings.for Showtime, so it might be difficult to find in rental outlets -- but it's available from amazon.com at a pretty reasonable price.  Like the book, I think you'll want to give it repeated viewings.	2001-07-22
US	47392054	R26FD5FIDLDZS2	0140120653	665856563	Silence in the Garden (King Penguin)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	IN DEEP BEFORE YOU KNOW IT...	...and therein lies only one facet of William Trevor's amazing gift.  When I began this book, I thought I had stumbled upon a novel in a 'lighter' category by Trevor -- before I realized it, I was completely enmeshed in this story and its characters.  Trevor's prose is incredibly crafted -- his attention to detail and his ability to develop his characters are almost without peer, but neither of these talents overshadows his story.<br />As in most of his marvelous writing, there are twists and turns awaiting the reader -- revelations completely unforseen and unimagined.  As always, he brings the Irish character -- both individual and en masse -- to life completely and gently.  Meticulous details are made known to us quietly, so that by midway through the this absorbing work, we almost feel that we are living among these people.  He has the ability to allow us to know them without feeling we've been told about any of them -- more like we've gained the knowledge over time.<br />We see Sarah Polexfen come to the Irish island estate of Carriglas to serve as governess to the children of her relations, the Rollestons.  Life there seems peaceful and detached -- but she senses there is something troubling under the surface, something of which she is not told and is unaware.  Years later, when she returns to the island -- the children are grown, their father dead, the grandmother an aged matriarch -- events from the past begin to come clearer, verifying her earlier intuitions.  The story is played out over a period from the early part of the 20th century, seeing the beginning of the 'troubles' in Ireland, to the early 1980s -- and the family looks much different in hindsight than when she first arrived.<br />There is a sweet sadness present in this story -- as in much of Trevor's writing -- but it never becomes maudlin.  The events and dialogue are intelligent and, in their own way, endearing -- for we find ourselves growing to care about these characters, even the ones who are less than admirable.  For in the end, they are only human, and humans have frailties and warts, and commit transgressions, no matter how admirable they may seem from a distance.<br />Every single work of William Trevor's fiction that I have read has been a great experience -- if you've never sipped from his cup, start here...start anywhere.  His novels and short stories are equally amazing and well-written -- I cannot recommend his work as a whole highly enough.re less than admirable.  For in the end, they are only human, and humans have frailties and warts, and commit transgressions, no matter how admirable they may seem from a distance.<br />Every single work of William Trevor's fiction that I have read has been a great experience -- if you've never sipped from his cup, start here...start anywhere.  His novels and short stories are equally amazing and well-written -- I cannot recommend his work as a whole highly enough.	2001-07-06
US	47392054	R1QHTO9Y7N3VA2	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	5	5	7	N	N	HORRIFYING -- FASCINATING -- COMPELLING	The reader might note that, as I enter the fray with my own comments about this controversial novel, there are, below mine, 77 other reviews posted.  All of this for a book that many people have never heard of -- one that has obviously stirred radically conflicting feelings and opinions amongst its readers, and which has been both lauded as genius and derided as drivel by its critics.  The same could be said of many works that have retained their character and individuality -- and their ability to stir controversy -- for many years after they first appeared.<br />To state the inescapable conclusion:  this book is definitely not everyone's cup of tea.  That being said, I think it's also safe to say that, once read, it will never be forgotten.<br />Iain Banks has produced here, like it or not (and there are few opinions that inhabit the no-man's land between these two extremes), a little masterpiece of psychological horror, and a pretty compellingly-told mystery as well.  Even if, as some reviewers maintain, the ending is not a surprise, this novel is still a firghtening, vivid read -- a look into a mind that is twisted (from within and without) to the breaking point, with hell to pay for almost everyone in the general vicinity of the young Frank Cauldhame, Banks' unforgettable protagonist with the very appropriate surname.<br />Take Golding's LORD OF THE FLIES, Burgess' A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, McGrath's SPIDER, Russell Banks' RULE OF THE BONE -- and any other well-written portrait of alienated and abused youth, and you might have the beginnings of Iain Banks' disturbingly maladjusted Frank, playing out his fantasies of just deserts in his head and in his world.  There is unimaginable cruelty at work here -- on and by the youngster at the center of this literary maelstrom.  The pace of the story is never rushed, but the reader is incresingly unable to put the book down as it travels unflinchingly to its climax.<br />Love it or leave it -- it will return to haunt you again and again.and again.	2001-06-24
US	47392054	R2ZEYMJOQGK577	0060923245	545070532	Sweet Hereafter: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	IT'S ALL IN THE ANGLES...	Russell Banks' precisely-crafted novel takes an interesting technique -- 4 different views of the same tragedy by 4 different narrators -- and uses it to show that the same chain of events can yield as many different realities as there are observers.<br />The tragedy in this case -- a schoolbus full of children skids on an icy road and plunges into a frozen, water-filled, abandoned quarry, killing and crippling many of a small town's progeny -- is seen, alternately, as an accident or negligence, an opportunity for justice or revenge, as an excuse for heroics or submitting to despair, by various characters in this drama set in rural New York state, near the Canadian border.<br />  Into the fray wades New York City personal injury lawyer Mitchell Stevens -- who has problems of his own. He tries (sometimes in vain) to show the grieving mourners and survivors how they can come together to mete out a ringing punishment against 'those responsible'.  It's an uphill battle, and Stevens, an outsider, is met with predictable suspicion by many of the locals.  His efforts to convince them of the merits of the case and their view of events don't necessarily coincide, to say the least -- and his attempts to deal with his own personal demons take a toll on his life as well.<br />Through his adept use of multiple narrators -- which in the hands of a writer of lesser ability would be cumbersome -- Banks allows the reader to learn many things about these characters, and watch as they learn things about themselves as well.  The success or failure of the case comes down to the testimony of one person, high-school beauty queen Nicole Burnell, left in a wheelchair by the accident, who, as it turns out, has an unforseen card up her sleeve -- and in playing it, shows us all too clearly that even justice has more than one face.<br />Banks is one of America's most skillful contemporary writers -- he has several acclaimed novels to his credit, and a hefty volume of some of the finest short fiction anywhere, THE ANGEL ON THE ROOF, to show for his efforts as well.  His stories and characters have a way of intertwining and reappearing -- the wrecked schoolbus from this novel pops up again in his RULE OF THE BONE.  He is becoming increasingly recognized for his work, and justly so.  THE SWEET HEREAFTER is a poignant look at how everyday people react to and grow through a tragedy such as we all hope we never have to endure.  None of these characters is 'perfect' -- and that just makes them more real.<br />This is an entertaining, well-written novel with a nice twist -- and much more satisfying than the film, which wasn't a bad adaptation...but you should definitely read the book first.t fiction anywhere, THE ANGEL ON THE ROOF, to show for his efforts as well.  His stories and characters have a way of intertwining and reappearing -- the wrecked schoolbus from this novel pops up again in his RULE OF THE BONE.  He is becoming increasingly recognized for his work, and justly so.  THE SWEET HEREAFTER is a poignant look at how everyday people react to and grow through a tragedy such as we all hope we never have to endure.  None of these characters is 'perfect' -- and that just makes them more real.<br />This is an entertaining, well-written novel with a nice twist -- and much more satisfying than the film, which wasn't a bad adaptation...but you should definitely read the book first.	2001-06-24
US	47392054	R322F5CWX16QW5	0679736301	353322797	Spider	Books	5	40	42	N	N	NEVER MIND HIS PARLOUR....	...take a step into Spider's mind -- and after you do that, you'd better pray that the door didn't slam shut behind you.  You're definitely going to want a way out -- this is a pret-ty scary place.<br />Of the three novels and one book of short stories I've read by Patrick McGrath, this, I believe, is his masterpiece.  As Spider narrates his story -- in an almost-torrential syntax that in itself reveals a lot about him -- the reader is inexorably drawn further and further into the mind of a man who is slipping away before our eyes.  Spider is hanging on to the ledge of reality by his fingernails, while events conspire to take their turn trodding on his fingers.  His thoughts and fears are as real to us as if they were our own.  His world -- more-or-less present-day London -- seems as alien to us as a Martian landscape.  Everyday people, events, objects and places leap out of the mist at him with frightening intensity -- we feel our breath and our pulse quicken repeatedly as he/we attempt to deal with the ever-more threatening reality of daily life in a halfway house, as images and ghosts from the past intermingle with pieces of the present, and it gets harder and harder to tell one from the other.<br />McGrath is, at the core, a master story-teller.  His interest in the psychological most likely stems from his father's work at Broadmoor Hospital in England, where he grew up.  All of his works share an eye for detail, and the care he takes in doing his homework is very apparent.  This book is one of the most compelling, captivating and frightening portraits of madness I have ever read -- and it's thoroughly entertaining as well.  It's staggering how much power McGrath has been able to cram into this slim volume -- without crowding out a fine story, told with a uniquely fractured clarity and in an unforgettable tone.<br />The reader is also encouraged to check out a couple of his other fine novels:  ASYLUM and THE GROTESQUE.  The former is one of the most unusual love stories I've ever run across, and the latter will surprise and reward you with its combination of suspense and wickedly funny humor.<br />I'll take Patrick McGrath, a true modern master of the Gothic style, over any of the mass-producing 'scary novel' writing machines (who are so in vogue) any day.  The quality of his work will surely stand the test of time.  I would suggest not reading any of these with the light off, but that would be difficult, would it not...e stories I've ever run across, and the latter will surprise and reward you with its combination of suspense and wickedly funny humor.  <br />I'll take Patrick McGrath, a true modern master of the Gothic style, over any of the mass-producing 'scary novel' writing machines (who are so in vogue) any day.  The quality of his work will surely stand the test of time.  I would suggest not reading any of these with the light off, but that would be difficult, would it not...	2001-06-24
US	47392054	R3811P6ZXJ0ATO	0140077480	57478858	Where the Rivers Flow North	Books	5	23	24	N	N	MOSHER DESERVES WIDER ATTENTION	I'm saddened to see far too many people pigeon-hole Howard Frank Mosher as a 'writer of regional interest' -- maybe only those who live along the Mississippi should read Mark Twain, then.  True, Mosher's books all take place in Vermont -- but these are such well-written, absorbing stories, the characters so unforgettable, that any one who appreciates fine literature can thoroughly enjoy them.<br />This volume collects 6 of Mosher's short stories along with the title novella -- the latter being possibly his most well-known work, having been made into an exceptional film with the amazingly-talented Rip Torn in the role of a lifetime as Noel Lord, Mosher's cantankerous ex-lumberjack.  Lord is mentioned in some of the other stories, as well as in some of Mosher's novels -- and other characters make appearances in more than one work as well.<br />Set in 1927 Vermont, 'Where the rivers flow north' takes the familiar theme of the rugged individualist going up against the evil, unfeeling corporation, and breathes new life into it.  Mosher's flowing style, combined with his incredible ability to bring to the printed page all the nuances of his characters' personalities -- warts and all -- give this and all of his works  the finishing touches that only a fine craftsman can give.  Noel Lord's Native American housekeeper/wife, Bangor, is one of the most memorable characters you'll ever run across.  She and Lord have a classic yin-yang relationship that, most likely, neither one would acknowledge.  A reader from any part of the nation can get inside these people, can feel and experience everything that happens to them -- and any time we can do that, we can learn and we can grow.<br />The characters in all of the stories here are, as in all of Mosher's works, vividly drawn -- Alabama Jones, the innocent-but-worldly aspiring carnival performer -- Burl, an old woman lying in a nursing home waiting to die, looking back at her life with a combination of bitterness and longing -- Eban and Walter, brothers, neighbors, at odds in their life over things large and small, but brothers -- a man dying, clinging to life through a kept peacock -- a boy passes through a coming-of-age event, a flood, which changes forever the way he views both his brother and his father -- another man, Henry Coville, makes some painful recollections and decisions as he feels the end of his life approach.  Mosher paints them all with the deft brush strokes of an artist who intimately knows his subjects and the landscape in which their lives are played out.<br />Howard Frank Mosher is an immensely talented, always entertaining writer -- he deserves to be widely read, and what a treat is awaiting those who read him for the first time...!n and Walter, brothers, neighbors, at odds in their life over things large and small, but brothers -- a man dying, clinging to life through a kept peacock -- a boy passes through a coming-of-age event, a flood, which changes forever the way he views both his brother and his father -- another man, Henry Coville, makes some painful recollections and decisions as he feels the end of his life approach.  Mosher paints them all with the deft brush strokes of an artist who intimately knows his subjects and the landscape in which their lives are played out.<br />Howard Frank Mosher is an immensely talented, always entertaining writer -- he deserves to be widely read, and what a treat is awaiting those who read him for the first time...!	2001-06-24
US	47392054	R382U66VSPZBT1	0140258345	710780287	After Rain: Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	PERHAPS THE GREATEST SHORT STORY WRITER OF OUR TIME	I keep reading book after book by Irish-born author William Trevor -- short stories and novels alike -- expecting that, sooner or later, I will be disappointed.  I've decided that I'm not going to hold my breath...<br />Trevor's fiction is in a class of its own -- for most of what I've read by him, 5 stars do not do it justice.  His style is illuminating, compelling and precise -- descriptions are all-encompassing and concise at the same time.  His powers of observation and his ability to relate what he observes, transposed onto the lives of his characters, are immense -- and with all of this in play, there is a prevailing sense of calm in his work, a gentleness of vision that draws the reader into these stories, giving the worlds they illustrate a vital reality that lives and breathes within these pages.<br />Each of these stories is like a painting -- there is as palpable a sense of light in these incredible works as in any of the great works by Rembrandt.  They reveal more with each reading, just as repeated looks at Rembrandt's paintings acquire greater and greater detail with each viewing, as we study them.<br />None of this  is to imply that Trevor's stories are clinical and dull, merely objects for study.  These works are infinitely entertaining, so finely crafted that the reader is pulled into the worlds they depict without realizing it.  It is as if the characters are living around us, that we are at the center of Trevor's imagination along with them.  He is a master at conveying their perception of their world, the struggle as they attempt to deal with events that surround them and shape their characters and lives.<br />The photo of Trevor on the rear of the book shows a man who appears to be unassuming and gently self-assured at the same time, a man who is not out to show off, one who has been moved to graciously share his gift with us.  When the sad day comes that this fine writer is no longer with us, I feel sure that we will look back upon his works as some of the finest the 20th (and now the 21st) century was privileged to see.<br />Many of this fine author's works are available through amazon.com -- I encourage you to explore them.  It will be a very rewarding journey.as some of the finest the 20th (and now the 21st) century was privileged to see.<br />Many of this fine author's works are available through amazon.com -- I encourage you to explore them.  It will be a very rewarding journey.	2001-06-23
US	47392054	R3512L4IEK61SF	0517885166	175986091	Opal: The Journal of an Understanding Heart	Books	5	43	43	N	N	A FRESH, MOVING VIEW OF OUR WORLD	I'll start out by saying that I have not read the original version of Opal's diary, nor have I read the book by Benjamin Hoff on the diary that is so highly regarded.  When I first began to search locally for anything by or about Opal Whiteley, this book was the only one I could obtain.  It did not disappoint.<br />I was led to seek out this remarkable work (written by a young girl of 5-6 years just after 1900) through singer-songwriter Anne Hills.  I had heard Anne perform a song called 'Brown leaves' -- words of Opal Whiteley, set to music at Anne's request by her good friend, songwriting genius Michael Smith.  She explained the background of the song to the audience that night, and I was deeply touched by it -- enough so that I began to look for the book the very next day.<br />Orphaned before she was 5, adopted by an Oregon lumberman and his wife and transported across the country to live in nearly 20 lumber camps by the time she was 12 years old, Opal turned to the beauty of the natural world around her and saw it like no one I've read before or since I discovered this amazing journal.  Not only is her keen sense of observation astounding for a girl of her age, but the unique language in which she conveys it to us allows the reader to do away with any preconceptions that might be held, revealing our world in an entirely original, glorius light.  It's almost like seeing for the first time.<br />A brief sample:  'Now are come the days of leaves.  They talk with the wind.  I hear them tell of their borning days.  They whisper of the hoods they wear.  Today they talk of the time  before their borning days.  They tell how they were a part of the earth and the air before their tree-borning days.  In grey days of winter they go back to earth again.  But they do not die.'<br />This young girl was possessed of an incredible mind -- she understood what she saw in the forest around her better than most adults, and she articulated it in such a way as to make it spring to life as only the mind of a child can do.<br />The writings, in their original form, were made by Opal on note-paper, wrapping paper, scraps of paper bags, whatever she could lay her hands on -- in the closely-spaced, all-capitals scrawl of a girl of 5 or 6 with little or no formal education.  The scraps of paper remained hidden in the Oregon woods until Opal was 20 -- it's a micacle (and a blessing to us) that they survived.  When she had retrieved the scraps, it took her 9 months to reassemble them.<br />There are many aspects of Opal's life that are still mysteries to us -- some of these are touched upon by the introduction and afterward by Jane Boulton, who assembled this volume, and by a postscript from Opal herself.<br />This is one of those books that will continue to touch and affect the reader for a lifetime -- Opal Whiteley's voice is a fresh, powerful and unforgettable one.  If more people could experience the pure, unadorned beauty of the world through the lens of this work, perhaps the fight to preserve and protect our fragile environment would be an easier battle to win.<br />As a final note, Anne Hills' recording of 'Brown leaves' can be heard on her fine cd 'Angle of the light', available through amazon.com.to life as only the mind of a child can do.<br />The writings, in their original form, were made by Opal on note-paper, wrapping paper, scraps of paper bags, whatever she could lay her hands on -- in the closely-spaced, all-capitals scrawl of a girl of 5 or 6 with little or no formal education.  The scraps of paper remained hidden in the Oregon woods until Opal was 20 -- it's a micacle (and a blessing to us) that they survived.  When she had retrieved the scraps, it took her 9 months to reassemble them.<br />There are many aspects of Opal's life that are still mysteries to us -- some of these are touched upon by the introduction and afterward by Jane Boulton, who assembled this volume, and by a postscript from Opal herself.<br />This is one of those books that will continue to touch and affect the reader for a lifetime -- Opal Whiteley's voice is a fresh, powerful and unforgettable one.  If more people could experience the pure, unadorned beauty of the world through the lens of this work, perhaps the fight to preserve and protect our fragile environment would be an easier battle to win.<br />As a final note, Anne Hills' recording of 'Brown leaves' can be heard on her fine cd 'Angle of the light', available through amazon.com.	2001-06-23
US	47392054	R3DF8I3PX1X8Y6	0385312377	149732156	The Butcher Boy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	UNSETTLING AND UNFORGETTABLE	This is one of those books that will shake you to the core, and one that you will remember for the rest of your life -- whether you claim to 'like' it or not.<br />McCabe's 'stream of consciousness' writing techniques greatly add to the discomfort the reader must feel in looking at the world through the eyes of Francie Brady -- a pre-teen Irish lad with a distinctly dark outlook on life.  And it's no wonder his outlook is dark, considering the things he's been through -- the death of his mother, living with an alcoholic, abusive father, and generally being considered to be the blackest sheep in the history of his small Irish town.<br />Francie's adventures -- and their consequences -- make for an absorbing if frightening story.  The book is perfectly written for this type of tale...and for once, the film version stands up right alongside the book (probably because McCabe had a lot to do with it as well).	2001-06-09
US	47392054	R2XTCGHR8DVWIS	0060198354	478774282	The Torturer's Apprentice: Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A BOUQUET OF LITERARY MIRACLES	The notes on the jacket of this slim but impressive volume let the reader know that this is John Biguenet's first book of fiction -- I certainly hope it's not his last.  These stories are incredible -- small miracles of creation, blossoming before the reader's eyes to reveal incredible depths for works so short.<br />Without accusing the author of being in the shadow of other writers, I am reminded in some places of the best works by Fuentes, Garcia-Marquez, Calvino and other authors who have shown themselves to be masters at creating a world on the printed page.  Biguenet is capable of the same feats of creation, but in his own unique style -- it's wonderful to see a 'new' American author working on this level.<br />His characters live and breathe -- the worlds in which they live are there for us to experience by feel, smell, taste, touch and sound -- and the thoughts and emotions of  the inhabitants of these created worlds are ours to know as well.<br />Every single work in this volume is a gem --- any of them alone would be worth the price of this book.  If Mr. Biguenet can write short stories like this, I wonder what kind of novel he could write...?  But only if he isn't tempted to give up work on the short form -- short story writers of this calibre are rare in today's America.  I look forward to reading more of his carefully crafted writing.	2001-06-08
US	47392054	R2U3U91WSFEIHH	0312262892	19279237	Breathing Water	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A WELL-WRITTEN, INVOLVING READ	I certainly hope that any potential reader that stumbles across this book doesn't make the mistake of pigeonholing it as a 'women's novel' -- the author is a woman, yes, and she's dealing with a subject that affects (too many) women, domestic abuse. This novel is one that should appeal to a broad variety of readers -- anyone who appreciates a well-written, intelligently conceived story that deals so convincingly with such an important topic.  The quoted kudos on the back cover (hardback edition) from such luminaries as Larry McMurtry and Howard Frank Mosher should give a clue as to the talent at work here.<br />Greenwood's characterizations are honest and complete -- warts and all, as they say.  No character is without flaws, which adds to the overall feeling of believability.  The reader might be tempted to chastise Effie Greer for not seperating herself sooner from the man who beats and abuses her -- but here, as in real life, there are many emotions and feelings at play.  The abused is torn -- between what she knows in an intellectual sense is the right thing for her to do, and what her emotions are trying to convince her to do, to hang on and hope against hope that 'things will get better'.  There are hard decisions to be made in such a situation in 'real life', and they are no easier for Effie to make in this novel.<br />The subject -- and part of the book as well -- is dark, but this work also contains optimism and hope, and is ultimately an uplifting reading experience.  Greenwood's other novel, NEARER THAN THE SKY, is equally rewarding.  The quality of these two novels gives me cause to look forward to more from this talented writer.	2001-06-05
US	47392054	R109T5IXO9KAP	0380978091	838030657	The House of Gentle Men	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A BREATHTAKING DEBUT	This is an amazing book -- intelligently conceived and well-written enough to be admired if it were the product of any writer.  The fact that it's Kathy Hepinstall's first novel would be undetectable if not for the mention of that fact on the dust jacket.<br />(No 'spoiling' information is given here -- most of what I reveal about the story can be garnered from the jacket...)<br />Set in rural Louisiana just before and after World War II, the story centers on a young woman named Charlotte, who, like most girls her age, is struggling with all of the usual changes involved in growing up.  After the death of her mother in a tragic home accident, Charlotte is left feeling very alone in her life, longing for a love like that seemingly found by one of her friends, a 'soldier from the sky'.  She finds her soldier, all right, but things don't turn out nearly as idyllic as she hopes.<br />Surviving a brutal rape, and the subsequent birth of her child, whom she views as a demon due to the manner in which it was conceived, Charlotte retreats into herself, becoming a mute by choice.  Finding herself again, and the journey she undertakes to resolve the damage she has suffered, to reclaim her life and find some sort of happiness there, make for a fascinating, sensitively-written story.  Kathy Hepinstall takes the reader's hand gently, leading us through these events along with Charlotte -- we find our way along with her.<br />This is one of the most absorbing, involving stories I've ever come across, definitely one of my literary highlights of 2000.  Anyone who appreciates and enjoys well-crafted fiction owes it to themselves to read this book.  This is a superb debut from a writer who has it within her to be one of our outstanding literary talents -- I can't wait to see what she does next.	2001-06-01
US	47392054	R3BYQC6IMQTLVZ	0140290214	226975137	Felicia's Journey	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AN UNDERSTATED PORTRAIT OF INNOCENCE AND EVIL	I'll start by admitting that I think William Trevor has few if any equals among contemporary writers -- especially considering his works as a whole.  He also appears to just keep getting better and better, and 'Felicia's journey' is a great example of that growth.<br />Trevor's writing is simply luminous -- I can think of no better word to decribe it.  His characters all come alive in ways that are extremely rare in modern fiction -- as the reader gets deeper and deeper into the novel, the characters are almost grown before  our eyes.  We know them before we realize it -- but only at the pace that Trevor controls.  His powers of decription are so well-honed and subtle that reading his work is almost like seeing things with our own eyes.<br />In 'Felicia's journey', without having any of the characters' emotions or thoughts rammed down our throats, we are intimately aware of their feelings.  We can without question feel the uncertainty and trepidation with which Felicia lives her life -- more one step at a time than one day at a time.  Her initial reluctance to allow Mr. Hillditch to help her is incredibly real to us.  As for Hillditch himself, the evil contained in his character is revealed like peeling the layers of an onion (and I'm not giving anything more away here than the book jacket...no spoilers).<br />The novel is much more satisfying than the film made of it by Canadian director Atom Egoyan.  There are aspects of the story here that the film leaves unexplored, and a richness here that is probably untranslatable to the screen, except in the hands of a master director.<br />If you enjoy tasting the work of an author who is a master at his craft, William Trevor is your cup of tea -- and his short stories are, if possible, even more amazing than his novels.  This book is a modern masterpiece, without pretentions or avant-garde experimentaion -- it's simply incredible writing.	2001-05-31
US	47392054	R1SW9W1ZEZ7T5X	0140290214	226975137	Felicia's Journey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	AN UNDERSTATED PORTRAIT OF INNOCENCE AND EVIL	I'll start by admitting that I think William Trevor has few if any equals among contemporary writers -- especially considering his works as a whole.  He also appears to just keep getting better and better, and 'Felicia's journey' is a great example of that growth.<br />Trevor's writing is simply luminous -- I can think of no better word to decribe it.  His characters all come alive in ways that are extremely rare in modern fiction -- as the reader gets deeper and deeper into the novel, the characters are almost grown before  our eyes.  We know them before we realize it -- but only at the pace that Trevor controls.  His powers of decription are so well-honed and subtle that reading his work is almost like seeing things with our own eyes.<br />In 'Felicia's journey', without having any of the characters' emotions or thoughts rammed down our throats, we are intimately aware of their feelings.  We can without question feel the uncertainty and trepidation with which Felicia lives her life -- more one step at a time than one day at a time.  Her initial reluctance to allow Mr. Hillditch to help her is incredibly real to us.  As for Hillditch himself, the evil contained in his character is revealed like peeling the layers of an onion (and I'm not giving anything more away here than the book jacket...no spoilers).<br />The novel is much more satisfying than the film made of it by Canadian director Atom Egoyan.  There are aspects of the story here that the film leaves unexplored, and a richness here that is probably untranslatable to the screen, except in the hands of a master director.<br />If you enjoy tasting the work of an author who is a master at his craft, William Trevor is your cup of tea -- and his short stories are, if possible, even more amazing than his novels.  This book is a modern masterpiece, without pretentions or avant-garde experimentaion -- it's simply increible writing.	2001-05-31
US	47392054	R2ROME5G9I0K67	0312255012	277559952	A Prayer for the Dying	Books	5	18	20	N	N	RIVETING AND BLEAK -- AND STUNNING	I came across this unusual novel by Stewart O'Nan quite by accident.  I had never heard of the author or the book, and was simply browsing through one of my local bookstores one day, when the cover caught my eye -- something about it was familiar to me, although I couldn't quite put my finger on what it was.<br />I picked up the book and leafed through it, thought it looked interesting and took it home.  I was drawn into the story immediately -- by O'Nan's unusual use of the second person narrative, certainly, but mainly by his amazing descriptive talents, both of scene and emotions.  The story laid out here is a horrific one -- as are the choices faced by the main character.  The novel, as life, never ties up all of the questions raised with easy answers -- O'Nan leaves that to the imagination and conscience of his reader, and I for one got a sense of respect from him in that aspect.<br />It was only after finishing the book that I realized what was familiar about the cover.  On the page containing the publishing and cataloguing data, O'Nan credits Michael Lesy, author of the book 'Wisconsin death trip', as the source of the cover photo.  I have that book, and another by Lesy, published in the early 70s, containing photographs and newspaper clippings from the era (and area) in which this novel takes place.  O'Nan was inspired by the images and events contained in Lesy's book to give an expanded, fictionalized account of some of those events -- and he has done so to great effect.<br />Not the 'feel-good hit of the summer' by any means -- but I highly recommend this book to anyone who likes a well-written, challenging read.	2001-05-30
US	47392054	R1TQDBCTBWD6RO	0826321933	707032291	Wisconsin Death Trip	Books	5	94	97	N	N	A HARROWING PORTRAIT	The first of Michael Lesy's books, 'Wisconsin death trip' is as harrowing and breathtaking today as when it was first published, back in the early 1970s.  Utilizing a veritable treasure-trove of miraculously preserved glass negative plates taken in rural Wisconsin during the period of the 1880s-early 20th Century, and combining them with newspaper clippings and other snippets of local news from the area and era, Lesy has pieced together an amazing (if bleak) view of life in that day and age.  Times were hard, and the challenges faced were many and daunting -- anyone bemoaning the state of life in America today should read this book...anyone who wants a truer sense of American history should read this book.  You will never forget it.<br />On a related note, readers might be interested to know that this book inspired Stewart O'Nan's great novel 'A prayer for the dying' (also available through amazon.com).	2001-05-30
US	47392054	R3PW5FJDIY3MM9	042516246X	681910708	Bitterroot Landing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	MOVING, UPLIFTING...AND EMPOWERING	This is one of those occasions where I'm sorry that I can give no more than five stars to a work.  Sheri Reynolds has done a sensitive, masterful and intelligent job here -- this book is not only a fine piece of literature, it's a service to humankind that it was written.  While some of the scenes and images may be a bit graphic for some readers, they are ultimately necessary to convey the events and emotions experienced by the main character.<br />Incest is an ugly thing, but a real thing -- it occurs in our so-called 'civilized' society, whether people want to admit it or not.  And dealing with it, and its life-long effects on the victims/survivors is a struggle that can crush a weak spirit.  The one who has been victimized must reach down, deep inside and find that strength of spirit and determination to fight back against its devastating effects, to reclaim and reinvent their lives.  This is an incredibly moving depiction of such a struggle.<br />The author manages to put us INSIDE Jael's heart and soul and mind -- we journey this difficult road along with her, discovering the roots of her trauma only as she discovers them herself.  The flashback scenes are particularly compelling -- their meanings become clearer and clearer with the passage of time.<br />When I got his book recently, I read it one day, then re-read it over the next 2-3 days -- I wanted to burn this story and these characters into my mind while the images were still fresh.  I sat in the laundromat reading, completely unashamed of the tears streaming down my face -- someone I love very much has been facing this with incredible courage over the last three years, and I couldn't help but see her on almost every page.<br />I cannot recommend this novel highly enough -- it does more than anything I've ever read to help the reader understand and relate to the pain, struggle and courage that are involved in 'walking the path' to recovery.	2001-04-09
US	47392054	R3HZY8VDUH567Y	0609803875	380393154	A Gracious Plenty: A Novel	Books	5	31	36	N	N	LET FINCH TEACH US TO FLY...	I picked up this novel by Sheri Reynolds a couple of days ago -- I hadn't heard anything about the author or about the book, it simply caught my eye in the bookstore.  After reading it, I can say without a doubt that it is one of the most memorable, arresting books I've ever read.  The main character, Finch Nobles, is an amazing and inspirational figure -- but very human, and therefore easy to relate to.  (Sorry about the preposition -- get over it)  The author has presented the reader with a novel view of life after death, and has shown how this character has learned from the departed many important things about living.  The passage in the novel that keeps coming back to me:<br />  We choose our truths the way we choose our gods, single-sightedly, single-mindedly, no other way to feel or see or think.  We lock ourselves into our ways, and click all the truths into one.  We put our truths together in pieces, but you use nails and I use glue.  You mend with staples.  I mend with screws.  You stitch what I would bandage.  Your truth may not look like mine, but that is not what matters.  What matters is this:  You can look at a scar and see hurt, or you can look at a scar and see healing.  Try to understand.<br />  Too often in our everyday lives we overlook the talents and traits of those around us by focusing on their 'defects'.  We need to try to learn to see the whole person when we look at someone.  We can all learn a lot from this book.	2001-03-23
