US	47412112	R229JMAAVX4SMK	1591160529	468617949	Inuyasha, Volume 5	Books	5	0	0	N	N	TONIGHT I'M A BOY	As Inuyasha and company are sailing down a river they encounter a girl named Nazuna as she is escaping from a spider-head demon. It seems the whole area is infested with the spiders who take the heads of humans, except for a temple which is inhabited by Nazuna and a wizened priest. But when the spiders break into the temple, Inuyasha is at a loss because it just happens to be the time in all half-demons lives when they lose their demonic power and become fully human for a short time! Our heroes will have to use their brains instead of brawn this time. After that they will have to deal with a witch that steals Kikyo's bones in an effort to resurrect the priestess that imprisoned Inuyasha for 50 years!  <br /> <br />What can I say about any work by Rumiko Takahasi? They are probably the best manga out there! She is a genius! The great thing about this volume is that we learn a bit more about the past conflict between Inuyasha and Kikyo and that their relationship was a bit more \\"involved\\" than we were led to believe. It wasn't just a simple battle for the possession of the Shikon Jewel. The twist of making Inuyasha become a human for a night was also a clever twist in the plot. Rumiko seems full of surprises in what is essentially an action manga. Excellent work!	2005-10-14
US	47412112	R2SVRVHUM7LY4O	1931514518	181185441	Kodocha: Sana's Stage, Volume 2	Books	2	0	2	N	N	JUST REVEAL YOUR INNERMOST HEART	Sana's relationship with her bad boy classmate Akito has gotten somewhat better. They've even started to confide and lean on each other in times of trouble. Akito might even have other feelings besides that of friendship lurking behind those oh so amused but frighteningly empty eyes of his! But Sana's heart is with her manager/gigolo Rei and she's thrown into fits of anxiety and jealousy when she finds out her co-star Asako Kurumi is Rei's ex and the reason behind her meeting him as a homeless bum. And it looks like Asako wants to maybe reignite things like the old days!  <br /> <br />This second volume was a little too heavy on the serious side of things for my taste. I could read shojo to get this type of experience. What I liked about Volume 1 was its zany and offbeat humor. This one seems to focus more on the characters mini-dramas and feelings and busted and unrequited love and the comedy takes a distant backseat. While I really liked the first volume I found 2 a bit humorless and dull.	2005-10-13
US	47412112	R3BB5EA7355GYM	1591160995	674031700	Maison Ikkoku, Vol. 2	Books	5	1	1	N	N	BEACH OGLER	Well, Yusaku's dream has finally come true! He's gonna get to see his great love Kyoko in a revealing swimsuit as he agrees to take little brat Kentaro to the beach. It's too bad that his rival, tennis coach Mitaka is also along for the ride. But he has one thing on his side! Mitaka is deathly afraid of dogs, including Kyoko's Mr. Soichiro. Maybe Yusaku will get to show his macho side and prove he's the better man? That's if he can endure Mitaka and Kyoto going out on a date. Yusaku himself has his own miniature shojo romance going too, when he meets up with Kozue, a former co-worker, when he's desperate for a date. <br /> <br />Rumiko Takahashi is a master, or should I say mistress, of creating awesome and endearing characters. Her designs are beautiful and her style is very recognizable. The great thing about Maison Ikkoku is that no single element overwhelms you. The comedy, romance, and at times deep emotion all work in harmony with each other. Very well written and funny. Masterpiece.	2005-10-12
US	47412112	R217T2Z1AM166J	158664856X	229698191	Samurai Legend	Books	3	4	4	N	N	ONE-EYED LEGEND	In 17th century Japan the country is still ruled by a Shogunate who has reduced the status of the retired Emperor Gomino to that of a figurehead whose only function is to give legitamacy to the military leader at the head of the government. But the Emperor, in his old age, thirsts for more power and wishes to return Japan to a time when the monarchy was predominant. So he enlists Yashamaro, a loyal and lethal swordsman, to steal the \\"Yagyu Secret Chronicles\\", mysterious documents left to the Yagyu family by a former shogun that could spark a civil war and plunge the land into darkness and despair. The Yagyu are supposed to be the guardians of the Chronicles and must retrieve them even as the Emperor tries to escape his enforced confinement to raise an army of rebels to overthrow the Shogunate! Jubei, a young Yagyu warrior and future samurai legend sets out to stop the rebellion before it starts and to recover the Chronicles, along with his half-brother Rokumaru.  <br /> <br />This was my first experience with historical manga and I wasn't disappointed. The action was easy to follow with clean lines and detailed but uncluttered panels that were like watching smooth film. I felt the characterization could have been handled a little better, especially with Jubei's half-brother whose dialogue mostly consisted of \\"Yes\\", \\"Yes\\", and \\"Yes\\" and \\"Brother\\".  You did really get a feel for the time period reading this and it makes me want to read more works by these manga-ka and explore the genre further.  <br /> <br />	2005-10-12
US	47412112	RJAGZKQB55CVR	034547998X	38429249	Othello, Volume 3	Books	3	1	1	N	N	PERSONALITY WARS	As Yaya's feelings for Moriyama increase, she feels torn between him and her love (infatuation) for Shohei, the lead singer of the now defunct band Juliet. If only she knew that Shohei, sans make-up and entourage is now pursuing her alter ego, Nana! And who is Nana pursuing, you might ask? It seems like the long ago dreams of Yaya, as she tries to muscle in to Moriyama's band, the Black Dogs. Shohei tries to convince her that he wants to manage her career and get her a break into the business, but is he sincere? Maybe you should ask his pet alligator who acts like a woman scorned! And not all of the fans of Moriyama's fans are happy about Nana hogging the stage. Enter Megumi Hano, Black Dog super-fan and Moriyama-stalker who slaps Nana in the face over it and replaces Moe and Seri as Nana's #1 enemy.  <br /> <br />While the first and second volumes of Othello were charming and funny, I'm beginning to wonder where this book can go now. Hopefully, it will develop a bit more than it did here. It seems to be playing awfully close to \\"average\\" manga level. It's still a good book, but it could be better.	2005-10-06
US	47412112	R2NKVYAIR4TQT4	1591822076	671991109	Ragnarok #8	Books	2	0	0	N	N	YOU THINK I'M A CLOWN?	After the epic and city destroying battles of the first 7 volumes, I guess Myung-Jin Lee wanted to take things in another direction. Not only does Volume 8 radically redesign all of the major characters hair and costumes, it also injects a lot more humor, in fact TOO MUCH humor, and even throws in a cliched fan service bathing scene with Fenris and Iris. And Loki's caption bubbles are now done in squares, as if to indicate his lack of humanity? Who knows. And the cap-off rip-off from Inuyasha is that our heroes must collect all of the shards of Ymir's heart before the forces of evil, lest the whole world be remade in their image. So they book flight to Schwarzwaard, to ask a sage how to find the shards. What better way to get there than to board a blimp piloted by walking talking moose? I mean, come on, can we put a cap on the goofiness. And wait till you see the aerial attack of the Gremlins!<br /><br />If this is the new direction and look that the rest of the series is going to take, then you can count me out. You have new characters running about putting everyone in danger, yet having no connection with the plot as of yet. The humor and pitiful attempts at fan service parody fell flat on their face. You just can't go from life and death situations and then in the next panel to super-deformed characters without either undercutting the humor or the drama. Hopefully Volume 9 will return to the quality of the previous books.	2005-10-06
US	47412112	R2F48PNUR755L8	159697141X	812002077	Fighting!! Guidance Volume 1 (v. 1)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	IT'S PAT!	Ghi-Han Shin has just transferred to Poong Rim High and he just wants to blend in with the student body and not get into any trouble. Don't get the impression that he's a wimp or anything though. He's a vicious fighter who got tired of the gang life and now he just wants to be a respectable high school student. We all know that fate is not going to let that happen though, don't we? There's always a gang of bullies who want to pick on the new guy, in this case some toughs led by Young-Woo. That's when Hyun-Ha Ghang steps in. Hyun-Ha is a member of the Guidance Club, which is similar to a Student Council, except in addition to looking out for the student's academic needs, they are also trained in martial arts! Will Hyun-Ha be able to keep Ghi-Han from falling back into his old ways? And what's going to happen when \\"Union 5\\", a super-gang taking over all the high schools, turns its eye on Poong Rim? <br /> <br />Fighting Guidance is a little off the beaten path of Korean Manhwa. I thought it was going to be about a guy and a girl from the cover featuring Hyun-Ha and Ghi-Han. And that's an onrunning joke in the book too. Hyun-Ha looks like a girl and Ghi-Han is always kidding him about his lack of masculinity. Hyun even has what seems to be an unhealthy obsession with Ghi's crotch. At some points I was wondering if I was reading a boy-love manwha. Fortunately, after Hyun pulls Ghi's pants down to see for himself whether he's a girl or a boy, things become more comfortably hetero. In parts this volume was a little funny, and some of the action scenes were handled pretty well, but this title falls plainly into the average category. It does show some promise though.	2005-10-03
US	47412112	R1DCURG1L9KN6D	1591826241	146535313	Psychic Academy, Vol. 4	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WHOSE SIDE ARE YOU ON?	As Ai Shiomi begins his official try at dating Orina, he still faces the fact that his aura is 100% compatible with Mew, and there's no telling where that strange psychic connection will lead him. He loves Orina, but at times, against his will, his mind drifts to Mew. In a page out of the X-Men, a large group of normal humans, called Aura Hunters, launch an all-out assault on the Psychic Academy. They have no hope of beating down the super-powered residents. Their goal is to lose the battle, and play up the images of normal humans being hurt by the students to ferment an anti-Psychic movement! And how is the School President involved with the Aura Hunters? <br /> <br />While Psychic Academy is not going to win any awards for originality, I do find it quite enjoyable, even the shojo elements of Ai's floundering between his love for Orina and Mew. I really want to know who he is finally going to be with. The Class President plotline was a little cliched but the characters really make up for any shortcomings in this manga. Entertaining book!	2005-10-01
US	47412112	R36ILHTW1II7IM	1591160758	855869522	Video Girl Ai, Vol. 2: Mix Down	Books	4	0	0	N	N	YOU'RE NOT A REAL GIRL!	Yota is desperately searching for Ai in the city streets, but he's never going to find her. She has been summoned back to the Gokuruku videostore, in what looks like another dimension, by the man(?) who created her. He threatens to erase her because she's not supposed to fall in love with Yota herself, she's supposed to FIND his true love. She's letting her own feelings get in the way of Yota's happiness because Ai can never live a normal life since she only has three months of life. She is able to convince him to give her one more chance, but she cannot show any personal feelings for Yota. If she does, she might just disappear! And what's the deal with Moemi? She seems to spend an awful lot of time talking to Yota, even though her boyfriend is Takashi. This volume also introduces the incorrigible pervert and Ai-admirer, Takao Sorayama, president of the school art club and son of an important PTA member.  <br /> <br />This volume had more emotional heft than the first volume and was the better for it. It has a lot of shojo elements but more in the male role as Yota can't really decide who he really loves, Moemi or Yota? I guess he wishes he could have both, but in the real world that never works. And is Takashi only dating Moemi to galvanize Yota into taking action with his feelings, hoping he will become jealous or angry at least? Or does Takashi like Moemi himself? There's all kinds of good emotional interplay here between the main characters, with noone really taking a dominant role in the manga. That's not a bad thing. I've even got over the late 80s horrible fashion sense that bothered me in Volume 1. Good book	2005-09-29
US	47412112	R16AFK41UVE3IS	006441034X	458436371	Howl's Moving Castle (World of Howl)	Books	2	14	44	N	N	HOWL IS SLIMY AND MEAN	In the town of Market Chipping in the land of Ingary, Sophie Hatter seems condemned to a boring and uneventful life, being the oldest of 3 sisters. Even her name seems to imprison her into running the family hat shop after her father dies, and her stepmother takes over the destinies of her and her two sisters, Lettie and Martha. While the other two move on to other lives, Sophie sits, working diligently with little reward and probably the future of being an unmarried spinster before her. That is, until the Witch of the Waste comes into her shop, and believing that Sophie has been rude to her, changes the young and pretty Sophie into an 90-something old crone. Not wishing to reveal what has happened to her to Lettie and Martha, she leaves the town and runs smack into the Moving Castle of Howl, a fearsome and supposedly woman-eating wizard! Along with his apprentice Michael, and the fire demon Calcifer, Sophie must learn how to break the spell on herself and also learn how to survive a close encounter with Howl himself.  <br /> <br />I came to this book after seeing and enjoying the anime version of this novel by the great Japanese director Miyazaki. I have to say that the novel suffered in comparison. Frankly, this novel was a little dull and lacked any suspense. The Witch of the Waste especially suffered from a lack of characterization. The motivations of the characters also seemed to lack any sense of urgency. \\"Oh well, I'm an old lady. No rush to change me back\\". \\"I'm enslaved by Howl, no rush to free me.\\" Sophie and Howl also acted like 5 year olds most of the time, being spiteful, hateful, and crude most of the time. I didn't like them. Flat out. Romance was completely dead here and the whole thing just puttered along with mediocre writing until it ended.	2005-09-26
US	47412112	ROJVP5DFZ1NZI	1591169569	569338558	Baron: The Cat Returns	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A CAT'S LIFE	As habitually late high schooler Haru is walking down the street with her friend, she saves a cat from becoming a traffic fatality. Imagine her surprise when the cat stands up on two legs and speaks to her, thanking her for saving his life and that Haru will be repaid for her heroic deed. Unfortunately, her reward comes in the form of lived canned mice being delivered to her house and having catnip winds wafting through the streets. In addition, she learns that the cat she rescued is the prince of the Cat Kingdom, and his father, the Cat King, threatens to kidnap her and make her marry his son. A mysterious voice tells her to seek out the Cat Office for help in escaping this unenviable situation. That's where she'll meet the mysterious Baron, his overweight and crabby cat partner Muta, and the crow named Toto, of all things. They just might be the only help she'll get in this world.  <br /> <br />The art was incredible and reminds one of a high quality Disney film in comic book form. Having seen the anime before I read the manga, I felt the comic form did not do the story justice. There was just so much whimsy and motion that is lost in frozen pictures. But it's still a very nice-looking book. I'll have to read it again when the anime is not so fresh in my mind. This would be a good manga to start someone's interest in manga and anime. Suitable for children and adults of all ages.	2005-09-25
US	47412112	R2TX89OJIDTZW6	1591164419	144373495	Bleach, Vol. 1	Books	4	20	22	N	N	I SEE HOLLOWS	15-year old Ichigo \\"Strawberry\\" Kurosaki has a special ability right out of The Sixth Sense. He can see dead people. He tries to help out the spirits when he can but his homelife is pretty hectic because his father runs the Kurosaki Clinic along with his two little sisters Yuzu and Karin. His life gets even more complicated when a pretty girl dressed in samurai robes and bearing a sword appears in his room! Her name is Rukia and she is a \\"Soul Reaper\\", an agent of the \\"Soul Society\\" sent to destroy \\"Hollows\\", which refers to the spirits of dead people which feed on the souls of the living and the dead. Apparently, Ichigo is like a beacon to the Hollows because his spirit energy is so powerful and one shows up to devour him. In the midst of battle Rukia decides to transfer some of her power to Ichigo but the problem is that ALL of her power goes to him! Will he be skilled enough to save not only himself and Rukia, but also his family? <br /> <br />Bleach was a little too slapstick for me at first, but once it settled down into telling its story, it got quite good. There are some moments that are quite cheesy, but nothing damaging. The art is nice and clean and the characters are charismatic and likeable. It is quite funny but can also have sequences that are touching. Overall, this is a good start but I hope the following volumes continue to build on the plot.	2005-09-24
US	47412112	R2DGQ1SLEMVTSH	1413900844	88842853	Chrono Crusade, Vol. 1	Books	4	2	3	N	N	COME ON CHRONO, LET'S EXORCISE!	The time and place is America in 1924, a period in which the U.S. was just beginning to expand its influence in the world as the old powers began to set themselves up for an even greater war which would see their empires fall. In this period before we entered the Great Depression, there were darker forces in the background: namely demons and the Satanist pawns that served them. That's where the Magdalan Order comes in, an organization of priests and nuns who are trained in combatting and exorcising evil spirits and stopping the plots of the humans who ally with them. Rosette Christopher is one of the best among the Order, except that when she fights demons she tends to not only destroy the demon but also a couple of city blocks around the battle too! She's bumbling and tempermental, but she is committed and brave and she also has a back-up: Chrono. Chrono is a demon whose power is confined in the guise of a young human boy (except for the pointed ears and red eyes), who serves as Rosette's helper and sidekick. And when they get into something that can't be stopped with Rosette's holy bullets, Chrono can use some of her lifeforce to regain his full powers for a short time. The drawback is that each moment he spends in his true form shaves off moments of Rosette's lifespan!  <br /> <br />Chrono Crusade is a little hard to take at first seeing as how the lead heroine is a fussy and child-like nun. If you're sensitive about religious matters, this is probably not the series for you. But it is well done with a lot of humor, action and a tinge of tragedy that the Japanese do so well. The fact that Rosette's life is going to be cut short grounds the manga with a little more gravity than most examples of this genre. Chrono Crusade is also available in anime form, but I prefer the manga, because it is grittier and in the anime the demons look very unthreatening and especially the action sequences are poorly done. The designs of the characters and the story work much better in this form.	2005-09-22
US	47412112	R1XK6WTV16LC8W	1588993205	690551214	Pretty Maniacs Volume 1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE PRESIDENT OF NOTHING	Pretty Maniacs is a sequel to Maniac Road, the 3 volume manga about 3 sisters who take in an otaku named Takezou to remake their struggling electronics store into an otaku paradise. At the end of that series, Takezou was setting off for America to set up a shop there. Pretty Maniacs starts off with his sister, Shinano, taking his place at Maniac Road while she is attending school. She is appointed President of the manga club at the school but is horrified when she realizes she is the president of a club with no members! There is a beauty queen named Otowa who shares her interests but their tastes in anime and manga are so different that they often clash. In a plot right out of Genshiken, the annoying and bossy student body president gives Shinano one month to make the manga club a respectable and productive member of the school or it will be disbanded. But first she has to find members!<br /><br />If you enjoyed Maniac Road, Pretty Maniacs is another winner. While not quite as educational as the first series, it does have more charm and character. The art is attractive and never seems cluttered or confused. It has the clean lines of an anime. It's also very funny and should be read by anyone interested in Japanese sub-culture.<br /><br />I would suggest reading Maniac Road before reading this. Also check out the anime and manga versions of Comic Party and Genshiken, which cover the same ground in different ways.	2005-09-22
US	47412112	R36KN7PPHEYPM4	006000892X	450233410	Meet the Beatles: A Cultural History of the Band That Shook Youth, Gender, and the World	Books	2	19	26	N	N	BEATLES FREE WOMEN FROM BONDAGE	Yes, the Beatles were the greatest rock/pop band the world has ever seen and represented the first great shift in music after Elvis that lasted until Kurt Cobain came on the scene to wipe away the 20 years of decadence that followed their demise. But Steven D. Stark makes some overblown assertions about their importance in world history, culture, and the feminist movement, along with a liberal use of the Beatles Anthology, in this purported scientific and sociological study of the band.  <br /> <br />Stark's history of the Beatles themselves is slipshod and shallow, and features such supporting characters as Brian Epstein, Yoko Ono, and the mother of Pete Best as crucial figures. While they played their own small parts in the Beatles story, Stark loses sight of the fact that the music the four young men made is what it was all about. Here we see John and Paul as the chivalrous knights of all womanhood because of the death of their own mothers when they were teenagers. Stark writes that besides a handful of songs, Beatles songs supported positive images of women and empowered the women's movement during the 1960's. I fail to see how going to a concert and screaming your lungs out in a hormonal rage advanced the cause of females around the globe! Girls just found them attractive. Simple as that. And their music touched a nerve with girls, much as any singer, even today can tap into the feelings of kids at times 10 or 20 years younger than them.  <br /> <br />Stark believes that history itself was changed by the Beatles, which is also a pipe dream. I am hard-pressed to name one event that would have happened differently without the Beatles. Osama Bin Laden would still be crazy, Vietnam would still have happened. Perhaps John Lennon would not have been shot by a crazed fan?  The only effect I think the Beatles have had is to inspire other songwriters and musicians to attain the quality of their work and to see the group as the pinnacle of what fame can bring if you havethe right look and talent. The Beatles have also consoled billions of people around the world with their songs. Yes, if you like music, that soundscape of 20th century music would have been more bleak, but the Beatles as cultural event was not very important compared to the rise of Ancient Greece, the publication of the Bible, or even as much a revolution in culture as Elvis and the arrival of Rock and Roll.  <br /> <br />Stark's woeful attempt to connect the Beatles to gay culture through their asexual makeover by Brian Epstein also lacks a convincing argument. It almost seems as if the writer himself realizes how little is left to be said about the Beatles and his having to riff on his own thoughts in supporting baseless hypotheses. To an avid Beatles fan who has read a lot of books about the group or seen the Anthology collection, there is nothing new here. The addition of fan memories is especially unnecessary. So what if someone \\"thinks they're great\\" or \\"felt liberated\\". The only point that I agree with Stark is that John and Paul never attained the heights of art that they had in their competitive partnership in the Beatles and that music was the poorer for it.	2005-09-22
US	47412112	R35P3QVHXVU3IJ	0345481704	60178609	Genshiken: The Society for the Study of Modern Visual Culture, Volume 2	Books	3	1	5	N	N	SEXSHIKEN	Kitagawa, Vice-President of the Campus Organization Committee doesn't have a lot of power in real life. But she does have control over which clubs are disbanded on campus, and does she ever like to abuse her power! She's set her sights on Genshiken because, in her mind, the club serves no function. Their room is being used for nothing but eating, drinking, playing videogames and talking about anime and manga. Well, I guess she's saying that they're not being productive. But the gang learns that the Genshiken president, yes that creepy guy that never seems to graduate, and seems to appear from secret passages, has some dirt on Kitagawa they can use to blackmail her! Also, in this volume it seems as though Saki Kasukabe is developing a little more tolerance for the otaku, and might even become a member! And there's also a visit to the winter Comic-Fest which turns comical if tragic when Madarame injures his hand in the rain-soaked waiting line. <br /> <br />I like this series but it just seems that the characters in it are a little too obsessed with pornography. Porno animes, porno anime computer games, porno manga, porno amateur manga. I mean to me, at least this is not what anime and manga are truly about. It would be fine if this manga was honest and declared itself a sexual comedy with a superficial layer of manga and anime over it. It just doesn't seem grounded in a love for those mediums. I like this manga ok, it just could've been so much more. <br /> <br />Look at the Comic Party anime and manga for a better take on the subject.	2005-09-19
US	47412112	RK15QNUP19DPO	1413902596	335117895	Cromartie High School, Vol. 3	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I'M THE BADDEST!	There's been a death at Cromartie! The casualty is Mechazawa, but...um, ok, I think I'm the only person that has noticed he's a robot. Anyway, he was taking a corner of an alley too fast on his motorcycle and ended up crashed and in hundreds of pieces. Kamiyama and company try to restore him to his original form but only succeed in attaching him to the motorcycle! Meanwhile, the All-Japan Kingpin Championship gets underway in which toughs from all over Japan compete to be the ultimate Badass. Speaking of kingpins, in America, Takenouchi finds himself the leader of something called \\"The Mafia\\" and finds his number two is a carbon copy of Freddie, except this guy's name is Mercury, plus he can talk! And just wait till you see the idiots of Cromartie start a baseball team!  <br /> <br />Volume 3 was a return to the hilarity of Volume 1 after a weak Volume 2. The punchlines were less contrived and the momentum was maintained throughout the entire book. Great laughs!	2005-09-18
US	47412112	R2WJ46KK4IUZBF	1591827906	203851331	Abenobashi: Magical Shopping Arcade, Vol. 1	Books	3	0	1	N	N	GET BACK TO WHERE YOU ONCE BELONGED	Abenobashi Shopping Arcade in Osaka is undergoing a major facelift. Actually, it's going through more than that, because after 50 years its prosperity is dwindling. Evictions and closings have become commonplace. Childhood friends Sasshi and Arumi's lives are about to change forever. Sasshi's family store has been closed and Arumi's family has also received their eviction notice and she is moving away. Sasshi will lose his most precious friend. Adding to the plot is the fact that 4 omamori (protective charms) were placed in four stores around town, and when the last charm is destroyed, chaos breaks loose! Arumi and Sasshi find themselves swept from one alternative Abenobashi universe to another, from space mecha to dinosaur to shojo romance settings, all peopled with residents of the Abenobashi they know and love. So begins their quest to return to their own time and space!<br /><br />This is pretty much a gag manga with all kinds of references to anime and manga that any fan will enjoy. The humor is pretty toilet, actually, below in the pipes of the toilet, but it's pretty funny. And pretty explicit too. There is nudity, crude sexual innuendo and very suggestive art, but never tilting to the erotic. It's all in the name of humor! The slight problem with this book is that there is very little progression since it's really just an assemblage of jokes. The only thing that brings a sense of honesty to the whole thing is the relationship between Arumi and Sasshi. If you are a fan of the anime version, you will find some new storylines here.	2005-09-17
US	47412112	R2S8KPSDS08RCY	1413900399	235081826	Full Metal Panic! Volume 4 (Full Metal Panic (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	2	12	N	N	FUMOFFU ASSAULT	Sosuke, while not admitting any romantic feelings for Chidori, finds himself disconcerted when Kawa, an old flame of hers from junior high shows up on the scene. Sosuke decides to follow them on a date to an entertainment park to see if Kawa is on the level or just an enemy terrorist trying to get close to Chidori. Things get more dramatic when Capt. Tessa appears at Sosuke's apartment with a prisoner in tow, on the run from A-21, a terrorist organization that has acquired an Arm Slave and needs the prisoner because he can activate the \\"Lambda Driver\\". Did I also mention that the prisoner is slightly psychotic due to mind-altering drugs administered during his training? <br /> <br />This volume of Full Metal Panic was a complete success because it melded comedy and action together effortlessly. The scenes where Sosuke fights some yakuza harrassing Chidori is especially funny as he takes them on wearing a giant hamster costume to hide his identity! There was also a little more romance instead of the usual hitting Sosuke over the head bits. The art is great. Just don't expect any profound character development here.  <br /> <br />Check out the original Full Metal Panic anime and its sequel Fumoffu for more adventures and comedy.	2005-09-14
US	47412112	R399WIPDVD8RSQ	1591824184	544161751	Battle Royale, Vol. 6	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WE FIND AN ALLY?	After getting some medical attention for Noriko, Shuuya and Kawada meet up with Sugimura, the karate expert and Shuuya's good friend. But things don't work out like they think when they find out Sugi might not want to join their group. But they're going to need all the help they can get when they encounter Kazuo, the cold-blooded killer out to win the Program! Meanwhile, Shinji and Sato prepare to put their plan of blowing up the government HQ in the island's school into effect, but Sato is such a bumbling idiot, he might just mess up the whole thing! <br /> <br />As always, Volume 6 of Battle Royale is action-packed, compelling, and sad. There are some great action sequences but sometimes the sentimentality gets in the way. It's like in every scene somebody is filled to bursting with teardrops forming in the corners of their eyes. One improvement is that there are less flashbacks because most of the characters are pretty well established by now. The realistic and grotesque art is a plus and a lot of motion is implied in a motionless context. Great read. I would suggest buying the whole series at one time if you're rich because you'll want to read all the volumes straight through because they are so good!	2005-09-14
US	47412112	R2GWZGJEVQ9SKR	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	JOURNEY INTO KNOWLEDGE	Young fool Bardamu, the protagonist of Journey to the End of the Night, falls in with some marching troops in Paris just for a lark, but to his horror as a gate closes behind him, he realizes he has been drafted into the French army! And this just happens to be at the start of World War I. What is a cowardly young man who doesn't want to kill anyone do? He philosophizes on being cowardly and not wanting to kill anyone! Even as his incompetent superiors (aren't military superiors always incompetent in war?) send him and his fellow soldiers out on doomed missions without adequate intelligence, strategy, troops, or supplies. This seems all toO familiar to modern times. It's up to Bardamu to find an exit from the madness. But while the war sections of this novel are at turns comedic, absurd, bloody, and tragic, we also follow the main character to Africa, New York City, and finally as he tries feebly to start a medical practice in his native France.  <br /> <br />To me, this novel should stand right alongside the Holy Bible, Shakespeare, and the great Greek writers on the bookshelf next to your bed as a survival tool for the 21st century. It could have been written today. The insanity of war, the emptiness of modern life, the fleeting transport of love, all of these topics spoke to me as if Celine is still a living writer much in touch with current American life. The war scenes especially resonate, reflecting a leadership who at times has no clear objective as to why or how to fight a conflict which engulfed multiple countries. Celine is a divine writer, whose sentences are dictated from a higher source, wherever great wisdom comes from. This is a book for the ages!	2005-09-14
US	47412112	R2MDHMXPISTSMM	1591826349	889314184	GetBackers Volume 2 (Getbackers (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WE GOT POWERS TOO!	After returning a good luck statue to their client Kinue, the Get Backers learn that the cat was not the item that she actually wanted. There was a computer disk inside it that is the property of the evil Dr. Kabutogawa, a doctor who specializes in black market organs. He intends to make Ban and Ginji his next donors!Their second mission, given to them by the very strange looking Dr. Ohtaki, an important politician in the city, is to retrieve a stolen box which contains some very valuable objects. If they can get it back, he promises to give them a year's free rent in an apartment complex he owns. That's a pretty sweet deal because our heroes are currently homeless! The problem is that the box has been stolen by a group of super-powered villains named \\"The Transporters\\". They might even be more powerful than Ginji and Ban. And what is Ban's connection to the female member, \\"Lady Poison\\"?  <br /> <br />The jokes and some of the \\"hip\\" slang in this book is pretty bad. It tries too hard to be current with the end result that a month after it comes out, some of the dialogue feels dated. But that aside, the action sequences are pretty well-done and the fact that the Get Backers are taking jobs to survive, to eat and have a roof over their heads, makes them very down-to-earth. You hardly ever see American super-heroes that have to struggle with such problems as homelessness, poverty, and starvation. Good read!	2005-09-12
US	47412112	RJ0AN8EZDBNH9	1591160545	19415888	Maison Ikkoku, Vol. 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THESE PEOPLE DRIVE ME CRAZY	Yusaku is a college student who never seems to do good on his exams. Does he blame himself? No, he blames the apartment house he lives in, named Masion Ikkoku. More to the point, he thinks that his fellow residents are ruining his life! Akemi, the bar-maiden who likes to walk around in her see-through nightie,  becomes infuriated when Mr. Yotsuya, the enigmatic man with no job, is obsessed with her and peeps on her through a hole in Yusaku's room. Mrs. Inchinose's main job seems to be getting drunk and she also likes to join in with her kid son Kentaro in running down Yusaku as a failure and calling him \\"Mr. Flunk-out\\"! He's fed up with all this and decides to move out, but just at that moment in walks the new manager, the beautiful Ms. Kyoko Otonashi, and Yusaku is a complete goner, losing his heart at first sight.  <br /> <br />Maison Ikkoku is a brillant piece of comedy from the creator of Inuyasha, Rumiko Takahashi. The great thing about this series is that it appeals to an older audience. It's treatment of romantic entanglement, slapstick humor, and mature innuendo appeals to men and women readers. Takahashi's main strength here as elsewhere is the creation of appealing characters and stylish design. Never an inauthentic moment. Classic.	2005-09-12
US	47412112	R22VKS15ZCXG90	193151450X	673956562	KODOCHA: Sana's Stage, Volume 1	Books	5	0	0	N	N	I'M THE STAR	6th grader Sana Kurata treats herself as if she is the star of her own TV show. Actually, she IS the star of a show about elementary school kids, and Sana lives a little higher than her classmates, having her own manager, her mom is a famous writer, and she's pretty popular among the girls. The problem at school is with the boys! Their defacto leader, Akito Hayama, or \\"super-jerk\\" as Sana affectionately calls him is destroying class with his antics. Their teacher breaks down everyday crying in frustration. Sana and the others are sick of it, and when Sana learns that Hayama is blackmailing some of the school staff, she sets out to do a little investigation of her own!  <br /> <br />This first volume was really funny. Its surreal humor is really something unique. For example, Sana's mother has a squirrel that lives in her hair, and everytime you see her the squirrel is doing something different, such as running in an exercise wheel! Sana is another in a long line of female characters who exudes overconfidence and is bound to never walk the talk she makes. It's a nice touch when she finds out about Hayama's home life and she tries to help him out even though he's a \\"demon child\\". Great fun for any age. <br /> <br />I would also recommend Azumanga Daioh and UltraManiac, both manga and anime versions.	2005-09-08
US	47412112	R1Z1SILPLCH65L	1591822068	942308041	Ragnarok, Vol. 7	Books	4	1	1	N	N	LAST BATTLES	As Volume 7 opens, Fenris and Iris are still battling against Bijou, a powerful witch trying to steal Ymir's Heart, and losing! Meanwhile, Chaos and Loki are facing off against Himmelmez and her undead hordes aboard her floating fortress. She has enlisted the aid of Matthew, the dead best friend of Chaos from Fayon, who is now being controlled by her sorcery. Will Chaos be able to destroy his already dead friend, or will Himmelmez win the battle? And where does Sara Irine's loyalties lie? Does she have her own agenda which will disrupt the plans of all involved?  <br /> <br />Myung-Jin Lee continues his epic action fantasy series with cluttered art and strong plot which might overwhelm or confuse at times. You'll never be bored reading Ragnarok. Good series.	2005-09-05
US	47412112	RBEMI2TW8D4MO	1591826233	440364136	Psychic Academy, Vol. 3	Books	5	0	0	N	N	CRAZY LITTLE THING	As Ai tries his best to do good in school, the mysterious girl from Volume 2, FaFa (who happens to share a body with her brother, Ren) kidnaps Ai to have some fun on the town. While his friends desperately search for him, they learn the truth about FaFa. She has no powers of her own, instead serving as a conduit for others psychic powers, almost like Rogue from the X-men, she absorbs psychic energy from others, which also allows her to control the minds of others. The problem is that she has no control over her powers and will very likely hurt innocent people! With her on the streets, it also gives impetus to a growing group of normal humans who see psychics as a danger. Calling themselves \\"aura hunters\\", they seek to eliminate that threat! Add to this Ai's continuing conflict over who he likes better, Sahra or Mew! <br /> <br />What a good series not meant to be taken seriously! It's more like the X-Men without all the convoluted baggage and history. The characters are great and the romance intriguing. With a bit of fan service thrown in too. Where else can you see a talking pink rabbit with a Bronx accent, I ask you? Good book.  <br /> <br />	2005-09-04
US	47412112	R3I5HCTWIIZ5HB	0345479483	3059817	Othello, Volume 2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	DON'T TREAD ON ME	A new year is starting at YaYa's school and because you stick with your homeroom class all day, YaYa is hoping to be in class with Moriyama, the aspiring rockstar that she cares about more and more. On the other hand, she will be in abject misery if she has to be stuck with Moe and Seri, the two mean bullies who always pick on her, for the whole year! It's too bad that only one of these wishes comes true, because along with Moriyama, she finds out that Noe and Seri are in her class. After they push her into a pond, she decides not to go to school anymore. That is, until her alternative personality takes charge, and NaNa begins her revenge! As she begins to suspect that her memory loss is something more than simple forgetfulness, we begin to wonder exactly who is the real YaYa.  <br /> <br />While the plot of this manga seems a little contrived, I really enjoyed it. Even Shakespeare used mistaken identity in his plays and the Jekyll and Hyde motif echoes through eternity. Ikezawa does a good job of making the situations funny and the romance touching without taking sap from a tree. And NaNa's revenge methods are humorous without being vindictive. The art and dialogue are also good. Nice manga.	2005-09-04
US	47412112	R2IQF3WDBYHFZA	0345481690	390747790	Genshiken: The Society for the Study of Modern Visual Culture, Volume 1	Books	4	4	4	N	N	NO LONELY OTAKU	Kanji Sasahara is a college freshman and as he browses the school club fair, he's trying to decide which club he wants to join. Even though he's a little ashamed of it, he's really a closet otaku. Also at the fair is Saki Kasukabe, who meets childhood friend Makoto Kousaka. Saki is instantly lusting after Makoto but is horrified when she finds out that he is now an anime and manga freak! Sasahara and Mokoto end up joining Genshiken:The Society for the Study of Modern Visual Culture, a club that focuses on manga, anime, and computer games. Saki is reluctantly drawn into their circle because she wants to bust a move on Makoto. It's up to the Genshiken club to bring Sasahara out of his shell and into the world of the otaku! <br /> <br />Genshiken is a great book about the love of Japanese visual culture and it's great to see your own interests reflected in the characters passion. While it is a comedy, its humor is usually subtle and more realistic. The only thing that I didn't like is that the characters seem overly obsessed with porno, whether it be fan manga or computer sims. I would have rather seen a more healthy interest in all kinds of anime and manga than just focusing on that narrow field of interest. But it is cool to see the characters roaming the streets of Tokyo or going to doujinshi conventions. Still a great read.  <br /> <br />I would also recommend the anime version of this manga. Also, in a more humorous vein, Comic Party (the manga and anime) covers the same ground. You should also check out Otaku No Video.	2005-09-01
US	47412112	R3VPYDKW8EKOE9	1591169178	604941131	Ultra Maniac Vol 1	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I'M JUST TRYING TO HELP!	Ayu Tateishi is the star tennis player and one of the most popular girls at her junior high in Japan and she has a crush on Tetsushi Kaji, the star baseball player who is one of the most popular guys. Sounds like a match made in heaven, right? Well, as usual in shojo, Ayu is having problems working up the courage to tell Kaji about her feelings. Enter new student Nina Sakura, who seems to be overly needy and looking for a friend. She's a little weird and Ayu begins to think that she might be some kind of psychotic stalker. Imagine her surprise when she finds out Nina is a witch from the Magic Kingdom who flunked out of her school because she was inept at casting spells. But that's not going to stop Nina, as she transforms Ayu into a boy to play a match against the boy's tennis team for court rights. Her pitiful skills also do not stop Nina from trying all kinds of wacky tricks to make Kaji fall in love with Nina!  <br /> <br />Ultra Maniac is a cute, harmless, and very funny manga! It entirely skirted the dangerous territory of sappiness. The humor is good-natured, playing off of Nina's gullibility and dedication for doing good without belittling her. You'll most likely find yourself laughing aloud as you read this book. This would be a good starting book for new manga readers. I would also recommend the anime version Ultra Maniac.	2005-09-01
US	47412112	R30C9GK9BT22PS	193151478X	455407118	Ragnarok, Vol. 6: Midnight's Masters	Books	4	0	0	N	N	ALL OR NOTHING	The city of Prontera continues to be attacked by the flying fortress of Himmelmez, the queen of the valkyries, and servant of Freya. Her goal is to seize the Heart of Ymir, which will allow her to reshape Midgard however she wishes! Chaos and Loki team up to fight the legions of undead creatures she has awakened from death, but their battle is pointless if they cannot reach Himmelmez herself. Meanwhile, Fenris and Iris are engaged in a life or death struggle to keep the Heart from being taken by Bijou, a powerful witch who seems to have been sewn together from corpses.<br /><br />Ragnarok is a fast moving comic from Korea that never lets go of the action, even though Lee's art is at times hard to follow. He is inventive and a master of evolving plot. All of the characters seem real, even the evildoers. Even though this is Volume 6, you still feel as though there is a whole universe out there to explore in later installments. Good book!<br /><br />I would also recommend the anime Twelve Kingdoms, Escaflowne, and there's even an online Ragnarok game that allows you to further explore the world that we see in the manwha.	2005-09-01
US	47412112	R3GHYHX0F8I3X9	159116074X	855869522	Video Girl Ai, Vol. 1: Preproduction	Books	3	1	4	N	N	VIDEO GIRL ON DEMAND	You've probably encountered some real losers in manga you've read but I have to admit that 16-year old Yota Moteuchi takes the cake. He's so socially inept with girls that even his best friend Takashi calls him \\"Dateless\\"! He's in love with his classmate Moemi, but figures it's pretty pointless to voice his feelings to her. On top of that, Moemi actually has a crush on his best friend! In a fit of depression, Yota enters a videostore and rents what he believes to be a porno featuring a cute girl named Ai Amano. When he plays it in his VCR, incredibly, Ai comes out of the TV into the real world and says that she has come to make his life better, as long as he keeps a \\"pure heart\\". Don't get this confused with \\"My Goddess\\". Ai is no idealized female slave. She has a dirty mouth, she's as likely to hit Yota as to hug him, and she will only live for 3 months!  <br /> <br />I didn't think I'd like this manga at first, what with all the dated 1980's style that it has. But it began to grow on me and I became involved with the relationships and especially the longings of Yota. Ai also grew on me even though she spends too much time acting like a tomboy. I'll try reading the second volume to see if it gets any better.	2005-09-01
US	47412112	R35SOOB9GQ3O0W	1595323716	380527937	Ai Yori Aoshi, Vol. 8	Books	3	1	4	N	N	THE HOUSE GETS BIGGER BY ONE	As sexual tensions increase between Aoi and Kaoru, their emotional intimacy does likewise. Kaoru finally opens up to her about his mother and the fact that he no longer knows whether his memories of her are reality or idealism. Kaoru's upcoming graduate school entrance exam is raising the anxiety level in the household, and all the girls seem to have their own special formula to give him good luck. Chika, Taeko's spunky cousin, shows up on the doorstep of the mansion and declares that she's moving in!  <br /> <br />Ai Yori Aoshi is not a book to look for plot in. As I'm reading Volume 8 I sometimes question whether or not to continue the series. If it had outstanding characters, it would make up for the lack of events. I guess the reason why I keep reading is just the \\"mood\\" of the work. A mood which you could probably define as \\"sweetness and light\\". It's a love story and so it's more concerned with emotions and the displays of affection than leading the characters to revelations about the universe. But the lack of story progression in the past several volumes has led to a very repetitive manga. One that is still worth reading, at least, until you tire of it.  <br /> <br />I would also recommend the manga Aria, another manga more concerned with mood than storytelling.	2005-08-29
US	47412112	R3A1344ZQ2RCSB	1569319618	135974298	Inuyasha, Volume 4	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I THINK I'M GOING BALD	Volume 4 of Inuyasha features a  battle between Inuyasha and the Thunder Brothers, Hiten and Manten, two demons whose power has multiplied due to the Shikon Jewel shards in their possession. Kagome has been kidnapped and is in danger of being boiled alive and used for hair tonic to treat Manten's practically bald scalp (He has like two hairs and thinks that if he had a full head of hair he would be a ladies man like his brother). It's up to Kagome and the little fox spirit Shippo to rescue her. Then Kagome must deal with a vengeful ghost child in the modern world, intent on taking the lives of her family. I will call her \\"mini-grudge\\"!  <br /> <br />The art is great as usual, and the battle scenes never become boring or repetitive as in some other manga. Probably because you like the characters so much that the fights are full of drama. There's also an emotional facet to Inuyasha that makes it unique, whether it's the death and orphanage of Shippo or the reasons why the little girl ghost is trying to kill her brother. And throw in a little romance while you're at it. Great read.	2005-08-28
US	47412112	R28GQ5195O50GV	1595324674	26607083	Planetes, Vol. 4: Part 2	Books	4	2	3	N	N	ARRIVAL AT JUPITER	This last installment of Planetes sets Hachimaki, who I had thought was the main character of the series, up as more of a backstory, much as in Part I. The most important part of this volume concerns the character of Fee as she comes to terms with her lack of parenting skills when it comes to her young son. Her character is further fleshed out as she remembers events from her childhood about an uncle who was falsely accused in the disappearance of a little girl simply because of his odd character. Werner Locksmith, the creator of the Van Braun ship is already moving on to other projects, already trying to recruit the brighest minds to begin work on a Saturn expedition. And while all this is going on, Hachimaki and crew finally reach Jupiter, but who is going to write the speech that needs to be delivered back to Earth, a speech that will inspire everyone to continue exploring the stars? Why Hachi or course!  <br /> <br />Part II of Volume 4 made up for the immaturity of execution and plot in Part I. The story of Fee's uncle was touching, even though it reminded me of The Green Mile and Man Without A Face at times. We really got down into the belly of Fee's character and it was a great experience. It did seem a tad unrealistic that Tanabe was going to wait 7 years for Hachi to make it back. I doubt either of them will be the same people after that length of time. I thought that too little time was spent on the Jupiter mission and that Planetes needs more volumes to fully tell the story. I do feel that this series was a step above most manga in terms of plot, character, art, and depth. You should check it out.	2005-08-22
US	47412112	R3O5A8QD8FIKY	1931514771	96143032	Ragnarok, Vol. 5: Twilight of Terror	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SHE'S GOT THE WHOLE WORLD IN HER HAND!	As Volume 5 opens Chaos, Fenris, and Iris are being held prisoner in the dungeons of Prontera, wrongfully accused of damaging the city. Ironic, because our heroes have just saved it from the bloodthirsty sword of Skurai! But there are bigger forces at work here. Freya and her legion of undead monsters have come to Prontera to take one of the shards of Ymir's heart, the fragments of which were used to create the realm of Midgard. The person that possesses all the shards will hold the world in their hand, literally and figuratively! Freya has Sara Irine and the Necromancer Himmelmez, but Loki might just join the side of our heroes! <br /> <br />Once again, epic world-building made reality in Volume 5! There's really never a dull moment in Ragnarok. The characters are rich and varied and the plot is complex but simple. I think some of the character and monster designs could have been done a little better but those are minor complaints. On the whole, a noble attempt to construct a fantasy adventure.	2005-08-22
US	47412112	R3LNLIMNDWXWZ0	1591826225	97487648	Psychic Academy, Vol. 2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THERE ARE HATERS AT THIS SCHOOL!	Well, it's time for final exams at Psychic Academy and we're not talking about a test with pen and paper. The class is divided up into three-person teams to search for a 500-year old holy tree in the forest surrounding a sacred temple. Ai, Orina, and Kyaru begin searching but are interrupted by some of their enemies. Tanja, the bully from Class A who has a hankering to defeat Ai, teams up with an equally dastardly girl named Purse, who wants to stick it to Mew. What starts out as a simple ego-trip fight might just lead to someone's death. And then, to make matters worse, Ren, the school's street thug, is arriving back at school after a suspension, and he too wants to knock Ai down a peg or two.  <br /> <br />Ok, Psychic Academy is not going to win any prizes for originality. It comes off as a fan serviced Harry Potter for a more mature audience. Like Rowling writing for 17 or 18 year olds. But it's still interesting and the art and characters are first-rate. The tangled beginnings of a love triangle are handled very tenderly and the humor almost always works.  <br />	2005-08-22
US	47412112	R3QVESJUU8OBRB	158899015X	986756193	Maniac Road #3	Books	4	1	1	N	N	TAKEZOU'S FAMILY REUNION	Haruna wins a raffle contest at a store for one night and two days at a beach resort in Izu so the gang is off for a little fan service and fun in the sun. But what is that giant black fin cutting through the water? Is this a scene from Jaws? It's up to Takezou and company to find out what exactly is cruising in the depths beneath their feet. Takezou's sister, Shinano, a fellow otaku, and his brother, whose mission it is to bring Takezou home, arrive at Maniac Road! And then a fire at the store might just bring all their dreams burning down.  <br /> <br />This final volume of Maniac Road has a little more drama, which isn't much, than the other volumes. We get glimpses of a romance between Aoba and Takezou, and also hints of Takezou's dark family secret. Volume 3 is very well written and seems a little more about plot than conveying the author's primary otaku interests. And it's still pretty funny, in a respectable way. Good series.	2005-08-22
US	47412112	RHFPRS4740I0J	1591823188	53625456	Battle Royale, Vol. 5	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WE'RE NOT ALONE.....OR ARE WE?	In the aftermath of their failed plan to hack into the Program's computer system, we learn through flashback the origin of Shinji and Yutaka's odd couple friendship. Meanwhile, Shuuya and Noriko continue to try to convince Shogo Kawada that it's worth his while to help them find other allies in the surviving members of their homeroom, despite the danger. And then there's the wholesome tale of Sho Tsukioka, the drag-queen hustler and blackmailer who is on the trail of the Program's most dangerous player, Kazuo.  <br /> <br />Battle Royale continues the tale of heartrending tragedy and death and hope that started in Volume 1. While the story of Tsukioka was a little too hard to take due to its lewdness, I don't see anything wrong with a little depravity here and there. Royale succeeds admirably at creating suspense and empathy for the main characters. Beneath all the murder, there is a little glimmer of hope in that people like Shuyaa still have faith that some of his fellow classmates do not want to be a part of this madness.	2005-08-21
US	47412112	R20E7IGXTOI9Q5	1591826330	767276630	Getbackers, Book 1	Books	3	0	1	N	N	HOMELESS SUPERHEROES	Ginji Amano and Ban Mido both quit their jobs and are living on the streets homeless and starving. Half the time they have to really scrounge to buy even a can of soda from a vending machine. They sell their services as GetBackers, people that retreive lost things. It's really not that glamorous of a job. The two boys lower themselves to retreiving a Final Fantasy videogame from some bullies, for instance, not realizing that the kid will have a big brother built like a Mack truck! Things get a little more dramatic when Ginji and Ban agree to find the daughter of an old man down on his luck. Unfortunately, the daughter is the mistress of a yakuza boss! They won't be totally defenseless since they have superpowers. Ginji is the equivalent of a Japanese Electro, able to manipulate electricity and use it as an offensive weapon. Ban can create illusions in the mind of others, so realistic that the victim cannot tell that the images are unreal, which can come in handy when someone is trying to kill you.  <br /> <br />The fact Ginji and Ban live such a hard life on the streets really made the characters have an emotional impact. You don't really see to many homeless superheroes in American comics!  <br />While their first mission seems trivial, some of the later ones are very meaningful, for example finding the lost daughter just so her father can see her one last time before he dies. The art, while quite good, seemed too cluttered at times, and the way that Rando draws the shadow from a character's nose on their face looks like everyone has a giant mole. Also, the two friends sometimes talk in a jarring form of American slang which seems a little inauthentic at times. But this series seems to have promise, so maybe in Volume 2 it will rise to new heights.	2005-08-11
US	47412112	R21PV95XFSWQJA	156931960X	189638638	Inuyasha, Vol. 3	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I'LL BE SAFE IN MY OWN TIME....RIGHT?	As Inuyasha and Kagome search for the Shikon Jewel shards, they come across a line of women being taken to a local lord and overhear that this lord has been rumored to have been possessed by a demon. What also peeks their interest is that the girls that go to him are never seen again! A clumsy would-be hero named Nobunaga teams up with Inuyasha and Kagome to rescue a princess from this possessed man. Kagome has to return for entrance exams in her own time and thinks that she doesn't have to worry about demons in 90's Japan, but a human devouring \\"Mask of Flesh\\" comes seeking the shards, leaving headless bodies in its wake. We are also introduced to Shippu, the cute fox demon who wants the jewel shards to avenge his father who was killed by two demon brothers called the Thunder Brothers who are also seeking the pieces of the sacred jewel.  <br /> <br />The manga version of Inuyasha is a little bloodier and more mature than the anime and that is a good thing. To me, this version is just as entertaining as the animated take. The horror is scary, the jokes are funny, and the adventure, heroism, and romance all feel authentic. Rumiko's fine art and warm storytelling talent make this volume another winner!	2005-08-11
US	47412112	R2AFTS0VMZMMZ9	1595322086	323516642	Planetes: Volume 4: Part 1	Books	3	0	3	N	N	COLONEL SANDERS MANIPULATES SPACE	Volume 4 of Planetes has been divided into two parts for some reason. Perhaps in order to bring characters that were once mainly in the background of Hachi's quest to go to Jupiter. Strangely enough, he is absent from this volume except in flashbacks. After a US transport is destroyed by an orbital mine controlled by the Republic Country, factions in both governments are itching to go to war. The problem is that any war conducted in space risks Kessler's Syndrome, in which so much debris accumulates in Earth's atmosphere that leaving the atmosphere becomes an impossible task. With the background of impending war, the story focuses mainly on Fee, and the decisions she makes on whether to intervene in the conflict or not. Along the way, her and Tanabe make friends with a weirdo named Baron who sports an Elvis pompadour and claims that he is an alien observer. In a more touching storyline, Dr. Locksmith, the designer of the Von Braun Jupiter exploration ship, meets with the loved ones of the scientists that died in the development of his dream. And in a homage to Kentucky Fried Chicken, a US Army Space Intelligence Officer named Col. Sanders tries to convince Fee to take his side against the coming space conflict. <br /> <br />The writing in the first part of Volume 4 seemed a little lacking in the maturity department, especially in the scenes where Fee is kicked in the butt by her young son and we see just how pitiful her home life is. I do not know of any parent that would allow their kid to kick them and not respond. Of course it's all a message about rebelling against the system and all that but I just didn't get it. The Baron storyline tried but failed to achieve humorous results. And what is the whole Col. Sanders thing? It was just weird. Again, the pages about Dr. Locksmith were well done but did not make up for the juvenalia of the others.	2005-08-10
US	47412112	R3QB1F6JH6WQYA	0345479130	263230518	Othello 1 (Othello (Del Rey))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	YOU DON'T REALLY KNOW ME	YaYa Higuchi, a timid and shy 16 year old high schooler doesn't really have any friends. The only people that would sort of qualify are Seri and Moe. But they treat her like dirt, mocking her behind her back and in front of her face. Her clothes aren't trendy enough, she's not pretty enough, fix us lunches, give us your concert tickets: these are examples of how the two sadistic girls treat her. Any normal person would cut ties with them, but YaYa doesn't want to be alone and I guess she thinks bad company is better than no company. And there's also Moriyama, a guy she sorta likes, but he makes fun of her too, or is it that he wants her to respect herself more? Things begin to change when YaYa receives a \\"post capsule\\", which is like a time capsule, where you write yourself a message and the post office delivers it to you years after. In this letter the 7-year-old YaYa said her dream was to be a rockstar! There's also a compact from the \\"Magical Girl Run-Run\\" show about a magical girl. Later on when a gang of boys try to take advantage of YaYa, Moe, and Seri at a Karaoke Box, the other side of YaYa's personality asserts itself in the form of NaNa, the outgoing fighter who doesn't take anything from anyone.  <br /> <br />Othello is a comedy with very dramatic underpinnings. The fact that someone can surpress their true self so much that your personality has to split in order for you to be complete is pretty sad. It would be nice if everyone had the power to be their own person, but that doesn't always happen, especially in high school. NaNa's bits were very funny as she tries to foil the plans of the deceptive haters Moe and Seri and there is the makings of a love story between YaYa and Moriyama that seems interesting. Othello is a comedy that also examines loneliness, failed dreams, and peer pressure. But there's a nice dose of hope, love, and sympathy dashed in there too.	2005-08-04
US	47412112	R3HCY5VU5NZIKF	1931514763	947065846	Ragnarok, Vol. 4: Dawn of Destruction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	THE WRONG SUSPECT	Told by his mother Frigg to search for the one who is \\"human but not human\\", Chaos, Fenris, and Iris arrive in the capital of Prontera, with no idea who they are seeking. After Skurai kills everyone at the assassins guild with the help of Odin's Beholders, a frame-up is perpetrated, making Loki think that Chaos has killed the order that keeps Midgard in balance. Swearing revenge, Loki sets out to kill Chaos, and Skurai is not far behind in seeking out a clash that will surely entail powerful blood for his cursed sword.  <br /> <br />Ragnarok brings a lot of action to the table, but along with it, the characters and plot are engaging enough to provide a good entertainment for fantasy fans. While this series seems to borrow ideas from other works, whether it be Asgardian legends or Elric, or Dungeons and Dragons, it works. Lee's action sequences could be done much better because he uses so many lines to convey motion that it usually obscures the action, making you have to guess what happened sometimes. But all together this is an above average comic for readers that enjoy action and epic fantasy storylines.	2005-08-03
US	47412112	R1TROO8ZWLDN8L	159182317X	750352650	Battle Royale, Vol. 4	Books	5	2	2	N	N	IS THERE A DOCTOR ON THE ISLAND?	As Sugimura desperately tries to locate her, Takako has her hands full trying to fight off the lunatic Kuzushi Niida, a boy whose aim is \\"blood and boo-tay!\\". Will he be in time? Shuuya and Kawada also have a problem when Noriko passes out from fever, and the two must decide whether they can get her to an abandoned infirmary. There's also another nut named Minami wandering the island, off her rocker and talking to her favorite pop idol. After an abortive attempt to hack into the Program computer systems, Mimura moves on to Plan B.  <br /> <br />The body count and brutality of Volume 4 is a little less than previous entries. I guess they had to get rid of all the bit players and establish the shock value before. Now, it seems like Battle Royale is settling down to telling the stories of the survivors. Over half the class is now dead. So as the characters dwindle, I assume the stories will get more and more personal...and painful. There is a real sense of danger, especially in what I would call the \\"live or die\\" panels. It seems like every character has a moment where they have a realization about their life, or their future, or some truth is revealed and that moment is drawn frozen in time, and on the next page they either die or they don't. So it creates a lot of suspense...or cheap manipulation of the reader. While the art is generally well done, when chracters are shown in childhood flashbacks, they seem to have oversized adult heads on child bodies, creating a hobbit image. But I really don't have any complaints about this series. The only thing that bugs me is that isn't this being televised as it's happening? So, shouldn't any \\"secret plans\\" the group have be doomed to failure? The kids seem to act surprised when they find out they're bugged but haven't they all seen the Program on TV the past couple of seasons?	2005-08-02
US	47412112	REHYYIC5CLMTT	1588990125	986756193	Maniac Road #1	Books	3	3	4	N	N	LET ME EDUCATE YOU IN OTAKUDOM	After failing to acquire the \\"Special Limited Edition P Hyoro Meeko Wars III\\" fantasy love simulation in the Akihabara section of Tokyo, the otaku capital of Japan, Takezou Muto falls down on the street in a fetal ball, prepare to end his life. Well, not seriously, but he is an \\"otaku\\", after all. Three sisters find him laying there in front of their struggling electronics store and one of them actually mistakes him for a pile of garbage! Realizing her mistake after she field goal kicks him into the refuse bin, the girls take him in. They tell him that their father died 3 years ago, leaving a ton of medical bills behind and the care of the store to them. They haven't been able to make ends meet and the collectors have come knocking. The day is saved when Takezou stumbles realizes that their father was a famous model kit builder whose work is prized by otaku in the know and finds a goldmine of his stuff in a store closet! Haruna, the oldest motherly sister, recognizes Takezou's potential and asks him to turn their electronics store into an otaku Mecca. Isuzu, the youngest one, gets excited because she's an otaku too, while Aoba, the high-schooler sister, hates everything about the whole scene because she has already stereotyped in her mind the kind of people that are interested in such things!  <br /> <br />While this book is not as drop-dead funny as Cromartie High, it is quite humorous in its own way. You get the sense that the author is trying to educate you in otaku passions, and that's not a bad thing. For example, I never knew there was such art in building battleship models. Another funny part is when they have air rifle battles out in the woods and you have all these guys modifying their guns,(battery-powered, solid wood stocks,etc.)This first volume kinda hits on all the main topics of the Japanese subculture, including cosplay, military, anime, and manga. It's worth reading for the humor and the interesting facts you learn.  <br /> <br />I would also recommend the following dvds: Otaku No Video and Comic Party (also a manga).	2005-07-30
US	47412112	R2UI0KUOLYD7G8	0553587501	894969734	Hammered	Books	1	22	38	N	N	CUPCAKES AND CYBORGS	In 2062, the United States is no longer the biggest superpower on the block, thanks to a civil war in which Christian Fascists have taken over our nation. That leaves China and Canada as the supreme states! Yes, you read that right, CANADA has taken over the top spot from America. No slight on the Canucks, but this supposition turns this from science fiction into fantasy.<br /><br />Jenny Casey, the heroine of the story, is bordering on senior citizenship, and in constant pain from an outdated cybernetic arm she received in a crash back when she was in the Canadian Special Forces. She lives in the slums of Hartford, Connecticut, trying to live a normal life as a mechanic, and being chums with the neighborhood ganglord, the pleasant Razorface, who is characterized as a pretty nice guy except that he kills people. Anyway, one of his people ends up dead from an overdose of Hammer, a drug usually reserved for the military. Jenny wants to live and die in peace but one of her old superiors wants to use her in an experiment and a cop ends up dead, and there is an AI roaming loose on the internet waves etc, etc, etc..... I'll spare you the details. Let's just cut to the chase.<br /><br />This book was awful. It was average up to a point, but then came the turning point of the whole novel. I'm sorry to say that this book contains one of the sorriest, out-of-place, bumbling, and infantile sex scenes that I have ever read in my life. I mean with phrases like \\"..tasting myself on his mouth like butterscotch\\" or \\"present as an oak tree\\". Geez. It's horrible. And then there's the annoying use of French in the book. Ok, they're Canadians, but I felt the untranslated dialogue was pointless. I would expect it in Magic Mountain by Thomas Mann, but come on! Another brillant use of metaphor the author uses is when Jenny feels as if \\"some part of me has been scraped out with a rubber spatula, the way you scrape the bowl out when you make cupcakes.\\"  There are countless other gems waiting for you in this book. The writing destroyed any hopes of the plot of the book succeeding. On top of all this, Hammered didn't even read like a sci-fi novel. It felt more like a television cop procedural drama. No sense of wonder and a vague feeling that it was trying to duplicate the feel of BladeRunner. Avoid this book at all costs. I feel insulted by this book simply because I wasted my time reading it.aiting for you in this book. The writing destroyed any hopes of the plot of the book succeeding. On top of all this, Hammered didn't even read like a sci-fi novel. It felt more like a television cop procedural drama. No sense of wonder and a vague feeling that it was trying to duplicate the feel of BladeRunner. Avoid this book at all costs. I feel insulted by this book simply because I wasted my time reading it.	2005-07-28
US	47412112	R1TA21M0QTIFP7	1591826217	727715606	Psychic Academy, Vol 1	Books	4	3	4	N	N	I DON'T WANT TO GO TO SCHOOL!	In the world of Psychic Academy, psychic powers in the population have been on the rise. And it's a good thing too because the forces of evil have also been increasing. The most gifted of these psychics, Zero, defeated the \\"Dark Overlord\\" and is now teaching at the Psychic Academy, a school for adolescents with psychic gifts. Most of the time, these powers show up in the first years of life, but for Zero's brother, Ai, he has just shown potential before entering high school, and has been dragged out of his everyday life. He doesn't want to go because he believes that he has no powers, and plus how can he ever live up to the shadow of his famous brother? One good thing is that his childhhood friend that has a crush on him, Orina, is also attending the Academy. He also picks up a pink rabbit named Master Boo, whose voice only he can hear, who guides him on his rocky way of discovering his abilities. Another friend that he makes is Mew, a girl with attitude and beauty who supposedly has a soul 100% compatible with Ai!  While most of the Academy looks in awe at Ai because he is Zero's brother, there are some at the school who look on him with complete hostility and might even want to hurt him! It's up to Ai to prove that he belongs there, to others and to himself. <br /> <br />Psychic Academy reminds one of the Harry Potter novels in that a young boy is sent to a school to work on abilities he never knew he had up till this point. But beyond those similarities, this manga carves its own niche. Katsu Aki's storytelling ability is very clear and easy to follow, even during the action sequences. There is not a lot of clutter in the art. The characters are interesting and make up a little for the cliched plot. There's also a lot of humor here, especially from Master Boo, the rabbit.	2005-07-26
US	47412112	RAFVAINLL3SE8	1931514755	220243427	Ragnarok: Night of Blood, Vol. 3	Books	4	0	0	N	N	AFTERMATH	At the end of Volume 2, all of the main characters of Ragnarok were involved in a battle royale in the city of Fayon, which ended when Chaos unconsciously summoned the dragon Nidhogg. Chaos and his friends wake up far from the city, with the understanding that they are the only survivors of Fayon. Chaos receives a visitation from the spirit of his dead mother, the goddess Frigg, telling him to find \\"the one who is both human...and not!\\" if he wants to save the world. Meanwhile, Loki and his team of Guild Assassins battle against a king who wants to bring an evil demon back into the world, even at the cost of innocent children. Unknown to Loki, Skurai has been transported by Odin's Beholders to the home of the Guild, to let his blade, Talatsu, take its fill of blood.  <br /> <br />While the action gets a little too cluttered at times, the cast of characters more than makes up for that. These are real people having to make choices and paying for past misdeeds. Great read.  <br />One of the best in the action genre, without sacrificing seriousness and character.	2005-07-24
US	47412112	R18WWQEID7LLKQ	1591823161	53625456	Battle Royale, Vol. 3	Books	4	1	1	N	N	LET'S GET IT ON	As Shuuya, Noriko, and Kawada try to decide on their next move, Shinji Mimura has already made his. He's been able to scrounge together some resources from the abandoned houses on the island, including a laptop, and has hooked up with the rat-looking Yutaka. His plan is to disrupt the Program computer systems and disable the exploding collars that all the participants are wearing. It seems Sugimura, the martial artist, is desperately combing the island, not looking for victims, but for a girl he cares about. Then there's the lovely couple of Yoji and Yoshimi, a couple who might have to make a life or death decision about their relationship. To top everything off we have an extremely graphic side tale about the sluttish vixen Mitsuko, a girl that would make Lizzy Borden look like a pious saint.  <br /> <br />The great characterization continues in Volume 3 but the formula is showing its first signs of weakness. It's starting to come down to 1.Introduce character 2.Show flashback 3.Character lives or dies. The whole scene where two people look at each other and you wait anxiously to find out whether they are playing the game is getting old too. There are some great plot twists and the character backstories on the whole are well done. The insertion of the side story at the end about Mitsuko, dubbed \\"soon-to-be-infamous\\" by the book jacket wreaks of high camp and comedic exploitation. The sex scenes are purposely grotesque in order to cover up what is actually happening in them. Still, overall this series is great. Probably needs to tinker with its formulaic storytelling in order to keep my interest for future volumes though.	2005-07-20
US	47412112	R1D0RS9UWO0X6O	1931514747	34856361	Ragnarok # 2	Books	4	1	1	N	N	fAYON IS THE PLACE TO BE	In volume 2 of Ragnarok, all of the characters introduced in the first volume come into conflict in the city of Fayon, ruled over by Iris Irine's father. Shortly after returning from hunting face worms, and with Lidia \\"Expert Treasure Hunter\\" in tow, our heroes are faced with an awful attack. Sara Irine the valkyrie, has come to Fayon seeking Balder, accompanied by a contingent of gigantic frost giants, has appeared and has vowed to lay waste to the city. Besides finding Balder, she has her own agenda to take revenge on the king, who reveals a unknown secret to Iris. Meanwhile, Fenris Fenrir has shown up, babbling to a flabbergasted Chaos that he is the god Balder reincarnated. And Skurai, the cursed prosecutor has also come to the city, goaded on by Odin's observers who promised that the blood that will lift his curse will be found there. As this battle begins to rage, in another city, the assassin Loki leads a band of his comrades in an effort against the forces of a king who is involved in the disappearance of hundreds, if not thousands, of children.  <br /> <br />This second volume of Ragnarok was heavy on the action. What I like about it is the plentiful variety of characters. This makes its fantasy element really shine. They're really only a bit off from being superheroes. Lee's art is great at showing all facets of drama, from tragedy to slapstick comedy. Ragnarok is a Korean work that is very entertaining and should appeal to fans of Japanese and American comics.	2005-07-18
US	47412112	R34C48JFJW1XKQ	1569319480	179074352	InuYasha, Vol. 2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	AND HE TRIED TO SLAY HIS BROTHER!	The first half of this volume concerns the continuing battle with Yura of the Hair, a witch who is able to puppeteer corpses and use her hair to cut off body parts. Yes, she's always having a bad hair day! Sorry about that. In what I believe will be an ongoing trend, Inuyasha finds that he can't defeat Yura alone because only Kagome can see Yura's strands of hair. In the second story arc in this volume, a talking flea named Myoga, with the inappropriate title \\"Divine Grace\\" shows up to tell Inuyasha that someone is trying to rob his father's grave! That would-be graverobber is Sessho-Maru, Inuyasha's half-brother and full-blooded demon, which makes him more powerful than our anti-hero. Let's just say there's no love lost between the two, because there isn't any love at all! Looks like Inuyasha might have to call on Kagome again as the two square off.<br /><br />Rumiko Takahashi is a true manga genius. Her artwork is beautiful. You find yourself actually seeing an anime in your head when you read her manga, because they are so exquisitely detailed, and the characters spring to life. The action is never confusing, and she never shrinks from realistic blood. There is also a sort of warm charm in the relationship between Inuyasha and Kagome that seems more real than even most shojo. Classic series.	2005-07-18
US	47412112	RHH1GBQIGGMEN	1591167779	140019314	Flowers & Bees, Vol. 7	Books	3	2	2	N	N	FINALLY, I GET RESPECT	Well, we're finally down to the last volume of Flowers & Bees and the question is, has Komatsu learned anything? Sakura is now his girlfriend, but starting a relationship is only half the battle! How do you keep the person interested without smothering them, without pandering to their every wish? How do you act around them? These are all questions Komatsu will have to answer simply because he's never had a real girlfriend. He's still trying to play it cool by dyeing his hair blond but he does it wrong and turns it orange instead and then has to shave all his hair off. And then jealousy starts to sit in as he begins to doubt Sakura's faithfulness, and Komatsu's own heart will be tested by another girl.  <br /> <br />Flowers & Bees should be required reading for anyone about to get into a relationship, whether you're 18 or 90 years old, because over 7 volumes it exposes all the lies and mind games that goes on between two people. It also shows the fallacy in pursuing personality traits that you never have possessed. Moyoco Anno's writing and artwork perfectly suited the story and she never shied away from controversy about nudity or sex or language in this series. She let it all hang out and that was good because it was honest and in the end this manga is about honesty. If you just be true to yourself and voice your true feelings to others, you're going to be ok in the end!  One complaint I had about this volume was the epilogue at the end that almost ruins the lessons and mood of all that has come before. Still, it was a great series!	2005-07-18
US	47412112	RH0CVD3WHBW72	1591823153	616539907	Battle Royale, Book 2	Books	4	4	4	N	N	IS THERE ANYBODY NOT PLAYING OUT THERE?	Shuuya and Noriko have managed to survive the first night of the Program and have promised each other not to play the game. But the problem is how do you know who is and is not playing? How can you approach someone and ask them the question, and secondly, are they telling you the truth, or will they kill you as soon as your guard is down? It's a setup whereby no matter what you do, innocent people are going to get killed. Sakura Ogawai and her boyfriend Kazuhiko are also pondering this question in another part of the island. And Kazuo, the gang leader who doesn't even fear the yakuza is also coming to a decision as to whether to play the game. Yumiko and Yukiko, two girls on their own, make a desperate plea via loudspeaker for everyone to quit the game, even though it will probably be their last request if the right side doesn't show up first! <br /> <br />Battle Royale again dishes out some of the most compelling drama I have seen in any medium. It's sad because a lot of the people WANT to do the right thing and yet the circumstances favor those who want to win the game, those who want to kill. The flashbacks each of the characters has adds to the tragedy that befalls all of them. Yes, there is death, there is spectacle in this manga, but the true message lies in the battle of the characters to deal with the twisted reality into which they have been thrown. You really care about the people striving to hope, and despise those that are participating in the Program, because these character's acceptance to play means that they have no hope of escaping the island any other way. Shuuya and Noriko think there is another way out, and hopefully, they can find others of like mind.	2005-07-18
US	47412112	R187PTO3GR057G	1569319472	890234837	InuYasha, Vol. 1	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I'VE FALLEN AND I CAN'T GET BACK TO MY TIME	In 1997, Kagome is a normal everyday Japanese high school student who has to constantly listen to her grandpa going on about old legends and folklore. She basically lives in a shrine with her grandpa, mother and little brother, next to a sacred tree and a mysterious well. When she is dragged into that well by a humongous centipede demon, she finds herself back in the time of the warring states. The demon wants the \\"Shikon Jewel\\" from Kagome. There's no way she will be able to stand alone against this demon so she will have to free an even more powerful half demon to fight it. That half-demon's name is Inuyasha! <br /> <br />Rumiko Takahashi has a certain magic in her manga. To me she is like the Steven Spielberg of Japanese comics. She has a lot of popular appeal but in the end it's not because she caters to her fans, but because there is just something unique about her character designs, or maybe it's the warmth and passion she brings to her work. I just love her stuff. Inuyasha is by no means targeted at small children. There's nudity, blood, and genuine frights in this volume. It seems Inuyasha and every other demon that comes along wants the Shikon Jewel because it amplifies their power considerably. Actually, that's why Inuyasha was ensorcelled, because Kikyo, who everybody seems to think has been reincarnated as Kagome, had to stop him from abusing his power. It will be interesting to see how this relationship will play out between the two main characters. While I have been aware of Inuyasha, this is the first time I have ever read one of the manga. It looks like it will be good, and there are many many volumes to follow. <br /> <br />I would also recommend the manga Mermaid Saga by the same author and also the anime version of Inuyasha. Two other anime that have the same theme are The Twelve Kingdoms and Escaflowne.	2005-07-14
US	47412112	R1693DR4MKIMMO	1413902375	346648363	Ray Volume 2	Books	1	4	7	N	N	A DOCTOR'S FARCE	First of all, I really enjoyed Volume 1 of Ray, but this second volume took the cake, frosting, and the oven it was baked in for sheer ludicrous action and a mindless armageddon of a promising manga! At what point did I know I was in trouble? I would say in the first story when Mr. Sawa, the peg-legged, cigar chomping superior of Ray, comes to her rescue standing up on the roof of a speeding car, who then launches himself like a bullet into a snowbank, causing an avalanche, thereby burying Ray's pursuers! Or was it in the second story, \\"The Link\\", in which a young girl right out of the X-Files, becomes covered in mysterious cuts and bruises, and begins speaking in another voice. It's up to Ray to find their source before she dies. Yes, this sounds interesting, but the ending and explanation of what is causing them has to be one of the worst thought up excuses of a climax that I have ever experienced. It made Clifford the Big Red Dog look sublime. Horrible. Awful. The more so because I liked the first volume so much. There is a total emotional disconnect with the characters here. For example, after one of her patients dies, Ray says something like \\"Oh well, on to the next case!\\". From the get-go, this volume was heavy on ludicrousness and pitiful climaxes. Ray just lost its already tenuous hold on reality and sank into sub-pokemon strata. Too bad.	2005-07-13
US	47412112	R2M1NYAMB6Z773	1595329420	237303852	Sakura Taisen, Vol. 1	Books	1	3	9	N	N	BAD ACTING	Ensign Ogammi has just graduated from the Naval Academy and has been assigned to important duties in Tokyo in 1921. He is very ambitious and patriotic so when he finds out his \\"special assignment\\" is working at the Grand Imperial Theater, the most prestigious playhouse in the city he figures there might have been some mistake. As he begins to meet the members of the acting troupe he realizes just how low on the totem pole he really is.  First, there's the prima donna, Sumire who thinks she is God's gift to acting and treats Ogami like a dog. Iris is a little girl with psychic powers and a disturbing attraction to older men. Maria is an overly masculine woman who never talks but seems to take all the male roles at the theater for some reason. Sakura Shinguji is the only person at the theater who shows Ogami an ounce of respect and kindness. And the person in charge of them all, Yoneda, is an alcholic boozehound. So Ogami's responsibilities consist of being bossed around by these ladies, sweeping, mopping, being harrassed by effeminate men, and taking tickets on play nights. Not exactly what he planned!<br /><br />This first volume of Sakura Taisen was a real bore. 3/4 of it is taken up by theater duties and none of the female characters are likeable or interesting. They all seem like caricatures, even Sakura seems the stereotypical nice person. The other girls are either annoying or downright mean and you have no desire to know them better. If you're going to have this type of interaction between characters as the bulk of your manga, you'd better make sure the reader can relate to them. I will say that while the story is awful, the art is great! If only someone else had written it!	2005-07-12
US	47412112	R3P0U93Q0F5O1G	1595323430	410070338	Visitor Volume 2	Books	3	0	0	N	N	NIGHTMARES CONTINUE	Volume 2 of Visitor left a lot lacking in the plot development department. Nothing really eventful happens in this volume until the closing pages, which barely makes up for the lack of the preceding 160 pages. Hyo-Bin and her on-again off-again friend Mi-Soo Kim continue to find themselves in a blood-spattered corpse-strewn room nightmare every night. Ji-Hwan continues to manuever himself into position to be Hyo-Bin's love interest, while his best friend, the more upright Gun-Yang pushes his feelings on Hyo-Bin even more. And she pushes them both away because she is afraid they will get hurt.<br /><br />Volume 2 was basically just more of the same. We have no further clues as to what is going on in the two girl's nightmare. It's starting to seem as if the horror element is taking a back seat to the shojo elements here, so maybe the occult plotline should be jettisoned so the author can focus on the whole girl/boy dynamic. If not for the last few pages I would not pick up Volume 3. But as for now, I can still have hope that Visitor will get back on track.	2005-07-10
US	47412112	R3DUQZ04L5MNGH	1413901026	574007231	Sky Blade Sword Of The Heavens Volume 2	Books	4	1	1	N	N	BLOOD IS THICKER THAN WATER	The Palace of Divine Goddesses seems to be a place that no man can enter and come out alive. Except for one, Il-Geum. It seems he was raised by these beautiful women as a child. Fresh off of his encounters with the 3 Gems of the Land, all of whom he believes are in love with him (in actuality, they want to kill him), he begins to show his own glimpses of martial skill. Meanwhile, Woon-Jung (Jade of Ice) also shows up at the palace and pays the girls to kill the person that pulled off her dress and humiliated her. They accept the bounty and only afterwards find out the offender is Il-Geum. They are duty-bound to carry out the contract, no matter what their personal feelings! Il-Geum is in a world of hurt in this second volume, and he hasn't even met the \\"Twin Devils of North and South\\" yet! <br /> <br />This second volume continues the light humor and slapstick of Volume 1. It's just good clean fun. Like when Il-Geum initiates one of his special attacks and it occurs behind him instead of where he aims. Or when he accuses Woon-Jung of being an exhibitionist. It's a shame that the rest of this series probably will never be published.	2005-07-10
US	47412112	R204B5VODROCJA	1586649396	329861650	Hard Boiled Angel: Blue Angel Book 2	Books	3	0	0	N	N	IT'S A WOMAN'S WORLD, MAN!	Korean cop Jiran Ha is a strong woman. While not seeing men as equal to women, (she constantly punches one of her male co-workers in the crotch), in the first story in the book she does try to overcome male prejudice toward women officers. A temp juvenile counselor in the department whose name is also Jiran Ha is mistakenly sent an invitation to give a speech at a police ceremony. It's up to the Hard-Boiled Angel to shine a light on the important and hard work this person does. The other two stories are more of the crime noir style. In \\"The Song of the Hungry Ghost\\", Jiran Ha must track down an escaped convict, a man who only seems to kill rapists, causing quite a moral dilemma for Jiran because of her pro-woman stance. And plus she finds herself oddly attracted to his purity. In the last story in the volume, an engaged couple are found dead in a sea cave, the only witness the woman's ex-lover, who is suffering from a mental disorder and losing touch with reality. Jiran Ha's superiors naturally pin it on the rejected lover but Jiran is not so sure. <br /> <br />I think it is very appropriate that underneath the title this manhwa is called \\"A Crime Novel\\". These are very long stories and are very detailed in their characterization. I admire it simply for the gritty and lengthy storytelling alone. Having the great art to go along with it makes it even more special. I especially like how Jiran Ha pushes all the men around in the stories and turns the tables on them. Some sequences can be a little melodramatic but nothing beyond reason. Great read, though inferior to the first volume.	2005-07-10
US	47412112	R2JG17RK6KC0RV	1591823145	948446898	Battle Royale, Book 1	Books	4	2	2	N	N	EVERYBODY DIES SOMETIME	A military dicatatorship rules Japan and the top rated show is \\"The Program\\", a reality television abomination in which a ninth grade class is transported to an island and forced into killing each other until only one person remains. What happens if you refuse to play? If someone is not killed each day, then collars around the student's necks, implanted with explosives, detonate! And oh, by the way, the island is divided in a grid into square areas which randomly become \\"danger zones\\" meaning that if you do not evacuate the premises, again, your collar will detonate. The government does play it fair, giving everyone a randomly selected weapon which could be anything from a knife to a semi-automatic machine gun. Class B, which comprises 42 students from Shiro Iwa Junior High School has been selected for this season of The Program and its ranks contain some pretty unique characters. There's budding wanna-be rockstar Shuuya, loner Shogo, basketball jock Shinji, martial artist Hiroki, and all-around good girl Noriko. Dredging the other side of the class includes Kazuo, a gang leader who is not even afraid of taking out Yakuza, and Mitsuko, a slutty vixen who gets her kicks hustling and robbing older perverts.  <br /> <br />Well, I will give Battle Royale the award for bloodiest, most politically incorrect if made into a movie receives X rating honors. And actually, its quite well done on top of that, conveying an urgency, a horror, a poignancy that films rarely achieve. Through unintrusive flashbacks, the characters gain more emotional clout, making the ensuing graphic violence all the more powerful. This is not mindless killing. These characters react realistically and begs the question of what you would do in a similar situation. Would you hide, would you try to find others of similar mind,try to escape, who could you trust, or would you kill? Of course it's also a commentary on the voyeuristic hedonism of modern TV, whether it's Japanese or American. While the plot is a bit ripped from other people's concepts like Running Man, Survivor, and the \\"Arena\\" episode of the original Star Trek TV series, its the great characters that are injected into this plot that make the difference in Battle Royale.	2005-07-09
US	47412112	R2UYSQUARIWZ6	0975419315	140782195	Dead@17: Blood of Saints	Books	3	2	2	N	N	DEAD@17 ALL OVER AGAIN	After the events of the first series Nara thought she could rest easy, at least from the demons who wanted to use her to rule the world. But she still has to disguise herself and keep the fact that she is still alive secret except from a few people. The evil demon Bolabogg has not been idle. There is another girl, Violet Grey, who, like Nara, is one of the \\"Resurrected\\". The difference is that Bolabogg has possessed her and intends to use her in place of Nara. While Nara's friends Hazy and Elijah get a little mood for love going, she realizes that she just might have to face the forces of evil by herself.   <br /> <br />This second trade paperback seemed pretty much like a repeat of the first series. Kinda like destroying the Death Star twice in the first Star Wars Trilogy. The plot is pretty much the same except Violet takes the place of Nara. It would have worked better as complimentary alternate realities instead of saying that Blood of Saints advances the characters beyond the first series. The art is amiable but again, the plot was a repeat.	2005-07-09
US	47412112	R2WY150R50KWUE	141390081X	943578901	Sky Blade Sword Of The Heavens Volume 1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	MISTAKEN IDENTITIES?	A pack of bandits attack a young woman and her travelling companion, not knowing that she is Soo-Ah, the \\"Emerald of Virtues\\", one of the \\"3 Gems of the Land\\", and is a vicious fighter. After killing the band, she leaves their corpses to rot in the woods. Il-Geum, a wandering loser, celebrating his birthday with a hungry stomach and his faithful but insulting bird, come on the scene. Il-Geum takes the Sword of the Crescent Moon from the bandit leader's body and proceeds to an inn. It is at this point that the identity mistakes start to occur. Another great fighter, Jih-Ro, witnesses Il-Geum taking the sword and believes him to be the killer of the bandits. He follows Il-Geum to an tavern and learns that he just might be part of the prophecy that his father told to him. It is said that another child was born at the same time and day as Jih-Ro, and that one of them would die while the other would conquer the land! It's about at that time when the dead bandit's brother comes knocking at the door!  <br /> <br />SkyBlade is an excellent Korean action-comedy piece that pokes fun at the historical/martial arts genre. Even the bird carries a sword on his back, even if he doesn't have arms to swing it. The art is cartoony but suits the subject. Really, the purpose of this first volume is to introduce the characters so the next volume should be even better.	2005-07-07
US	47412112	R3IA689KA6SVKE	1591825091	480985830	Planetes, Book 2	Books	4	0	0	N	N	IM GOING TO JUPITER! I HOPE!	The first manned mission to Jupiter is planned to take place in 2078, three years from now. Hachimaki has decided to be on that mission so he has started training, because he has to compete against hundreds of thousands of applicants. Hachi figures that he can become famous and rich by going on the mission, allowing him to buy his own ship and go where he wants to go. He might even have a little edge because the designer of the Von Braun (the Jupiter craft) wants Hachi's father to pilot it. Another new character, Tanabe, is introduced as the replacement for Hachi on the debris ship. She's as green as all get-out, and if Hachi doesn't end up hating her, he just might love her. On top of all this, the Space Defense League, a radical space environmental group has begun targeting the candidates for the Jupiter mission.  <br /> <br />I enjoy the realism of the story and the art in Planetes. You don't have people pulling out Pokemon cards to do battle. While it is a little light-hearted at times, the real focus of this manga is on man's proclivity to go beyond this world. To explore frontiers, but the danger is, that like Hachi's father, you sometimes forget about human attachments because one begins to love space more than people. Planetes can be a little heavy-handed with its message at times but it makes up for it with grit and passion. Good book.  <br /> <br />If you liked this I would recommend the anime version. I would also recommend the Mars series by Kim Stanley Robinson, a series of novels about the colonization of Mars which has a similar if more complicated palet than Planetes.	2005-07-05
US	47412112	R2BOFO8T4T39VN	0679733787	66884954	The Woman in the Dunes	Books	2	17	25	N	N	LEARN TO BE WEAK	A schoolteacher named Niki Jumpei is out doing what he likes to do in his spare time, catching bugs along the seashore. He fancies himself an amateur entomologist. Missing the bus back, he decides to spend the night in a delapidated village. He should have recognized the danger signs when he discovered that all of the houses are built in gigantic holes or pits with rope ladders the only way to exit them. Instead he goes down into one of the holes, to stay in a house occupied by a widowed 30 something woman. It's only the next day when the rope ladder is gone that he realizes that he is a prisoner there. It seems that he will have to contribute to the village obsession. Namely, shovelling sand out of the hole. The villagers seem to believe that if the sand dunes are not held back, the entire village will be buried under its mounds. Even though the woman tells Niki that noone has ever escaped, he's dead set on the thought anyway. <br /> <br />The Woman in the Dunes is an unremarkable novel, at least in my view. It's the Japanese version of Albert Camus and it suffers by being a descendant instead of the original. Its simplicity of plot and action greatly diminishes its power instead of strengthening it. I'm all for existential angst, but by this point, the theme has been done to death. The characters are so weak and defeated that you feel insulted by their presence. I would like to hope that an average human being would have more resilience than the protagonist of this novel. Instead of reading this, check out Camus' The Stranger.	2005-07-05
US	47412112	R18CPBRWTL4WOO	1595323422	465527572	Visitor Volume 1	Books	4	3	3	N	N	IS YOUR NAME CARRIE?	Korean high schooler Hyo-Bin Na is a very beautiful young lady and being new to the school, she garners a lot of attention. All of the most popular guys are hanging around her like flies. Hyo-Bin doesn't want any friends though, and she especially doesn't want a boyfriend. You see, she feels as if she is cursed because bad things happen to people who get close to her. And then there's the nightmares. Every night in her dreams she is in a room doused with blood and dead bodies, and there is a voice that speaks to her, wanting to be let in and appears as a dark visage in a mirror. Hyo-Bin isn't alone in the nightmare. She finds out that the room she dreams of is actually the room of one of her classmates, Mi-Soo Kim, and that the two are having the same nightmare, and can see and communicate with each other in their sleep! It's up to the two girls to figure out why these events are happening to them. Meanwhile, Hyo-Bin is beginning to exhibit dark powers that might make her fears about hurting people become a reality. <br /> <br />I have to say that this is an extremely well-written horror mystery with shades of shojo romance. The relationship angles never really get too sappy or burden the storyline. Yee-Jung No does a good job of blending the humor and the horror into a disturbing concoction. It really makes me want to go out and get Volume 2 today because of the suspense. The only thing that put me off a little was the artist's style of drawing in which the characters are over-enlongated, making them sometimes look like giraffes with big heads. But once you get over this stylistic complaint, this book is really good.	2005-07-04
US	47412112	R1CTL3CPGK9HV5	1413902588	669876953	Cromartie High School, Vol. 2	Books	3	1	2	N	N	DESTROYER	The First Years at Cromartie High School have some competition within their school and outside of it. There's still Bass High School whose strategy meeting for deposing Cromartie's bad reputation becomes a focus on nose hairs. Not exactly brain surgeons. Destrade Industrial High also wants to dethrone Cromartie, but the problem is that its afroed leader, Noboru, wants to be a stand-up comic so his mind is always wandering to comedy routines while his colleagues talk of school battles. It's too bad he's not even funny. And then there is \\"The Four Great Ones\\", a clique of the worst second year students who wear Kiss make-up. Their main problem is that there are FIVE four great ones! There's lots of crazy stuff in this volume, including an alien abduction of Freddie, a plane highjacking on the school's field trip, and Mechazawa taking Kamiyama along to buy a computer, because Mechazawa says he isn't good with machines! <br /> <br />I have to say that this second volume was not as funny as the first. It did have its moments and it is funnier than most of the stuff you see on network TV. It just seemed like a bunch of jokes with no punchlines though. Hopefully, the next installment will bring it back to good form.	2005-07-03
US	47412112	R3C4MM9GPNKSZ8	1413900011	733767639	Full Metal Panic! Volume 1 (Full Metal Panic (Graphic Novels))	Books	3	5	8	N	N	SECRET AGENT STUDENT	Kaname Chidori has a boy at her high school who seems to follow her wherever she goes, and his chivalrous nature protects her from all dangers. She even reciprocates his feelings of attachment even though she won't admit it to him or herself. His name is Sosuke Sagura. He's such a great guy that he even busts through her window at home, swinging on a rope, ready to take down a threatening cockroach that Chidori almost steps on getting out of the shower. Yes, Sosuke is a weapons freak! And that's putting it mildly. For example, when someone leaves a love note for Chidori in her shoe locker, Sosuke deems that it would be safer to blow up the locker, along with part of the school! And the class president, Hayashimizu, seems to think that it was apporpriate too! Sosuke is actually an agent of Mithril, a super-stealth anti-terrorist agency, assigned to protect Chidori from anyone that would want to get their hands on her. Not because of her beauty, but because of the important information locked in her mind.  <br /> <br />Anyone that has already seen either Full Metal Panic anime series will find a lot of stuff they've already seen in this manga. But it's still entertaining even if you have. Panic has always be a little more unique than other series because it blends two distinct storylines. There's the high-school hijinks that occur at high school, which is mostly slapstick interaction between Chidori and Sosuke. The other line is the mecha action that occurs in the terrorists wanting to kidnap Chidori arc which takes things to a more dramatic level. The characters are great and the humor is funny. Recommended.	2005-07-01
US	47412112	R18JKQYH695GC4	0975419307	947205365	Dead@17: The Complete First Series (Dead@17: Blood of Saints)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	AND THE DEAD SHALL RISE	Nara Kilday has a pretty good life. She's 17, beautiful, smart, has a great friend named Hazy, and is a fun person. Well, that is until she starts having dreams about demons and punches her boyfriend in the mouth while in a trance. Then someone has the nerve to stab her to death! And then dead bodies come to life, possessed by evil spirits, killing innocent people! One of these zombies even comes after her friend Hazy, but incredibly, she is rescued by Nara, who it seems, is one of the \\"Resurrected\\", a being that death holds no sway over. She is told this by an agent of the Protectorate, an organization sworn to protect mankind from occult menaces, one of which menaces is out to capture Nara and use her for its own evil purposes. <br /> <br />The artwork of Dead@17 can be disarming at first, having a more manga or Teen Titan feel to it. But once you get used to it, the story takes care of the rest. This is just good clean fun, like a more mature Nancy Drew/Scooby-Doo adventure crossed with a George Romero Dead flick. Very entertaining. Recommended. Was followed by 4 issues of Blood of Saints and then 4 issues of Revolution.	2005-06-27
US	47412112	R36NTRB6XQ7UC	1931561850	968957064	The Seas	Books	2	4	14	N	N	THIS BOOK IS ALL WASHED UP	The Seas by Samantha Hunt is a washed up, lumbering hodge-podge of various styles and genres that is never able to establish its own reality to bend. Taking place in a town north of somewhere, stacked up a side of a cliff, imprisoned by a sea, whose residents are mostly alcoholics, one girl and her lover, Jude try to escape from this virtual prison. So what if Jude is 15 years older than her, love conquers all, right? Even if the girl thinks she's a mermaid and her father is some kind of spirit who vanished in the sea 11 years ago. The entire novel just comes out as some ramble of a nutcase straining at her straitjacket in some asylum somewhere. Maybe that was the intention. But the problem is that Hunt never establishes any sort of fictional reality against which the strange can happen. The only reality that intrudes here is that Jude is an Iraqi War vet who seems haunted by his experiences there. But this inclusion of the war only seems to suit the author's obivious distaste for our intervention there and seems completely out of place in the fantasy land she wishes to create. The setting itself was overdone. I mean, we are just beat over the head with the prison imagery over and over over. She talks about the town with all the subtlety of a flying mallet. A mood should be set a little more covertly. This novel was not awful, but it is supremely flawed.	2005-06-27
US	47412112	RD2GN9PWU61VR	1595325506	860646788	Chrono Code Volume 1	Books	3	4	4	N	N	TIME IS LIKE A RIVER	The problem with most works of fiction that deal with time travel is that travelling through time and changing the past brings a host of paradoxes and confusing \\"what ifs?\\" to the table. Chrono Code is no different. It starts out in 2274 as Dr. Joseph is resetting the security codes on a satellite named \\"Riverside\\" as security forces try to stop him. One of them calls himself a \\"chronoid\\", so far meaning that he can move faster than a normal human. But the Doctor is able to escape into the past. Then we go to Seoul, Korea 1994, where we meet Ji-Soo Chung, a high school student who specializes in beating up others in Kum Do, or kendo. She has no memory of her past beyond 4 years ago, except that she has a missing younger brother named Yun-Woo. As the story progresses it becomes apparent that someone is trying to kill her, and they just might be agents from the future, sent to eliminate her for some unknown reason. And then her brother shows up! <br /> <br />This was a mediocre start to a series, but it looks to get better, especially because it promises that the next volume will go back and fill in the plotholes in a sort of prequel to volume 1. The art was well done, but the action sequences took a little time to interpret because of all the dark lines used to indicate motion. I also liked the main character, Ji-Soo, who seems to be primed to make an interesting heroine. I'll check out volume 2 before I make a final judgement on Chrono Code.	2005-06-26
US	47412112	R2FJGVCH7WAQP3	141390274X	209563584	Gunslinger Girl, Vol. 3	Books	4	6	6	N	N	HIS NOSE IS GROWING	One of the Social Welfare Agency's agents has gone missing while on the trail of a mysterious new threat. I know it doesn't sound frightening, but the name of this threat is....Pinocchio! No, he's not the wooden puppet but seriously, his skills as a cold-blooded killer make him a match even for the Agency's cybernetically enhanced girls. He's been enlisted to help the terrorist forces of the Five Republics in their efforts to rebel against the government. The girls are sent into action against these forces and in an effort to protect an important political leader.  <br /> <br />While action is never far away in Gunslinger Girl, since Volume 2 this series has taken a more quiet and less bloody route in its storytelling. This is a good thing. Here we get a focus on the forces that plot against the Agency and all sides of the conflict seem to get an even break in terms of motivation. It's very hard to see it in terms of bad guys and good guys (or gals). Since both sides are willing to do atrocious things to better their causes. Buy it for the action, the intrigue, and the poignant relationships. Highly recommended!	2005-06-25
US	47412112	R23QXPD3O0V5QQ	1569312931	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 9: Angel's Ascension	Books	3	2	2	N	N	THE SECRET IS OUT	Battle Angel Alita is a series I wish I could like more, and while it was good, it seemed to lose its soul after the second volume. It had equal parts romanticism and graphic death. Once Alita got past that, especially when she became a part of the RollerBall/DeathSport thing, this series began to take a downturn. So it's not a surprise that the final volume of Alita comes to an unsatisfying and hokey end. <br /> <br />Alita has a final confrontation with Desty Nova as the mad scientist tries to conquer Alita's will from the inside out, by deceiving her mind. But we just might find out that that Nova has a soft and cuddly side during the process. And after all, he finally does reveal the hidden secret of Tiphares, a secret that drove Dr. Ido mad! Meanwhile, the forces of Den and Barjack embark on a hopeless mission to destroy Tiphares and bring it crashing to the ground. <br /> <br />This last volume of Alita suffered from the same faults as most of the series. It's just plain goofy. The characters, while going through horrible ordeals, never rise beyond Walt Disney caricatures. It just doesn't seem like much deep thought went into the plot or the conflicts that the characters endure. You could've went into some social commentary instead of following the insane ramblings of a Godzilla size Centaur. And the ultimate sacrifice that Alita makes in this comic is totally contrived and really disrespects her. You're left wondering at the end of the book, \\"Is that it? This is the great resolution that the entire series has been working towards?\\". The only thing that saves this series is the lead character herself. If only the story constructed around her had went somewhere. <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
US	47412112	R1HO19E1T39EYR	1591822629	323516642	Planetes, Book 1	Books	4	2	2	N	N	PICK UP YOUR TRASH MAN!	The year is 2074AD and the human race is primed to explore the solar system. There are bases on the moon and preparations are underway to send an expedition to Jupiter. 23 year-old Hachimaki has always talked about owning his own ship and becoming a famous astronaut. But somehow, over the years that dream has given way to reality. Hachimaki is an astronaut, from a certain point of view. He has gotten a job as a debris collector, a job which entails removing space garbage caused by all the satellites and assorted junk that mankind has left in orbit around the Earth. Space debris probably doesn't sound that dangerous, but just ask his colleague, Yuri, who lost his wife because of a piece of space junk, how serious it can be. The other crewmember of their operation is the pilot, Fee, a single mom who lets the guys do all the dangerous work.   <br /> <br />The first volume of Planetes is really a character study. There's Yuri, who must deal with the haunting presence of his dead wife. Yachimaki must ponder whether what he is doing is conducive to his goals in life, especially when he returns home to a little brother who sees him as a loser. And then there's Fee, who is just looking for a place to smoke a cigarette, even if the radical environmental group \\"Space Defense Fighters\\" is targeting smoking areas on the lunar base.  <br /> <br />Planetes is a manga that features more realism than most which is reflected in the story and the art. It's good science fiction with a does of humor and a cast that is instantly likeable. Highly reccomended. <br />	2005-06-18
US	47412112	R2ZWAMDVOY2Y8Q	1413902049	916165563	Ray Volume 1	Books	4	2	3	N	N	IS THERE AN OUTLAW DR. IN THE HOUSE?	Ray is a young lady who was raised on a secret \\"body farm\\", a place where human children are grown only to have their lives ended as they supply human organs to the elite of society. Ray would have died too had not a mysterious benefactor rescued her. Ray nonetheless, still lost her eyes, but she was given new ones, and these give her X-ray vision. By day she is a nurse at the Kawa Clinic, but her real profession is confronting medical problems that make even the most experienced doctors give up. Armed only with state of the art medical tools supplied by Shinoyama (he's like Bond's Q), Ray battles against elusive viruses, life or death decisions, gang warfare, and also the forces that took away her eyes. Don't get me wrong, there is a lot of action in this manga. Just think \\"ER\\" crossed with \\"Alias\\" and you'll get the feel for it. For example, while Ray is operating on a mob informant who has an almost sentient tumor, the nurses of Sawa Clinic are busy putting the smackdown with martial arts as assassins try to kill the turncoat. <br /> <br />Ray has great art, more Americanized than most manga (there's no big eyes in sight), and a story that at first seems a little crazy, but impresses you with its unique appeal. Highly recommended.	2005-06-15
US	47412112	R1WYA7FN9YD4V1	1587159961	990050627	The Castles of Athlin and Dunbayne	Books	3	1	3	N	N	DARK CASTLES AND DISTRESSED DAMSELS!	The Earl of Athlin was betrayed and killed by his envious neighbor Malcolm, the Baron of Dunbayne, 12 years ago. Fearing to endanger her people and the lives of her young children, the Earl's wife, Matilda, has kept out of the way of Malcolm, staying near to her castle and holding back the anger of her subjects. After 12 years, the Earl's son, Osbert, is now 19 years old, and can no longer be held back by his mother. In a surprise attack just as cowardly as that of Malcolm upon his father, he attempts to storm Dunbayne Castle without warning or a declaration of war. Unfortunately, for this overconfident and pompous youth, Malcolm saw it coming, and captures the dumb would-be Earl. Malcolm also has a healthy lust for Osbert's sister, Mary, and demands that she marry him in exchange for her brother's life. Most of the book is concerned with the effort to free Osbert from the Baron's clutches. These attempts are mainly made by the peasant Alleyn, whose bravery and martial skills more than make up for his social standing, well, at least in my eyes.  <br /> <br />This short novel has all the devices of the Gothic novel, including dark and gloomy castles, depressed characters, and adventure. But one of the things that stood out to me was the class system which wreaks of injustice. Osbert, the supposed hero of the tale, is always looking down on his best friend, Alleyn, even though his life has been saved by him. He's supposed to be this paragon of virtue and yet he does not think he is good enough for his sister. Everyone has the same blood and this is a good reason that the American and French Revolutions took place. To remind us that we are all created equal. The characters all seemed kind of bumbling and if it wasn't for the fact that they find secret doors of escape in every room they're imprisoned in, or the fact that every guard they encounter kneels before their moral superiority, they wouldn't have got very far. They make the gang in Scooby Doo look deep! You canalso see some of the solutions to the mysteries of the novel long before Radcliffe reveals them. It was entertaining though, and she was successful in creating mood and atmosphere, but don't look for anything but a comic book plot here.	2005-06-14
US	47412112	RH1PA1JDT1091	0872862399	212122159	Garments the Living Wear (Note Series; 143)	Books	2	4	6	N	N	TOO MUCH LOVE TO GO AROUND	The once famous singer Peg Sawbridge and her daughter Cleo live in palatial flat in New York City. Peg's personal project is being the patron of Jared Wakeman, a young and extremely handsome up and coming actor who would probably be living on the street without her support. The problem with that is that Peg's fortune is running out and she will soon be penniless. Enter Mr. Hennings, a 94-year old man with a weakness for young men, even though he's married to attractive Cuban woman named Estrellita. Hennings is attracted to Jared and Jared in turn is captivated by his wife. And then Peg and her daughter are both in love with Jared. Can you see where this is going? What you have in this novel is a group of people manuevering for money and for love, and power over others. How far will the Sawbridges and Jared sacrifice their integrity, or really, their souls, to the devilish figure of Mr. Hennings? They don't want to defy him too much since he has promised to build a theater just to showcase Jared!  <br /> <br />This novel is very good at showing the similarity between love and dependency, one being the ugly twin of the other. This novel almost goes beyond sex, and takes it to a realm beyond even sexual orientation. Purdy writes almost as a scientist sent down to observe aliens when he writes about these people.  The problem with it was that you never get the flesh and blood and thought of the characters. It almost feels like a closet drama, and indeed a lot of the language has a Shakespearean ring to it. They never seemed quite human and the novel became more like a Platonic dialogue on emotional dictators.	2005-06-13
US	47412112	R2T7XPOOOB9C4G	0879517034	328882870	Norwood	Books	1	7	29	N	N	DULL ROAD TRIP!	Norwood Pratt has just been discharged from the Marines in order to take care of his sister, Vernell. She's not disabled or anything, she just lacks the common sense to take care of herself. Norwood gets a job as an auto mechanic in his old hometown of Ralph, Texas, as his sister gets married to a loser Vet and brings his annoying presence to their shared home. Having dreams of breaking into the country music business, he accepts the offer of an acquaintance to drive some cars up to New York for him. Norwood also hopes to reclaim a 70$ loan he had made to a friend who lives there. Of course, this is a picaresque novel in which our hero will have many adventures on the road. The problem is that this novel was dull. <br /> <br />There are some humorous bits in the book, like when Norwood throws a sausage patty at his sister's husband, but humor loses its power as we are shown a parade of caricatures and what I would call \\"quirky\\" characters. \\"Quirky\\" characters are those characters that authors use to inject an aura of strangeness or supposed surrealism into an otherwise realistic work. This pretty much destroys the book because these grotesquerie's apperances are so brief that they are not shown as true characters and become part of the scenery. It's like watching a play and focusing on the background instead of the main actors. The other failing of the book is that it's just not interesting. Even the dialogue is unbelievable. Especially a scene in which two characters decide to get married after meeting on a bus for a couple of hours. It all just seems like an attempt at a discount Dickens. Avoid this work.	2005-06-10
US	47412112	R2SC83URLM9LK5	141390257X	669876953	Cromartie High School, Vol. 1	Books	4	2	3	N	N	THIS HIGH SCHOOL IS CRAZY!	16 year-old Takashi Kamiyama decides to enroll in Cromartie High School, one of the roughest and toughest schools in Tokyo. Kamiyama has brains and could go where he wants but his best friend is a moron. So Kamiyama decides to stand by his friend and attend Cromartie with him. The problem is that his best friend is so stupid that he can't even get into the worst school in the city! So Kamiyama must face up to the reality that he's the only good guy in attendance. He starts to understand what he's up against when he drops his pencil on the floor, and a delinquent picks it up and eats it! It's not long before he becomes accquainted with some of the most bizarre characters in his life. These include a Freddie Mercury look-alike and a gorilla who seems to be smarter than some of the students, including Kamiyama's ally, the mohawk-sporting Hayashida. There is even a robot shaped like a garbage can with arms who wears a school uniform shirt over his metal body without attracting the least attention. The undisputed leader of the misfits suffers from motion sickness so when they're driving to a gangfight, he's ready to throw up. And you have Yokuto, whose father has great political pull in the education system, which has allowed his son to control 18 different schools, who plans to make Cromartie his 19th, that is, if he can defeat stupidity.  <br /> <br />This first volume of Cromartie was a good laugh. The situations verge on the absurd most of the time, such as when some of the students argue over whether the gorilla is considered human or not and someone says \\"he's wearing a watch\\" so that makes him human! The manga was very inventive, and reminded me of Azumanga Daioh but with a male sensibility. It does seem like the concept could become tired after a few volumes, so hopefully Volume 2 will go in some different direction. I would stay away from the anime version because it is so poorly animated that it seems no improvement over the manga.   <br /> <br />I would also recommend the manga and anime versions of Azumanga Daioh. Also, The Breakfast Club dvd movie.	2005-06-09
US	47412112	R1BK4CIPNZGDPQ	0811210197	510663260	Battles in the Desert & Other Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	IDEAL VIEW MEET IMPURE WORLD	Battles in the Desert is a short but powerful collection of short stories by a Mexican writer that I believe needs more exposure in America. The stories in this book mainly deal with the conflicts that children or young adults have with the world they will have to grow up in. For example, in the title story, a young man falls in love with his classmate's mother, whose declaration of love leads to unforseen and negative results, not because of his feelings, but because of the prejudices of his neighborhood. That's really what this collection is about. The main character of each has an almost pure emotion of love for someone but when this feeling is brought out in the open, such as in \\"The Pleasure Principle\\", in which two young lovers are kept apart by circumstances, either a betrayal or the people around them drive a wedge into their bliss. Pacheco also focuses on the plight of the poor in \\"The Sunken Park\\" in which a boy is payed by his aunt to take her beloved cat to the vet to be put to sleep for 20 pesos. Him and his friend decide to kill the cat themselves and spend the money on food. These stories are quite touching and written very realistically in a masterful way.	2005-06-08
US	47412112	R2YPSWOFRNP8NE	1569717451	724717868	Cannon God Exaxxion Stage 1	Books	2	1	3	N	N	TRUE COLORS	It's been 10 years since we made first contact with alien lifeforms, the humanoid Riofaldians. During this time they have integrated quite well into all walks of human life. Some of them have even become teachers. On our part, we have become hopelessly dependent on their advanced technology. They are now due to open up their first planetside base off the coast of Hawaii with a bunch of human VIPs on hand for the ceremony.  <br /> <br />Hoichi Kano, our hero, or \\"Gun\\" as he is affectionately known by his friend Akane, having been raised by a crack-pot grandfather has always been taught that the Riofaldians are actually invaders who will turn on us one day. And that's pretty much the truth, as the Riofaldians broadcast their plans to make the Earth a subjugated colony. The fact that they control most of the technology makes our defeat a foregone conclusion. That's unless Gun's grandfather has built a power suit for Hoichi, supplied a shape-shifting big-busted companion, and a Godzilla size mecha to fight against the aliens. He HAS! <br /> <br />With its oversexed hero, big boobs, and phallic imagery, this first volume seemed like a bad story from Heavy Metal Magazine. The characters are all campy and transported right out of a bad 1960s Adam West Batman episode. First of all, it's so convenient that Gun's grandfather just happens to have all this technology lying around for Hoichi to use with no training whatsoever. He just pulls out what looks a normal handgun and starts blowing away alien mecha. The fact that his girl Akane, finds one of her teachers cut in half doesn't seem to leave much impression on her. And the fact that Hoichi's grandfather allows thousands of people to be killed by a Riofaldian mecha just to prove that Earth is too soft and pacifist to deal with the alien problem is a little much, and the fact that he is constantly grabbing his all female(robot?) assistants in the chest area is a little disturbing. On top of that the mecha designs are totallygoofy, even with their names painted across them. I mean, who is going to be reading it? This series is a failure to me with its immature and caricatured characters and their lack of respect for life and their sexual obsessions right out of Sade.	2005-06-08
US	47412112	R3RO0ECGMRPJU8	0679726209	616949871	Mary	Books	4	2	4	N	N	LOVE IS PAST	First published in Berlin in 1926, Mary is Vladimir Nabokov's first novel. As with all first novels, this book is much more autobiographical than the author's later works.  <br /> <br />Lev Glebovich, also known as Ganin, lives in a Berlin boarding house along with other Russian emigres. He has a mysterious past which comes to light when Aleksey Alfyorov, a fellow boarder, shows him a picture of his young wife that will be arriving in Berlin in a week. Much to Ganin's shock, he recognizes the picture as his long lost love, Mary. He had lost touch with her during World War I and hasn't spoken to her in 5 years. Jobless and lacking a driving passion, Ganin begins to live in his memories of the past as he makes plans to run away with Mary when she arrives. <br /> <br />This story was unconventional in the sense that Mary never really arrives. Nabokov shows her through memories and names the book after her, but its really about Ganin and his conflict over whether Mary actually exists anymore or is she a memory that can never be regained. In this sense, Mary exploits themes explored more fully by Proust. For such a short book, the author succeeds very admirably at bringing the characters of the boarding house alive and in creating prose that feels like a dream. This is a masterful debut.	2005-06-06
US	47412112	RFRXL3RZ81KKE	1413902332	527987171	Gunslinger Girl, Vol. 2	Books	4	5	5	N	N	BLESS THE KILLERS	Volume 2 of Gunslinger Girl has less violence and more character development than the first installment. We start off with the backstory of Claes and end with the backstory of the first girl agent, Angelica. The most touching moments of the series are when the girls remember their humanity despite all the \\"conditioning\\" they receive to rid them of it. Even some of the adult \\"handlers\\" begin to question whether they are on the right side. The middle section of this volume deals with the Agency trying to stop mad bombers and rescuing the money man of an underground organization. But the plot is interspersed with quiet moments such as the girls going out in the dead of night to enjoy a meteor shower, and the tragic story of Angelica, whose own father tried to kill her for insurance money. The same Angelica whose memory is completely shot due to the massive amount of experimentation that was done on her. <br /> <br />The premise of Gunslinger Girl is quite disturbing but it does show how adults corrupt the world of children with no regard to their welfare at times. In a war against terrorists just how far would people be willing to go? What is the difference in sending 18 year olds to fight and die? Are they any less children than the girls we see here? Another poignant thing about it is that all the girls seem to have been unwanted, in some cases, even by their own parents. And that they cling to their handlers and to each other as the only family they have. Yu Aida never exploits the plot. I think the author is trying to show how a blank slate can be turned into a killer if properly trained. But there is something in the souls of the girls that is trying to fight its way out and reject this whole messed up situation. Thought provoking manga!	2005-06-06
US	47412112	R32DVS5OE5B5OG	0452277787	849318305	The Sleeping Car Murders	Books	1	1	6	N	N	CAN SOMEONE GET ME A REAL COP?	Pierre Grazziano, or Grazzi, as he is known, is a Paris police investigator who would rather do anything else than actually strain his mind to solve a difficult case. Instead of worrying about bringing justice to crime victims, his department is more intent on office politics and not rocking the boat about anything. And there's nothing that will make you look worse than bungling a complex investigation.  <br /> <br />So it's not Grazzi's day when he is assigned to investigate the murder of Georgette Thomas, a beautiful 30 year old woman. She was found dead from strangulation, in a sleeping-car of a train travelling from Marseilles to Paris. There were five other people in the sleeping-car with her and its up to Grazzi and his equally unenthusiastic partner, Gabert, to interview the other occupants to find out who had a motive for the killing. The problem is that one by one, those witnesses are being murdered, possibly by the same person that killed Georgette. <br /> <br />The Sleeping-Car Murders doesn't really have a lot going for it. Its plot is uneventful really and cliched. Japrisot is unable  to build up any momentum or tension because of the overall boredom that comes through the policemen especially. I feel sorry for any crime victim that would expect these characters to take care of their safety. If you don't really have passionate characters, how can you make a passionate book? The only people that are mildy interesting are the other occupants of the railcar, which Japrisot reveals when he tells chapters from their point of view. But these soon pale because you know they are going to be murdered no matter how interesting they are. It also seems like the police would have made more of an effort to protect those witnesses once they started dying like flies. I guess that was too much trouble though.  <br /> <br />In conclusion, I thought this novel was pretty mediocre and seemed like more of a hack job than anything else.	2005-06-03
US	47412112	RYWMP2HDZ21SP	0385491050	235045723	Surfacing	Books	2	11	19	N	N	LET'S TRY SOMETHING POETIC	The female narrator of Surfacing by Margaret Atwood is a woman with emotional scars that she has never faced, a victim of a previous marriage whose goal is to keep herself from love as long as she can. Taking leave of her job as a commercial artist, she travels to a remote Canadian island to search for her father, who has turned up missing from his solitary cabin. Going along with her is her boyfriend Joe, a man who loves her without receiving anything in return except her body. Also along for the adventure is Anna, her best friend, if you can call someone a best friend whom you've only known for 2 months. Anna's oversexed boyfriend, David, joins the party. What the narrator will find will have less to do with her father than the old standby cliched \\"return to nature\\" theme that has already been done to death.  <br /> <br />By the time I reached the overblown and hopelessly poetic, I mean pathetic, third part of this novel, I could sum up my feelings as \\"UGH!\\" While the first two parts are interesting and work doubletime as a mystery and self-exploration of the main character, it really started to fall apart in the last third when it turned into a poetic nature girl ramble right out of Wordsworth or Shelley, and the author came up sorely lacking. I began to wonder if I was reading Altered States.  <br /> <br />Something that was amusing was the constant undertheme of American bashing which surprised me because this novel was originally published in 1972. Americans represent everything that the narrator hates about the world, especially rampant consumerism and anti-environmentalism. You would think that Atwood could see beyond such crass stereotypes. Surfacing was quite good until the writer forced its narrative into a prose poem whose language is at complete odds with the characterization that had been established through its first 2/3's.	2005-05-29
US	47412112	R138YAM3CV80Y9	0743435257	901207868	Gust Front	Books	3	7	8	N	N	CENTAUR PURPLE PEOPLE EATERS INVADE!	Sometimes after you've seen a particularly bad movie, you find yourself asking the question \\"How did this movie get made?\\" After I finished reading Gust Front, a particularly bad book, I found myself asking the question \\"Why did I actually like this book more than it deserved?\\" I really don't have an answer for it. Maybe, like an Ed Wood movie, this novel is so bad that it eventually meets up with genius in a sublime cacophony of lameness. <br /> <br />As set up in the first book of the series, Earth is soon to be invaded by a race of aliens who look like a cross between an alligator and a centaur called the Posleen. The Posleen do not really conquer planets. They rape worlds and eat the inhabitants! And supposedly, they've had a pretty easy time of it so far because most of the sentient life they encounter are coencidentally pacifist and therefore easy pickings. That is, until they arrive at Earth. The terran forces are preparing for the invasion and are being supplied with advanced weaponry from other alien organizations who are trying to stem the tide of the Posleen. The Posleen are due to arrive within the next couple of months and the Earth forces are still dreadfully prepared. <br /> <br />I have many complaints about this book. First of all, the Posleen have to be the stupidest space-faring race I have ever seen. They walk into ambushes by following pieces of metal ore, its leaders plan on destroying all living beings on Earth in order to retire to the equivalent of Posleen Florida and live out their golden years producing genetically superior offspring. Oh, the good life! They have no idea of strategy, just mass attacks that lead to slaughters. I mean, even ants have a higher learning curve than these guys. So, after a while, it sorta takes away from the suspense of the battles. Terran forces set up ambush, Posleen walk right in.  <br /> <br />The characterization is awful. In the first third or so of the book some relationships are set up, but by the end ofit, there's so many different people involved, that the rest of the book is just a jumble of names that you cannot connect to faces. The real main character of the whole thing, Michael O'Neal, is drawn pretty well, but the rest of the cast just seems like so much cannon fodder. But even his character is ravaged by the lame fact that he likes to play loud 60's and 70's hard rock during his battles. I mean come on, that is so old school. The only time the writer succeeds in this novel is when he concentrates on his battle scenes, when characters don't matter and he can just describe troop movements.  <br /> <br />In an afterword to Gust Front the author implies that his interest in military fiction stems from his father's service in World War II. He also implies that any generation that came after this so-called \\"Greatest Generation\\" would have lost the war against the Nazis. I could not help but feel insulted that he believes that. Somehow, through his novel, Ringo is trying to show how wrongheaded and idiotic our contemporary culture would react to a fight for its survival. I, for one, believe that any generation of Americans would stand up for its country if truly threatened. So is Gust Front just a seedy metaphor that Ringo uses to show his disgust with modern day Americans? Perhaps. But since this is the last book of his that I will read, I'll probably always wonder how shooting some mindless aliens shows the true mettle of the American people.	2005-05-11
US	47412112	R1SZHSGFA03FKM	1569319006	70829843	Naruto, Vol. 1: Uzumaki Naruto	Books	2	6	18	N	N	ANIMAL SPIRITS AND NINJAS	12 years ago, Konohagakure, a village famous for its inhabitants, who just happen to be the greatest ninja in the world, was attacked by a nine-tailed fox demon. A village hero named Hokage was able to arise, and imprisoned the demon's soul, but lost his life in the effort. All of the young students in training at the Ninja Academy see Hokage as a model to which they aspire. One of these students is Naruto, whose disregard for the past extends to defacing monuments of the village heroes because he feels he is more powerful. His greatest ability is the \\"ninja centerfold technique\\" in which he can make an illusion of a naked woman dressed in mist to distract his opponents. He causes a lot of messes because he wants attention. He has no home or parents, and the entire village dislikes him. Only his tutor Iruka, who tries to control his excesses, shows some caring for Naruto. Maybe Naruto isn't just full of himself. Perhaps he does hold a power greater than that of Hokage.  <br /> <br />I have to admit, I am usually leery of anything with the words Shonen Jump on it. I decided to give Naruto a go anyway. The art was great, but it just all seemed a tad too kid oriented for me. It's mostly about people yelling and hitting each other and the characters are about as shallow as a one inch deep pond. There's really nothing here. I would recommend this manga to 12 year olds and below.	2005-05-08
US	47412112	R2DC2TLRHY1GG3	1569312435	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 8: Fallen Angel	Books	3	0	2	N	N	FINDING DR. IDO	Alita has been looking for her beloved Dr. Ido for over ten years, wandering the wastelands, and doing battle with all kinds of enemies. Of course, the most powerful of these was the Barjack, and its leader, Den, the cyborg monstrosity who has sworn to bring down Tiphares, even if it means killing everyone in the Scrapyard. As Den comes closer to fulfilling his plans to attack the city in the sky, Alita finally comes face to face with Dr. Ido, and then finds that she just might have to do battle with herself. And there's still the insane Desty Nova waiting in the wings. <br /> <br />This is part seven of the first Battle Angel Alita series and pretty much, if you liked the other volumes, this one follows the same basic formula. Alita is a being that has not decided what she is. Is she a human or a robot, or something in between? Because of the conflict within her, this series has always thought a little deeper than the average sci-fi action manga. Some of its humor seems a little oddly placed but the art is stunning as usual.  <br /> <br />	2005-05-06
US	47412112	R1ZV86P8VX665M	1595320342	504123400	Threads Of Time Vol. 3	Books	4	0	0	N	N	INVASION!	It's 1231 A.D., and after doing a little spying in Volume 2, the Mongol armies, led by the ruthless general Sali Tayi are ready to conquer the land of Koryo. At his side is Atan Hadas and some traitorous Koryans who have switched sides to save their own hides. Sali hasn't had too much trouble taking over the castles of the land, but he's about to meet his match at Ghu-Zhu Palace, whose defenses are commanded by Kim Kyung Soh, the father of our time displaced hero. If Sali is able to take the palace, then the rest of Koryo will be his.<br /><br />Volume 3 of Threads of Time showcases an epic siege similar to those you saw in the Lord of the Rings trilogy. Except this story is actually based on historical events. There is a history book out right now that tries to paint the Mongol hordes as champions of civilization but we see the real deal here. They were just a power hungry people who tried to bend others to their will. But as always through time, there are those brave souls who stand up against tyranny and fight for their land. There's a lot of blood spilled in the realistic art of this manga, but the action is done so well, you can almost see the motion as you read. The characters are also engaging, even though sometimes it's slightly difficult to tell them apart because they were not designed well visually. But its positives far outweigh these problems.<br /><br />If you liked this manga I would also recommend the Mel Gibson film, Braveheart, on dvd. Also, the Lord of the Rings Trilogy by Peter Jackson.	2005-05-02
US	47412112	R2H2MMX47KH6TA	1591827809	521332014	Threads of Time, Vol. 1	Books	4	11	12	N	N	TIME DREAMER	Moon Bin Kim is a student in 1997 Seoul, South Korea. His father has got him an apartment and sends him money as he needs it, but is lacking in the love and warmth department, to the extent that Moon wonders why his parents even had him. In the past couple of months, Moon has been having vivid dreams <br /> of living in 13th century Korea, known as Koryo at that time. The bizarre thing is that they have been becoming more and more real, and now they have engulfed him. He REALLY is in the Korea of 1229, a son of a warrior family who is trying to drum up support to fend off the Mongol hordes. And most of the people that surround him have the faces of people he knows in the 20th century, with just their names changed. If Moon can keep from losing his sanity, he might just figure out what is going on and why his life seems to stretch across the centuries.  <br /> <br />First of all, the art in this Korean manga is superb and realistic. The travelling back and forth in time is a little disconcerting but nothing you can't handle. I also thought it was interesting that the story is framed with actual historical events. A ghost that haunts Moon is especially scary. The dialogue also never stretches the boundaries of good taste with shouts of special attacks and the like. I would like a little more differentation in the design of the characters, since they tend to look alike. But you get the sense that only a few characters matter anyway. This is a great first volume.	2005-04-17
US	47412112	R2RM5Z0ZJQ5GV8	0974596167	986028109	Black Cat (Hino Horror, Book 6)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	AN OBJECTIVE OBSERVER	Volume 6 of Hino Horror is a trilogy of horror stories presided over by a black cat who joins the narrative and is narrator of the three stories. After being abandoned by their mother in an old junkyard, some kittens struggle to survive on their own. Day by day, all the kittens are taken by children to good homes, except nobody wants the last one, a black cat. Left on his own, the black cat wanders out to explore the world of humans. He will encounter a drunken clown at a circus down on his luck who creates a sinister doll to save his job. He will pity a poor bullied boy whose mother leaves him unattended at home for weeks at a time, that is, until a vicious black dog shows up, and in the last of the tales, the cat looks on as an ancient couple argue and fight with each other in the ultimate geriatric showdown! <br /> <br />All three of the stories in this book lack orginality. As soon as the horror element enters the story, you know exactly where it's headed. All of them probably would have been better as slice of life realistic tales, instead of bringing in the gore. The fact that the losers that the cat observes are horrible to the point of comedy is the one note of novelty here. Still, it's worth reading, but not the highpoint of Hino's talent.	2005-04-15
US	47412112	R11XB67RG191DL	0374508127	113519328	Gertrude	Books	4	2	2	N	N	BUT NOT FOR ME	The hero of Hesse's early novel GERTRUDE is straight from the Romantic tradition, even to the Byronic crippled leg that its narrator, Kuhn, suffers in a sledding accident. We have the growth of the artist fully on display here, from his early meanderings through music school, to fleeting first loves and disillusionment, to the existential angst, and the realization of the quest for one's muse. Yep, all of this is contained in this novel, that could have been written in the 1850s in England, but was instead written in the first quarter of the 20th century. Kuhn is a gifted composer, if not a musician, born to a wealthy family who is trying to decide what to do with his life. Almost everyone at the music school he attends seem to think that he is too unorthodox and too lazy to amount to anything. The novel Gertrude is a narrative of his life as he proves that he is anything but a nobody, as he works his way up the musical ladder, making friends with one of the best opera singers around, Heinrich Muoth, who also happens to be a ladies man, and is introduced to Gertrude, the daughter of one of his patrons with whom he falls in love.  <br /> <br />Although the general tone of Gertrude is Romantic, Hesse's third novel also touches upon ground that would only be fully explored later by Camus and the other Existentialist writers. The book is a little slow at points but becomes a study in cross purposes as characters fall in love with characters that do not love them in return. Hesse also hits upon the theme of the cruelty of life and that the great task of people is to lose themselves in others because as the self-absorbed Kuhn comes to find out, loving thyself to the exclusion of all others is a ticket to despair.	2005-04-15
US	47412112	R816LHRTO2WGO	1413900208	183722493	Gunslinger Girl, Vol. 1	Books	4	3	3	N	N	HENRIETTA GO GET YOUR GUN	The Social Welfare Agency in Italy is a government organization directly accountable to the prime minister that takes care of physically challenged children, ostensibly to give them a second chance at a normal life. Well, that's at least the cover for its true purpose. In actuality, they take these unfortunate children and turn them into cyborg assassins that do covert work for the government. Their memories are wiped clean and they are given doses of \\"medication\\" to make them more pliable to the control of their partners, adult agents. Together, they are known as \\"fratello\\".  <br /> <br />This first volume tries to show the different types of relationships between partner and cyborg and the different levels of dehumanization that they bring about. For example, Giuseppe and Henrietta are almost a father daughter combo, with Giuseppe doing what he can, feeble though it is, to let her experience a modicum of normality. On the other hand some \\"handlers\\" see their cyborg partners as merely tools to be used and discarded. Neither option seems particularly wholesome to me. And therein lies the disturbing subtext of this manga. No matter how strong the love a person feels for you, it can never be genuine if they're brainwashed into it. The girls here know they have been programmed, but they're ok with it. One second they're having girltalk between each other, and then on the next page, they're killing someone. At least there are a few characters in here that feel guilty about the whole situation.  <br /> <br />The art is above standard and the story here is for mature readers, with scenes of graphic violence.	2005-04-11
US	47412112	RW5PBJ10MK6M1	1585675598	380195986	The Darkness That Comes Before (The Prince of Nothing, Book 1)	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	FANTASY MASTERPIECE	Ever since I got finished reading The Darkness That Comes Before I've had a hard time even thinking about reading other fantasy literature. This book was so well done that I feel as if fantasy could not be done any better than this and that any other work in this genre will always be a distant second to this awesome debut novel by R. Scott Bakker. This is truly a classic in the field.  <br /> <br />The world of Earwa is a land divided by competing religions and different cultures, and haunted by an apocalyptic event that shattered half of the continent as a lone king stood against a legion of evil. The last descendant of that king, Kellhus, a sort of warrior monk, has received a summons from his long missing father in his dreams and must travel to a distant city to answer it. He must move across a country preparing for a Holy War to retake the very city that is his goal. A sorceror named Achamian also has business with the Holy War, because it is in the midst of that war that he might find the stirrings of the ancient evil that almost destroyed the world once before.  <br /> <br />This is one of the greatest, if not THE greatest fantasy works I have ever read. It makes even the Lord of the Rings look at times like a childish fairy tale. If I compared this book to another, probably the book that comes to mind is Dune by Frank Herbert. The world of Earwa is just that meticulously crafted. There are so many things going on that what plot I have mentioned hardly does justice to the complex manueverings of the different peoples and the Emperor, all of them trying to bend a Crusade into serving their own selfish ends. And add to that mixture, the different schools of magic all vying to settle their own private scores, even as a few wiser souls try to see through the haze of religious fervor to ponder the true mechinations behind the scenes. There are many more characters and subplots and historical allusions to a past not quite fleshed out than I can possibly have room for here. Suffice it to say that The Darkness That Comes Before is probably the War and Peace of the fantasy genre and might not ever be equaled. Not to be missed. And this is just the first volume of a series.	2005-04-11
US	47412112	R2RYXQUUY35BUS	0345428838	547341365	Star Wars, Episode III - Revenge of the Sith	Books	3	5	15	N	N	THE JEDI BECOME WHAT THEY HATE	Revenge of the Sith brings about the end of a saga that has occupied the mind of George Lucas for over 30 years. This novelization of the movie by Matthew Stover tries to bring together all the strands of plot from the prequel and make them into a symbiotic whole with the the second trilogy. While it succeeds more admirably than its sister episode, Return of the Jedi, this book is still an average affair at best, that will probably be a better movie than a read. <br /> <br />As Revenge of the Sith opens, the Seperatists have launched a daring raid on Coruscant, capturing Chancellor Palpatine. What ensues is a fierce battle in space that rapidly becomes a winner-take-all proposition between the Republic and its rebels. Obi-Wan and Anakin, returning from an off-planet mission take it upon themselves to rescue the captured champion of democracy. Even though Darth Sidious has orchestrated the whole dumbshow of an affair. But they will have to face Lord Dooku and the fearsome General Grievous, a cyborg whose body has been turned into a mechanical jedi killing machine, along with his bodyguards. Even if they win that battle, the Republic is still not safe. Anakin has been seeing horrible visions of the death of Padme, and these dreams will make him seek out knowledge, whether it be of the dark or light variety. Even as Anakin becomes closer to Palpatine, the Jedi Council grows ever more supicious of the Chancellor as he begins to take over more and more power from the democracy. And yes, we still have Darth Sidious looming out there somewhere, pulling the strings of everyone in a bid to become ruler of the galaxy.  <br /> <br />Well, I have to say, after reading the novel, this seems the best written episode since The Empire Strikes Back. At least the writer is TRYING to develop the characters a little more, even if they all seem a little shallow and ignorant. For example, after 10 years, the Jedi really haven't made any progress whatsoever in finding the Sith. They justseem so clueless. Anakin is still the whiny brat he's been since episode 1, but Stover does an admirable job at showing the conflicting loyalties he feels towards the Jedi Council and Palpatine, ALMOST. He also does a good job of showing the moral relativism of the dark side, meaning that in the Sith's eyes, there is not much difference in the ends between the Sith and the Jedi, simply the means used to arrive there. Even I found myself saying \\"that makes sense\\" about the dark side, \\"maybe it's not evil\\". But therein lies the seduction of it. The book focuses mainly on Obi-wan, Anakin, and Palpatine, with all the other characters, including Padme, taking minor roles. If you can't wait for the movie, I would recommend reading the book, but don't be prepared for excellence. If the Star Wars name wasn't on this book, it would probably be a one or two star review. For example, the opening space battle chews up around the first 130 pages of the book. In a regular sci-fi book a similar battle would take around 30 pages at the most. It is a glaring example of how 30 minutes of film can become a leviathan of description in print. Also, all of the characters are in such denial and are so full of stupidity that you're almost glad when the Republic falls. It's almost as if Darth Sidious is the most admirable character because he's the only one with a lick of intelligence.	2005-04-05
US	47412112	RWMTQA2MPF2DL	1591162149	507936035	Hot Gimmick, Vol. 1	Books	1	10	16	N	N	WEAKNESS BREEDS SLAVERY	16 year old Hatsumi Narita and her family live in a company housing project ruled over by Mrs. Tachibana, the wife of the most powerful executive of the corporation. Reputations are killed and made with the sleekness of her gossiping tongue. Her son, Ryoki, has had it in for Hatsumi since they were children growing up together. At least back then Hatsumi had a friend, Azusa Odagiri, to take up for her. Hatsumi's sister, Akane, has a problem which could cause her family great sorrow. She might be pregnant. When Ryoki finds out about it, he threatens to tell his mom unless Hatsumi becomes his slave! And just at that moment, Azusa comes back into her life. <br /> <br />Well, the problem I had with this manga was that it was just plain boring. The whole plot device of emotional blackmail has been done so many times and making it the main focus of this comic just made it old very fast. Hatsumi is one of the most weak-willed characters I've ever seen. Yeah, she's nice, but gullibility is not one of my favorite traits. Of course, if everyone said what was on their mind, this wouldn't be a shojo, would it? There's just no depth to these people. They all seem like rejects from 7th Heaven. The art is great, there's just nothing going on behind it except cliches.	2005-03-27
US	47412112	R3FP3DB1ENLW1R	1413902081	14569197	Tengai Retrogical Volume 1	Books	1	0	1	N	N	PUT THE KID BACK IN STASIS	When I first started reading Volume 1 of Tengai-Retrogical, I thought I was going to be in for an interesting treat. The setup had just the touch of realism that I need in a fantasy. Ryohei Mimori's widower dad comes in drunk one night and tells Ryohei that he has agreed to take over the management of a row house named Tengai-Ya from an old man he met in a bar. Ryohei is in a fury and even calls his dad an idiot. He decides to go look for the old man in Tengai-Ya and get an explanation from him. But he soons learns from his friend that Tengai-Ya is a strange place, with rumors of witchcraft and demons swirling about it. Supposedly, you have to be \\"chosen\\" to live there. How and by whom is another question. Little does he know that his visit to the rowhouse will have cosmic importance. <br /> <br />This manga had real potential with its gritty exposition and the buildup to entering Tengai-Ya is done quite well. The problem starts when when Ryohei arrives there. Then it's manga cliche after cliche. We get cute little girls who can alter the fate of the universe, an attractive older woman, and straight out of Disney's Beauty and the Beast, inanimate objects that can talk. And underneath it all is a deep religious theme. Oh boy.  <br /> <br />Made for 10 and younger crowd.	2005-03-20
US	47412112	R1XZGM4SM3FR1J	0974596159	823808181	Living Corpse (Hino Horror, 5)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	I'M FALLING TO PIECES	A man wakes up in a cemetary, having no knowledge of his identity or where he is. Stumbling upon some villagers, he is confused when they react to him in horror, screaming and running away, declaring that a monster is after them! He realizes what happened when he passes a mirror and sees his own visage for the first time. He is a hulking rotting corpse with dripping flesh and maggots falling out of his right eye. Captured by the police and handed over to some well-meaning but flabbergasted scientists, he is poked and prodded and unintentionally tortured in an attempt to reverse the process of his living death. And then they find a family portrait pendant in his stomach that just might give a clue to the living corpse's identity.  <br /> <br />Hideshi Hino wrote Living Corpse at a bad period in his life. He was suffering from some personal ailments which required him to be hospitalized. After he got out he could not take time to recuperate because he had a family to support so he had to go right back to making manga. At that time, thoughts of death went through his mind. Living Corpse is a horror story or persecution and ignorance of the workings of the universe, but underneath is the theme of love of one's family going beyond physical death. It's amazing that in one of Hino's worst times, he was still able to let that love overcome horrible circumstances. While Living Corpse at times wallows in melodrama, it's a good book.	2005-03-20
US	47412112	R7TXEA530UEZJ	1569311781	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 7: Angel of Chaos	Books	3	1	1	N	N	HOOKED UP WITH A FREAK	10 years have passed since Alita started on the trail of the mad scientist Desty Nova, hoping to find her \\"father\\" Dr. Ido. In order to get some clues she is seeking out the leader of Barjack, a gang of bandits who rule the wasteland under the direction of Den, a giant Godzilla sized mecha. She has help in the form of her Tipharean operator, Lou Collins, a young lady who would be challenged in operating a can opener, much less overseeing our deadly Battle Angel. She's also reunited with Koyomi, last seen as an infant who had been adopted by Alita's friends years ago. She's a tough young girl now, and has come to the desert to meet her idol, Kaos, a rogue radio broadcaster with ties to Barjack, who just happens to see Alita as his long-lost love.<br /><br />As always, the art in this, the sixth volume of Battle Angel Alita, is miles above most manga. The character of Alita has evolved beyond the infant/naivete and first love and loss. She has also grown out of the beserker fighter stage in which she forgot her problems through battle. In Angel of Chaos, she has come to the realization that she needs to use her powers to make the world a better place, and to help people. The problems I have with the story is the comic relief. I mean would you really put a bumbling klutz, Lou Collins, in charge of your most important agent. And the fact that Lou interacts with Alita through a super deformed hologram image who seems to be out the school of mini-cuteness doesn't help things.<br /><br />All in all, highly recommended. The Battle Angel Alita series is also being reprinted in the standard manga size at a cheaper price. Also check out Battle Angel Alita: Last Order, a sequel manga series, or more correctly, an alternate retelling of the story.	2005-03-20
US	47412112	R1OGS3IZ3VT6PI	1591162424	143373421	Alice 19th, Vol. 5: Jealousy	Books	3	5	7	N	N	DARKNESS IN THE FAMILY	Unable to take over the souls of Kyo and Alice, the dark forces of Darva and the Maram Masters instead target their friends and family. Enshrouded in evil, Mayura begins to be devoured by her powers, even as her minions take her form and inspire homicidal jealousy in Kyo's friend, Kazuki. You see, he loved Mayura, and fueled by Maram, he feels great anger because Kyo kicked her to the curb. So he sets out to hurt his two former friends.  <br /> <br />Alice 19th has always suffered from Yu Watase's inability to balance drama and humor. For instance, one of the characters dies and on the next page we have a super-distorted Alice in a scene of slapstick and then back to a tragic death in the next panel. Over and over in this series, moments of dramatic power have been undone and destroyed by Yu-Gi-Oh humor. It's a real shame because it keeps Alice 19th from achieving anything above the average. It's like having a song and dance number in Shindler's List at some points.	2005-03-05
US	47412112	R19XVWXY5ABZCM	1591162432	290412207	Alice 19th, Vol. 6: Blindness	Books	3	4	4	N	N	THE BLOOD FLOWS	Holed up in the Metropolitan Building skyscraper, Mayura seems to be coming back around to her real self. But it might be too late because the Master of Maram, Darva, is consuming her body at a frightening pace. Our heroes must make a last-ditch attempt to reach her inner heart before she is killed. Good thing that two new Lotis Masters have appeared on the scene to help them, the American Billy, and Mei Lin from China. They will still have to deal with Darva's minions and also their own inner demons as they struggle to reach Mayura before time runs out.  <br /> <br />This volume was more my speed because Watase's ill attempts at humor which tend to ruin her dramatic scenes are largely absent. There's also a little more blood and murder than in the other installments and less froo-froo. The highlight of \\"Blindness\\" has to be that we learn a little more of the pasts of some of the supporting characters. Watase says that she had originally planned to cover all of the characters but space demanded otherwise. It would have been a better series if she had.	2005-03-05
US	47412112	R13Z57DJHAFA1S	1595325840	953472946	Comic Party, Vol. 4	Books	3	1	1	N	N	THE TALKING HEAD	One of Kazuki's biggest fans at the comic conventions is Asahi Sakurai, but she also one of the shiest. Everytime she comes up to him, she can hardly stutter out a conversation. Who would ever guess that she is actually a pop idol, famous across the country for being a singer and radio personality. The only problem is that she can't talk very well unless she has a script in front of her. Maybe Kazuki can charge up her self-confidence? Related to this problem is Kazuki's friend and fellow doujinshi Aya Hasabe who is giving Kazuki an education on how to write original work instead of parodies. But after Eimi blasts her work for not appealing to the masses she too begins to suffer an identity crisis. Oh, the tragedies of shy girls! <br /> <br />Volume 4 of Comic Party is a good read for fans of anime and manga and really shows the inner workings of normal people struggling to become artists. It would be nice if we had this level of passion and oppurtunities to exhibit amateur work in America.  <br /> <br />I would also recommend the Comic Party anime, which is superior to the manga series.	2005-02-25
US	47412112	R1O8HT9ZVNN5SY	0140435530	109538284	Under the Greenwood Tree (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	15	18	N	N	CHOIR AND A PRETTY GIRL	Under the Greenwood Tree is Thomas Hardy's first Wessex novel, a world that rivals that of Balzac and Dickens, but instead of focusing on life in the city, Hardy instead focuses on the happenings of rural life. Dick Dewy doesn't have many prospects in life except his good looks. That is, until he meets the new female schoolteacher, Fancy Day, whose father is rumored to have a small fortune saved up for his beloved daughter when she gets married. That's not to say that's why Dick is attracted to her. It's love at first sight, for him, at least. There's other men interested in Fancy too, particularly, the prosperous Mr. Shiner, and even the local vicar, Mr. Maybold! It's up to Dick to convince Fancy that he is the man for her, while overcoming both her and her father's reservations that he's not quite in the same social class. Not to mention his own doubts of self-worth.  <br /> <br />Under the Greenwood Tree is a pretty straightforward early work by Thomas Hardy, the greatest English novelist. I maybe found it a little too simple, and the characters did not seem to be fleshed out very well. I didn't care much for Fancy, a woman who seemed caught up in her own vanity and whose love seemed to waver back and forth according to who asked for her hand in marriage, even though this is human nature. The local dialogue, as written by Hardy was a little hard to get used to, but you don't notice it after a while. This novel was sunnier in disposition than a lot of Hardy novels and should be seen as a work to be read by his fans, while the casual reader would be better served by his more famous titles.   <br /> <br />Other titles I would recommend by Hardy are Jude the Obscure, A Pair of Blue Eyes, Mayor of Casterbridge. Other titles with a similar pastoral settings are Harvest by Jean Giono, and Dreamers by Knut Hamsun.	2005-02-17
US	47412112	R18X6DZX6OXXRX	1569319782	907972293	Flowers and Bees, Vol. 1	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I'M WITH UGLY...BUT I DON'T WANNA BE!	Masao Komatsu is a high-schooler who is tired of never scoring or talking with the ladies. Or when they do talk to him, they just make fun of him and his pig-like friend, Yamada. And there's one girl in particular that has caught his eye, a teen model named Noriko. The problem is that she's way out of his league looks-wise. One day, by accident Masao encounters Noriko's boyfriend on the street and follows him into a salon called \\"World of Beautiful Men\\" run by some disturbingly effeminate hairdressers who vow to make him attractive. What ensues is a Frankenstein like story in which Komatsu will have to endure hair-stripping, eyebrow removal, sorry hair-cuts, servility, and humiliation all in the name of looking good. Aren't there already some reality TV shows like this?  <br /> <br />Beneath the bare-bones comedy of the whole situation, Moyoco Anno is pulling off a great satire. Why should it always be women who remake their features, who destroy their lives in order to obtain ideal beauty? Here's a guy who's willing to sacrifice anything to attract the opposite sex, to live up to the latest fads, and curry favors from the most desperate women. Anno does a good job of showing a boy who can no longer control his desires and suffers because he never realizes that beauty is just a projection from within. As Masao's looks begin to change, he might just regret that his wishes have been granted. <br /> <br />I would also recommend the manga Kare Kano and the anime His and Her Circumstances. Also the anime and manga of Azumanga Daioh.	2005-02-15
US	47412112	R1AYWZ9CD3OBD2	0811213218	1957091	Dreamers (New Directions Classics)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	SMALL VILLAGE CASANOVA TRIUMPHS	Ove Rolandson is what a modern audience would call a \\"playa\\". He goes around flirting with the factory girls, is the sire of a couple of illegitimate children, proposed to Elise Mack, the daughter of the local fish glue magnate, and become engaged to Olga, the sexton's daughter. And he also has an eye on the new curate's wife. As you can see, he has a lot on his plate. He's not quite the smooth operator that he wishes to be though. While working at the telegraph station and getting drunk and picking up chicks seems to be his only pasttimes, he harbors a secret desire to be an inventor and an entrepreneur. He is secretly experimenting on different methods of extracting fish glue from parts that others see as useless, that, if he can get them patented, could make him a competitor of Trader Mack, the boss of the town.  <br /> <br />Dreamers is lighter novel than Hamsun usually writes. It's basically a comic work. We have almost-murders, almost-affairs, almost-dirty dealings, but nothing ever brings the book down into the realm of \\"heavy\\" literature. It almost feels like a Shakespearean comedy such as Much Ado About Nothing. Nobody gets hurt in the end. At bottom, most of the characters here have a core of goodness that never lets the plot degenerate into tragedy.  <br /> <br />This was a good light read. For an example of more intense works by Hamsun, I would check out \\"Hunger\\" and \\"Pan\\", the latter novel showing how the same elements we find in \\"Dreamers\\" can be melded into something more primal and powerful. I would also recommend Shakespeare's comedies such as \\"Much Ado About Nothing\\" and \\"Love's Labor's Lost\\". Also, check out \\"Harvest\\" by Jean Giono for a similar take on a pastoral subject with more intensity.	2005-02-06
US	47412112	R1EGLP6FJI1LPW	1413900895	184844524	Aria Volume 3 (v. 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	FLOAT DOWNSTREAM	As Volume 3 of Aria opens, spring has come once again to Neo-Venezia as Akari marks the one year anniversary of her arrival on Aqua. The unthreatening anD peaceful adventures of this gentle manga continue as the girls make a new friend out of a rival Undine named Alice, and Akari and Miss Alicia travel to an island to get to Alicia's favorite resting spot. Aika also runs into some trouble when she runs away from her mentor, Ms. Akira (No relation to the mythical telekinetic psychotic), because she doesn't feel she's getting any respect. She would rather work with Ms. Alicia, who just happens to be a childhood friend of Akira. The manga concludes with the Festa del Boccolo, in which you're supposed to give a red rose to the woman that you love. Akari tries to help the love-stricken Akatsuki declare his feelings to Ms. Alicia (Does everyone's name start with \\"A\\"?) <br /> <br />I enjoy this series. As you can tell, there aren't any life threatening mecha or demons involved here. The story is as soft as a wind. Aria is more about mood than plot so it's a good series to read when you're stressed out, a massage for the spirit.  <br />	2005-02-04
US	47412112	R2NNNEWVIL3F4S	0743247566	830377354	For the Dogs: A Novel	Books	2	19	24	N	N	VIOLENT PACIFIST HITMAN SEEKS THE QUIET LIFE	20 year old English major Ella Hatto is on vacation in Italy with her boyfriend, Chris, when some gunmen attempt to kill her for no reason that she can fathom. Lucky for her that her dad had assigned a bodyguard, an ex-hitman named Lucas who came out of retirement as a favor, to shade her and protect Ella as necessary without her knowledge. Unknown to Ella, assassins have taken out her family back at home, and she just might be next. Ella can't figure it out, until Lucas informs her that their middle class lifestyle is just a ruse and that her dad has concealed that all these years he was a millionaire, and that he had come by this money through shady dealings. Could these executions be tied into some grudge from his past? Ella will have to stay alive to find out the answers, and death is always a possibility. <br /> <br />I have a lot of complaints about this novel. First of all, it has no surprises in it. You know pretty much where it's going before it gets there. The person behind the killings becomes apparent pretty early on, so why waste a hundred pages on it? Another thing is the characters. The sympathetic hitman who tries to get out of a business he despises has just been done so many times. Also, for a hitman, Lucas seems a little too flashy, assaulting college students and sticking guns in their face. That's really not the way to blend into the background. The attempt to make him a literary man, like having him remember his ex-girlfriend and thinking about Proust falls short too. Ella's slow descent into the dark side reeks of cheap tragedy. Plot-wise, the novel is very thin. It would probably make a great movie because it lacks any intelligence and is completely composed of stock characters. A very disappointing work.	2005-01-30
US	47412112	R21BH1FNW5167X	1591162416	780849133	Alice 19th, Vol. 4: Unrequited Love	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A WISH COMES TRUE	Well, Alice Seno should be on cloud nine in \\"Unrequited Love\\", the 4th volume of the engaging Alice 19th series by Yu Watase. Why, you may ask? Because the boy she loves, Kyo Wakamiya, has declared his love for her, choosing Alice over her sister Mayura. The problem is that Mayura, who, by the way, has been possessed by Darva, the greatest practicioner of the dark arts of the Mara, has put a curse on Kyo. This curse of hate will kill Kyo if Alice ever says she loves him back. As you can see, this might lead to some conflict. And things just get more difficult because Kyo and Alice are destined to become the Neo Masters, powerful Lotis Masters who will destroy the threat of the Mara once and for all. Meanwhile, Mayura has set herself up as the invisible ruler of the city, Akira-style, with the help of some fellow Mara masters, just as some new allies begin to arrive to aid our heroes.  <br /> <br />As you can tell, this has all the hallmarks of a arcane shojo manga: complicated love affairs, magic girls, and shouted generic attacks as they battle. But I like this series. Sue me. Because underneath, its really about all the tragedy that happens when people don't speak their hearts to others, mostly out of fear. If Alice had been straight up with her sister and Kyo from the beginning, none of the storyline would have happened (but then again, this series wouldn't exist). This volume was a little too heavy on the politics of love but it was still entertaining.	2005-01-28
US	47412112	RTMQBQYDMES3Y	086547124X	813368257	Harvest	Books	4	8	8	N	N	TWO SOULS SEARCHING FOR EACH OTHER	Originally published in 1930, this is an English translation by Henri Fluchere and Geoffrey Myers of Jean Giono's novel Harvest.  <br /> <br />The remote farming village of Aubignane has seen better days. As the generations have worn on, all its inhabitants have fled for greener pastures. The fields are barren and the houses and shops are an abandoned ghost town. Everyone is gone except for two people. One of them is Panturle, a 40 year old man who has reverted to a neanderthal hunter due to the squalid conditions of his delapidated environment. He delights in rending animal flesh and hearing the yelps of beasts caught in his traps. The only other inhabitant is Mameche, an old woman who recognizes what Panturle's problem is. He needs a woman to recivilize him. Mamache promises Panturle that she will leave Aubignane and return with a woman who will be his wife. While Mameche does not return, mysteriously enough, a woman named Arsule, who has been treated like a pack mule by Gedemus the knife grinder, shows up in the village. She is as lonely and sexually frustrated as Panturle, and their chance encounter might just lead to eternal love and rebirth of life in both them and the village.  <br /> <br />Harvest was an exquisitely written novel which blended the pastoral poetry of Theocritus and the hidden power of the Holy Bible. All that, and it had a happy ending too, something that is sorely lacking in contemporary fiction. The characters of Panturle and Arsule are primitive forces and purer humans than the lying race we have become. They tell each other what they truly need for their souls and lusts to be sated. At times I felt as though I were reading an adult lullaby, so seamless and pacifying is this novel. Great. Recommended.	2005-01-24
US	47412112	R3QUS01ZS7HTRT	1591826497	380527937	Ai Yori Aoshi, Vol. 5	Books	4	1	2	N	N	LOVE HOTEL ENCOUNTERS	Kaoru and Tina end up going to the zoo on their own, but due to a violent rainstorm, they miss their train to get back home. To pass the time, they enter a place called Animour, thinking that its a karaoke and arcade. To their surprise, they find out that it's really a love hotel! What will Aoi think of Kaoru if she finds out they stayed overnight there? On top of this, the spoiled rich girl, Mayu, gets a job as a maid in Aoi's house to learn how to cook for her future husband, Kaoru! <br /> <br />As usual, Ai Yori Aoshi continues its charming tale of love with a lot of humor inflected into it. With the addition of Mayu into the Aoi household, this series is dangerously close to entering Love Hina harem comedy. It would be unfortunate if it continues down that road.	2005-01-23
US	47412112	RFWSTMD7U2QWQ	0756400430	169918572	In Conquest Born (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	RACE WAR	Most of the known universe has been divided between two constantly warring races. On one side you have the Braxins, who are ruled by the perfect warriors known as the Kaim'era, a ruling class bred to love battle and sensuality. Then you have the Azeans, a Vulcan-like race that has genetically modified itself over the years to deal with the harsh environment of its homeworld. The book opens with the birth of its two main characters, Zatar, a Kaim'era who will one day try to wrest control of the Braxin Empire from its decadent and ineffective leadership. In order to prove himself, Zatar infiltrates an Azean planet to assasinate one of their their most notorious interrogators. He succeeds in killing Darmel Tukone and his wife, but also makes a new enemy. The daughter of the couple, Azha, survives and is taken in by the Institute, an conglomerate of scientists who ferment psychic powers in the talented few in order to take mankind to the next level of evolution. They implant a deadly and tragic agenda in Azha's unconscious mind to exploit her hate of all things Braxin. As Zatar rises in the chain of command, Azha also rises in the Azean ranks, setting up the stage for a war that will be more like a personal vendetta. <br /> <br />While I focused on the two main characters in this review, there are backstories and subplots that could take up a novel of their own contained within this novel. I was reminded over and over of Dune by Frank Herbert as I read this work. Not because it was derivative, but because Conquest was so inventive and rich. There is no minor character that feels unfinished or ignored. All the characters have a rich history and an important part to play. The worlds that Friedman has dreamed up remind me of Tolkien in that they are well thought out and seem to have their own cultures and myths. I really enjoyed this novel. It is a cut above most sci-fi and belongs among the elite of that genre. The only complaint I have about it is that the closing section of the book is a little lackluster.  <br /> <br />I would also recommend Dune by Frank Herbert.	2005-01-20
US	47412112	R22TH1EBGXJUA1	0974596108	645985052	1: The Red Snake (Hino Horror, 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A MESSED UP FAMILY	The Red Snake is the first volume in the Hino Horror series put out by Cocoro Books, celebrating the achievements of Hideshi Hino, the master of Japanese horror manga. I don't know if I would actually called this first volume horror or a disturbing meditation on suffering, death, and abnormality. Oh yeah, that's what horror is! <br /> <br />The narrator of this tale is a young boy desperately trying to escape his home that is surrounded by a dense forest. Everytime he tries to leave, the forest somehow always mysteriously makes him wind up back at his house. Why does he want to escape? If you only knew! For starters, his grandmother is insane and believes she is a chicken, even eating bugs and living in a nest she constructed from sticks. His grandfather has an enormous cyst or pus-filled growth on his chin the size of a bowling pin. The kid's father is psychotic who raises chickens. Innocent enough, but if the chickens don't produce eggs, the father decapitates them. The mother's main job in the house is to massage the grandfather's giant size abscess by rubbing it with an egg and even stepping on it with her foot to lance it.  <br />And then we have the kid's sister, who has a perverse obsession with bugs. On top of this cheerful set-up, there is a hallway in the house blocked by a mirror, behind which the grandfather says lurks abominable horrors. Like the house isn't filled with horrors already! When the narrator ventures behind the mirror in a dream, he finds that things can always get worse! <br /> <br />Some of the images in this book made me almost not want to turn the page. But hey, that's what horror is for! To show you things you want to turn away from but feel compelled to look at. Hino does a good job of creating an alternate world somewhere in the depths of Hell akin to Dante's Inferno. If you're in the mood for a creepy story, check this out.	2005-01-18
US	47412112	RMSQJMRXCYC1R	1591162300	883164003	Alice 19th, Vol. 3: Chained	Books	4	5	5	N	N	GET MAYURA	Alice Seno is in an awkward position as Kyo and Frey move in with her because her mother is in the hospital after a Mara attack, and her father has disappeared on a business trip. Is he cheating on her mom or what? Or is it something even more sinister, involving her sister Mayura, who is also missing, caught in the clutches of the evil Mara? In Volume 3 of Alice 19th, entitled \\"Chained\\", our three heroes, along with the bunny guide, Nyozeka, venture into the Inner Heart to find Mayura and Alice's father. We also learn of the origin of the Lotis Words and the Mara, and the Lotis Masters that fight against them.  <br /> <br />This shojo should appeal to both sexes, seeing as how it has relistic relationships and unsentimental action. The only thing I disliked about this volume was that in some scenes of seriousness, out of the blue, Watase inserts slapstick humor that totally ruins the mood of some of its most intense scenes. I'm all for humor in minor scenes, but not in major turning points where a character's life is being threatened.  <br /> <br />I would also recommend the anime series Escaflowne and His and Her Circumstances.	2005-01-16
US	47412112	R29TR6PKBAA2NA	0152017976	756598658	Elidor	Books	1	1	12	N	N	A LITTLE TOO VAGUE	While the four Watson children, Roland, Nicholas, David, and Helen are exploring a bombed out section of London, they are transported to the other dimensional world of Elidor. Upon arriving there, the kids are enlisted by Malebron the King to take back the Four Treasures: a spear, a sword, a stone, and a cauldron, to our world. It seems that the four cities of Elidor were constructed to guard these Treasures, but a darkness has come upon the land, and only one city still stands. The problem is that dark forces might come hunting for them, even in London. <br /> <br />While mildy entertaining and a trifle scary at the outset as the children have to deal with the unknown, the book gradually settles into an unsatisfying first draft of a tale. I say this because nothing is ever revealed. We never have an idea of who or what the darkness is that is threatening Elidor. We have no idea what the Four Treasures true power is. I mean, what was so important about them? We never find out who Malebron really is. I'm so sick of these storylines where the heroes are kept in the dark and some magical figure gives them a quest or task to complete but never tells them exactly how to do it or resorts to talking in riddles. I mean just say what you want these kids to do instead of babbling every time you talk to them! Oh yeah, and a unicorn shows up, having a power and significance that is never explained. There is just too much vagueness working against this novel for it to succeed. The parts in London when shadow figures start haunting the kid's house is pretty good, but that's about all there is here. Sorry book.	2004-12-05
US	47412112	R1TGSHSQJ0FMJH	0689859376	755887514	The Seeing Stone	Books	3	0	1	N	N	THE ALL SEEING EYE	In book one of The Spiderwick Chronicles, the brownie Thimbletack had warned the Grace kids to destroy their ancestor's Field Guide to the Fantastical World Around You. He told them that as long as it existed it would lead to bad events, but since when have children even listened to wisdom? Sure enough, as Jared is looking out the window of Arthur Spiderwick's study, he sees his brother being assaulted by invisible goblins and forcibly taken into the forest. How will Jared and Mallory be able to save Simon if they can't even see what they're fighting against? Thimbletack reveals that he can lead them to a seeing stone which will allow them to see the unseen. But will the two kids be able to find their brother before he becomes a monster's dinner? And there are worse things than goblins wandering the woods... <br /> <br />This second volume wasn't as interesting to me as the first. The thing that I liked about Volume 1 was the sense of mystery and fear. In volume 2, we get into full-fledged fantasy with goblins and trolls and griffins etc., and the book becomes more of a magical tale than a mystery. It's still a recommended read but I thought the magical beings were better when they were mysterious and invisible.  <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-03
US	47412112	R34S97XWIGQ3FM	0156278065	252798659	Eden (Helen & Kurt Wolff Book)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	TAKE ME TO YOUR LEADER....UH, PLEASE?	Instead of just making a fly-by of an unexplored earth atmosphere planet named Eden, a six-man crew spaceship crashlands with no hope of rescue. Lem doesn't even deign to give the characters proper names. Instead, in a Kafkaesque manner, they are simply called The Captain, The Chemist, The Engineer, The Physicist, the Cyberneticist, and The Doctor. It's not really clear to me why he chose this method, unless he wanted the universal everyman or stereotype of each profession. Who knows? The first problem the crew has to face is just getting out of the ship since the main hatch is resting underground and the only other exit has been flooded with radioactive water. It doesn't seem like they can contact anyone off planet either, and it will be impossible to move the ship without powering up robots. But one of the crew does seem to remember seeing a city before they crashed, and so the crew sets out on foot. They do find alien lifeforms and structures, but what results is the usual violence that humans seem to display when enveloped in fear and the unknown. The crew expects to be attacked or to be greeted by the inhabitants, but what happens when the natives act as if they're not even there? <br /> <br />Lem does a good job of portraying the aliens in his fiction as aliens. In works by other sci-fi writers, extraterrestrials seem to be humans in green skins, or animals with longer teeth. As he did in Solaris, the author hits the theme that like mortals comprehending God, humans would have an impossible time figuring out the behavior and mentality of a truly alien species. Yes, vastly different civilizations have collided through time on Earth, but what would happen if we truly faced and ALIEN consciousness? The crew in this book make the same mistakes we would make. Namely, comparing and contrasting alien behavior and buildings to human models. Of course, this leads to many wrong conclusions in Eden, even leading to death for some.  <br /> <br />I think in the end Lem lets me down simply because there are some explanations of the Edenites behavior, and these explanations are ideas that humans could have. I guess no human can truly write a realistic encounter with an alien race simply because a human mind cannot think like a non-human mind. Well, maybe a flying saucer will land in my backyard tomorrow and I'll write a book about it.  <br /> <br />If you liked this book I would highly recommend Rendezvous with Rama by Arthur C. Clarke.	2004-11-28
US	47412112	R1WVRZEACJGLD9	0689859368	904663340	The Field Guide	Books	4	3	3	N	N	STRANGE HARASSMENTS	The constantly ignored and underappreciated Jared Grace, his amateur animal expert twin brother Simon, and their slightly older fencing sister have moved into a decrepit Victorian style house with their mother after a messy divorce. They've been allowed to stay in the former residence of their great-aunt Lucinda, whose current domicile is in an insane asylum. From the get-go Jared senses something amiss with the old house when he hears a scuttling within its walls, as though a small animal were moving about in them. After finding the nest of some sort of creature within the walls, a nest which appears to be made by something intelligent, with newspaper clippings and cockroaches strung on a line, well, let's just say the mystery deepens. And what's a tale in ruined house like this without secret passages and rooms. It's all here. Something seems to be angry at the children and begins to take it out on them. Maybe a book Jared found in the attic called \\"Arthur Spiderwick's Field Guide to the Fantastical World Around You\\" will help them find out who or what is venting its rage at the kids. <br /> <br />This first of a projected series of five books for children 6-10 years old is a recommended read. It has an exciting plot and some suspense and some little scares, such as when Jared is winched up by his brother and sister in a dumbwaiter in pitch blackness with something hammering on the top of it, trying to get in. It has funny bits, and the fact that the family's father left them adds emotional depth for older readers.  Book I throws in a little mystery and deduction as the kids, especially Jared, try to find out what is going by using clues left by an unknown hand. This was a fun book for the young and the young at heart.	2004-11-28
US	47412112	R1KHVB5X1TTLUT	0441012159	898196045	The Nimble Man: The Menagerie #1	Books	3	4	6	N	N	HORROR NOVEL X-MEN	For some reason, when I read the back of this book and looked at the cover, I thought it was a ripoff of The League of Extraordinary Gentelmen or more likely of Hellboy. Thankfully, I've only been exposed to one of the aforesaid titles so I could enjoy this novel.  <br /> <br />Mr. Doyle is an extremely long-lived sorceror who in times of a mystical threat to the Earth, summons together a band of occult beings/superheroes to battle against evil. There's Eve, the original wife of Adam who also happens to be the mother of all vampires. She's changed her tune though since she wants to get into Heaven. So Eve has made it her mission to destroy every single one of her progeny. Clay is an immortal shapeshifter that can assume the form of any living thing and of a few that God threw in the trash heap of Creation. Squire is the standard midget sized wise cracking hobgoblin who reminds one of the character Leprechaun who can traverse the ways of shadow. Dr. Leonard Graves is a disembodied spirit with one foot of ectoplasm on our dimension and one in the spirit world who advises the Menagerie and also searches for his own murderer.  <br /> <br />As The Nimble Man opens, the Menagerie is trying to track down Doyle's mentor, Lorenzo Sanguedolce, the most powerful sorceror that ever lived, who has been missing for a hundred years. Doyle has learned that evil forces are after Lorenzo to use his power for their dark plans. It's imperative that the forces of light reach them first.  <br /> <br />I liked this novel in a comic book tongue in cheek type of way. I mean you can't take things too seriously when the character Eve, who has seen the face of God, and bears half the responsibility of our exile from Eden, is obsessed with fashion, and of buying the best clothes, and wanting to be sexy. I mean, really, after a millenia of immortality and creating vampires, would the mother of all life really be interested in following the current fads in fashion? And a lot of the bad guys and girls seem to have an affinity with black leather and sunglasses a la The Matrix. I mean when did all this dominatrix/gimp wear become cool?  Bring out the whips!  <br /> <br />I really felt that the authors should have just put costumes on these people and just been honest that this is a straight up dark superhero novel. I did think that a long lost love plotline of Doyle's past was well-done as he has to seek the help of Ceridwen, a fairy princess. I thought the characters were well crafted and seemed realistic, except for Eve and Clay. I just think that immortals would act a lot less human, and be a little more wiser about the world, more like the Elves in The Lord of the Rings than characters in Buffy.  <br /> <br />All in all, it was a good read. Would probably make a good movie.	2004-10-31
US	47412112	RGIGY8CP6BXM	0974596116	259051878	2: The Bug Boy (Hino Horror, 2)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	BEING DIFFERENT=PERSECUTION	Hideshi Hino is considered a master of Japanese horror manga, with over 150 of his graphic novels in print. Now we in America are able to appreciate his genius of the macabre as Coroco Books is printing translations of his works like mad. They're putting them out so fast, it's hard to keep up with the expense of buying them. I think they're printing the 13th and 14th volumes as I write this.  <br /> <br />The Bug Boy is about a young elementary school boy named Sanpei Hinomoto. Sanpei has always been a sickly child and has never measured up to his brother and sister intellectually. He is hated at school by the students and faculty and his parents think he is good for nothing too, even to the point of physically abusing him. The only joy he gets out of life is spending time at the garbage dump where he has constructed a second home underneath the rubbish. He considers this place a paradise because he keeps a menagarie of pets there:dogs, cats, birds, even a couple of rats that he loves and feels accepted by. He also likes to play with anything slimy and icky such as caterpillars, which get him in trouble at school.  <br /> <br />One day, after suffering years of inhuman abuse from every \\"human\\" being around him, he gets sick and throws up. What comes out of his puke is a large centipede-looking insect. When it stings him, it starts a metamorphosis in Sanpei that will isolate him further from the world, as he finds himself transforming into the likeness of the bug that bit him. What follows is a sad tale of loneliness, madness, and murder.  <br /> <br />In the end, this book was about the cruelty of society. Everybody already knows that those who are different and strange are persecuted, especially in the early school years, when children have yet to form a moral system. Bug Boy reminded me a lot of Frankenstein by Mary Shelley in that Sanpei is driven to murder because there is not a single person or animal that cares about him in the world. The drawings which seem comical at first quickly transform your feelings to horror and sadness. Don't worry, Sanpei will find what find what he is looking for, he just won't find it here on Earth in this life.  <br /> <br />If you liked this book I would also recommend the novel Frankenstein by Mary Shelley.	2004-10-10
US	47412112	R1FZ81L7622U6A	1569310491	386722743	Battle Angel Alita,  Vol. 2: Tears of an Angel (Viz Graphic Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	FOR LOVE	In this second poignant volume of Battle Angel Alita, Alita falls in love with a young street urchin named Hugo. Hugo's dream is to make enough money to move to Tiphares, the mid-air city where all your dreams can come true. Unknown to Alita, Hugo is making his money by assaulting and stealing body parts from cyborgs, a crime punishable by death. A character from the first volume, Zapan, who was humiliated by Alita, finds out about Alita's feelings for Hugo and begins to conspire a plot that will destroy Alita's heart. Will Alita's next bounty be Hugo? <br /> <br />This manga was fantastic. While I compared Battle Angel Alita to Ghost in the Shell in my review of the first volume, there really isn't a comparison. Alita operates in a more savage world, where laws don't function unless bounty hunters enforce them. It is a place where your fellow man will let you die on the street without lifting a finger. It's such a horrible world that Alita's love stands out in even starker contrast to the evil that surrounds her. Yes, there are scenes of \\"ultra-violence\\" but what makes that different from our world? The thing I like about Alita is that there are horrible scenes of graphic violence but there are also scenes of philosophic thought and tenderness. Just like real life. Horrible beauty.	2004-09-12
US	47412112	R3F5A95L13A8NV	1569310033	99793243	Battle Angel Alita, Vol. 1: Rusty Angel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	GRIM GRITTY AND SEXY	Well, for fans of Ghost in the Shell, there is another beautiful cyborg toughgirl and her name is Battle Angel Alita. Below the floating city of Tiphares, where the elite live, lies the Scrap Yard. It is composed of a massive junk heap of robot parts and other castoff machinery and a city serving as a junk heap of humanity. There is no longer a police force patrolling the streets so law enforcement, or more correctly, the killing of criminals is done by bounty hunters out to make a buck.  <br /> <br />Daisuke, a robot scientist,  is sifting through the scrapyard and comes across the battered head of a cyborg with its braincase still functional. He gradually rebuilds her body but her mind has been wiped clean of memory. So he gives her the name Alita to give her an identity she can call her own. During an encounter with a rogue mutant, Alita instinctively displays fighting skills only found in the top warrior cyborgs.  <br /> <br />Failing to have any other role model than Daisuke, who moonlights as a bounty hunter, Alita too wishes to hunt criminals. Even though Daisuke forbids it, Alita chooses to do it because she wants to prove she has her own freewill. Plus, she feels as though she were made for the job. She will have her first great challenge in the form of the hulking, brain-eating, and insane Makaku, a cross between the Hulk and Satan.  <br /> <br />Yes, Battle Angel Alita is beautifully drawn and has lots of action. But it has deep underlying themes under its skin. Alita has a lot of sass and does the things she does to show that she has freedom. She fights to have a purpose. She says that being a bounty hunter lets her search for her identity through battle. I doubt that in the end this method of inquiry will yield anything. At least she's making choices, be they wrong or right. Kishiro does a good Shakespearean twist by making all of the characters complex and never really judging them for good or evil. Even Makaku has some sympathetic traits even if he isa murdering monster. This is not to say that the action isn't handled well. In fact, Kishiro draws the most coherent action sequences that I've ever seen in a manga. I highly recommend Battle Angel Alita to mature readers and those readers who like a little brains with their brawn.	2004-09-12
US	47412112	R2QPRXWWDQA2FR	0345470451	952753917	Gundam SEED Vol. 1: Mobile Suit Gundam (Mobile Suit Gundam Seed)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	ENEMY OR FRIENDLY FIRE, I GIVE UP	I tried to read this manga before I saw the anime and promptly put it down again. It was set up too much like an anime to work as a manga. After I watched the first volume of the anime and enjoyed it, I decided to give the manga another try. I was not impressed even then. <br /> <br />In the future, mankind has split into two distinct factions. In order to colonize space, humans genetically modified some of its members, making them smarter and stronger than normal humans. Along the way, the genetically enhanced became known as \\"Coordinators\\" and spent most of its time constructing space station colonies. Those left on Earth and others who didn't mess with their DNA became known as \\"Naturals\\". Over time, the Naturals became envious and suspicious of the Coordinators and in the event called the Bloody Valentine war broke out between the two forces of the Naturals' Earth Alliance and the Coodinators' forces, called ZAFT. While Earth has more resources and manpower, the war has continued for eleven months due to the enhanced abilities and superior technology of the Coordinators.  <br /> <br />The Earth Alliance wants to bring about a change in this stalemate by manufacturing Mobile Gundam Suits which are superior even to the Coordinators technology. ZAFT has found out about their existence and is determined to either capture the suits or destroy them. So they send a strike team to the satellite colony of Heliopolis. The problem is that the colony is officially neutral and has no knowledge of the suits being made. So they are in for a rude awakening as to the realities of war. <br /> <br />Kira Yamato is a young industrial college student who wants no part of the war but finds himself the only person able to pilot the new mobile suit for the Earth Alliance. He isn't fighting on any side but simply to protect his friends and the people of Heliopolis, his home. Unfortunately, his best friend, Arthrun, is fighting for ZAFT and they just might have to meet again in battle.<br /> <br />While I enjoyed the anime, I did not enjoy this manga. Without color, it is hard to tell which Gundam is which because they all look basically the same. The humans themselves are pretty indistiguishable too and it makes for a lot of confusion. How can there be suspense or excitement during a battle when you can't even tell who is who? Also, the manga jumps around a lot from setting to setting between panels so you feel disoriented. While this may work in anime, it doesn't work in manga where flow is more important than cuts. If I had not seen the anime first I would not have been able to tell the boys from the girls in the manga. I would recommend not even picking up this manga. Check out the anime!	2004-09-08
US	47412112	R22DOKI5BHBYBZ	1591163366	873648155	Mermaid Saga, Vol. 1	Books	5	7	8	N	N	WELL WRITTEN CLASSIC	Men and women seek out the flesh of mermaids because it is said that if you eat it, you will be granted immortality. Of course, what they don't know is that there is also a chance of instant death, or even worse, of being changed into a horrible ghoul. Yuta learned this centuries ago when he and some of his fellow fisherman, curious to see if the legends were true, decided to eat the flesh of a mermaid. While some of his comrades died instantly, others changed into soulless beasts. Only Yuta was given the gift or curse of eternal life. Yuta doesn't want it. He wants to grow old and die like normal people. So he sets out on a quest to find more mermaids because he has been told that only a mermaid can reveal to him how he can become a mortal man again.  <br />  <br /> During his wanderings he comes upon a village of murderous old hags who seem to have mermaids living among them. You see, they can also change into human form and walk on land. He learns that they are keeping a young girl named Mana imprisoned there her whole life and have fed her mermaid flesh for some dark reason, making her immortal too. It's up to Yuta to figure out some way to save both their lives.  <br />  <br /> The second story in the book is a flashback to an earlier period in Yuta's life when he encounters some bloodthirsty pirates out to catch a mermaid for the sly wife of their chief. Left for dead, Yuta is found by a rival but much more civilized pirate clan and a love story develops between him and their defacto female leader. <br />  <br /> The last story in the volume, &quot;Mermaid Forest&quot; takes us back to contemporary times with Yuta and Mana. Mana, not knowing about automobiles and such because she has been a captive all her life, walks in front of a truck and is taken in by a nefarious doctor in the employ of a family who owns &quot;Mermaid Forest&quot;, on whose grounds, a mermaid is alleged to be buried. <br />  <br /> This was a very well-written manga. I wouldn't say it wasfor kids because it has a lot of gore and more than a little nudity. There's a thread of sadness through the storyline when you realize that Yuta and Mana are truly alone in the world. I don't really get Yuta though. He has a chance to stay with the queen of the pirates but refuses simply because he doesn't want to settle down in one place. If he lives forever, what's wrong with living out a life with someone you love? This manga had a lot of elements to it: horror, love story, and adventure. Be warned that Volume 1 does leave you hanging at the end on a cliffhanger.  <br />  <br /> I would also recommend Highlander on dvd. Also, similar themes are dealt with in Interview With a Vampire novel and movie.	2004-08-02
US	47412112	R3VJI3THPT4GVX	1931514542	418650581	Marmalade Boy, Vol. 1	Books	2	1	3	N	N	A MESSED UP BRADY BUNCH?	I've heard of some weird concepts coming out of Japanese manga and anime, and Marmalade Boy is no different. Miki Koishikawa, a first year high school student, is in the unenviable situation of hearing that her parents are getting a divorce. The reason why they're getting the divorce is the kicker. Miki's parents went away on vacation to Hawaii and while they were there, they met another couple, named the Matsuuras. Both couples fell in love with each other and their original partners became just friends. So anyway, they decide to husband and wife swap. They decide to get divorces and remarry each other. Not only that, they want to move into one house together and live in a sorta twisted communal dysfunctional zone. Only, it doesn't seem weird to them and they get along great. It's Miki that's the problem. Why can't the two couples see how crazy their ideas are? Things get worse when the Matsuura's kid, Yuu, a handsome boy of Miki's own age, seems to think that the double divorce/double marriage is ok.  <br /> <br />So most of the first volume is spent on the premise and Miki's attempts to come to terms with what is ultimately out of her control, her parent's behavior. She also is attracted to Yuu, but all he seems to do is get on her nerves. Also complicating things is the fact that Yuu is transferring to her school. There's also former love interests of Yuu and Miki stirring up the pot at the same time.  <br /> <br />I wasn't really impressed with this manga. It did have a couple of funny moments, but nothing laugh out loud hilarious. It also seemed a little too cutesy at times for me. The art is pretty good, but the dialogue and the situations left me a little bored. To me the premise seemed a little creepy actually. To me, it was about on a level with Saved by the Bell.	2004-07-31
US	47412112	R23X9I3ZZKVJ1H	0140443002	308407895	The Nun (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	THE CRYING NUN	Strangely enough, The Nun started out as a practical joke in 1760. A particularly pious and kind friend of Diderot's, named the Marquis de Croismare, had retired from Parisian life to his country estate and his friends really started to miss his presence. So they hatched a plot to force him to come back to the city. Two years previously, the Marquis had become involved with the case of a real-life nun who wished to renounce her vows and get out of her convent. The Marquis was one among many enlightened patrons who tried to help her, but in the end the nun never got out of the convent. <br />Diderot, hoping to play on this previous incident, made up an imaginary nun named Suzanne Simonin who wished to renounce her vows after being forced to take vows by her parents. Through forged letters sent through an intermediary, Diderot played this woman's tragedy up in an effort to get the Marquis to come back to Paris. It did not succeed and Diderot was forced to kill off the fake nun through his correspondance to end the joke. It turns out that the idea of the suffering Suzanne had taken such hold of Diderot that he decided to write an entire novel about her life. <br />The Nun by Denis Diderot purports to be the memoirs of one Suzanne Simonin, a young and beautiful former nun who is writing to the Marquis de Croismare in order to obtain financial aid and employment. Suzanne was forced to become a nun by her parents, particulary her mother. The reason is that Suzanne was born of an affair that her mother had on the side, not by her husband. While the husband hasn't said anything outright about it, you can tell that he's almost 100% sure that Suzanne isn't his child. Suzanne's sisters are more than happy for Suzanne to go because it means they won't have to split their parent's estate even further when they die. Suzanne's mother even tells her daughter that Suzanne's becoming a nun will make up for her sins and allow her mother to go to Heaven. If she refuses, she will probably suffer damnation. <br />After trying to get out of her promise Suzanne ends up at a convent run by a very kind nun, and is able to tolerate the days as they go by. After the Superior dies, Sister Sainte-Christine takes over and Suzanne's fortunes become bleaker. You see, things like religion run very well, until someone starts rocking the boat. Everyone knows that Suzanne doesn't want to be there and when she becomes rebellious, she becomes the convent pariah and suffers tremendous mental tortures as the Superior tries to make her conform to her idea of purity. <br />The theme of the book is that you don't have to be particularly religious to be a good person. I mean, these people in the book spend all their time trying to make Suzanne a pious nun but she is ALREADY a good person. When her Superior tries to bust a move on her in the bed, she has no idea that she is being seduced. It's almost like she is a child even though she's 20 years old. <br />Diderot is complaining about this notion that young women and men have been forced into the religious life, regardless of their own wishes. There's nothing wrong with choosing that path, if you are suited to it. As you can tell from the recent Catholic Church scandal in America, some people join the clergy for the wrong, even sinister, reasons. Witness the third Superior that Suzanne is almost seduced by, who preys on the young nuns of her convent, taking them to her bed and dropping them after her lust wears off. Diderot thinks that immoral acts will occur when humans are put in situations that deny their natural desires, whether it be for freedom or sex.	2004-07-20
US	47412112	RO5HCX4149Y65	0140122060	635888605	Paris Trout (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	SOME THINGS NEVER CHANGE	Paris Trout is about a murder of a young black girl, the utter of absence of morals in the killer, and the hypocrisy of a white town which almost doesn't want justice to be done to him. Set in an inbred town in Georgia, Paris Trout is a shopkeeper who has his hands in a lots of other business, such as loan sharking and auto sales. He sells a car to a young black man, Henry McNutt, vastly escalating the sale by adding &quot;insurance&quot; to it. After Henry becomes involved in a car wreck, he comes to Trout demanding that it be fixed because the accident was covered by his insurance. In the following dispute, Henry leaves the car and says he's not going to pay on the car anymore. After repeated warnings to pay, Paris Trout shows up at the McNutt residence with a former cop that had been kicked off the force for abusing black citizens. Not finding Henry there, they proceed to get involved in a situation with his mother and her children. Guns are drawn by Paris and the ex-officer and Henry's mother and a young girl living with the family are shot. The rest of the novel is about the aftermath of the killing, in which Paris believes he was justified because he was owed money.<br />Harry Seagraves, a lawyer who recognizes Paris' guilt, but feels he is obligated to the decadent aristocracy of the town, decides to take over Paris' defense. Everyone in the town knows Paris is guilty, but are reluctant to see a white man go down for the killing of a black girl. The question is, will the town overcome its inherent racism and see justice done? Ward Townes, an honest county attorney takes over the prosecution. <br />This was a good novel. It really exposes what many people already knew about certain parts of the South. You basically had some good people who knew about injustices being done to the blacks but were so ingrained with racial biases that they couldn't see blacks as equals. A murder could be bought and paid for and even lynchings could be done and noone searched thathard for the killers. This book reminded me of Crime and Punishment, in that even people without consciences can be haunted and driven mad by their crime. I did feel the closing parts of the book were not executed very well. This book won the National Book Award and should appeal to anyone that enjoys all the lawyer shows on TV at the moment like Law and Order.	2004-07-11
US	47412112	R2S02ZKTGMSFPD	0060735376	592343874	AVP: Alien vs. Predator: The Movie Novelization	Books	1	0	7	N	N	LET ME BORE YOU TO DEATH	Ok, I wasn't expecting that much from this book, after all it was a novelization based on a screenplay based on a story based on the Alien characters based on the Predator characters or some other Biblical lineage list which is now a major motion picture. I thought instead of waiting for the movie, I could just get the book. If the movie is anything like the book, it is going to be a boring bomb!!!  It takes about 150 pages before the main characters even encounter the Aliens or the Predators!! Almost half the book!!<br />After establishing that the Predators and Aliens have been fighting each other for about 4000 years, by showing a battle in 2000BC Cambodia and that they also hunted them at the South Pole in 1904, we flash forward to the present day. The billionaire owner of Weyland Industries has discovered what looks like a pyramid complex underneath the ice at the South Pole. Like the billionaire in Jurassic Park, Weyland begins to assemble a team of archaeologists, scientists, and adventurers to go to the site to find out what the truth is. Now, supposedly, these people are experts.<br />Take, for example, Sebastian De Rosa, an archaeologist, whose claim to fame is that the Great Pyramids in Egypt were not built by the Egyptians. He theorizes that they were built by an even older civilization, even though in real life, we can carbon date such things and know that his theory is hogwash. Also, lets take Alexa Woods, a supposed mountain climber, who, as we are introduced to her climbing up the side of the most perilous face of Mount Everest, stops to answer her cell phone and have a conversation as she's hanging on for her life. It gets worse. There's 24 people on the team that goes to investigate the pyramid. Most of them aren't even given names, just referred to as &quot;scientist&quot; or &quot;engineer&quot; so we know most of them are going to die. I mean, that's really what all this is leading up to. I mean, why invest in the movie's characters or plot if you know all it's leading up to is that these people are going to be trapped in the pyramid and killed off in an extraterrestrial version of Scream? <br />So anyway, the Predators, who are in cryogenic hibernation on their ship on the dark side of the moon are awoken by their ship as the research team nears the pyramid complex. I mean, what do they do, just sleep for a hundred years until somebody comes near their pyramid? That's kinda an inefficent way of doing things. <br />Oh well, when you finally do get to page 200 or so (if you make it that far), and finally see the battle between an Alien and a Predator, it reminds one of WWE wrestling more than anything else. The Alien shows emotion and it goes something like &quot;Alien jumps Predator, punches him with tail, bites, and stuff, throws him, etc.&quot; (paraphrased). The predators come off as real dummies. For all their hardware, they seemed to be picked off just as easily as the humans. <br />This book was awful. To me, the thing that made the first Alien movie good was the very fact that the Alien was ALIEN! Its actions were primal and it didn't really have any goals other than killing. It was a true horror movie. The subsequent movies and this book has demystified the Alien concept and made him/it into a commercial commodity for cheap scares much like Freddy Krueger or Jason who have lost any capacity to cause true horror. Even the Predator had some credibility as an enigmatic mostrosity until he hooked up with Danny Glover. In fact sadly, this book devolves into a Lethal Weapon premise at the end. I know this movie is being hyped a lot but I predict based on the book that it might have a big opening weekend and then it will bomb.	2004-07-11
US	47412112	R2U8J7RGDPJQFT	0671318411	492552666	A Hymn Before Battle (Posleen War Series #1)	Books	3	5	9	N	N	A TAD TOO MUCH PEACE, A LITTLE WAR	We have finally made contact with alien lifeforms in the year 2001. Thankfully, the aliens, calling themselves the Galactic Federation, are peaceful. Maybe too peaceful. They've made contact with us for a reason. As their Federation was expanding, they ran into a vicious warrior race called the Posleen. The Posleen are kinda like the Borg in Star Trek. Except they don't assimilate other species, they EAT them!!! The problem is that the races in the Federation are all pacifists and are unwilling or uncapable of bloodshed. They want earthlings, with our bloodthirsty DNA to fight the Posleen. They provide incentive by telling us that the Earth will be attacked by the Posleen within 4 years. The Feds will supply us with equipment, battleships, advanced weapons, mecha suits, etc. but we're going to have to share in the cost of building them. Also, most of the equipment won't be available for months or even years, so in the meantime, Earth must mobilize its armies and think up a plan of attack. <br />The main problem with A Hymn Before Battle was that it had too many characters trying to share the spotlight. For the first 200 pages or so, 1 or more characters were added each chapter, so that by the end you can't remember any except for 2 or 3 main ones. As a consequence of this, there is very little if any character development. Also, the chapters jump around in time. You'll be reading a chapter set in May 2002, then the next chapter will be from January 2002, and then the next chapter will be taking place in December 2002. This lack of order really confused issues to me. While this might be a &quot;trendy&quot; method of writing, it seems senseless and amateurish to me. Also, out of the blue, in the last 70 pages or so, we actually get into the Posleen's heads, and they basically just speak ghetto Klingon, and use words that the author just made up off the top of his head. The Posleen's awkward entry into the narrative just underscores how unalien these aliens are. I mean I would think beings from another planet would have thought processes a little different than a Mongolian horde. <br />I found it a little hard to be scared of the Posleen, seeing as how they have centaur-like bodies and crocodile like heads. It would have been a lot better if the narrator had not got into their heads and left them more mysterious. The armed forces of America got lousy treatment in this book. All the high-ranking commanders are incompetent. Most of the soldiers have a streak of corruptness. Our forces wouldn't do this bad. They have a higher character than this. <br />I guess the only thing that redeems this book is its very pulpiness. It reminded me of the sci-fi of the 40s when you didn't have to reason why your technology worked and your aliens were just anthropomorphized humans. I guess it has its own mindless charm, kinda like a Spider-Man movie. I actually couldn't buy the fact that the Federation was so pacifist. I think any race that gets into space has to have an aggressive nature or else they would not overcome the difficulties of spaceflight. Another problem is that this is a mindless action book, but it takes about 300 pages to get to the action. I guess this is a thinking man's B-movie. This book was worth reading if you just want to be entertained on a rainy day.	2004-06-29
US	47412112	R1OKX5CZ4D1AM9	0806906707	89223540	Samurai: The Story of a Warrior Tradition	Books	3	3	3	N	N	HOW THE SAMURAI ROSE AND FELL	Well, I have to tell you that I came to this book after I saw the movie The Last Samurai. While Hollywood movies can serve a positive function by exposing people to new ideas and cultures, they very rarely tell the truth about them. So I came to this book looking for a general introduction to the Samurai. This book did a good job of that by the use of reader-friendly prose and an abundance of illustrations. <br />The feudal system that came about in Japan was very similar to that of Western Europe, with a weak central government who owed its power to local warlords, who in turn had their own private armies. In Japan, the samurai, like the knights in Europe went from being simple warriors to the offical exemplars of the entire culture. They had their own code of chivalry, &quot;Bushido&quot;, and would often kill themselves rather than suffer the dishonor of defeat. For a thousand years, they were the true power behind the throne of the emperor. Ironically, the demise of the samurai came about because of peace. What were these warriors supposed to do without a war? As seen in The Last Samurai, towards the end, they were even forbidden to wear their swords. In some respects, they were similar to the American Indians, in that a lot of them failed to assimilate to a culture that was rapidly being revolutionized by technology. <br />This book tells of all the major battles the samurai undertook, whether it was the native inhabitants of Japan, Mongol and Chinese invaders, or even civil wars between themselves. Individuals are given some treatment, such as Musashi, probably the greatest warrior of all time, and the samurai who united Japan into a unified country for the first time. What is sad is that the samurai turned away from the modern world in unreasonable hopes that it would just go away. The problem is that the world stops for noone. Just because the samurai didn't want to use gunpowder or fight naval battles, America and other world powers were able to come in andhumiliate Japan in the 19th century. It just goes to show you that isolationism breeds stagnation. <br />I would highly recommend this book to general readers or those who would like a general introduction to Japanese and Samurai history. I would also recommend The Samurai Trilogy available in Criterion Collection DVDS, and also any samurai film by Akira Kurosawa. Also, I would recommend The Tales of the Otori novels by Lian Hearn.	2004-06-27
US	47412112	R3UWZPBENWRSXE	0812584228	331782180	Obernewtyn (The Obernewtyn Chronicles, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	WHERE'S MAD MAX?	Elspeth Gordie has grown up in a world much different than ours. After a nuclear war called &quot;The Great White&quot; which made much of the world unliveable, only the most remote areas were spared. As refugees poured in from the radioactive areas, these people banded into a powerful confederation called The Council and slaughtered any contaminated humans. Even those killings weren't enough, for later, babies were born mutated, and to overcome the revulsion of killing the infants, a religious order was founded, The Herder Faction. <br />As happens in human history, religion is used to hide atrocities and horror. The Herders over time make people believe that The Great White and all its horrors were punishements visited down by God, or as the call him, Lud. They forbid all the technology and customs of the old world. Any who oppose them are branded Seditioners and burned. A new problem has arisen in that there are secret mutants walking among them. Ones whose powers do not show themselves. <br />Elspeth Gordie is one such hidden mutant. She has extremely powerful telepathy, allowing her to read minds,to even control other people if she wills it, and even talk to animals. She has to conceal them though, especially since her brother is trying to fit into the Herders. They are already seen as suspicious since their parents were put to death for Sedition. A problem arises with the arrival of Madame Vega. She is a keeper at Obernewtyn, a remote mountain facility where supposedly hidden mutants, or Misfits, can be cured. The scary part about it is that noone ever returns from Obernewtyn. In a dumb mistake, Elspeth reveals her powers, and is forced to go there. It is there that she will learn the truth about the past. She will also learn how to save the future. <br />I enjoyed this book. The setting was pretty imaginative and the characters were excellent. It's pretty timely for our world too. I mean you can't help seeing Islamic Jihadists in the repressive and terroristic ways of the Herders. The world of Obernewtyn is a world not allowed to go forward because they reject their past. When religion becomes a tool of fear, you know the culture is in trouble. It also reminded me of the Spanish Inquistion and atmosphere of the Salem Witch Trials. All religions have known their savageries.	2004-06-22
US	47412112	R3AG1MQ0LTPS8X	1591828546	725691402	Comic Party, Vol. 1	Books	2	1	5	N	N	STRUGGLING TO MAKE DREAMS COME TRUE	Kazuki Sendoh has just been rejected by a fine arts college. Not because he didn't have the talent and not because he doesn't love to draw. He was rejected because he didn't put in enough effort. Maybe he sensed that his artistic expression was not going to come through a formal education. His friend Taishi has his own agenda for Kazuki to fulfill his potential. He leads Kazuki and his girlfriend, Mizuki, to Comic Party, the biggest anime, manga, and gaming convention in Tokyo. It's there that Kazuki is introduced to the world of Doujinshi (underground comics). In other words, self-published manga. Just as Taishi has planned, once exposed to the world of manga, Kazuki yearns to create his own and begins to discover hitherto unknown satisfaction in a field that he saw only as a curiosity before. This first volume is mainly about character introductions and the ins and outs of the Doujinshi industry along with Kazuki's first attempts at selling his own creations. His life is further complicated by the fact that his girlfriend HATES manga and everything associated with it. Her resentment only increases as Kazuki becomes more and more abosorbed with creating his comic than with her. <br />It's cool that in Japan anyone with a idea and talent and creativity can give manga a go. If only the comic world in America was as easy to break into. If I lived in Japan I would be going to these conventions all the time. If I didn't mention earlier in the review this book is a comedy. For instance, Taishi believes that peace on earth and the redemption of the human race can be brought about by manga. It's a little darker and inferior to the anime version. For instance, Mizuki's standard way to punish Kazuki is to hit him with a baseball bat with nails protruding from it. The conflict between the two top manga artists, Yuu and Kiteratsu, is just as funny as the anime. To me, at least, the manga wasn't as funny as the anime. It just lacked the charm and hilarity of the voice actors. Still worth checking out, at least for fans of the anime. I will try the second volume to see if it gets better. I highly recommend both volumes of the anime over the manga version.	2004-06-20
US	47412112	R3D0N44B9WDP3L	1591826454	380527937	Ai Yori Aoshi, Vol. 1	Books	4	4	4	N	N	NO ACTION, AND THAT'S A GOOD THING	Kaoru Hanabishi has moved to the big city to live his own life away from the family that disowned him and is currently attending college. Yeah, he has freedom, but freedom is lonely. That's when he helps an 18 year old girl, Aoi Sakuraba, who is lost and in distress at the train station. She tells him all a sob story that when she was growing up she had fallen in love with a young boy friend and that she always felt it was her destiny to marry him. She hasn't seen him in years and all she has is an address. When Kaoru asks to see a picture of the guy he is shocked to learn that the person she was looking for is HIMSELF! The rest of the volume is about the budding relationship that starts up even though parts of Kaoru's past will make it very difficult, if not impossible, for them to marry. <br />This manga was very well done. The art is glowing and the sexual tension, romance, and characterization are all masterfully balanced. Sometimes I believe this artform is at its best when it involves relationships and subtlety instead of confused kung fu fights where you can't even tell what's going on. There is a tenderness between these two characters that is so often missing between couples in the real world where romance is seen as a pathological disease. There is no struggle for dominance between Kaoru and Aoi. We could all probably learn a lot from their unconditional love.	2004-06-14
US	47412112	REMB7DX3QMC2D	1413900402	695098845	Aria Volume 1	Books	3	6	7	N	N	LET'S LAZE ON MARS	After 150 years of terraforming, the barren planet of Mars has been turned into a new water-covered planet named Aqua. Akari Mizunashi, parentless and alone, has come to the city of Neo Venezia (modeled on Venice) to become an undine (gondolier) on the labyrinthine water boulevards. She's made a couple of friends after 11 months, such as her mentor Alicia and fellow co-worker for the Aria corporation. She also has a strange overweight cat/dog named President Aria that serves as her good luck mascot on her travels as a sort of wholesome taxi driver. <BR>You can't just become a full-fledged gondolier  without meeting some prerequisites, which are not made very clear in this first volume. Akari loves her work, if you can call it that, since she loves to introduce tourists, or anyone for that matter, to the charms and beauty of her new home. Along the way she brings some light into people's lives, meets ancient spirits, and competes in a race.<br />Aria has a gentle beauty to it. It's not an action manga. It's more like a haiku with words and pictures. Sometimes a couple of panels will take up the subject of the motion of the boat through the water as leaves twirl in the air around it. What we're really dealing with here is the daily life of a person who just happens to be an undine on Aqua. Whether you find joy in simplicity should be the gauge for this manga. The characters are a little sketchy yet and you wonder how long the story can survive on charm alone. There's a great gem of a story in this volume about Akari and a friend visiting a shrine and encountering a spirit that bodes well on the storytelling aspects that need to equal the visuals. I'm curious as to how volume 2 will turn out.	2004-06-13
US	47412112	R2LQ5BXRMLTJZE	0374135770	849361930	Inside Hitler's Bunker: The Last Days of the Third Reich	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A FITTING END	As World War II was coming to an end and the Russian armies were marching towards Berlin, Hitler and some of his most die-hard supporters hid themselves in a secret bunker deep underground. This excellent book lays out the events that were happening inside the bunker and also in the streets outside as the dream of a maniac was coming to an end. <br />As you read you see a Hitler who still has dreams of the Americans and Russians turning against each other and Hitler coming in as the cavalry to aid the US. The bunker was a fertile playground for pipedreams of still being able to win the war even as the cement was falling from the ceilings as bombs struck overhead. It made me think of the Iraqi press officer in the recent war as Americans were invading the country saying that all the Americans had been kicked out and defeated. <br />The portrait of Hitler that emerges is the mentality of a gang leader. He wasn't a visionary. He wanted to kill, loot, and pillage. The world was nothing more than a theater of death to him. He refused to almost the end to surrender, instead bringing needless destruction and death to his people. It seemed that he resented the German people in a way simply because they were gullible enough to do everything he said. My god, where was a voice of reason in the Germany of that era? To me, it seems as though it was a terrorist state. <br />Another disturbing aspect of it was the devotion of his followers and the idealism of the Nazi way of life. For example, Magda Goebbels, on realizing the end of the war, became so depressed that she killed all her children and then committed suicide along with her husband. These people really thought they were mideval knights, holding up some code of chivalry and social codes while they were killing millions of Jews, Russians, and Americans. It almost felt good to read about the end of this horrible state and the absurdity as the people around Hitler struggled amongst themselves to be his successor like therewas a future for the Nazi party.	2004-06-13
US	47412112	R3UYFG844NEM6W	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	2	12	24	N	N	A STARVED BOOK INSTEAD OF A FEAST	When you go to the library you always see these Napoleon biographies, some bigger than an unabridged dictionary or larger than a radioactively mutated monster spider. So instead of committing your brain to such a long exercise you might instead pick up this little volume the thickness of a deck of playing cards. Don't bother. It would be better to read an encyclopedia entry on the famous emperor (or is that infamous?, as Paul Johnson, wants to persuade us). <br />In this cursory glance at the life of Napoleon, the author has an agenda. He wants to show that in spite of the French mythology, Napoloen was simply the precursor for all the evil dictators that came after him. He was the model for Hitler and <BR>Stalin, maybe not consciously, but he set up the power base by which an oppurtunistic person can seize a country and proceed to remake it in his own image. Napoleon never cared about his country or his people, he was only interested in himself, causing the deaths of millions of Germans, Russians, English, and French soldiers and civilians. What are human beings to a man who does not see anyone but himself as worthy of that title? <br />Napoleon is not even really seen as a great fighting man in this book. Johnson's big compliment is that Napoleon was a great map-reader and a man who relied on quickness and surprise, not as a great strategist. His disastrous invasion of Russia and the fact that in the retreat he abandoned his army does not really cast a good light on him. I was surprised at how lowly a man he appears to be. I do not know if this is the truth or simply Johnson's casting. I would have to read a true biography to get a better sense. <br />The most amusing part of the book is his exile where this one-time ruler of Europe is reduced to lording it over a rocky island, spending most of his time gardening. You can almost picture tourists going there and saying \\"So, Bonaparte, how's that empire going, eh?\\"<br />Johnson's conclusion is that Napoleon is remembered for all the wrong reasons. Instead of being seen as a Hitler-like figure, he is instead seen as a mythic figure of heroism and cultural enlightenment. The middle class man rising to the level of kings. I for one have never seen any one man as controlling a nation. It is the people that make the ruler. So instead of Johnson's indictment of this man, he should have thrown it in the laps of the French people, who allowed him to arise. It is still going today, this glorification of Napoleon as a symbol of a better vanished era of French power. <br />In summary, I would pass up this book, and instead seek a longer work which would do justice to its subject without the politics of the author.	2004-05-25
US	47412112	RS3UUHOY2IN9P	0192545051	828520978	Oliver Twist (Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	POOR LITTLE TWIST	Right off the bat, I've never been a fan of Dickens. To me, there's always been something mercenary about his writing due to the fact that his novels were written to be serialized in magazines of his time. From one week to the next, he was just winging it, creating it as he went. While his improvisation is impressive, it lended itself to bloatedness and inefficency. I've read or tried to read about 5 of his works and never liked the writing. Despite that, I've tried to keep a positive outlook about the guy. I mean, with his status in the Western canon, maybe I just wasn't getting it. Thankfully, I really enjoyed Oliver Twist. Finally, a book of his that I liked.<br />Oliver Twist is an orphan whose father is unknown and whose mother died during childbirth. Consequently he is raised in the equivalent of the 19th century English welfare system. His raising by the state is despicable. The powers that be in the government of that time, much like our government, had to deal with the problem of indigents taking advantage of the welfare system.  They made the homeless shelters and lunchlines so atrocious that the down-on-their luck would HAVE to look elsewhere for help. They went on the assumption that all the displaced were bums just looking for handouts. So the honest and dishonest were treated the same way. <br />Oliver Twist is a victim of this in that the daily meals he is served in the workhouse as a child are not enough to sustain a human being. Foolishly or bravely, one day he stands up and states the famous line, &quot;Please sir, I want some more.&quot; In return for this he is bundled off to be an apprentice undertaker. After some trouble with another boy in the house, he runs away, in the process meeting The Artful Dodger, who indoctrinates him into a gang of pickpockets and thieves led by the Jew Fagin. The question is whether or not a boy who is basically good can escape from such an evil life, or whether he will fall victim to it. <br />This was a great book. The characters were great and the novel has a dark undertone that I wouldn't expect from Dickens. Unlike David Copperfield, this work does not exhaust itself through its very length. The ending tended to be a little too talky and clean.	2004-05-23
US	47412112	R3AMOJMNWA55RA	159182639X	876371372	B'tX, Vol. 1	Books	1	1	4	N	N	AWFUL	5 years after they parted ways to make their mark on the world, two brothers, Teppei and Kotaro Takamiya are set to reunite in Mechatopia, Bejing. Kotaro has become the greatest scientist of robotics in the world, while Teppei has acquired a metal thing on his fist that lets him smash things up. You can argue who has gotten further ahead in life. The reunion doesn't last long as Kotaro is kidnapped by the Machine Empire, an empire of thinking machines with their own secret purposes whose latest weapons are called B'ts (pronounced Beats). They don't run on oil, they run on human blood and have free will, except that they have to obey the person that activates them (does that make any sense?). Of course the ever industrious Teppei (remember in five years he acquired a metal thingey for his hand) goes to rescue his brother and runs into a half-mecha human named, originally enough, Metalface. In the course of battle Teppei just happens to bleed on the junked out remains of B'tX, one of the most powerful B'ts ever created, except he's a little rusty. The question is whether he is strong enough to take on the Machine Empire along with tolerating his underachieving master.<br />Let's make it short and sweet. This story was stupid. How are the B'ts the most advanced robots ever created if they run on human blood? So, basically, they're vampires. Such a big deal is made about their freewill but they have to obey the first person that feeds them. Doesn't the whole blood thing make them relient on humans instead of more strategically making them independent of humans? The B'ts also look like the ugly stepchildren of My Little Ponys. Man, this was awful. I would recommend it for ages 6-9, not the 13+ it recommends.	2004-05-16
US	47412112	R31SC7OF9WF6WN	1591828104	783713451	Arm of Kannon, Vol. 1	Books	3	2	3	N	N	FREUDIAN NIGHTMARE	It's been 3 years since Mao and Mayo Mikami's father, a respected archeaologist disappeared mysteriously after he found an ancient Buddhist relic named the Arm of Kannon. It holds great power which the government wishes to use to transform ordinary soldiers into demonic death machines. The problem is that the Arm cannot be controlled once its power is unleashed into the world. It seems that everyone is interested in finding Mao and Maya's father, including a mysterious superhero-like swordsman who shows up to save them from a street gang, claiming that he is their bodyguard. Can even he save them from the Arm and the equally evil government?<br />The Arm of Kannon succeeds on some levels but not on others. If you like the dark sexual horror of Clive Barker mixed with equal parts squish in the dark H.P. Lovecraft you would probably like this. It does have a disquieting atmosphere and is definately recommended for 18 and older because there is some very graphic sexual scenes in it. It's too early to tell whether the series will get better. The swordsman seems to be the most interesting while the brother and sister just seem the stock victims of powers beyond their control. Hopefully Maya will become stronger. Also, the monsters in the manga are almost laughable sometimes reminding one of goofy looking monster antagonists from a Godzilla movie.	2004-05-16
US	47412112	R23KECSPYC050K	1931514739	388470871	RAGNAROK #1	Books	4	2	3	N	N	THIS IS NOT THOR	1000 years ago, the God Balder was killed fighting against the goddess Freya. Now he has been resurrected as the mortal named Chaos, living in the city of Fayon. He is suffering from amnesia and is therefore ignorant of his past and of the forces that are hunting him. He is spending his time being the mentor of the princess of the city, a reckless but potentially powerful cleric named Iris Irine. Freya is seeking the lands with her valkyries in order to destroy him. The valkyrie in charge of the hunt is Sara Irine, who just happens to have a personal grievance against Fayon. Chaos' only hope is if Fenris Fenrir, the reincarnated wolf god can find him before Freya and jog his memory. Chaos and Iris are also befriended by a Lara Croft treasure hunter type named Lidia who is really just a common thief who tags along with them looking for opportunities to steal any magic item she can. There is also the mysterious Skurai, an cursed outlaw whose living sword promises to free him from his bondage if he kills a certain someone in Fayon. <br />This is a great manga. All of the characters are well drawn and the story smacks of an epic. It's a great setup for volume 2 in which this panorama of characters are going to come into conflict once they all reach the city.	2004-05-06
US	47412112	R37PFW3P94PQQF	1591827434	163953507	Battle Vixens, Vol. 1	Books	2	6	8	N	N	DUDE, WHERES THE DRIVEL?	Oh, what's a parent to do when your high school daughter likes to go out and beat the crap out of anybody and everyone because she simply likes to beat up people? Plus the fact that it gives her sexual satisfaction. Hakufu Sonsaku isn't interested in being a prim and proper Japanese woman. After her mother throws her out, giving her a Magatama Jewel (said to hold the spirit of an ancient warrior who imbibes its owner with great power), Hakufu enrolls in Nanyo Academy in Tokyo. The Academy is one in which students constantly fight each other in a Highlanderish bid to become Ikki Tosen: One Warrior with the Power of One Thousand. Or is this Real About High School?<br />This first volume was very weak. There's really no story here, oh yeah, there's some mystical mumbo jumbo that the spirits in the Stones were heroes attempting to unite China etc., etc., but it's all rather dull. It's just fight after fight after fight. The whole manga seems just to be for fan service. Adding to this weakness is the fact that the last chapter is a side story about a previously unknown character at the Academy who has...can you believe it?....a fight? It wouldn't be so bad but why couldn't you give another chapter of the real story without digeressing? I had a hard time even trying to find enough story to write about in this review.	2004-05-06
US	47412112	R2QGUT8JRJE8F7	0061092355	527532142	Star Trek Memories	Books	3	12	14	N	N	YOU LEFT OUT THE ACTORS	You would expect a Star Trek memoir written by a cast member, especially the eternally energetic William Shatner, James Kirk, himself, to offer new insight into the early days of the Trek series. You'll probably be disappointed with this book if you have such expectations. <br />What Shatner sets out to do in this book, co-written by Chris Kreski, whose pedigree includes writing Beavis and Butthead episodes, is to put forth a history of the original Star Trek series. I would have like to have known about the relationships between the cast members and anecdotes about the filming of the episodes. Most of the book is taken up by the story of Gene Roddenberry's fight to even get the show produced at all. We meet all the technical and production experts of the show but the whole book is left a little flat in that most of the main cast, except for interviews with Leonard Nimoy, are left out of the research of the book. In a brief epilogue at the back of the book, it becomes clear why this was so. <br />It seems that the rest of the cast resented Shatner because he was almost solely concerned about his camera time on set to the detriment of the others. Nichelle Nichols relates about a time where they were shooting an episode and Shatner told the director that Uhura didn't need to have any scenes, that it wasn't important to the story. James Doohan flat out refused to be interviewed at all for the book. Even when he spoke to the actors that played Sulu and Chekhov it became surprisingly apparent that there was very little of the familial relationships seen on the show. Shatner seemed genuinely amazed at his lack of knowledge concerning the lives of his co-stars. In fact, the others had originally planned to use Shatner's interviews for the book to air their anger at him. <br />It seems truly sad that the author did not attempt to write a human look at the creative process of this classic show but instead resorted to almost a fan's perspective that could have been gleaned from reading previous non-fiction works written about Trek. If you're looking for an insider's view, I wouldn't reccomend this book.	2004-05-06
US	47412112	RANMDUTJ9YVN7	1573223328	608984993	Across the Nightingale Floor (Tales of the Otori, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	SWASHBUCKLING IN JAPAN	Across the Nightingale Floor is the first book in the Otori Trilogy which is set in a world much like that of Japan in the middle ages. Aristocratic warrior clans vie for control of territories through war and by paying for the services of The Tribe, a band of ninja-like assassins with magical powers that have their own concealed interest in who rules. <br />One leader, Lord Iida plans to take over all the different lands and unite them under his rule of tyranny and fear. One group he particularly hates is a clan called The Hidden. Ironically, this is a clan of pacifists who are against war and the taking of life. Iida sets out to exterminate them, putting to death all those he finds. The 16 year old Takeo, a young man of the Hidden, comes back from a day of wandering among the mountains to find his whole village has been executed by Iida and his men. After an escape that dishonors Iida, Takeo runs into a man who also has cause to want revenge on him, the mysterious Lord Shigeru. <br />Shigeru was defeated years earlier by Iida and treachery and vows to protect Takeo and even adopt him. In a weird turn of events it turns out that Takeo has some of the skills of the Tribe. The question is not if, but when he will use them to try to kill Iida? And is Shigeru operating from a urge to protect him or is he just using Takeo as a pawn? <br />This book was great. For some reason when I read the reviews for it a long time ago I was under the impression that it was a young adult book but it's definately not that. There's doses of graphic blood and snatches of sex. What we have here is an example of literary fantasy that I would compare to the Lord of the Rings in that the author is trying to write something serious and not just entertain, even though he does that too. The author, by the way, is unknown. Lian Hearn is a pseudonym. Hearn, I am sure comes from Lafcadio Hearn, a Western writer who wrote many tales about Japan. This book was beautiful. There are relationships aplenty after the book starts up, love stories, I mean, which form subplots to the revenge story. I was fixing to write that you got a feel for the politics of the middle ages reading this book, but actually those policies continue to this day. People are still killed by leaders for their beliefs. Leaders of countries hold grudges and take revenge on other countries, be it political or military. <br />I just ordered the second book, Grass For His Pillow. The third book comes out later this year. If you like this book, I would recommend any Samurai movie by Akira Kurosawa, also Samurai I,II, and III directed by Jiroshi Inagaki, all starring Toshiro Mifune.	2004-01-12
US	47412112	R1GFZ5PTCYJK0U	B00009V2NI	861443526	Harrison	Books	4	23	23	N	N	THE CONFLICTED ONE	Harrison is a coffee table book put out by the editors of Rolling Stone as a tribute to the late Beatles guitarist. What you have here is mostly pictures but there is text in the form of a short biography that scans over George's whole career. It features photographs from the 60s when Beatlemania was at its height and even offers commentary by the people who took those pictures. It also has pictures of his post Beatle career. It also has musical documentation of all of Harrison's output on his and other artist recordings. All of his interviews in Rolling Stone magazine are compiled in this book. <br />The picture of George that emerges after reading this book is of a man who ideally lives his life according to certain religious precepts but nevertheless has to live in the material world. Left to himself, George would have painted himself as a purely spiritual being. The pettiness of the Beatles in their breakup and how shamefully they all acted, including George himself, shows that no divine being can exist in human flesh. It seems he was always conflicted between being an entertainer and being somewhat of a divine monk. I don't think he ever reconciled the two. <br />An especially poignant moment is when an interviewer asks him about his relationship with John Lennon right before he was shot to death. George says that he felt John was trying to reconnect with him. He went to see him in New York and he could tell John wanted so badly to restart a relationship with him but because of his circumstances, probably Yoko's possessiveness of him, he could not communicate what he wanted to say. <br />It was also apparent that time heals most wounds and that George was at peace with his Beatles past, a past which at one time he hated. He seemed resentful that all his life was judged by a span of 7 short years. Remember, he was only 27 years old at the time the Beatles broke up. Paradoxically, he missed his old band, just like John, Paul, and Ringo did. Beneath all their spats in later years, they knew they had a good situation. They were the best band on the planet.	2004-01-05
US	47412112	R145VLRDPS7I39	0801495385	968611575	New Islands and Other Stories	Books	3	9	11	N	N	TOO LITTLE TO TELL	In his tiny preface, Jorge Luis Borges describes Maria Luisa Bombal as a &quot;wonderful Chilean writer&quot;, and in the introduction by the translators she is described as &quot;the most important Latin American woman novelist of this century&quot;. This is not faint praise. The question is, how come nobody in America has ever heard of her and you can count her works in translation on two fingers? This slim volume is not enough for me to make any judgements of her worth or talent. <br />Bombal writes stories that border on fantasy or horror. In the first story, actually more a novella, &quot;The Final Mist&quot;, she writes about two cousins who marry each other a few months after the man's first wife has died. He cannot forget his dead wife and she merely married him to keep from being a spinster. So she seeks her satisfaction in other places, meeting a strangely supernatural man in the streets one night. &quot;The Tree&quot; also concerns a marriage. In it, the wife, Brigada, comes to the realization that she no longer knows why she married her husband. &quot;The Unknown&quot; was to me the best story of the collection since it lacked all sentimentality. It was about a pirate ship that gets sucked down to the bottom of the ocean by a whirlpool. When the crew wakes up they find themselves in a desert whose sky is simply a reflection of the sand. &quot;New Islands&quot; shows the conflict between two men as they covet the same married woman even as strange volcanic islands form off the coast. <br />After reading this too brief collection, I want to read more by Bombal. There's just not enough here to get any feel for the writer. She does make you feel uneasy and when she gets the horror elements going it really works. Her relationships do verge into the sappy at times though. I also feel that this collection was manipulated in some way to try to portray Bombal as some feminist champion, as mentioned in the book jacket. I would like to find one of her novels, but Idoubt I will find one in English.	2004-01-05
US	47412112	R3N8KKUU3PYVHK	0425181731	947124405	The Neptune File: A Story of Astronomical Rivalry and the Pioneers of Planet Hunting (Science Matters)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	INTERESTING VIEW	The field of science has long been a habitat for entrenched older types who do not want to shake the fundamental assumptions of its own field. It takes visionaries to do such a thing. The Neptune File chronicles the attempts and successes of planet hunters who had to work against the inertia of the belief that were no other planets to be found beyond Jupiter and Saturn. It begins with the discovery of Uranus by William Herschel in the 1700's and all the skepticism he had to fight against. Once it was accepted as a fact, it opened up a new can of worms because the orbit of the planet did not make sense. It seemed to be irregular, as though some force was operating on it, a force with enough mass to cause that might just be another planet, so the whole thing starts over again. Of course, we would find that there was another planet, Neptune. This book tries to show how much adventure, luck, and just plain persistance leads to great scientific discoveries. Some of the scientists are motivated by fame, others by simple curiosity. It does start to drag by the end, but for the most part is an engaging and entertaining read.  It also shows how one discovery settles nothing, but simply leads to more.	2003-12-23
US	47412112	R1XUVSOB98X0BC	0393312178	498659206	City of Coughing and Dead Radiators: Poems	Books	3	3	4	N	N	REVOLUTION	You know, most poets these days are content to write about the hitherings and ditherings of the tips of their noses. They don't see beyond themselves. They write in obscure heiroglyphics translatable only by the author. Martin Espada is a throwback to such poets as Percy Shelley, who believed that poets could instigate revolutions. Espada wants to have an effect on the outside world, not just ramble about wild imaginations.<br />Espada writes about the oppressed, whether they be the poor or students trying to revolt against their government, or the horrible living conditions in the cities of Central America or even the US. He believes that forces of freedom cannot be stamped out. In the very effective poem &quot;Cockroaches of Liberation&quot;, he writes about a student strike in Puerto Rico. When the police come to break it up, swinging bats like &quot;Roberto Clemente&quot;, the crowd dissolves &quot;between the grillwork of balconies&quot;. After all the furor settles down, the students creep back out and begin &quot;mutiplying like cockroaches of liberation.&quot; <br />Espada bases a lot of his poems on his life experience, especially as a housing lawyer who helped the poor find places to live. He writes about the bureaucratic hassles that refugees have to deal with and racism. Martin is basically railing against the ethnic and class issues of our century. I don't think he's a great enough poet to bring attention to the larger public, but he does do a nice balancing act between social protest and art. I've heard him compared to Neruda but Pablo wrote about other things besides politics. That was only one facet of his poems. He also wrote lyrics, love poems, odes to vegetables, and histories. It would be nice if Espada could also change his subject sometimes.	2003-11-27
US	47412112	RS8UTN6A3O7LD	1591820324	46975603	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 8	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SHE'S POSSESSED	Continuing the storyline of GTO 7, Urumi still has GTO blackmailed into doing whatever she wants him do. If he doesn't, then she will tell everyone that he tried to bury her alive. For example, she makes GTO take out the whole class to the priciest restaurants. Onizuka is at a loss to solve the problem until Ms. Fujimori, Urumi's old teacher, appears on the scene. It seems she knows the secret as to why Urumi is a classroom terrorist. On top of that she says that it's all her fault she is the way she is. Is it any wonder that Urumi greets her with a Molotov cocktail? Knowing why someone is the way they are is informative, but how can GTO use it to change her? <BR>This series pretty much stays the same in terms of quality. Great action and humor. Also plenty of character.	2003-11-24
US	47412112	R1SPWMLZJ4WW9V	1556591136	714295294	Leaving a Shadow (National Poetry Series)	Books	1	5	17	N	N	LIFT THE NEEDLE OFF THE BROKEN RECORD	Heather Allen is one of the most severe cases of poetic repetitiveness I have ever seen. She basically makes poems about water, trees, deer, and fish, and that's it. Yes, there is a hidden world that lies beneath everything we see but do we have to read 50 pages of it??? Another metaphor that she does to death is the whole life is a series of concentric rings and circles deal where everything affects everything else. Ho Hum. She uses the same symbols over and over again with no variation and she doesn't really connect with humanity in her poems. Everything is about Nature. I could have written the same poems sitting at a campfire with a beer and looking around describing the night. I have never seen so limited a poetic vision before. I would go back and count how many times the same exact phrase is used throughout the poems, but it's not worth it. I know poems can act as refrains, but this just feels like laziness in this case. To me, this also makes Denise Levertov, the poet who picked Allen to have her own book, have suspicious credibility in my eyes.	2003-11-24
US	47412112	RXJ8G0167NRH0	0876850867	561703515	Post Office	Books	3	2	5	N	N	LET'S GO POSTAL!	Charles Bukowski's Post Office chronicles the events, or rather non-events in the life of postal worker Henry Chinaski. Actually, Henry spends much of his time trying to figure out how not to work. He has more important things to do, like becoming an alcoholic, or betting on the horses at the track. He does find time to get married to a nymphomaniac heiress and does learn that being a postal worker is harder than you think. It's not that it is inherently back-breaking work. Its the repetitive nature of it that drives one insane. Then you have the impossibly inept supervisors who haven't figured out that it's easier to let a slacker continue in his laziness and goofing off at work than to fire the guy. Post Office is a good example of a novel that shows the inhumanity of the nature of 20th century work. It underlines, italicizes, and boldfaces the fact that we are the cogs and the people in charge are even more imcompetent than us. While there's not a lot of plot here, I enjoyed this novel. I couldn't help thinking that it was a poor man's Tropic of Cancer and that this book felt more like a Henry Miller rough draft than a book that had its own bold style and ideas. The prose is bare almost to the point of being non-art. .	2003-11-24
US	47412112	RWEKM4NSWPREW	0743246853	479769502	Half in Love: Stories	Books	4	1	2	N	N	FULLY IN LOVE WITH THIS WRITER	It's not often that a writer of grace such as Maile Meloy comes around. I have not read her second work, the novel Liars and Saints yet, but just judging by this slim collection of stories, she is going to be a writer to watch. My favorite story in here was &quot;Red&quot; in which a soldier fixing to ship out to France during the World War, desperately tries to reach a non-communicative woman. &quot;Thirteen and a Half&quot; is a brief tale about a junior high dance crashed by a murderous gangbanger. &quot;The Ice Harvester&quot; shows the life of a man whose profession has become obsolete due to electric refrigeration. &quot;A Stakes Horse&quot; deals with a woman whose ex-husband is a jockey who she thinks is involved in throwing races. &quot;Ranch Girl&quot; shows the debilitating effects of small-town life on a girl who is afraid to strive for anything better and rejects anything outside her zone of comfort. <br />Meloy is a great writer. She is able to show ordinary people and use them for great tales. Her stories seem to be about awakenings. Or more rightly, realization. Whether it's of awareness of infidelity, of death, or of joy, it's the power of opening your perceptions that she writes about, for good or bad. The best of these stories show that she has the potential to climb the plateau of the best short story practicioners. Hope her novel is just as good.	2003-11-23
US	47412112	R3PTD0KL3P3R0P	0375500170	462109237	Beliefs and Blasphemies: A Collection of Poems	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SENIOR WRITING	This is the second book of poems by the youthful 85 year old Virginia Adair. She has more vitality and imagination and more sensuality than poets 1/10th her age. In this book she takes on the cosmic issues of life and death and God, sometimes somberly, and sometimes with humor.<br />Adair seems dissatisfied with God, or more to the point, his representatives on Earth. For example, in &quot;Judas&quot; she writes:<br />&quot;The devil said, 'When I was tempting Jesus,<br />I told him I could make him rich as Croesus.<br />But he misjudged my power, the pious scoffer.<br />His televangelists took up my offer.&quot;<br />Besides writing poems about sinful men who long to find geishas in heaven, the reason why goddesses appeared before God, and why God allowed innocents to burned as heretics, there are also great moments of serious beauty such as &quot;The Playground of the Dead&quot; where dead spirits of children gather and &quot;So Long&quot;, which addresses that age-old theme of mutability. In the end, this collection is the questioning of God as to why things are the way they are and a satiric poke at us humans who wrongfully try to interpret the doings of a being higher than us in all ways. Adair is more successful in her comedic moments than her profound ones. Highly recommended. Adair's first collection was Ants on the Melon. Her third book is Living on Fire.	2003-11-23
US	47412112	R3GSBEV2CJ95O6	0007154623	742164087	Moral Hazard	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	IN THE BELLY OF THE BEAST	Cath is a 40ish woman who was once a freelance writer who has been forced into becoming a speechwriter for big business in early 1990s New York. Her husband, who is 20 years older than her, has been stricken with Alzheimer's, and she is in dire need of money to cover the expenses of his care. Some of her connections get her a job with Niedecker Bereche, an investment bank. When she gets to her new job she thinks &quot;I was in the belly of the beast:observe, listen, learn.&quot; You see, her problem is that she is a feminist liberal idealist, so she is out of her element in the cutthroat world of high finance. She soon finds that a lot of what goes on at her work are scams and schemes much like those that brought down Enron. She does manage to find an ally to stem the tide of corruption from infecting her. Mike, a coworker, is also aware of the dangers of capitalism run amok and plans to take down the company from the inside out. The problem is that after working there for a while, Cath has perhaps changed her mind about the evils she once perceived.<br />Moral Hazard by Kate Jennings is an excellent work. It was critical of big business behavior without sacrificing story or preaching. It also retains a human element in the scenes with Cath and her stricken husband as he gradually deteriorates into a man she no longer knows. The satire in it is also humorous. It explodes the myth that Wall Street bankers know what they are doing and reveals them as paranoid, helpless, and corrupt investors who blow with the wind of rumors. I think we have already seen in real life what happens when markets are left to regulate themselves. This book is a great short read.	2003-11-17
US	47412112	R28EYJN8S5AJR	1931514976	698548698	Love Hina, Volume 2	Books	2	2	4	N	N	LIGHT AS CHAMPAGNE, OR WATER	Well, here we are, the second momentous manga of Love Hina. Keitaro Urashima, the new landlord of Hinata House, even though he has a 0% chance of passing the Tokyo University entrance exam, decides to press on anyway. Keitaro will have to sublimate his lust for the girls in his dorm and their frankly destructive tendencies to distract him from studying. He still hasn't figured out whether Naru is the girl he promised to attend Tokyo U with and vowed to marry. If that isn't enough,  he's physically ill, and also finds out that he will be competing against Naru for a place in the University. <br />To me, the novelty of this series is already wearing thin. Just writing this review reveals the shallowness and pointlessness of Love Hina. Writing about such stuff as if it really mattered. This book is at its best when it utilizes its characters, but they are all underused in this second volume. I don't know if I'll continue reading them or not.	2003-10-28
US	47412112	R2AT4YHE843KRV	0393041476	695827667	Shadow of Heaven: Poems	Books	3	1	3	N	N	LIKE ETHER	As I read Ellen Bryant Voight's book of poems, Shadow of Heaven, I thought to myself that she was a very good descriptive writer and painter of mood. I mean, I felt &quot;something&quot; but when you look at her poems, a lot of the times they make no sense. The poems are uneven, with there being some great ones, but interspersed with ones that are average. I liked one called &quot;Practice&quot;:<br />&quot;To weep unbidden, to wake<BR>at night in order to weep, to wait<BR>for the whisker of the face of the clock<br />to twitch again, moving<BR>the dumb day forward-&quot;<br />There's a lot of poems in here that condemn the acceptance of situations. Whether it's a stale marriage that people just stay in because they feel safe in it or condemn some source of spirtual sterility. One almost feels if you are reading a &quot;mini-Blake&quot;, there is so much righteous anger boiling under the brim of this nature poet. <br />There is a great satiric poem in here called &quot;Plaza del Sol&quot; which pokes fun with some amount of disgust at all the ugly out of shape human beings as they bask their bloated bodies on a beach in Florida. <br />While there are some poems touching on foreign lands and some half-baked fairy tales, Voight stays much the personal poet who has more talent in describing the workings of nature rather than the relationships between human beings. If Voight could somehow become more clear on what she was trying to say, she would be a great poet.	2003-10-28
US	47412112	R1JB9E47EPHLMB	0802117414	553515611	Gilgamesh: A Novel	Books	4	24	24	N	N	COMPANIONSHIP AND QUESTS	You know the relationship between wounded soldier Frank and young nurse Ada is not very promising when the narrator writes &quot;They should really never have met.&quot; The time is right after the end of World War I and Ada longs for a place where there is no war. Frank says there is such a place. His homeland, Australia. Promising her a paradise of honey Edenic bliss, they marry and Ada and him end up in the middle of nowhere in the bush as part of a group settlement, which is promised a certain parcel of land if they clear it and build houses. As the years go by, Ada becomes more and more depressed by the rough living, realizing that she was tricked into coming but not having the strength to leave. Years later after an unhappy marriage, the dying Frank wonders what the point of it was and thinks that perhaps it will &quot;work itself out in the following generations.&quot;<br />That's what this book is really about. Frank and Ada's two daughters, Edith and Frances. Growing up in the wilds they are relatively free of outside sources of information as they grow into young women, until their cousin Leopold, an archealogist, shows up with his Armenian friend, Aram. They open up a world beyond the bush and cause Edith to long for another place and Frances to retreat into fear. They soon leave, but something has changed with Edith. She is pregnant, and she will feel compelled to seek out the father of her child, no matter what the danger or the foreign country she must travel to. <br />Gilgamesh was a fine novel. The title comes from the fact that Leopold and Aram, two bosom buddies, much as Gilgamesh and Enkidu are in the ancient myth, tell the story to the two girls. What is a book except a quest for companionship? Everyone in this novel seems to be looking for someone to share life with, whether in the end, that is attainable, is something else again. The characters here, well, most of them, seem to be wanderlust stricken souls who cannot exactly figure out what itis they are missing. To answer this craving, they simply move. After reading this book, I felt as though I had went on a long journey. There's a real feeling of depth and soul-searching you can sense in the author. Wow, great book. I have nothing negative to say about it.	2003-10-28
US	47412112	R2SQH1D3XYN601	0815412304	57850156	D.H. Lawrence: A Biography	Books	3	11	29	N	N	THIS IS THE GREAT MAN?	Pretty much known as the Henry Miller of his time, D.H. Lawrence was a writer that lots of people were reading, but were ashamed to admit to. The sexually charged Lady Chatterly's Lover would have made him a wealthy man if he had lived a bit longer. Lawrence has too often been the victim of readers looking over his art to see the erotic elements. Jeffrey Meyers tries to present his subject as an artist who changed the times he lived in. Meyers pretty much fails.<br />Born into a working class family, Lawrence figured out early on that his mother was the one that made the decisions in the household, overriding his father, who was frequently drunk and abused his wife. As so often happens, this pattern would be repeated with DH's own marriage. After a couple of years of being a teacher, a job which he despised by the way, he met a woman somewhat older than himself who was married, and proceeded to fall in love. Much as Henry Miller's wife got him to quit his job and concentrate on his art, so too did Frieda. Eventually getting a divorce, Lawrence married her. Her love came at a price though. On their honeymoon, Freida had affairs with other men to prove her freedom.<br />Finding some fulfillment with Freida but still unable to feel complete, Lawrence set about writing a handful of novels about some semi-mystical state you could reach through sex. It was as though Lawrence felt so disconnected with the world and so alienated from women that he sought some cosmic answer in his books as to how they two sexes could be brought together in one being. Meyers also suggests that maybe as an alternative Lawrence sought for this union through affairs with men also.<br />In this biography I failed to see how anything about DH's and Freida's relationship was positive. She seems to be more a physical plaything that a loving wife. Every time you hear about DH and her, they seem to be yelling at each other and having actual physical fights. Probably because just like in his father's marriage, he is the passive-aggresive one who does not have the stamina to control Freida except in moments of anger when he hits her. The only thing she helped him with was sex. Meyers himself seems enamored of Freida, time and again saying how attractive she was when the pictures in the book make her appear just as Georgia O'Keefe comments upon meeting her, that she was \\"a chunky, gold-toothed, guttural-voiced woman\\". I still never figured out her supposed beauty.<br />I felt no connection with Lawrence. I don't know if it was the fault of the biographer or DH himself. He came off as a hypocritic man who tried to lord it over his friends. He never seemed to think they were good enough or smart enough to figure out what they wanted from their lives. He sacrificed many of his friends, such as that with Katherine Mansfield for his egomaniacal mannerisms. Some might say this is a symptom of genius. I believe that Lawrence was simply an above average writer, bordering on bad.arriage, he is the passive-aggresive one who does not have the stamina to control Freida except in moments of anger when he hits her. The only thing she helped him with was sex. Meyers himself seems enamored of Freida, time and again saying how attractive she was when the pictures in the book make her appear just as Georgia O'Keefe comments upon meeting her, that she was \\"a chunky, gold-toothed, guttural-voiced woman\\". I still never figured out her supposed beauty.<br />I felt no connection with Lawrence. I don't know if it was the fault of the biographer or DH himself. He came off as a hypocritic man who tried to lord it over his friends. He never seemed to think they were good enough or smart enough to figure out what they wanted from their lives. He sacrificed many of his friends, such as that with Katherine Mansfield for his egomaniacal mannerisms. Some might say this is a symptom of genius. I believe that Lawrence was simply an above average writer, bordering on bad.	2003-10-25
US	47412112	R3R3R7SUG0315R	1591820316	603626647	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 7	Books	4	1	1	N	N	TERRORIST STUDENT	With a little help from his friends, GTO has scored first place in the national exams and reduced his psychotic enemy, his fellow teacher Mr. Teshigawara to a basket case. Miyabi, one of the only students who still can't stand GTO, decides to hatch a new plot. Pining away with a beer in a deserted park late at night, moping over the lack of a girlfriend, GTO sees a lovely nymphette pull herself out of the water and instantly falls in lust with her. Unfortunately for him, he will find out all too soon that she is Urumi Kanzaki, his new student, a former drop-out who specializes in destroying teacher careers. GTO has to find it in himself to win her heart and mind, even though in so doing, he might just lose his life to the Yakuza crime gangs.<br />Like the other books of this series, this one has its moments of outrageousness and wacky moments. That's ok. That's what GTO is all about.	2003-10-25
US	47412112	R2UZEGJLXPSKRM	0670885371	886873880	Joan of Arc	Books	4	2	5	N	N	SAINT OR CRAZY TRAIN?	One of the most famous woman warriors ever known was Joan of Arc. The only thing I really knew about her before reading this book was what was filtered through movies and oral legend. To me, there has always been a thin line between saying Joan was schizophrenic, or mentally deranged, or a charlatan, or a person who truly heard God. <br />From the outset Mary Gordon makes it clear that this is not a standard biography, but more a meditation on Joan of Arc. Joan was born into a time of petty squabbling amongst the nations of Europe. For example, there was a huge dispute going on in France as to who ruled there. Was it England or the French heir to the throne, Charles? After about a hundred years of war, they were no closer to settling the dispute. As in World War II, part of France sided with the invader armies of England. The other part sided with Charles. The problem was that Charles was almost bankrupt, demoralized, and unmotivated to seize any power or take any action.<br />Enter the rejuvenating force of Joan, a peasant girl who claimed that God had told her to crown Charles king of France. Instead of having the divine right to sit on his keester all day, Charles woke up to the fact that he just might have the divine right to RULE. While giving Joan symbolic power over his armies, she was mainly just seen as the mascot as she inspired French armies to throw the English out of Orleans, even though  she took part in the fighting. (She later dubiously claimed she never killed a man in battle). Gordon points out that anyone that leads merely by charisma is doomed to go downhill without victories and, after just a few victories, Joan suffers just that fate, is captured, and after a show trial reminescent of Stalin, burned at the stake for heresies against the Church. <br />In this biography, Gordon focuses more on the social force of Joan than a standard work would. Being such a short book, we did not get enough of the actual trial transcripts which were taken down as the events happened. To me, the introduction took up too much room, and the last chapter was just about literary works inspired by her. Gordon believes that Joan sticks out in the minds of Europe because she was a woman who threatened the male hierarchy. I don't mean to make this sound like Joan of Arc is a feminist book. <br />The reason why the English hated her so much was because they believed that women were inferior and it was shameful to lose a battle to her. So she had to be stopped. The church hated her because she went against conservative ideas. In that era, just as now, the Church was reactionary. It was dangerous that a person could speak directly with God. If that became the norm, what would the Church's reason to exist be? Even the king she helped crown was embarassed by his beholdeness to her and abandoned her to be executed without even lifting a voice in protest. Joan was too revolutionary a force to survive in an orthodox age. <br />The problems I had with her was that Joan seemed a little too much to enjoy the pomp or her position. She always wanted to look good, even in battle. She wanted nice lace capes etc. Ironically, she was captured by a soldier who was able to pull her off her horse by grabbing on to her cape. It seemed like she was some berserker fashion model. She wasn't very rational either, taking hundreds of troops to battle against thousands. She was a source of inspiration and could have done a good job as a figurehead but she wouldn't settle for that. I also have doubts that God would find any interest in whether France or England ruled each other or not. In the end, I believe that Joan either was delusional or made up the whole story of the voices, just as people today see the Virgin Mary in windows.	2003-10-19
US	47412112	R31Q7OOCOBHS5J	0812532007	330164669	As On A Darkling Plain	Books	3	7	8	N	N	FRIEND OR FOE....OR SOMETHING ELSE?	A team of scientists has gone to Titan, Saturn's largest moon,  to study alien structures that were abandoned thousands of years ago. Nobody can figure out what the function of them is, except that they are machines, and that they are still operational after millenia. Dr. Sydney Lee has a gut feeling that the purpose of the machines is not beneficial to humanity. In fact, he believes that the makers, known only as &quot;The Others&quot; have left them running in order to harm Earth. He is afraid that the aliens could come back, that they are our enemies. Feeling isolated and paranoid because nobody will believe him, at the beginning of the book he is just barely stopped from committing suicide. <br />Fast forward to a year later. Instead of waiting for The Others to return, the authorities on Earth have decided to send out fact finding missions to habitable star systems. Out of 40,000 candidates, only 80 will be selected to go on the missions, some of which will take years,decades even,  to fufill. After Lee checks out of a mental hospital, he is one of the few selected to go to Sirius. Going along with him is Marlene Ettinger, his former lover from the Titan mission. Although he had cut her out of his life, they are still in love, whether they want to be or not. Further complicating things is Dan O'Bannon, her current lover, who is helpless to do anything about her fixation on Lee. O'Bannon is being sent to Jupiter to look for signs of The Others. <br />As on a Darkling Plain had great characters. The love triangle was well done. They weren't the usual stupid sci-fi characters, which are usually the result of bad writing. The long journeys to find alien races reminded me of Haldeman's The Forever War, which actually came out about four years after this book. The only complaints I have is the implausibility of some of the alien life forms in the book. It also kinda puttered out at the end. Anti-climax. Well, it was a good book, withstanding those things.	2003-10-19
US	47412112	R1I57UL01ISHUR	0811213595	788241687	Colonel Chabert	Books	5	7	7	N	N	TRAGEDY DISTILLED	One of the greatest novelists of all time, Balzac was most at home in the Paris of Post-Napoleonic Paris. In a time when the middle class was showing its strength and starting to reach towards the aristocracy, Balzac shows just how selfish and grubby and greedy humans can be in attaining and how treacherous they can be in keeping their all important upward mobility. <br />Colonel Chabert is a man disfigured in the Napoleonic Wars who was left for dead on a battlefield. After digging his way out of a mass grave, he finds that he has no legal right to his title or his massive estate. Nobody will believe his true identity. For ten longe years he goes about trying to communicate his plight to anyone who will listen. They only see a crazy bum, and his wife rebuffs his letters. She already has a new husband and kids. Finally Chabert is able to convince a lawyer named Dervilles to accept his case, namely that of reclaiming his title, lands, and wife. The problem is that noone is really interested in his life being resurrected. Most people would rather that he remained dead. So begins the ludicrous battle of a man against the law to prove his own existence. <br />This short but great novel, or novella, is a tragic take on the world's thirst for  social status and the judgement by visuals that our society is only too guilty of to this day. If it walks like a bum, talks like a bum, it must be a bum. Colonel Chabert has such a hard time convincing people of his identity because of how they perceive him. It sounds echoes of Frankenstein in that a good man is reduced to a monster when all he really needs is love. The fact that even his wife wishes he were dead just drives home the isolated suffering of the book. As in all Balzac novels, you feel a world moving under the mantle of the book. The Human Comedy of Balzac is one of the crowning achievements of literature and ranks right up there with Shakespeare and Thomas Hardy.	2003-10-08
US	47412112	RU7G0EZO9OHZA	1591820308	969869652	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 6	Books	4	3	3	N	N	BRING ON THE TEST	A political action committee has heard bad things about GTO and so its president decides to lead a fact finding mission to the school. At school, GTO just happens to be wearing a elephant head tutu to class and squirts water from its trunk (very freudian) into the presidents face. To prove GTO's incompetence, the principal decides to make him take the national scholastic achievement test, a test that his students take 3 times a year. If he fails it, it will prove once and for all that he is dumber than his students and he will be fired. He should pass it easy, right? Well, GTO IS dumber than his students. He decides to just give up but then his fellow teacher (who is secretly in love with him), Azusa, invites him to sleep with....I mean at her place so she can help him study. Meanwhile, on the side, his new enemy from volume 5, Teshigawara, continues to get him out of the way so he can stalk Azusa. The humiliated president of the committee has a daughter who wants to make GTO her love slave. If that's not enough, GTO has to take on the Japanese mob. <br />Volume 6 was better than the last one because by the end of it, we get a lot more action and humor instead of sentimentality.	2003-10-06
US	47412112	R3OMTBY53LEMQY	0375413952	543388227	Dear Mr. President	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A REVELATION	Wow, Dear Mr. President is a story collection that heralds the arrival of a great new writer! Gabe Hudson, to me, is the first writer that signals a transition of generations from war fiction about Vietnam to the group of young people who fought in the first Iraqi War. Due to the overinundation of books like Tom Brokaw's The Greatest Generation and the almost God-like worship of writers like Ambrose, the soldiers of wars after that (Korea,Vietnam,Iraq) are not given the attention and respect that they deserve. In Dear Mr. President, we are not treated to the super, almost soviet style citizen of the fatherland that Ambrose glorified in his books, but men and women who are bashed and broken and absurd and humorous and insane and brave and trying to do the best they can. <br />In &quot;The Cure as I Found It&quot;, a soldier returned from the Gulf War must decide if the rules he learned in the special forces, namely to maim and kill, can be used against a neighborhood bully as he deals with the horrors of war in his nightmares.<BR>Among the best stories is &quot;Sneak and Peek Outside Baghdad&quot; about a reconaissance mission which finds that the worst aspects of American hip-hop culture have transferred to Iraq even as one soldier remembers his lover left in the US. &quot;Those Words Were Yours Not Mine&quot; is about a blind woman named Valerie Hackett, whose 19 year old son is killed in the War. On his person is found a letter which she can't read. After asking a lot of people to read it to her, she senses that they are all lying to her, concealing the dreadful contents from her. So she hires someone at the hospital she's staying in to read it and learns about her son's disastrous marriage, of infidelity and betrayal. The last story, a novella called &quot;Notes from a Bunker Along Highway 8&quot; is a plea for peace and brotherhood as a Green Beret, shocked by the blood and guts he sees, gathers up a wounded comrade and abandons the war, holding up in a bunker with a bunch of lab apes, venturing out to the surface to help out wounded civilians and keeping his friend a virtual prisoner in his insane fantasies. <br />This was a great great book. The stories are funny, horrible, psycho, and masterful at times. He writes like Chuck Palahniuk, if Chuck had something to write about. Gabe has a war. With war comes atrocity, insanity, and absurdity. It's about time someone not only caught up to history, but overtaken it. Ironically, just as this book comes out, we are again engaged in Iraq (some would say we were never disengaged) and so the very issues the men and women deal with in this book might as well be set in the present. Hudson might just evolve into a great writer. We'll see.	2003-10-05
US	47412112	RYOWGHOSXMM2R	1591820294	956244106	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 5	Books	3	1	6	N	N	HELPING THE DUMMY	Yes, that's right, GTO is back and shows a soft side in this fifth volume. His dim-witted student, Tomoko, or as her classmates call her, Slo-mo-ko, has been dissed and treated as a slave by her so-called friends. GTO decides to help her become all she can be by becoming her producer and all around promoter. Her first gig is to enter a contest to become a model for an city park ad campaign. Also in this volume we have the continued campaign of the school principal to fire GTO even as he continues his perverted behavior of touching women improperly on the subway. We are also introduced to one of GTO's fellow teachers, Teshigawara, who just happens to be slightly insane, who just happens to be obsessed with Azusa Fuyutsuki, who just happens to be in love with GTO, even though she wont admit it to herself. The GTO series continues to entertain but is beginning to lack the edge that it started with in favor of sentimentality.	2003-10-02
US	47412112	RVMVZXX6FRGER	0689110146	379468814	Notes from the Castle: Poems	Books	4	1	1	N	N	LOCK ME UP WITH THIS BOOK	Notes From the Castle is the tenth book of poetry by Howard Moss, a National Book Award winner and poetry editor of The New Yorker. This volume was published in 1979. <br />This book is beautiful, containing elegies for the environment along with forward looking comments on film and pop culture that were prophetic. For example in &quot;The Long Island Night&quot; he writes that:<br />Certain famous phrases of our time<BR>Have taken on the glitter of poems,<BR>Like &quot;Catch me before I kill again,&quot;<BR>And &quot;Why are you sitting in the dark alone?&quot;<br />Through these lines Moss is saying that poetry has been undercut by other media, such as film and TV. Where once people could quote lines of poetry to match their life situations, now people quote their favorite sitcoms or actor, which I don't think he sees as totally negative. <br />Moss captures the urban sprawl of our cities in &quot;News from the Border&quot; comparing the windows of skyscrapers to honeycombs and to &quot;a tray of ice-cubes with, each with its own sniper&quot;. Of course this has a deeper emotional impact to us. <br />The idea that really stands out in this volume is the inclination for people to fail in realizing their dreams due to the coldness or downright violent nature of our society, which at its best can only numb us. Like a character named Ms. Minerva in &quot;Border&quot; who worries that &quot;One day...is so like another that one will come when I won't even try at all.&quot; Moss does encourage us to &quot;make it through the muddle&quot; in our lives and in the end Moss comes close to joining the pantheon of poets who actually inspire us to live in a reality higher than this Earth.	2003-09-29
US	47412112	R14JT51TCDFGGL	1931514968	795160757	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 2	Books	5	3	3	N	N	STEP UP TO THE MIC	This second volume of GTO elevates Eikichi Onizuka to the level of superhero as he breaks down the barriers between one of his students he taught during his training and her alienated parents and gives them hope for a better future. He's finally ready to get his first job as a teacher but a problem arises on the bus to his interview. As he is looking at a woman's [posterior] and thinks about grabbing her, some other pervert beats him to it, and ironically, Onizuka ends up defending her honor by delivering a nasty blow to his face. Onizuka comes to find out that the woman, Azusa Fuyutsuki, is interviewing at the same school as him and the person he hit is the prinicipal doing the hiring. Not a very auspicious start. <br />This second book was as good if not better than the first. The plot and characters become a little more deep as GTO must confront some more profound issues than just simply lusting after young girls. What really comes out in this volume is the sense of his goodness which lurks behind the posturing youth. We also find that his reason for teaching is transforming into that of helping the kids instead of sleeping with them.  Great read.	2003-09-23
US	47412112	RGMB29QD0J5JW	1931514496	788138303	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 3	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE GREAT REFORMATION	After being hired at the Holy Forest Academy by being handpicked by the chairperson that runs the school, GTO gets his first assignment. His homeroom is CLASS FOUR, the worst class that has ever come through the halls of the school. It has run off many a teacher, even caused one to be institutionalized. This third volume mainly has to do with the duel going on between GTO and this class. <br />At first, he thinks they're not that bad, but when a computer altered pornographic photo of GTO is pasted all over the school he decides to get even. <br />This series just gets better and better. This volume highlights the deception and the cruelty of young minds when they have no guidance. It also marks the beginnings of friendship between GTO and some of his students. He cleverly uses their own methods against them.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-09-23
US	47412112	R2SLDSSU0W44JB	1931514933	770482074	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 1	Books	5	8	8	N	N	REALITY MANGA STYLE	Great Teacher Onizuka, or GTO, for short, is one of the most popular mangas going, with over 37 million copies sold worldwide. I wouldn't really expect that, seeing as how it focuses on the life of a teacher. If you can imagine a cross between Marlon Brando as the Wild One and the beatnik attitude of Jack Kerouac along with the cool hipness of Japanese youth as a teacher. While being brillantly subversive, GTO succeeds as both entertainment and satire of the teaching establishment, much as Chaucer lampooned the Church in his Canterbury Tales.<br />Eikichi Onizuka is the 22 year old ex-leader of a biker gang who has found out that he's not going to be able to goof off his whole life. He has to find a job. Having a fetish for young girls in uniform, he decides to become a teacher. He finds out that his impulsive decision is going to take a lot more courage than he thought. This first volume is basically his origin story as he is disappointed by his dreams of becoming something great and having to reevaluate his life as he begins his teacher training. It also begins a pattern that will continue in the following books, namely that he has to use his wits to escape the plots of hateful students and a vice-principal who would like nothing more than to fire him. <br />This book was great. What can I say? If you are a teacher, you'll really get a kick out of seeing a cartoon character fulfill your wishes. Who doesn't want to karate kick their bonehead students sometimes? While Onizuka's attraction to high school girls seems lurid, we find out that he becomes overwhelmed with trying to help his students rather than wanting to seduce them in the end. I think it's just a Japanese thing to be attracted to girls in school uniforms. I think anyone with a sense of humor and semi-lewdness would find these manga entertaining and funny. I would especially recommend it to teachers.	2003-09-23
US	47412112	R1C86BFAUPKUC1	1591820286	412855117	GTO: Great Teacher Onizuka, Vol. 4	Books	4	2	2	N	N	REVENGE OF GTO	After surviving a assasination plot by his homeroom (they tried to mix a cockroach into his food), GTO's job is in trouble. In the previous volume GTO helped one of his students named Noboru Yoshikawa take revenge on a trio of girls who abused and humiliated him. One of the girls told her influential mom about what he did and she is out for his blood. After that crisis Gto continues to try to win over the hearts and minds of Class 4, especially the constant hostility of its ringleader, Kunio Murai. It doesn't help that he has a thing for Kunio's young and beautiful mother. The thing about Gto that makes it funny is that he considers himself a pervert but he's nothing compared to the principal who longs for his own daughter or the track coach who is just there to check out girl's legs. Put into the mileiu of what he THINKS he is, Gto finds out that his lust is replaced by caring for his students. Another volume in a very entertaining series.	2003-09-23
US	47412112	R2LYJFQE0R860K	159116026X	84064288	Phoenix: A Tale Of The Future	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A DYING EARTH	In the year 3404 A.D., the earth and its civilizations are on their last legs. There are only 5 human cities left and those have moved underground where, in an effort to stem despair, they have been dubbed the &quot;eternal capitals&quot;. Enter Space Patrolman Masato who is in love with a shape-shifting and mind altering alien named Tamimi. Her race has been outlawed on Earth because the authorities fear that humans, if subjected to the moopie dream state, will become lethargic lotus eaters. <br />Masato is ordered to kill Tamimi but refuses and flees with her to the surface world where they run into the hermit Dr. Saruta, a brillant scientist whose vision of a flaming phoenix might just hold the future rebirth of a new Earth within it. In the meantime, Masato's old boss, Roc, becomes obsessed with hunting down the fugitives. <br />Some of the blurbs on this book refer to it as &quot;mind-blowing&quot; and &quot;awesome&quot; etc.,  like the effect of a psychadelic drug. While I wouldn't go that far, Phoenix does go a long way past 99% of comics being produced today. While it takes a bit to get used to the cartoonish figures within, it really grabs a hold of you. Tezuka is trying to craft an almost future history of the Earth with deep philisophical themes which make the characters at the beginning of the book seem almost trivial. On the other hand, it strengthens the relationship between Masato and Tamimi by showing the fragility of human life when compared to the life of a universe. <br />I admire Tezuka for attempting to grapple with such deep issues in a comic form. This book is actually the 2nd volume of a 12 volume series which is only just now being published in America.	2003-09-14
US	47412112	R2YDS49C19OXV5	1931514917	644893028	Cowboy Bebop # 1	Books	2	4	5	N	N	A LITTLE CONFUSING	I am a big fan of Cowboy Bebop so I was highly disappointed when I read this manga produced by Yutaka Nanten and Hajime Yatate. It seemed to be missing all the elements of the anime that made the series a classic. <br />There are 4 stories in this first book. \\"It's Showtime\\" is about the conflict that occurs when the Bebop crew tries to work alone but finds out that all their seperate bounties are all in the same place at the same time. In \\"We Will Rock You\\" Spike has to infiltrate and find a bounty already in prison, if that makes any sense? A rich man becomes so bored in the next story that he puts a bounty on himself to add spice to his life in \\"Cheap Trick\\". \\"Black Diamond\\" is the last story in which Faye Valentine becomes the hunted.<br />There were 2 things working against this book. The stories seemed contrived and lazily written. The whole reason the anime was successful was because it never went down a previously trodden path. This manga was like a hollywood production of Bebop. Superficial and dumb. Another thing working against it was the art itself. When action occurs the artist doesn't draw it coherently. Half the time, I was wondering exactly what went on in a panel because it was so unclear. Also, the book really wasn't funny and lacked the Bebop trademark humor of intelligence and irony and sarcasm. It seemed like it was written by someone who had never seen the show...	2003-09-14
US	47412112	R16QYL35AAVJVL	1931514488	82031863	Cowboy Bebop, Book 2	Books	1	2	6	N	N	AN INSULT TO BEBOP	This second volume of the 1st Bebop manga series suffers from the same, if not worse, problems than book 1. This time around we have 5 bad stories instead of 4. \\"She's a Rainbow\\" is about a news reporter dying to get her first big break by following a group of bounty hunters around. Unfortunately, our Bebop crew is lucky when they have someone to hunt down to take them away from their empty stomachs and constant bickering with one another. Not exactly newsworthy. \\"Great Deceiver\\" is about Faye having to track down an old friend. The totally useless \\"Special Short\\" is about Jet catching a cold. Wow. \\"Thinking Bird Happy Song\\" involves Ed's interference with a hitman and a duel between old men's songbirds. \\"Like a Rolling Stone\\" showcases Spike as he enlists the aid of a cafe singer to find a bounty.<br />What can I say, these stories were awful. Even the titles were a pale imitation of the anime. The whole book felt lifeless. They weren't funny or entertaining in the least. It's a real shame that this series exists. It's almost an insult to the creators of the show. These characters have so much appeal and had room for development. I'm not even going to bother reading the 3rd and last volume. I recommend you read the two volumes of the Shooting Star series which tells the story of the Bebop crew from a slightly what-if like perspective.	2003-09-14
US	47412112	R24WZRCU5NHDL	0679742565	638485358	The Game: A Novel	Books	5	23	25	N	N	GET REAL	Julia, a writer,  and Cassandra, an Oxford professor, are two sisters pushing into their 40s that have been estranged for 20 years ever since a man named Simon Moffit came between them and then disappeared from their lives. One day as they are watching television they learn that Simon has now become a naturalist similar to the Crocodile Hunter who likes to get close to dangerous animals in their native habitat. Simon is also coming back to England after being away filming his documentaries and back into the two sister's lives. Julia has gotten married in the meantime and has a child that looks suspiciously like Simon while Cassandra has tried to distance herself from reality, shying from human interaction, cocooned in her office at Oxford. Simon's return will force both of the sisters to examine the loss of their childhood bond when they played an imaginary game, a la the Bronte sisters, in which they chronicled the exploits of knights and ladies to make the time go by. They will also have to figure out their feelings for Simon after spending half their life pining for what has become a man they know now only through tv images and imagination and memories.<br />This was A.S. Byatt's second novel, published in 1967, the summer of love and all that business. It is a masterful work. Julia runs into trouble when she writes a book about Simon and Cassandra and all the mess they went through. Both sisters begin to question whether their lives have become fiction or whether the fictions they made up as kids have become their lives. It is an interesting question for a writer's second work and one which I've seen taken up by Dostoyevsky. The Game is really about whether other people's perceptions of us is stronger than our own self-image. It illustrates what happens to those who are strong enough to shake that image and those weak enough to have their personalities shaped by those they love. <br />I had always known of Byatt by reputation but this is the first book I have read by her. I am very happy that she did not disappoint and look forward to reading the works of her maturity.	2003-09-14
US	47412112	R2XTCFMGQF5O1Z	0743255976	335892424	Pieces of Intelligence: The Existential Poetry of Donald H. Rumsfeld	Books	2	15	36	N	N	FUNNY OR FRIGHTENING?	Love him or hate him, Donald Rumsfeld, our current <BR>Secretary of State, is one of the most influential men in Bush Jr.'s cabinet. This little ditty of a book will satisfy Republicans with a sense of humor and Democrats with a sense of hatred. People with more independent minds will be amused at some of the &quot;poems&quot; in here but mostly bored after a while. <br />Hart Seely has taken various interviews or speeches that Rumsfeld has given in the past years and broken up the lines into poetry. From what I read on the book jacket, Seely seems to have made a lucrative career out of taking free domain information and then making tons of money off of it. <br />Lots of the poems in here make Rumsfeld sound senile, dumb, or just plain insensitive. For example, there is a poem called &quot;Of Looters and Vases&quot; in which he humorously comments on video images of Iraqi looters taking vases from a store. Rumsfeld states &quot;My goodness, Were there that many vases?....In the whole country?&quot;. A lot of the poems play into his prima donna image and also the myth in the opening stages of the war that Iraq was going to be a democratic paradise. In one poem, he actually wonders &quot;What in the world am I doing here?&quot; I wonder the same question. This book just brings into glaring resolution the incomprehesion of his policies with other nations. It seems lately that his star is falling for the very same smugness and illogic that is on exhibit here in this book.<br />Will make a good Christmas gift, if Rumsfeld is still in his office by Christmas.	2003-09-10
US	47412112	RFTHYHZNPM2LG	1563896915	511830578	Will Eisner Reader: Seven Graphic Stories by a Comics Master (Will Eisner Library)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	A MINOR WORK	This book consists of 7 comic stories from Will Eisner's Quarterly. The only sparkling story in the collection is the first, entitled \\"A Sunset in Sunshine City\\" in which an old retired cafeteria owner retires to a condo in Florida to spend the rest of his days with a newly made female friend. The problem is that his daughter's husband is involved in some bad business deals and needs money. So he schemes along with his wife to wrest his fortune from the old man. <br />The other stories range from unfunny to cliched to just plain silly. Especially bad is \\"Humans\\", in which Eisner's ill-suited style is put to use chronicling our human-like ancestors as they hunt a mastadon and learn the value of cooperation. You can see the endings of most of the stories before they come. They're trite. I would not recommend this to even the most die-hard Eisner fan. Seek your entertainment elsewhere.	2003-09-08
US	47412112	R347EK5V5PIWX9	0385506279	978807396	Country of Cold: Stories of Sex and Death	Books	3	2	2	N	N	COLLECTION FIZZLES OUT BY THE END	Country of Cold is a short story collection that suffers from the identity crisis of trying to be a novel. It features the same cast of characters who interact with each other over the course of the book. I have read books built on the same mode and they seem to be attempts by writers who do not feel confident enough in either the novel or short story mode to commit to either. Consequently, works like this suffer from the weaknesses of both genres with the strength of neither. I only remember some of the stories vaguely, even though I finished this book 2 days ago. I know most of them were about people struggling against their lives and the burden of it, but the stories are so busy tying into each other that they are hard-pressed to stand alone as works of art or in the memory. <br />Patterson introduces characters in one story only to be forgotten about until a hundred pages later by which time the supposed impact of a revealed secret about them holds no power because you no longer remember anything about the character. To me, the best stories in the &quot;collection&quot;, or &quot;novel&quot;, or whatever it is, were the ones where Patterson writes in the style of a cold-blooded scientist as in the story &quot;Insomnia, Infidelity, and the Leopard Seal&quot;. Patterson, who was a doctor in the Canadian Army describes all 3 mentioned in the above title and ties them into a profound view of life. As a writer, Patterson has potential, but Country of Cold should be read as a stepping stone or an introduction instead of an important contribution.	2003-09-08
US	47412112	R1AG93GUEOKYME	0345311949	813706617	The Stars, Like Dust	Books	2	1	5	N	N	THE RULE OF THE TYRANNI	The Tyranni have ruled over the defeated Nebular Kingdoms for 50 years, but the first rumblings of rebellion are beginning to be felt. Vigilant for traitors, the Tyranni arrest the Rancher of Widemos, the leader of the planet Nephelos. On a nuclear war ravaged Earth, his son, Biron Farril, becomes the target of an assination attempt which is only thwarted by a friend named Jonti. Jonti advises him to leave Earth and travel to the planet Rhodia, whose ruler is friendly with the Tyranns and thus might have more influence and success in protecting Biron. <br />Isaac Asimov is not a writer known for his passion or breathtaking action. His novels, to me at least, are mental exercises and this one is no exception. Most of the book is people driving spaceships, waiting in rooms, bickering amongst themselves. Biron and his love interest seem like a poor man's Han and Leia. The ending of the book can be seen a light year away and is one of the stupidest I have ever encountered. <br />I wish I had more to say about this book. It is the first in a trilogy of Galactic Empire Novels set in the time before the Foundation. I guess it was ok. I'll probably read the other 2 just to get it done with.	2003-08-24
US	47412112	R2ROSOUP7FMWON	0140442375	953188384	The Black Sheep (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	51	53	N	N	BRING ON THE IRONY	In his preface to this book, Balzac makes an interesting observation about 19th century France that seems to be a preoccupation of our century as well. Balzac states that young men who grow up without a significant male role model are destined to have a rough go in life. According to him, most of the tribulations that occur in The Black Sheep stem from the very fact that there was no father to steer the Bridau family.<br />The main focus of the book is upon two brothers, Philippe and Joseph Bridau, whose father has died, leaving their close to destitute mother to raise them. Phillipe ends up becoming an artist with a pretty dependable income. Joseph serves in Napoleon's army for a while until his final defeat and then, too proud to serve under the new government, becomes an unemployed gambler who steals money from his family only to throw it away at the tables. <br />You would think that their mother would favor Joseph with more love because he looks out for their family and provides a steady income and is completely devoted to her. She puts all of her love upon Phillipe, the ne'er do well who only sees humanity as a tool to further his own ends. She does this because she sees Joseph's profession as a painter as a waste of time in her practical mind. Real men become soldiers like Phillipe. So what if he's a vice filled man? She idealizes him so much that she can't see his faults. <br />Balzac is a genius. There really isn't a central character is this work. Everytime you think Balzac has settled upon a particular cast of characters, he exits them and enters a new set to interact with the plot. Constant reinvention. While Joseph is in jail for plotting against the government, Phillipe and his mother have to go rescue his rich uncle, who is being hoodwinked out of his fortune (a fortune, by the way, that the Bridau family is due to inherit) by a manipulating mistress and her lover. <br />This was a great novel. Not perfect, but great. Balzac is to me the most modern of the 19th century novelists writing in the Victorian age. He is not sentimental like Dickens. He was great at watching families squirming to get at money. Squirming to get money not for survival in most cases, but to attain status. All of the characters in this novel were drawn really well. Very strong. I would recommend any of the Penguin Editions of Balzac if you like this book.	2003-08-24
US	47412112	RIA86JY33RP56	1563897555	872232128	Minor Miracles (Will Eisner Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	SIMPLY  WONDERFUL	Too often, comic books fall under the umbrella of mindless entertainment that one should dismiss as frivolous. I mean, it's not really an art form like painting or literature. I disagree with that. Well, Will Eisner takes a step into making comics an art form to rival those fields with this graphic novel (a form, by the way, that he is credited for having created). <br />Minor Miracles is a nostalgic look back to the New York of Eisner's childhood. The stories told within are mainly made up of tales told to him by his family about certain characters in the neighborhood. The stories range from the most trivial such as a young man outwitting a gang of bullies, to a fable of a rich relative finding out that a bum is his uncle. He gets him back on his feet by letting him run one of his stores, only to find their roles reversed later on. One of the best stories in the book is called \\"A New Kid on the Block\\" in which a boy with no name comes to the neighborhood, and like the Who's Tommy, spreads peace and love until soul-less bureaucrats hunt him down. Also great was a story of a crippled man and a blind mute woman being pushed into marriage by their families and finding that there is love in the world. Until she regains her sight, that is. <br />Some of these stories, if written without the pictures, would be moving. With the addition of the art though, it really blew me away. It's cool that an artist such as Eisner is still cranking out important work. Some of these stories were poignant and others minor, but the overall experience was one that I need to have again. It touched on some deep themes, such as loneliness, the superficiality of our society, and the need for us to see the beauty in every event, be it good or tragic. This book was a minor miracle. I look forward to reading Eisner's other work.	2003-08-10
US	47412112	RN2UNKDDAYJS4	0679730249	841433099	Diary of a Mad Old Man	Books	3	3	3	N	N	THIS OLD MAN, HE'S A PLAYER	Junichiro Tanizaki is one of the most brillant Japanese writers of the last century. While best known for his family drama The Makioka Sisters, a lot of his books have to do with subjects more at home to Henry Miller. Tanizaki is a master of illustrating sexual obsession in novels that would be erotic if they weren't so haunted and disturbed.<br />The Diary of an Mad Old Man is kept by 77-year-old Utsugi as he is recovering from an earlier stroke which left him impotent with countless ailments that the elderly experience. Impossibly, he does find a way to have a sex life. His daughter, Satsuko, just happens to be young and beautiful, and Utsugi begins to lust for her more and more. He even tries to live out his fantasy by allowing Satsuko to rendezvous with her lover in his house, concealing the affair from his own son. By allowing Utsugi certain liberties with her body, Satsuko begins to replace his own family. For example, his daughter asks for a loan so that she can buy a house and Utsugi refuses her. He turns around and buys Satsuko a ring worth millions of yen. What follows is a slow dance, almost a tango of give and take in which neither Utsugi or Satsuko is the villain of the piece. They seem to actually GAIN by the immoral situation. They both get what they want.<br />Diary was a really good novel but it wasn't a great one compared with previous novels by Tanizaki that I have read. Sometimes the narrative dwells on boring details, but once it gets moving it picks up some power. To me, one of the hardest modes to write in is first person but the author really keeps the diary interesting. While I don't know if I would compare the characterization to that of Shakespeare, there is something of his comedy and tragedy in Tanizaki. Also seek out The Key and Quicksand.	2003-08-04
US	47412112	R1N3VLWAMHRNVU	1591822971	355911699	Cowboy Bebop: Shooting Star, Book 1	Books	4	0	1	N	N	WHAT IF?	The 2 volume Shooting Star storyline by manga writer and artist Cain Kuga uses most of the same characters as the Cowboy Bebop anime series but places them in alternative situations and gives them slightly different origins. <br />This first volume introduces the entire Cowboy Bebop crew as if the previous anime and manga never existed in 5 stand-alone stories, or \\"shoots\\". In the first, Spike and and Jet are hired to find a renegade body double of an organized crime boss. In the second we are introduced to Edward. The third story brings Ein into the picture. In the fourth story the crew are sent to catch The Scorpion, a dangerous Dragon Head general who escaped from the prison planet of Pluto. The last story introduces the always ravishing Faye Valentine as she attempts to steal the Bebop. <br />I liked these stories. I think the idea of the series was to start afresh without being bogged down by backstory. It worked because none of the characters were scrapped really. It was the same old bebop with subtle differences. They didn't have any of the dark tragedy that to me seemed to plague some of the later Bebop sessions. If you're a fan you'll enjoy these, and if you've never read Bebop before you could start here. I have no idea why the second volume of Shooting Star is not availible here at Amazon. I would highly recommend the Sessions and movie on DVD and the previous manga trilogy that came before Shooting Star.	2003-07-31
US	47412112	R26W277LZMFBTR	1887178740	661041325	Afterwards	Books	2	2	7	N	N	WHY DON'T YOU DIE?	Hal Costigan seemed to have it all, he was a candidate for Congress, smart, with a nice wife and kid. He was friendly and charming and his future seemed boundless. That was before he started an affair with Dolores Lenci. Dolores just happens to be a 17 year old high schooler. After the affair becomes public, Hal kills himself. All of his families and Dolores' dreams come crashing down with him. <br />His wife Isobel moves out of town, taking their son with her. His brother Cort wonders why the best people seem to have the most tragic end and cannot come to terms with the realities of the world. His sister Naomi, who always took care of her brother, enters into a disastrous marriage. Dolores, the young schoolgirl Hal had an affair with, begins a cycle of dating older men which always end the same as the first. Bad. She loses her uniqueness with the death of Hal. <br />This book is mainly about the effect of a death of a person who represented all that was best about a family and how the curse of his death continues to bring more harm than his living ever would. The problem is that it goes on and on about it without any of the characters achieving any enlightenment about life. They just continue on in whatever mess they were in before. The book covers years of time after Hal's death in which these almost parasites of him just seem to take up breathing space. It needed a stronger character. When your strongest character is a dead man who never appears in the novel, then you're in trouble. It was like reading 140 pages of a funeral oration. This book was originally published under the title Conference of Victims in 1962 and it was very apt. None of the characters had any life of their own and so become victimized by the loss of the life they led through Hal. <br />This book was fair but nothing special. I don't know if this was Gina's first book but it felt like it. Since then she has acquired many awards like the Pen/Faulkner and The National Book Critic's Circle Awardfor a book of short stories. I would not recommend this work.	2003-07-31
US	47412112	R3U5QSB7JUXOAN	0152050167	991934744	The Whale Rider	Books	1	69	99	N	N	GO SEE THE MOVIE INSTEAD	Like most people that will come to this book, I saw the movie version first and was so impressed by it that I went to the bookstore as fast as I could to get the novel of it. Was I ever disappointed by it. I knew I was in trouble when in the first paragraph I read the simile \\"the mountains were like a stairway to heaven\\". The whole stairway to heaven bit is just the first in a long line of cliches in this book that are the trademark of lazy and unimaginative writers. I'll get to the rest later but this is one of the few times where the movie is better than the book.<br />The Whale Rider centers on a Maori tribe in Whangara, New Zealand whose traditions are threatened by the same thing that threatens all cultures. Forgetfullness. There are no traditions unless they are passed down from one generation to the next. The aging chief, named Koro Apirana, has a son named Porourengi who will take over after his death. The problem is that he worries about the generation after since Porouangi has a daughter instead of a hoped for son. Koro wants the bloodline to continue through sons, not daughters. So he scorns the girl-child, who is given the name Kahu. He is outraged by this name because it is the ancient name of the mythical figure from whom the whole tribe is descended. This figure was the friend of whales and rode on their backs and knew their language. Like King Arthur, he vowed that in its time of greatest need, he would return to help his people. Kahu might just be that returning savior who could join Nature and Man together again, but how will she attain the position when she has to constantly strive against the sexism of her great-grandfather who says he has no use for her an does not allow her to learn the ways of the tribe?<br />Unlike the movie, where the main character is Kahu, the main narrator of the book is Rawiri, who is Koro's second son, and who was portrayed in the movie as an overweight drunk. In the book, he is sort of a bad boy who is in a motorcyclegang but he respects tradition and is Kahu's appointed protector. Kahu is almost a minor character in the novel. She flits in and out of the plot but she's not in the spotlight as such until the closing chapters. Kahu's father also plays a smaller role than in the film.<br />Why did I dislike this book? Because when I seek the book a film was based on, I seek it because in novels you are supposed to get far deeper meanings than you can get from an image on a screen. You should be able to get more backstory, more characterization, more thought. I got none of these things from reading the novel. It was dull and boring. The characters were lifeless. They had no inner life. There was some use of whales as characters in the book and they talk using completely human words like \\"radiation\\" and \\"data-banks\\" which totally went against the whole in tune with nature thing to me and became goofy. The book was emotionless. It had no heart. As Bill and Ted would say, it was \\"most untriumphant\\". If I had read the book before I had seen the movie, I would not have gone to see it. That's how bad this book was.<br />To me, weirdly enough, the film has more story to it, and the screenwriters did a brillant job. They made the story BETTER if you can believe it. Go see the film! It was one of the most brillant movies I have ever seen. The acting is superb, especially the girl that plays Kahu. I really admire the filmmakers for turning an awful book into one of the most beautiful films I've ever seen. Avoid this book. The novelization of the film Dude, Where's my Car? would be better than reading this. I was so disappointed.	2003-07-29
US	47412112	R1OYDDQ4VBU4X8	0140154078	816088736	The Music of Chance	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A FLIP OF THE CARDS	Paul Auster is a writer right out of the Twilight Zone mode of writing. His novels always mix realism and fantasy, and I don't mean of the sword bearing barbarian type. His work with its questions of the meaning of reality and identity seem even more prophetic in an age where personas can be switched and stolen and the faceless inhabit the Internet. <br />Originally published in 1990, The Music of Chance is about Jim Nashe, a fireman in his early thirties whose wife has just walked out on him. Following close on the heels of that event is the death of Jim's father, who he really doesn't mourn because they didn't have a lot of contact anyway. The good thing about his death is that his father has willed him $200,000. Finally feeling a sense of freedom from work, and leaving his young daughter behind at a relative's, he buys a new car and wanders the roads of America for a year. <br />With his money down to $14,000, he begins to feel he has lost his purpose and all the anxieties of his uncertain future come crashing down on him. It's then that he encounters a young hitcher named Jack Pozzi who claims to be the greatest card player of all time and who has a poker game set up with two rich \\"suckers\\" in which he could rake in a great deal of money. The problem is, that's the thing that Pozzi doesn't have. So Nashe agrees to back him in the game with the last of his money, on the hope that he can fund his further wanderings. When the game doesn't go as planned, Nashe and Pozzi are forced to build a wall of 15th century stone in order to pay off their debt even as they seek for the meaning of their lives and the motives of their overseers.<br />This was a good novel. It has all the hallmarks of an Auster work: odd coencidences, luminous writing, beauty and strangeness, odd, with tads of surrealism. I don't know how he comes up with his ideas, but hopefully, he'll keep them coming. His genius is that he can take the form of a conventional novel and turn it into something new. You really feel as though you're inhabiting a different world when you read his books.	2003-07-28
US	47412112	R1N6A6B6GU4AIR	0813340780	752120823	The Stakes: America And The Middle East	Books	4	7	7	N	N	WHY DO THEY HATE US?	I think we all know what Shibley Telhami is addressing in the title of this book. It's not just terrorism that we have to worry about. Countries such as Saudi Arabia have about 2/3 of the worlds oil reserves which, no matter what we say, we are partially dependent on. What is at stake is a whole generation of young Arabs and Muslims who can grow up hating America or having a positive view of it. <br />I think one of the questions a lot of Americans asked after 9/11 was how could a group hate us enough to kill thousands of innocent people, and by extension of that, why does the Middle East hate us so much? That is one of the questions Telhami tries to answer in The Stakes. After doing surveys in Muslim countries, and also, in some European countries, like France, Telhami came up with a surprising answer. He found that they hold resentment towards our foreign policy, not our belief system. Much like Bush said our war wasn't with the Iraqi \\"people\\" but with its regime, most of them have a problem with the policies of our presidents or our congress. They have a more favorable view of our belief system. Well, that's not counting the religious fundamentalists. <br />Telhami thinks that a huge part of the friction between us and middle eastern states is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Whoa, that's a big surprise, isn't it? Even as I write this, meetings have resumed in Israel between the two parties. Hopefully, there will be a peace in our time. Because the Arabs, or at least some, view themselves as one people. They see the victimization of the Palestinians as an oppression of all Arabs. The author believes that until this is settled, and as long as we blindly back Israel, there will never be a complete ease in relations with Middle East nations. In fact, according to surveys he conducted, America could improve its image among Arabs and Muslims almost 100% if it could broker a lasting and just peace between the two parties. God, what a relief that would be.<br />Telhamiis not gentle about our dependence on Middle Eastern oil. Even though in the short term we can look to other nations for oil, most of the reserves that will be used in the future are located in the Middle East. In the future, as oil becomes more scarce, that area of the world will become even more important than it is now. So we had better do something about our image now. <br />One of the other things that Telhami writes about is whether or not we should even care about public opinion in the Middle East. The answer is yes. The only reason we get by now is because in most middle eastern countries there is a military strongman to oppress his people when they try to speak their mind. In Pakistan, Egypt, and other countries, most opposition is put down mercilessly. The fact is that if most Middle Eastern countries became democracies overnight, they would be violently opposed to the US. If we truly want rule by the people in these nations, we need to improve our image. <br />This is a good book. It's informative and comes to some sound conclusions. Yes, the US has great power, but it needs to work on its public relations in the middle east. Even a terror organization such as Hamas has a good image among the Palestinians in the occupied territories and other countries around the world. Why? Because they contribute to social services such as schools, and help to the destitute. Why can't the US do things like that in the Middle East? Instead of invading countries, why not help build schools, help the poor, anything to give positive reinforcement to the belief that America is a good country. It IS a good and generous country. It's just that sometimes our leadership isn't the best. We're going to need a good leader in the future to steer the right course in our relationship with the Middle East. Its our security and peace that is at stake.	2003-07-22
US	47412112	R3HJC11G62COG2	0142002399	261421472	The Shape of Water	Books	3	37	42	N	N	RELAX, DONT DO IT, IF YOU WANT TO SHOOT IT	In the American detective novel such as the Maltese Falcon oftentimes the hero is just as bad as the thugs he fights against and resorts to what we would call evil to achieve his ends. In The Shape of Water by Andrea Camilleri we have an altogether different animal. While retaining some of the facets of the hardboiled crime novel, it also lightens the atmosphere and incredibly features an honest and moral man as its protaganist. <br />Salvo Montalbano, the police inspector for the small Sicilian town of Vigata, is deeply respected by his community for his honesty and fairness. That is doubly important since there is corruption in all levels of the Italian government. He is very likable. He doesn't cheat on his girlfriend, he does good deeds, and he's also pretty intelligent, sometimes even discussing literature with other officers in the know. Not exactly the cold-blooded killer we see in America. What a breath of freshness this is! <br />Hold on, dont think that this is some nice cub scout book to be read to children. As the novel opens, two garbagemen find the body of Silvio Lupanello, chief political figure in Vigata. They find him dead in a car in the Pasture, a local name for an area known for its drug and prostitution activity. One of them finds a valuable necklace on the ground and conceals it from the police. <br />Salvo is called in to investigate the scene. I hesitate to say crime scene because it is not known whether any crime has been comitted. The rumors begin to spread that it was foul play. The problem for the inspector is that he wants to know the truth, wherever it leads him. Even it ends up sullying the plans of the political elite. <br />This was a good book. It was so refreshing to get a new perspective on a detective novel. I'm not alone because this series is a best-seller in many countries. It was originally published in Italy almost 10 years ago and has just now made it to English. I liked the fact that we had a traditional hero in the novel.I mean, American writers really blur the lines between good and evil most of the time. That's not to say there are no twists and turns in this novel. Camilleri seems to be in complete control of writing a novel that can be tough and yet gentle at the same time. The characters were great. The setting really invoked the country. The only thing that I can complain about was that maybe the novel moved too fast. You never have time to slow down. It seems like more of a cinematic experience. Maybe that will be remedied in the second novel. If you like detective stories with a refreshing change, seek this book out.	2003-07-19
US	47412112	RW3C4XX3V81WN	074345684X	798474869	Snow: A Novel	Books	2	8	15	N	N	INTERNATIONAL SENSATION	Just because a book comes from another country and had glowing reviews on the back with titles like La Repubblica or Culturas (I guess those are literary reviews or magazines), it still doesn't mean it will succeed in America. This hastily constructed short ditty has pretensions of touching our inner heartstrings. It wants us to surrender to the love and the quirky characters (I am so tired of quirky characters like the tight rope walker in this novel who ties a rope between the two highest peaks in Japan. All these weird and strange characters in fiction these days makes me feel like I'm in a freak show.)<br />Ok, in this book, which begins in April 1884 in Japan, the seventeen year old Yuko Akita has two passions: writing haiku and snow. When forced to choose between being a priest or a soldier, he decides he wants to write haiku. On top of that, he wants to write haiku about snow. That's it. In a wrongheaded turn of the book, Yuko says that he likes white because it is pure and has no color. We know that all the colors are in white. The Emperor hears about his haiku and requests him at court but Yuko does not believe he is ready yet.He is sent to a master artist named Soseki to learn how to put color in his haiku. Along the way he will fall in love with unattainable beauty and learn how tight rope walking fits into life.<br />I felt like I was supposed to be \\"charmed\\" by this book. Like I was supposed to get some profound truth out of it. I didn't get that. I felt like this book was tripe. It started off well, and felt like the rhythm of haiku but then about half way through I just wasn't accepting the world portrayed in the book anymore. It was cliched. Especially the whole tight-rope walking as a metaphor for living life deal. The book was OK. It does bother me that there are good books being written and are in search of a publisher even as you read this review, but this book was published instead. Originally in France. For a charming piece of French art, watchthe movie Amelie. Now THAT is a great work of charm. Go bury this book under a glacier with a mastadon somewhere in Siberia. It did have sentences of beauty, here and there, but not enough. I think when plot came in, the book went out. It should have been written as simple poetic meditation.	2003-07-19
US	47412112	RZ8Y64NWPKUSA	0452284279	815056968	Breakdown: The Failure of American Intelligence to Defeat Global Terror	Books	2	7	19	N	N	WE SHOULD'VE SEEN IT COMING	That good old-fashioned saying \\"hindsight is 20-20\\" comes to mind after reading this book by Bill Gertz. We could have stopped the terrorists if.....If only......we could've....we should've..... I am still left asking the question what difference does it make now? We didn't. So all we can do is learn from our mistakes and make sure something like this doesn't happen again. Unfortunately, instead of spending his time centering on the question of 9/11, Gertz goes on a crusade about how Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter essentially caused it.<br />Without really explaining their functions, Gertz begins by running down all the shortcomings of the US intelligence community. He believes that our government relies too much on the latest technological gimmicks to get information instead of using old-fashioned spies. Terrorists and the like sometimes have just as much access to technology as the CIA and so can neutralize eavsdropping. Arguing against the difficulty that some officials say we have in infiltrating terrorist groups, Gertz asks how then could John Walked Lindh have had contact with figures such as Osama Bin Laden? <br />Gertz also believes that intel has also become an entrenched bureaucracy that is just as political as any other branch of government. Instead of thinking of the whole of US security, they are more interested in themselves and whether they look good or bad. Also, the different branches, such as the CIA and the FBI do not like to share their information with each other. <br />Most of the book, unfortunately, has to do with blaming the Clinton adminstration almost exclusively for the lead-up to 9/11. Blaming the supposed \\"liberal\\" slant of his presidency, the 1990's, according to Gertz, was a decade where government agencies were reined in and held back from infringing on civil liberties, to a fault. It was also a decade where lawyers increasingly had more say in the intel community and the CIA and others were afraid of taking actions that could bring them legal troubles. He also blames our lack of significant punishment of terrorist activities as a catalyst that emboldened Osama to attack us so blatantly. After moaning and complaining the whole book, Gertz does offer about a page and a half of reform ideas that will make the world a paradise. <br />This book was written in a very dull style. It was like reading a cereal box or a memo. There is not even the slightest attempts at making it engaging or of inspring the outrage that the emotional title of \\"breakdown\\" conveys. It does not seemed researched at all even though there's about 80-odd pages of internal government documents from the US and England which seem thrown in there for looks sake. None of the \\"quotes\\" in the book are cited, but seem more like overheard conversations or a \\"I heard it from a friend of a friend\\" type gossip-mongering. <br />Gertz never does really accept the fact that the supposed sapping of the will of the intelligence community by Congress and Democratic presidents directly stemmed from Vietnam and Watergate. It was because of these events that the American people stopped trusting our government. When you feel betrayed by your government and you don't believe it is looking out for your interests, you are going to try to limit it. To Gertz, it was as if the presidencies of Ford, Reagan, and both Bushes didn't even exist. They had no hand in neglecting our intelligence services, even though 9/11 happened on Bush Jr.'s watch. <br />Ironically, in the past week I have been reading this book, George W. Bush has been having to deal with another breakdown in intelligence. Not only did he rely on a forged document in his State of the Union address, it was a forged document from a foreign intelligence agency. Now, how on the earth has our intel community improved under George W when we can't even find our own justification for going to war. Even to this day, England has not revealed their \\"supposed\\" evidence. Not to mention, there have been allegations that the Bush adminstration, and especially Dick Cheney, push the intel community to back up their sometimes wrong conclusions about the state of the world. This is exactly the thing Gertz is complaining about. That intel should be about finding the truth, not currying political favor, and that our intel agencies don't have the energy or will to invigorate themselves to doing their job. The consequence could be another 9/11.	2003-07-15
US	47412112	R288PA2RYMDROX	1567920365	961319376	Eclipse Fever (Nonpareil Books, No 76)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	ALL ROADS LEAD TO MEXICO	When many events happen at the same time, it takes the human mind a while to sort out the meaning behind them. Such is life and it also goes for Eclipse Fever by Walter Abish. It has a big cast of characters whose lives all intersect at one moment or another. Sometimes I felt lost but the story just kept on dragging me along with it, even when I got confused. It reminded me of life. Chaotic, messy, and beautiful.<br />Most of the novel is set in 1990's Mexico among the disparate lives of the Mexican elite. We have Alejandro, a literary critic who just happens to be lined up to interview the famous American writer named Jurud, who just happens to be his wife's lover. To tell you how Alejandro gets along with his wife, the first chapter of the novel is called &quot;At One Glance We Can Determine the Years They Will Not Spend Together!&quot; His wife, Mercedes, has gone to America, supposedly to help translate  Jurud's newest novel into Spanish but Alejandro knows something more is going on. Jurud's daughter, Bonny, doesn't sit too well with the new living arrangement when Mercedes moves between her and her father. So she decides to run away to Mexico to see a solar eclipse. Preston, an American businessman is designing an elevator in one of the ancient Aztec pyramids as his wife, Rita becomes a nymphomaniac. All these soap opera characters become involved in illegal dealings in Native Indian art which will lead to murder. <br />The good thing about the book was its spot on characters. They were strongly written, even though Abish's style was not exactly reader friendly. You really got a sense of the Mexican people in the book. It didn't sound like an American writing about Mexico. It's hard to give a good plot summary of any book like this that is more about relationships between characters. This book has it all, love, supense, horror, crime, honor, strength, weakness. Almost anthropological in its richness.	2003-07-14
US	47412112	R3UTK3FQ27QDY2	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	5	5	15	N	N	WE GOT A BIG STICK	Unless you've been on Mars the past year or so, you must be aware that the United States and Europe are not on the best of terms these days. Growing up, I always believed we were on the same side, but now it looks like we're basically the number one antagonist of each other. It's nothing new. In this short but important book Robert Kagan explains that this division is nothing new and comes about because the US and Europe live in completely different worlds. One lives in a fantasy paradise and the other in a dangerous world where power rules. <br />Kagan doesn't pull any punches but he does infuse humor into his work. One of my favorite down to earth analogies was the stereotypical image of America by Europe (pretty much the world) as a sort of \\"cowboy\\". By this, they mean that we are out of control, take the law into our own hands, confrontational, unintelligent, and a host of other criticisms. Kagan turns this around. He does compare us to a cowboy, more specifically, a sheriff who imposes law on a lawless world. He compares Europe to a saloon keeper. A saloon keeper who gets financial benefits from the outlaws who come into town. I thought it was funny because it represents the whole situation to me. <br />One of the main problems Europe has with America is jealousy. They are always trying to tie down the US with international law or diplomacy or telling us to use economic pressure to solve problems. They do this, Kagan says, because that is the only way they can solve problems. Their military weakness has forced them to rely on these methods. They can't exert influence with power so they don't want anyone else to either. A weaker nation will always try to rely on such things. Sort of like in the US Senate, where all states, no matter how small, have an equal say, to guard against more powerful states running the show. At one time, when the US was weak militarily, it too used the methods of the weak state. Europe shouldn't resent us simply because we have the power to solve problems quickly and by ourselves. <br />The main dilemma presented in this book is that Europe has cocooned itself into a fantasy dreamworld. Ironically, it has been allowed to do this by the US military it so devoutly denounces. After World War II, the US took over most of the military duties of protecting Europe from the USSR. Europe willingly went along with it, and ever since have devoted themselves to becoming one nation with strong economic ties. Having no security worries, it allowed itself to turn inward and to solve its internal disputes by seduction and diplomacy. It no longer had any interest in military matters. It started to believe that the entire world could function like it did and we could all be one happy family. Unfortunately, somebody has to get bloody, and in this case it's the US. <br />I think this was a great and very important book for the 21st century. It really lays the real problem between us and Europe down for everyone to see, and does it with gravity and humour. It really made the situation clearer to me. For example, it is in our best interests to see Europe in this fantasyland because before that, they were always trying to tear each others throats out and we had Americans killed trying to stop them. It also made me think that the world complains too much about us. They should thank God every day that it is the US who is the only superpower. Just think if a dictator like Hitler or Stalin or Saddam was leading a nation like ours, with the strength of our armies. In the end, the US tries to do the right thing most of the time. Even when we go to war, its usually for an ideal, even if it's wrong. In the end, the US and Europe are working for the same thing, to make the world a better place. If only Europe could see its dependence on our might that allows them to live in peace.	2003-07-08
US	47412112	RN8VX1B248EYD	0375422331	168525794	Isaac Newton	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A GOOD BRIEF LIFE	Before coming to this book I had always been aware of the reputation of Isaac Newton and knew without having too much knowledge of his theories that he was one of the greatest scientific thinkers of his or any time. When I finished this book I felt I had gained a good survey of his thought.<br />Newton was what was known in the England of the time as a posthumous child, which meant that his father had died before his birth. He was born to a widowed mother at a time when widows did not have that many prospects except to remarry. With some land and money, his mother could afford to send Isaac to school, but he was called back to help farm the land which was his by right. He was a young man ill suited for such pursuits, sneaking off in the fields to read and think when he should have been watching sheep. Due to the intervention of his uncle, he goes to Trinity College and his fate begins. He would later become a professor at Cambridge and the president of the Royal Society and Warden of the English Mint. Not to mention some of the most original thinking of his time which would lead to the modern world. <br />I really liked this book. It was very brief and to the point and was friendly to the non mathematican or physicist reader. In fact, I would think a scholar in those fields would be bored reading this book. This is more a populist work meant to give the bare bones of Newton's achievements in order to intice the normal reader to seek out the more difficult works on his own to find out more. I am horrible at math and physics and I still got a lot out of the hard science of the book. Even if it did get a little complicated, I could still understand. <br />The only thing negative I could say was that there wasn't more book. It could have been a tad bit longer. The last 70 pages or so are taken up with Gleicks lost of the works he cited. I didn't really get the full impact of Newton's theories because there wasn't room for Gleick to talk about them a lot. I would have liked more information on Newton's life also. His friendships seemed very sketchy and could have been more interesting because he was always fighting others in the scientific community.  <br />Newton seemed to be one of those few people who don't need a lot of social interaction. In fact he comes off very awkward in his relationships. It is proposed that he was chaste his entire life and if so, because his entire life was devoted to something higher than mere reproduction. He wanted to be God's interpretor, and in some repects, he succeeded. If you have an interest in Newton I would recommend this book.	2003-07-07
US	47412112	R1BU52GM7RFHBA	0140255249	996403615	Shadow Dance	Books	2	3	9	N	N	HOUSTON, WE HAVE A PSYCHO	Soon after I started reading this novel and read the descriptions of the clothing being worn by the characters I started to wonder whether all of them were Liberace impersonators. I mean what with all the frilly shirts and outrageous jewelry, and then I had to remind myself that this was published in 1966, the prelude to the Summer of Love. It was Angela Carter's first novel, originally published with the title Honeybuzzard. She was only 26 years old at the time and that can explain many of the failings of the book.<br />As Shadow Dance opens, we are introduced to Morris, a part owner of a antique/junk store who spends most of his days looking through deserted houses. He encounters Ghislaine, a young and beautiful girl. Well, she's not beautiful anymore. She has a long scar on her face that looks like it has never healed where someone mutilated her with a knife. The official story was that a gang raped her and then marked her like that. In reality, the whole town believes that Morris' business partner and friend, who goes by the name of Honeybuzzard, actually did it and has gotten off scotfree because Ghilsaine still loves him.  Coencidentally, Honeybuzzard arrives back in town with a new girlfriend in tow. Morris will have to face up to what his friend has done (if he really is his friend), deal with his worn down marriage, and decide if he can be his own man in the process. <br />I liked Carter's style in the book. She is a master of description and metaphor and is very sensual. You can visualize her writing very easily. The problem in this novel comes down to characterization, namely, that of Honeybuzzard. All of her characters are strongly written except him. Honeybuzzard comes off at one point as slightly gayish man lacking all morality to a preening and giggly girl to a brutal psycho. We're never able to quite believe the over the top nature of the character. At times I expect him to do a fat Elvis routine. Carter made the character androgynous to a fault. Whether this was intentional or not, I don't know. I could go on and on about the failure of this very important character which renders the book silly, goofy, and self-destructive but I won't. Carter was just starting here and very few first novels hit on all cylinders. It's worth reading for a fan of her work but a general audience would probably be wasting their time.	2003-07-06
US	47412112	RKSRQX4B6CWE3	1400031834	848291415	The Buzzing	Books	1	2	12	N	N	LOOK OUT FOR THE TRAIN WRECK	I once wrote that a good book to read to learn how to write would be Breakfast at Tiffany's by Truman Capote. Now I come across a book to read where everything the writer attempts to do comes out wrong. I found that book to be The Buzzing by Jim Knipfel. Oh boy, what a wreck this novel is. <br />The Buzzing is about a reporter named Roscoe Baragan who works for a third string newspaper in New York City whose two rules of journalism are :<br />\\"1.There are some stories that, for whatever reason, simply cannot be told. <br />2.Everyone's a liar.\\"<br />Roscoe works the \\"kook beat\\", which means he follows up on all the stories that even the tabloids wouldn't touch. He has come to this beat because after 15 years in the same job, he has lost interest in the news he is assigned to cover. At one time, he was the most respected newsman in the city. Somewhere along the line he just got lazy. Living on his past glories has allowed him to cover the news in his own fantasy world. <br />His private life isn't so hot either. He basically just gets drunk everyday after work with his friend, Emily, who he has no romantic interest in (that would take too much effort). Then he goes home and watches old Japanese monster movies on video. You know, all the Godzilla movies where some guy stomps on Tokyo or fights against other monsters. <br />A problem arises when all the crazies and the conspiracies that they espouse begin to actually make sense to Roscoe. Earthquakes, dead corpses that are radioactive found in the city, calls from a guy kidnapped by the state of Alaska, all seem to take on a pattern and weave into a real threat to the very earth itself. Roscoe's greatest fear of covering the kook beat was that someday one of the crazy stories he covered would turn out to be true. <br />This book was very poorly done. It had a very interesting premise and could have perhaps been well done if Kurt Vonnegut was still a young man. It just lost steam halfway through when you realized that the payoff for the book wasn't going to amount to much in the end. The writer just didn't have enough imagination to take it where it needed to go. The inner life of all the characters was nil. They just get drunk most of the time. Even Roscoe, to me, was very shallowly portrayed. He is basically the equivalent of a stick figure to me. The references to Godzilla movies and of other Japanese cult films are thinly disguised interests of the author himself that has no appeal beyond his own taste. This was a long inverted dialogue with a writer that belongs to a future of obscurity, not \\"a distinctive new voice in American fiction\\" that the blurb on the back of the book announces. Avoid this book.	2003-07-03
US	47412112	R18ZQ8MKHC282Q	067973385X	227363368	Exile and the Kingdom	Books	2	11	32	N	N	LET ME OUT OF HERE	Well, here I am again with Albert Camus. This is the third review of one of his works that I've written. I thought The Stranger was a great work and so I went on to The Fall and found it lacking. I've found that Camus is at his best when he concentrates on a story instead of preaching to his audience. Yeah, you can put philosophical ideas in fiction but you have to clothe it deeply enough in story. In Exile and the Kingdom (1958), a book of 6 short stories comes closer to the storytelling brillance of The Stranger but doesn't quite pull it off. <br />Most of the stories in the book are about people that are being repressed by society in one form or another. They have gotten sick of their lives and are on the cusp of breaking down or screaming out or surrendering to their fate. Some of them escape and some of the characters don't. <br />The first story, &quot;The Adulterous Woman&quot; is about a woman who has been married too long and while visiting an Arab town begins to awaken her physical being to the sights and sounds of the desert and of other men. <br />&quot;The Renegade&quot; shows what happens when a missionary priest is captured by a tribe of savages and is forced to worship a pagan idol. This is one of the more effective stories and reminds me of the first person style of The Fall. <br />&quot;The Silent Men&quot; concerns us with one of the favorite pasttimes of Europeans, namely the labor dispute. It is about the relations between some barrelmakers and their boss. Not exactly high drama.<br />In &quot;The Guest&quot;, a schoolteacher on a remote mountain, isolated from civilization, is given the responsibility of escorting a murderer to the civil authorities.<br />&quot;The Artist at Work&quot; is the greatest story in the book. It is about the continual conflict between an artist's desire to be a part of society and the need he has for solitude. The painter in this story gets married, has kids, tries to be a celebrity, and almost destroys his very reason for being. Almost everyone, even his disciples, are unknowingly killing him because they never allow him time to work. <br />The last story in the book, &quot;The Growing Stone&quot; was almost completely a waste of time. I know it was about a French engineer going to a rainforest village to construct a flood prevention system but beyond that it got shaky. I know he went to one of their celebrations and saw something like a voodoo ceremony but beyond that I didn't have a clue as to what was going on. I'm sure it was one of those Heart of Darkness things where civilized European confronts dark forces of the jungle and loses.<br />This book as a whole was OK. Nothing bad. Just Ok. The artist story was quite good even though it was a bit melodramatic and romantic. &quot;The Renegade&quot; I'll have to read again but I believe it to be quite masterful too. As for the other stories, I don't see that you would miss anything if you didn't read them. There just doesn't seem to be a lot going on in them. The characters aren't given enough to make us interested in them. In fact, I don't think any of these stories are essential to Camus' work or French literature. They were just average to me. Read The Stranger instead.	2003-06-30
US	47412112	R2XNX942P3A73Q	0847694291	927836702	A Concise History of the Crusades (Critical Issues History)	Books	4	37	61	N	N	CHRISTIANS ON JIHAD	It seems all we hear about these days is fundamentalist Arabs blowing themselves up in the name of God or killing innocents or trying to eradicate the Jewish state. There was a time when Christians were just as crackpot. For example, look at the Inquisition, or the Salem witch trials, or even the whole David Koresh thing in recent times. Fortunately for the United States, secular powers have been in the forefront ever since our founding. The world wasn't always like this though. In medieval times, the most important thing in your life to fight for would be your faith. <br />This history begins with a short history of Islam that sets the stage for the first Crusade. Around 1071, a group known as the Seljuk Turks was threatening Byzantium, the capital of the Eastern Roman Empire. The emperor called on the Western European nations to come to his aid. After years of constant fighting with the Turks on their own, in 1096, the First Crusade left Europe which not only took the pressure off the Byzantines, but by luck and fighting captured most of the Holy Land from the Muslims. As any military man or woman knows, capturing territory is not always the hardest part. It's the holding of it that is difficult. The rest of the book chronicles the 500 year history of the Christian failures and successes of getting and then losing modern day Israel.<br />This is a good general history of the Crusades which is exactly what it says on the cover. \\"Concise\\". It doesn't dwell on the minutiae of each and every emperor or king of the week. Instead it touches broadly on all aspects of the Crusades. I was almost completely ignorant on the subject and now I believe I could have an intelligent conversation about it. I found it informing that the original intent behind the Crusades was not one of pillaging. It stemmed from a sincere desire to fight in the name of Christ and to free his homeland. It was also about making a pilgrimage. To these knights, it was the highest honor to go on one ofthese Crusades. Many of the noblemen gave up their lands to raise money for the long trip. I was surprised that there was very little state support. Back in that time, the idea of a nation state was really an empty notion. I thought the book was almost perfect. It didn't linger on anything too long and never got boring. I would recommend it to any general reader as a good intro to the subject.	2003-06-28
US	47412112	R1TCKSBQRQQLR6	0865381062	145562450	A Garden of Demons: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	IDEALISM CAN GET YOU INTO TROUBLE	I had never heard of Edward Hower before I picked up this book in the libarary. I have to admit my interest was sparked by the writers who rave about him on the dustjacket. I figure that when writers like Robert Stone, Diane Johnson, Paul West, and William Kennedy say good things about Hower, he was worth reading. I wasn't disappointed. <br />Set in Sri Lanka in 1998, A Garden of Demons is a coming of age story of an 11 year old girl named Lila Gunasekera, born to a Sri Lankan father and an American mother. Her Uncle Richard has just arrived from the U.S., frustrated in his effort to find a job there. He arrives to find Lila's family trying to find support from the Sri Lankan government to turn their vast plantation into a nature preserve. Never mind that a civil war is being fought betweenn the government and the vicious terrorist forces of the Tamil Tigers less than a hundred miles away. As the war inches closer, the Gunasekeras will have to decide whether their ideals are worth dying for and Lila will have to leave her childhood behind. <br />This was a great book. You would think with the age of the main character that this novel would classify as young adult literature. It doesn't. Instead, the fact that it comes from Lila's perspective just adds to the dreamlike fantasy that the family seems to inhabit. Sri Lanka is a land of spirits, good and evil, that move across the land, influencing the lives of humans, much as the Greek gods do in the works of Homer. It doesn't quite reach that state of \\"magical realism\\" but seems to be just \\"realism\\". Lila is a great character that really grows on you. There is no hint of the cutesy froo froo that could inherently damage such a young character. This was a great novel. I already said that. I am really glad I picked it up. Unfortunately, from the lack of any reviews of this work, not many people seem to be aware of it on this site. Hunt it down.	2003-06-28
US	47412112	R1B1F8L6J98JVD	0553572393	710568866	Green Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	SOMETIMES REVOLUTIONS DO COME TRUE	The first book of Kim Stanley Robinson's epic trilogy, RED MARS, wone the 1993 Nebula Award for Best Novel. This sequel, GREEN MARS, won the 1994 Hugo Award. Except for the last Hugo, which went to a Harry Potter novel (something which will taint the award forever), this award is not given lightly. Green Mars deserved all the honors that could be heaped upon it. In some ways it reminds me of Peter Jackson's Two Towers film, in that it is a middle chapter in a much greater landmark saga.  <br />Green Mars starts out about 40 years after the failed revolution by elements of the original settlers to free itself of the rule of Earth. That revolution caused much destruction and thousands of deaths but in the end it failed. It failed because there was no coordination among the disparate groups. Some were fighting to keep Mars as it was, some to change it, some were out merely to seize power for themselves. Now the legendary First Hundred settlers have been hunted down and reduced to just 39. Those that are alive must live in secret sanctuaries hidden throughout the landscape or take on fake identities. And all the while, Mars is beginning to show life on its surface. <br />Hope springs eternal, for the metanational corporations, the real force that controls Mars, from Earth, are about to embark on a civil war amongst themselves. Also, a new generation of Martians are coming of age and doing something their predecessors didn't. Organizing themselves into a united and coordinated front. Establishing goals and having patience for the right moment to strike. Kinda like a twelve step program for revolution.<br />In Green Mars, different parts of the book are divided into the perspective of the various characters. Nirgal, the first to be introduced, is a young ectogene, a cellular descendent of the First Hundred, who is taught by Hiroko, the weird and reclusive religious cult figure from the first book. He will try to be the bridge between the old and the new Mars, gathering support from the young generation who see themselves as Martians, not settlers. Art Randolph is from Earth, sent by the CEO of Praxis, a leading metanational company, to infiltrate the underground movement of Mars. His mission is not to harm it, but to help it. Sax Russell's identity is changed by plastic surgery so he can spy on the metanationals. Ann Clayborne, the eco-terrorist from the first book must find her will to fight again. Maya Toitovna must come to terms with her past and find the ground to stand on to become a leader for the new generation as well. Only together will all these elements, will all these different camps be able to defeat the powers of Earth.<br />This book was great. Robinson's science fiction is not that of Star Wars. His vision of Mars is something to me that could truly happen. In fact, these books have read like future history, if there is such a thing. The settlers didn't land on Mars to fight aliens. They had to fight about what they wanted their world to be like in terms of politics, environment, and society, freedom. This book is a good treatise on what it takes to make a revolution. I mean, to make a good one. The book is really about finding commonality and being able to act as one. Kim is a masterful studier of character. There is no cuteness as in immature sf writers who know nothing of relationships except what they see in movies. This book is strong. It cannot be read alone though, meaning Red Mars must be read first. In some ways, reading this book is like looking at the problems faced by our founding fathers 200 years ago. The formation of a nation. Seek this book out.	2003-06-16
US	47412112	R1UKUPY7SJK8Q6	0374102112	904508107	Death as a Way of Life: Israel Ten Years After Oslo	Books	5	8	26	N	N	THE NEVERENDING STORY	In an April 1995 essay entitled \\"Yes, Prime Minister\\", included in this collection David Grossman wrote that the peace process between the Israelis and the Palestinians was \\"reversible\\", meaning it could be destroyed. He then went on to lay out the 3 the things that could destroy it:<br />1.Arafat becomes inactive or irrelevant.<BR>2.The Likud party comes to power.<BR>3.The peace process is constantly interrupted by violence.<br />As we know now, all these things have come to pass. How prophetic this collection of essays becomes. They have been collected from publications all over the world dating from the September 1993 hopes of the Oslo Summit to the most recent, an article from September 2002 and the almost hopelessness of the 10 year old Intifada. <br />Grossman's essays cover different topics but they all come down to the ongoing conflict in Israel between the paranoid Israelis and the downtrodden and vengeful Palestinians. Well, he doesn't exactly stereotype them this way but he comes close. He paints Israel as a country of Jews that has suffered hostility and persecution over so many centuries that has bred in them a fear of being exterminated or of being caught up in a new diaspora where they are cast off their land. So any time they feel threatened they respond with overwhelming brutality. A sort of post-trauma of a whole nation. Ironically, the Palestinians find themselves in the same situation as the Jews once did. They are persecuted for their race, for their beliefs, for their wanting of a homeland. <br />One of the big points in the book that I wondered about also was that where are the MODERATE representatives of both sides? Why do we always see these gun toting [people] and fat cat politicians raving up violence and venegence? Are the sane people in this conflict simply cowards? I know they exist! Where is a great leader on either side who could step up and unite their people???  It's like Hitler vs. Stalin all over again. Why doesn't the Likud and Hamas just join forces and declare war against the rest of the Jews and Palestinians?It just seems the people in power are simply there to draw more blood. <br />Another point that Grossman makes in his essays is that both peoples need to realize that their survival depends on the peace they make between each other. Decades more war will only lead to their children becoming bloodthirsty savages who know how to make war and kill but know nothing of living together...<br />I think everyone should read this book because even though it is written by an Israeli it tries to keep a balance and look at both sides of the conflict. He understands that there can be no peace without the absence of oppression. Grossman shows his fear of a future of war but never loses sight of a possible peace. <br />The only negative aspect of his culture that he shows is in an essay called \\"Point of No Return\\" in which he argues against the right of return of the Palestians who were thrown off their land when Israel was first constituted back in the 40s. He beleives that there cannot be a single state for both peoples. He believes that they can only be proper states if they are culturally pure. Meaning only Jews can rule Jews and Palestinians can rule Palestinians. We must not pollute the fatherland with the impure. There are certain racists who would agree with him who think that way. In the end, Grossman's enlightened viewpoint can only go so far. We are all a prisoner in the end to our culture. <br />After reading this book, and hearing about the continued idiocy of the conflict on the news every single day, I wish the state of Israel had never been formed, I mean at least after World War II. They never fought for their independence. It was given to them by the United States in what would seem to be the Last Crusade. Freeing the holy land and all that. It was formed in an act of pity and we have been paying for it as Americans ever since by acts of terrorism and ill will from Arab countriesand will continue to suffer for our wrongheaded alliance with them. I really don't think we would have a terrorism problem or be hated with such vehemence if Israel didn't exist. If you look back over time, most muslim rulers were very tolerant of the Jews and Christians who came to the holy land. Because really, in the end we worship the same God. It's only the details we kill each other for. Perhaps, that is the saddest thing about the whole deal. That they all kill each other in the name of the same God.	2003-06-15
US	47412112	R3CZLPKKYKSLJQ	0532954173	332164860	Masters of Time	Books	2	4	5	N	N	SEXIST WAR OF THE FUTURE!	Just as the first artwork by mankind were primitive paintings and stick figures on the walls of caves, Masters of Time is an example of the first primitive attempts at writing modern science fiction. This novel from the early 1940s was first published in the pulp magazine Astounding Science Fiction, and boy, can you tell. <br />The book starts off promising enough in the aftermath of a suicide attempt by Norma Matheson. She was trying to kill herself out of regret for rejecting the marriage proposal of man named Jack Garson. The same Professor Jack Garson who, ten years later,  is in town to deliver a series of lectures. As she struggles back onto shore from the river where she tried to drown herself, a mysterious man named Dr. Lell approaches her and offers her a job in a recruiting station for a war in Calonia (a war which is never explained). She accepts.<br />Later on, she finds out the the recruiting is actually for a war in the far future of Earth and that her role is to dupe volunteers who come in. When she tries to escape from the situation, she finds that a machine used by Dr. Lell can control her mind, and even more, can control her age. He is a so-called \\"Master of Time\\". He offers her a deal. In return for her cooperation, he will make her young again. With no options, she writes a desperate letter to her ex-lover, Jack Garson, who shows up and is sent into the future to fight a war he does not even understand. How will the two survive the future? Norma will have to unlock the power of the universe within herself. <br />I guess the plot is sorta interesting. The drag of the 1940s is all over this book though. For example, Dr. Kell does not accept women in his future war because they are not mentally suited. Yeah, right. Tell that to our own 21st century women military personnel. The whole thing that the Norma, a woman, has to lead these men into Dr. Kell's trap goes with the whole femme fatale crime noir of the 30s and 40s. <br />Another negative of thebook is the downright goofy jargon of the text. You hear things like \\"super duper ray guns\\", \\"the Glorious depersonalizing machine\\", and \\"three handsome Ganellians\\" etc. This book comes from an age when your science fiction didn't have to explain its science and so they just winged it all, more like fantasy really. <br />It did have some good moments when it didn't rely on too much science. I was glad that Norma actually becomes the heroine in the end. The fact that in the future man's actions were partially controlled by superhuman machines called Observors and that some of these machines were called Tentacles, who are described much as the Sentinels in the latest Keanu Reeves actionfest, reminds one of the world of the Matrix. I was disappointed reading this after knowing the reputation of AE van Vogt. Perhaps he wrote better and worse novels than this one.	2003-06-14
US	47412112	R1FMYWS0N8Z2ZI	037575895X	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	3	5	11	N	N	BACK IN MY DAY!	Just like the human body begins to decay beyond the point of repair once we reach a certain age , so it is also with empires. With empires there are some who fight to revolutionize the system and transform it into something more vital. On the other hand, there are some who cling to the old ways like rats on a sinking ship who fail to adapt. The laws of nature have shown us that those who fail to adapt become extinct. Cicero was such a man who was too caught up in the myth of tradition and blind faith in the corrupt Republic of Rome to ever do anything to address its death.<br />This biography by Anthony Everitt starts out with a bang, or should I say a stab, or actually multiple stabs, by opening with a vivid description of Julius Caesar's assasination. It then gives a little background on the Roman Empire in order to show us how it was run and who exactly had authority in it. From the get go we can see two blaring weaknesses that would lead to the crises of Cicero's lifetime. <br />One problem was that were too many people with equal powers. Everitt states that the only real function of the Roman Senate members was to make sure that no one individual gained too much power. In other words, to keep everyone equal and to maintain a status quo. The problem with this was that when reforms needed to be passed, no one could get them through. The Senate was in perpetual stalemate.<br />Another problem related to this was the split between the conservative Senate which pretty much represented the aristocracy and the representatives of the people embodied in the form of the Tribunes. Neither was really interested in the other and so there was no compromise so nothing was usually accomplished. <br />Only after this background do we start the story of Rome's \\"greatest politician\\". Cicero was born into a fairly well-to-do family and eventually became a practicing lawyer. Unlike in present times, court was held in the open air and anyone was able to attend. Cicero concentrated alot on his delivery and became one of the most well-known speakers of his time. He tried to keep a straight and narrow line to his virtue as he watched others around him succumb to bribes and kickbacks. Yes, if you can believe it, Rome was corrupt. You had all this money pouring in from conquered peoples and practically none of it was going to the common Roman citizen. Money existed to buy people with. <br />Cicero eventually works himself up into some of the high offices of the Republic but I didn't really notice anything that would distinguish him as the \\"greatest politician\\" of Rome. Cicero to me is full of himself. He never ceases to toot his own horn in front of his friends and enemies. Everitt makes some aplogy for him by saying that if Cicero hadn't done it himself, nobody would have praised his accomplishments. He did put down an attempted coup by a conspirator named Cataline but this was pretty much the high point of his career. <br />Cicero spent his whole life trying to curry favor with those he thought had power and then insulting them behind their back. To me Everitt didn't really show me any greatness in Cicero. In this book he showed me a cowardly, spineless man who was on the whole afraid to stand up on his own two feet. For example, Cicero said that he wanted to be the mediator between the aristocracy and the common people but when push came to shove he sided with the rich. He said he wanted to reform Rome but when put to the test he sided with the conservative business as usual side of the Senate. Cicero merely paid lip service to his causes. Even though he stood against Caesar in private, he had moments of support for him in public. <br />This book was good but it didn't accomplish its mission. That is, it didnt convince me that Cicero was the greatest politician of Rome. To me, he appeared as the average ineffectual Senator in action, and above average only in writing and orating. Even his murder at the end of his life was due to his lack of accepting how bad off the Republic really was and also a payback for insults he had flung at people his whole life. He was a man who had influence in Rome but had no power to steer it anywhere. A weakness of the book is that it barely mentions Cicero's literary accomplishments, something more worthy of attention than his biography. His life will be forgotten, his works will live on, even though noone but Latin scholars probably read even them.	2003-06-07
US	47412112	R2SCR9VHQBQIZF	0375409009	105731385	Masters of Death: The SS-Einsatzgruppen and the Invention of the Holocaust	Books	4	5	10	N	N	EVERYTHING WAS PLANNED	It's amazing to think that in a brief space of years the world would see three countries rise up and try to conquer their neighbors in the name of three insane doctrines. In Japan, we had the suicidal tendencies of the emperor as god fanatacism. In Russia, we had the mass murderer elevated to state leader in the form of Stalin. Of course, in Germany we had the brainwashing of a majority of its people by a crackpot bigot who belonged in an insane asylum. I believe that the common people of these countries were just as responsible for the atrocities committed by their states as their leaders. Masters of Death is about one such long term atrocity committed by Hitler and his political allies. Namely, that of the genocide of the Jewish race.<br />This book basically chronicles the SS death squads assigned to kill Jews from the invasion of Poland up until Russia begins to turn the tide of the war and kicks the Germans back to their borders. Hitler was not killing Jews indiscriminately. It was all part of his gloriously foolish plan to make room for German colonists in Eastern Europe. Actually, maybe he was just killing them to suit his racist views. But this was the veil he moved under. <br />The book is propelled a lot by eyewitness views of the massacres perpetrated by the Germans. Rhodes does a good job of showing the viewpoints not just of the Jews, but also Germans as they face abominable killings. Basically, the German army would roll into a town, kill all the most visible opponents of their rule, and then the SS would come in after and mop up, try to win the hearts of minds of the people, and then start to kill those left by the army and the Jewish population.<br />Time and again we are treated to the same horrible situation in the book. The Jewish populations were at first rounded up and told they were being relocated and asked to take 3 days worth of clothes with them. They were then marched to a pit, ordered to strip sometimes and then shot, men, women, and children. Sometimes women were killed with their children in their arms. Sometimes the Jews were told to lay face down and a German came and shot them dead. Then the second group of Jews had to lay down on top of the freshly dead corpses as they were shot and son on. It's truly horrible.<br /> I got upset just looking at the scant pictures of these atrocities availible in the book. When you see these people in the pictures, you know they were about to die and they knew it too. In one picture, there is a group of Jewish women in their underwear and there is a kid, looks about 11 or 12 hiding behind her mothers arm. I cannot even imagine what it was like to have been there.  It makes you very sad and also very angry at the German people of that time. <br />This was a great book that needs to be read by everyone on the planet. We need to know just how barbaric the human race can get because I think we are complacent now and can no longer realize what evil is. I dont think we are capable of outrage anymore since we have been so sensitized to killing and murder thanks to television and movies. I truly believe that 9/11 and the recent Iraq war were simply rating events for the tv networks and that most people can't realize the horror of being there. This book does take you to that horror. The only thing I didn't agree with was Rhodes' attempts to explain why the Holocaust happened. He believes that most of the perpetrators had some childhood abuse or some event in their lives that legitimized violence as a means to an end. Any rational explanation of the Nazi's behavior to me is useless. To me, you had a leader in the form of Hitler who turned his whole country into an asylum. The mad leading the mad. We need to read this book to remember. We cannot forget that even the most civilized among us can revert to an animal.	2003-05-21
US	47412112	RQ14ZXGRO69IK	0140441263	724659457	Zadig and L'Ingnu (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	11	25	N	N	A LITTLE BELOW PAR	One of the current fads in fiction is to take a painting by some Dutch master of some nameless woman and write a book about that woman's relationship with the artist. For example, The Girl with the Pearl Earring. That was successful, so then you see dozens of the same ilk. In the late 18th century and early 19th centuries, with the publication of the Arabian Nights in translation, writers became involved in the new fad of setting their tales in the Arab world. Voltaire was not immune to it, as is evidenced with Zadig.<br />Much as science fiction writers sometimes mask the satire of our world in technological allegory, so Voltaire uses the setting of ancient Babylon to critique French society and beyond that, the customs of all of Europe. Zadig is young nobleman  who falls into all kinds of troubles as he tries to make his way through life. He's a nice guy that doesn't deserve such troubles. For example, when his fiance is being kidnapped, he is struck by an arrow and the doctor says he won't live. When Zadig does survive, the doctor is angry at him because he survived! Then his fiance dumps him. Zadig will have to fight against treacherous kings, mages, women, thieves, actually just about everyone in the world turns against him. <br />The second work contained in this volume is L'Ingenu (The Child of Nature). In Volataire's time, and even in our time, Native Americans are romanticized as being closer to Nature. They didn't litter, they didnt destroy environments, etc. They were at one with the land. A lot of that is hokey. But in L'Ingenu we encounter this stereotype in the form of The Child of Nature, supposedly an Huron Indian visiting the high society of France. He ends up being the long lost nephew of the very French Abbe he is visiting. Of course, as soon as the Abbe learns this he tries to convert him to Christianity. What ensues is similar to Zadig. The Child of Nature most overcome all the lies and deceptions of the modern world in order to find his happiness. <br />I have to say that after reading 3 works by Voltaire, I'm not that impressed. To me, Candide was no big whoop. These two works bookend that famous work and inform it to some extent. Zadig seems to have been a warmup pitch for Candide and is equal in art to that work. In fact I would say they were interchangeable. If you've read one, you don't have to read the other. L'Ingenu on the other hand seems to go a little deeper. It criticizes the Church quite violently and actually dispenses with the comedy by its end. I've read many comedies funnier than this and tragedies more poignant. Don't come to this book expecting greatness.	2003-05-18
US	47412112	R1PLSS3HRUSBC0	0156627809	874323110	Mr. Palomar	Books	1	13	32	N	N	GET OUT OF THE HOUSE!	Published in 1983, this is unfortunately one of the last works by Calvino to appear in his lifetime (He died in 1985). It is apparent that his inspiration had left him and instead of creating great novels, he started dabbling in pseudo-philosophical meanderings. Well, I guess all writers lose their power at some point. <br />Mr. Palomar is about a man who is so afraid of living in the harsh world of change and interaction that he develops a system of order and analyzation that will explain the reason for everything. For example, at the beginning of the novel he is watching waves crash on the beach. The watching makes him uncomfortable until he puts a logical system in place that will allow him to predict how each wave will rise and fall.<br />Palomar tries to get at the underlying first cause and reason of everything he encounters. For example, he tries to figure out the language of birds, or the thought processes of an albino gorilla. The problem is that there is always something around which messes up his perfect system and sends him back to the drawing board. There is no plot in this book so no summary will explain what goes on in the book. It is merely one character's ramblings about the world and himself.<br />Frankly, I thought this book was drop dead boring. I'm all for intellectual head scratching but this book just wouldn't shut up. There is no motion in the novel. It just sits there and expects you to say &quot;great book&quot;. Well, that wouldn't be a true statement. There isn't even a shadow of a plot and the whole thing just seems lifeless. I would recommend The Baron in the Trees or Marcovaldo, also by Calvino instead of getting this book.	2003-05-17
US	47412112	R9OW8YC3P6PYJ	0679730230	121348632	The Key	Books	5	6	6	N	N	HE SAID SHE SAID	I could launch into a whole spiel about the nature of truth and all that junk philosophers have been making a living from for a millenium and then some, but I won't. The Key is a work that will leave you wondering what exactly truth \\"is\\" in the Clinton way of speaking. <br />After more than 20 years of marriage, a husband and wife are finally becoming sick of each other. The husband sees his wife as sexually repressed and feels that he has to write his frustrations and fantasies in his diary. He's kinda torn over whether he wants her to read it or not. <br />The wife on the other hand sees her decade older husband as disgusting and demanding. She doesn't desire him physically as such. She just uses him for the act of sex and even that leaves much to be desired. <br />Enter a friend of their daughter named Kimura and things start to come to a head when he just happens to resemble the wive's favorite movie star. She uses her desire for him and her husband's jealousy to try to enliven their marriage. The problem is, like drugs and capitalism, you become acclimated to a certain dosage and then you have to escalate more and more. Then things become outlandish chaos.<br />This book is another masterpiece by Tanazaki which is crammed into a little close to 200 pages. I'm in awe of the dude. He takes these situations that seem so cliched and makes them into something great. He is a true master. Here we have a meditation on marriage and sex. How do two people who find out they married someone incompatible with themselves and yet continue to exist in the falseness of it? Many couples find themselves in the same situation. Lots of times they end up destroying each other. If only these characters could be honest with each other and speak their minds. Even the fact that they could really only communicate their deepest thoughts through diaries shows their weakness. I recommend this book highly. If you like it, check out another of his novels entitled Quicksand.	2003-05-05
US	47412112	R3J77QXLFDRNC8	0156012197	781565906	The Little Prince	Books	5	3	7	N	N	CLASSIC!	Reading level is ages 9-12? I don't think so! I think a senile person on the border of death would get something out of this book! Like Alice in Wonderland, this \\"kid\\" classic has more moving beneath its surface than many \\"adult\\" novels that I've read. It would disintegrate John Grisham's entire corpus just in the space of one page! <br />Antoine de Saint-Euxpery first published this book in 1943 and since then it has been translated into a zillion languages, because like music, the language of Prince is universal. The plot is pretty straightforward. The author, a famous aviator, has mechanical trouble with his plane and is forced to land in the Sahara Desert a thousand miles from civilization. That is until a young boy approaches him out of the blue and asks him to draw a sheep for him. Sound surreal? Childhood IS surreal! Page by page, the pilot learns of the past of The Little Prince. <br />Don't expect reality here. The Little Prince lived on a small asteroid named B-612. So small, in fact that he could see 44 sunsets simply by moving a few steps every couple of minutes. He longed to explore and so was carried by a flock of birds to Earth. <br />The Little Prince has all the form of a parable or a fable, a tale that is meant to convey deeper thoughts than its superficial attributes. There are thoughts in this book on love, relationships, the emptiness of a life without either, death, spirituality, capitalism, in general, the souless existence of the adult world. I'm sure this book could be a doctoral thesis for a future professor somewhere. I will come back to this book to explore some mysteries many more times in my life, I think. Seek it out. Richard Howard is one of the greatest translators of our time. He only improves the English version of this great book.	2003-05-04
US	47412112	R2N78EBYDH9X2F	0425158640	575127070	Idoru	Books	2	3	19	N	N	THEATER OF THE VIRTUAL ABSURD	Imagine a world in which virtual communities flourish on a system called &quot;the world wide web&quot;. Imagine graphic representations of people intearacting with each other in that world. Imagine a future in which celebrities remain young forever through the media, able to touch up their photos. Imagine a world in which everyone seems a cyberpunk. Only a writer like William Gibson could dare to construct such an incredible vision of......<br />HEY, HOLD ON A SECOND!  All he's writing about is the world we already live in!  What's so exciting and refreshing about that? I came here looking for some science fiction, some cutting edge work, and here is this practically goofy novel looking me in the eye. I guess Gibson was cutting edge in 1984 but unfortunately the world has caught up to his subject and moreover, passed it by. This book is a dinosaur.<br />First of all, let's look at the dumbo plot. A Japanese rockstar named Rez has decided to get married an Idoru, a virtual reality star created much like the American Idol winners, except that she does not have corporeal form. She only exists as a hologram in our world. Various elements in Rez's orgainization want to find out who has put him up to this. They call in Colin Laney, a man with a talent for tracking down information in webspace. Doesn't it sound great? It gets better!<br />Colin's story alternates with another character named Chia McKenzie, a fourteen year old member of Rez's fanclub who tells her mom she's staying with a friend as she sneaks off to Japan to scout out the truth of Rez's forthcoming marriage. Somehow she gets involved with outlaw hackers, the Russian Mafia in Japan, and some low-life smugglers along the way.<br />I guess there were some good things about this book. It didn't take much effort to read? It had some interesting paragraphs? Raised some interesting questions that were never looked at closely enough like the nature of love between a human and a media construct. But a Heckle and Jeckle book like this wouldn't look into a dark soul thing like that.<br />The plot of this book is so ludicrous that it would make a good comedy or satire if Gibson didn't seem to write so seriously. Also good for a laugh is the dustjacket that states that he envisioned the internet and virtual reality before it existed. Please! That's almost as ludicrous as Albert Gore taking credit for it. I don't know why I finished reading this book. I guess because it wasn't awful, just dumb. I was disappointed because I had always heard such good things about the author. Maybe so many people read him simply because its the &quot;cool&quot; thing to do. It just seems so dated, the subject matter. I believe there are many realities about &quot;cyberspace&quot; (he invented that too) that are more fascinating than the &quot;supposed&quot; earthshattering visionary outlook of the futures of William Gibson. This pedestrian book would make good bedtime reading for young cats. And I really mean cats, not the slang. Or other small animals.	2003-05-03
US	47412112	R379TRG6N2M9LO	0609607383	792302611	Hobo: A Young Man's Thoughts on Trains and Tramping in America	Books	3	9	9	N	N	I AM NOT AN ANIMAL, I AM A HOBO!	So what do you if you're nineteen, working with your father as a brickmason, and he fires you for sleeping on the job? Well, if you're Eddy Joe Cotton, you find the nearest truckstop, meet up with an old hand named Alabama, and jump a train. This memoir covers Cotton's first month on the tracks from Denver to Las Vegas as he meets up with old and young tramps, starlets, and murderers.<br />Eddy Joe Cotton is a name made up by the author to be his \\"tramp\\" name. Hoboes don't look back at their past a lot and it's almost a ceremonial thing to leave your old name behind if you're a real traveller. <br />There is a constant conflict inside Eddy. The conflict is between living the perilous, well, let's say precarious life of the hobo, and the American Dream. By American Dream I mean that slough of a nice house, car, wife, whatever. The life of freedom is one of loneliness and an avoidance of responsibility according to Cotton. Some would see this as a rejection of adulthood in a way. In some ways I agree. What's going to happen to Eddy when he gets old and he can't jump on a train? Who's gonna take care of him after all his wanderings? What is he truly gaining here? Of course Eddy rolls out the cliched \\"it's not the destination, it's the journey\\" hokey.<br /> I don't know, this book is sad in the same way that Jack Kerouac's books are sad. I mean, the longing to belong and live a normal life which can never be had by the writer. It's something that can threaten to overwhelm any happiness or at the least cast a shade on it. <br />There is a lot of interesting information here, what with all the hobo jargon, and it really does make for a good adventure. Call me cynical but at some points I began to debate Eddy's credibility. I mean how do I know that this book is true? At times, his escapades have the feel of lies to me.<br />The fact that I hold this book in my hand kinda ruins his credibility to me. For a man who doesn't want the materialistic and is supposedly a hobo, I'm sure he had to get an agent and make a book deal just like any other person. If you were a true \\"tramp\\", what would you want to publish a book for? Your concern should be with living, not with dredging up the past. I'm much more impressed with Jack Kerouac, who descended into alcholism and death BECAUSE he was famous, thereby proving the fact that he didn't want success and fame. While Hobo is entertaining and has good passages, I believe it should be taken with a grain of salt.	2003-04-27
US	47412112	R2VN5BS1315HSD	0880385359	6406789	The Crystal Shard (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	GOOD OLD FASHIONED SAVAGERY	This is the greatest work of literature I have ever read. Ok, I'm kidding. The Crystal Shard, another in the galaxy of one zillion novels put out by TSR to capitalize on their ever popular gaming system. A cheap tie-in product right? Wrong! This book was a gas! Pardon this expression. Is it out of date? <br />The Crystal Shard referred to in the title is a powerful talisman made by seven undead sorcerors that would use sunlight as its power source. They soon found out that they had made it TOO powerful and perished. In a battle for its possession, gods and demons cast it across the planes. A treacherous apprentice wizard, Akar Kessell, left for dead in the mountains, and becomes the minion of the shard where it fell. Its lust for conquest will bend his mind to the surrounding towns. <br />There are a lot of subplots involved in this book, mostly involving a group of diverse friends. Drizzt, a dark elf, is an exile from his underworld haunts who has pretty much adopted the role of protector of the towns of Icewind, known as Ten Towns. Bruenor, a dwarf, is his best friend, and also Regis, a halfing whose favorite pasttime is fishing and eating and drinking. The character of Wulfgar the barbarian is also introduced. <br />Ten Towns is being plagued by its divisiveness, at some points almost coming to civil war over such issues as fishing rights. Like Greek city-states, all the towns are out for themselves, well, almost all of them. This could lead to their ruin because the barbarian hordes, using a man from Ten Towns as an informant, are preparing to invade. They're tired of living out on the plains. In addition to this threat, the wizard being controlled by the crystal shard is having his own dreams of grandeur. It's up to the main characters to somehow dream up how they can unite the towns and how to defeat these powerful enemies.<br />I really enjoyed this book, probably mostly out of nostalgia's sake, having spent many hours playing D&D in my youth. Of course the whole world is heavily derivative of Tolkien and other past folktales, legends, and fairy tales. That's not a putdown. Nothing is created in a vacuum. There was tons of action and it never got too hokey. I mean, after all, this is heroic fiction. It's supposed to be a little over the top. The next book in the series is Streams of Silver.	2003-04-24
US	47412112	RMM1O5IIEM0S8	0451527046	404458421	Treasure Island (Signet Classics)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	BRING ON THE HYPE LONG JOHN	I didn't really come into the reading of Treasure Island with any expectations even though the tale and characters are iconic. Yes, I knew it involved buried treasure, pirates and Jim Hawkins but was ignorant of the specifics of the plot. All I was expecting was a good tale.  I found that the iconic status of the book was more impressive than the actual work, something not uncommon in the digital age. <br />The family of the young Jim Hawkins' runs a not quite prospering inn and everything seems to be going on its drudging way until a man with no name shows up. He bears a scar and a sea chest and comes to be known as \\"the captain\\". He spends most of his time boozing until some shady chracters show up to talk to him. The captain will draw Jim and his family into his past and a violent present after his death and the discovery of a treasure map. Jim's life will speed up to encompass pirates, pursuit, buried treasure, and that mascot of fish franchises, Long John Silver, and his ever-present parrot on his shoulder. No, the parrot's name is not Polly. <br />Treasure Island is a fast moving narrative that keeps on pumping energy on every page. Stevenson has a real talent at keeping you interested. The character of Jim is well-drawn as are most of the main characters. The problems come with the minor characters. The pirates are completely stupid and you wonder how they could have ever earned a living doing it because they are so incompetent. I really don't see why this book has the place it does in the canon of good literature. It's an average young adult novel.	2003-04-21
US	47412112	R31HAFE20W9AT8	1903402247	55483254	A Secret History	Books	4	12	14	N	N	NOTHING REALLY SECRET HERE	I don't know, for some reason I was already doubting the validity of this book when I read the little bio of the author on the dust jacket describing Taylor as \\"the ultimate Beatles insider\\". It also said that \\"only one person knows exactly what was behind the Fab Four.\\" Please! Actually, only the four Beatles knew that and then only what was in their own individual minds. We are not a race of telepaths! <br />I should right off tell you that Alistair worked for the Beatles or more correctly, their manager, for a period of years and then was fired and after not amounting to much in life after that is finally exposing all their secrets for the world to know! This book is packaged like a National Enquirer but the inside is quite tame.<br />Taylor hired on to Brian Epsteins record store and discovered alongside Epstein those then scruffy, cursing, leather-clad teddy boys who would later become our suit wearing Fab Four playing in the Cavern Club. Alistair soon came to be called \\"Mr. Fix-it\\" by the Beatles and handled all the grub work of the group and Epstein. This book tells about his years with the Beatles, and offers nothing shocking but still is entertaining for some of the personal anecdotes. For example, one time when George Harrison wanted to look at a house, he disguises himself as a chauffeur while Taylor and Patti Harrison charade themselves as a married couple looking at mansions. It does offer glimpses at the personalities of all the Beatles but only in snatches.<br /> The Beatle that Taylor seemed to be closest to and gets the most attention in the book is Paul McCartney. Taylor makes a big deal of how Paul had to cry on his shoulder, literally after his break up with Jane Asher in the 60s. It is basically put on that Taylor was the only person Paul could turn to and there's a little too much self-satisfaction in his reaction to it. Look at me, I was there for a Beatle! <br />Ringo is hardly even mentioned and is even insulted in my opinion. He seems to becharacterized as dumb and just lucky to have landed in the band. John is seen as a genius while Paul is just a good songwriter. George, like Ringo, doesn't really appear in the book even though Alistair does mention that he could have been a good songwriter in his own right if he had stuck up for himself. I guess this erases the fact that towards the end he was writing better songs than Lennon or McCartney (Something/ Here Comes the Sun). <br />I took a lot of this book with a grain of salt. It feels too much the work of a disgruntled ex-employee sometimes. Or the work of wounded friend who believes in the aftermath of rejection that he had a special connection with the Beatles when it seems as if he was just an acquaintance. With the packaging of the book, it seems like an exploitation. Sometimes, it almost feels like Taylor is going to say \\"If it hadn't been for me, the Beatles would never have existed.\\" <br />It is not a secret history. I learned nothing new. Just heard some new stories about the boys personalities, but no new facts. But I did like it though. I welcome any new perspective, however biased, about the greatest group that has ever been....well, ever been to this point.	2003-04-18
US	47412112	R24W2DBDZ8OG8P	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	4	7	11	N	N	SWEPT UNDER THE RUG	In this book, Martin Amis tries to come to grips with the stupidity of the generation before him, some of whose members supported and idealised a man as brutal, if not more so, than Adolf Hitler. Yes, this book is about that great guy, Josef Stalin, a man, or should I say, an insane demon in the guise of a man. <br />Back in the old days, it was fashionable to be in the Communist Party if you were an intellectual. Now, supposedly these people were intellectuals. Much as the German people in WWII claimed that they were unaware of the Jewish extermination, so these \\"intellectuals\\" claimed ignorance of the atrocities being carried out by Stalin. Even after he joined in alliance with Hitler at different points. They ignored the facts and just ballyhooed the greatness of Communism. Later on, in the 50s, some of them would even let their careers be destroyed by adhering to its tenents. Time and again, Amis shows his disgust for these people. <br />The middle section of the book is devoted to a short biography of Stalin that would have fit well into the Penguin Lives series. It is as  cold-blooded and efficent as the man it chronicles and shows the brutal methods of famine, imprisonment, and intimidation that Stalin used to keep control of his country. Stalin killed millions of people, but around the world he was admired as a leader of a great nation. A nation that in which he was killing millions of its inhabitants. Right before he died, he was planning on putting into place a system of anti-Semitism probably just as bad as the Nazis. <br />This book was difficult to read, simply because of its piled horrors. Tortures are short but graphically detailed and the evil of the man piles up on you fast and exhausts you. I became increasingly frustrated with the Russian people themselves. I mean, that they allowed the Communists to take power first, and then to suffer under such awful leaders such as Stalin for decades without a fight. In the end, a people get the leader they deserve, whether good or bad. <br />It's hard to believe that people fought such major battles over Communism back in the day. Yes, we still have Cuba, but that country is stuck in the 1960s. We have North Korea, which is run by a psycho equal to Stalin who can't even feed his people, and we have China, the only real Communist power, who likes to run over its people with tanks. For the most part though, the world recognizes Communism as a dead system. I see it as one of the worst catastrophes of the 20th century, along with Facism and militant Islam. This is a good introduction to the man that is the idol of Saddam Hussein and is a warning to never turn a blind eye to the activities of a tyrant.	2003-04-16
US	47412112	R3LM6MJN7IT14Q	0140437541	348298397	The Italian (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	HEY GOTH MAN	First published in 1797, this was the culmination of Ann Radcliffe's writing career. She was seen as the darling of the Gothic mode, which we would probably put into the genre of \\"thrillers\\" or \\"horror\\". All the appropriate dungeons are here, the hint of demonic influence, the seperation of star-struck lovers, revenge, the searching of dark ruins, and the diabolical and angelic facets of the Church. Radcliffe does go deeper than that though through her paced plotting and and the limited use of sentimentality that destroyed so much of writing back then. The gothic novel would run out its course eventually, but had a great effect on the talent of its day. Keats, Byron, and Shelley all owe at least some of their subject matter and modes of expression to Radcliffe. <br />Well, back to the novel itself. The story opens in the year 1764 in Naples, Italy as a group of English tourists are visiting a church. They notice a diabolical looking man who they are informed can never leave the safety of the church walls because he is an assasin. The place is his last sanctuary from those who wish to kill him. Of course the group asks to hear the tale of the assasin and The Italian begins.<br />The story opens as a young nobleman named Vincentio di Vivaldi spots the beautiful but common Ellena Rosalba during church service and falls in love with her. From this Dantesque beginning we are led into a Romeo and Juliet scenario in which Vivaldi begins to woo her without the approval of his parents. Then we have the apperance of a cowled priest who appears to warn Vivaldi of future events before they happen. Vivaldi chases him a couple of times but all he ever finds is thin air. As the book continues, Vivaldi's mother will stop at nothing to keep her son from marrying his one true love.<br />I didn't have too much hope that I would like this book when I picked it up, having given up on reading a similar work called Melmoth the Wanderer by Charles Maturin. I was very impressed with Radcliffe though. She stayed away from sentimentality and none of the characters was a caricature. They all seemed like deeply drawn personalities. The book had a real modern feel to it, probably because she modeled her stuff on Shakespeare, the most advanced writer of any age. The \\"thriller\\" aspects were quite good too. I found myself desperately wanting to turn the page before I had even read it to know what would happen next. Ann is a writer I will go back to and read again.	2003-04-06
US	47412112	R1G7S5UVXW9BVX	1568582390	997085094	Homecoming	Books	5	2	2	N	N	WHAT COMES AFTER THE WAR?	Everybody knows that war is hell. The thing people forget about is that there is a period after war, sometimes called reconstruction, sometimes called chaos. Especially in a civil war, there are feuds left over that still simmer, or revenge rears its ugly head. Such is the case in Natasha Radojcic-Kane's searing debut novel Homecoming.<br />Homecoming is about a muslim soldier named Halid returning from the Balkan Wars of the 1990's to his village. He finds an almost otherworldly atmosphere has settled over the place. It is a place of paramilitary police who are just as corrupt as the criminals. It is also a place of great poverty where the young have to steal or sell their bodies for money. In one poignant scene Halid sneaks up to a window to gaze on the emaciated form of his former lover as she works in the kitchen. Everyone has been changed by the war and continues to suffer from it even after it is over. Halid is going to be different though, somehow during the war he acquired a great deal of money, and maybe he might be able to rescue himself and his love from the horrible darkness of death by going to America. What follows is a tragedy equal to anything Thomas Hardy or William Faulkner wrote. <br />This book was an experience. It's not really to be enjoyed like entertainment. It's meant to send you looking into yourself and the jaws of war. Sometimes your past comes to haunt you and if you dont free yourself from it, it could destroy you. Even though the author was born in Belgrade, I have no idea if she is writing through first person experience. It doesn't really make a difference. The imagination can be just as gruesome as reality when it comes to war. Just ask Stephen Crane. I highly recommend this novel.	2003-03-31
US	47412112	R1OL80X61V61RA	0375705902	875193537	Slapboxing with Jesus	Books	2	4	16	N	N	NOT A GOOD TEACHER	Books written about the street aren't necessarily good. Some people believe that if you show enough realism and grittiness, in essence, show the street as it truly is, art will result. They're wrong, as is evidenced by this generic collection of stories about young boys sexing it up, fighting, pimping, killing, and basically living like animals. There's something really creepy and unsettling about the subject matter that Lavalle has chosen. <br />I must tell you from the outset that I do not believe in collections of stories that have thin connections between each other, mostly when it's through the characters. To me, they are written by writers without enough vision to craft a novel. They write a lot of stories and then they concoct that they go together. The same goes for this book.<br />All of the stories have to do with young men or boy-children. The first couple of stories work the best because the novelty of the subject and setting hasn't got old yet. In \\"ancient history\\" two friends vie to become successful. \\"pops\\" concerns the first meeting between a boy and his cop father, with all the ensuing awkwardness. \\"kids on colden street\\" shows a boy who gets a kid sister and becomes her protector. In the end he realizes he can protect her from nothing.<br />While I thought the stories in this book were adequate, there was something too craftsmanlike about them. None of the characters were really established enough to care about them through the whole volume. While it had spats of good writing, it was mostly just average.	2003-03-30
US	47412112	R2PGFHA3OPBVK2	0684852705	373427782	Hamlet's Dresser: A Memoir	Books	5	4	5	N	N	BEST SHAKESPEARE  WORK  NOT BY SHAKESPEARE	So little is known about William Shakespeare that we can only truly formulate the meaning of his plays through the filter of our own experiences. Even books that purport to be \\"biographies\\" can only offer their best guesses as to his life since all we basically have is his will and testament and the hearsay of other playwrights such as Ben Jonson. So I've never been one to read books about him or literary criticism after suffering through Harold Bloom's unenlightening Shakespeare. That is, until I came to this work. I was blown away by Hamlet's Dresser by Bob Smith. <br />Bob Smith's early life was pretty unhappy. His parents show very little caring for him. His sister was born handicapped and is the equivalent of a walking vegetable. He is an outcast at school because the other kids make fun of his sister and want nothing to do with him. He has no idea what to do with his life. Bob has all the pressure points that would drive him to suicide or at least a bitterness towards life. One thing saves him though. The discovery of Shakepeare's plays. In them, Smith finds a world that he can inhabit beyond the reach of his unhappy home life. His life reaches another turning point when a friend invites him to work at a Shakespeare festival where he becomes the dresser of the actor playing Hamlet. He later becomes a writer, a director, and teacher of Shakespeare to the masses without any formal degree. <br />This was a very passionate and honest account of one man's life. It was inspiring to me how he overcame so much loneliness and negativity to make his life amount to something. The account of his life is also interspersed with his present job, which consists of teaching Shakespeare to senior citizens. There is something very melancholy and mortal in that act because he remembers all those who have died in the course of his teaching. Not to say that this memoir is morbid. Far from it. I mean it more in the sense that it shows humility. Much like Shakespeare, Smith recognizes that Death settles all things and is one adventure we all share, so let go of the fear of it. It is a very Renaissance concept. I would recommend this work to any Shakespeare fan and any fan of good reading. I would also recommend Al Pacino's film Looking for Richard which this book reminded me of. In the sense that both are trying to bring a living Shakespeare to our age.	2003-03-30
US	47412112	R2JJP25M6JJEUZ	0312252854	338715225	The Music Lesson: A Novel	Books	4	12	13	N	N	THE HAUNTING	In The Music Lesson Katherine Weber does a good job of pulling off a mystery novel bedecked with a love story, or should I say a lust story, with the snob-nosed word \\"literature\\" and carries it off brillantly. <br />As the story opens we meet Patricia Dolan, a 41 year old art historian from America who is currently keeping a low profile in a small cottage on the outskirts of an Irish town of Ballyhoe. Just why she is hiding out becomes readily apparent when we find out that she is in the possession of a stolen Vermeer painting. She is waiting to be contacted by her young cousin, Mickey, who just happens to be her lover. In the meantime, the waiting allows her to think about her past: the death of her daughter and the resulting divorce from her husband, the fierce nationalism of her Irish father, and always the curiosity to see her homeland. She also has to deal with the unknown future she will have to face when Mickey arrives. She is a woman who wonders if she has made the right decisions in her life but knows it's too late to change them even if she made the wrong ones. <br />I liked this book a lot. It's short and compact but has a lot of muscle pumping through its graceful lines. Weber had to pack a lot into each page to get the combined effects of lost love, nostalgia, regret, nationalism, and history to blend effortlessly into a seamless whole. In the end, this novel is a solitary monologue that haunts you after you read it. It was named a New York Times Notable Book and also a Publishers Weekly Book of the Year.	2003-01-28
US	47412112	R1NDYW1SHK7CBR	0670880574	193009937	Marcel Proust	Books	3	8	14	N	N	SHORT BUT SWEET	This is another in the series of Penguin Lives which attempts to give a biography of a famous figure in a short but well written book. This one on Proust is written by the well-known author of such books as Forgetting Elena and other acclaimed works of his own. In a lot of the Penguin Lives, the editors tried to commission another writer who had a lot in common with their subject. White is also a homosexual writer whose works have been vastly acclaimed and this gives him a \\"supposed\\" insight into Proust that other biographers have purposefully ignored. <br />The entire life of Proust is hit on very efficently from his earliest years to his death. I liked the shortness of the book. I mean, I was interested in his life but not THAT interested to read a 500 page book about it. This short work was just right for the average interested reader. It was also written very well and enlightened me about many things about his life. For example, I always knew that he had become a recluse at the end of his life but never knew it was because of asthma. <br />Something negative about the book was that time and again White seems to believe that there was no seperation from Proust's real life and that of his characters. He uses quotes from his novel to comment on his private life which in all authors never quite works. A novel is really not a true relation of a person's life. What really is? Everything is illusion or perception. Another thing that White does is try to put forth the proposition that Proust's homosexuality defined the whole inner cosm of his soul. I mean is Paul Auster or Chuck Pahlaniuk's soul simply filled with being heterosexual. <BR>White seems to belittle Proust's life and his work by trying to accent his sexual preference at the expense of offering new insights into his personal character or novel. I feel that White had a secret agenda, or rather an UNsecret agenda alongside this book. Still, it is entertaining and worth a look if you just want a short look at the life of one of the greatest novelists of all time.	2003-01-19
US	47412112	R29A6BFSZK6A5H	0671695320	84858049	The Legacy of Heorot (Heorot, No 1)	Books	3	10	15	N	N	DEAR, WILL YOU GET THE DOOR, IT'S AN ALIEN!	The first wave of 200 settlers have established an outpost called Avalon on Tau Ceti Four on an island called Camelot. The atmosphere and gravity is pretty much the same as Earth. Vegetables, plants, and animals from Earth are being introduced to the alien environment with mixed results. One thing all of the settlers agree on is that one day the entire planet will be covered with humanity, since there isn't any indigenous intelligent life. Or is there?<br />The 200 settlers are specialized in particular fields and are supposed to be the cream of the crop in their specialty. One thing scientists back on Earth didn't plan for was that during the cryogenic freezing they had to undergo, some would suffer minor brain damage. A few become idiots, some just lose some of the power of memory or critical thinking. All in all, things are going very well. <br />Colonel Cadmann Weylan the military representative and war veteran believes they are going too well, that the colony's security and vigilance is becoming soft. The perimeter of the site is left in disrepair and if he didn't fix it himself, they would be defenceless. He can't quite put his finger on his worry. It becomes apparent when a amphibian alien, similar to Earth's komodo dragons, dubbed a Grendel, finds a taste for terran lifeforms which could lead to the destruction of Avalon. The alien has intelligence and is superfast and a killing machine.<br />The colony is also suffering from internal dissension. Weylan is treated as a goofball because of his constant vigilance. Plus he is in love with Sylvia Faulkland, who just happens to be married to another man, and also pregant with that man's baby. The problem is that the husband knows. Zack Moscowitz, the leader of the colony feels threatened by Weyland's failure to go along with the status quo.  <br />You would think that the combination of three respected science fiction writers would produce a masterpiece for the ages. Much like music supergroups, the end product ends up no better than the artists produce seperately. Sometimes, it's even worse. The same is true here. The book is entertaining, but light years short of being a classic. <br />I liked the relationships in the book. There was some effort to build them between the characters. The bad things about it were the usual gaps in logic that have to exist to make books and movies about monsters work. For people to be killed by a monster they have to be really stupid. The colonists here reject the reality of the monster that is killing them even when there is strong evidence. For example, they have a speedboat race knowing that there could be a Grendel in the water. The fact that the planet is just like Earth reminds me of the old Star Trek episodes where every planet had an earthlike atmosphere. To expect the plants of Earth and other animals, like fish, to thrive there, is beyond belief to me. Another thing is that the thought processes of the Grendels are similar to that of the shark in Jaws in Peter Benchley's novel. \\"Must eat. Kill. Must challenge the pale lifeforms.\\" Actually, this reads more like the dialogue of the indcredible hulk. This novel is also very similar to scenes of James Cameron's Aliens. Actually, parts of Ridley Scott's Alien also. Seeing as how it was published in 1987, one year after Aliens, it makes the plot even more suspicous. Well, for the usual bestseller dreck, this book is pretty good. It's worth reading, but don't think too much. I'm surprised it hasn't been made into a movie yet. It would make a good Michael Bay film.	2003-01-19
US	47412112	R3QR5M913HY5BH	0375508244	739781436	Shark Trouble	Books	2	1	4	N	N	FIND ANOTHER TOPIC AND ANOTHER JOB	You know, when I was a kid I had a fear of the ocean, which in some ways came about because of the movie Jaws. I hadn't even seen the movie in its initial release. I had heard of the plot from an older brother and it didn't take much for an overimaginative 1st grader to be scared of what was lurking unseen in the water's depths as i swam. I think with Shark Trouble, Peter Benchley is trying to repair the public relations disaster of the great white shark. Who knows how many sharks he caused to be destroyed senselessly with his novel.<br />I finally did see the movie and enjoyed it so much that I sought out the novel many years later. ...<br />I don't know why I expected Peter Benchley to be able to write non-fiction any better than fiction, but I did. I guess I picked up this book in the belief that he would have some special insight into sharks or be able to write in an entertaining way. He failed. <br />There is trouble with Shark Trouble on many fronts. Peter has turned what could have been an educational experience into an apology for sharks. He acts like its our fault that sharks attack us. If people get bitten in half, its just a simple mistake by the poor innocent defenseless baby carriage pushing shark. He goes on and on about how great the odds are against being attacked by a shark. I guess those odds are great as long as you aren't the one person getting swallowed in blood. <br />Another thing that brings the book down is Peter's constant assertions of anthropomorphizing, or giving human characteristics, to sharks. He over and over tries to take this godlike stance that he knows what sharks are thinking. The fact is that noone can truly predict what a shark is going to do. That's what wild animal means. He really tries hard to sentimentalize the sharks, saying that those who attack humans are merely misunderstood. I'm sure if he could set up psycho-analysis sessions with sharks he would. It's really cheesy.<br />His stand on the environment is particularlyartless and banal. He even makes up one whole chapter of an 8th grade level story about why sharks are important to our ecosystem. I mean I get the message but not the messenger. <br />Another thing wrong with the book is that a lot of it, doesn't even have to do with sharks. It tells you how to swim and about other dangerous creatures of the sea. It would have been much better to have gone in depth with all the different kinds of sharks. <br />Benchley writes in this book that it he wrote it in reponse to the shark hysteria that was going on a couple years back when  the news media had stories plastered in every outlet. \\"SHARK ATTACK EPIDEMIC!!!\\" and other such things. I agree with him that the media exploited a few incidents and tried their best to panic people but I propose that Benchley is no better. This book is so badly put together and short that I feel it was hastily done to capitalize on the very same media coverage it was written against. This book is truly bad. It is not researched very well and offers no new information on sharks or anything for that matter.	2003-01-19
US	47412112	RVQ7GUKKLYYO8	0140236392	122553797	Vanity of Duluoz: An Adventurous Education, 1935-46	Books	3	8	12	N	N	FOOTBALL AND WAR	All of Jack Kerouac's writings don't really fit into the category of novels. They are more in the form of the sentimental memories of Proust or a man looking back on his life as if he were already dead. The Vanity of Duluoz is no exception to this style. Of course, Kerouac takes the title for his work from the Bible verse in which it is said \\"all is vanity\\". Written just two years before his death, most of the book seems a Cliff's Notes to his entire body of work. <br />The book is subtitled \\"An Adventerous Education 1935-1945\\" and basically covers ground already seen in other works. Except in this one, he is writing a book for his wife, as if to fill in the story of his life to someone. The driving force behind this work is football and war. It follows Kerouac from early high school football games into college and then into the merchant marines and to the formative years of the beat movement. <br />Even though one of Kerouac's biographers, Barry Miles, said this book was written in his \\"fat Elvis period\\", I found the book quite good. Not among the best of his work, but he still had the spark of writing even in the midst of alcoholism. <br />Especially good are his experiences in entering Columbia University and the politics that got involved with his playing time. I didn't know that Jack pretty much decided to write because the coach of his team refused to let him start. So, basically, Kerouac just said \\"I have better things to do than take this. I'm gonna become a writer\\".<br />Something not really touched on in other novels but included in this one is Jack's service in the armed forces and the merchant marines. He wasn't afraid to serve in the military during World War II, he just couldn't take being ordered around. Back then, merchant ships crossing the Atlantic were in just as much danger from German u-boats as any battleship. <br />When the book starting to lose its power was when Jack met the other Beats, who really in the end were a bunch of losers. Kerouacwas like Cool Hand Luke. His friends fed off him and on him, draining his energy and sapping his ideas. Kerouac makes up names that are so thinly artificial for his friends that you feel like you're reading a Dickens novel. When he concentrates on himself, he is a genius. When he writes about others, he becomes weak. He should have kept the radar squarely on himself. <br />This book is pretty good. Average for Kerouac. It is a paradox. It is a novel written about his a joyous youth by a man who sees himself in bitter old age.	2003-01-09
US	47412112	R33HLQFLEPUMPC	0140020039	557256393	A Severed Head	Books	1	5	18	N	N	BORING	I wish I could come up with a better and deeper headline than that but I couldn't. What a big sprawling pointless mass of largess this fifth novel by Iris Murdoch was. I though with the brevity of its pages this would be a little coldblooded shark of a book. That, plus its author, who I had read previously and been marvelouslly entertained, led me to the mistake of reading this.<br />This novel centers on the marriage of Martin and Anotonia Lynch-Gibbons, the heirs to a prosperous wine merchant business. Well, that is, if you could call it a marriage. Martin carries on affairs with multiple women and doesn't have a second thought about it. In fact he feels that his needs can only be met by two women, his wife and his mistress Georgie, a professor of economics.<br /> He is going ahead with his &quot;normal&quot; life when his wife breaks down and admits she is having an affair and is madly in love with her psychiatrist, Palmer Anderson, and wants to get a divorce. This sends Martin into a space of hypocrisy hitherto unheard of. He is hurt and enraged at the exact same behaviors that he exhibits but holds back his tongue because he cannot be without his wife. It complicates things that Martin himself might be in love with Palmer. Martin starts down a road of masochistic love for everyone that does him wrong that makes a martyr look lazy. Everytime he sets his heart on committing to someone, he finds out that other person has someone they love that they were concealing from him. It almost becomes the book of Job starring Pepe le Pew. <br />This book is peopled with confused men and women who would rather be in love with multiple people instead of risking all of their love on one. They are all cowardly and shy of taking risks and thereby put themselves in line for a lot of torture. As the book progresses we learn of affair within affair within affair like a chinese box toy. It is in this that the book begins to show its weakness. When anyone admits to an affair that person admits to an affair and then that person admits to an affair and ad infinitum. I know what farce is but this book goes a little too far. <br />Another thing I didn't like about the book is that the descriptive passages and the dialogue seem to be from two different works of fiction. There is no unity. Murdoch at some times seems to be too worried about color of shoes or what two fingers someone is holding a cigarette between than telling a story. The dialogue seems totally removed and distant from the setting and the characters. You feel as if a play and a poem have been interspliced with no rationale. <br />I would stay away from this book. Check out The Good Apprentice or The Italian Girl for better reads.	2003-01-08
US	47412112	R1T3L0IWL5HLZP	0140020039	557256393	A Severed Head	Books	1	5	15	N	N	BORING	I wish I could come up with a better and deeper headline than that but I couldn't. What a big sprawling pointless mass of largess this fifth novel by Iris Murdoch was. I though with the brevity of its pages this would be a little coldblooded shark of a book. That, plus its author, who I had read previously and been marvelouslly entertained, led me to the mistake of reading this.<br />This novel centers on the marriage of Martin and Anotonia Lynch-Gibbons, the heirs to a prosperous wine merchant business. Well, that is, if you could call it a marriage. Martin carries on affairs with multiple women and doesn't have a second thought about it. In fact he feels that his needs can only be met by two women, his wife and his mistress Georgie, a professor of economics.<br /> He is going ahead with his &quot;normal&quot; life when his wife breaks down and admits she is having an affair and is madly in love with her psychiatrist, Palmer Anderson, and wants to get a divorce. This sends Martin into a space of hypocrisy hitherto unheard of. He is hurt and enraged at the exact same behaviors that he exhibits but holds back his tongue because he cannot be without his wife. It complicates things that Martin himself might be in love with Palmer. Martin starts down a road of masochistic love for everyone that does him wrong that makes a martyr look lazy. Everytime he sets his heart on committing to someone, he finds out that other person has someone they love that they were concealing from him. It almost becomes the book of Job starring Pepe le Pew. <br />This book is peopled with confused men and women who would rather be in love with multiple people instead of risking all of their love on one. They are all cowardly and shy of taking risks and thereby put themselves in line for a lot of torture. As the book progresses we learn of affair within affair within affair like a chinese box toy. It is in this that the book begins to show its weakness. When anyone admits to an affair that person admits to an affair and then that person admits to an affair and ad infinitum. I know what farce is but this book goes a little too far. <br />Another thing I didn't like about the book is that the descriptive passages and the dialogue seem to be from two different works of fiction. There is no unity. Murdoch at some times seems to be too worried about color of shoes or what two fingers someone is holding a cigarette between than telling a story. The dialogue seems totally removed and distant from the setting and the characters. You feel as if a play and a poem have been interspliced with no rationale. <br />I would stay away from this book. Check out The Good Apprentice or The Italian Girl for better reads.	2003-01-08
US	47412112	R18OD18ATZLJ6G	0156027607	74781857	Solaris	Books	5	185	196	N	N	OH, NOW I GET IT	About 5 minutes into the new movie version of Solaris starring George Clooney I could tell it was going to be along the same lines as 2001:A Space Odyssey. We were going to have long extended shots of spaceships docking and very slow development, and with little or no external explanation from the characters. I was right. This could explain why in a recent internet poll, this most recent version of Solaris was voted the most disliked movie of the last 20 years. I liked the movie ok but I felt there were many more layers to discover underneath its sheen that could only be revealed by the original source. So I sought out this novel that was originally published in 1961 and translated from French to English in 1970. <br />As the story begins, Kris Kelvin, a psychologist, is headed to the planet Solaris, a planet that he has studied before. He is to dock with the 3-man orbiting space station above the planet. The unique thing about Solaris is that it appears sentient, but not in any way that human beings can understand. At one time it was a pressing issue to make contact with this planet organism but after decades of trying no real success has been achieved and most scientists have given up. Solaris has shown no response to repeated efforts to communicate with it. Kris doesn't expect that anything has changed but he soon finds out that contact has been made. <br />When he arrives he soon learns that one of the crew members has died and that another has locked himself in his room and refuses to come out and the other speaks in riddles. Then, his dead wife shows up, as real and material as the flesh and blood he remembers. Somehow, Solaris is dragging figures from their memory and making simulations that come to life in the real world. The question is why?<br />I loved this book. It was one of the best science fiction books that I have ever read and the first book in a long time that I have given 5 stars to. Much as the novel of 2001 gave a better understanding of its ownmovie experience, so too does this novel. There is much more of a history to the planet in the novel of Solaris than they had time to cover in the movie, which seemed to be trapped into making a romance. The simulated human beings in the novel are much more dangerous because they have super human strength and at one point, Kris' wife rips a locked metal door off its hinges in an effort to get to him. In the book, there was a lot more sense of suspense and menace lurking throughout. The writing in this translation is beautiful, ranging from the philosophical to the purely expositioning, and all points in between, from love to fear to wonder. <br />One of the things that Lem puts forth in the book is that Mankind does not TRULY want to find any aliens in the universe. He wants to see only reflections of himself because if aliens are really &quot;alien&quot; how could we comprehend them? Therefore, Lem sees the scientists in the book as failures in that they try to comprehend the behavior of Solaris by comparing it to humanity. If something is truly alien, we cannot predict or hypothesize why it acts the way it does. It is alien. I think this was probably the reason why the movie did so bad. Humans want explanation. They want to be able to go, &quot;Solaris is doing that because it is lonely. It has emotions just like me&quot; or something to this effect. <br />Another theme taken up by the book is the nature of identity. What really makes us a person, a human being? Kris' wife at the start does not know that she is an alien construct. If she thinks she is his wife, does that make her that person, even if she only has the memories? This becomes a mighty struggle in that Kris begins to believe he is being given a second chance to make the relationship work. <br />Once again, this was a great novel, and should be sought whether you have seen the movie or not. It will be a great experience either way.	2003-01-07
US	47412112	R13LS0CWGKN6LV	0679750150	483468836	The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea	Books	4	3	4	N	N	BE A SOFTIE AND DIE	Yukio Mishima was a man of great natural literary ability. He was also a very disturbed individual. Now when you put these things together you either get a lunatic or a lunatic who creates great art. Luckily, Mishima did not commit ritualistic suicide before he cranked out some of the greatest Japanese literature yet written. <br />This 1965 novel concerns a trio of characters, and bizarrely enough, an almost incestuous love triangle. Fusako Kuroda is the widowed owner of one of the oldest and most prestigious clothing stores in the country. She is well off but lonely, plus she has to put up with the behavior of her son, named Noburu. Noburu is thirteen and has fallen in with a gang of boys whose sole purpose is to wipe compassion out of their lives. The thing that brings all the boys together is their lack of a father, whether literally, or symbolically. A lot of them are abused or mistreated. For instance, one boy's father makes him lick the plates clean after dinner because he is so stingy about wasting money. He wants to get his money's worth. <br />Noburu's mother has to lock him in his room at night to keep him from going out with the gang. While he is locked up he finds a peephole into his mother's bedroom and sees her and a sailor, named Ryugi Tsukazaki, together, and somehow his entire life becomes clear. <br />Ryugi is a man tired of the sea and wishes to settle down. Noburu is enamored of the man's masculinity, never having had a real father and soon comes to idol worship the sailor. So does his gang. But what will happen when the gang realizes that the sailor is just as fallible as their own fathers? That he is not a god? <br />Mishima is a master of pressure. Whether it is the puberty about to explode out of Noburu or the sexuality of Fusako or the violence of the gang or the dreams of Ryugi, Mishima portrays them all equally well. None of these forces can be contained and they make this a bloody scar of a book. The characters are drawn deep, the metaphysical ponderings are beautiful and the pacing is perfect.<br /> Not really any negatives about it, except maybe Noburu's gang is a little too well spoken. They talk like college graduate students. I guess the excuse for this would be that they come from elite families and were afforded the best schools. I liked the fact that it was rich kids doing the street gang, and not poor ghetto rats. Just because you have all the advantages in life doesn't mean you show goodness. Mishima masterfully criticizes the breakdown of the family and all the resulting anguish it brings. He also does a number on the rich. Exquisite book. I look forward to reading his many other works.	2002-12-31
US	47412112	R1SZDEV1863EN2	0441104029	357442714	Children of Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book Three)	Books	3	6	12	N	N	LET THE CHILDREN RUN THE SHOW	In the novel Dune, Frank Herbert created an original world of fiction that could go toe to toe with Middle-Earth. In the subsequent novels, like an aging rock star, Herbert has thrown out uninspired mess. While an improvement over Dune Messiah, Children of Dune, the 3rd novel in the Dune series, isn't much better. <br />Leto and Ghanima Atreides, the twin children of Paul Atreides, are now nine years old and struggling with the curse of being pre-born. When you are pre-born, it means that all of your ancestors exist in your mind, all their memories and experiences are a part of your consciouness. The danger is that one of these memories can rise up and seize control of your mind, a state called \\"abomination\\". We could call it possession. <br />The two twins are being raised by their aunt Alia, also a pre-born, who has taken over the reins of the Empire after the almost certain death of her brother Paul. Along with her priesthood, she holds sway over the world of Arrakis, and thereby holds power over the spice and the universe. The twins learn that she is harboring a horrible secret.<br />Not everyone is satisfied with Alia's rule. Those Fremen who adhere to the old ways have begun to grumble and to seek ways to reverse what is happening to their planet. Also complicating things are the plots of Farad'n, the grandson of Shaddam IV, the emperor deposed by Paul Atreides. It is up to Leto and Ghanima to renew the dying spirit of Arrakis, and also to avoid the trap of prophecy that claimed their father. <br />I can't really say I enjoyed this book. I read it. The thing about the first book of the Dune series is that it combined action, politics, philosophy, religion, and other genres. In the next two books, Herbert has taken out all the action and just turned them into almost Platonic dialogues. It's almost as if he got consumed by his message of environmentalism and philosophy and ideas outstripped his talent to portray them. Maybe he was a one book wonder. I'll have toread his non-Dune novels to be a judge of that. When there is action, which probably adds up to two whole scenes comprising about 5 pages of the 400, this book is great. I don't know if I will continue with the series.	2002-12-24
US	47412112	RWLVO55DJV3U7	0811211932	533113984	Aller Retour New York (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	3	2	7	N	N	DEAR AMERICA, I HATE YOU	Henry Miller kind of arrived late to the whole expatriate game of the 1920's in which writers like Hemingway and Fitzgerald blazed their way across the literary firmament. By the time Miller had gotten there, America was in the throws of the Great Depression and the shadow of Hitler was beginning to move across Europe. Miller moved to Paris at the instigation, or more likely, manipulation of his wife June. Soon after he met and began a long affair with Anais Nin. In 1935, Miller went to New York, his former home, in pursuit of Nin and produced Aller Retour New York, about his adventures in his old home city. <br />This book is actually a 77 page letter to his friend Alfred Perles back in Paris. On the surface it seems a letter of hate about the United States. Miller had found his place in France and after that, no other country could come close to him. They were all inferior. He resents the fact that America is new and has no real history. Miller feels more at home with decadence and rot and ruins, decay. He says that \\"nothing vital was ever begun here....nothing of value.\\" He offers up critiques of the artistic types in Greewich Village by showing up the literary salon hags who vampire off of writers and artists. Miller hates technology and prophecizes about the time when skyscrapers will rule the horizons. I'm sure if he had lived to our day, he would have hated the internet and computers. Most of his hate seems artifical, maybe a defense mechanism that allows him to escape his past, for instance, the first wife and child that he abandoned. Or to do away with what he considers the past, he has to insult it. He has some nice descriptive passages and even though he wrote one thing, you can sense that underneath it, he enjoys writing about New York. <br />Aller Retour is very instructive in showing the underside of literature, in the sense that for every famous writer around back then, there was a Henry Miller type scumming around in the gutters looking for bare subsistence. It also offers nice vignettes of the artistic life of the time and a glimpse into the philosophy that he lived his life by.	2002-12-08
US	47412112	R2SEWRZYS5T4VR	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	3	2	5	N	N	GOODNESS CAN BE SO DULL!	In How to be Good, Nick Hornby takes on the issue of what goodness truly is. Is it an altruistic thing or do people subscribe to it simply to make themselves FEEL good? <br />David and Katie are your normal married couple in their late 30's, and typical of most marriages. Yes, in other words, they are terribly unhappy. Katie is pondering what the meaning of her life is about. It can't simply be to be a wife, to raise the kids, and to service her husband. After all, she is a doctor, respected if not loved by her patients. Her husband is the one who doesn't have a real job, except when he writes columns for the local newspaper. So she decides to have an affair to lessen the boredom of it all.  Their marriage is already dead but it's almost as if noone wants to rock the boat or they are too afraid to get a divorce.<br />All this changes when David takes their daughter to a faith healer called GoodNews who cures her skin condition with just a touch of his hand. He converts David to an almost Christ-like world view in which we are put here merely to help others. We should not hate, or harbor anger. We should love everyone, we should give our spare bedroom to ex-criminals, we should give our extra luxury items to the poor. We don't need 3 computers and 3 televisions in one house. Give them to the poor! Of course this is going to create havoc with Katie's already shaky hold on reality and meaning. Katie has no idea what to think of it, and the family becomes split with David and their daughter on one side and Katie and their son on the other. <br />Hornby confronts what goodness is. Honestly, someone who is good in American culture is looked down upon and ridiculed as being &quot;a goody two shoes&quot; etc. Really, when it comes down to it, people that always do the right thing are pretty dull and a drag. That is why David drives her up the wall. <br />Hornby does a good job here but I doubt his lasting impact as a writer simply because he peppers his work with so many pop culture references. Who is going to remember Britney Spears in a hundred years, or even in 20? He seems too stuck on our own time instead of making something timeless. This book was good, but not great. Hornby doesn't really seem like a writer who will grow, he will just stay at the same level as this.	2002-12-06
US	47412112	R1YUPCIL131MQ2	0811205568	838428884	The Smile at the Foot of the Ladder	Books	2	6	10	N	N	WHAT ARE YOU STARING AT??	Like all writers who are ultra-realistic, Henry Miller definitely had a bent of surrealism and magic lying underneath his style. Check out such books as The Cosmological Eye to see that part of him in action. Unfortunately, most writers like Miller are never able to effectively embrace this part of themselves. They are too busy trying to get to the &quot;truth&quot; of human life and thereby do not want to be &quot;unrealistic&quot;. <br />The Smile at the Foot of the Ladder is an example of Miller trying to get to realistic truth through unrealistic means. It was originally written as a story to be placed in a collection of circus and clown drawings by the artist Fernand Leger. It was later rejected by Leger, so Miller decided to publish it himself with his own crude but perfectly suited water paint illustrations. <br />The story is about a famous clown named Auguste who has become a prisoner of his own celebrity. Unlike most entertainers, he wishes not only to delight his audiences, but to bring them to an inner peace hitherto only realizable through God. He is a master of his trade but one day as he is sitting in front of his mirror, he realizes that he has no life outside of his career. This triggers an attempt to flee himself by wandering through the country anonymously, searching for the meaning of life. <br />While an admirable try, this short fable on the question of identity and purpose is not very effective. Its very brevity defeats Miller's usually rambling and wayward prose. If he had wished he could probably have made a Don Quixote type novel out of this story but Miller probably got frightened from making something so removed from his own experience and the inborn romanticism of its plot. He should have given it a try. This is a minor work. Seek out his Rosy Crucifixion to get Miller at his zenith.	2002-12-05
US	47412112	R3L3NSLZMT119D	0441008933	149450515	Ship of Fools	Books	2	4	6	N	N	UNSOLVED MYSTERIES IN SPACE	These are the voyages of the starship Argonos, its 5-year mission to.....whoops, what is our mission? Where are going? Where did we come from? This is pretty much the setup for this Philip K. Dick award winning novel by Richard Russo. The Argonos is a starship that has been in space so long that all memory of its mission has been forgotten. Was it meant as an exploration vessel? A ship to make contact with alien life? Or was it a liferaft from a doomed Earth? Nobody knows. So they simply wander the universe with no purpose. I guess that would make them intergalactic existententialists? <br />The ship is divided into distinct and competing social classes with the military, educated and the religious orders at the top while the workers grind away down below. In fact the captain of the ship is losing his grip over his command to the plotting of Bishop Saldano. The main character of the novel is Bartolomeo Aguilera, the boyhood friend and most trusted advisor of the captain. A signal from an unknown planet brings the <BR>Argonos to a deserted world. Well, it's not quite deserted, in a sealed section of a settlement they find thousands of human skeletons impaled on hooks. They show evidence of torture and horrible deaths. Soon after, another signal is received which will lure them to an alien spacecraft and even greater mystery.<br />This novel had so much potential, but it was squandered. Russo never capitalizes on the suspense or horror of the first discovery. Most of the book concerns uneventful exploration, similar to Arthur C. Clarke's novel Rendezvous with Rama. It's not very engaging. If I wanted to read about exploration I would buy a memoir of a spelunker, not a science fiction novel. This aspect of the book was just plain boring. The human interaction between the characters was great, especially between Aguilera and the captain, and also a tragic love story between Aguilera and a woman priest. <br />Another negative about the book was the lack of any resolutionor explanation of questions which pile up in the book. It's like Russo leaves us hanging at the end just to prove how mysterious the universe really is. There's also a subliminal Christian message underlying the whole novel. Maybe the problem with this book was that it was underground religious fiction.	2002-11-02
US	47412112	RZG52YZJGU6XV	0811211908	750495151	The Hour of the Star (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	3	15	24	N	N	COULD YOU GIVE ME SOME MORE BOOK?	You know you're not stepping into a utopian novel when the main character's summation of thoughts on her identity are \\"I am a typist and a virgin, and I like coca-cola.\\" That's it. No more. No great ambitions or passions, well, except for wanting to look like Marilyn Monroe, but she's ugly. People try to ignore her. This is the main character, a young loser named Macabea, whose happiness is the happiness of an idiot. <br />This novel, or really novella, since it only consists of about 70 odd pages, is at once a throwback to the naturalism of writers such as Zola, and also an example of post-modern metafiction. <br />The narrator of the tale is a disaffected aristocrat who seems to be making up the character of Macabea to console his own misery. In other words, it is thrown in our face again and again that he is making up this story, so dont believe it. Here we have the failure of post-modern writers. They believe that readers are not aware that the story they are reading is make-believe, so they have to show their cleverness and go \\"Aha, look, this is fake, I'm making it up!!! ha ha!!!\\". Basically in doing this, the author is saying his or her readers are nimrods who have no grip on reality. <br />Once the narrator gets out of the way and allows Lispector to tell a story, it is quite good. The book was too short to make a judgement of it. I do have a vague feeling of disquiet upon finishing it though. Pity? You see, Macabea is never going to get a chance to improve her life. Born into poverty with no parents and a cruel aunt having raised her, she has no education. There is noone to look out for her. Well, until she picks up a boyfriend, who just happens to be a murderer and likes to watch butchers do their job and gets strangely aroused by it. <br />The book seems to be about seeking peace. About seeking self-fufillment. Or to put it better, in the Taoist tradition, to not seek and yet find. Maybe Macabea was the lucky one. She was at peace because she had no needs, no ambition. Much like a doctor that treats her in the novel, she wants to have enough money to where she can do what she's always wanted: Nothing.	2002-09-29
US	47412112	R261BVHS8LM71X	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	1	1	N	N	THEY'RE HERE.....FOR THE MILLIONTH TIME	One thing I can say about Stephen King is that he's consistent. He's not going to surprise you with any new tricks or ever become a greater writer than he already is. King is going to write well no matter what happens. This is the case with Dreamcatcher, a novel which is not only derivative of other science fiction novels and movies, but also of Stephen King's other works, such as It and The Tommyknockers. <br />Similar to It, a group of 4 friends who shared a turning point in their lives as kids reform as a group to combat a new evil. They have a telepathic link with each other and certain extrasensory powers, such as the ability to track down missing people and items. They call it \\"seeing the line\\". They have an annual hunting trip miles away from civilization in a cabin called The Hole in the Wall. It seems to be the only highlight in their miserable lives. This year is going to be different. <br />A man stumbles out of the woods, and in a subversively comedic way which destroys the creepiness of the novel, cannot stop passing gas and burping. And man, do they smell. He can't remember much about how he ended up wandering out in the woods but later, in a combination of Alien and The Thing, we figure out what the real deal is. It turns out that the four men are the only thing standing between the world and an alien takeover. <br />Everything in this book has been done before. I could list a ton of movies that Dreamcatcher borrows from :Alien, The Thing, Invasion of the Body Snatchers, War of the Worlds, etc. The lack of originality really bothered me in the sense that every Michael Crichton book does. This novel seems to be more like an excuse to make a movie than anything else. In this sense it reminds me of Rose Red. I mean, it's good, but King can do so much better. <br />King is such a strong writer that he overcomes this and is able to entertain and scare you. I think he is one of the greatest contemporary writers when he talks about childhood. Like Dickens, King can sometimes make up for his poor plot by excelling at character. <br />The beginning of the book is great as the characters are introduced and the scene at the cabin starts to unfold. As soon as the aliens are revealed and other characters start entering (such as a crazy general named Kurtz who has been sent by the government to eliminate the aliens), the book starts to sink into B-movie mode. It would have been much scarier just to concentrate on the four men isolated at the cabin by a blizzard.<br />Don't get me wrong, I didn't want to put this book down, it's just that in the hands of a weaker writer, Dreamcatcher would've never worked. Nobody else could have gotten away with it except King. I agree with him though, in the sense that he says it's time to retire. His books are just retreading the same tired ground. For example, his new book is basically just Christine redone. Check out Salem's Lot and The Shining for a better read of this author.	2002-09-29
US	47412112	R2EYUDHSTCNC0U	0345347641	772629037	Deryni Checkmate (Chronicles of the Deryni)	Books	3	19	19	N	N	THE CHURCH STRIKES BACK	The middle piece of a work in a trilogy is usually less satisfying than its bookend pieces simply because you know nothing will be resolved until the third work. In Deryni Checkmate this attribute is not so glaring as it could've been. Kurtz has written a novel that stands alone or as part of the series. <br />Deryni Checkmate takes up right where Deryni Rising left off as King Kelson tries to organize his kingdom after defeating an evil sorceress. He has many problems working on his mind. First, the powerful Archbishop Loris is using the chaos to further his end of getting rid of all Deryni or at least making them renounce their powers. Similar to Adolph Hitler and the Jews, Loris uses the Deryni as a scapegoat for everything evil in the world. He is also covertly supplying aid to a rebel leader, Warin, who believes he was appointed by God to wipe all Deryni off the face of the earth. So what if Warin believes that he is a messiah? Loris believes he can control him. Also, Wencit of Torenth, a Deryni lord, plans to start a war for the opposite reason, to extend Deryni rule over all humanity for once and for all. Can you blame him? The Deryni have been slaughtered and harassed for 200 years. <br />The Church's first order of business is to isolate Kelson from his best friend and mentor, Morgan. His offense? Practicing Deryni magic out in the open, a blasphemy against God. In this novel, Kelson is really not the main character. Instead, Kurtz focuses on the adventures of Morgan and his cousin, the priest Duncan as they try desperately to evade the Church and Warin and still be able to help the young king see his way through what is rapidly developing into a civil war. <br />Deryni Checkmate is a more psychological novel than Deryni Rising, focusing instead on the moral decisions facing the characters than swordfights. What I like about this fantasy world is that it is fantasy without all the magical unicorns and orcs and goblins that fluff most of the genre. It has more to do with the relations between two races. The series is also a cautionary tale about the power of the Church. When the Church serves as a brake for society, a force to hold us back until we are wise enough to use power for good, it's positive. When the Church becomes an Exterminator, a prosecutor, it becomes a servant of evil. <br />This is a good series. I don't know why it's currently out of print. Well, I guess there is a reason. It doesn't sell. It's too bad. You can always pick them up at used bookstores or here on Amazon. The next book in the series is High Deryni.	2002-09-16
US	47412112	RS2T4MTBMRKOK	0345347633	165652185	Deryni Rising (Chronicles of the Deryni, No 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A GOOD START	There are plots afoot in the Kingdom of Gwynedd. The king has been assasinated, leaving his fourteen year old son, Kelson, to inherit the throne. Powerful forces are aligning themselves in the vulnerable time before his coronation. Even those closest to him have a hidden agenda which he will have to overcome in order to survive.<br />Published in 1970, Deryni Rising is the first novel in the Deryni series which Katherine Kurtz continues to expand on to the present day. The story is set in a mideval kingdom similar to Earth, what with kings and the Church ruling the earthly and spiritual affairs of men. The difference is that there is a quasi-mortal race called the Deryni, sorcerors, which also inhabit the land. There are good and evil Deryni, but most humans regard them with fear and the Church persecutes them, seeing them as unholy servants of the Devil. <br />One such evil Deryni is Charissa, a sorceress whose father was defeated and killed by Prince Kelson's father. She has sworn revenge and will stop at nothing to get it. In order to defeat her, Kelson will have to learn the ways of magic, even though being initiated into them will isolate himself from those who would normally be his allies. <br />This novel was a good opening book of a series. It never got sappy as a lot of fantasy novels do. Even though Kelson is young, he is portrayed very well and we only have to deal with behavior like sticking his tongue out at people very rarely. It never got dull because there was always a plot within a plot going on. As I said, this is a the first novel of a series so it can't really be a classic on its own. The next novel in the series is Deryni Checkmate.	2002-09-07
US	47412112	R1IDRT06I60OJR	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A TIME FOR WAR, A TIME FOR PEACE	Right off the bat, I just want to tell you that Forever Peace does NOT take up where The Forever War left off. In fact, it has nothing to do with that universe in which Earth was fighting against aliens. Joe Haldeman, instead is again examining some of the same problems or themes that he covered in that earlier work. Namely, the detrimental effects of war on the human soul. <br />I truly believe that The Forever War is one of the greatest American novels about war. With Forever Peace, Haldeman has again written a great novel, but not quite up to the level of that work. The year is 2043 A.D. and a world war, known as The Ngumi War, is raging.  On one side you have The Alliance, comprised mostly of industrialized countries like the U.S. On the other you have the Ngumi, composed of third world countries who grew sick of being pushed around by The Alliance. The real sparkpoint of the war is that the Alliance has a monopoly on \\"nanoforges\\", machines that can produce anything if you give it the right raw materials. Nobody has to work for a living because everything you desire can be simply materialized. You do have to serve in the army though. <br />The Alliance wages war using telepathically controlled robots called \\"soldier-boys\\" against the less equipped human soldiers of the Ngumi. Julian Class, the main character is one of the soldier boys who begins to question the purpose of the war. After he finds out about a project on Jupiter that just might end the universe as we know it, he joins a conspiracy to bring about a forever peace. <br />I enjoyed the book. The theme of a technologically superior power taking on a primitive but dedicated force is a theme often repeated. The world portrayed in this book is very close to our own, when the \\"have-nots\\" are basically running planes into the symbols of the \\"haves\\". I could very easily see the situation coming to pass in the future when rich countries have access to technology, whether medical, informational, etc., and not sharing with 3rd world countries because they can't pay the price. It happens today with prescription medicines. Millions probably die in Africa because they cannot pay for the medicine or they don't have the technology to save lives. Who's to say a guerilla war won't start to gain leverage to get that technology? Or even, as in the case of terrorism today, striking just to express anger about what they \\"think\\" America stands for. <br />Ultimately, this novel does offer hope and while being a tale with a moral, it also offers action and suspense. Forever Peace won both the Hugo and Nebula Awards.	2002-09-07
US	47412112	R1Q3YH4ILKL71C	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	19	21	N	N	ENTERING THE WASTELAND	The novel Dune is one of those works that you hear of by reputation as being a classic and which you always see in the bookstore but never seem to pick up to read. I had seen the David Lynch film when I was younger and was confused and bored by it. I borrowed a copy of the Dune tv mini-series recently, and after watching one episode I found the story intriguing but the special effects lacking. So I decided to read the book in order to experience a better effects company, my imagination. <br />To me, one of the things that makes Dune unique is its glimpse of what the future holds for the human race. It isnt a future controlled by machines and dominated by technology as so many science fiction worlds are. The universe that Frank Herbert creates here is a humanistic one, almost a mideval renaissance world. Going along with that thought, this universe is filled with court intrigue. The known universe is loosely ruled by an emperor named Padashan IV who keeps his rule going with the threat of his imperial guard, elite fighting units called Sardaukar. He also keeps his noblemen in suspicion of each other and sometimes helps bring about actual wars between them if it suits his purpose. <br />As the book opens, one of his most respected noblemen, Duke Atreides, is sent to the desert planet of Arrakis (Dune) to take over spice production. Spice is the most important product in the universe and whoever controls it, controls power, and brings danger on themselves. One of the sources of conflict is that the Atreides have replaced the House Harkonnen, their bitter enemies, on Arrakis, so the whole place smells like a trap waiting to spring. The Harkonnens have sworn eternal war, called \\"kanly\\" with the Atreides and it is only a question of when and how they will strike. In addition to this, there are mysterious native inhabitants on Dune, known as Fremen, whose allegience is unknown, and the Duke also has to deal with giant sandworms who can swallow ships whole. <br />The main character of the book is Paul Atreides, son of the duke, a fifteen year old boy trained by the best fighters in the galaxy and also learned in the ways of his Bene Gesserit mother. The Bene Gesserits remind me of the Jedi in Star Wars. They are trained psychics who have strange powers feared and respected among the general populace, such as future vision, and can sometimes control weak minds and sorta steer the galaxy. Some say that Paul is destined for some terrible purpose that will lead the human race to a new destiny.<br />This is a great book. Like the Lord of the Rings, you can tell that Herbert not only wrote this book, but in the process developed and shaped his world with legends and past histories that are only hinted at in this work. There is lots of action and adventure and also religious questions and philsophy, almost a little for every kind of ruler. It does have its dull moments, especially after Paul meets his destiny, but you have to expect that anytime you have a work that is an \\"epic\\". There's so much information that not all of it can be interesting. There is a large cast of characters, so I would maybe suggest watching the first episode of the tv series like I did because it gives you a visual reference for most of the main characters. I'm going to start the next book, Dune Messiah, today.	2002-08-24
US	47412112	RFR5VYDF7V9N6	0934834725	109515191	Light And Shadows: Selected Poems and Prose of Juan Ramon Jimenez	Books	2	4	6	N	N	I'D LIKE SOME MORE	When I started getting into Spanish poetry the only real place I could go to read poets such as Juan Jimenez was my university library. You can't mark in library books though, well, I guess you can if you don't get caught, so I started combing bookstores for copies of my favorites. Besides Lorca, the great Spanish poets were non-existent on the bookshelves. Light and Shadows is an example of making do with a book even though it is a horrible representation of the poet Jimenez. The poems are great, I just needed more of them.<br />Jimenez is a poet who falls into the old cliche of the poet as a seeker of truth, the poet as a revealer who strips away the false surfaces of things and gets to the spiritual truth. In one poem, he says that he wishes poems, \\"like the sky, would yield at every moment all things\\" and that his greatest achievement would be to write a \\"naked book\\". He wants to get to the basic essence of all things. In one poem, \\"To Dante\\", he gives the ulitmate compliment to his fellow poet by writing \\"Your sonnet is like/ a nude and chaste woman/ who set me on her lap/ embracing me with her celestial arms\\". He is struggling for purity of mind, of emotion in all his poems.<br />Jimenez is no epic writer. He writes efficent short lyrical poetry for the most part. He is a great nature poet too, echoing more than once the feel and style of Japanese and Chinese haiku and epigrams. He is also a sensualist along the lines of John Keats. When he combines his nature and sense strains he is particularly effective. <br />The best work in this book is a series of prose poems taken from a diary he wrote while he was visiting New York City in which he comments on the vibe of the city and its hypocritic literati. There are too few of these entries included in this book. In fact, there's too few of everything. If his entire collected works weighed a ton, this representation would weigh an ounce.<br />That brings me to the problem of this book. In the prologue, the editor says that he is producing this book because not enough of Jimenez's work is available to the english reading public. Originally, he had produced a pamphlet of 14 poems. After reading this book, the problem still remains. This book is really nothing more than a pamphlet in my mind. It contains 47 pages of poetry and and the other 20 pages are excerpts from Platero and I, a prose piece about a boy and his donkey. Personally, the inclusion of Platero is needless. I wanted more poems. <br />The poems that are in here are quite good but there's just simply not enough of them. Jimenez wrote poems for 50 years and this is the best you can do, include the equivalent of maybe 2 poems for every year of his life? Looking on Amazon, I see much more promising editions of his work, so maybe they will be more satisfying than this teaser of a book. Demand more than this.	2002-08-12
US	47412112	R1OWIV2PTJN17O	0452277337	153627	Le Divorce (William Abrahams Book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	OH MY CHERI	Ever since the dawn of the last century, artists of all types have flocked to Paris to get away from their own cultures and to find an audience for their work. In recent times though, Paris has begun to lose its prestige. It's almost a cliche to want to go there now. New York City has stepped into that void and has become the cultural mecca of the West. Le Divorce is almost like a ghost-town homage to Paris, showing not a culture that thrives, but one that only lives to spit in the face of American consumer culture. They mistake animosity for vitality.<br />Isabel Walker, a young and pretty film school dropout, has come to Paris supposedly just to hang out with her pregnant stepsister who is married to a Frenchman. Why she's really  there is that she can't figure out what to do with her life. In fact, she doesn't want to do ANYTHING. Due to a rather sheltered lifestyle she lived in Santa Barbara, California, with beachfront property, she's rather spoiled. Her stepsister, Roxy, is a poet, and her parents have always encouraged her in that pursuit, one which Isabel sees as useless. On the other hand, they've been trying to push Isabel into some mind-numbing zombified Mcjob. So I guess she's trying to just get some breathing room.<br />After she arrives, she finds out it's not the ideal situation she believed it would be. Roxy's husband is having an affair. Not only does Isabel have to help her navigate through this situation with the French and American sides of her family, but finds herself falling in love in a way she could never imagine with a man she could never imagine.<br />I liked the book. The word that comes to mind is \\"elegant\\".  The book goes through a lot of moods from love to hate to gentleness to great cruelty and madness but never loses its voice or style. I thought the conflict between the two cultures was shown with great effect. No matter what Isabel does, the Persands (that's the French side) look down on her and her sister as little violent animals.<br /> The French people in this book are pretty much portrayed as Americans have stereotyped them: cold, snooty, rude, distant, reasoning to a fault, emotionless. The book makes no headway in understanding the French people. According to Johnson, the best we can hope for is mutual toleration, which I do not agree with. The book repeats the theme of nationalism causing wars and leading to all kinds of persecution but the French in this work are just short of being Aryans. They don't like to mix blood or speak or respect foreigners. I guess I was just hoping that there would be more of a conciliation between the two cultures. Instead, the French are shown being Americans and not even being aware of it. <br />Even though I'm commenting seriously on this work, the book IS a comedy!  Ironic and biting comedy but it's funny. For example a quote in one of the chapters is:<br />\\"Paris, city of amusements, pleasures, etc., where four-fifths of the inhabitants are dying of unhappiness.\\"<br />I enjoyed the main character of Isabel. She's spoiled but interesting and funny.  <br />I thought this was a cool book and it has a cool cover by Nina Berkson who does all of Diane's books. Le Divorce was a National Book Award Finalist.	2002-08-11
US	47412112	R28F1AFMXGB5K5	0452277337	153627	Le Divorce (William Abrahams Book)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	OH MY CHERI	Ever since the dawn of the last century, artists of all types have flocked to Paris to get away from their own cultures and to find an audience for their work. In recent times though, Paris has begun to lose its prestige. It's almost a cliche to want to go there now. New York City has stepped into that void and has become the cultural mecca of the West. Le Divorce is almost like a ghost-town homage to Paris, showing not a culture that thrives, but one that only lives to spit in the face of American consumer culture. They mistake animosity for vitality.<br />Isabel Walker, a young and pretty film school dropout, has come to Paris supposedly just to hang out with her pregnant stepsister who is married to a Frenchman. Why she's really  there is that she can't figure out what to do with her life. In fact, she doesn't want to do ANYTHING. Due to a rather sheltered lifestyle she lived in Santa Barbara, California, with beachfront property, she's rather spoiled. Her stepsister, Roxy, is a poet, and her parents have always encouraged her in that pursuit, one which Isabel sees as useless. On the other hand, they've been trying to push Isabel into some mind-numbing zombified Mcjob. So I guess she's trying to just get some breathing room.<br />After she arrives, she finds out it's not the ideal situation she believed it would be. Roxy's husband is having an affair. Not only does Isabel have to help her navigate through this situation with the French and American sides of her family, but finds herself falling in love in a way she could never imagine with a man she could never imagine.<br />I liked the book. The word that comes to mind is \\"elegant\\".  The book goes through a lot of moods from love to hate to gentleness to great cruelty and madness but never loses its voice or style. I thought the conflict between the two cultures was shown with great effect. No matter what Isabel does, the Persands (that's the French side) look down on her and her sister as little violent animals.<br /> The French people in this book are pretty much portrayed as Americans have stereotyped them: cold, snooty, rude, distant, reasoning to a fault, emotionless. The book makes no headway in understanding the French people. According to Johnson, the best we can hope for is mutual toleration, which I do not agree with. The book repeats the theme of nationalism causing wars and leading to all kinds of persecution but the French in this work are just short of being Aryans. They don't like to mix blood or speak or respect foreigners. I guess I was just hoping that there would be more of a conciliation between the two cultures. Instead, the French are shown being Americans and not even being aware of it. <br />Even though I'm commenting seriously on this work, the book IS a comedy!  Ironic and biting comedy but it's funny. For example a quote in one of the chapters is:<br />\\"Paris, city of amusements, pleasures, etc., where four-fifths of the inhabitants are dying of unhappiness.\\"<br />I enjoyed the main character of Isabel. She's spoiled but interesting and funny.  <br />I thought this was a cool book and it has a cool cover by Nina Berkson who does all of Diane's books. Le Divorce was a National Book Award Finalist.	2002-08-11
US	47412112	R27M47FMGKIWE4	0679722610	645212410	Red Harvest	Books	3	14	23	N	N	LIVE BY THE SWORD	Despite what Europeans say, Americans do have a culture all their own. This is proven by the existence of our own myths, legends, tall tales, archtypes. One of our most repeated myths which you will see repeated in fictions of all kinds, be it films or books, is that of the law coming to tame an uncivilized society. It is merely a shadow of that oldest of myths, namely, of gods giving laws to humans. In Red Harvest, a detective known as the Continental Op is the law, and much like Gods of old, he punishes those who transgress. <br />The Continental Op has been summoned to Personville (also known as Poisonville to those in the know) but when he gets there his client has been murdered. His client's father, a local business bigwig named Elihu Willsson, hires him to clean up the town. You see, to prevent unionization of his companies, he called in all sorts of criminal elements to brutally supress them, whether through hook or crook, or just plain murder. But after doing their job, Elihu cannot just politely ask them to leave. So he offers the Op money to get rid of them any way he can. Out of a sense of outrage, justice, or just plain bloodlust, the Op accepts. <br />This novel almost seems a horror novel to me. There's a lot of blood, lots of murder, and the characters are all creepy and grotesque. For example, one character is described as \\"a bow-legged man with a long jaw like a hog's\\". At one point in the bloodshed, the Op talks about \\"going out to feed\\" as though he is a vampire who feeds on violence. It reminds me of the demonic descriptions of Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon. There's something very unsettling in Dashiell Hammett's books. Like H.P. Lovecraft's stories, you always sense some monster moving underneath the prose that might burn your eyes out if you saw it full on. <br />Having said this, except for that feeling of disturbance, Hammett is not the great writer that he is cracked up to be. From the 3 works I have read of his, he's not that much betteror worse than the typical contemporary crime writer. His characters seem pretty blank and empty but this actually helps out the stories which usually involve the most animalistic motives. It is an interesting experience to read his books, but I don't know if it's a rewarding or entertaining one. I guess if you want to feel unsettled, ill at ease, check his work out. If you like Red Harvest, there are two other books featuring the same character, The Continental Op, and The Dain Curse. In the end I am more impressed by this author's influence on American myth than the actual bones of his writing.	2002-08-06
US	47412112	R1QMLV3VZFEP23	0441172695	445283043	Dune Messiah (The Dune Chronicles, Book 2)	Books	2	9	19	N	N	THE BOOK THAT FAILED	...It has always boggled my mind as to how a writer who can write one of the greatest science fiction novels of all time can turn around and write shamefully crafted work. But Frank Herbert has succeeded at this. With flying colors. Not only is Dune Messiah one of the most static and lifeless works I have ever read by any author. There is tons of badly written science fiction out there of the commercial dumb character dumb plot type but at least they breath, they live, even in their patheticness. Dune Messiah is still-born, oxygen deprived. <br />Set twelve years after Dune, Paul Atreides is now Emperor of the galaxy after legions of Fremen troops have conducted a holy jihad in his name. Even though his rule extends over many lightyears, we are still claustrophobically stuck on Arrakis with much the same power struggles. As in Dune, he who controls the spice also brings much danger to themselves because it is so important that others would kill to control it. A conspiracy composed of his greatest enemies arises to overthrow Paul. <br />This book is set up more as \\"literature\\" than science fiction, with there being very little plot but a lot of soul searching and characterization. Unfortunately for us, the characters are not interesting enough to warrant this treatment. The characters are uninteresting because they all seem to be locked into their destiny and can do nothing about it. There is no surpise. No spontaneity. That leads me to another fact. This book is missing an element of adventure. By that, I mean the physical type and also the mental. The jacket says this is the \\"pivotal novel\\" of the Dune series. Well, if it's pivotal, the house has collapsed.<br />This novel is more an epilogue to Dune than a novel in its own right. To me, it should've just been tacked onto the first book. The conspiracy goes on and on and on and everybody talks and talks and talks and nothing ever happens until maybe the last 50 pages or so... It's boring. It's dull. It frightens mefrom reading the next book... I don't know if I will go on with this series. It doesn't get one star simply because I've read some books worse than this. Not a lot, but some.	2002-07-30
US	47412112	R3BE0VEMHFVQE0	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	11	12	N	N	ONLY THE PERFECT NEED APPLY TO DIE	The Forever War by Joe Haldeman is a masterpiece as good or better as any work by masters such as Asimov, Heinlein, or Roger Zelazny. I was bowled over by the quality of this book. It has wit, pathos, satire, intelligence, statements about the horrors of war, and everything else you need to make the equivalent of a Shakespearean science fiction novel.<br />The book was first published in 1974 so that explains the not quite so futuristic setting of 1997 America. I think at the time Haldeman wanted to set his story in the future but not quite so far as to be removed from the society he wanted to critique or the experiences he wanted to communicate. <br />Space travel is common and flight between planets has become possible by using \\"collapsars\\", or what we would call black holes. As some scientists have speculated, these collapsars are not only tunnels to different points in space but also in time. An early exploratory mission is attacked by an alien ship with no provocation and so begins what becomes known as the \\"Forever War\\". <br />The military leaders of Earth decide that it would be a good idea to guard these access points, called \\"stargates\\" (possibly the source of the movie and tv show concepts?). So an elite force of the best Earth has to offer, in terms of combination of physical and mental abilities is drafted into the armed forces. One of these involuntary soldiers is William Mandella, a well drawn and completely realized character who serves as the narrator of the book. It follows his rise from a private in training to the rank of major and his role in the war. <br />The problem with passing through the stargates on military missions is that while the journey is instant to you, the passage of time could actually be thousands of years, which brings up some really poignant and emotional scenes in the novel. <br />The book is just bristling as a barely disguised allegory of the vietnam war at a time when it was still the biggest thing on most peoples minds. Don't get me wrong, you would only notice if you're looking for it. Some cultural leftovers from the time in which it was written is the prevalent use of marijuana by the soldiers and the rampant free love they engage in on downtime. The leaders of the military in this book are not portrayed in a very admiring light, mostly being of the shoot first, ask questions brand. You get the feeling that the rank and file soldiers would like to make some sort of overture of communication to the aliens but it never materialized. <br />As satire, this book is genius. Talk about anti-utopia. Some parts make the Matrix look like a nice place to live in. Earth begins to become a government brain wash center where at one point all humans are conditioned to be homosexual in order to control the population, for example. This book is almost Swiftian in its showing of human reason gone haywire. <br />This is a great work of fiction that I would recommend to anyone, regardless of what genres they like. I know I would probably get beat up for saying it, but this book is as good a representation of war as any \\"literary classic\\" such as Red Badge of Courage in showing the total dehumanization of killing. The character of William Mandella is a great character as good as anything Hemingway could come up with in his stories. I'm glad I found this work because there is so much drek in science fiction novels today. Read this book! <br />Oh yeah, one other thing I liked about the book is that the aliens are kept enigmatic and mysterious. I've read so many novels where the aliens are just like humans except that they happen to be from a different planet. It really cuts down on the fear of the unknown when authors do that. Also, I forgot to mention that there's plenty of action in the book that you will get swept up in, along with a love story. So if you were disappointed by Attack of the Clones, try this out.	2002-07-19
US	47412112	R1OWR2140W0BPX	0872863557	408213910	Entering Fire	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I CREATED A ...	Rikki Ducornet is probably one of the most overlooked novelists of the past 25 years. I think she is a very important writer just shy of being great. Like her previous novel, The Stain, Entering Fire is sexually charged and exhibits a sensuousness seen only in latin american writers like Marquez and Fuentes (except those two authors are boring). <br />Entering Fire, which begins in 1880's Paris, on the surface, is about an amatuer botanist named Lamprias de Bergerac, a descendant of the famous long nosed Cyrano. Not known to the average person is that Cyrano conducted alchemical experiments and composed what may be the first sci-fi story about a trip to the moon. Lamprias has inherited that quest for knowledge from him, even if it goes against the moral conventions of his day. A lover of women, stuck in a loveless marriage with the aptly named Virginie, he takes on many concubines in his travels, even having the nerve to bring home one such from China with ironic name of Dust. Lamp goes further by having a child by his mistress, named First Man. Most of the book focuses on Lamp's travels and the adventures that he has in the jungle which are quite fascinating. <br />Meanwhile, his son by Virginie, named Septimus, feels replaced by First Man, and begins to develop a xenophobia because of it. He feels inferior so he has to become a racist to make himself feel superior, with the encouragement of his mother, whose reasons are the same, feeling replaced by Dust. In the end he becomes a Nazi supporter during World War II and helps send his father's first love to the death camps of the Gestapo.  <br />Basically, you have two intertwining stories in the book, one of Lamprias, as he tries to discover a new Eden through physical and spiritual quests and willing to sacrifice his family to gain it. The other is that of his son's descent into madness and the love of his father which, once being rejected turns into a hatred of all those he sees as inferior. <br />Most of the novel is powerful and dissects the madness and obsessions that humans can get locked into. The parts with the son are especially frightening by showing how a person can brainwash themselves into devaluing human life. <br />Something that Ducornet has that so many of her high minded peers do not have is a sense of humor. This book could have been very apocalyptic but shining through everything that's going on is humor. For example, when Lamp recounts how he met Virginie, he says how impressed he was with her poetic speech and the deepness of her intellect. Unknown to him, she had simply memorized verses and thoughts from her school textbook and really didn't even know what she was talking about. She was just repeating them like a robot. He found out too late. Of course, just like comics have bad jokes, Ducornet doesn't always hit it. <br />I highly recommend this book. I believe that some day Ducornet will join the great writers of my time where she belongs. Until then, I guess she will be my little secret.	2002-07-14
US	47412112	R2BQUR7BR5A4AP	0156006200	130483186	The Crystal Frontier	Books	1	6	14	N	N	A ROLL OF THE EYES	Anytime you write a bunch of short stories and try to thread them together with a cameo of characters from previous stories you're going to get into trouble. Because that's what it ends up being. A bunch of short stories that is said to comprise a \\"novel\\". It's hard to remember who's who from one story to the next because you've only been exposed to the characters for a short glimpse. <br />\\"The Crystal Frontier\\" is an unimaginative attempt at metaphor concocted by Fuentes to symbolize the frontier between Mexico and the United States. That boundary is not only the physical presence of the Rio Grande River but also of the differences between cultures. <br />The character that threads the stories together is a powerful Mexican businessman named Leonardo Barroso whose main export to America is cheap labor. He is introduced in the first story, called \\"A Capital Girl\\" in which he sets up his bookish son to be married to a beautiful girl. He also sets her up to be his mistress. Like a demented Amelie, Leonardo has a direct or indirect impact on all the short stories that follow. I guess it has something in common with chaos theory, but instead of a butterfly causing a hurricane, here we have a money grubbing exploitive Enron type affecting lives that he knows nothing about. <br />A few of the earlier stories are interesting and good. \\"Pain\\" is about a doomed love affair between two medical students, one of which got a scholarship from Leonardo. \\"Spoils\\" was a great story about a famous food critic and chef who offers his philsophy of why America is obese. It is also in that story that the book starts to destroy itself for me. Fuentes starts coming in through his characters about how America stole half of Mexico and about how we are inferior to the europeans in culture. It is in this story that Americans begin to be stereotyped as ruthless buzzards that are eating off the flesh of Mexico. I won't get into a rant just yet. <br />The rest of the stories in the \\"novel\\" run the gamut from average to poor and some are just downright an affront to the intellegence of a brain dead squirrel and are unreadable. Two of the most awful are the short story the book was named for, \\"The Crystal Frontier\\"  and the last story in here, called \\"Rio Grande, Rio Bravo\\". \\"Frontier\\" is about a Mexican who is a complete failure in his hometown who is contracted to work in New York. His work is to clean the windows of an immense glass skycraper. While he is cleaning he notices a woman working, not knowing that she's there on a Saturday to get away from her domestic problems. There's this whole big moment where they basically fall in love just looking at each other straight out of a harlequin novel. It was just so cliched and awful. <br />For sheer Ed Wood sorriness \\"Rio Grande\\" takes the cake. All the characters in the earlier stories are brought together in an episode centering on an illegal crossing of Mexicans into Texas. Here we have the cliched white border guard who never goes out in the sun because he's afraid of tanning and showing the darkness inherit in his genes and who is sort of a closet Adolph Hitler. We have his subordinate, an American of Mexican descent, who is in a cliched scene where he confronts an illegal alien and is engrossed in a loving hug with him. Let's not forget the arrival of a Nazi skinhead motorcycle gang who proceed to slaughter the Mexicans right on cue. Oh boy. The horror. The horror. This book is so ludicrous it makes me sick. Oh, it is also interspersed with a Neruda-wannabe poem recounting Mexico's history.<br />I will soon be donating this book to my local library. Fuentes' prose is overblown and pompous. He tries so hard to be a poet but it can never be. It says on the back of the jacket that he is Mexico's greatest novelist. I weep for Mexico. I agree that America takes advantage of Mexico but Mexico also takes advantage of us. It's a cycle that has benefits and drawbacks but I think both countries ignore the problems. Sometimes I don't understand why Mexico has never been able to get its act together and why there even has to be the problems we have. Fuentes seems to place most if not all the responsibility on the US. He does place some blame on Mexico itself when he states that \\"whoever said Mexicans have the right to be well-governed?\\" <BR>Obviously he likes the politics in his country enough to be an ambassador to France for it. And I have a lot of suspicion for a man who \\"champions the poor\\" when he divides his time between Mexico City and London. It must be rough trying to get by on the little amount of money he makes.	2002-06-29
US	47412112	RSD6IAIPRO07X	038079439X	431533232	Expendable (League of Peoples, Bk. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	EXCUSE ME, BUT CAN I BORROW YOUR UGLY STICK?	It's been scientifically proven that attractive people have more advantages than unattractive people. By that, I mean more superficial advantages. I remember in a psychology class of mine that in a criminal trial, a jury is more likely to believe an attractive witness that an unattractive one. Good looking adolescents, male or female, are treated better by their peers than ones they find ugly. I'm sure everyone has seen an incident in their life where someone was treated a certain way simply because of their appearance, whether it was negative or positive. Whether we like it or not, we base a lot of our opinions simply on appearance. It just makes it easier to process the world around us. <br />James Alan Gardner takes this and runs with it. In the 25th century, death has become a rare occurence. This has to do with medical techonology and also the fact that murder is outlawed by a race of omnipotent beings called the League of Peoples. They can even sense the intent to murder. If you commit murder you are considered non-sentient and are sentenced to death yourself. I don't know if that quite makes sense? Anyway, death has become so rare that humans are reluctant to be put in dangerous situations such as being the first explorers to a new planet. <br />It is stumbled upon by the Admiralty (those in charge of space travel) that when people who are seen as outcasts die nobody cares. It's only when an attractive person dies that it's seen as traumatic. I forgot that humans are genetically altered to be perfect. So when babies are born that have physical defects they are considered automatic candidates for the Explorer Corps. Its members call themselves ECMs--Expendable Crew Members. <br />Explorers Festina Ramos and her partner Yarrun Derigha are ordered to escort an important dignitary named Admiral Chee to a planet called Melaquin. The higher ups think that an Admiral will be able to help them in their exploration. What's really going on is that no Explorer has touched down on Melaquin and returned. Within minutes of their arrival all communication is cut off and they are presumed dead. Rumor has it that the planet is merely a garbage heap where undesirables are sent to die. Admiral Chee happens to be one of those undesirables. <br />I really liked this book. It's really impressive and more so because it's the first novel by Gardner. The only thing that bugged me sometimes was the Beavis and Butthead attitude towards sex that surfaces in the book, especially in the beginning. The hyperspace field that surrounds spaceships is like a white comet so it is referred to as sperm. When a tunnel is formed for transportation and human beings shoot out of it, you can guess the verb used to describe it. It just struck me as very immature Henry Miller. Once he gets over these little obsessive crudities the author can write quite well. The system based on physical apperance resonates with our generation where young girls starve themselves to look like this months starved looking model on Vogue. We are a nation of idolaters. <br />Check this book out for a good swift read.	2002-06-25
US	47412112	R2I365D7N577R5	038531387X	40474853	Deliverance (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	UM, CAN YOU SPELL THE WORD CLASSIC?	I've always been intrigued by the movie version of Deliverance. No, not because it was the only good role that Burt Reynolds had in his career before he sunk into the depths of schlock. What always intrigued me about the movie was the hidden power of nature itself, and I mean Nature, with a capital \\"N\\". So here the power of the river lead me to the novel.<br />Deliverance is about 4 friends, all in their late 30's or thereabouts who all lead comfortable lives and for some reason have a spirtual itch they can't scratch. They know they are missing something but can't really put their fingers on it. The novel is told from the viewpoint of one of them, Ed, who is a successful part owner of a commercial art/photography company. He is so bored with his life and his wife and kids that he longs for deliverance from it. He wants a new life. His best friend, Lewis, offers him a chance to get away from it all by planning a 3 day canoe trip down a little traveled river. Their friends Drew and Bobby also come along. It takes a while for them to get to the actual reality of doing it and you wonder if they're all just going to back out of it, and they almost do. Their lives will be forever changed. Those that live, that is. <br />This was a great book. It really shows the rotten idealism of the weekend warrior, a plague which has only intensified in the past thirty years. Suburbanites figure they can load up their SUV's and go camping for the weekend and that's considered adventure. In Deliverance, we're in the real deal, survival of the fittest, life or death, pushed to the highest physical and mental extremes. If you're going to be full of pride and believe you can control nature, there's going to be trouble. One of the hillbillies in the novel speaks for the land when he says \\"what the hell you doing messing around with that river?\\". Of course the response is \\"It's there\\". <br />Deliverance is a classic classic novel. It gives us a return to the most primal human being and yetalso shows heroism and courage, and loyalty. Humans are shown in all their ugliness and beauty here.	2002-06-24
US	47412112	R2GWT54AMCL6JD	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	7	16	N	N	A MILLION CHARACTERS IN SEARCH OF A NOVEL	Last summer I spent part it reading a mammoth novel called Underworld, written by Don Delillo. When I had completed the 800 odd pages of it, I felt betrayed. After spending the better part of a month reading it, I felt numb, with no emotional connection to the book at all. It did nothing for me. History has repeated itself with David Copperfield this summer.<br />As character study, I have to admit that this book is a work of virtuosic genius. It follows the life of one David Copperfield from his earliest days to his eventual fame as a writer. This was Dickens' favorite work and I'm sure it had something to do with the great extent of its autobiographical content. All the characters work on the deepest psychological level.<br />As a novel, this book is rubbish. I haven't quite put my finger on why. I found it hard to get involved in it after the first 200 pages or so. It seems that when things begin to dull, Dickens just brings about the death of someone. To give David a hard life, his father dies before he is born. His mother remarries an ultra puritan who beats and does everything he can to make David miserable. His mother dies, leaving David at the mercy of his stepfather. Even a dog gets a death scene where she dies of a broken heart. Please.<br />I would figure that after reading 875 pages I would have a lot to say about it. I don't. I could care less about this book one way or the other. I feel as though it was written, like most of Dickens books, serially. So I figure Dickens got paid money for each installment he wrote, hence, the more chapters, the more money. So he fluffed it up. Hermann Melville once said that a shark is more dangerous than a whale, metaphorically meaning that an efficent focused novel was light years better that a wandering formless epic. I agree with him. Books like this bloated tome were meant to keep 19th century bourgeois busy by a fire. I'm not against long novels, it's just don't make long novels out of short ones. Dostoyevsky is agood example of an epic tale writer who also happens to be a genius. Thackeray is a greater writer who wrote much in the same fashion as Dickens but who actually communicated to me. Check out his Vanity Fair for a better Victorian novel. Even George Eliot, with all her faults, is a better read than Dickens. Or even better yet, try Balzac.<br />If you pick this book up, prepare to be disappointed.	2002-06-21
US	47412112	R248VYRDI674JA	0688119158	873795671	Break on Through: The Life and Death of Jim Morrison	Books	4	5	6	N	N	JIM HAS LEFT THE BUILDING	I have to admit that I was a latecomer to the Doors' music. I remember kidding my high school teacher \\"Oh God, you like the Doors!!!???\\" I just could never get past the keyboards because I hated the sound of organs. It wasn't until I saw the Doors movie by Oliver Stone that I was really turned on to their music. It wasn't just their music, it was Jim Morrison's search for meaning. While you can malign the movie all you want for its one dimensional portrayal of Jim as a moronic alcoholic, it did sorta provide a music video of his soul. <br />Not satisfied with the movie's version of truth, I soon tracked down No One Here Gets Out Alive and started reading it at an airport waiting for a flight. I really liked it but when I got to the end it was so ludicrous in that the authors purposely perpetuated the myth that Jim never actually died and that he faked his death. They encouraged that belief and it just totally destroyed the credibility of their work. That's about the time that Break on Through came out. <br />I see Break on Through as the best book written about Jim that I have read. It seems to be the only work that tries to be what is considered real biography and not just an overglorified picture book like Dark Star. It covers Jim's childhood, public school years and his college years, the rise of the Doors, and his death all in warm, human detail. A good biographer is not just a compiler of facts. He is an artist. Riordan and Prochinsky do a good job of showing us the deeper sides of Morrison. They also discuss in great detail that philosophies and influences that ruled and ultimately destroyed Jim's life: Romanticism, Surrealism, Blake, Rimbaud, Nietzche, Booze. <br />Just like the movie, the other 3 Doors are underrepresented here, becoming merely horatio like characters who can merely look on as Jim lives out his brief but fiery candle. If you want their side of it, check out Ray Manzarek's and also John Densmore's own autobiographies on the subject. Another good place to get the Doors story is the Doors: A Celebration DVD which includes almost 3 hours of commentary by the surviving Doors.<br />I loved the earlier parts of the book before The Doors hit it big. You get the sense that Jim would have made a good scholar and a great long lived artist but he made the mistake of thinking that you have to live out your ideals. Yes, it's romantic to believe that you have to burn out rather than fade away but how can you create if you're DEAD. His college days are particularly interesting, knowing what he did to pass the time and what he read. You got the sense before they hit it, that everything seemed new to Jim but once he was a star it was just the same old same old. Different cities, same act. The latter half of the book reflects this and becomes less interesting. <BR>Not that it's boring, just that by that time you could see the tragedy coming. <br />All in all, I think this is the best biography of Morrison produced so far. Read Noone Here Gets Out Alive too but read that with a grain of salt. Break on Through is miles above it.	2002-06-10
US	47412112	R2DLPJ8KDALHV	0449006158	868561953	The Night Inspector (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	AT LAST, FINALLY A GENIUS	I am in total awe of this book, and that's a lot coming from a skeptical person like me. I was totally blown away by the grace and artistry of Frederick Busch. I am now going about getting all of his other work. <br />The Night Inspector is a historical novel in the sense that it is set in 1868 New York. It is above and beyond history in that it portrays psychic wounds more common to our century. Its main character, William Bartholomew, is an ex-sniper for the Union army whose face was destroyed in battle. He wears a pasteboard mask similar to that worn by Tom Cruise in the movie Vanilla Sky. It makes it more disturbing that facial features are painted on its surface, thereby accentuating their very absence. He is a man shattered by war who is desperately trying to rebuild his life by becoming successful in business. <br />He becomes buddies with Hermann Melville, yes, the once famous author of Moby Dick, who now spends his life as a customs inspector. The scenes with him are very poignant because its painful to see one of our great writers relegated to being a beaten down bureaucrat. You can sense that Melville just wants to leave his family, that he wants to destroy the fake simulation of life that he exists in... <br />The beauty of the book lies not in its plot but in the beauty of its emotion. I could really see in my mind everything as it happened. That doesn't happen to me very often. The book also takes up the issue of civil rights and the horrors that were committed against blacks in that age. Some of the degradations in the book will fill you with disgust. Also very effective are the scenes in which Batholomew flashbacks to sniper missions. There is something very disturbing in a man that kills for a living and that can totally dismiss mercy from his mind. They are done in such a way that you feel you are there. <br />The language is great and the writing is impeccable. I felt like I was in the company of a master. Busch is a good writer. Please check himout.	2002-05-16
US	47412112	R23R3524WY5CJT	0192836560	164999662	Vathek (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	26	31	N	N	HOW COME YOU DO SO MUCH WRONG VATHEK?	Vathek is another work in an endless series with the Faust myth as its backbone. Except here, instead of being set in Germany, the setting is the ancient middle east in which genies and devils inhabit the land.<br />Vathek is a caliph who is loved but also feared by his people. In fact, if he really loses his temper, just the sight of his gaze can cause death. His court makes The Satyricon look like a sunday school with its voluptuousness and excess. There are even five wings of his palace, with each one dedicated to a sense with names such as \\"The Delight of the Eyes\\" and \\"The Palace of Perfumes\\". Oh, the decadence! Of course someone as attached to physical gratification as Vathek is sure to stomp on the moral and religious boundaries of Allah and get in trouble.<br />Much like God and Yahweh in the Book of Job, Allah allows Vathek to be tempted and tried by demons as a bizarre test of his faith. Actually, maybe in both cases it was a test of God's faith in man. The faith that man will do the right thing in the end. That he will turn away from evil. That he will have an epiphany which will redeem him. Vathek isn't so lucky.<br />An evil being in the disguise of a man, called the Gaiour, comes to Vathek's court with all sorts of magical artifacts which seem to give their bearer otherworldy powers. Vathek becomes entranced by the thought of having powers over spirits and other men and begins to follow a direct line to eternal hell. In order to court evil spirits, Vathek becomes a mass murderer, a blasphemer, a betrayer, a killer of his own people. He is helped in this by his mother, Carathis, who hasn't even heard the word goodness. She constructs a tower much like the Tower of Babel, in order to reach to the gods and to serve as storage for her arcane items.<br />The book, much like Dante's Inferno, becomes a little much at times. I mean, how many deeds of evil can we experience before we go, \\"ok, he's going to Hell now!\\" Sometimes you sense that some of this is intentional and tongue in cheek. At other times, you're horrified at the evil that most of the characters do. Any characters that are good are trampled upon by the evil. The last couple of pages are truly disturbing. I liked this book and would recommend it to anyone that keeps an open mind about fantasy or who is interested in the question of how much knowledge is too much knowledge.intentional and tongue in cheek. At other times, you're horrified at the evil that most of the characters do. Any characters that are good are trampled upon by the evil. The last couple of pages are truly disturbing. I liked this book and would recommend it to anyone that keeps an open mind about fantasy or who is interested in the question of how much knowledge is too much knowledge.	2002-04-30
US	47412112	R26XB0LHPAM086	0671737783	81355047	Mediterranean Caper	Books	3	2	4	N	N	MOVE OVER HE-MAN!	Dirk Pitt is a man's man. He is the ultimate machismo. He was the Hollywood action hero before there was such a thing. Pitt is the man described in the theme song for the James Bond film &quot;Thunderball&quot;. The type of hero that he is has been outdated, whether wrongly or not, in our more politically correct times. It's wrong to rescue a damsel in distress now. It's wrong to be ruthless when it comes to the feelings of others. Ours is an age when we tell the truth on one hand and gently coo &quot;I'm sorry for telling the truth&quot; with the other. Pitt is a throwback to old style pulp fiction heroes and I don't see anything wrong with that.<br />The Mediterranean Caper is the first published novel starring Dirk Pitt. It opens with an attack on Brady Air Force Base, which is located on the Greek island of Thasos. Without warning a German bi-plane identical to those used in World War I strafes the airfield, causing much damage to the facility and its aircraft. By coencidence, Dirk Pitt and his best friend, Al Giordino are flying to the base and are able to win an air battle against the attacker. The wounded bi-plane manages to fly away and disappears into thin air and so begins the mystery. <br />Dirk Pitt is the Special Projects Director for the US National Underwater and Marine Agency (NUMA). What that really means is that he is a troubleshooter. When things are going wrong he is sent in to solve the problem. In this book he has been called in to investigate the sabotaging of a NUMA research ship called The First Attempt. The ship's mission is to locate and capture a fish that is considered a living fossil. Someone does not want this to happen and is sabotaging the ship's equipment. Dirk just happens to fly in as the seemingly unrelated plane attack on the base is going on. <br />Shortly afterward, as he is lying on the beach, relaxing after all the excitement, he meets a beautiful woman named Teri. This sets up one of the more comical scenes that almost mademe put down this book. As the woman warms up to Dirk she begins to reveal a little of her past. She has been in mourning for her dead husband for the better part of a decade. She starts to break down and cry. Dirk becomes so enraged by this that he slaps her across the face. I mean, he's only known for her about five minutes and he's slapping her across the face for showing weakness. Of course, instead of her running away, they make passionate love right there on the beach. <br />It turns out that the girl's uncle is a German war veteran who basically runs the island through his business influence. Dirk is invited to dinner and the adventure really begins when he tries to ascertain whether the uncle is tied to the attack on the Air Force base. Dirk is promptly thrown into a labyrinth below his villa in pitch black dark with a ravenous dog tracking him through its depths. Will he survive to find out what the Mediterranean Caper is all about? Well, of course, there's 13 other Dirk Pitt novels. It's the getting there that's the point. <br />Parts of the novel made me roll my eyes. Especially the slapping making love scene. Pitt tells her that her sadness is as worn out as an overcoat. There's really some cheesy metaphors and similes through the whole book. I really started to enjoy it as I realized that basically I was reading a comic book in novel form. I mean, the characters and the book were written for fun and adventure, not to spark epiphanies. The action scenes are really good and draw you in. The character depth is about that of a Dirty Harry movie, that is, practically nonexistent. At times Pitt seems very intelligent, at others very stupid. All in all, this was a fun book and I would recommend it. Hopefully, the second novel will be better.	2002-03-24
US	47412112	REEU89SN2M2W8	0802135412	119454509	Briar Rose	Books	4	24	25	N	N	POOR LITTLE PRINCE IN A BRIAR PATCH WITH NO PADDLE	Robert Coover is one of the pioneering post-modernists that started working in the 60's and shows no signs of stopping...The three main characters of the piece are the princess, known as Rose, the rescuing prince, and the wicked fairy who cast the spell on her.<br />Instead of an innocent princess, we have one who dreams of being violated sexually by her prince before he gives her a kiss to wake her. She is aroused by this. The only world she inhabits is that of her dreams. In her moments of existentialist thought she questions why she has to be the princess. Why is she made to suffer? What did she do wrong to be enchanted into an eternal sleep?<br />The prince at first appears to be the stereotype we all know. He is handsome, brave, and whose sole reason for living is to do good. He is flawed, though, by his own over-confidence. Most of the book he is cutting through briars. Even he is not really interested in Rose. He is simply fulfilling his mythic job. Namely, rescuing virgin maidens. He has a problem with his fate too. He lives for the quest and recognizes that once the quest is over the aftermath becomes too mundane. If he rescues the princess, he will have to marry her and settle down. There is no mystery or wonder in day to day life and so he almost dreads getting to the castle to wake her.<br />As with most post-modern thought the fairy exhibits both good and evil sides, almost a two-face type character. She feels on one side a joy in the princess' suffering but on the other hand she feels she rescued her from an otherwise humdrum existence. At least while she is enchanted she will not know death or pain. Unfortunately, the fairy has to supply the dreams of Rose and most of them are about horrible tales that happened to sleeping princesses.<br />I liked this book a lot. You feel as though all the characters are fighting against their archetypal nature. They are all struggling against their fate and this is heroic. It is more than a questioning of existence. This book is about the QUEST for existence. What does it mean to fulfill your destiny? Is there anything after that? Are your dreams stronger than reality? I would recommend this book to first-time Coover readers because it is short and more accessible than some of his other work. Besides, the language is beautiful.ce. This book is about the QUEST for existence. What does it mean to fulfill your destiny? Is there anything after that? Are your dreams stronger than reality? I would recommend this book to first-time Coover readers because it is short and more accessible than some of his other work. Besides, the language is beautiful.	2002-03-13
US	47412112	R37ILUGL41IU5C	0872862348	680078395	In a Shallow Grave	Books	4	20	22	N	N	TWO STEPS PAST THE TWILIGHT ZONE	James Purdy is the best kept secret of American literature. Most people I know have never even heard of him. After reading two of his works I have come to the understanding that he is very special and unique. There is something vaguely Russian about him, I mean in the depth of his work that reminds me of Dostoyevsky or Tolstoy. To me, much as the Beatles cranked out classic song after song lasting rougly 2 minutes, so Purdy puts out short books that nevertheless contain all the power of a 600 page epic poem.<br />IN A SHALLOW GRAVE is the story of Garnet Montrose, a WWII vet who was horribly disfigured in an explosion while serving as a soldier. Most of his friends were killed so he suffers the usual guilt complex over why he survived and others did not. His ugliness alienates him to such an extent that he is hardly able to find a nurse to help him with his medical concerns at his home. It's a pretty horrible comment on society that noone wants to look him in the face.  Even those that act like they can handle it seem to lose their nerve and run away. It really reminded me a lot of Frankenstein of all things. Here again is the plot of the deformed man with a heart of gold searching for a friend to open his heart to. <br />At this point we are introduced to Quintus Pearch, a young black boy whose mother is dying but still feels some bond with Garnet. You almost feel as though it's some weird form of vestigial slavery that calls to him and makes him stay with Garnet. <br />The primary duty of all his hired boys is to deliver letters from Garnet to Widow Rance, a childhood sweetheart. He writes her letter after letter filled with love but never has the nerve to call on her in person. He feels too ashamed of his looks. <br />Enter the character of Daventry, a fugitive from the law seeking a place to rest. He is hired and the rest of the book is mostly about the relationship between the three men. We come to find there are all kinds of love, both carnal and godly. That'swhat I found so amazing about the book. There is a lot of spirituality lurking under the surface of it. <br />Purdy writes his books in such a way that it seems like a story told you in your dreams. At times this novel seems surreal, at others transcendant, and sometimes realistic. Purdy's grasp of dialogue is one of the best I have ever read. Read a book by Purdy. You won't regret it.	2002-03-05
US	47412112	R31250RDP3GTS	0380731800	701049138	Sky Coyote (A Novel of the Company, Book 2)	Books	1	4	11	N	N	I SHALL DUB THEE AWFUL	I have been seeking words to sum up this book and I have revolved around one but it would be normal and banal to say it, but there is no other word that would do this book justice. This book is just plain stupid. It is a horrific pandora's box that should never be opened. It is a cancer for the eye and the mind. I have reasons why I think this and I will lay these out to you, the jury.<br />I enjoyed the first book of this series, In the Garden of Iden, even though it slipped into Harlequin babble here and there. I forgave its first novel blues. The characterization was strong and the historical detail was good. You really got the sense of the time period and the mindset of the people that moved in it. I thought Kage Baker would only get better with the second novel. Boy, was I wrong. Sky Coyote is an awful book in which she not only takes two steps backwards, she reverts to crawling. <br />The plot of Sky Coyote takes place a century later than the first book. The main character from the last book has been chilling in New World One, the south american base of the Company, which is basically an immortal version of Fellini's Satyricon in which its inhabitants are served by mortal slaves and their activity consists of eating, drinking, tennis, and dancing. They seem to be a bunch of lotus eaters more concerned with fashion than doing their life work.<br />Mendoza is not the main character of this novel. Baker has chosen to give Facilitator Joseph, Mendoza's mentor from Iden, the main spotlight here. Unlike the first novel, Joseph here seems to act like a bubbleheaded girl sometimes. I almost forgot to continue to give you the plot. It seems that a tribe of Indians in California will become totally extinct due to disease and the encroachment of the Spanish unless the Company interferes. So Joseph is sent to prepare the way for repatriation (isn't this just the same thing as moving them to a reservation?) Supposedly, the tribe will be safeguarded from their fate by theCompany. In the end this consists of doing gruntwork for the immortals. A form of slave labor. <br />The title of the work stems from the fact that Joseph must undergo cosmetic surgery to play the role of Sky Coyote, a Prometheus like God of the Indians. This means that he has wolf ears, snout, and modified hands which are more like paws. He even has a scene where he tests his body and describes himself as \\"perky\\" and \\"bouncy\\" and he likes to \\"trot trot trot\\". The word Froo Froo and fluffy comes to my mind. Some of the scenes are just precious. I mean that in the most sarcastic way. <br />The portrayal of the Indians is so idiotic. They talk like valley girls. \\"Oh, like for real\\", \\"Oh, for sure\\" are some of the common phrases that they use. They are organized like 20th century white people. They argue about supply and demand, exporting and importing, money, unionizing industry, capitalism, and so on. It's just so stupid.  The attempt at satirizing modern society is moronic. This author is not in the league of really going after the soul of 21st century America. There is no depth in the writing. There is nothing underneath it. Baker doesn't have the wit or intellect to pull off what she attempted here. Look to Pahliniuk or Auster or films such as Ghost World or American Beauty to get critiques of society. Baker needs to stay with what she's good at. Froo Froo. I will never read her again. It will take me a few months to rid myself of the awful stench of this book. This novel is everything that is wrong with science fiction. Awful. Good night.<br />I cannot end this review without the real capper of the book. I mean the incident that really just sealed the horribleness of the novel. As the tribe gets ready to leave their home, they are understandably nervous about what their future will be like. In an effort to assuage their fears Joseph shows them roadrunner and Wile E. Coyote cartoons and all their fears dissipate. Their is this long soul searching passage where Joseph compares himself to different Warner Brothers cartoon characters such as Elmer Fudd and Yosimite Sam. While not quite on the par with Shakespeare's \\"to be or not to be\\", that passage has changed my life. You could start a whole other craze similar to The Prayer of Jabez if you could get someone to analyze that passage and comment on it and place it in Walmarts across the country. Oh, the humanity!	2002-02-22
US	47412112	R1XXNEFDRYCE3D	0374507848	119615479	Peter Camenzind: A Novel	Books	3	3	5	N	N	THE FARTHER ONE TRAVELS, THE LESS ONE KNOWS	I was having a hard time trying to decide which novel of Hesse I would use to introduce myself to his work. By and by I came to the idea that i should start at the beginning with his first novel. So I opened up Peter Camenzind, his first work published in 1906. While it smells a bit of first time novel immaturity, it more than makes up for this in reading the first rumblings of his beautiful style.<br />As anyone versed in Eastern religion as Hermann Hesse was, you gradually come to learn that sometimes knowledge comes to you only when you do not seek it. This is the case with Peter Camenzind, a young Swiss goatherd who comes to age in what he sees as the stifling atmosphere of his village, Nimikon. Peter spends most of his time avoiding work and climbing mountains. Gazing down at his village, he feels hemmed in. Only when he gazes at the horizon, at all the lands beyond his, does the stirring of his heart begin. He longs to see distant lands. He feels &quot;something quivering within me, like a compass striving with great energy, unconsciously, toward those great distances&quot;.<br />His life would probably have been uneventful except a priest takes notice of him and Peter is given an education. He begins to learn that more knowledge just brings more sadness. The rest of his life is spent trying to reach the unattainable, or to put it better, God. He seeks Him through all different types of routes. He tries to find Him in the love of women, through writing poetry, and through friendship. <br />It is in his relationships that his story becomes the most poignant. He is searching for the spirit that moves in all things and hopes to discover this through love. But just as in work, he never seems to make the effort when he needs to. He falls in love with a woman and never gets around to telling her. By the time he does she is married or fixing to be. Hesse's message seems to be at odds with Peter because the whole knowledge coming to you theme is really Peter's undoing. He never seizes the moment. <br />To me, this novel is a tragedy, not the spiritual affirmation that I hear Hesse's novels are. On the back cover it says that Camenzind finds inner peace. He doesn't. He may be a little wiser but he is no happier. This book is one of loneliness. It seems almost the equivalent of a strong drink.	2002-02-10
US	47412112	RXA1PAGYW253J	0345443004	666958502	The Approaching Storm (Star Wars)	Books	2	6	6	N	N	IN A GALAXY FAR FAR  AWAY FROM THE MOVIES	I have to admit right off the bat that I am not an avid reader of Star Wars books. I have read the novelizations of the movies simply to add to their enjoyment but that's about it. I just really have trouble seeing the legitimacy of them when George Lucas can just turn around and say they're irrelevant or never happened. I have picked up one here and there but I have almost always been disappointed. But this novel was different. It had the name of Alan Dean Foster on it, the author of the original two Star Wars books. So I started reading it with a little more affection and hope. I was disappointed.<br />The story concerns the world of Ansion, which, much like Naboo in Episode I, is split into two segregated sections. You have the cosmopolitan city dwellers and the more primitive nomads that roam the plains. The cities want to secede from the Republic to escape its endless red tape and regulations, which they see as inhibiting business. The nomads are more loyal and wish to stay in it. There is much suspicion between the two groups and in the chaos there just happens to be dark forces that wish to take advantage of it. <br />There is a conspiracy on Coruscant to exacerbate the situation on Ansion which would drive them to secession. The problem that confronts the Jedi and the Republic is that if Ansion secedes, their allies will follow, and then their allies and so on. The planet is the crossing point for numerous secret alliances which are interconnected in a giant spider web. Obi-Wan, Anakin, and another Jedi and Padawan are sent to negotiate between the two parties and convince them to stay in the Republic. <br />The problem that I noticed in Rogue Planet and other novels also crops up here. Namely, the fact that the author seems to hold himself back in characterization and plot to prevent himself from stepping on the toes of the movies. You can't get too surpising or unexpected with the characters. You cannot reveal too much about them because only George Lucasknows about them, and he just makes it up as he goes along. So the best thing is to get away as much as possible from the settings of the movies. No great battles, no character evolving experiences. It's more like \\"I'm going to write about this, but I'm not going to rock the boat.\\" <br />Something that I did not like about the book was that lots of times the jedi seem incompetent. There is one part where the Character of Barris Offee, a padawan, is held captive just by tying here up and putting a bag over her head and she is blinded. Now excuse me if I'm wrong but Jedi are supposed to be able to operate without their senses. This comes up again and again. In another part when Anakin is confronted by wild beasts on the plains, his lightsaber is knocked from his hand. The Chosen One doesn't even have enough power over the force to call his lightsaber to his hand. I know even a padawan would be able to do this. Luke did it with no training. <br />I really liked the other Jedi accompanying Obi-Wan who goes by the name of Luminara. She is much more exotic and emotional than Obi-Wan. Maybe, more powerful. One of the failings of Episode I is that the Jedi WERE always under control. It was like making a Star Trek movie with all the lead characters as Vulcans, speaking in monotones and never making mistakes. Maybe it foreshadows the Jedi's demise, that they're so unworried. Lucas really needs to go about humanizing them. It almost makes me root for the Empire. Of course all this Repulic Senate Empire stuff is from Roman history. When a city state becomes too large, bureaucrats cannot control it. Something as egotistical as an Empire needs a dictator so the bloated city statenaturally becomes an Empire. Maybe the universe was better off with the Emperor. It was corrupt anyway. When Palpatine seized power it just made it official. A side note in the book is that all the Jedi at some point, question what they are doing and whether they are serving a function of a corrupt system. Noone seems to come up with an alternative to it. Or maybe Anakin has.<br />There are shadows of Anakin's turn to the darkside but he is relegated to be a supporting character. Most of the interesting aspects of the novel are in situations or characters which have no direct bearing on Attack of the Clones. While this is a diversionary prologue to that movie, I would hardly classify it as \\"exciting\\". For the most part it straddled the line of being just not boring enough to quit reading.	2002-02-06
US	47412112	RNBQDBKPB77D1	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	AND A WEIRDO SHALL LEAD THEM	Reading Survivor I couldn't help being reminded of Renaissance era writers and thinkers. Their minds were always aware of their own mortality, witness the presence of a skull in a lot of the art of the period. Youth was seen as fleeting and to be enjoyed while it lasted because it would never come again. In our time, thanks to plastic surgery and the illusion of the media, one can become immortal, whether they deserve it or not. Chuck is of the former era. He sees past all the illusion of modern life and chronicles it with not only Swiftian satire but also with great sensitivity and beauty. I know that must sound like a paradox. <br />In the character Tender Branson, Palahniuk gives us not a hero for our times, but an everyman. I know, not everyone has grown up in a Branch Davidian type religious cult. Or haven't we? What is television? And what are the movie stars but our ever present angels that we wish we could be?<br />Back to the book. It starts backwards with the pages descending from 289 to page 1. Because in essence it is being told that way. Branson has hijacked a plane, and right here let me say that he tells us he is not a muderer. All the passengers were let off the plane beforehand. His plan is to crash into the aboriginal wastes of Australia. While he still has fuel left, he begins to recount how he came to be on the plane, namely, his life story to be preserved by the flight recorder. <br />Tender grew up as a member of The Creedish Death Cult. As one of its tenents, it requires that at a certain age its members go into the world to take up the most menial, meaningless jobs. What is better than to serve mankind in its most basic needs. He becomes the housekeeper of a faceless rich couple. They are so ghostlike that he never sees them. He only communicates with them over the phone. To Branson, life is so hollow. This is symbolized by the fact that to fulfill his role as gardener he plants the yard with fake flowers he steals from mausoleums. And noonenotices the difference. <br />With a stroke of luck (or is it?) his life changes. Someone calling a crisis hotline rings him by mistake and Branson gets the idea that he likes having the power of life and death over his callers and advertises his own hotline. Of course, he tells his callers to commit suicide based on what mood he is in. When he meets up with Fertility Hollis, the sister of one of his victims who just happens to have the gift of prophecy, his life begins to evolve beyond his control. And besides, someone is stalking ex-Creedish cult members and murdering them, further complicating his life.<br />I loved this book. One of the hype quotes from Bret Easton Ellis says with Chuck \\"our generation has found its Don DeLillo\\". I have to correct that because Palahniuk is his own writer. And a greater writer than DeLillo whose Underworld almost made me have a seizure because of boredom. Chuck is the best speaker for our times that I know about. America has lost the ability to know what truth is because we are surrounded by so much illusion. This author is one of the very few who is not afraid to go against political correctness and to illustrate the spiritual unhinging of our country. That's not to say that he is mordant or depressing. What you feel in this work is a sense of loneliness but at the same time, hope. In some ways Palahniuk reminds me of the zen wandering for comfort and love that Jack Kerouac exhibited at moments. Chuck is better than him also. I look forward to his evolution into a great writer.	2002-02-03
US	47412112	R3QH0UAKLU6EU4	0679722645	951875669	The Maltese Falcon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	SPADE, SAM SPADE	The Maltese Falcon with Bogart in it is one of those films that is so archetypal that, without ever having seen the whole thing through, I still have vivid images in my mind of it. So I had certain biases and expectations picking up Hammett's novel. It took me a bit before I could get into the style of it. It was more than style, it was mindset. The San Francisco that the characters inhabit is harsh and unforgiving. When a certain Miss Wonderly shows up at Spade's office, desperate for help, Sam and his partner are more worried about sizing her up sexually than in helping a damsel in distress. <br />She tells them a story about the disappearance of her sister and her suspected kidnapping by a man named Floyd Thursby. She convinces them to follow him and to find her sister, if she is alive. Sam's partner is killed soon after and the plot of the novel becomes more intricate and turning. The best word for it would be multi-layered. Identities are dropped and assumed constantly. <br />Good and evil have no place in this novel. This is what gave me so much trouble in the beginning. Spade's own secretary calls him \\"the most contemptible man God ever made\\" when he sets his mind to it. This is true. Hammett creates in Spade a man as cold-blooded and calculating as the criminals he fights against. Actually, he's probably worse. Spade at times seems demonic. He is compared to \\"a blond Satan\\" a couple of times and the yellowish color of his pupils also adds to this conception. His smiles are empty and his face is composed of V's. He looks out only for himself and you sense that he would backstab and betray his best friend. Besides this, he makes a great hero.<br />Once you accept the laws of this pulp fiction world, the novel becomes very enjoyable. One of the things that bothered me is that the characters have no inner life, or at least in the text. The only things you know about them are visual cues. The narrator is outside of them. While this works well for a screenplay (which at times this novel seems like), it is very hard to pull that off in a novel. Hammett does, though. Like I said, you have to accept what the author gives you, unconditionally. <br />I highly recommend this work even though it took some adjustment in the reading. It is a classic. A contemporary writer that you should check out if you like Hammett is James Ellroy.	2002-01-22
US	47412112	R3ID04UM38U3K1	0380731797	328763020	In the Garden of Iden (A Novel of the Company, Book 1)	Books	3	17	17	N	N	A TIME OF PRIDE AND PREJUDICE	Before I picked up this book I had pretty much been down on my luck when it came to reading a decent sci-fi novel. Like any genre, most of the books are not written well and it's sometimes hard to find the few authors that are good. I finally hit the jackpot with Kage Baker and boy, was I relieved. <br />In the 24th century a company known as Dr. Zeus has discovered not only the means to time travel but also the secret of immortality. Whether it was right to do so or no, it used its time travel capibility to effect events in the past so that in the 24th century, the company rules the world. There were some scientists that had signed on to the venture with the understanding that time travel would be used to help mankind. In an effort to do this the business types at Dr. Zeus go back to different time periods and create immortal agents from humans of the time. The mission of these agents is to save valuable cultural artifacts that would otherwise be lost forever. <br />Flash backward to 1500's Spain in the height of the Spanish Inquisition. A nameless child of an impoverished mother is imprisoned wrongfully and is set to be tortured. An agent shows up offering her freedom. She takes it. She becomes known as Mendoza and enters the process of becoming immortal. The agents are in actuality cyborgs who are stronger and faster than a human. I thought it was really cool that while the world goes about its business there is a secret society of immortals carrying on their business in underground facilities, or in remote areas. Their business being to preserve some of man's and nature's lost treasures.<br />Mendoza is sent to England and the Garden of Sir Walter Iden who is famous for having the most extensive samples of flora in the world. Her mission: to catalog and preserve extinct plant forms for the Company. She also falls in love with a mortal and thus begins the real meat of the novel.<br />To me, reading the synopsis on the back of the book, I thought it would be boring. But as I began to read it reminded me of another writer whose plots sound boring but when read are real treasures. I was reminded of Jane Austen. This book is really well written, especially the historical detail and feel. Baker was a teacher of Elizabethan English so I don't think it was much of a stretch to write about this time. Which is ok. An author's first work is usually written in a comfort zone. Not a lot really happened in this book. It is more a character driven story in which the interest is kept by the interaction of different personalities. The only complaint I have is that the love story sometimes, but not often, gets fluffy. The rules for effecting the past seem a little sketchy too. Overall, though, the idea of the book is fascinating and the prose style is interesting. It was nice to see a sci-fi novel with living breathing characters and an author who is well on the way to mastering her voice. I look forward to the second book in the series, Sky Coyote.	2002-01-20
US	47412112	RX1ACAZPL9FTS	078670697X	722586933	Master Georgie	Books	2	3	5	N	N	ODE TO THE CRIMEA	The back cover of this book praises Beryl Bainbridge for her &quot;deadpan prose&quot; and her &quot;emotionless sentences&quot;. It's ironic how attibutes like these can possibly be descriptions of a good writer. It is these very faults that bring about the ruin of MASTER GEORGIE. <br />The novel spans the years 1846-1854. Master Georgie, or George Hardy,  is the young son of a rich Liverpool merchant. He is a shadow figure in the sense that he never takes over the narration of the story. That is left up to three other characters. One of these is Myrtle, an orphan who was taken in by the Hardys as a child and is deeply in love with George. She follows him in his restless wanderings of Liverpool. One night, in a sordid episode they find George's father dead in the bed of a prostitute. Along with another character who does narration, Pompey Jones (a street hustler), they are able to cover up the scandal that would have hurt and tarnished his family. The three characters are bonded by this secret for the rest of their lives, and as the novel progresses this deepens into love, both sexual and spiritually. It becomes a love triangle which causes a lot of pain and little satisfaction. The last voice that enters into the picture is  the eccentric Dr. Potter who has a hankering for George's sister. Nobody likes the guy because instead of confronting life, he dwells instead in books, mainly the classical writers of Rome and Greece. When you start a conversation with him, he begins quoting from an author instead of communicating sense to you. Towards the latter part of the book, all the characters become involved in the Crimean War. Or actually George becomes involved in the war and wherever he is it sucks the others with him. Just like all wars, this one changes the future of not just the combatants but also of the bystanders. <br />The parts of the book set in Liverpool are quite good and interesting. They seem to be written with more passion and personal knowledge than the war scenes. The books problem lies in the deadpan writing. It's like watching the stand up comedy of Steven Wright, where a monotone voice is supposed to make you laugh by its very absence of emotion. It's the same thing here. We are supposed to feel horror and love through understatement when neither of these emotions are capable of understatement. The closer I got to the end, the more bored I got. I skipped over some pages to get to the end. I didn't care about the character's fates. I just wanted to say i finished it.	2002-01-09
US	47412112	R30TR5M513US0J	0192838717	486185455	The Red and the Black: A Chronicle of the Nineteenth Century (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	WHATEVER IT TAKES	Some things never change. In the world today we're used to hearing about corporate climbers who are willing to do anything to move up in the company. Sacrifice their wife or husband, time with their children, and sometimes even their soul. All in pursuit of the American Dream, a.k.a. materialistic eden. In THE RED AND THE BLACK Stendhal shows us that things weren't much different in 1830, when the book was published in France. Julien Sorel is a young man who was cursed with a scumbag, loveless father who has no interest in his family except in what they can do for him financially. After bargaining with the local mayor of his hick town, his father negotiates Julien to be the tutor of the prestigious house of Renal. One thinks of a slave auction as his father milks the mayor for all the money he can connive out of him in return for Julien's services. Of course Julien has bigger plans, after all, his idol is the great destroyer of the aristocracy, Napoleon. Julien glances over the fact that Napoleon set up his own aristocracy. Yes, Julien is a closet revolutionary who despises the very people he has to serve or suck up to. This brings up the largest idea of the book. Namely, that to get ahead in the world, you have to be a chameleon who changes shades according to what influential man or woman's favor you are trying to curry. Kissing butt is a polite way of phrasing it. While he is being bored by the Renal's children he falls into an affair with the mayor's wife. While this might have helped his career he unfortunately falls in love. He seems to start all of his plans of advancement pretty well, but in the end he always messes it up by actually having a conscience. By showing the superficialities of love, he falls in love. One of the most ironic points in the book is when he starts studying to be a priest when in actuality, he is an atheist. Even with this against him, he shows more morality and godliness than his colleagues at the seminary. Julien is feared no matterwhat circle he travels in, because who better to recognize his below level rebellion than the hypocrites of every level of society. This is ultimately the horrible conflict of Julien. At what point will he be unable to retain his identity? At what point does acting like a sellout make you a sellout even in your own heart? This book is divine. I am shocked that only 4 reviews have been written about it. It is hard to know what to make of it because it is so futuristic, looking more towards the 20th century than the 19th. There is none of the crippling sentimentalism of Dickens or Eliot here. He is more comparable to Thackeray or Balzac. This is a powerful book with flashes of erotic power which I am surprised made it through the censors of his time. It looks more towards Camus but Stendhal is ten times the artist. I highly recommend reading this and will soon move on to THE CHARTERHOUSE OF PARMA. Almost forgot, Catherine Slater does a great job translating this work from French to English.	2001-12-10
US	47412112	R3PMUPLLIMK9J8	0060931736	177553936	Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, The (Perennial Classics)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	ENTERTAINING BUT SLIGHT	Think of yourself as a 10 year old in the environment of a stagnated, uniformed, processed school for girls in the 1930's. The teaching is conservative and safe, so as not offend the sensibilities of the children or the parents. Into this steps Miss Jean Brodie, a teacher just entering into her 40's who discusses her love life, her vacations, her disagreements with the administration and the other teachers at her school. There isn't a lot of actual work you do in her class. This teacher is more interested in teaching you about obscure knowledge or about subjects that have nothing to do with the course. In fact, she seems to want to discuss whatever happens to be her interest at the moment. There's not a lot of actual work in the class but she does take you to art galleries, operas, botanical gardens and the like. You would think she was a cool teacher, right? Then you have entered into the world of The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. <br />It's easy to picture Miss Brodie as similar to Plato and the other philsophers of Athens as they attracted young aristocrats into their circles and put radical ideas into their minds. The girls in her classes are much too young to hold their own intellectually against her so they become more like worshipping disciples to Brodie's take on life. Brodie would be in as much trouble in the present day as she would in the 1930's. For good or bad, education in the public sector is founded on conformity. Anyone rocking the boat at an educational institution is generally looked on with suspicion or even resentment. The fact that the other teachers could not form relationships with their students like Brodie did added to their conspiracy against her. <br />The Prime of Miss Brodie traces the relationship of one group of girls from the beginning of their contact, and through transitions to the future, the ultimate end of their relations.  You get the sense that Brodie believes herself a heroine to be emulated, a person who is superior to everyoneelse, a demi-god of education. The fact that facism is mentioned more than once is a clue to the book. It hints that she thinks of her girls as flunkies or lesser shadows of herself that only serve to reinforce the fantasy of her life. The fact that she refers to her 40's as her prime shows that she is afraid she is already past it. <br />I liked this book but I would call it &quot;slight&quot;. By that I mean there's not a lot going on in it. I just didn't want to call it shallow. I didn't feel challenged by it really. It didn't push any envelopes of thought or form. Ironically, the feel of the novel has all the tinges of a conservative mind that fits the novel into a nice little frame. This book would have no problem being taught at a conservative, stifled, and repressed school. I guess that means I'm rebelling against Dame Muriel Spark.	2001-08-12
US	47412112	R24ZL46PA7J4BA	0226043908	397311802	Yes (Phoenix Fiction)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	YES TO DARKNESS	This novel was my first exposure to Thomas Bernhard and I have to admit I was initially put off by its style. Some of the sentences went on for a page and half, using only commas as punctuation. After the first page or two I began to enjoy it. The plot is very simple. The narrator is a scientist who has retired to the Austrian countryside to conduct his research on antibodies. At first he believes that the isolation will benefit his studies but gradually, he works less and less, due to the great depression that comes over him. He begins to cut off all relations with the outside world, keeping only a token connection with his friend, Moritz. When he comes to recognize that his mind can only be stimulated by socializing with other people it is too late. He cannot free himself of his terrible loneliness. It's been so long since he has communicated with a human being he doesn't know where to start. All this changes when a Swiss engineer and a Persian woman show up at Moritz's house to buy a plot of land to build a home on. Talking with the woman, the narrator finds new life, but tragically, it will be shortlived.<br />This is a great novel. I have never seen the mindset of isolation and the depression that follows better portrayed. The style of the piece lends itself to a breathless reading. You don't notice that periods are scarce after a while. It has an exquisite flow to it. All the characters are nicely done. The translation is excellent. I really have nothing negative to say about it.	2001-08-10
US	47412112	R1O2O5AJQE6XIE	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	2	9	15	N	N	FILE UNDER DIDACTIC	Having read The Stranger a couple of weeks back, I came to this novel with high expectations. Or at least in the hope of equal quality with the earlier work. The narrator of the novel is an ex-lawyer. In fact, he was a great lawyer, who stood up for the oppressed whenever he could. He says his specialty was &quot;noble cases&quot;, by which he meant defending widows and orphans. He believes that he is a &quot;superman&quot; who is superior to other people. This superiority doesn't cause him to do evil to others. Ironically, it motivates him to do good. He seems to be a God, who through acts of goodness, gains the worship and respect of the community. By all rights, he is one of the greatest men of Paris. One night while he is meditating on his greatness he hears a disembodied laugh behind him. This is where the fall begins as though some Greek god was punishing him for his hubris. His world turns upside down and he becomes just as adept in committing evil as before he was at good. <br />I found half of the book good and the other half dull. Especially towards the end it becomes a didactic school lesson as the narrator tries to express his motivations. The character to me just isn't interesting enough to keep me focused on his 147 page sililoquy. The Stranger was a much more succesful work in that it illustrated ideas through characterization and plot. This novel could have been entititled a philosophical tract and that would have been appropriate. This is not one of his best works.	2001-08-10
US	47412112	R3HP68Z130XEN9	0679745653	548414614	Breakfast at Tiffany's and Three Stories	Books	5	13	18	N	N	WOW, WHAT A BOOK!	Breakfast at Tiffany's is a perfect novel. It should be studied by creative writing classes in order to observe the best ways to use humor, wit, tragedy, and freedom in their work. This is the story of Holly Golightly, a young 19 year old who is simply searching for a place that feels like home which she has never discovered. So she is always moving, always kinetically charged for the next big love affair, the next big happening in her life. Surrounded by men who fawn all over her, it is amazing to witness the kindness she exhibits to them. Capote does a marvelous job of showing that it is Holly who is being exploited in her relationships, even though her only income is from the men she picks up. She encounters a young writer named Fred who develops a platonic relationship with her and it is he who narrates the novel. She is looking for shelter and the only place she finds that is at Tiffany's. Something in the ambience of the place makes her feel secure and that nothing bad could happen. So she's always looking for that place. The novel is about her search. Along the way, the truth about her past is revealed and you admire her even more. She's probably one of the most memorable female characters I've ever encountered. The only complaint I have about it is that it was too short. At the end you feel like you were left hanging and that it should have continued.<br />Also in this edition there are 3 short stories and the quality of them decreases in the order of their inclusion. The first story, &quot;House of Flowers&quot;, is great. It's about a Port-au-Prince prostitute searching for true love and finding it. Don't worry, it's not Pretty Woman. This story carries a very dark humor involving voodoo and a haunting from beyond the grave. &quot;A Diamond Guitar&quot; is about a prison camp and the relationship between an old con and a new arrival who dreams only of escape.  &quot;A Christmas Memory&quot; is a boring and slight story involving childhood memories and is not even worth reading.<br />I loved this book. I cannot sing the praise of Breakfast enough. If you want a novel to be efficent, precise, funny, and beautiful, read this work.	2001-08-05
US	47412112	R2VMR3XXOUZTP	0679431071	933185835	Dancing After Hours: Stories	Books	4	12	14	N	N	THIS IS YOUR LIFE	After finishing this collection of stories I am asking myself just how good was it? The hype on the back of the book compares Dubus to Chekhov, Carver, and Flannery O'Connor. It might be that good. As you're reading the stories, most of which are about spiritual crises, or the equivalent, you begin to see the universality in these microcosms of life. The writer and the characters draw you into a quest for meaning and a struggle to reach into the past and change everything you regret. There are a couple of running characters in the stories who give a collection already united by theme the feel of a novel. Some of the best stories are &quot;Blessings&quot;, in which a woman tries to sort through her emotions of a fishing trip in which the boat sank. Her family had to fend off shark attacks until they were rescued. It's a great combination of remembrance and violence. Also, &quot;All the Time in the World&quot; in which a woman is desperately trying to find a husband, not just a lover. I could go on for a 1,000 words about the beauty of the prose of each story but I won't. Suffice it to say that when you read these stories you see yourself reflected back through them or, if not personally, through the experience of someone you know. Whether its the questioning of existence, an affair, the senselessness of corporate America, crime, adolescence, love, regret, or physical disability. Every person seems represented here, like some great Walt Whitman poem singing the unity of everything and everyone. There was only one story that I had trouble with and it involved a woman fighting off two thugs who followed her home to rob or rape her. The way the action was described it seemed like the screenplay for some bad japanese karate movie. And sometimes it seemed as though Dubus uses the setting of a story just as background. It doesnt really matter to the telling of the story but he spends paragraphs describing what's going on as the characters walk and talk for example. I understand that he was trying to show the indifference of the outside world to the internal problems of the characters but it got a little old. But these are minor complaints. Overall, it was a great collection, which settles my own question about how good it was.	2001-08-05
US	47412112	R11P9K32Y9SB79	0451522133	502877569	The Celestial Railroad and Other Stories (Signet classics)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	SKIP THE RAILROAD AND GET TO THE REAL STORIES	This is a nice pocket book edition of some of Nathaniel Hawthorne's greatest short stories. It's just the right size to carry around in your back pocket to read whenever you're stuck somewhere waiting for whatever it is.<br />Hawthorne, with his Puritan ancestry, was obsessed with the idea of sin and what human beings do to conceal them from the community at large. I guess, in a way, he was concerned with hypocrisy. Hawthorne believed in the Biblical saying that noone could cast the first stone against anyone else because we all have our secret sins. You can tell he has disgusted by the Puritan way of life because it allowed no confession and no reconciliation. Everything not up to their moral par, all their desire and passion, was pushed down into their subconscious where they rotted. Like William Blake says, &quot;Desire not acted upon, breeds a pestilance&quot;. The very act of suppressing desire makes it stronger.<br />In the story &quot;The Birthmark&quot; a woman named Georgiana is the most beautiful woman in the world, except for a birthmark on her cheek in the shape of a red hand. Her husband fixates on this harmless mark, believing it to be the symbol of all that is evil in the world. So he tries to destroy it with all his scientific knowledge and destroys her along with it.<br />In another story called &quot;Egotism&quot; a man is afflicted with a snake growing out of his bosom. It gives him the ability to see everyone's secret sins. &quot;The Minister's Black Veil&quot;, one of his most famous, concerns a community's obsession and ultimate horror of their village priest wearing a black veil. Why is he wearing it they ask? What horrible sin could he have committed to feel ashamed to show his face? All it is a thin veil of lace but all their evil comes out in the face of it. Ironically, the people that have awareness of the evil in themselves manifest physical symbols of them which themselves and others can see. Thereby excluding themselves from hypocrisy because their souls are on public display. &quot;Young Goodman Brown&quot; is also included here and is a nightmarish meeting with the Devil.<br />Some of the more haunting stories that divert away from the Puritan psyche are &quot;Wakefield&quot; in which a husband one day walks out of his house and never goes back home. He lives close by his wife and passes by her in the street for decades but never approaches her. There is no rhyme or reason for doing this. In &quot;Dr. Heidegger's Experiment&quot; the fountain of youth is presented to some elderly guests with surprising results. &quot;The Ambitious Guest&quot; is a cautionary tale about seizing the day. &quot;The Maypole of Merry-Mount&quot; is a surreal tale of circus entertainers coming to found a colony in the new world and their inevitable confrontation with the Puritans.<br />The only story in this book that I didn't like was &quot;The Celestial Railroad&quot;, strangely enough. It's an allegorical odyssey based on John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress and if you've never read that work, like me, you will not get anything out of it.<br />Hawthorne is a master of the short story. His strength is the ability to acknowledge that the evil in ourselves is undeniably existant but that only through admitting that existence can it be combatted. Lots of the characters in this collection destroy their lives with this admission. But at least they are true to themselves. If you enjoy this book, seek out The Scarlet Letter and The House of Seven Gables, or vice versa.	2001-08-04
US	47412112	R2IA50K7ZFSGFA	0686546792	441695212	Odile	Books	3	5	5	N	N	THE STRANGER FOR HAPPY PEOPLE	Roland Travy states that he was not born until his twenty-first year. It is while in the French army that year that he sees an Arab man gazing at the land and sky. Travy likens him to a poet or a philsopher and it is this image that begins to awaken his true inner being. Arriving back in Paris he falls in with Communist bohemian artists, political anarchists, pimps, and thugs. This is also where he meets Odile. In the end he accepts who he really is. <br />Queneau does a brillant job of showing the absurdity and humor in everything that happens in Odile. From the beginning there's a laugh when Roland states that his fellow soldiers &quot;are really good guys and all capable no doubt of making really good butchers&quot;. The bohemians are seen as ineffectual idiots more interested in preaching to their own circle of disciples than improving the common people. They're the same posers you see nowadays in cafes preaching to each other about the sad state of humanity but having no effect upon their fate. Roland sees all this but goes along with the different movements, at least superficially. At one point he visits a seance where the spirit of Lenin is summoned and as he walks out he comments how pathetic the spectacle was. Even Roland is guilty, spending 8-12 hours a day in his apartment working with mathematical problems. He has spent years in the belief that he is a latter day Isacc Newton or an Einstein who will discover the true nature of reality through mathematics and physics. He's also too proud to admit he's in love with Odile. It wouldn't be in keeping with his image if anyone knew he was in love. At the end of the book he has a vision of what he truly is and he snaps out of the childish games of his adulthood. <br />This novel is funny, and I mean that in the humorous sense. The characters are a little weak except for Roland but that's to be expected in an autobiographical work. The beginning and the end of the novel pack more punch than the middle. The crisisof identity is equal to The Stranger in some passages but here we have a happy ending. A realization of meaning. Or IS it a happy ending? Roland decides to live a &quot;normal&quot; life and dismisses any rebellion against society as a childish act of defiance and a losing battle. You have to be assimilated sooner or later.	2001-08-01
US	47412112	R2MKBHF0ZB7I3H	0714501263	740341571	Black Spider (Oneworld Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A SPIDER CAME AND SAT  DOWN AND KILLED THEM ALL	This novel starts out tranquilly as a group of friends and family gather for a christening at a Swiss farmhouse. Everything about it is idyllic, from the flowing green grass to the immaculate cleaness of the house itself. One of the visitors notices a black board in one of the window frames that clashes with the color of the house. He asks why it's there and an elderly grandfather begins the tale of the Black Spider. During the 1400's the valley was ruled by a succession of cruel knights and one of the worst was Hans von Stofflen who treats his serfs as slaves, beating them and cursing them in their destitution. After building a castle for him, he commands them to transplant 100 full-grown beech trees from another site to line a shady boulevard for him. There is no way to do this. That's when the Devil shows up and of course says he could do what is required easily-- for a price!  He wants a newborn baby. Of course this puts the peasants into a dilemma. To trust in God to offer some method of salvation or to take the quicker, easier way of Satan. One woman, Christine, takes it upon herself to agree to the Devil's terms. The village goes along with her decision in the false hope that after the trees are planted they can doublecross the Prince of Lies. Gotthelf was way ahead of his time in terms of portraying the mob mentality of the villagers. They are petrified until Christine takes action and becomes an easy scapegoat. In case anything goes wrong, they can say it was her fault. You feel sorry for them because they, (pardon the cliche), are between a rock and a hard place. If they don't finish the boulevard, their lord will take his vengance on them, if they do they have to give up one of their own. When the black spider is unleashed by Satan to punish the villagers, it seems as though God is taking a hand in it too. They fear the knight more than God.  The book seems very reminescent of the Bible tales in which the Jews would fall out of line and then God would punish them for their transgressions. They would renounce their evil ways for a generation or two and then it was the same cycle over again. Once the spider enters the picture the horror truly begins because it can appear anywhere. You cannot run from it. You cannot harm it. Its touch is death. It's a shame this book is out of print. Hunt it down. It's great.	2001-07-26
US	47412112	R263LR905N22FB	081016003X	740829707	Helene	Books	1	3	12	N	N	FREUDIAN SLIP INTO STUPIDITY!	The word &quot;...&quot; came to mind after I suffered through this book. A sixteen year old boy, eager to see the world, leaves his home and it's not long before we see him brooding in a cemetary over the meaning of life. He runs into Madame Helene de Sannis, a forty-three year old married aristocratic woman and the attraction begins. The passionate &quot;attraction&quot; is focused on her &quot;chevelure&quot;, or hairdo. He is weirdly obsessed with her hair and eventually it becomes known as Chevelure like it's a person. The first time he kisses her he kisses her hair, it's like medusa's snakes, he describes it. He comes to stay in her chateau, where she explains to her husband that he is a visting relative. He's a soldier so he's gone most of the time anyway. They continue on in their little childish games for about 100 pages. During which time Helene's nephew shows up as competition for her affection, at least that's how the boy sees it. As revealed on the back of the book, as they are having ... Helene dies of heart failure. Never a sign of ill health in her the whole book and there she is dead. The boy comes to the ridiculous conclusion that she sacrificed her life in order to awaken him to being a man. A think-tank of monkeys with pencils could come up with a better novel than this. It's so ridiculous. The style in which it was either written or translated is second-rate. As an example I offer this sample sentence:<br />&quot;If she was dead at that moment, dead from love, I was dead too. Was I dead, then? I was not dead, therefore she &quot;was not dead&quot;. <br />I have never read a more horribly constructed sentence. Don't worry. There's more where that came from. Overall, this novel was horrible. Freduian psychology is just another system of philosophy like dianetics which has unfortunately been treated as though it were a scientific system of thought. There are images in here also that the boy believes he is sleeping with his mother in the form of Helene. And that he killed her too. Now some would say that this is mixing the Oedipal complex with the Electra but I forgot to tell you that at times the boy believes he is a girl too. A ridiculous book based on a ridiculous school of thought.	2001-07-26
US	47412112	RX65YQA8WXETA	1564780856	37578281	The Stain (American Literature (Dalkey Archive)	Books	3	12	12	N	N	BIZARRO DE SADE	Can an entire book be one long sex act? This one can. You cannot read too many sentences without running into words such as &quot;intimate&quot;, &quot;pulsing&quot;, &quot;dangling&quot;, &quot;seductive&quot;. Not that I'm saying these are the only words used. They're just examples. Almost every page of this book is sexually charged but ironically there is very little explicit description. And it is through this partial concealment that Ducornet produces one of the most consistently erotic books I have ever read. And disturbing. It's how the Marquis de Sade would've written if he had had any talent. The book is set in the French village of La Folie during the 1880's. But the book feels as though it were happening during the Dark Ages. It centers on Charlotte, a young girl developing into womanhood who longs to be a saint. The problem is that she has been cursed by the Devil for being conceived out of wedlock by the lust of her parents. Her birth is described as though a demon were being born, not a human. She has a rabbit shaped birthmark on her face. Comically, rabbits receive bad press here for being associated with lust and sexual drive and so on. Well, actually they deserve that reputation. So Charlotte is shunned. All the religious figures that appear in this book are portrayed as disgusting and hypocritical. The Exorcist is actually a servant of Satan who tries to sow his oats anytime anywhere with anything. The mother superior secretly does acts that I cannot even describe on this site. The convent that Charlotte goes to thinking that she will be able to serve God is revealed as an abode of devil worship, sadism, and lust. Everything we think of as good in the world is evil here.  There are some redeeming characters in the book. Emile, Charlotte's uncle, is a simple loving man who loves to garden and teaches her about the ways of nature. And also Pere Poupin, a hunter, is the man who ultimately leads her to her destiny. It seems as though the more distant from civilization, the more civilized people are in this book. It takes a while to get used to the world that Ducornet portrays but it's an experience you should have. A lot of it is tongue in cheek and it becomes disappointingly more conventional as it reaches the end. This book is not for the squeamish, so if you are uptight about religion or sex, stay away from it.	2001-07-22
US	47412112	R3RNSEF0QO40Y9	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	3	3	N	N	AND FINALLY, THE STRANGER	The Stranger might be a book that you've always heard about and never settled down to the actual joy of reading it. Now is a good time. It's fairly short weighing in at 123 pages but the awesome power of Camus' artistry is that he accomplishes exactly what he wants efficently. It is the story of Monsieur Meursault, an office worker in his 30's whose mother has just passed away. As the book opens he is travelling to the nursing home where she died. Much has been said of the coldness of the character but he feels guilt about his mother. Throughout the novel there are hints that he believes he killed his mother by putting her there. Meursault seems to have lost his connection with humanity. He behaves more like an automaton that a man. He goes to work, he makes friends, he has sex, but he does these things on automatic pilot. Who knows why he kills the stranger on the beach? Meursault would probably say &quot;what difference did it make if I killed him or not?&quot; Good and evil have become irrelevant to him. I do not see why on the back of the novel and in some reviews I have read it is said that he is drawn UNWITTINGLY into a senseless murder. I believe he did it to wake himself up from the big sleep he had sunk into. If he killed a man, it would prove he had an effect upon the world. He could wipe out a life. In these days when we have to put up with OJ and Timoty McVeigh, the trial scenes written in 1946 seem very prophetic of times to come. The lawyers are more interested in appearances and drama than they are in prosecuting or defending the accused. All you would have to do is include TV cameras in the courtroom scenes and substitute lethal injection for the guillotine and this novel couldve have been written in 2001. It would still have the haunting power. It is a beautiful book. I don't know if its one of the greatest ever, but it is great. One of the other disturbing images in here is an old man that lives in Meursault's building who owns this mangy looking mutt that he is always beating and cussing at. When the dog disappears the old man loses all purpose in his life. In his own way, he was showing love for the dog by torturing it. It's just another way of showing the lies we invent to hide the truth from ourselves. I think Meursault was the biggest liar of all. Brillant translation.	2001-07-19
US	47412112	R23XR5DFLWCPAM	2070388409	592082309	Passion Simple, French Edition	Books	1	4	11	N	N	AN ANTHILL OF PASSIONS	One review on the cover of this book says it is &quot;a monument to passions&quot;. I believe it is an inconsequential anthill. This tiny little book, is in actuality simply an overpriced pamphlet. It consists of 64 pages but in large print and much doublespacing and footnotes at the bottom of some pages. Having just gone through the painful experience of wading through the 827 page Underworld by Don Delillo I decided to pick up this little book. It was a bad choice. There is nothing redeemable about the boring lackluster prose. The subject of love has been rhapsodied on for thousands of years and this boring little assemblage of pages adds nothing to its mystery. If anything, it cheapens it. With its emotionless tone, it resembles the side of a cereal box. Actually, the cereal box would be more entertaining. Ernaux could have minimalized her book even further by limiting it to two sentences: &quot;Woman loves married man. Has affair with him that ends.&quot; Actually, these lines are good representatives of the prose style in Simple Passion. I could go on but then the review would be longer than the book.	2001-07-18
US	47412112	RPKD5ZSQA050B	0714528501	927717932	Blue of Noon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	DEATH, SEX, AND REDEMPTION	I don't really know how to begin this review. There's not really a good angle to approach this remarkable and beautiful book. What do you do when the very things that attract you to a woman disgust you and yet they turn you on at the same time. In this novel Henri and his wife, whom he sometimes refers to by giving her the name &quot;Dirty&quot; are driving each other insane. They love each other but the very intensity of their personalities makes them fated to never be at peace. This is the root of their despair, that they both realize the futility of being with each other. Henri sinks into dissipation and having relationships with women he thoroughly despises. The first, a woman named Lazare, he refers to as a &quot;raven of ill omen&quot;. She is so ugly and despicable but he loves her in a way simply because she reeks of death. He wants to surround himself with an environment that reflects his state of mind. Dirty is dying and you sense that in reality her spirit has already passed on and its simply her image dragging Henri into her own horrible hell. Most of the book takes place in Spain just as the Spanish Civil War is beginning and there are all kinds of portents of the coming World War which adds to the darkness of the characters. This book was brillantly done. The characters seemed so real because they did hurt each other, because they did have unhealthy obsessions which they revel in instead of hiding them within. They give full vent to their joys just as much as their miseries. This is the first book I have read by Bataille and I am curious to see what his other work is like.	2001-07-16
US	47412112	R16D1OGMPN2EUQ	0553293400	579875460	The Caves of Steel (R. Daneel Olivaw, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	COLUMBO IN SPACE	3000 years into the future Earth is reaching the end of its rope in terms of how many human beings can reside on it. All of its inhabitants are crowded into supercities where privacy and personal space are long forgotten myths. Almost none of them can say they have ever seen the open sky before because of the domes that enclose them like prisons. All food is rationed. Adding to the tension of overpopulation, Spacers have arrived on Earth. Spacers are earthlings that left their planet a millenium before to colonize other planets with the help of robots. Their presence is not explained but the rumour is that the Spacers have come to take over and to gradually get rid of earth's inhabitants by replacing them with robot workers. A murder is committed in the Spacer city and Lije Baley is called in to solve the mystery and avert an intergalactic incident. The problem is that the Spacers want one of their own people to be his partner, and IT just happens to be a robot named R. Daneel Olivaw. Baley believes that if the robot solves the case first, then Baley, like all earthmen, will be replaced by the robot. This novel seems very prophetic now, even more so then when it came out in 1953. There have been many workers that have been put out of jobs by machines and there will be many more replaced by them in the decades to come. You can really identify with the Midievalists in the novel. These are radical groups of men and women who simply want to return to nature, the whole garden of eden scene where man works from the soil and is not reliant on technology. There's no real force for evil in the novel because everyone is shown to have a motive for what they are doing which gives it great depth. I thought that with its publication date  Caves of Steel would be hokey and dated but really the only thing dated about it was Baley's exclamation of the word &quot;Jehosophat!&quot; whenever he needed to swear.  One criticism I do have is that Baley seemed to be slightly unintelligent,almost. He very frequently comes to the wrong conclusions and looks like a total fool. But I guess in the end this just makes him more human. I enjoyed Caves and look forward to reading the second volume of the Robot series, The Naked Sun.	2001-07-16
US	47412112	R28HN14FUZ1AOC	0684842696	553694758	Underworld	Books	2	25	31	N	N	UH, WHAT WAS THE BOOK ABOUT AGAIN?	Works of art that are considered masterpieces now were greeted with bewilderment when they first appeared. For example, Moby Dick by Melville or Leaves of Grass by Whitman, or even the paintings of Van Gogh. Critics reacted negatively or maintained a position of neutrality about their worth. It seems that they had to wait for the works to gain an audience. I just finished reading Underworld and I really don't know what to make of it. The novel is so winding and vague and long that i dont remember half of the content. It seems like the parts that really stand out to me are the beginning and the whimpering end. I mean if you're going to attempt to write the equivalent of War and Peace for the nuclear age, you had better be a master of the long form novel. Delillo's style is suited more for shorter works. I don't know why I kept reading this book until the end. Probably because its variety and hopping back and forth in time did not let me get into a rut of boredom. There are 3 running themes or symbols throughout the book. The first is the baseball, the shot heard round the world, which is grabbed by Joseph Cotter, a young black kid. He is for all practical purposes the first cause from which the novel evolves. The baseball seems to encapsulate a moment of innocence and a longing for childhood and simpler times as a variety of characters quest for it or possess it. Nick Shays, the main character, is its last owner, and to him in symbolizes freedom and a time in his life when he did &quot;live&quot;, without being sucked into a job he doesn't care about and all the responsibilities of the american dream. The second theme is that of the shadow of fear cast by the possibility of nuclear war. The characters use the cold war as a means of comfort. They are able to paint the world in terms of black and white: USA vs. USSR. As the characters reach the 90's there is a sense of loss because some of them have anchored their belief systems on this war that no longer exists. The last symbol that comes up a lot is the subject of waste. We have refuse, we have nuclear waste, we have organically made feces. The authors criticism of wasteful americans is completely in the foreground. Dump sites are treated as views of epic landscapes. Genetic freaks caused by nuclear radiation are described in terms of beauty. As for characters and plot, they're practically non-existent thanks to the jumbled mess that is this book. I admire Delillo for what he attempted here but his talents do not lie in making epic productions. His genius lies in the small scale.	2001-07-12
US	47412112	R1ZEEM3HCBC5SF	0802150373	62415828	Murphy	Books	4	6	14	N	N	BECKETT TRIUMPHS!......SORTA	Murphy works as a novel, up to a certain point. Like most Joycean influenced works, this novel sometimes loses itself in vague obscurities. The key to connecting with this work is how well you can connect to the main character. Whether you can do this or not determines the success or failure of Murphy. Like most 20th century human beings, Murphy is disillusioned with modern life, especially that part that requires us to work for a living. Murphy and Celia, his lover, are well drawn, but the other characters seem to be hastily assembled scenery. The phraseology the book uses is interesting at first but becomes distracting as you read more and more. This novel was very prophetic of our present, with our search for meaning in a capitalist society. It almost plays like a 1938 version of American Beauty. You should read this novel partly for enjoyment and partly to gain wisdom.	2001-06-28
US	47412112	R3KHT7T5HS3L2B	0140144528	861792853	Visions of Gerard: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	THE BEAT BEGINS	This is the earliest chapter in Kerouac's autobiography/novel series. It is a novel that celebrates childhood but not innocence. There is a sense that Kerouac believes, like William Blake, that innocence cannot truly exist on the plane of existence without being destroyed. His brother is portrayed as a Christ of sorts who touches everyone around him with an aura of goodness. As is usual with a Kerouac work, there is no summary that does justice to his novels. The problem with most of them is that the narrator is so prevalent that no other characters seem to develop or have a consciousness outside of his viewpoint. But this novel does not suffer from this weakness. For once he is focused on a character other than himself. With Kerouac, there also comes a paradoxical joy in life and also the sad knowledge that we all will die sooner or later. The only complaint I had about this book was that it was too short. But I guess the same can be said about life.	2001-06-28
US	47412112	R3ROVKTEVNBO1R	0679424539	792574023	Separation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Harrowing Encounter	This novel written in the style of a memoir is one of the most painful books I have ever read. There are no proper names used in it. This contributes further to its realistic depiction of a rapidly desintergrating marriage. The narrator is a writer living in Paris who begins to notice that his wife of seven years has begun to lose interest in him. The first sign is rather simple. He tries to hold her hand and gets no response. Her coldness increases and finally she tells him that she is in love with another man. The action of the novel is really never seen through the eyes of the wife. We only have the husbands view of what is going on in the marriage. And what a view it is, starting with worry, then to accomodation, then jealousy, anger and the blacker emotions. For most of the book, it seems like nothing really happens. Both of them seem to flounder finding courage to end the lie of their marriage. They use the kids as an excuse to stay together but this is just a ruse to hide their fear of losing each other. Sometimes I became disgusted with the characters, simply because they did not have the guts to just walk away. But just like in real life, people find it hard to walk away from situations even if they are unhealthy, whether it is due to love, insecurity, or loneliness. This is a powerful novel whose story has been repeated through the ages and will probably continue to do so in the future.	2001-06-23
US	47412112	R3AE7LF5Y0M0NZ	0679748148	942831312	Sanctuary: The Corrected Text	Books	5	45	47	N	N	A Novel Master	William Faulkner stands in my mind with only a few authors whose writing does not seem like writing. His novels seem more moments of real life. While I was reading &quot;Sanctuary&quot; you forget you are reading a book and the characters take on a virtual reality in your mind. Like all of Faulkner's books, this one is disorienting at first, simply by the author's strength of vision. The main plot revolves around Temple Drake, a coquettish college girl who likes to secretly sneak out of her college dorm to attend dances. One of her rides back from one of these dances is a boy named Gowan Stevens. He decides to stop off at an illegal moonshine operation and promptly sets about getting drunk. Temple is trapped at the house surrounded by all sorts of shady characters you would associate with such an operation. One of these is named Popeye, and trust me he is not a hero, he rapes Temple. One of the things I found slightly disturbing was the sense that Temple is a flirt and you get the sense that Faulkner felt that eventually some sex crime was going to be committed against her. She could get away with things around college boys but she fails to realize that with criminals, its a very bad move. It's the beginning of her great moral slide that was always just waiting to happen. There are other subplots going on around it. The owner of the moonshine operation is a convict and his wife supported herself through prostitution while he was in the joint, which is a source of tension between them. Horace Benbow is a lawyer who has left his wife simply because he recognizes the hollowness of his marriage. These characters are connected by the crime against Temple. The depressing thing about this novel is that noone really gets a sanctuary. The ending is not pretty. That's what makes it so powerful and so real.  This book is right up there with Shakespeare and Dostoyevsky in sheer power of vision.	2001-06-15
US	47412112	R1HT2JQSZT1H02	0679767932	491749312	An Imaginary Life	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Back to Nature, B.C. style	Ovid, maybe the greatest Roman poet of the Augustan period, was famous not only for his &quot;Metamorphoses&quot; but also his works on the art of love. It was these works which dragged him into scandal and censorship of his works. Yes, as long as there has been authority, authority has been afraid of rebels.  For his scandalous works and perhaps for some political reasons Ovid was exiled to the ends of the empire, the equivalent of Siberia to the Romans. He would live out the rest of his days away from everything and everyone he had ever known.  This work tries to chronicle his thoughts and actions in those last years in the village of Tomia on the Black Sea. Ovid only has the memories of his past to give him consolation in his loneliness. In particular, he has memories of encounters with a wild boy raised by wolves that he last saw as a young boy. During a hunt with the villagers he sees what he believes to be this very same wild boy. He convinces the village headman to capture the boy and Ovid sets about trying to civilize the Child into what he believes to be humanity. Ironically, it is Ovid who finds himself being educated. This is a short and beautiful book. Its transcendent message of casting off the past and finding your destiny is one very relevant to our age. We have lost touch with primal nature.	2001-06-12
US	47412112	R3U8IV7JICTD90	0679760229	6837157	Quicksand	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Help me I'm sinking!	Sonoko Kakiuchi has a problem. She is bored with her husband that her family is supporting through law school. So she found a lover but he has become worthless to her. To waste some time she begins to attend art classes and that's where she begins to become obsessed with the most beautiful woman she has ever seen, Mitsuko. What follows are affairs, deceit, puzzles within puzzles, lies, and everything that comes along with extra marital affairs. You can only read in amazement as Mitsuko slowly devours the lives of everyone around her. Beneath the simple plot, there are deep issues about love and trust explored in this book. As the book progresses, reality also comes more into question. For a work of &quot;literature&quot;, this book is a real page turner. It almost reads like a mystery novel with elements of James Ellroy and Paul Auster. This is my first exposure to Tanizaki, so I look forward to reading his other works. He seems like a real master of the novel.	2001-06-06
US	47412112	R88WKH345USBR	0451457854	265583115	Broken Time	Books	2	6	7	N	Y	Siggy Starling and Daffy Duck	Siggy Lindquist has a problem. She's graduating from high school in a distant future when only A-students get the best jobs. The problem is she is a B-student. That's how she ends up being a janitor at the Institute for the Criminally Insane. Of course it is run by a mad scientist type known only as the Director who cons Siggy into speaking to some of the inmates in an effort to learn about its most mysterious residents called The Professor. Siggy can have little inkling that her life will soon be intertwined with the fate of the human race and its uneasy peace with an alien race known as the Speedies. You should know you're in for a lot of fluff in a novel when the dedication of the book is to a cat named Mungy-Bungy. Siggy's ability to dance is used as a foundation for the entire book, she even makes friends with aliens by teaching them how to dance. The relationships between the characters are right out of the babysitter's club series for teenage girls or more likely, from bad soap operas. The asylum scenes are straight from Silence of the Lambs. I couldn't help but visualize Anthony Hopkins as the Professor when I would read the scenes with him in it. Another weakness that almost made me put the book down many times were the inane twentieth century references in the book. In this distant future, television is still going strong, you still use a keyboard and a monitor to surf the net, Daffy Duck and the Looney Tunes are as popular as ever, and ballroom dancing is an awesome negotiating tool for making peace with aliens. Only when the book concentrates on its plot and moving the action forward does it succeed. Any attempt to give the characters background and life fails miserably. There is no depth to this book. Then again, it is stated that this is the author's first novel so maybe she will recognize her potential in her next couple of books.	2001-06-04
US	47412112	R3G09ZV68FRH5X	0881335746	60806839	Henry Von Ofterdingen: A Novel	Books	1	11	38	N	N	Where's the Beef?	Coming to this book I only knew Novalis as a master of poetry, not as a novelist. And now I know why. The novel centers on Henry, a budding scholar and would-be poet who has had a vision. In this vision he sees a blue flower, and in its shape, the image of an unknown woman and he feels he must discover her identity. As he travels to Augsburg in the company of some merchants and his mother, he encounters many interesting personalities before he comes face to face with his dream. This book suffers mostly because of the eighteenth century tradition of digression. For instance, in one scene where Henry meets with an older poet and asks him to tell him a fairy tale, the tale itself eats up 20 pages of this novel. The tales that surround the main novel are thin, transparent, and lifeless. And what is left of the book is either taken up by philosophical or merely descriptive prose. While I highly recommend reading the authors &quot;Hymns to the Night&quot; this book is boring at best and awful at worst.	2001-05-23
US	47412112	R1N5OOXFIEIIP2	0345419707	248059624	The Magic Labyrinth (Riverworld Saga, Book 4)	Books	2	8	11	N	N	THIS IS THE END, DISAPPOINTING FRIEND	This is the fourth installment of the Riverworld series and what an anti-climax it is. It concentrates on two main storylines. The first is the confrontation between the two riverboats of Samuel Clemens and King John. The second is the adventure of Richard Burton and his allies as they make their way to the secret tower to finally know the secrets of the Ethicals. Both storylines are handled childishly. Farmer has no skill in showing battle scenes. This is especially apparent in a dogfight between the two ships air forces. The battles become cluttered and because of this lose all sense of drama. Storylines and characters that seemed important in the first 3 books are either ignored or cast aside. Samuel Clemens is portrayed as an imitation of Captain Ahab. His thirst for revenge is only equalled by the imbecility of his stratagies and tactics in battle. As for Richard Burton and his band it becomes almost a K-mart version of the fellowship of the ring except the band is so non-existent that you don't even know who's in it until a character speaks up. It's unclear which characters are around because the scenes are so poorly constructed. The hype on the inside of this book states that the Riverworld series should be compared to the Dune and Foundation sagas. I know Isaac Asimov. Mr. Farmer, you are no Isaac Asimov. Looking back over this series, the first volume is the only one worth reading. The rest of them are hackwork.	2001-05-13
