US	47454700	R26RUILV961YJ9	0380753006	796463661	Savage Thunder (Wyoming-Western Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	one of lindsey's better works	i usually steer clear of the \\"old west\\" romance because i have read some that were so god awful that i was cringing every other line. after reading some of lindsey's other works i decided to give \\"angel,\\" the sequel to this work, and \\"savage thunder a try. lindsey is a writer who writing style leads more toward the tamer side of bedroom scenes. sometimes being so vague that i wont have known that anything happened until a few chapters later. but she makes up for it wonderfully in her characters and flowing dialogue.<br />this story of jocelyn, a widowed duchess being hunted by a inept man trying to kill her so her money will go to her dead husband's greedy relatives, and colt, a half breed who is bitter and jaded after a horribe experience when he is found courting a \\"white woman\\" is one i had not seen before. when jocelyn sees colt she knows he is the one who can help her with her \\"little problem.\\" her marriage to the duke was one of convience, he was dying and she needed a protector but he was never able to consumate the marriage. jocelyn refuses to let anyone know of this failing and so in order to marry later she must take a lover and be rid of her virginity. she hires colt as her guide for a near fortune after she traps him in a bluff and the story that follows is humorous and delightful.<br />like any story there is good and bad.<br />the good: lindsey's characters are heart warming, like some long lost friend. jocelyn and colt together were priceless and i was laughing quite a bit as jocelyn is anything but some prim and meek duchess. this book surprisingly had a few very steamy scenes and one that was rather umm shall we say creative? it was all still tasteful it just added an edge to the book in my opinion. the story itself is unique and i found it pretty refreshing as the duchess is anything but helpless and simpering as in many books. it has great dialogue between characters that is snappy and fast. the characters are witty in a way that few writers can accomplish. never once did any of linsdey's characters sound melodramtic and in fact they seem pretty at ease with themselves. many writers go into that self torture bit which may be a little more realistic sometimes but can become tiresome quickly. the book kept my interest from beginning to end with no real lag anywhere. <br />now sadly for the bad: this book is one in a continuing series though you wouldn't know it from just looking at it. now i wouldn't begrudge anyone a series but there is no mention that this a sequel to any other books but draws pretty heavily from it prequel. nothing major as i was still able to understand the plot but i felt almost cheated since many former events are refered to. i will read the prequel, as soon as i figure just exactly which one of lindsey five million books it is, and volia i will know what's going on. but while reading \\"savage thunder\\" it was annoying. the side stories were a  little bland when i would have liked to have seen the developing relationships instead of just being told \\"oh yeah and then those two fell in love.\\" and finally the ending was just a little to nice and neat for me. all colt's unresolved bitterness and mistrust are resolved after one short visit from his sister? come on. it didn't need to be anything epic but it felt like lindsey was just tired of writing and wanted to just end it.<br />i liked this book. the characters are great, the dialogue superb and the story original. i wish they would list the books that come before this one or just declare it a series already and aside from the somewhat lackluster ending this was an enjoyable read and it will be staying on my bookshelf for awhile. check it out it's a fun read.	2002-11-01
US	47454700	R2KFTHGKB88WDF	084395048X	315047773	Lair of the Lion	Books	3	3	4	N	N	just not up to par	after reading christine feehan's acclaimed \\"Dark Series\\" i considered her an author's whose style i liked and so thought any book, even outside her dark series, would be good. but sadly i'm finding that not to be true. \\"Liar of the Lion\\" left me dissappointed and feeling cheated.<br />The story of Isabella Vernaducci who seeks Don Demarco out to ask for help to free her brother intrigued me at frist. Isabella is a determined woman who has lost everything when her father died and her estate was given to a cold, ruthless man and her brother deemed a traitor. Don Demarco agrees to help Isabella if she will marry him. She agrees without hesitation but she doesn't know of the horrible curse that plagues the Demarco family or the mysterious valley he lives in.<br />i found both good and bad in this book. for the good: Isabella is a likeable enough character who doesn't take [stuff] from anyone but is innocently naive enough to warm anyone's heart. her relationship with don demarco is as hot as it comes with many passionate scenes. no one has ever accused mrs. feehan's works of being tame in that respect. There are several scenes when don demarco's possessiveness pops up in interesting ways that are also a trade mark of feehan's writing.<br />but.... these things were offset by so many things that just had me rolling my eyes. First off the presence of lion's in an italian valley was so far fetched, even for a gothic novel, that for me it took away from the story though i could have looked past it if the story had been better. much of the dialogue outside of the bedroom scenes was melodramatic and sounded forced. for every great scene that had me applauding feehan as an author there were two that had me cringing. the scenes were isabella must reason with the servants that a \\"manelovent force\\" was the cause for various people's behavior involves many long winded speechs that seem unneccessary and take the suspense of the novel down quite a few notches. The only real tensionin this book is between the hero and herione and even that seems lame and isabella offers everything freely to the don. he instead forces her away and then calls her back so many times i felt like screaming.<br />a somewhat original plot here is weighed down by blame dialogue, fairly two-dimensional characters and so many improbabilities that i found the book making it's way into the pile for my local used book store. it just wasn't something i thought was worth keeping. is it good for an afternoon read? yeah sure, but would i spend {my hard earned money] for it again? no. it just wasn't up to par with her other works. if you want a better version of this book check out \\"the scarletti curse\\" or better yet any of her \\"dark series\\" books.	2002-10-27
US	47454700	RFM45TIRSIJTN	0312960891	906503525	Innocence Undone (St. Martin's Paperbacks Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	one you can't put down	after hearing the buzz surrounding this book i decided to give it a try and was definitely rewarded. i am a huge fan of kat martin's work and have read a fair number but, like anything else, some of her works can start to sound repetetive. &quot;innocence undone&quot; is one of the better regency romances i have ever read.<br />Jessic Fox was a girl who saw a live of poverty stretching out before her and swore that she would be a lady. after seeking help from the aging marquess who agrees to help her. skip ahead a few years when mathew, the marquess' son, comes home from battling the french as a captin in the english navy. he remembers the rag clad girl who he knew as a young boy and refuses to believe the jessica fox that he sees now is any different. what he can't deny though is the incredible pull he feels towards her, though he vows nothing will come of it, though the marqess wants nothing more than for these two people he loves most to marry.<br />this book has so many scenes that were not only original but had me smiling and laughing. the wedding scene was classic and something that was so different from what most other authors would have handled it that i had to take my hat off to mrs. martin. as always this kat martin book is duly steamy and even has a side story of gwen, jessica's friend, meeting up with her man, adam harcout. their story is just as enthralling as matt and jessi's.<br />this book was one of those you want to read on a rainy day when you have plenty of time because you don't want to put it down. it's fun and just a good read. check it out.	2002-10-22
US	47454700	R5062K833K1AJ	0671737821	177598856	Honor's Splendour	Books	5	6	8	N	N	one of her best	usually julie garwood's book are a little to tamed for me though i find myself constantly looking for her on the shelves of whatever bookstore i'm in but this book was a definite gem. The relationship between the two main characters is something to make any romance fan sigh over and hold the book close.<br />madelyn is the sister of duncan \\"the wolf\\" worst enemy. When he invades his enemnies stronghold he captures madelyn in the process and is instantly enchanted by her loving nature and courage. i love how julie garwood always makes her heroes strong but her heriones just as strong. madelyn is loyal and sets out to right the wrongs done to duncan and his family by her brother. <br />\\"honor's spledour\\" is one of those stories where you find yourself smiling like an idiot as you read it. and laughing out loud at the antics of the characters. it's an optimistic work that doesn't drag you down as some works will in the insecurities of the characters. in fact one of the reasons i love julie garwood's work is the fact that her characters never waver in their love for the other. the heroes decide they want the herione and they go after her. It;s the strong man who suddenly finds himself in love and hasn't a clue as to how it happened.<br />i definitely reccommend this to any fan of romance or even someone who has never broached the genre. give it a try, you wont be sorry.	2002-10-11
US	47454700	RTOZJ129MKWM7	0312966407	601817757	Wicked Promise	Books	3	8	8	N	N	bits and pieces	i love kat martin books. her steamy writing style, characters that aren't afraid of society or their sexuality (a nice change from simpid writers to caught up in being afraid of wanting another person) and great secondary characters. I felt torn on this book for though there were parts i dearly loved there were also parts of the book where i was just like \\"What the hell was that?!\\"<br />First for the good: Elizabeth is a woman needs protection. After her father dies she is sought after but a man who is determined  to have her, even by foul means. She asks Nicholas warring, her guardian, for protection and he grudgingly agrees. One problem, he's wildly attracted to her. Nicholas killed a man nine years ago and was sent off to serve his time. He's gone down hill since his return, earning the name the \\"wicked earl\\" for his rakish ways.<br />Elizabeth is the breath of fresh air that has nicholas' head spinning. i loved the way nicholas is determined to protect elizabeth from him and the life he lives. The passion the two of them have is great. the way they each have power over each other is a nice change from the always experienced hero. i loved nicholas' character in how he is protective and tortured. you have love those kind of heros...a little jaded but still a teddy bear inside. the bedroom scenes were great as always though like anything else they alone can't carry a book.<br />Now for the bad parts: the problem of nicholas being married is pretty much ignored throughout the book. his wife is in all of three scenes. elizabeth is almost to naive when she proclaims that nicholas is not married in the \\"eyes of god\\" since his wife left abandoned him when he was convicted of murder. The ending was to predictable. this story follows the cookie cutter regency era romance. everything is solved nice and neat and though this is ultimately a good thing it's to spontaneous and easy to really make an impacton the reader. i found myself asking \\"is that it?\\" which isn't really that great a sign. <br />did i enjoy this book? yes. did i think it was one of the best kat martin has written? no. though the passion is there and burning hot there book starts to decline in the end.	2002-10-09
US	47454700	R245Q7BFR16ZBJ	0380756250	143694847	Once a Princess (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	alright	Johanna Lindsey's work are always a joy to read. Her dialogue can make any story seem like a masterpiece but it just wasn't enough for me in this book. <br />Stefan, the arrogant, scarred prince must seek out a woman he promised to marry at birth to appease his father. There's just one problem, she was spirited away to america when she was still just a baby and now has gone missing. In comes Tanya, a tavern wench living in the mississippi valley. Stefan realizes that she is his princess, after a few mishaps. Just one thing, Tanya doesn't believe she's this so-called princess for a minute. Oh and we can't forget that Stefan believes that she is a whore, since she danced at the tavern she worked at.<br />though many thought this was a cinderella story, and yes i did find it charming, there were just to many glaring improbabilities that detracted from the story. first off Tanya is apparently this legenardy, helen of troy beauty but hides it behind actor's makeup. exactly where does a girl living in the mississippi valley in the 19th century get actor's makeup? i don't think she could just pop down the street to resupply. This makeup is also apparently the most versitile thing ever since it survives just about everything but having a flame thrower put to it.<br />Second Stefan kept jumping Tanya every time he was angry. I know i know this was explained as a way to \\"channel his anger.\\" but it seemed to simple in a way and almost forced. and finally the ending just seemed to neat. it also seemed forced, bringing a new character three pages from the end and then like \\"oh he's dead. how are you dear?\\" <br />did i enjoy this book? yes i did. i love lindsey's dialouge and dynamic characters but there were just a few to many \\"yeah rights\\" in this book for me to really place it on my favorites list.	2002-10-05
US	47454700	R1WVHH2ZGA8ADL	0671870963	378094364	Prince Charming	Books	5	7	8	N	N	how could you not love it?	i have been a fan of julie garwood since i haphazardly picked up \\"the bride\\" and fell in love with her optimistic and romantic writting. This is one of my favorite book by mrs. garwood.<br />This story of an heriess, taylor, hell bent on saving her two nieces in america and Lucas, a rugged man from the american frontier just as hell bent on saving taylor. Their marriage was one of convience to help taylor gain access to her inheirtance and get her to america but the love that developes between the two characters is heartwarming.<br />I love garwood's heroes as the reluctantly chivalrous men trying their damnest not to be drawn to garwood's heriones. I love taylor's spunk and determination. Though she is naively innocent she can wield a gun with the best of them. Little oddities like that are what always make garwood's work so much fun to read.<br />i definitely enjoyed this book. i couldn't stop reading it which is always a good sign in my opinion. try it out and be ready to be a fan:)	2002-09-25
US	47454700	R1NLCEQ7POBOZ0	0727854879	104312998	A Gentle Feuding	Books	4	15	17	N	N	sweet read	I am a diehard fan of romance and though i love a good steamy book as much as the next gal \\"steamy\\" can't carry a book alone. To many books have horrible dialouge that sounds like something out of a bad B movie. Johanna Lindsey's defining characteristic, in my opinion, is her dialouge, the rapid byplay of characters allows them to become people instead of those lusty people trying to get out of their clothes as if it were a timed olympic event.<br />\\"Gentle Feuding\\" follows the story of jamie and sheena two people from rival clans. Sheena is the redhaired beauty of her clan and jamie is ofcourse the laird of his. He sees sheena bathing in  a pool in a glen (don't we all love a little dip every now and again?) and becomes enchanted by her beauty, as does everyone else who sees her. Though some people thought this whole thing of the herione being the legendary beauty that everyone is always falling all over themselves to get is tacky and unbelievable, but instead it added a sense of romanticism to the work. Sheena has to have her jamie fight off the advances of others to win her. Doesn't ever girl want someone willing to fight for them? <br />Sheena and Jamie are thrown together by some extraordinary circumstances and Jamie sets out to win Sheena though many others are viaing for her, even his own brother and a third party who is attempting to keep their two clans at war despite everyone's best effort to end it. everyone will love niall, sheena's little brother, because he'll remind you of your own brother at that age and you can't help but smile at his antics.<br />Another nice aspect to this work was the fact that jamie was actually near Sheena's age. Though sheena is still young by our standards today, 19, jamie is only 25 instead of say in his mid-thirties like most other novels. though this is because of the traditions and practicies of the time when these books are placed it's still nice every now and again to see a young lusty hero. <br />\\"Gentle Feuding\\" has afew imporbable aspects and Lindsey doesn't have much in the way of sexual tension or \\"bedroom scenes\\" in her work, but it's still a pretty fun read. i always laugh when i see the spunk of her characters and continue to read her works. it's an entertaining book, give it a try.	2002-09-24
US	47454700	R1JUK66VI0V1IR	0821762818	594896475	The Silent Rose	Books	4	6	6	N	N	41/2 stars	i was extremely annoyed to hear other reviewers complaining that they didn't like this book because it wasn't a historical romance like kat martin's other books. one reviewer said they didn't reccommend the book because they just \\"assumed\\" it would be historical and didn't even bother to read the summary on the back. personally i admire any author who can jump time period the way mrs. martin does. <br />this was the first kat martin book i read. i picked it up on a whim and ever since have been a die hard fan and am slowly reading through her back list. i love her steamy style with passionate heriones and dark, roguish heroes. this particular story took some flack for being a supernatural/ paranormal book but truth be told that is only a very small aspect of the book. \\"the silent rose\\" is the story of Devon James, an author who visits an inn and has an experience she can't explain, which quickly comes to consume her in a way that confuses her. hoping it will help her understand why she feels a connect to the people who lived so long ago in that house Devon begins to do research on the inn and the family that owned it. <br />Jonathon Stafford is the head of the Stafford family and it was his old family home that Devon begins to investigate. he vows to stop her using any means neccessary to protect his family and their good name. Jonathon is cold, determined man in the beginning of the work but when he meets Devon the passion is instant. i always love a brooding hero, it adds more action to the story and really who wants a man who wont put up a fight? :)<br />The story that follows as each character tries to work out what they feel for the other and their own personal convictions is wonderful. Jonathon has been burned in the past, something typical in many romances but always treated different i feel by each author, when he married a shallow woman when they were never really in love. Devon was also burned by a cheating husband, a nice addition i thought since to oftenthe herione is some foppish virgin who has someone how always known someone was waiting for her. Jonathon wants her to quit her work but Devon steadfastly refuses. <br />i loved the chemistry between these two characters and the secondary characters are great. from Devon's crazy new aged friend to Jonathon's channel clothed sister. none detract from the story however and you find yourself wanting to smack one character and then hug them all in the same breath.<br />the paranormal aspect is treated as real. ghosts are assumed to exist and this does take place in current day, no regency era here so if you want historical check out any number of martin's other books which are just as great. or if you can't deal with whole ghost thing martin has other contemporary novels. check this one out i had a blast reading it. a good romance to while away a day with. you wont be able to put it down, i wasn't :)	2002-08-29
US	47454700	R3QPBQFAGVT8R5	0312953038	567073858	Bold Angel	Books	4	10	10	N	N	more passion than drama	\\"Bold Angel\\" is the story of Caryn, the daughter of a slain saxon lord in an Noram conquered england, and Ral, a Norman lord who now holds Caryn's father's land. Caryn was living in a convent when she's taken by lord malvern, Ral's rival, to Ral's holdings. Ral proposes that she marry him to save her from Malvern and so the story goes.<br />Caryn is a fiery herione who follows the mold of petite leading lady for the bigger than life hero. It's an endearing match that leads to some interesting problems. This story is laced with conflict but it's more the emotional kind than any real actions. <br />I found myself agreeing with both reviews that said this was a great book and those that said it had little action. Though Ral is a warlord of sorts the story mostly centers around Caryn and her relationship with Ral. This actually reminded me of a julie Garwood story in that respect. But this absence of violence didn't really detract from the story. Ral and Caryn's relationship is entertaining enough in itself with each one fighting desire for the other and both turning out to be passioante caring people.<br />The secondary characters are compelling and are there to move the story along and add perspective rather than detract from the story or set up a sequel...though i would love to read Odo's story, ah well can't have everything.<br />This is a nice work that is an enjoyable read...check it out but don't expect some sweeping war drama it's a little bit more fluff than that...it's a romance work. you know love and opptimism and all :)	2002-08-25
US	47454700	RRXGI5V58RW2G	0312962436	994782512	Nothing But Velvet	Books	4	2	3	N	N	good but no one "moment"	as nearly every other person who reviews a kat martin book they have usually gone through a number of her other books. it's the same case with me. i first picked up mrs. martin's book \\"the silent rose\\" and loved the steamy and passionate way she wrote her stories. the conflict and characters that clashed and came together with something a little more possesive than love, a little more conflicting than courtship. her books always have me turning the pages as fast as i can.<br />\\"Nothing but velvet\\" is the story of velvet moran, a paupered heiress in need of a wealthy husband to survive, and Jason Sinclair, the defamed duke framed for the murder of his father. Jason kidnaps Velvet to keep her from marrying his half brother Avery who we learn in the first few pages was the actual murdered of Jason's father. Everything leads from there as Jason searchs to clear his name and again and again ends up thrown together with velvet and a sexual tension that simmers just below the surface.<br />Though i liked this book i felt like there was no defining moment in this book. That one moment where everything clicks and both people realize, whether they admit it or not, that they care about the other person past simple lust. Jason is the classic tortured hero but the reader is left to wonder why he's so tortured until nearly the end of the book when it would have had far more impact earlier. Velvet is the naive but passionate heroine. <br />Martin's heriones are one of the reasons i so love her books. Her leading ladies are never afraid of their sexuality, even when they are portraited in eras as the 18th century. Velvet accepts Jason's desires and damn near seduces him herself several times. It's a refreshing change and something i wish i could see more of.<br />Though Velvet is almost overly naive and innocent or the \\"good\\" socital lady she's likeable and loyal. The only thing that truly bothered me in this book was that it was written in the time period of 18th century england.This is not a very common period to have a romance take place, at least in my experience. it was hard to imagine some of the places and dress and i found myself placing the characters in a regency setting instead. this was more my personal doings than any draw back from the book. i just have little experience with the history of that particular era.<br />All in all this was a book i don't regret reading. i will still continue to read kat martin's books and consider her a fine author.	2002-08-25
US	47454700	R2KR55KB1PTY3G	0505523302	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	great new twists!	ever read one of those annoying completely predictable vampire books? you know the ones with the suave, vampire with a heart of gold and all that crap? yeah i've dragged through my share to well thank god this isn't one of those. Christine Feehan has developed a whole new world with her dark series. One with heriones who can do more than swoon and flutter and heroes who can do more than smash stuff.<br />Dark Prince is the story of Mikhail, the prince of an ancient race called carpathians. They live surprise surprise in the Carpathian mountains. After 200 years carpathian males lose the ability to feel emotions or see colors until they find their lifemate, in this case it a small fiesty american, oh aren't those the best? spunky, tradition snubbing american clashes with old world domineering male? if no lifemate appears the males can turn, turning into the vampires of human legend. anyway this woman, Raven is psychic and has been tracking serial killers when she takes a vacation to the carpathian mountains to rest. and meets the mysterious, dashing and dark mikhail.<br />Mikhail doesn't know how but he does know for certain that Raven is his lifemate and will kill anyone who tries to take her away from him. you've got to love those possesive, jealous guys who can't help but give into their compassionate heriones. Mikhail completes the binding ritual of his people and so the problems begin. Mikhail knows he could conceiveable convert Raven to carpathian but most likely she would turn into a deranged vampiress and have to be destroyed. The problem also arises that Mikhail's people are being hunted by a secret society of vampire hunters and Raven is being hunted by vampires who are seeking a mate though they are beyond help.<br />i loved this story for the unusal story line and devoured it in a single night and immediately bought the entire series. This story acts like a template for the other books of the series but if you are afraid you'll be reading the same story over and over again be reassured each story is different and something completely unto itself. <br />definetly go for this book. something different with the strong, sure hero so absent in real life of late it seems and the herione who knows what she wants and isn't intimidated. a good read i would reccomend to anyone.	2002-06-30
US	47454700	RPDHMGALKUWLS	055358054X	559388108	The Truelove Bride	Books	3	6	10	N	N	3 1/2 stars	first i think it needs to be said that i am a die hard romance reader, much to my friends' enternal shame but i digress. i love the superstars of this genre such as julie garwood, owning a good portion of her books, and thought mrs. abe sounded interesting when i read an excerpt from her website of this book but when i finally bought the book i was more dissappointed than pleasantly surprised.<br />before i'm ruthlessly attacked by all those hardcore abe fans and diehard fans of this particular book let me state why this book fell flat for me. The story had so much potential that it drove me nearly crazy when things followed a boring, usually pretty predictable path. A curse is placed on a highland clan when a lady from their clan is attacked by a rouge fey or demon depending on your point of view and she dies. Her husband makes a deal with the devil for revenge but in payment the devil places a curse upon his clan that cannot be broken until their laird some day marries a specific woman who will replace their clan to prosperity. and so goes the story with our lovely heroine taken by our hero and hating all along the way. <br />Most of the book fell far short of the standards that i hold for published books, with errors in grammar and the occasional spelling error that is fine for some internet publishing but when a book is put in print by a major publisher an editor isn't to much to ask for.<br />some scenes i will admit had me enthralled but sadly this was the exception more than the rule. The two led characters had little chemistry which is troublesome since they are fictional but i honestly didn't care if they ended up together and the hero's seduction of his \\"lady love\\" was anything but love inspired.<br />Some mysticism is present in this book which threw me for a loop since this book never laid any claims to be a fantasy/ romance. I could never decide if this was suppose to be some magic infused romance or a fantasy or some highland fey workings. Scenes likethe two led characters in the field where the lady of their clan was so long ago taken by a rouge fey is strange with both characters remakring on smelling brimestone, supposedly from that fateful lady's husband beseeching the devil for revenge. Karate is thrown in, through never actually called that, for good measure and i was just gritting my teeth against the ton of improbablities which wouldn't have bothered me so much if mrs. abe hadn't dragged in the politics of the day by talking of popes and kings and such, setting the stage for the that point in time in this reality.<br />all in all i would say this book is ok for an afternoon read but it doesn't rate high on my favorites list.	2002-05-29
US	47454700	R1T16CR6TUDJHQ	0671744216	986944205	The Secret	Books	4	0	0	N	N	pretty damn good	after having read about a million reviews gushing over this book with every other person declaring this the best book ever written or \\"their all time favorite\\" i decided to check it out. romance books are to often just plain awful. dialouge and plot more often then not take a a back seat to implausible relationships. you will never hear me complain about garwood's dialouge. honestly she is one of the best authors to deal with this difficult topic. getting written dialouge to sound natural is a hard task but mrs. garwood masers it superbly.<br />this book is another one of mrs. garwood's english/scottish crossovers. iain maitland is laird of his clan and when his brother's wife requests that her english best friend be allowed to come to their home to assit when she has her child iain reluctantly agrees and sets off to fetch this englishwoman. sexual tension abounds from the beginning which was nice change from many novels where two characters just suddenly decide they want each other desperately. judith, the english friend, and iain's relationship is complex and full of plenty of laughs. though garwood seems to have a fascination with blonde hair, violet eyed heroines that are so beautiful men trip over themselves staring at her that's what romance novels are all about.<br />i read this book directal after i read \\"the bride\\" and was a bit annoyed to see that it followed the same basic pattern but there were enough changes to make this book worth the read. this is one work i think i'll hang on to and i know i will be check out \\"ransom\\" the sequel to the book as well as the rest of garwoods works.<br />in short this book is worth the time to read it!	2002-03-11
US	47454700	R34LF73TXTUG37	0061081531	474306596	The Greatest Lover in All England (Harper Monogram)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	good	christina dodd has a great, informal writing style that quickly drew me into the book. the characters of rosie and tony are bright and interesting as i found myself smiling at their actions. this is a shakespear era book and the references to the playwrite are a little blatant but easily accepted. though the passion ins't white hot, dodd's love scenes are tasteful while still conveying passion between rosy and tony. this is a book i would recommend to any romance reader. it delivers the classic romance with a nice and unexpected twist.	2002-02-21
US	47454700	R211IXK1PT1B1V	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	5	1	1	N	N	a classic fantasy	this book falls into the classic fantasy mold with the young headstrong girl, karigan, on a quest to save family and kingdom. the rich culture and background that britain developes is amazing. the green riders are messangers who risk life and limb to carry out their orders. the characters in this work are beautiful and complex which made me smile as i watched them change at each turn.<br />i would definetly recommend this book for any reader of fantasy but definetly for newbies. though this isn't an epic fantasy series it's light and a fun read and a complete page turner. read on and enjoy with a smile.	2002-01-15
US	47454700	R28Y80DJ904VJ9	0670910236	243779508	Priestess of Avalon (Avalon, Book 4)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	amazing but difficult	if you are reading this amazing series first off let me give you a huge round of applaus for picking an absolutely terrific read. so here we are on the second book in this unique series the priestess of avalon. this book is amazing and once you read it you will never be able to look at books the same way again.<br />the depth to which mrs.bradley went with these characters is astonishing. truthfully this book is a series of stories told over many years of different people with the same souls. vivane and igrane is the last story and a beautiful, heartwrenching story. while i have so much praise for this book beware reader! there are many sections where mbz bogs you down with details and boring tendium. some stories just not interesting and all you can do is sit through it waiting for the great writing to continue.<br />if you can stand a lengthy book with a few patchy spots of boredom and tedium you will be greatly rewarded with several sparkling gems. beware though you are in for a long haul read.	2002-01-15
US	47454700	RCPE99O3B7WG9	0451454243	202730821	The Forest House (The Mists of Avalon: Prequel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	mixed feelings	mists of avalon was one of the first fantasy novels i ever read and has become one of my favorite books so when i found this one i immediately jumped at it. this prequel to mists is a great stories with wonderful characters but some of the elements of the plot are unbelievable and a little convoluted.<br />the story of girl chosen to be the priestess in roman britain who falls in love with a roman soldier and it all flows from there. but if you are looking for a passionate romance novel look elsewhere, because while there is love there is more suffering and deceit and the couple are only in a few chapters together.<br />while i loved this book for the beautiful story it is a little akward and definetly does not measure up to mists. but if you plan to read mists or the priestess of avalon which is the next book in this remarkable series you must read this to follow these amazing characters.	2002-01-14
US	47454700	R33OMM4G7S6TP0	0671877992	394362360	Glenraven	Books	4	6	6	N	N	pretty (...)good	i love marion zimmer bradly and really enjoy her writing style and glenraven was no exception. while this book may not be for hard core fantasy fanatics this is really a very entertainable book with witty, charming characters that often had me laughing and thinking \\"that's just what i'd say.\\"<br />jayjay is a woman watching her third marriage fall apart when she finds a fodor's guide to glenraven, supposedly a small country in europe, and decides that's just the place for her much needed get away. her friend sophie who is still reeling from her daughter's death asks to come along. but glenraven is no small, obscure country in europe, it's another world that's dying because its thousand year old watchmistress is sucking the land dry. these unlikely heroes are like your best friend from high school and you find yourself smiling often throughout this work.<br />it's not a fantasy epic but instead a light hearted read that's just pretty damn good and begs to be read. there is a sequel which i am currently on which follows the same pattern of witty characters. i would definetly advise anyone to give this book a try for something alittle light and fun.	2002-01-14
US	47454700	R2LR5C91BIE51S	0886779960	419535396	Sword and Sorceress XVIII	Books	3	1	2	N	N	good but not the best	i absolutely love the &quot;sword and the sorceress&quot; series for their innovative stories with imaginative plots and innovative stories that are the trade mark of short stories. when i saw this on the book shelf i eargerly snapped it up, thinking i had found another treasure to add to my burgeoning collection but alas that wasn't exactly the case. while mrs. waters did an incredible job of picking up where such a notable author left off i couldn't help feeling this book just didn't rise up to the standards of the rest of the series. <br />many of the stories were written in unimaginative almost base ways. only a few stories really stuck out in my mind. &quot;little rouge riding hood&quot; which struck me as an inventive rip off of xena with the main character playing a t.v. herione who wears leather and does flips and such. it was clever but more a modern day fantasy which are usually left out. <br />the other story that held my attention was &quot;the needed stone.&quot;<BR>it tells the story of a girl who acquires stones in the hope that she can unlock the magic from one of them to help her ailing father and meets stone. he desperately needs her help to rescue his sister from the sorceress compound where she will be made into a thrall. it's not master literature but it is an entertaining story. also as others have reviews &quot;a passage of power&quot; is wonderful, but readers who haven't read the other stories from &quot;sword and the sorceress 15&quot; of bera may find themselve in the dark since the story in referenced quite a bit.<BR>if you can stand about two pages i suggest you read &quot;armagddeon&quot; it a witty farce that made me laugh.<br />a few gems stand out in this book but not enough to make it worth buying. many of the stories are lack luster and after i read them i could only go &quot;ok and what exactly was the point.&quot; the stories like &quot;lesson learned&quot; which has little to no real plot and &quot;the stone wives&quot; which seemed like the retelling of a fable, made me wonder what mrs. waters was thinking when she added them to the line up. if you run across this book in a library with a few hours to kill i would say go for it but i wouldn't pay that much for it.	2001-12-27
US	47454700	R1ABQ19YHU1UZQ	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	absolutely amazing	as anyone can guess from the multitude of other reviewers gushing with praise this is an absolutely amazing book, there is simply no other way to say it. i am an avid fantasy reader but was becoming disappointed with the genre after reading so many awful books with no imagination and the same plot superimposed with different characters. but martin's work brought back my thirst for great books.<br />this is no book with just some all powerful ruler or vilian who wants to either save or rule the world, instead it is a intricate weaving of characters. some people find the countless characters a daunting prospect, DON'T! martin's writing draws you in and after a few chapters you feel like you've known these people all your life.<br />i can't give a summary that would do justice to martin's work. the plot twists that yes, really are twists and completely unexpected, took my breath away. so many writers fall into the rutt of well the obvious next step is this or this, not martin. each turn leaves you breathless and wondering &quot;where did that come from?&quot;<br />one of the greatest things about martin's writing is his characters. there aren't any one dimensional characters here, no purely evil or simply good people appear in &quot;a game of thrones.&quot; you find yourself cheering for the bad guys almost as much as you are cheering for the helpless victim.<br />please, please give this book a whirl. anyone who can't find the joy in reading this book doesn't know good literature when it hits them in the head. give it a try. the next two books are out and don't follow the typical sequel slumps, if anything they are better!	2001-12-23
US	47454700	R3S9N603E904UV	031287717X	284373444	The Wayfarer Redemption, Book 1	Books	4	0	1	N	N	a great book, but....	like most of the books i read i picked this one just because it was there. as i read i grew to really love this book but i couldn't help being disappointed when douglass's wonderful originality would be stiffled by incredibly predictable turns. suspense never lasted long as all conflicts were revealed quickly and most solved.  <br />   the story of axis, the head of an elite fighting group is thrown for a wild ride as he discovers that the foundations that his faith was placed on are false, lies made up long ago. he learns who his father is and of the iicari and avar and of faraday. a noble's daughter who has more to do with a mysterious prophecy, foretelling the end of all under gorgael the destroyer, than anyone could ever have imagined.<br />    i would suggest this book to anyone who likes fantasy as a classic example of a sweeping epic. i loved this book, it's minor short comings so far out weighed by the sheer complexity of characters and orginality in each new twist that i am drooling for the second book. but unlike the australians, us americans have to wait until the next book makes it's way to bookstore shelves.	2001-11-09
US	47454700	R166HQNZ5BED2S	0446609846	77070899	A Shadow on the Glass (View from the Mirror)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a great book ...hoping for a great series	as seems to be the ultimate irony of life almost every book that is a series was first printed in australia first and together or so long ago they are all out now. the only book out in the good old u.s.a is \\"a shadow on the glass\\" i thought this book was smart, inventive and highly orginal. the only complaint i have is the inconsistent detail. there are parts of this book where irvine describes everything to perfection, down to the herione's, karan, fiery red locks. but on the flip of that there are times when nothing more than dialouge and movement are written. before anyone screams a fit hear me out, the last scene of the book is a prime example. no i am not going to give it away but like every other vital scene in the book key elements are left out. a courtroom is filled with people but people are suddenly just next to someone, there is no explanation of why anything is happening, it just does.<br /> this annoyed me since the less crucial scenes were described in exquisite detail. i love this book and will read the following. i recommend this book but be prepared to read a few passages over again to try and gleam out what exactly just happened.	2001-11-09
US	47454700	R22C17I0H5B3A5	0451458508	893895971	The Pillars of the World (Tir Alainn Trilogy)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	so, so	i picked this book up on a whim and was enthralled with it...to a point. i will not deny that anne bishop is a wonderful author and the writing in this book is superb but there was little to no plot. the fae world is disappearing as the shinning roads to the human world close. the only clue as to why this is all happening are vague mentionings of the pillars of the world. the story more acutely centers around ari, a young witch trying to live by herself near a road to the fae world. <br />though i love the characters i found the story flat. while promising an interesting story in the beginning \\"pillars of the world\\" fizzles out as page after page describes horses and the mundane tasks every single character preforms. i kept reading, wondering when the action would start, when the intrigue, when anything would start but every conflict is solved quickly, wrapped in a nice, neat little package that left me feeling cheated. There were struggles all over the place; between ari's lover and potential lover, between the witches and the witch's hammer, between the fae and the humans etc. but nothing ever happens. <BR> i liked this book but it would not rate on my list of the greatest ever written. if you need alittle more meat in your reading check to her other books.	2001-11-09
US	47454700	RX1G7X5ER4Z62	0812545591	472694614	The Soprano Sorceress: The First Book of the Spellsong Cycle	Books	3	0	2	N	N	dissappointment!	i was intrigued by the blurb on the back cover enough to look past the ridiculous cover art and completely embaressing name only to find a book with whimpy one dimensional characters. besdies describing the heat and every meal the main character eats the books isn't much more. the reader is badgered to death with stupid and immaterial facts that do nothing for the plot and i find myself avoiding this book. characters come and go and i feel no connection with any of them. pick another book when rummaging through the bookstore shelf rather than just picking one up like i did. this is a dissappointing read that will have you wondering why you ever starting reading in the first place/	2001-07-14
US	47454700	RPIBQ1C4BOCTN	0553290797	708570454	Black Trillium (Trillium Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	alittle more than so, so	While I must admit this book had some fantastic points in it I was anticipating action and while the build up was fantastic it was a let down in the end when everything was resolved in about 25-30 pages after a long build up. I normally shy away from books written in sections switching between characters right when it gets interesting. This book held my attention vividly and though vague in some places other than the slight let down of the end and the fact that some elements of the plot were blatanly expected I found this book quite good.	2001-07-14
US	47454700	R37MNNC8IXXO5G	0886778425	59109444	The Granite Shield (Branion series, Book 3)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	i was disappointed	maybe i was spoiled since my frist fantasy books were marion zimmer bradley's &quot;the mists of avalon.&quot; and george r. r. martin's &quot;a song of fire and ice&quot; series but i found this book written on such a base level that after about five pages i was bored. though like everyone else i found the non-gender based society refreshing and interesting i quickly began to ignore the lengthy titles and descriptions of every minor character. the plot and many of the aspects were intrigueing but i felt like i was reading a book for some junior high school student. to many things are blatanly pointed out and no subtley is afford in mrs. patton's work. instead of easing observations into the context of the story she stops everything to describes the page boy who just walked in down to his shoelaces.      though from the other reviews i have read i am led to believe that the &quot;painter prince&quot; and her other works are much better i was sourly dissappointed by this work. i will give her credit though before i leave off for her original and highly detailed concepts, though by the second half of the book i just stop trying to figure out who the hell was who. one last note is the that though i am all for the bisexuality and gay reltaionships the casual but yet almost forced way they are placed in the book is irritating. mrs.patton mentions how the meeting with so and so went and the last two lines go something like...&quot;oh yeah and the two guys had sex.&quot; i say if you are anything near a sophisticated reader go for bradley or martin but if you are just exploring the genre this is still a fairly descent read.	2001-07-14
US	47454700	R10A99MKP04MEM	0886776686	982596913	The Ruins of Ambrai (Exiles, Vol. 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a must read	I found this book out of the blue when I needed something to read on one of my very long and frequent road trips and at random picked this book up and was enthralled by it. The characters are amazing in the way they are so different. The social reversal of roles with women as the more powerful of the sexes was interesting and in my opinion very original. The scenes of desert and lush countryside mixed with scenes of courtlife are intricate but don't get you bogged down and rawn realizes that most readers are smart enough to take subtle hints when they are given.<br />      My only qualm with this wonderful book is that the second book is almost a compulsion to read as you desperately want to find out what happens to these characters you have come to know so well and you are let down. The second book in my opinion was completely one dimensional with only a few shinning moments. If you can live without the second book definetly do for this book. It is a must.	2001-07-14
US	47454700	R11JJLL0GUCRBI	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	the most amazing book ever	i mistakenly read this book first and recently finished the first in the series and i have truly never read anything its equal. many say the numerous characters are to complicated for enjoyment but that simply increases the depth. i usually hate book written from many different points of view generally because each point of view tells the same section of the story over and over again in nearly the same voice, not so in martin's work. i found it amazing to the depths which he changes each character and constantly keeps you on your toes.        one thing i truly hate of books is he iron hard template many seem to follow with the damsielle to rescue and blah, blah, blah. martin enthralls you. it can't be put more simply. his descriptions of battles are wonderful, and this coming from a person who normally skips over the battle scenes. he doesn't leave anything out as his plot develops. instead of wondering how one character got there he tells you but never assumes you are so dumb as to need to be explained everythin. the thought provoking characters and creative style make even the most novice reader expect more from any writing. i would highly reccomend this to anyone. but read them in order! :)	2001-06-02
US	47454700	R3A0T4TJPMPEAE	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	6	6	N	N	never read a book like this	i have never read a book that so drew me into the so called &quot;bad character&quot; i knew the original myth of pysche and cupid but this truly does not focus on pyshce but instead on her &quot;ugly&quot; sister. the trials she goes through as she changes from a scared child to a queen is fascinating. the beautiful phrases lewis uses are aw inspiring as his eloquence is put forth for all to view. i would recommend this book for anyone who needs something other than mindless mush. it's beautiful and heartbreaking all in the same stroke and you sob with and for each character, definetly a great book and a complete classic. ( one finally not exclusively for english teachers, instead it's for their tortured students looking for something past the scarlet letter) :)	2001-04-17
US	47454700	RH1PYYHF2P89Y	0380775123	510485680	Tiger Burning Bright	Books	2	10	13	N	N	a few good details	this book had me bored to tears. i literally threw this book down a few times wondering when things were going to culminate? everything is tediously described three times by three different characters. three generations of a royal family are seen through three women of this royal house; the old queen, the middle aged heir and the young princess. in that it's pretty standard but instead of moving this story, which at its heart is wonderful, every scene is retold through each character's eyes with barely any variance. <br />this story of a kingdom threatened by an invading emperor who lusts for conquest sounded pretty interesting to me. his son, who the reader finds quickly is really loving and wishes for peace, is in this kingdom to help conqueror it. the three main characters, through who the story is told, are the queen, the heir and the young princess. the queen is aging and must pass on the throne but cannot when they are all forced to flee into hiding by the invaders. this summary is brief but the story is closely connected with the characters and i don't want to hand out to many teasers.<br />at the begginning of the book i was intrigued by the idea of this mystical kingdom with hidden secrets and mysterious rituals  but by the third chapter i was wondering when something was going to happen to already. &quot;tiger burning bright&quot; hints that angels may play a very important role but then abruptly ignores the subject leaving the reader wondering why the lengthy description if they play no real role? <br />chapter after chapter is devoted to what every character is thinking, feeling, wearing and what they plan to do but never actually do. build up is all well and go and i am a never ending fan of suspense, holding it as critical part of a story but between three authors one would think that all this suspense was leading somewhere. <br />the long awaited ending was something i wouldn't call overly original, reading instead like some trashy romance novel. i knew who would end up with who by the fifth chapter and kept wondering when it would happen already. though many like the story line and i found i liked certain scenes or detail/ideas in the book overall i found it a dissappointing if not completely tiresome read.	2000-12-30
US	47454700	RQW2W09295848	0886777437	977495914	The Shadow Matrix (Darkover)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	a halfway amazement	i've loved marion zimmer bradley since i read the &quot;mists of avalon&quot; and i read &quot;exile's song&quot; and loved it but found this one some what dissappointing. i had to literally tredge through the first half of the book. mikhail hastur's little trip to that spooky manor had no point and i found myself bored with each passing page wondering when he and our heroine were going to get together. though the secong half had me simply whipping through the pages and provided much more information i think that marguerdia's point of view was ten times more interesting but we were always religated to mikhail's boring, tediously detailed movements. i still recommend this book as good though alittle slow in getting started. it truly is good!	2000-12-30
