US	47468238	RVHF7Y3DRF5BZ	0691116253	784732871	Hubbert's Peak: The Impending World Oil Shortage	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A BOOK ABOUT ENERGY THAT EVERYONE SHOULD READ	Are you concerned about the current oil and gasoline prices? Do you want to understand what will happen in the future with energy and our standard of living?  Then you must read this book. And you will learn that in 1956 a geologist working for Shell Oil, M. King Hubbert, made a prediction (in a paper titled \\"Nuclear Energy and the Fossil Fuels\\"). Hubbert then  predicted that all U.S. oil production would peak in the early 1970s. At the beginning, all the experts and gurus discarded this men's prediction. But he was right, because U.S. oil production peaked out in 1970. Afterwards, mainly in the 1990s, geologists, oil engineers and analysts began referring to Hubbert's Peak, and using his methods to estimate the peak year for word oil. That is to say, at what point humanity will have consumed half of all world oil endowment, which took hundred of million of years to accumulate. A point that only takes 100 years to reach since oil production started ..... If the actual predictions are correct ( Hubbert's curve is not longer debatable; pending issue is the correct peak year, now estimated to be between 2007 and 2012) the implications for world economy, oil prices, the premises of occidental civilization, will be devastating. So, even if you are not  into oil, gas or energy, I consider this book to be of mandatory reading to better understand the workings of the energy world, and dismiss certain current  myths, like the  possibility of expanding oil production radically through new  methods; drilling deeper or in new places. The author of this book, Professor Kenneth Deffeyes, Professor Emeritus at Princeton University, is highly qualified to take you on a fascinating ride, which will qualify non experts to better understand all the factors involved in oil production and future possibilities. Reader will comprehend the origins of oil; what are reservoirs and oil traps; how does one find oil; what are the products that derive from oil, and how do they impact our current lives; how do you drill for oil and extract it; where and when can you discover an oil field. Better yet, this book will leave you in a position to better assess the future of fossil fuels, and certain realities about much discussed, but seldom understood, alternative energy sources. Congrats to Professor Deffeyes, for preaching a clear and understandable energy Gospel. He has proven his worth, as an ex fellow worker of Magister Hubbert, when he started his personal journey, back in the 1950s, at Shell's research lab in Houston....lives; how do you drill for oil and extract it; where and when can you discover an oil field. Better yet, this book will leave you in a position to better assess the future of fossil fuels, and certain realities about much discussed, but seldom understood, alternative energy sources. Congrats to Professor Deffeyes, for preaching a clear and understandable energy Gospel. He has proven his worth, as an ex fellow worker of Magister Hubbert, when he started his personal journey, back in the 1950s, at Shell's research lab in Houston....	2005-10-07
US	47468238	RLBNUMMDFYXKI	0140441697	325539792	Fourteen Byzantine Rulers: The Chronographia of Michael Psellus (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	THE REAL DEAL ABOUT 11th CENTURY BYZANTIUM	Fine edition of an oft forgotten (but indeed important) opus in Byzantine literature and history. The author, Michael Psellus (1018-1078 A.D.), born of an aristocratic family, was a pupil of John Mauropous (Archbishop of Euchaita), became Professor of Rhetoric and then, after being introduced to the court by Michael V, rose to be a first hand spectator of the rise and demise of several emperors, having occupied the posts of Secretary of State, Prime Minister and Grand Chamberlain. This explains why this is a valuable memoir of a contemporary witness to Byzantine life and the workings of the imperial court, under several rulers, from the reign of Basil II (976-1025) to the reign of Michael VII (1071-1078). Originally published as the first whole translation in English of Psellus work in 1953, under the title The Cronographia of Michael Psellus , this revised edition is a wonderful tool for those interested in Byzantine history. The scarce or relative interest that occurred in the field of Byzantine literature until a century ago, compared to the classical period, comprehensive of Greek and Roman history up to the reign of Justinian, has been surpassed due to the fine work of several modern scholars. But it has been clearly noticed that in addition to the well known classical works of  Procopius, Menander Protector and Leo Diaconos, this opus by Psellus is unsurpassed or unique for the study of the period covered by the author. Indeed, he was in a position to fully comprehend the events that occurred at the death of Basil II (who ruled for more than 40 years, crushed rebellions, rescued the Empire's army, finances and pride ) in 1078, and the particular decadence that ensued in the following generations due to the unworthiness of the following rulers. So we must concur with the appreciation of  Professor Joan Hussey, who wrote the introduction to the second edition of this opus in English, in the sense that Psellus was one man who comprehended the decay in the Empire's fortunes around the eleventh century as a turning point, and that although the Cronographia may give sometimes the impression of vagueness (compared to the works of Cedrenus or Zonaras) it has a colour and variety rarely found in any of its rivals. Not in vain Professor Hussey concludes that Psellus dedication to philosophy was life long and that his contribution to revive classicl learning was truly important:-Renaissance authors owed much to this man-<br /><br />For scholars or those generally interested in  Byzantine history, mores and decadence, the Cronographia is a must.s fortunes around the eleventh century as a turning point, and that although the Cronographia may give sometimes the impression of vagueness (compared to the works of Cedrenus or Zonaras) it has a colour and variety rarely found in any of its rivals. Not in vain Professor Hussey concludes that Psellus dedication to philosophy was life long and that his contribution to revive classicl learning was truly important:-Renaissance authors owed much to this man- <br />For scholars or those generally interested in  Byzantine history, mores and decadence, the Cronographia is a must.   <br />	2005-09-21
US	47468238	RI5R2H4ZZV5D	0393003884	199830153	The Invasion of Europe by the Barbarians	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The barbarization of the Roman Empire; a refreshing resume	A clear introduction to the period of the barbarian invasions that led to important transformations of the Roman Empire, paved the way to its dismemberment, and started the transition from roman to medieval Europe, from A. D. 247 until the fifth century. From the historical perspective, of importance is the insistence of the author on the gradual encroachment of Barbarism upon Romanism during this period. The author, Professor Bury, was appointed (in 1902) successor to Lord Acton as holder of the Chair of Modern History at the University of Cambridge. A reputed scholar, he is well known for his illustrated edition of Gibbon's  Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire (1909) as well as  his own seminal works Constitution of the Later Roman Empire (1910) and History of the Roman Empire (1923).<br /><br />Not envisioned by Bury originally as a book, this is an ensemble of lectures given by him at the University (and edited by Professor Hearnshaw, from King's College at the University of London).  This vivid excursion through the \\"barbarization\\" of the Empire, starts with a reference to the early German history and Gothic migrations. Then an account of the first invasions of the Goths in the third century follows, with a description of the Visigothic invasion of Dacia and  the Ostrogothic settlements. According to Bury it is during the third century that the extension and heterogeneity of the Roman Empire led to a natural tendency of the parts of this huge empire to fall asunder. Two great subdivisions appeared- a western or Latin section and an eastern or Greek section. The emperor Diocletian was convinced that the empire was too extended to be ruled by one emperor and so he concocted a scheme to put it under two coequal emperors. This system was unsuccessful and it was abandoned after 150 years by Constantine. But it led to the decisive act of the foundation of a second Rome at Constantinople in A.D. 330. Bury presents an interesting overview of the much discussed issue of the size of the forces of the empire and of the barbarians during this period, as well as  the general factors of the penetration of the Germanic element in the population of the empire. The advent of the Huns is a momentous event, because it forced the Visigoths into roman space, leading thereafter to the disastrous battle of Hadrianopole (well described by Ammianus Marcellinus) and the death of emperor Valens. From there, we follow the efforts of emperor Theodosius to deal with the Gothic problem pursuing a policy of conciliation and friendship with Alaric the Bold.<br /><br />But at the death of Theodosius, Alaric, then elected king of the Visigoths turned against the empire. And he turned to the West, in events that led to the sack of Rome and the invasion of Gaul. And so professor Bury's refreshing narration takes us to the following episodes of this dramatic saga: The death of Alaricus; the Visigothic  Kingdom of Toulouse; the invasion of the Vandals in Spain and in Africa; the Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain; the Hunnic invasion of Italy; the decline of the roman power in the west; the Ostrogothic conquest of Italy; and the Lombard invasion of Italy.<br /><br />For its freshness and clarity, this book is highly recommended as a first approach to the study of the complex structural problems that led to the dissolution of the great Roman Empire.size of the forces of the empire and of the barbarians during this period, as well as  the general factors of the penetration of the Germanic element in the population of the empire. The advent of the Huns is a momentous event, because it forced the Visigoths into roman space, leading thereafter to the disastrous battle of Hadrianopole (well described by Ammianus Marcellinus) and the death of emperor Valens. From there, we follow the efforts of emperor Theodosius to deal with the Gothic problem pursuing a policy of conciliation and friendship with Alaric the Bold. <br />But at the death of Theodosius, Alaric, then elected king of the Visigoths turned against the empire. And he turned to the West, in events that led to the sack of Rome and the invasion of Gaul. And so professor Bury's refreshing narration takes us to the following episodes of this dramatic saga: The death of Alaricus; the Visigothic  Kingdom of Toulouse; the invasion of the Vandals in Spain and in Africa; the Anglo-Saxon conquest of Britain; the Hunnic invasion of Italy; the decline of the roman power in the west; the Ostrogothic conquest of Italy; and the Lombard invasion of Italy. <br />For its freshness and clarity, this book is highly recommended as a first approach to the study of the complex structural problems that led to the dissolution of the great Roman Empire. <br /> <br />	2005-08-29
US	47468238	R2XFH77R6BYOK1	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A MASTERFUL CONTRIBUTION	Some previous reviewers have complained about  the complex style and writing of this book. Although in fact it is not an easily readable book, for the general public, if you have a serious interest about the history of the third Reich, make no mistake: you will not be able to overlook this book, which will surely be a  classic. It is a thoroughly well researched  contribution about the connection between religious beliefs and mass fanaticism; the interaction between the \\"new\\" domestic and international values, based on aggression; and the other causes involved in the rise (and fall) of the III Reich. From a different perspective from other mainstream historians, this winner of the Samuel Johnson prize for non fiction,  has accomplished quite an original scholarly feat, one which will enlighten the comprehension of this particular  period of history. No wonder many international critics have found the subtitle of this  opus  -A new History- particularly well deserved. Of great interest is the chapter related with the demise of the rule of law, a thorough analysis of the penetration  of the judiciary and the subordination of the police and government to the totalitarian Fuhrerprinzip.	2003-12-15
US	47468238	R2Z0EGPGGLSP9F	0195165543	990291164	In the Interests of Justice: Reforming the Legal Profession	Books	5	2	3	N	N	DISCOVERING THE FLAWS IN  LEGAL PRACTICE	A very interesting diagnostic of the major flaws in the U.S. legal system, by Deborah L. Rhode, Professor of Law at Stanford Law School. Well written, this book unveils many of the fundamental reasons for the perception that the public at large has of the lawyers and their trade..... The chapters titled Lawyers and their discontent, The advocate's role in the adversary system, and the Regulation of the profession, are truly revealing  vis a vis the current problems that plague legal practice. Professor's Rhode  suggestions as to possible solutions towards a betterment of the workings of the legal system are thought provoking.<br />The funny thing about this book, is that you can extrapolate many of the revelations about the rocky road of legal education and the structural problems that now affect legal firms in the U.S., to other legal systems, outside the common law area..... So, even as a mirror of the flaws and shared problems that affect the legal profession in other countries, such as the commercialization of practice and the underestimation of ethical standards in favor of lawyer's economic self interest, this book is recommended reading.	2003-12-15
US	47468238	R7WGBASP66MOA	0192803395	318432352	Making Sense: Philosophy behind the Headlines	Books	5	11	13	N	N	THE PHILOSOPHY BEHIND CURRENT CENTRAL ISSUES	Julian Baggini,  editor of The Philosopher's Magazine, has written a wonderful contribution, for  the layman. One that enables us to easily understand, from a practical standpoint, the  central issues of modern philosophy. This is a very well written and readable book. It dwells with the concepts and meaning of  war, morality, faith, truth, amongst other, from a philosopher's perspective. At the same time, the author clearly teaches how everybody can utilize the techniques of the philosophers in order to better grasp the meaning of the issues that  invade the mind of the human being in these confuse times. Who should read this book ? Anybody concerned about the problems we find reflected and discussed in the media everyday. Drugs, science, nature, moral relativism are discussed in a manner that truly reflects the effort made by the author to dismiss the \\"nonsense talked about the relationship between philosophy and the concerns of real life\\" (Introduction) . So, if you are after a fresh approach to the relationship between philosophy and the central issues of our society, this is a book you would not want to overlook.......	2003-11-17
US	47468238	R32JNAY3IC4NMW	1580084168	646098066	Afghanistan: A Russian Soldier's Story	Books	5	8	8	N	N	ANOTHER STUPID BUT PAINFUL CONFLICT.......	A truly moving personal account about the War in Afghanistan by Vladimir  Tamarov,  born in 1965 in Leningrad, who served twenty months in that conflict.  The many faces  of evil in war, the coming of age from boy to man, the senseless killing of human beings, are topics that powerfully emerge from Tamarov's \\"diary of war\\".  The book contains truly interesting photographs which tell a  tale  of haunted faces, fear, beautiful landscapes, the quiet moments of relaxation before doom and mayhem, camaraderie, that visually transport you to that nonsensical conflict.<br />The pictures captions come from  the author's war diary. They reach, at times, powerful lyrical  levels when dwelling about the central issues of the \\"personal experience of participation\\" in war. But at the end, the revelations about the  stupidly conceived privileges of the brass, the manipulation of the gun ho adrenaline of  the young soldiers, the doubts about the sense and rightness of the fight , the telling dreams about the  horror of the annihilation of the innocents, all fade away.<br />Only the ultimate reflection of the fighting soldier, in all the wars that have been fought, remains, with detailed form. You are there only to survive and protect  the guy next to you in the foxhole, the only one who really cares about you when the bullets are flying around.  The most difficult and daunting times in the life of a young man, who has fought as a soldier and survived to tell the tale,  are here, poignantly, but at the same time with  sad detachment, recalled in a manner that will make you think profoundly about the banality of war.  Kudos to the author for this inspired personal diary, about his experience in Afghanistan. A review by your friend Luciano Lupini.	2003-11-13
US	47468238	R5R16F5HP3OYP	0060915153	186661791	Why Do Clocks Run Clockwise? And Other Imponderables	Books	3	5	7	N	N	TRULY SUBSTANTIAL FOR A BETTER LIFE.........	A funny little book, filled with trivia information that will show you how to live a happier and more balanced life.....For instance, you will never again have to go to the psychiatrist to discuss your frustration, about your inability to understand things like: Why have humans lost most of their body hair? Why are hamburger bun-bun bottoms so thin? Why do doughnuts have holes? For a relatively small sum, you will get rid of tranquillizers, since you will not awake anymore in the middle of the night, wondering about: Why don't people get goosebumps on their faces? Why are there eighteen holes on a golf course? What happens with the tread that wears off tires?<br />Last but not least, this fact filled book, will enable you to settle all those boring, but potentially dangerous arguments with your couple about delicate issues such as: Does putting women's hosiery in the freezer forestall runs? What purpose do wisdom teeth serve? Why does Coca-Cola from a small bottle taste better than Coca-Cola from a large bottle or can?<br />So, rush now, if you really want to know why clocks run clockwise.Or not, if you have other, existencialistic (real), problems......	2003-09-17
US	47468238	R2KWZQKO7HZFXR	0141009217	752667047	The Penguin Dictionary of Modern Humorous Quotations (Reference)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A  CONVERSATION PIECE........	Alas!  A good reason for you not to buy any of those joke books. Instead, acquire this wonderful recollection of funny phrases actually said or written........ Suggested to  witty quotation fans, of course, but  a must  for those that don't possess humor but do have a good memory !!!!! A compilation of hilarious phrases, edited by Fred Metcalf that will not let you down, in any argument or discussion. Good to break the ice, superb to outwit your opponent, it is the perfect tool to keep at bay the drama, in heavier conversations.  Talking to the pretentious literati or author, you get to say: \\"A good writer is not, per se, a good critic. No more than a good drunk is automatically a good bartender...\\" If  he  replies: \\"Critics are like eunuchs in a harem: they know how it's done, they've seen it done every day, but they're unable to do it themselves\\" then you can say: \\"I never read a book before reviewing it- it prejudices a man so....\\" and  then add: \\"Thank you for sending me a copy of your book. I'll waste no time in reading it...\\"	2003-06-25
US	47468238	R32UM6D9F4IGM4	1570621462	234046211	River of Stars: Selected Poems of Yosano Akiko	Books	5	5	6	N	N	AKIKO'S PASSION, SENSIBILITY and HUMANITY REVEALED	A wonderful compilation of poems, well translated by Sam Hamill  and Keiko Matsui,  illustrated by Stephen Addiss, written by the \\"goddess of poetry\\", Yosano Akiko (1878-1942).  In the introduction, there is a brief description of the life of this wonderful woman poet. There we learn that she was the epitome of early twentieth century Japanese feminism, social reform and romanticism. The poet was so noted by her peers, that her era is referred to as the Age of Akiko. Born out of a family of poets and literati, she was initially despised by her father, who sought a  male son. Afterwards, her father gave her the best available education and supported her fully. Her life was full of adversities and triumphs, and her love story with a romantic womanizer poet, Yosano Hiroshi (pen name Tekkan) reminds me, in a way, of Frida Kahlo's relationship with Diego Rivera. Proficient in modern occidental literature, she can be seen, in the context of her times, as a modernist poet; the first in Japanese history to criticize openly the emperor. Throughout the poems written in tanka form,  compiled in this edition, we can perceive and feel her struggle to look directly into the heart and reveal the complexity of the human being, as well as the hues of  erotic, spiritual and familial love. There are also some modern style poems which confirm, again the genius and sensibility of the greatest 20th century woman poet of Japan.<br />\\"Raindrops continue<br />to fall on white lotus leaves.<br />While my lover paints<br />I open the umbrella<br />on his little boat.....\\" Long live Akiko!	2003-06-23
US	47468238	R19C4TTVO6E83M	0415187206	728902832	Philosophy: Basic Readings	Books	5	7	7	N	N	WONDERFUL AND USABLE SELECTION	A truly wonderful selection of readings about philosophy and philosophy's central issues by professor Nigel Warburton. Very highly recommended for those that want to enhance their knowledge and have a better understanding of the basic topics that torture human mind, without having to yawn and dwell with dull or inextricable texts, as it happens with other anthologies, of a more complex and ambitious structure (which usually remain unread). This compilation  indeed lives up to the purpose that the author set up to accomplish, as it is set forth in the Preface:  \\"My aim has been to select writing that will repay study, and which is, above all interesting. Part of the point of this anthology is to demonstrate philosophy in action..\\"<br />The book is divided in eight parts, if you count the Introduction about the topic \\"What is Philosophy ?\\", as one. Here,  scope, method and value of P. are presented through writings by Warnock, Mellor,Ayer and the Earl Russell. Then the subject of God, its existence and the discussion about the proofs of God is left to the writings of Pascal, Gardner, Mackie, Swinburne, Hume and Dawkins. Another section deals with ethics and morals, titled \\"Wright and Wrong\\". Other sections dwell with the subjects of Politics, The External World, Science, the Mind and, finally,  Art. Each section has a brief and balanced introduction by the author. Here, again, he accomplishes the task of setting the basic mainframe to aid the reader, and refrains from providing a resume  that, in other anthologies,  enables the reader to dispense with the reading of the material itself.....<br />This selection can be read with relative ease and constitutes a fresh  and modern approach to the divulgation of philosophy. Kudos to professor Warburton ! As reviewed by Luciano Lupini.	2003-05-26
US	47468238	RTPD7NPT1YDIK	0394402294	301838580	The Discoverers:  A History of Man's Search to Know His World and Himself	Books	5	87	92	N	N	A PRECIOUS DISCOVERY	A truly wonderful book. One that should be used as a textbook in History in high school. Easily readable, it takes the reader on a voyage of far reaching proportions. What is it that makes this book so pleasurable and instructive? A fresh approach to the evolution of knowledge and science as experienced historically by the pioneers. The exploration in retrospective of the discovery of the concept of time and the clock, the compass, the telescope, the microscope and the evolutionary description of the knowledge that mankind acquired through these instruments and the bold steps of the pioneers that wondered  around the seas, the cosmos, the mind, etc..  Why is it that modern culture, the different cultures and science are the way they are ? You will find a lot of answers about how this came to happen in the book by the former Librarian of Congress and senior historian of the Smithsonian Institution.<br />After I read this book, the promise made in  the Washington Post Book World's review to it,  I found fulfilled: \\"few indeed will be the readers who do not themselves become discoverers.....\\" This book is one of the most outstanding discoveries that I made in my quest for knowledge. You must not  overlook it.	2003-02-01
US	47468238	R9QEXP1CHFJ78	0140441824	961689350	Procopius: The Secret History (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	58	62	N	N	NOT SO HOLY AN EMPEROR ?	This is a  good translation of Procopius  most controversial opus,  by  G.A.Williamson, Senior Master of Classics at Norwich School (from 1922 to 1960). Whilst The Histories and Buildings are recognized as Procopius  politically correct works, The Secret History tells a stunning tale of greed, corruption and destruction under Justinian and Theodora's empire.<br />Undoubtedly Procopius (A.D. 500?-565) was a qualified witness (having been private secretary to the greatest of Byzantium generals, Belisarius), although modern historians are at odds with the contradictions between what he wrote before and after this History, and still wonder what  true motivations lie at the bottom of this work. But in my opinion, for anyone interested in a different , more private,  assessment of Justinian and Theodora's deeds and character, this is a book that requires to be read. With caution, but with interest.<br /> The architect of the Corpus Juris Civilis, the Codex Constructionum and the Digest, normally viewed as a \\"great conqueror, a great lawgiver, a great diplomat, and a great builder\\" (J.B. Bury) is screened in its defects by the author. The History mainly revolves around Justinian, Theodora, Belisarius and Antonina, their deeds, defects and personal motivations.<br /> Justinian is portraited as a man of infinite greed and vicious cruelty. Theodora is exposed as a harlot, with a mind perpetually fixed upon inhumanity, constantly meddling in the affairs of the state.........<br />But let's not spoil the juicy tidbits. Let me just say that after one sorts out the mess created by this book,  a more clear picture of the causes of the  demise of the Roman Empire, the workings of the Imperial Court under Justinian and corruption of the mores will remain.	2003-02-01
US	47468238	R2G6QY2FLIQ88K	0815410816	841140230	Mussolini: A Biography	Books	2	5	8	N	N	SHALLOW  AND SUBJECTIVE	This is not  a comprehensive biography of Mussolini the man and politician. More a fragmentary  story of the life of M. The process of ascension to power, the conversion of the socialist into the fascist,  and the politics of the first ten years of consolidation are not really explored in their depth, as is now expected from a Duce's biography.<br />Moreover there are considerable gaps in the treatment of the pre-war years and the foundation of the Empire. Also, there are many subjective statements and personal appraisals of the author that do not correspond with the objective view of the modern historians about Mussolini. For instance, his position regarding the jewish question and the racial laws, is not objectively assessed, in its historical context. Also, Salo's period and Mussolini's uncomfortable relationship with the germans are not satisfactorily  analyzed. For a more balanced and comprehensive one volume approach I would recommend professor Richard  Bosworth's Biography of Mussolini. For truly in depth study, Renzo De Felice's books remain unsurpassed.	2003-01-28
US	47468238	R3EG3Q1Q0LHATH	1565840399	418055365	Japan at War: An Oral History	Books	5	68	74	N	N	A FASCINATING PERSPECTIVE FROM THE OTHER SIDE	A remarkable tour through the Japanese war in China in the 1930s, the salvage man to man combats in the Pacific islands, the horrific bombings of Tokyo, Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the aftermath of a totally devastating war on the psyche of the Japanese people.<br />Haruko Taya and Theodore Cook have done a remarkable reconstruction of this story, through the testimonies of  the \\"other\\" protagonists.<br />One cannot came out of this tour,  but with another perspective about the motivations and commitment of the people who fought or endured the destruction of this war, from the Japanese side. Common people and soldiers,  willing to pay the ultimate price in order to defend their patriotic and religious believes, give a different, individual, impression from the one we derive from the  analysis of  the motivations of the War Lords and the militaristic complex in Tokyo.<br />Some fascinating facts are confirmed in this book . We have the story of  private Tanisuga Shizuo, gas soldier in China from 1937, candidly telling some truths about the use of poison gas in that front. Now he is seeking compensation from the Japanese Government for the injuries he suffered while making poison gas during the war........ Tominaga  Shozo gives a  truthful account of the training of soldiers in China. That training included the practice of the proper technique to use the sword to decapitate live prisoners. Also, the last stage of conscript training required him to bayonet a living human, in order to condition soldiers to kill without remorse or hesitation during combat.  The book  contains some foggy accounts about certain events, like the story told by  Tanida Isamu, staff officer in the 10th Army, during the period of the rape of Nanking (self denyal?) about the appalling number of civilians killed in the incident.<br />But the balance is surely positive, if you consider the moving stories of sacrifice told by  the people in the Homeland, and  the individual  mystical motivations  of the soldiers engaged in Special Attacks.<br />A revealing book, which I consider required reading for those interested in the War in Asia.ldiers engaged in Special Attacks.<BR>A revealing book, which I consider required reading for those interested in the War in Asia.	2002-12-16
US	47468238	R20QA65043QEOY	0811208206	152745382	Women Poets of Japan	Books	5	13	13	N	N	VERY HELPFUL  INTRODUCTION TO JAPANESE POETRY	A delightful and handy compilation of works from japanese women poets, from K. Rexroth, the author of the book One Hundred Poems from the Japanese,  with the cooperation of Ikuko Atsumi.<br />A must for those interested in a general overview of Japanese poetry, this little jewel shines with the light of the Classic poets (from Princess Nukada, 7th Century, to Abutsu-ni, A.D.1209-1283). A sample:<br />\\"I fell asleep thinking of him,<br />\\"And he came to me.<br />\\"If I had known it was only a dream<br />\\"I would have never awakened...\\". (Ono No Komachi, 9th Century)<br />Then we get a good sample of the Tokugawa  Haiku poets, from the 16th  to the 18th Centuries, as well as Modern Tanka and Haiku poets.<br />The book also provides a view of the modern free verse poets of Japan and, finally, some anonymous Geisha songs, such as:<br />\\"From the dream  where we made love<br />my laughter called me back<br />and I searched all around me<br />my eyes full of tears.......\\"<br />Finally the book ends with helpful biographical notes about the poets and a basic survey of Japanese poetry and the influence of the women poets.<br />Very highly recommended to those that want an  introduction to the wonderful Japanese poems, which are timeless..........	2002-12-16
US	47468238	R378QJPQV40M5H	0760700672	713204971	The Devils of Loudun	Books	5	39	42	N	N	HELL ON EARTH: THE MARTYRDOM OF A POLITICAL SINNER	This is a very well researched historical account of hell in this world, by the author of the better  known opus Brave New World and The Doors of Perception of Heaven and Hell.<br />The historical situation  of the Catholic Church and the Jesuits, the politics in France during the 17th Century, the downfall of the Huguenots, all constitute the fabric were  the personal drama and martyrdom of father Urbain Grandier are sewn.<br />POLITICAL BACKGROUND: Cardinal Richelieu is directing the policy of France, during the reign of Louis XIII. After Richelieu convinces the King that self-government of small provincial towns must end, the feudal nobility lose their independence by an edict calling for the destruction of their castles and walls, whilst the Hughenots are being crushed by force. One of these towns is Loudun, where the priest (a Jesuit) is Urbain Grandier, an intellectual  priest of 35, that knows the meaning and consequences of the edict calling for the destruction of the fortified walls of Loudun. Consequently, when Laubardemont, an agent of the Cardinal Richelieu arrives in the town, he is confronted and stopped by Grandier.<br />GRANDIER'S VICES: Father Grandier is strikingly handsome and a sensualist. His vows of celibacy have not prevented him from fathering a bastard child with the daughter of Trincant, the town magistrate, and performing an illegal marriage with Madeleine, a young lady with whom he has fallen in love.<br />THE ANGELICAL DEVIL: The Convent of the Ursulines in Loudun is ruled by Sister Jeanne of the Angels, a young humped back noun, with a beautiful face. She develops an obsession with Grandier and has sensual visions which involve the young priest. When she hears about the illicit marriage, she gets mad and falsely accuses the priest of sorcery and lewdness.<br />THE CONSPIRACY: Grandier's enemies (Laubardemont, Trincant, Father Mignon and others) grasp the false accusation as the means with which the destruction of the priest can be achieved. They accuse Grandier of sorcery and sent for an exorcist, Father Barre, who starts performing a series of exorcisms never seen before in France. The methods used by him and his assistants to extract the devils reputedly within the bodies of the nuns are base and sadistic. From Sister Jeanne's altered mind come the screams and the behavior that affect the other nuns. From there, collective hysteria spreads and as the nouns bask in their notoriety, their fantasies become more and more unreal. Those who oppose this infernal circus, on the grounds  that the exorcists are the ones depraved,  deliberately provoking the nouns, are arrested by Laubardemont, who wants to see the matter through. Both Richelieu and his agent are well aware of Grandier's innocence but the raison d' Etat calls for the destruction of the young priest.<br />THE TRIAL AND MARTYRDOM: Not surprisingly, based on the hysterical accusations of the nouns, Grandier and Madeleine are arrested. Grandier is brought to trial and found guilty of sorcery. He is viciously tortured, vainly, in order to extract a confession of his guilt. When Grandier is burnt alive at the stake, in the public square of Loudun, finally the walls of Loudun can be demolished.<br />BALANCE: A very stirring and moving  account of these tragic events, dotted with a psychological analysis  of the protagonists of the drama and some insightful  reflections about the ruthless workings of politics, this is my favorite Huxley's book. UNFORTUNATELY OUT OF PRINT, BUT NOT A NOVEL, A SAD INQUIRY INTO EVILy accuse Grandier of sorcery and sent for an exorcist, Father Barre, who starts performing a series of exorcisms never seen before in France. The methods used by him and his assistants to extract the devils reputedly within the bodies of the nuns are base and sadistic. From Sister Jeanne's altered mind come the screams and the behavior that affect the other nuns. From there, collective hysteria spreads and as the nouns bask in their notoriety, their fantasies become more and more unreal. Those who oppose this infernal circus, on the grounds  that the exorcists are the ones depraved,  deliberately provoking the nouns, are arrested by Laubardemont, who wants to see the matter through. Both Richelieu and his agent are well aware of Grandier's innocence but the raison d' Etat calls for the destruction of the young priest.<BR>THE TRIAL AND MARTYRDOM: Not surprisingly, based on the hysterical accusations of the nouns, Grandier and Madeleine are arrested. Grandier is brought to trial and found guilty of sorcery. He is viciously tortured, vainly, in order to extract a confession of his guilt. When Grandier is burnt alive at the stake, in the public square of Loudun, finally the walls of Loudun can be demolished.<BR>BALANCE: A very stirring and moving  account of these tragic events, dotted with a psychological analysis  of the protagonists of the drama and some insightful  reflections about the ruthless workings of politics, this is my favorite Huxley's book. UNFORTUNATELY OUT OF PRINT, BUT NOT A NOVEL, A SAD INQUIRY INTO EVIL	2002-12-16
US	47468238	RN3ALSQ5YTCDI	2070360423	317650420	La Peste (Folio Series, 42) (French Edition)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	THE NOVEL "POR EXCELENCIA" FROM CAMUS	Having submitted this review in spanish and not having it posted, I'll try again in english.......<br />Camus reached fame with his elaborations about the concept of the absurd (the purposeless search of the meaning of existence in a universe void of any)in three works: The Stranger, a novel; Caligula, a teathrical opus; and The Myth of Sisyphus, a recopilation of philosophical essays.<br />In his second famous novel, The Plague, we find a different Camus. Perhaps, more concerned about moral values and solidarity between human beings, in the face of massive destruction.<br />The plot of the novel unfolds in the city of Oran, Algeria. The central image has to do with a rat invasion that causes a plague epidemy, with disastrous consecuences. Here we find metaphorically portraited the invasion by the Nazis in 1943 of non occupied France (Camus said that the Nazis came like rats).<br />Then we find a description of the evolution of the plague, the reaction of the authorities (at first, self denial), the progressive isolation of the town from outside world, and on the onset the \\"normalization\\" of the tragedy (people grow accostumed to live with it, and become zombies). After the evolution and the growth of the problem, the inhabitants become completely isolated from the outside, and become prisoners in the inside, due to the drastic measures taken by the authorities. The plague becomes a collective problem that requires recognition and reaction by all. We have here a clear metaphorical reference to the need of a collective reaction to the Vichy government by all the citizens. The call to participate and react becomes a moral issue. Camus then describes with certain detail the soccer stadium where people are forcibly concentrated by the authorities, and this is an allusion to the Nazi concentration camps. More than the persons, the protagonist of this novel is the city.<br />In the sense that the values of solidarity and participation against a common disaster or enemy are called for, this novel is much more developed, from an ethical standpoint, than The Stranger.for, this novel is much more developed, from an ethical standpoint, than The Stranger.	2002-11-27
US	47468238	R1762X6BM3K2QR	0879755989	355797910	A Letter Concerning Toleration (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A CLASSIC AGAINST INTOLERANCE	This work by Locke, in spite of its brevity, is a required piece of reading in order to put in perspective the other endeavors of the author.<br />The issues discussed in this Essay were at the base of the formation of political theory in the Western world, during the centuries of enlightenment. Locke's effort in the case of this Letter (of the 4 he wrote, this is the first one, published in 1689 in English, from a text published some months previously in Holland) was the rescue of religious tolerance vis a vis political powers and structures, and the recognition of the need for a sphere of  private religious freedom, legally  guaranteed and exempt from  the interference of political power.<br />HISTORICAL BACKGROUND: When Locke wrote this Letter, there was still controversy regarding the definition of the concepts of liberty of conscience and religious freedom. In fact, the first step of the ladder is represented by the idea of religious tolerance. The starting point of analysis, at the time, came from the observation of the fact that certain degree of intolerance has always existed (religious, political, racial) in the human nature. If one analyzes the origin of religious intolerance in the western world, it stems necessarily from the fact that every Church or denomination, claims with more or less clarity to be the sole bearer of the truth. In this context, what could be the meaning of \\"tolerance\\" as a concession or pretense ? To recognize to the dissidents and minorities the possibility to coexist peacefully in a certain society, without having to renounce the external manifestations of their beliefs. But the need for religious tolerance can only  make sense in a society where a dominant religious majority has the power to impose onto others its dogmas, either directly (a theocratic government) or through secular political power  (the papist states).<br /> On the other hand, the concept of religious freedom implies the recognition for the individual of the natural right to freely profess and express his beliefs, without the intervention or interference of political power or Government. Accordingly, whilst tolerance had been considered historically as a \\"concession\\" granted by the dominant religious movement or Church to  other religious minorities, religious freedom appears in the Western civilization only once the political power is separated from the religious community. And here the Reform had its influence.<br /> LOCKE'S TOLERANCE: Against this background, the problem of tolerance appears to Locke as a political problem, based on his conception of the State as a society born out of the consent of free men. In his State, it is logical to deny the political power, the possibility to interfere in private matters. Locke defends religious tolerance recurring to several arguments.<br />Politically, war and factionalisms are not the product of religious differences, but of human intolerance. In other words, it is not a requisite for  the State, in order  to function, to have a unified religion. From the religious standpoint, the Church is a free and voluntary assembly. No man can be forced by the magistrate to enter or remain in a specific Church or religious denomination. Only if we freely follow the mandates of our conscience, we follow the road to salvation. Thus, all political efforts to force us to adopt the \\"true faith\\" are vain and anti-religious.<br />Persecution, in itself,  is not Christian and Locke concludes that in all matters related to the faith, violence is not an adequate or acceptable mean to gain followers.<br />Religious freedom, therefore, is a natural right of the individual and truth cannot be monopolized by any single religious denomination or person.<br />RESTRICTIONS: Does Locke really advocate absolute freedom for all men of every sect or religion when he writes: \\"Absolute liberty, just and true liberty,  equal and impartial liberty, is the thing that we stand in need for\\"?<br />Not really. Tolerance has to be just, but practicable, in accordance to public interest. Therefore tolerance cannot condone ideas that are contrary to society or to moral rules  required for the preservation of society. Doesn't Rome require submission from a catholic prince to a foreign power? For Locke, there is no real distinction between Catholics and atheists, from the political standpoint.<br />CONCLUSION: For Locke the only limits to  religious freedom are  the need to avoid damage to other individuals and  the preservation of the existence of the State. On the other hand, such a freedom is only viable as a consequence of the secularization of politic and the separation between Church and State.  I TRULY RECOMMEND THIS SEMINAL WORK. Time has not taken away certain lessons that are to be learned, if we want to live in a better world, a more tolerant one. GOOD ANTIDOTE AGAINST FUNDAMENTALISM.st, but practicable, in accordance to public interest. Therefore tolerance cannot condone ideas that are contrary to society or to moral rules  required for the preservation of society. Doesn't Rome require submission from a catholic prince to a foreign power? For Locke, there is no real distinction between Catholics and atheists, from the political standpoint. <BR>CONCLUSION: For Locke the only limits to  religious freedom are  the need to avoid damage to other individuals and  the preservation of the existence of the State. On the other hand, such a freedom is only viable as a consequence of the secularization of politic and the separation between Church and State.  I TRULY RECOMMEND THIS SEMINAL WORK. Time has not taken away certain lessons that are to be learned, if we want to live in a better world, a more tolerant one. GOOD ANTIDOTE AGAINST FUNDAMENTALISM.	2002-11-26
US	47468238	R39PKE89LGBIUO	0671880756	742078588	Making the Mummies Dance: Inside the Metropolitan Museum of Art	Books	4	18	19	N	N	SPILLING THE BEANS ABOUT THE MET REVOLUTION	This is a refreshing book, about the author's personal quest to transform the Metropolitan Museum of Art of N.Y., during his tenure as director of the museum (1967-1977).<br /> When Hoving arrived as Director, he assessed the Met as a disorganized institution, a collection of collections, located in a mixture of buildings and architectures that gave \\"the impression of something worse than incomplete; it seemed forgotten and forlorn....\\" At the time Hoving was offered the post, he was commissioner of Parks, under the tenure of Mayor John Lindsay, whose mayoral campaign the author had joined with a leave of absence from... the Met, where, after receiving his Ph.D. in Art from Princeton University, he went from assistant curator to curator of the Medieval Department and the Cloisters. And indeed, it was Lindsay, when told the news about the directorship, who said: \\"...have you considered the boredom? Seems to me the place is dead. But, Hoving, you'll make the mummies dance.\\" Hence the title of the book.<br /> The story is a fascinating, at times egotistical and gossipy account of what it took to revolutionize an institution like the Met. From the seduction of the patrons and trustees, such as Nelson Rockefeller, Walter Annenberg, Brooke Astor, Robert Lehman, to the development of a network of experts, smugglers and famous collectors, Hoving takes us on a journey that reveals a lot about the inner workings of power, expertise and glamour, in the art world.<br />At the end, we are led to believe Hoving's final insight about his tenure:<br />\\"With the creative energy of the Trustees who had been on my side and the stuff who supported me, the most sweeping revolution in the history of art museums had taken place. The Met, once an elitist, stiff, gray, and slightly moribund entity, came alive. THE MUMMIES DID DANCE......\\"	2002-11-18
US	47468238	R376OTBVIF8QCK	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	5	6	7	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST ONE- VOLUME BIOGRAPHIES OF SIR W.C.	This book by Roy Jenkins, former Chancellor of the Exchequer, of the Oxford University, member of the House of the Lords and President of the Royal Society of literature is THE BIOGRAPHY of Winston Churchill. Very well written,  outstanding in the breadth of material researched and deliciously witty, this one of  the best single volume approach to the life of one of the human milestones of the 20th Century.<br />Unless you have the time and purpose to go through the 8 volumes of the official biography started by Randolph Churchill but really attributable to Sir Martin Gilbert (ed. from 1966 to 1988), you will not be able to get a better factual assessment of the life and deeds of THE PRIME MINISTER par excellence.  It covers every important aspect of Churchill's life, and then some. From birth to schooling, his first exposures to war and politics, then early triumphs, despair, resurrection and demise, we get a clear picture of one of the principal players in English politics for almost 60 years.<br /> The book has a very well organized index, for reference purposes. For instance, under Churchill, Sir Winston Spencer, we have subtitles that address topics such as Characteristics and qualities (memory, self-confidence, personal bravery, argumentativeness, etc.) Education, Health, Honors, Military Career, etc.  that much facilitate a cross reading of important topics. We derive the impression that in such a difficult task ( a portrait of a man so complex and about whom so many have written) Jenkins has succeeded.<br /> WHY READ THIS BOOK ? This  work  might be even superior to Jenkins  biography about another giant of English politics: Gladstone. This may be just a coincidence, but a double one if we  recall  the final assessment that Jenkins provides about Churchill:<br />..\\"When I started writing this book I thought that Gladstone was, by a narrow margin, the greater man, certainly the more remarkable specimen of humanity. In the course of writing it I have changed my mind. I now put Churchill, with all his idiosyncrasies, his indulgences, his occasional childishness, but also his genius, his tenacity and his persistent ability, right or wrong, successful or unsuccessful, to be larger than life, as the greatest human being ever to occupy 10 Downing Street........\\"I now put Churchill, with all his idiosyncrasies, his indulgences, his occasional childishness, but also his genius, his tenacity and his persistent ability, right or wrong, successful or unsuccessful, to be larger than life, as the greatest human being ever to occupy 10 Downing Street........\\"	2002-11-11
US	47468238	R1O8PQJSZ6ACR1	0393310213	454759163	The Situation Is Hopeless But Not Serious (The Pursuit of Unhappiness)	Books	5	35	39	N	N	LAUGHING YOURSELF OUT OF UNHAPPINESS	A review by the marqueeofburano: A wonderful, witty, expos&eacute; of our endeavors to live a more miserable life by Watzlawick, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral science at Stanford University. The treatment of the subject will surely make you laugh at yourself and thus, perhaps, contribute to make you a better person.<br />W. deals with the fundamental, painful, necessity of the human being to be unhappy (in order to be quiet). And in fact, he contends that the best chapters of universal literature dwell with disaster, tragedy, guilt, madness, etc.<br />Dante's Inferno-W. writes- is very superior to his Paradise; same case as Milton's Paradise Lost compared with his Paradise Regained; Faust I's greatness is proportionally inverse to the tediousness of Faust II. So the author embarks hilariously in a methodic introduction to the best and more verifiable mechanisms to achieve unhappiness. Samples:<br />Always be truthful to yourself. A principle, from Polonius in Hamlet,of the outmost necessity for us ( its application is what gets the guy killed by Hamlet like a rat). So then, we must resist any temptation to yield to any other criteria or opinion, apart from ours. Never compromise or accept someone else's advice. The author then addresses the issue of the old saying: \\"time cures all wounds\\"..... According to W. four sound mechanisms exist if you want to avoid time's healing effects and transform the past into a present source of suffering. In the exaltation of the past we find those that only remember the good things about their youth and not the years of insecurity and anxiety. In so doing, they have a consistent reserve of sadness about their miserable present...... Also, this fidelity to the past, impairs our ability to enjoy the present and fully dedicate our efforts to the endeavors of the moment. Another mechanism is to consistently dwell with the guilt complex that past errors create, finding excuses or scapegoats (our parents, God, chromosomes, teachers etc.) while doing nothing to avoid committing the same mistakes again.<br />The author drives his point with practical examples. For instance the story of the hammer. A man wants to hang a painting. He has the nail, but not the hammer. Therefore it occurs to him to go over to the neighbor and ask him to lend him his hammer. But at this point, doubt sets in. What if he doesn't want to lend me the hammer? Yesterday he barely spoke to me. Maybe he was in a hurry. Or, perhaps, he holds something against me. But why? I didn't do anything to him. If he would ask me to lend him something, I would, at once. How can he refuse to lend me his hammer? People like him make other people's life miserable. Worst, he thinks that I need him because he has a hammer. This is got to stop ! And suddenly the guy runs to the neighbor's door, rings, and before letting him say anything, he screams: \\"You can keep your hammer, you b......\\"<br />Watzlawick not only discussess techniques to create false problems, but also the ones that make it actually possible to avoid solving problems and conver them into eternal torments. Here we get the example of the man that claps his hands every ten seconds. Asked why he does that, he answers: \\"to drive away the elephants...\\" -\\"But why, there are no elephants here\\"- The guy says: \\"Precisely\\".<br />This is a very funny book. It deals, with a fresh and delightful approach, with many of our karmas and mind bothering mosquitoes.......while doing nothing to avoid committing the same mistakes again.<BR>The author drives his point with practical examples. For instance the story of the hammer. A man wants to hang a painting. He has the nail, but not the hammer. Therefore it occurs to him to go over to the neighbor and ask him to lend him his hammer. But at this point, doubt sets in. What if he doesn't want to lend me the hammer? Yesterday he barely spoke to me. Maybe he was in a hurry. Or, perhaps, he holds something against me. But why? I didn't do anything to him. If he would ask me to lend him something, I would, at once. How can he refuse to lend me his hammer? People like him make other people's life miserable. Worst, he thinks that I need him because he has a hammer. This is got to stop ! And suddenly the guy runs to the neighbor's door, rings, and before letting him say anything, he screams: \\"You can keep your hammer, you b......\\" <BR>Watzlawick not only discussess techniques to create false problems, but also the ones that make it actually possible to avoid solving problems and conver them into eternal torments. Here we get the example of the man that claps his hands every ten seconds. Asked why he does that, he answers: \\"to drive away the elephants...\\" -\\"But why, there are no elephants here\\"- The guy says: \\"Precisely\\".<BR>This is a very funny book. It deals, with a fresh and delightful approach, with many of our karmas and mind bothering mosquitoes.......	2002-11-01
US	47468238	R2C4ECYUQYBRKM	0674539273	346278623	The Lost Lawyer : Failing Ideals of the Legal Profession	Books	5	14	17	N	N	RESCUING THE FADING IDEALS OF ADVOCACY	This is a very interesting book by Yale's Law School Dean, Anthony Kronman about law schools,  legal teaching, the practice of law, Courts  and the governing principles of law firms nowadays  in the United States.<br />The central idea is that the modern  American legal profession is in a crisis, a crisis of morale. Disguised by the material rewards of the profession, the downturn has been brought about by the demise of the traditional set of values that until recently played a definitive role in the aspirations of American lawyers. According to the author, previous generations of lawyers conceived their highest aim to be an attainment of practical wisdom about human beings and their affairs- that anyone who wishes to provide effective and real deliberative counsel must possess. This wisdom was perceived as a result acquired only by becoming a person of good judgment, and not merely an expert in technical matters of the law. The cultivation of this character virtue, was an important professional ideal, and contributed fundamentally to the perception that lawyers had about the intrinsic value of their work. And it is this ideal which is now dying in the legal profession. Lawyers find it increasingly difficult to attribute intrinsic fulfillment to their profession. Mainly, as the attention shifts to other means (material, metalegal, etc.) for fulfillment, lawyers cultivate less the traditional values and are ill prepared to provide sound legal and political advise.  So, Kronman embarks in a journey to restate the original ideals of what he calls the lawyer-stateman. Therefore, in the first part of the book, he seeks to define and defend more demanding standards of professional excellence. In doing so, he dwells with some complex philosophical issues involved, in simple terms. In the second part we get a more practical and sociological analysis of legal institutions and their cultural dynamics: the current shape of the Courts, legal schools, legal firms, and other institutions involved.<br />Why should this book be read by all lawyers and students? Because it provides a clear diagnostic of most of the shortcomings of the profession and clues to possible solutions.<br />Anybody  involved in the legal profession as a lawyer, cannot avoid the sensation of looking at a  mirror when reading: \\"The fascination with moneymaking that pervades large-firms  practice today tends, in a subtle but significant way, to unsettle the delicate balance between sympathy and detachment in which practical wisdom consists\\"...\\"a culturally reinforced preoccupation with money makes it more difficult to sustain the kind of self-forgetfulness required to deliberate for and with another person on his or her behalf\\"...\\"this demands that he temporarily suspend his own interests, for only by doing so can he clear an effective space in which his client's interests may be entertained with real feeling\\".<br />And in fact, as Kronman states,  many modern  clients are primarily concerned with making money, and this goal can distort the lawyer's advice by not telling the client that the option that yields the most money, is not the best one overall. The lawyer who is a believer of the money making process and shares  his client concern for money, can find it difficult to avoid mistakes in its own deliberations......utions involved.<BR>Why should this book be read by all lawyers and students? Because it provides a clear diagnostic of most of the shortcomings of the profession and clues to possible solutions.<BR>Anybody  involved in the legal profession as a lawyer, cannot avoid the sensation of looking at a  mirror when reading: \\"The fascination with moneymaking that pervades large-firms  practice today tends, in a subtle but significant way, to unsettle the delicate balance between sympathy and detachment in which practical wisdom consists\\"...\\"a culturally reinforced preoccupation with money makes it more difficult to sustain the kind of self-forgetfulness required to deliberate for and with another person on his or her behalf\\"...\\"this demands that he temporarily suspend his own interests, for only by doing so can he clear an effective space in which his client's interests may be entertained with real feeling\\". <BR>And in fact, as Kronman states,  many modern  clients are primarily concerned with making money, and this goal can distort the lawyer's advice by not telling the client that the option that yields the most money, is not the best one overall. The lawyer who is a believer of the money making process and shares  his client concern for money, can find it difficult to avoid mistakes in its own deliberations......	2002-10-21
US	47468238	R7PAZG109738C	030681076X	618118264	The Art Of War	Books	3	62	72	N	N	REVISITING A POPULAR BOOK IN ITS TIME	Today, when you mention The Art of War, people refer immediately to the book by Sun Tzu. However, the only works published for the general public during Macchiavelli's life are the Decennale Primo, the Mandragola, and this one. The work being review was published in Florence by Macchiavelli in august 1521 and it had an immediate success and many reprints.<br />Having completed already The Prince and the Discorsi, and not foreseeing any possibility of returning to public service, Macchiavelli decided to write a book about warfare, in part as a result of his meetings and conversations with a group of young alumni and friends at the Orti Oricellari. Some of these were involved, in 1522, in a conspiracy to kill Cardinal Giulio de'Medici,Master of Florence.<br />The Art of War is not a textbook, but rather a humanistic treatise on the subject, written under the form of dialogues, divided in seven books. The interlocutors are Fabrizio Colonna, Cosimo Ruccellai and the young men Buondelmonti, della Palla and Alamanni. The first book deals with recruitment, the second with the weapons of infantry and cavalry, the relationship between this corps and military exercises. Colonna and Ruccellai are the protagonists of the dialogues here, while in the III book the role of interlocutor to Colonnais vested upon the younger Alamanni. Alamanni inquires about the role of the artillery and is substance Macchiavelli's judgement (through Colonna's words) is negative. In the IV book Buondelmonti inquires about the importance of military formations and other possible combat formations (different from the traditional roman and others).<br />The final three books deal with logistics, accommodations, military discipline, fortifications, sieges and defensive tactics.<br />The language of this opus is the most polished and conventional, opposed to the one in other works by the author. Modern critics, in spite of the original success of the book, have pointed out the wrong perception that Macchiavelli had about the growing importance of artillery and the role of military reforms that were enacted in France at the time. He also wrongly criticized, as a whole, the professional army alongside the mercenaries and Compagnie di Ventura. The admiration of M. regarding roman legions and classic institutions is also questionable, in view of the evolution of warfare at the time. So why was this book so popular, until the anti-M. revisionism took a clearer look at reality, discarding abstract and moralistic propositions about warfare?<br />Because the treatise provided a clear and fresh (at the time) view about the intimate connection between military art, politics, war and religion, in a global context.ad about the growing importance of artillery and the role of military reforms that were enacted in France at the time. He also wrongly criticized, as a whole, the professional army alongside the mercenaries and Compagnie di Ventura. The admiration of M. regarding roman legions and classic institutions is also questionable, in view of the evolution of warfare at the time. So why was this book so popular, until the anti-M. revisionism took a clearer look at reality, discarding abstract and moralistic propositions about warfare? <BR>Because the treatise provided a clear and fresh (at the time) view about the intimate connection between military art, politics, war and religion, in a global context.	2002-09-21
US	47468238	R2GTG05YXN39UQ	0198752482	183650094	An Enquiry concerning Human Understanding (Oxford Philosophical Texts)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Required reading from the greatest of the empiricists	This is a good edition of the first but fundamental book published by Hume in 3 volumes (1 and 2 in 1739; 3 in 1740) dedicated to the methodical study of knowledge, passions and moral, through experience  and practical observation.  It is with Hume that empiricism (following Locke and Berkeley) reaches its complete expression as a \\"modern\\" classical system, against previous dogmatic visions of philosophy. According to Kant, Hume  awoke him from the dogmatic dream......<br />With Hume, english illustration comes to a definitive expression. Through his opus, empiricism is systematized and acquires a new dimension that expands its influence on all fields of philosophy. Previous conceptions about the theory of knowledge, ethics, politics, esthetics, and the philosophy of religion, all are transformed or renovated by Hume. In spite of his critics, Hume's system dwelled with different topics of modern interest: positivism, psychology, nominalism, critical skepticism, determinism, agnosticism, moral philosophy, political economy, etc.<br />No serious philosopher after Hume, has been able to avoid a careful look at his system. So if you are a student or scholar of the subject matter, I highly recommend this edition of Hume's seminal work.	2002-09-18
US	47468238	R3VRZFUZB7ZW6L	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	3	6	9	N	N	HARD ON THE GENERAL PUBLIC	Given the fact that professor Hawking possesses a prodigious mind, we cannot conclude that everybody can easily read and comprehend the concepts of time, wormholes, black holes, string theory and quantum gravity that the author purports to explain. But maybe one should expect a clearer understanding to stem from a book which was written for, and is specifically addressed, to the general public. So, in spite of the fact that this book has achieved the status of a best seller, and it is well written, I give it 3 stars because it does not really achieve its primary goal. Without assuming that we are all ignorant, but also discarding the contrary, one can doubt if more than 30% of those who bought it (except people that do not recognize the concept of humbleness) truly understands the subject matter. On the other hand, this is an interesting book for people versed in physics, engineering, mathematics and the like, but not for real operators in physics. So, if you are after a book from Hawking that can really help you to better understand universe, time and other complex issues, go after THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING. It is more like reading Bertrand Russell's History of Western Philosophy.	2002-06-26
US	47468238	R1NXDY7FOZFT8B	0140187952	441301812	The Theory of the Leisure Class (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	60	71	N	N	VERY  FRESH 100 YEARS OLD BOOK	This opus by Veblen exposes the real meaning of the pecuniary advancement of the working and merchant classes, and the formation of elites based mostly upon money and asset valuation. The transfiguration of the traditional social and individual ethical values that this phenomenon produced, is portraited with clarity and sarcastic intelligence by the author in the book, first published in 1899.<br />Now a classic of economic theory, as well as a text book of social science, it describes the tendencies of consumerism, leisure and the &quot;materialization&quot; of the ideals of the aspiring new princes (or noveau rich) of society. Veblen's vibrant satire  of the tendency of the modern individual to believe that real accomplishment is all about aquiring a condition of ostentatious wealth and status, and  his analisis of the inception of modern class structure in America, still stand, a century after, as recommended reading for historians and economists.<br />If you are a fervent follower of advertisement, fashion, &quot;glamour&quot; and other modern  expressions of consumerism , then you will find a surprisingly fresh portrait of yourself in this book. It worries me that the leisure class and its shallow views and values as described by Veblen, may still today represent elites in America and their religion, as analyzed by professor Lash in his last book &quot;The Revolt of the Elites&quot;. I highly recommend Veblen's best book, to scholars and sociologists at large.	2002-06-26
US	47468238	R3FA8EFNAB7CZ4	4590000865	61555835	One Hundred Poems From One Hundred Poets	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A CLASSIC  ANTHOLOGY	This book is a translation by Mr. H.H. Honda of the \\"Ogura Hyaku-nin-isshiu\\" or \\"One Hundred Poems From One Hundred Poets\\". An anthology compiled during the Kamakura period (XIIIth century), the Ogura will give you an excellent overview of japanese classic poetry, from the poem written by the Emperor Tenchi (who ruled until 671 A.D.)to the one due to the penmanship of Emperor Juntoku (whose last year of reign was 1221 A.D.).<br />These poems are arranged mostly in chronological order and constitute an outstanding expression of japanese poetry, during the period. No wonder this anthology is a classic of japanese literature. So much so that educated japanese know these poems by heart, as Mr. Honda tells us in the foreword.<br />As for the translation and the rendering of the subtle essence of the classic japanese poems in english, let me say that some of these poems are also collected in the book \\"One Hundred Poems From The Japanese\\" (New Directions, Canada, 1964) by Kenneth Rexroth. The translation by Mr. Rexroth is not as literal as the one by Honda, but in my opinion it better conveys the sensibility and concentration of the poems for non-japanese readers.	2002-06-24
US	47468238	R3J478CASVVL4H	0865473285	72094978	A Zen Harvest: Japanese Folk Zen Sayings (Haiku, Dodoitsu, and Waka)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	MOST WONDERFUL BOOK OUT OF PRINT	I stumbled upon this book, in a japanese bookstore in N.Y., several years ago. Only now, that the common mortal cannot buy it, I fully realize how lucky and well directed my compulsion to buy books was, in that instance. An excellent travelling companion, this anthology of japanese folk zen sayings has never let me down, in times of trouble, sorrow and joy.<br />This is an outstanding compilation, by Zen scholar Soiku Shigematsu, of japanese tanka (five lines), haiku (three)and dodoitsu (four) mostly from the Zenrin Segoshu, a handbook compiled in japanese by Zen masters to meet the demands of those Zen students that found the Zenrin Kushu difficult to read, because it was written in Chinese. It must be remembered that the classical study of koan in the Renzai Zen monasteries required students to dwell in jakugo or capping phrase exercises. Once the first phase of the koan analysis is over, the student must pick a capping phrase from thousands of poems in a special anthology (the only book allowed in the meditation hall), that best expresses the mental and physical state reached by him through meditation. This exercise<br />of course leads to the study of all the poems in the anthology and therefore expands the students knowledge and understanding of the Zen culture and classic texts.<br />In order to give an idea of the poems that this book contains and to promote a new printing of it, here are some of the jewels from this paper box:<br /><br /> There seems,<br /> But there's never:<br /> Moon in the water.<br />  -------------<br />&quot;There is&quot;, someone says,<br /> And we stick to that &quot;there is.&quot;<br /> See there's nothing-<br /> Only the sound<br /> Of the pine wind from the beach.<br />  ---------------<br /> Since legendary times,<br /> Nothing has changed:<br /> Running water and the love<br /> Between woman and man.<br />  -------------<br /> In the dark<br /> I lost sight of<br /> My shadow;<br /> I've found it again<br /> By the fire I lit.<br />  --------<br /> Little clear streams rustle<br /> Down through the mountain rocks<br /> And finally let the battleship<br /> Float on the sea.<br />THIS BOOK MUST BE REPRINTED FOR THE DELIGHT OF COMMON FOLKS AND POETRY FANS.ear streams rustle<BR> Down through the mountain rocks<BR> And finally let the battleship<BR> Float on the sea.<br />THIS BOOK MUST BE REPRINTED FOR THE DELIGHT OF COMMON FOLKS AND POETRY FANS.	2002-06-24
US	47468238	R11OFJS5XW3JG3	0393001369	639318084	Freedom Versus Organization, 1814-1914: The Pattern of Political Changes in 19th Century European History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	EXCELLENT OVERVIEW OF FUNDAMENTAL 19th CENTURY IDEAS	The title of the book does'nt reveal the scope and usefulness of this work by the one of the greatest thinkers of the XXth century.<br />This opus reviews some of the fundamental ideas that shaped our modern western world, and dwells with the genesis of the political, economical and philosophical theories which contributed to the transformation of Europe and America in the 19th century (and in the 20th as well).<br />In this well written journey, we walk from the Vienna Congress and the Holy Alliance to World War I. In doing so, the causes of the intellectual progress and the industrial revolution are analized. The evolution of democracy in England, the radical philosophers and economists, Malthus, Bentham, J.S.Mill, David Ricardo and then the origins of socialism, Owen, Marx, Engels, the formation of democracy in America, the issues of slavery, Lincoln's political thought, the  inception of modern Nationalism and Imperialism, all constitute necessary chapters of this intellectual voyage with  Russell. This book could very well constitute mandatory reading for history or political science students. Very highly recommended.	2002-06-20
US	47468238	R2KBZSBL71E3LF	0393036995	470267664	The Revolt of the Elites: And the Betrayal of Democracy	Books	5	56	57	N	N	PROVOCATIVE INSIGHTS ABOUT THE WORKINGS OF MODERN DEMOCRACY	This book is very interesting and provocative. Nobody seriously interested in political science, the structure of society and government, the need to reassess democracy and reconsider the roles of pressure groups, should overlook this last contribution by professor Lash.<br />According to the author, modern democracy is not only challenged by the masses (as Ortega y Gasset stated in its Revolt of the Masses), but also, and mostly, by the elites. Modern elites are not anymore connected with their geographical and social background and roots, they have a global vision and ambition, and  do not accept any constraints and limits in the pursuance of their egotistical interests, which are basically money oriented. It is now common for the leaders and members of the ruling meritocracy to base self esteem upon success, material success, and to downplay humanistic ideals such as respect and tolerance.<br />The ideas and perceptions of Lash must provoke serious rethinking about the effective level of &quot;democraticity&quot; of the modern political structure, and the remedies that have to be conceived to ensure a truly democratic participation of the citizens in the exercise or control of power and government.<br />I would suggest that this book has to be accompanied by other works on the subject of democracy and elitism, in order to appreciate the dangers and pitfalls of the transformation and &quot;materialization&quot; of the values of the elites, and its overall effect upon the system analyzed by Lash. So read this book, but also the classic works by Robert Michels and Maurice Duverger about political parties, elites and pressure groups. Also, the book by Vilfredo Pareto &quot;The rise and the fall of Elites&quot; and the recent &quot;Democracy and its critics&quot; by Robert Dahl. You will then understand better this caveat by professor Lash, within the context of modern democracy.	2002-06-20
US	47468238	R1KV1G1WC0KFPG	0811201813	597852300	100 Poems from the Japanese	Books	5	34	35	N	N	FIRST RATE INITIATION TO JAPANESE POETRY	This is one of the greatest &quot;small&quot; books I have ever read. Rexroth conveys a good bird's eye view of classical japanese poetry, with poems selected and translated by him, mostly from the Manyoshu (A.D. 759) and Kokinshu (A.D. 905)compilations.<br />You will be surprised by the intensity and sensibility that these short poems reflect. Also you will be delighted to read the different depictions of states of mind and heart in this poetry which will eerely convey the atemporal dimension of sorrow, pain, joy and appeasement to the contemporary human being.<br />An example of what to expect:<br /> The flowers whirl away<br /> In the wind like snow.<br /> The thing that falls away<br /> Is myself.....(Prime Minister Kintsune)	2002-06-18
US	47468238	R2AIM86IO49FIP	0521010683	572523055	The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	Books	4	13	16	N	N	ARMAGEDDON IS NOT THAT NEAR	This is a fascinating book if you read it with an objective mind.  Lomborg presents a new perspective about  inaccuracies  that have enabled some environmentalists and activists to present an excessively  bleak picture of the effects of pollution, overpopulation, global warming, food shortages, reduction of biodiversity, etc.  One has to bear in mind that the author started his research when he was an environmentalist at Greenpeace.<br />He utilizes statistical and economic models to present us another view about these subjects and the real dangers we have to confront in the world, using mostly official figures of the U.N., World Bank and environmentalist organizations. According to the author, there are problems that we must approach in a scientific manner, but we might have never been better off compared with other periods of humanity.<br />Life expectation has doubled  in developed countries in just a century (increasing 50% in less developed ones). Never so much food has been produced and population growth is slower relatively, than the reduction of cereal production. According to  FAO figures the rainforests are not in the brink of extinction. On the contrary, since WWII, forests have actually grown by 0.85 %. Lomborg also analyzes in depth figures related with the water problem and pollution. Global warming effect gets a fairer treatment.<br />The Kyoto protocol could only provide a very marginal difference in temperature rise.<br />If you want to balance the inflammatory literature we are getting used to read, with  another perspective, I would recommend this book. But of course, politicians,  regional interests, and fanatics are contaminating  constantly what should be a real and transparent debate, from the scientific standpoint, to insure a better future and the right policies for a healthier world..........	2002-06-03
US	47468238	R8LRPJ9CXH5PF	0880297689	788298638	Respectfully Quoted: A Dictionary of Quotations	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A MUST FOR QUOTATIONS FANS	If you are a speechwriter, a professor or a politician, then this is a mandatory tool of work. Now that quotations books are a common merchandise, it is difficult to sift through all what is available in order to single out what is useful.<br />This book contains the cumulated result of 50 years of work, in the Congressional Reading Room Quotation File. Staff at the Congressional Reading Room have been handling requests by the Congressmen and their staffs to verify quotations to be used in public debate. As the editor points out in the Introduction, as many as 1500 queries a day are being received by the Congressional Research Service.<br />So this is a collective effort of the highest quality regarding authenticity and the broadness of the field of the citations provided. And it is the genesis of this book what makes it stand apart from other individual and  fragmentary efforts. I recommend this book very much also because the quotations are well organized by subject, by keyword and by author, and that guarantees that busy people will not lose unnecessary time searching for the quote that can make the difference....	2002-05-20
US	47468238	R1AAVGUYSBUY2I	0446672289	231487583	The Death of Common Sense: How Law is Suffocating America	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A TEXT BOOK ABOUT NORMATIVISM  AGAINST NATURAL PRINCIPLES	This is food for thought, not only for law students, lawyers and practitioners but also for the common citizen. In particular, for all those that get lost in the ill conceived red tape of mother bureaucracy, get stuck in fragmentary and nonsensical regulations.  Not only the author provides enough examples of organizational lunacy, due to excess of formalism or elaborate distorsions of clear legal texts and principles, but also gives some insights about possible solutions to the problem of the excessive weight of rules and procedures so precise that no one has the chance to think for himself or find a solution to a problem applying common principles.<br />As Howard points out: &quot;The sunlight of common sense shines high above us whenever principles control: What is right and reasonable, not the parsing of the legal language, dominates the discussion.With the goal shining always before us, the need for lawyers fades along with the receding legal shadows. People understand what is expected from them.&quot;<br />This is a provocative book written by somebody that has been a practicing lawyer as well as a teacher. These two hats permit the author to better size up the frustrations and limitations that paperwork and stupid regulations inflict upon the citizens.<br />It should be required reading for law students.	2002-04-17
US	47468238	R6ONMMAIORE0W	0306806983	601885899	Death Dealer: The Memoirs of the SS Kommandant at Auschwitz	Books	5	125	140	N	N	THE BANALITY OF EVIL AND THE DEMISE OF REVISIONISM	This book provides a first hand account about the youth, carrier and the personal participation in the Holocaust, extermination of gypsies, russian prisoners and other human beings, of a man that was Kommandant at Auschwitz, from 1940 until 1943 and then Chief of the Department of Inspectors of the Concentration Camps.<br /> Rudolph H?ss, a man with a psychopathic personality, tells a gruesome, personal and detailed tale about the inception of Auschwitz, the logistical problems of its expansion, the gassings, his quarreling with other camp commanders due to their unproficiency, with the detachment and the normalcy of a bureaucrat, all of which not only makes a case study in the psychiatry of mass murder, but also recalls the concept of the banality of evil, elaborated by Hanna Arendt in her book about Adolph Eichmann's trial ( no surprise here, since these two fellows used to cooperate in their endeavour).<br />The reasons given for their participation in the crimes committed, reveal the danger of a totalitarian or fanatical education, not only for the feeble minded, but also for \\"normal people\\" without a clear perception of the distinction between evil and good, from an ethical standpoint.  Reading this book we confirm the distinction made by the scholars between the psyche of a serial killer (an intimate act) and that of the mass murderer (ideologically driven detachment).<br />H?ss tells us about an infancy without real love, and how he couldn't relate with affection to his parents, sister, and then his wife. After he marries, his real dream is to have a farm, but the opportunity is given to him to enter in the S.S. by Himmler himself. In Auschwitz, he claims never to have mistreated personally any prisoner and that he always behaved in a professional manner. However, his detached or impersonal fight against what the S.S. taught him to be the COMMON ENEMY, involved a participation in the first experimentation of Cyclon B in order to find a more expedient and humane manner to kill hundreds of thousand faceless human beings. And we must believe H?ss when he tells us that the methods of shooting all the poor devils or gassing them with carbon monoxide, were in fact burdensome, logistically complicated and not that \\"human\\".<br />Regarding his personal attitude towards the gassings, we get a perverse but fascinating explanation of how difficult it was for H?ss to bury all his human inhibitions, so as not to give a bad example to the other \\"employees\\" of Auschwitz. In order to better understand, I have selected this paragraph:<br /> \\"On one occasion two little children were involved in<br /> a game they were playing and their mother just<br /> couldn't tear them away from it. Even the jews from the Sonderkommando didn't want to pick up the children. I<br />will never forget the pleading look in the face of the<br /> mother, who certainly knew what was happening. The<br />people in the gas chamber were becoming restless.<br />Everyone was looking at me. I had to act. I gave the<br /> sergeant in charge a wave, and he picked up the screaming, kicking children in his arms and brought them in the<br />gas chamber along with the mother, who was weeping in<br /> the most heart-braking fashion. Believe me, I felt like shrinking into the ground out of pity, but I was not<br />allowed to show the slightest emotion. Hour upon hour<br /> I had to witness all that happened. I had to watch<br />day and night, whether it was the dragging and burning<br /> of the bodies, the teeth being ripped out, the cutting<br /> of the hair; I had to watch all this horror..... I also<br /> had to watch the process of death itself though the<br />peephole of the gas chamber because the doctors called<br /> my attention to it. I had to do all of this because I<br /> was the one to whom everyone looked, and because I had<br /> to show everybody that I was not only the one who gave<br /> the orders and issued the directives, but that I was<br />willing to be present at whatever task I ordered the men<br /> to perform.\\"<br />The fine foreword by the italian writer Primo Levi, himself a survivor of the Nazi concentration camps, refers to the two main reasons to bring out and divulge this book after so long. The first, to neutralize the efforts of the revisionists. The accurate description and details given by H?ss, confirmed by his testimony at Nuremberg, by the survivors and material evidence, prevent the possibility of denying or downscaling the gassings at Auschwitz. The second reason is to present, in graphic manner, the ultimate consequences of accepting blindly a totalitarian ideology.R> to perform.\\"<BR>The fine foreword by the italian writer Primo Levi, himself a survivor of the Nazi concentration camps, refers to the two main reasons to bring out and divulge this book after so long. The first, to neutralize the efforts of the revisionists. The accurate description and details given by H?ss, confirmed by his testimony at Nuremberg, by the survivors and material evidence, prevent the possibility of denying or downscaling the gassings at Auschwitz. The second reason is to present, in graphic manner, the ultimate consequences of accepting blindly a totalitarian ideology.	2002-04-12
US	47468238	RDQ3R73PQ3MCU	0226569535	826607492	Law and the Image: The Authority of Art and the Aesthetics of Law	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ABOUT THE INTERRELATION  OF LAW AND AESTHETICS	This is an interesting recopilation of essays about the relationship of law and art, normativism and creativity, obscenity and common mores. It contains contributions by several scholars in the field of Art and Law and is edited by professors Costas Douzinas and Lynda Nead.<br />The main scope of the book is to provide insights into the relationship between art and the law. As the editors write in the introduction:<br />&quot;Lawyers live by the text and love the past, they hate novelty and misunderstand new languages. The law is able to appreciate new art only after it becomes like law. Great art, on the other hand, precisely because it breaks away from conventions and rules and expresses creative freedom and imagination, is the anthitesis of law.  The law of art is the opposite of the rule of law......&quot;<br />So here we find out how the individual is treated in abstract by the law and how the self in art is free, corporeal, with gender and  history.  We also learn about the allegorical images of Justice, during different ages and how obscenity, law and art intermingle. I found very illuminating,in this perspective, the basic qualities that prof. Nead assigns to the connoisseur of art: knowledge and judgment. &quot;Connoisseurship -she writes- assumes a thorough knowledge of the subject concerned, which forms the basis of a critical judgment. But what kind of judgment is involved in connosseurship? The obvious answer would seem to be, an aesthetic sort-the perception and appraisal of pure form, of that which is beautiful. But at the point at which connoisseurship appears to have clearly defined aims and objects, the borders begin to dissolve; cerebral criteria become corporalized and the judgement of artistic form is compromised by the regulation of bodies and behaviors..&quot;<br />And finally a startling  conclusion is drawn:  the prevention of obscenity by law acts to control mass culture and publics and to insulate the high culture and private consumption from legal intervention. This because what gentlemen choose to have in their private collections is a matter of taste; it is not a matter for the law......al intervention. This because what gentlemen choose to have in their private collections is a matter of taste; it is not a matter for the law......	2002-04-12
US	47468238	RVCUSKDRVPB77	0517183536	765434538	Complete Book of U.S. Presidents	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A DEFINITIVE REFERENCE BOOK FOR THE NON INITIATED	For people around the world interested in history and the workings of the U.S. Presidential sistem, this is the ultimate  reference guide about U.S. Presidents. It provides a wealth of information about Presidents that are not well known, as well as little known facts about more famous Presidents. It is organized in 43 chapters, one for each President (with the exeption of Grover Cleveland which is treated in two chapters) and every President is covered according to headings such as: Physical description, personality, siblings, childhood, education, religion, marriage (in some cases extramarital or postmarital affairs),carrier before the Presidency, campaign and issues, inaugural address, Administration Cabinet, Supreme Court appointments, books written, etc.<br />A MUST HAVE !	2002-04-10
US	47468238	R39NHNMFCGV5HC	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	5	5	N	N	CAMUS USES  METAPHORS AND  SOWS SOLIDARITY	Camus reached fame with his elaborations about the concept of the absurd (the purposeless search of the meaning of existence in a universe void of any)in three works: The Stranger, a novel; Caligula, a teathrical opus; and The Myth of Sisyphus, a recopilation of philosophical essays.<br />In his second famous novel, The Plague, we find a different Camus. Perhaps, more concerned about moral values and solidarity between human beings, in the face of massive destruction.<br />The plot of the novel unfolds in the city of Oran, Algeria. The central image has to do with  a rat invasion that causes a plague epidemy, with disastrous consecuences. Here we find metaphorically portraited the invasion by the Nazis in 1943 of non occupied France (Camus said that the Nazis came like rats).<br />Then we find a description of the evolution of the plague, the reaction of the authorities (at first, self denial), the progressive isolation of the town from outside world, and on the onset the \\"normalization\\" of the tragedy (people grow accostumed to live with it, and become zombies). After the evolution and the growth of the problem, the inhabitants become completely isolated from the outside, and become prisoners in the inside, due to the drastic measures taken by  the authorities. The plague becomes a collective problem that requires recognition and reaction by all. We have here a clear metaphorical reference to the need of a collective reaction to the Vichy government by all the citizens. The call to participate and react becomes a moral issue. Camus then describes with certain detail the soccer stadium where people are forcibly concentrated by the authorities, and this is an allusion to the Nazi concentration camps. More than the persons, the protagonist of this novel is the city.<br />In the sense that the values of solidarity and participation against a common disaster or enemy are called for, this novel is much more developed, from an ethical standpoint, than The Stranger. IT MAKES POWERFUL READING.ERFUL READING.	2002-04-10
US	47468238	R12TQQ67W5QO73	0937165093	12533810	Deliberate Deceptions: Facing the Facts About the U.S.-Israeli Relationship	Books	5	74	80	N	N	SIMPLE FACTS: A MORE BALANCED VIEW IS SUBMITTED	For those who find themselves confused and misinformed, because of the sheer flow of distorted information and propaganda regarding the Palestinian question and Middle East crisis, I would strongly recommend this book. Here Findley portraits, in a readable and simple fashion, the basic illusions under which the american public has been nurtured, regarding the true intentions and policies of the theocratic government in Israel, and the suppression of palestinians fundamental human rights.<br />This is a book that must be read to aquire a more balanced view of the Middle East drama, specially now that the fundamental right of a Palestinian State to exist is being again denied by the ortodox driven government of Sharon.<br />Here you will find, in a very simple and understandable presentation, the basic information about the British ill fated handling of the palestinian land; the meaning of the Balfour Declaration; an explanation of the U.N. Resolutions regarding the State of Israel and its policies; and revealing facts about the deceptions and the wars that have been fought, not usually presented in a truthful manner to the american voters.<br />Only if the true facts are known, and this is why one must read this book, the appalling tragedy of the palestinian people can be understood. Only then, will it be possible for the U.S. to shape a different foreign policy towards the Middle East based on the premise that all fanatical and totalitarian views must be abandoned, including those of the right wing in Israel, in order to seek a solution to the problem. The U.S. has unduly financed and permitted, through a miopic view of the situation, the furtherance of an expansionistic vision by Sharon, and the destruction of Palestinian Authority. This will not stop until the cries of the moderate Israeli politicians prevail. On the other hand, the problems that terrorism has brought to America will increase if we keep giving unconditionally military aid to a country that practices terroristic tactics with our weapons, while we preach to the world that we are on a crusade against terrorism. Double standards must be put to an end because now they are directly jeopardazing our security and our fundamental interests.<br />Findley has been persecuted because of his books and his quest to present the required material to form an objective view of the situation. For this, he has been named an anti-semite. But we dont need more propaganda. JUST THE FACTS. AND FACTS SET FORTH IN THIS BOOK CAN AND HAVE BEEN VERIFIED. If Findley were a jew, he would be called a self-denier like the jew professors and moderate Israeli politicians that have valiantly revealed those same facts, and cannot accept that a sistematic violation of human rights, no matter the motivations, is being perpetrated by the same people that suffered brutally at the hand of Hitler.roristic tactics with our weapons, while we preach to the world that we are on a crusade against terrorism. Double standards must be put to an end because now they are directly jeopardazing our security and our fundamental interests.<BR>Findley has been persecuted because of his books and his quest to present the required material to form an objective view of the situation. For this, he has been named an anti-semite. But we dont need more propaganda. JUST THE FACTS. AND FACTS SET FORTH IN THIS BOOK CAN AND HAVE BEEN VERIFIED. If Findley were a jew, he would be called a self-denier like the jew professors and moderate Israeli politicians that have valiantly revealed those same facts, and cannot accept that a sistematic violation of human rights, no matter the motivations, is being perpetrated by the same people that suffered brutally at the hand of Hitler.	2002-04-09
US	47468238	R1NR8QNZ1A3N4K	8437608562	44832889	El Proceso	Books	5	1	3	N	N	LO MEJOR DE KAFKA: UNA EXPLORACION DE LO ABSURDO	Si le interesa el existencialismo o si le preocupa el sentido de su existencia y lo absurdo de ciertos mecanismos de funcionamiento de la sociedad moderna, este es un libro que debe leer. O quiz&aacute;s, si lee esta obra maestra, empezar&aacute; a pensar seriamente acerca de estos temas y sobre el individuo, su relaci&oacute;n con la sociedad, la burocracia y el poder. Esta obra fu&eacute; publicada en 1925  (despu&eacute;s de la muerte de Kafka, acaecida en 1924) y es considerada por muchos cr&iacute;ticos y fil&oacute;sofos como lo mejor escrito por este autor.<br />La descripci&oacute;n de la soledad y de la enajenaci&oacute;n del ser humano, en la sociedad moderna, constituye el n&uacute;cleo central de todas las obras de Kafka. Por ello se suele decir que elabor&oacute; anticipadamente algunos de los temas tratados luego, en forma recurrente, por los existencialistas.<br />La descripci&oacute;n que hace, en forma detallada y realista, de la existencia del individuo moderno (del ser humano individual) revela con eficacia lo absurdo e irreal de su condici&oacute;n. Desde una perspectiva metaf&iacute;sica, la absurdidad se funda en la ausencia de Dios y en la imposibilidad de aferrar o comprender todo aquello que va m&aacute;s all&aacute; de lo racional.<br />Desde el punto de vista de lo social, la absurdidad deriva del car&aacute;cter sofocante y controlador de la sociedad moderna frente al individuo. Abrumado por estas complejidades, el ser humano no tiene m&aacute;s alternativa que refugiarse en su peque&ntilde;a realidad personal, renunciando a toda certidumbre o a respuestas convencionalmente confortantes.	2002-04-01
US	47468238	R1Y2UPSFGCEAQI	0415249988	523575157	The Selected Letters of Bertrand Russell, Volume 2: The Public Years 1914-1970 (Vol 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	AN OUTSTANDING SELECTION	This book is recommended reading for anyone interested in a fresh approach to the workings of the mind one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century.<br />It is a selection of 338 letters written by Bertrand Russell between 1914 and 1970. Sifting though more than 40,000 letters is no simple feat. Fortunately the editor is Nicholas Griffin, director of the Bertrand Russel Research Center at McMaster University in Ontario. As editor of Russell's &quot;Collected Papers&quot;, he is in an enviable position to provide us with the juiciest tidbits of Russell's dry humour, as well as a portrait of a passionate man.<br />The editor commentaries to the letters are useful in order to better understand and put in perspective some events and people mentioned by this very extraordinary thinker. One that you have to know well, if you are to understand how could he write in 1967<br />that &quot;a great deal of work has come upon me, neglect of which might jeopardise the continuation of the human being......&quot; Kudos to the editor.	2002-03-05
US	47468238	R2L2B4MD2IGU6Q	0140442103	204787380	Letters from a Stoic (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	49	55	N	N	A VERY MODERN VERY OLD AND SAGE STOIC	This book is the fundamental vademecum for every day life. No person that I know has left this book suffer the dust and the quiet tranquillity that any other philosophy book enjoy in a library. This letters contain all the wisdom and the poise to enable any inquisitive soul to aquire selfcontrol, to endure with dignity the burdens of misfortune, to take success and fame with humbleness and cynicism, to prepare with serenity to die. Finally, to consider the end of life with the detachment of someone who has used well a precious object, without contracting the disease of jealousy.<br /> This is a very easily readable book, and it was written by Seneca in the last four years of his life (62-65 A.D.). In my opinion is the masterpiece of his moral philosophy.<br />Seneca's literary style was criticized by his contemporaries for its fragmentary and non-classic hues, and it is truly very modern. Caligula defined it as \\"sand without lime\\". St. Augustine in his City of God, in a reference to his contradictions, criticized the fact that this man who almost achieved real freedom through philosophy, pursued what he criticized, did what he loathed and inculpated what he adored. AND WHAT DOES MODERN MAN DO? Maybe we must admit that Seneca lived a life full of contradictions, triumphs and failures but he never truly believed in the roles that he had to play and he was always ready to detach himself from material things,  devoid of illusions but also of bitterness.<br />That is why his work has survived the ages and has been celebrated for his modernity. I would say that his teachings are atemporal, and this is the best tribute to him. Maybe this is why<br />his letters were the bedside book of Montaigne. And mine.	2002-03-01
US	47468238	R3MV2IZ08FZD92	0805210407	377046405	The Trial	Books	5	43	54	N	N	KAFKA'S BEST: A TRIP INTO THE ABSURD	If you are into existencialism or if you are worried about the meaning of your subjective life and the absurdity of the workings of modern society, this is a book you must read. Or maybe, if you read this though provoking masterpiece, you will start to think seriously about these issues and other aspects of the individual, and its daily relationship with society, bureaucracy  and power.<br />This book was published poshumously in 1925 (Kafka died in 1924), and is  considered by many philosophers and critics the best that he wrote.<br />The description of solitude and of the alienation of the modern human being is at the core of all Kafka's opus. We could consider that K. anticipated some recurrent themes of the existencialists. His detailed and realistic description of the human individual existence reveals  its absurdity and irreality.  From a metaphysical perspective, the absurd is based on the absence of God and the impossibility to understand anything that goes beyond rationality. From the social standpoint, it stems from the suffocating or controlling character of modern society. Struck by these complexities, the individual can only seek refuge in his small personal reality, renouncing reassuring answers and certainties.	2002-03-01
US	47468238	R11FQBLHEZZIMY	0312269439	710414142	Stalingrad: The Infernal Cauldron, 1942-1943	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A  GOOD GENERAL OVERVIEW	For the non initiated, I would recommend this book about the battle that made the difference in the eastern front. It gives a good view of the final siege in Ostland, and is fact filled, the figures and orders of battle are there. I give it 4 stars because maybe there are too much numbers and figures, and this interferes with a linear reading of the history. Also, because there are some minor mistakes in the descriptions of some photographies, as a previous reviewer from Holland has pointed out. But if you have the time and the interest to live and suffer  the battlefield in detail, then read Anthony Beevor's Stalingrad. But then, you only get the visual part  through the emotions and images evoked in your mind by an accurate account of Dante's inferno on earth......	2002-02-28
US	47468238	R3D70WEEL7E9WX	0197262074	103494297	The Arguments of Time	Books	5	8	8	N	N	THE PARADOXES OF TIME (MINE , YOURS OR HIS?)	I read this book by chance. A lucky chance. It is an interesting collective work that presents nine contributions which address the issue of time, from different perspectives (in philosophy, physics, psychology, etc.). You will have to take some time to read it. The publication is edited by Jeremy Butterfield, a physics philosopher, and it was intended as a commemoration of the 100 years of the British Academy. In the first essay Lucas starts  stating that comprehension of time has always been difficult, but our incapability to handle the notion, has never been as clear as in the XXth century. In part, due to the failure of the efforts made to contrive a non temporal description of time and, in  part, due to the new questions posed by physics in this era. The main problems considered by  modern philosophy are posed by these questions: Are past, present and future real? Should a static or a dinamic conception of the world prevail? From the linguistical standpoint, what is the nature of temporal assertions? In other words, what is the relationship between statements  that assign a specific temporal location to an event, and statements (atemporal) that relate different events temporally without any reference to the time or temporal frame of the speaker? Lucas makes an excursus from McTaggart's thesis of the irreality of time, to the new findings in quantum dynamics and general relativity which present new perspectives and demand a new consideration of the problem. Then Tooley  presents his conception of time, that was at the base of his book Time,Tense and Causation. Currie's essay, on the other hand, deals more with literature's philosophy of time. Can Marcel Proust teach Us something about the nature of time and panta rei? Maybe not. Maybe we have to appeal to physic's philosophy of time. And for an elaboration  of the problem of time, in this field, we have the following essays by Torretti, Barbour, Butterfield &amp; Isham, and Kuchar. Finally, a better understanding of the problem of our perception of time, and how we speak about it, is discussed in the final two essays by Higginbotham and Treisman.<br />SO, IF YOU HAVE THE TIME TO THINK ABOUT TIME, MAKE TIME TO GET THIS BOOK ABOUT TIME, IN NO TIME............g of the problem of our perception of time, and how we speak about it, is discussed in the final two essays by Higginbotham and Treisman.<BR>SO, IF YOU HAVE THE TIME TO THINK ABOUT TIME, MAKE TIME TO GET THIS BOOK ABOUT TIME, IN NO TIME............	2002-02-28
US	47468238	R1QGKTJFH3K9H4	0618065822	284454677	Fasting, Feasting	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A DUAL VISION OF CULTURE AND COMPLEX FEELINGS	In this novel, very well written (maybe Desai's best), we find a brother and a sister, America and India. The former, represented trough the exploration of freedom (Arun, the brother studying in the U.S.) and the latter by the weight of tradition ( Uma, the sister in India) within the indian family. With the  usual precision and character sensibility, the author describes in depth a universe of contrasts, a duality of visions between two cultures, encompassing both the historical structures that give birth to different values and the permanent ligthness of human dreams, which seems to be universal.	2002-02-28
US	47468238	R1EI0KDIUGD4HQ	0140292012	172530663	A People's History of the Supreme Court	Books	5	8	12	N	N	FUNDAMENTAL CONTRIBUTE FOR THE LAY MAN	This book by professor Irons is fascinating. Very well written,  tells a tale about the workings of power and Institutions in the U.S.; the devices and remedies that, from time to time, were instrumented by the Supreme Court of Justice, in the past 200 years, to limit or reaffirm the constitutional rigths of the people, according to the evolution of legal and political thought of the justices of the Court and the changes in public opinion and  the mores, regarding fundamental issues at stake. It is a very interesting approach because not only provides sketches of the justices that constituted the soul of that body, but also deals with the persons that provided its food. The individuals that took a stand and fought for their rigths, are also portraited, and thus the history of the evolution of Constitutional law and the Supreme Court, aquires a meanigful and intimate perspective that you will not find in other books related with this subject. This book could be a nice introductory text to U.S. Constitutional law for students, but since it is a very accessible reading of fundamental issues that concern all citizens, I would recommend it strongly to the lay man, the common person in the street, so that he can better understand those that came before him, and those that will follow....	2002-02-27
US	47468238	R1BM6N1PLOAX6S	0415101131	464653460	A History of Rome under the Emperors	Books	1	56	59	N	N	MOMMSEN RESURRECTED ?	I love and respect the work of Theodore Mommsen (1818-1903). Anybody seriously interested in _the history of republican Rome_, classical philology, roman constitutional law and other subjects related with latin inscriptions, german medieval history, etc. cannot avoid a thorough consideration of his works (v.gr. his History of Rome, R&ouml;misches Staatsrecht, Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum).<br />His monumental contributions explain why he is the only  historian that was awarded in 1902 the Nobel Prize for literature.<br />Having  explained this, now I must say WHY I ONLY GIVE ONE STAR TO THIS BOOK.<br />FIRST AND FOREMOST, because THIS IS NOT A BOOK THAT WAS WRITTEN BY MOMMSEN, although it has been  published under his name. The three volumes of the History of Rome that M. wrote (mostly from 1854 to 1855) which I  recommend, tell the tale of Rome up until Caesar's victory at Tapsus (46 BC). That is to say, until the demise of the Republic. Mommsen never really intended to publish the IV volume about the Empire, and as the historian Alexander Demandt writes in the introduction of this book: \\"When Mommsen died on 1 November 1903 volume IV had not still been written..\\" But then he goes on alleging that Mommsen's History of the Emperors ranks alongside Kant's System of Pure Philosophy, Goethe's Nausicaa and Nietzsche's the Will to Power as one of the unwritten books of German literature. Mommsen clearly and publicly stated his discomfort with writing a book about the Imperial Period, for a number of reasons recorded in the introduction by Demandt. Maybe M. felt that he couldn't write it based on the references of Suetonius, Martial or Juvenal because they were biased and/or used  courtesan's gossip that could  seriously impair the objective treatment of the subject. Or maybe Mommsen didn't really make up his mind about what brougth about the collapse of the Roman Empire.  The historical truth is that Mommsen went on to write a V volume of the History of Rome, concerning the Roman provinces, but he never wrote the one about the emperors. His son in law congratulated M. in 1897 for not having written the book, a book that M. himself felt he was no longer able to write because he lacked the impudence of the young person, who will have his say on everything and challenge everything in order to qualify himself to be an historian.<br /> THE SECOND REASON FOR ALLOWING IT ONE STAR is that this is not a good history book: it is plagued with errors and fragmentary in its evolution. Why? because the content is not even based on something written  by M. and published post-mortem. It is based on class notes (or transcripts) taken by students (in one case by the student's father!) of lectures given by M. at the University of Berlin.  Two main bodies of classroom transcripts ( the Hensels and the anonymous  Wickert transcripts) have been edited and compiled by Demandt who, by the way, found the Hansels transcript of the lecture in a second-hand bookshop in 1980. This concoction not only constitutes a gross violation of Mommsen's explicit wishes,  but the final product is a bad example of literature and history as well. By the same token, somebody could exhume an anonymous transcript of an informal conversation by Alfred Nobel that could reveal  a special proviso or clause to revoke Mommsen's Prize for this supernatural book.....<br />IN THE THIRD PLACE, let us consider the tragicomical effects of this resurrection of M. This is a book that was not written by him or based on a non published manuscript, but contains a tale that he never wanted to write, published by a historian that aknowledges in his introduction that it is difficult to give a reliable answer to the question of what kind of picture of the age of emperors would have emerged had Mommsen published his IV volume!!! Certainly not the one in this book. The final irony, and not a surprising one given the circumstances, is that  Demandt dwells and revels in his introduction with the \\"hardly reasonable assessments\\", contradictions, \\"incongruities\\" and multiple and manifest errors committed by MOMMSEN THE RESUSCITATED !!!!!  The great german historian colossus should have been spared this posthumous affront. There are  much better books now about Imperial Rome and I sincerely hope that professor Demandt could write one by himself.e assessments\\", contradictions, \\"incongruities\\" and multiple and manifest errors committed by MOMMSEN THE RESUSCITATED !!!!!  The great german historian colossus should have been spared this posthumous affront. There are  much better books now about Imperial Rome and I sincerely hope that professor Demandt could write one by himself.	2002-02-27
US	47468238	R1IQ5A61L95UDN	0786704241	742406772	The Importance of Being a Wit: The Insults of Oscar Wilde	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A HANDY  AND NASTY LITTLE COMPILATION	This small book is very big in biting power. It is a compilation of witty and revealing bits of Oscar Wilde's genius. If you don't want to sift through all Wilde's works, or the dog ate his books that you had in the basement, or maybe at your age you don't remember the fundamental lessons that you read about style, wit and life by this English gentleman THEN YOU MUST BUY THIS BOOK.<br />A comprehensive little manual that will enable you to outwit your opponents and reach the epythome of the educated insult (which is very interesting because you will be able to start insulting your boss, without any consequences. Or maybe you will be promoted...)	2002-02-27
US	47468238	RN0ZT8YITR0DR	0314211675	648137377	The Law of Contracts (Hornbook Series, 4th Edition) (HORNBOOK SERIES STUDENT EDITION)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	VERY GOOD OVERVIEW OF U.S. CONTRACT LAW	This book is a must for lawyers and scholars from the continental law area because it provides a clear and general overview of the fundamental issues related with contract law.<br />For those that want to explore more in depth specific issues, then professor Farnsworth's Treatise on the subject would be the reference text. For legal students in the common law sistem it gives a very useful approach to the subject matter.	2002-02-27
US	47468238	R2Y3S695NYHP05	0140286764	325390853	The Search for the Giant Squid: The Biology and Mythology of the World's Most Elusive Sea Creature	Books	4	3	4	N	N	THE KRAKEN: MYTH OR REALITY ?	The scientific quest for the Kraken or Architeutis has been ongoing for more than 400 years now. The first giant squid was seen in 1545 in Malm&ouml;, Sweden and the last apparently in Tattori, Japan. But in mythology or oral history, we have to go back to Omer. The secrecy of this monster, more than 60 feet long, contributes to its success in classic literature and the movies (from Julius Verne to Holliwood). This book is a refreshing account that mixes marine biology with science fiction and can be read as any or both....	2002-02-22
US	47468238	R35G9MH3WSPV3H	0750922036	22092703	The Fastest Men on Earth	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A DELIGTHFUL BOOK FOR THE SPEED ADDICT	If you don't care for extreme accuracy and precise photo credits, but grew up with Breedlove, Arfons, Gabelich and the like in mind, then this is a book you must buy. The are a lot of details not easily available about man's quest for ultimate land speed and the elusive rupture of the sound speed barrier.<br />Who knew that a man driven sled broke the 1000 Kph. barrier in the 50's? A lot of anecdotes about Sir Malcolm Campbell, Noble et al.<br />with the company of previously unsee pictures justify fully the aquisition of this book for those who feel the need for speed. It is also very useful and readable for kids that are interested in the evolution of car and rocket technology, but still ride a bike...........	2002-02-18
US	47468238	R3D5XXIEMEXP0L	3829013280	274576302	A New History of Photography	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A HISTORY OF EVOLUTION	Yes, we all love Avedon, Bourke-White, Capa, Doisneau, etc. But do we all understand how photography evolved from gelatine and  silver plates, to Man Ray and then Newton? If you want to have a general perpective of the history of photography, and access to wonderful pictures not previosly divulged to the general public, I would recommend this comprehensive and well organized book	2002-02-18
US	47468238	R15XB4O0E0HSDB	0253326842	332084173	Anatomy of the Auschwitz Death Camp	Books	5	25	31	N	N	A  REVISIONIST'S  NIGTHMARE	This book contains several studies by different scholars, about the workings of the Auschwitz killing machine. Very well researched, it addresses different moral, legal, sociological and psychological issues about  the people that worked (S.S. and Sonderkommando) and those who died in the camp. It also provides valuable insigths and enough documented information about Auschwitz's infrastructure, that clearly eliminates any possibility to deny the reality of this tragedy.<br />If you are a historian or a scholar of the Holocaust or the S.S, you should have this book in your library. If you are a Holocaust denier, you must read this book, with an open mind. Then, you will be able to perhaps move on, to deny Pol Pot's killing fields...	2002-02-18
US	47468238	RO9TJLYHEUGR7	0679420266	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	7	7	N	N	NOT FOR THE NAIVE OR  TOTALLY HAPPY PERSONS	This work is a fundamental piece of 20th century existentialism, and has survived its time because evidently man still suffers and does some very silly things. To those who criticize the artificiality of Mersault's lack of emotions,  the materiality of its existence or the absurdity of the novel, I extend my congratulations, because they must surely live a full and emotionally nurturing live, maybe pursuing actively the American Dream. If you fit in this description, you may want to read a book that makes common sense, like a thriller or Harry Potter. OTHERWISE, READ THIS BOOK  IF YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS  a masterful depiction of the alienation of the modern human being, the anguish of existence and the absurdity of nothingness (maybe the gentlemen of the Nobel prize board didn't miss this point).	2002-02-18
US	47468238	R1MNBL0WYYKNID	0385494114	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	5	6	8	N	N	FOR THOSE WHO DOUBT AND THOSE WHO BELIEVE	This book permits to put in historical perspective some aspects of John Paul II's recent doctrines and the crisis of the Catholic Church. Wills documented call for the renewal of the institution and the clergy, and the rescue of the doctrine of the Fathers of the Church (St. Augustine and St. Thomas), in a modern conception, constitutes required reading for those who  love Jesus and want to see its Church grow.  Certain prejudices and mechanisms of deception that could have been explained in the past, according to the author find no place in these times of fundamentalisms and fanatical illusions, that are filling with grief and misery the world. While millions are starving, scores of innocent kids lie abandoned around the world, AIDS is the plague of the moment, and the number of new catholic priests is  smaller, maybe it is time to reassess, with the heart and the mind, Roman Catholic Church's stance on contraceptives. I recommend this book to anyone interested in the historical motives for the inception of the dogma of papal infallibility. But also read Hans Kung's works, for another perspective, regarding the theological doubts that dwell in a catholic's mind in modern times.	2002-02-18
US	47468238	R11HAYAZL7E439	0140445145	909088894	The Twilight of the Idols and the Anti-Christ: or How to Philosophize with a Hammer (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	GOD IS NOT DEAD: IT IS ANOTHER GOD WE MUST FIND !	This two works by one of the more influential philosophers of the end of the 19th century, must be read with a proviso. They were published posthumously  by Elisabeth, his sister, in a sequence conforming to her own  authoritarian views.<br />This said, the Antichrist is a must read for those philosophers concerned with the nihilistic (nihilismus) and  transmutation of all occidental values (Umwertung aller Werte) central aspects of Nietzche's philosophy. If you read them at face value, confusion migth  ensue and the intrinsic power of an effort to demonstrate the futility and perversion of certain occidental values is lost. Then the road opens for misrepresentations and the exploitation for propaganda and other purposes.  To put things in perspective, one must not forget that \\"God's death\\", according to N. is a metaphysical event consisting in the slaughter of God by the human being, for the sake of truth and religion itself. According to the author, God's death appurtains to the essence of cristianism because, by way of the interpretation of Plato's philosophy, this religion considers truth and God as exogenous or outherworld elements. As a consequence of this platonic view, the world itself and its Gods appear void of basis and truth, and therefore the nihilism of the modern man ensues. That God is dead is evident, but no man lives this event as a passage and liberation from metaphysical duality ( world and outher world), in order to reconcile with the earth and real life. So, steer clear of this book, if you are faint minded, unless you are looking for material to misuse or abuse. For the theologian and philosopher, on the other hand , this is required reading.	2002-02-18
US	47468238	R8YI8CPJ1QHS1	0786705922	708860351	Papa Hemingway	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A PORTRAIT OF A MAN	This is the best book that I have read about Hemingway as a man. It doesn't pretend to be (and is not ) a biography. It is an intimate and  deligthful portrait of Hemingway the fisherman, the hunter, the womanizer, the drinker, the gambler and all the things that really  meant something to him. Were can you get such a descriptive account of the pain and insecurity associated with a writer's creativity?  Without this book one cannot size the tragedy of a writer that, in his last years, was conscious of his inability to create great literature, but was condemned to live up to his myth and  his character. To those that criticize this book, on grounds of lack of objectivity, one must oppose that this is a book about Papa like the one that he,  when Paris was a moveable feast,  would have wanted to write about Hemingway.........After all, if Papa lived, he would have explained to all of us that time is precious and that he took Hotchner under his wings, wined and dined and shared intimate thoughs and moments with him, only in order to provide the young lad with good story writing material. And Hotchner has delivered!	2002-02-16
US	47468238	R3NR36GJDINC9W	0385425473	378897199	Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A SIMPLE STORY ABOUT HISTORY	If you don't have the time to read about China's history, or the disposition to sift  through the scholars works, but have the desire to learn about the social structure of this nation and the workings of the chinese family and human relations, in and outside China, then you must read this book. It is a personal, and at times poetic, account of the saga  of a family from the Empire, through the Kuomingtang period, the war, and Mao's regime. Very well written and moving, it is like a personal time machine, filled with the details of the hardships and personal sacrifices that the people, among titanic social and political changes, had to endure. It is in a sense a microcosmic tale, but one that helps  to understand in simple terms the background texture; the  causes and motivations for the radical transformations that China experienced in the last century. It also provides food for though, if you want to better understand the changes that will came in this century.....	2002-02-16
US	47468238	RQBNTUJIXLR7M	0905138805	189565175	Competition Driving	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A MUST FOR THOSE WHO KNOW EVERYTHING	Just when I though that there was no more room for improvement in my aggressive driving, after a championship title in karting in my youth and 20 years driving an assorted lot of racing and so called super cars, here cames Prost with this little jewel filled with practical hints and advise. Folks I guarantee that you will not waste your money with this one. After all no one is proficient in every discipline ( want did I really know about rallye driving ?)	2002-02-16
US	47468238	R2XJS0B3GDYM3M	0385499078	218243212	Body of Secrets: Anatomy of the Ultra-Secret National Security Agency	Books	3	1	1	N	N	ENEMY OF THE STATE REVISITED	This book is a mix of facts and controversial episodes in SIGINT.  But if you think that Enemy of the State is merely  a science fiction movie, and that computers evolved only because of private inventive or effort, then you should read this book. The influence of Government's extensive funding and research, under the NSA umbrella, upon the development of modern computers is exposed in its magnitude and purpose. The author also dwells with the episode of KFK assassination, which has more to do with the CIA than the NSA. Some interesting episodes are presented in a different light, but then we get a chapter that deals with the attack to the USS Liberty by the Israelis, which is still a very controverted issue.	2002-02-14
US	47468238	RAGM3ZQYEDP9G	055358135X	298857171	War of the Rats	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A GOOD  NOVEL; SHAKY HISTORICAL BACKGROUND	This book is an interesting novel that dwells about the individual struggle of two human beings,a german and a russian sniper, with totally different motivations and upbringing, against the background of an immense tragedy: the Battle of Stalingrad. For the general public, I would recommend it. However,the historical background is not accurate. The russian sniper's name (Zaitsev)should have been left out, because the man really was there, but using other weapons and doing other things.	2002-02-13
US	47468238	R4RVYIRXX7COZ	0140284583	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege: 1942-1943	Books	5	8	9	N	N	"THE BATTLE" REVISITED FROM THE FRONT	When we thougth that everything had already been said and written about Stalingrad's Krieg, here cames Beevor with an outstanding description of the battle that caused the German defeat on the eastern front. This book is very well written and reads like a novel, but contains a truthful and accurate account of the man to man, wall to wall combat, in the besieged Stalingrad. Drawing on material not available before to other historians Beevor's tale is new in many aspects and reveals some accurate information based on the records of the Soviet Army. The russians serving in the Wehrmacht outnumbered the italian and rumanian allies involved in the battle. More than 13,000 russians soldiers were executed by their own people on grounds of desertion.  Russian snipers in Stalingrad greatly contributed to the demoralization of the enemy and their deeds were fully exploited by the soviets propaganda machine (This is why the movie Enemy at the Gate is an interesting rendition of this aspect of the battle). The sheer numbers of the dead and dispersed has to qualify this event as an enormous military tragedy and a confirmation of Hitler's stubborness and lack of contact with the reality of the Eastern Front. If war must be fougth, soldiers and not politicians are the ones best suited to do it. To anyone seriously interested in history and WWII I would strongly recommend this book, because is a real depiction, day by day, of the incredible hardships that common soldiers had to endure during this battle and a poem about the utter stupidity and futility of man's war effort....MUST BUY	2002-02-13
US	47468238	R880BWN5OZTCE	0385316577	423279464	Follow Your Heart	Books	5	14	15	N	N	SIMPLE WRITING,DEEP FEELINGS	As a reader of Plato, Seneca and Hume, it was by accident that I stumbled with this book,in Rome's airport 5 years ago. Many have spoken about the stereothypes allegedly contained in this work by Tamaro. However, I believe that hardly any book can present, in such a simple manner, an intimate journey into the realities of real life (as opposed to the ideal perception of it and the future as a projection of expectations) and the complexity of  choices we are compelled to make in our existence, from the moral standpoint.  A refreshing  exploration about the reconciliating and liberating effect that truth, and the revelation of one's defects, can have upon others that are struggling to mark their own path, but find themselves paralized by the fear to act and, mostly, to err. A very ligth reading, but with profound impact upon those with sensibility enough to value poetry in prose form. It recalls intimate thoughts about one's relationship with its parents and grandparents in a moving and sometimes disturbing dimension. A MUST READ	2002-02-06
US	47468238	R3K4Y3KHPBLY76	0140187650	256512110	Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil	Books	5	9	11	N	N	HOW COULD IT HAPPEN ?	A lot has been written and said about the Holocaust. This small book by a respected philosopher about the trial of Eichmann in Jerusalem is the largest and most thought provoking of them all. Why? Because it analizes through the personal experience of an \\"employee\\" of the killing machine, the intimate aspect of evil, how banally can it stem out of the most ordinary persons. Rosseau wrote that \\"homo homini lupus\\" and Arendt clearly follows up. It also provides factual historical insight about how the Nazi solution to the jewish problem evolved from expatriation or relocation to physical annihilation. From another perspective, that of the victims, answers the question that many other authors ignore or circumvent. How so few (in the R.S.H.A. and S.S.) could find, control and deport so many ? In almost all the countries the hearding of the victims and their shipment could not have happened without the active participation of the Jewish Councils and other jewish authorities which were empowered by the Nazis for that purpose. The self delusion of the leaders of the jewish communities is clearly recorded by Arendt up to the appalling and pathetic case of Dr. Kastner in Hungary who saved 1,684 people at a cost of 476,000 victims. From a juridical standpoint, Arendt valiantly raises certain doubts about the fairness of the trial. It also analizes the political impact of Eichmann's veredict and its influence upon future trials (in Germany) of Nazi war criminals. THIS CONTROVERSIAL BOOK IS A MUST FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN THE TRAGEDY OF THE HUMAN CONDITION,THE POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS THAT LED TO EICHMANN'S ABDUCTION AND TRIAL AND THE REAL WORKINGS OF THE HOLOCAUST.	2002-02-05
US	47468238	R20V57HHCSKF2V	0967569109	673998712	An Eye for an Eye: The Story of Jews Who Sought Revenge for the Holocaust	Books	5	33	38	N	N	GUTS AND COMPASSION	It takes guts to research and write a book like this. From a personal perpective, it is a fascinating journey into the dark side of the human condition that recalls Rosseau's perception about \\"homo homini lupus\\". A gruesome and detailed account of an individual's motivations (Lola Potok) to participate in the ethnic cleansing of the Eastern Germans in Poland at the end of WWII. From a historical stand point, a revelation about a long hidden and obscured fact. The revenge jews took upon innocent German civilians, women and children in that context explains fully why there is and there will be not one Holocaust, the Nazi's, but many as long as people is moved by fanatism and hatred. The propaganda exploitation of \\"the Holocaust\\" by the Zionists to further the establishment of the State of Israel has called for the silencing of this and other incidences of atrocities and violations of human rigths by fanatical or fundamentalists. A must in order to put in historic perspective the treatment that the Hassidic movement's doctrine reserves for the palestinians, gentiles and other categories that interfere with the achievement of their totalitarian theocratic vision of the State of Israel. This book is also a tribute to the courage of its author, and the integrity of a man that by an act of compassion seeks to break the circle of violence putting forward historical facts, notwithstanding persecution by fanatical zionists and the efforts to silence his work by the publishing establishment. A MUST BUY !!!	2002-02-01
