US	47493255	RGOIW23M1MYFO	0465045219	200270487	Mind, Language And Society: Philosophy In The Real World (Masterminds)	Books	2	23	33	N	N	I am not sure I understand what all the praise is for...	In my mind the most unforgivable &quot;sin&quot; a philosopher can commit is the straw man fallacy, that is, accusing your opponents of holding positions they don't really hold and then proceeding to refute those points of view as a support for building your own positive position.  The second most unforgivable &quot;sin&quot; is to do all of this in a not-very-polite way.  In this book Mr. Searle is guilty of both of these sins.  In the opening pages of the book Mr. Searle says he has three objectives in writing: (1) to advance a series of claims about mind, language, and society; (2) to exemplify a certain style of philosophical analysis; (3) a series of passing observations about thenature of philosophical puzzlement.  Surprisingly Mr. Searle says very little about his own positive claims, although one would assume that to really understand his claims, we need to look at his other books.  As for objective two, his &quot;style&quot; is somewhat the opposite of objective and rational: his &quot;dialectic&quot; consists of an attack on opponents - one which occasionally borders on ad hominem vitriol - followed by a passing positive affirmation of his own claims; the third objective is really just a thinly veiled revelation that Mr. Searle has axes to grind and may be inclined to pause and grind his axes spontaneously and without warning.  <br />In regards to objective 2, Mr. Searle's methodology seems to consist of a mockery of opponents and an exhuberant, emotionally charged language (time and again Mr. Searle tells us how &quot;embarrassed&quot; he is for his opponents for holding such &quot;obviously&quot; wrong positions) combined with purposeful &quot;straw man&quot; style distortions and misrepresentations of diverse sets of opponents under collective rhubrics (such as that &quot;idealists&quot; like Hegel, Rorty, Kuhn and Derrida (!?!) deny the existence of a real world); to me this is hardly what can be called a &quot;refutation.&quot;  Further, I fail to see, even after all of Mr. Searle's effort, how an alleged refutation of one's opponents constitutes a successful defense on one's own positive claims.  <br />It is one thing if Mr. Searle simply were guilty of misunderstanding some of his opponents.  But Mr. Searle's style is so incredibly arrogant, so incredibly self-assured and aggressive in its mockery of others (&quot;feeble&quot; is a favorite adjective he uses over and over again to describe his opponents' arguments), that I am left feeling rather impatient to find the diamond in the rough of Mr. Searle's writing.  I don't mean to say that his ideas don't have substance, but rather that it is so difficult to seperate the substance from the vitriol that one quickly loses patience and may be inclined to seek philosophical substance elsewhere.	2002-07-16
US	47493255	R3PIFFTUEFCI6R	0521421233	827498436	Using Spanish: A Guide to Contemporary Usage	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An innovative way of organizing &quot;Grammar&quot;	This book was an amazing tool in my study of Spanish.  It is not a traditional grammar, but it is still amazingly quick, succint, and too-the-point.  It is technical book, in the sense that it doesn't waste time or space with those corny dialogues and phrases that seem to abound in beginner books.  Instead, this book fills a critical gap: what you need to know about the structure and syntax of the language in order to go from low-intermediate speaker to advanced fluency.  Most intermediate-advanced books resemble &quot;readers&quot;, this book is the opposite.  There is a wealth of information on false cognates, &quot;registers&quot; (ways of speaking according to the situation), and - my favorite - the right prepositions to use after nouns and verbs, a constant source of errors for non-native speakers who have trouble grasping how &quot;pensar en&quot; means &quot;to think about&quot;.  This book was just what I needed to move from intermediate foreign Spanish speaker to a fluent speaker.  It is especially accessible and meaningful for language learners who - like me - actually find &quot;grammar&quot; to be one of the exciting and valuable parts of language learning.	2002-06-20
US	47493255	R29Z2IQ0KPKXSN	0684844419	9851575	The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order	Books	3	9	34	N	N	Latin American &quot;Civilization&quot;	OK, I haven't read the book yet, but reading editorial reviews, it alreadys seems suspicious that Prof. Huntington is calling &quot;Latin American&quot; a civilization as distinct from &quot;Western&quot; civilization as Japanese or Arabic civilization.  What?  Did I miss something?  I know there are cultural differences between Latin Americans, whose cultures are largely derived from Iberian cultures, and us northern Americans, who get most of our culture from the English, but are we really different civilizations?  Latin Americans generally speak European languages, practice European religions, wear standard Eurpean clothes, obey laws based on European justice systems, follow European norms of government, etc... And while there are points of native American cultural persistence in various communities and countries, these points of cultural persistence are unique exceptions and are not homogeneous (Mayans in Chiapas are not of the same &quot;civilization&quot; as Quechua-speakers in Peru).  So on what grounds are Latin Americans considered non-western?  Because they have a history of running into conflict with the Anglo-Americans?  I guess calling &quot;Latin America&quot; a distinct civilization just conveniently gives weight to Huntington's thesis, since if he included Latin America as a &quot;western&quot; civilization, he would have had to develop a framework and theory of intra-civilization conflict as well...<br />I will try to read this book with an open mind, but the argument that Latin America is a non-western civilization truly leaves me baffled.	2002-05-29
US	47493255	R1ZIUZYVJN4HMM	0394435613	255977650	The Masters and the Slaves: A Study in the Development of Brazilian Civilization	Books	5	19	20	N	N	One of the Three "Classical" perspectives on Brazil	Freyre's Masters and Slaves forms what is considered by many to be a trilogy of books published in the 1930's that revolutionized Brazilian Studies. The other are two books,[by other authors]... Freyre, the most popular and readable of the three, was a Pernambucano (from the sugar cane regions around Recife) and often blurs the distinction between Brazil as a whole and sugar-cane regions of Brazil. His methodology reflects his education, a US oriented 1930's anthropological perspective (he was a student of Franz Boas). This book in particular treats a very specific historical event: the development of a sugar-based agricultural economy in late 1500s, early 1600s in northeastern coastal Brazil. The book makes the generalization that Brazilian culture as a whole evolved from this cultural base, and places little importance on the parallel development of cattle-based cultures in the northeastern interior or the primitive jungle trading activities of Sao Paulo's city fathers (Raposo Tavares, etc).<br />Because of its focus on a very provincial-specific economy and culture, I would criticize Freyre for offering a very incomplete study of \\"Brazilian Civilization\\" in this book. In his defense, however, this book is too often read as a stand-alone study, when in fact Freyre intended for it to form a trilogy with another two books...The former traces how the rural sugar-based culture of early northeastern Brazil affected and was affected by the emergence of cities and urban life-patterns in places like Recife, Salvador, and Rio de Janeiro in the mid 1600s through the end of the 18th century. The latter book follows the study further, through the independence period and especially the twilight of the Empire, establishment of the Republic in the 188o's. If you read one, I recommend all three books to appreciate Freyre's thesis, that the original sugar-culture that developed and was discussed in Masters and Slaves had a lasting impact on Brazil's evolution as a whole, even in areas and regions where sugar cane and slavery were never established bases for economic development. This vision of Brazil remains incomplete without an understanding of Sao Paulo and the south, a region which today is arguably the strongest center of influence in the country. To complete that, I would recommend some books by [other authors]areas and regions where sugar cane and slavery were never established bases for economic development. This vision of Brazil remains incomplete without an understanding of Sao Paulo and the south, a region which today is arguably the strongest center of influence in the country. To complete that, I would recommend some books by [other authors]	2002-02-13
US	47493255	R18SY3SW3752IV	1864500891	437428980	Lonely Planet Mexico, 7th Edition	Books	1	163	178	N	N	Still One Star after all these years	I reviewed this book a while ago and didn't like it one bit.  I just got back from three week road trip driving from Mexico City to Huatulco and back.  I brought three books with me: a borrowed copy of LP Mexico, my out-dated copy of Joe Cumming's Mexico Handbook (Avalon / Moon), and Bruce Whipperman's Oaxaca Handbook (Avalon / Moon)... The trip reconfirmed what I have always said about LP: they are over-used, under-researched, and too many people rely on them as if to travel without LP is a sacrilege.  Some LP titles might be very good, but LP is now a huge multi-million dollar publishing house with hundreds of titles, not all of which are of equal quality.  This is not to say that Avolon's huge, 2 inch thick super Mexico handbook is great either.  There is too much brevity in the Mexico Country Handbook... too much editing and cutting.  For Mexico I have come to the conclusion that you cannot write a 5 star guidebook and try to cover the whole country.  There is simply too much to cover in one book.  I live in San Diego and so I appreciate the other reviewer's comment that not including Puerto Nuevo and Rosarito in the LP book is a MAJOR oversight.  The best book by far was Bruce Whipperman's Oaxaca book: it was incredibly detailed, covered the entire state, and left practically no stone unturned.  I have some criticisms of that book as well (see my review), but if you are going to Mexico, unless you plan on covering the entire country, buy Avalon's Moon Handbooks for specific regions (Oaxaca, Pacific Coast, Mexico City, etc).  They are much more accurate, newer, and more complete in terms of the number of attractions covered and the details about each one.  The only problem is that there are not enough regional titles to cover the entire country.  good luck!	2002-02-04
US	47493255	R1XZH64BZD9DQJ	1566913314	447296424	Moon Handbooks Oaxaca: Mountain Craft Regions, Archaeological Sites, and Coastal Resorts (Moon Oaxaca)	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Finally a guide book that does justice to Oaxaca	I know of no better guide book to Oaxaca: not the Moon Mexico Guide, not the Lonely Planet guide. This book is simply the best book on Oaxaca in English. The problem with the other books is that Mexico is simply too big and rich: you can't fit the entire country in one volume without skimping on something great. That is where Oaxaca and Moon Handbooks' other regional publications come in. This book takes its time, reports on every single corner of the state, and tries to be as thorugh as possible. I only wish there were guidebooks as detailed and complete for Mexico's other states.<br />There are a few complaints I have though: there is no mention of Santiago Matatlan, the world's Mezcal capital, even though the town is full of Mezcal stores selling an amazing variety of local distills. Also, the road from Oaxaca to Salina Cruz is long and dreary, about 5 hours of driving... and the few small towns along the way often only offer very suspect dining and rest options. It would be nice if there were mention of a place or two where pitstops could be done. (Also the book makes no effort to identify where gas stations are located on Oaxaca's long and lonely highways) I ended up finding a good spot to eat in El Camaron, but not with the guidebook's help. Also, readers of the guidebook would think that there are only two ways to drive to Huatulco: via the Oaxaca-Pochutla highway or via the Oaxaca-Salina Cruz highway. There is no acknowledgement that the safest route from Mexico City to Huatulco actually circumvents the high and rugged Oaxaca mountains (Sierra Madre Sur) altogether, passing through flat Veracruz state before heading south across the equally flat Tehuantepec isthmus.<br />All in all, though, this is the very best source of info on Oaxaca state in English!	2002-01-30
US	47493255	R3B9TGL49LAUBP	1562614193	800319111	The DEL-People's Guide to Mexico, 25th Anniversary Edition: Wherever You Go There You Are! (People's Guide to Mexico, 11th ed)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Too much story-telling, but otherwise a great guidebook	First, Carl Franz has for decades been trying to fill a void in the Mexican guidebook market. Most English-language guidebooks to Mexico operate under the assumption that English-speaking tourists will be going to Mexico under circumstances similar to the circumstances in which English speakers travel to India or Japan: they will be arriving by plane, using buses, taxis, and maybe a rent-a-car to travel, and will be leaving be plane. As a result of this orientation, these books ignore large parts of the country and assume you wont ever need to know how to get your car fixed in a small town. Such an orientation might be justified for an Australian guide publisher like Lonely Planet. Even though many Americans fly to Mexico and would never think of driving in the country, enough of us drive across the border every day (and keep driving south from there) to justify the need for a more detailed, culturally astute guidebook taking you through the practicalities of \\"surviving\\" in rural and urban Mexico. This book tries to fill that void. Carl Franz has been driving to Mexico for decades and has a lot of practical wisdom to share with would-be road warriors. <br />With that said, there are several criticisms to make about the book:<BR>1) over 50% of the pages in the book are filled with stories, not all of them very good or amusing. In his defense, a few of the stories Carl Franz writes are quite amusing, but I would have liked them better if I did not feel like he was using his guidebook as a vehicle for pushing his amateur travelogue narratives onto readers...<BR>2) The stories over all set a tone which borders on the culturally condescending at times. The sub-theme of many of the stories is \\"Oh those silly little Mexicans do things so backwards and silly me for assuming they should do things the way I would do them; the culturally sensitive attitude I should have is to revel in their backwardness (and tell my friends about it when I get home).\\" This sort of attitude istedious at best, offensive at its worst. Mexican society has faults (some very big) and there is nothing wrong with citing them as faults. But some American travelogues identify as faults of Mexican society quirky differences which are neither faults nor virtues (the cliche favorite seems to be complaints about Mexican traffic cops... even Carl Franz can't resist a few dull predictable stories about paying traffic cops in the street for fines real or invented) <BR>3) the \\"Wherever you go, there you are\\" attitude, though congenial to some, rubs me the wrong way. While wandering haphazardly from town to town with no point or purpose other than the experience itself might sound adventurous, it really doesn't make for very rewarding vacations in Mexico. Even if you want to avoid the high rise beach hotels, there is value in planning a visit to a certain town on a specific day to experience the town fiesta or turning off the highway at a certain spot to visit the ruins of a historically significant ex-hacienda. The Franz travel philosophy seems to border on the Kerouac-ish it its celebration of aimless wandering. For the traveler with an interest in history and culture, Franz's style will not work well.<br />This book is worth reading, just skip the stories when they get dull, and be sure to complement it with more destination-oriented guidebook unless wandering aimlessly from town to town until you find something you like is your idea of good travelling.	2001-12-31
US	47493255	R32UAMLJUB2BQZ	013040652X	998806102	The Dark Side of Valuation: Valuing Old Tech, New Tech, and New Economy Companies	Books	5	34	36	N	N	The best book so far on valuation from the investor's view	Although much of the organization and explanation of valuation techniques presented here repeats the presentation in Damodaran's previous books, he does two things which make this the better book than the previous books: 1) he discusses the role of &quot;tech&quot; companies in our economy and he selects 5 specific companies which serve as his examples in every chapter and 2) he makes reference to excel spreadsheets (available for free download on his web page) which he has prepared to allow readers to apply what they are learning immediately and with a minimum of set-up time.  As tech companies play a larger and larger part in our economy, the specific quirks and issues related to the operation of tech businesses and the impact of those industry-specific issues on the valuation process become more important for us.  One might argue that all companies, whether they are wine makers or processor makers, face industry-specific valuation issues which do not affect companies in other industries, and in light of that, many issues discussed here might not be relevant to the wine makers.  But tech is so important to us now that we can no longer afford to use generic, non-tech specific techniques in the face of an increasingly tech-heavy stock market.  <br />As for the reviewer who compained that Damodaran doesn't do enough work in real option theory: Damodaran says in this book exactly what needs to be said about real option theory: that it has very limited applications (which is not to say that it is not revolutionary within those limited applications) and that the push to broaden the use of real option valuation beyond its traditional applications can more often than not constitute misuse and abuse of the models.  Not every investment contains options, and not all of those options have value, to paraphrase Damodaran himself.  Damodaran doesn't ignore real options, of course: he calls them contingency claims (as they technically should be called) and dedicates a chapter toexplaining there use and abuse.  Using real options, when it comes down to it, involves building and solving partial differential equations based on stochastic processes.  As any actuary or financial analyst could confirm, teaching stochastic processes presupposes a very strong math base and still would require an entire book.  Damodaran did the right thing by limiting himself to a single, illustrative chapter.<br />The best part of this book is that thanks to Damodaran's congenial and accessible ability to write, this book can be read and prove valuable to people with a variety of needs.  As an MBA student this book has been invaluable.  But I even gave this book as a gift to my brother, a decidedly non-financial person, to replace his countless &quot;How to Invest&quot; books sitting on his bookshelf.	2001-11-09
US	47493255	RIP125NVBHMGO	0071356150	515459457	Valuing A Business, 4th Edition	Books	4	30	32	N	N	Good technique, directed at the professional practitioner	I take issue with the reviewer who suggested that Tom Copeland/McKinsey's book \\"Valuation\\" is better than this one or is more directed at valuaing big businesses.  ...  On the other hand, it should be said that valuation techniques do not differ between big companies and small companies (especially if big/small companies are publically traded).  Valuation techniques vary depending on (a) what sort of asset is being valued (public equity, vs. private equity, vs. business assets as a whole, etc) and (b) why valuation is being done (for M&A, litigation between business partners, divorce, ESOPs, for equity investment/divestment).  If an investor is valuing a $50 Billion public company and a $50 million public company, the technique used for both is (probably) the same.  <br />If anything, this book does an excellent job in reminding us of the diversity of valuation techniques in use, and the diversity of reasons for doing valuations.  Given the frequency with which privately held companies are bought, one would think that knowing how to value companies whose stock is not publically traded is useful for general businesspeople, not just accountants and attorneys.  But if you absolutely insist that you just want to know how to value publically traded companies and don't give a hoot for calculating \\"private equity discounts\\" or \\"minority shareholder discounts\\", then I would recommend Aswath Damodaran's books \\"Damodaran on Valuation\\", \\"The Dark Side of Valuation\\" or \\"Investment Valuation\\". Damodaran, professor of Finance at NYU, actually uses the same techniques taught here, but applied to public equity investing and with different names (for example, what is called the \\"Market approach\\" here is just what Damodaran calls \\"relative valuation\\" in a different context).	2001-10-18
US	47493255	R2PETYR73JTKBB	0802133908	163605681	Pedro Paramo	Books	5	13	14	N	N	In one book a career that surpasses Carlos Fuentes	I hope not to offend Carlos Fuentes too much if he by chance reads this, but in my estimation this book is the work of art Carlos Fuentes has been struggling to write for his entire career.  Being a Mexican novelist must be very difficult these days, because this is the novel that sets the standard for what a great Mexican novel can be.  This is the only book (other than a collection of short stories) that Juan Rulfo ever wrote.  But with this book Rulfo has guaranteed his place in the history books as one of the most important writers in 20th century Mexico, or the entire Spanish speaking world for that matter.<br />The book is a series of dozens of brief narratives, with no clues as to who is speaking or what the time frame is.  Characters come and go and narrate their versions of events and only after you have captured a mental sense of the entire book and all of its narratives do you begin to notice links between the narratives and clues as to what the story is really about.  That is why a lot of reviewers insist on a second reading, just to get a clear sense of what the story being told is really all about.<br />The story itself picks up on a long and widespread tradition of Latin American fiction, the regionalist narrative.  From Brazil to Mexico examples abound of writers who have attempted to capture folkways or rural speech styles in their prose.  If you know Spanish, nothing compares to reading this book in the original.  A friend of mine whose parents came from a small village in northern Michoacan not far from where this novel takes place once got a chuckle when he first read a few pages of my copy of the book and said &quot;You know, that is really the way people talk down there.&quot;  He later read the book and told me that he couldn't help but imagine this novel occuring in his own parents town, that is how strong the sense of place is that is created here.  This book is a snapshot of life in western Mexico (Colima, Michoacan, Jalisco) around the time of the revolution and the time of the Cristeros.<br />But Rulfo doesn't use &quot;post-modern&quot; fiction techniques for the sake of being clever.  The disruptions and confusion that surge out of the narrative parallel the disruptions and loss of sense of order that Rulfo narrates: the aftermath of the Revolution and the government crackdown on the Catholic Church (as also told in Graham Greene's &quot;The Power and the Glory&quot;) led to a war (&quot;The Cristero Revolution&quot;) between faithful villagers and the federal government supposedly protecting them from the &quot;opiate of the masses.&quot;  Rulfo once said he was inspired to write &quot;Pedro Paramo&quot; when he returned as an adult to the small town where he was born, only to discover that in his extended absence the town had become a ghost town.  The economic changes that emerged after the Revolution in Mexico destroyed an old way of life, and started a long process of emmigration to the cities or to the United States that to this day continues unabated.  But this isn't a historical or sociological document, it is an amazing work of art and whether you read it in English or Spanish, it should be appreciated first as such.	2001-06-26
US	47493255	RVQIUE95WCIGP	081661251X	980571593	Literary Theory: An Introduction Second Edition	Books	1	12	42	N	N	What is wrong with a little Eagleton-ism?	To the reviewer who defended Eagleton: let me point out the fundamental flaw of Eagleton's (and most Marxist/post-structuralist) thinking:  <br />In the introduction Eagleton tells us that disinterested statements of fact such as &quot;This cathedral was built in 1612&quot; are in fact subjective value judgements.  He writes, &quot;in this sense, there is no possibility of a wholly disinterested statement.&quot;  &quot;The claim that knowledge should be 'value-free' is itself a value-judgement.&quot;  <br />I ask myself, are these not themselves statements of fact?  If we accept as true statements the above statements, does that mean that the truth content of such statements is nil?  Eagleton's (subjective) point is that the truth content is irrelevant because we cannot escape the subjectivity of the statements.  The only way out of the vicious circle is to assume that somehow, Eagleton's &quot;subjective value-judgements disguised as statements of fact&quot; get closer to the truth than other statements of fact made by others.  But what does that imply?  That Eagleton's values are more truthful than other people's values.  So Eagleton has built a logical castle on the principal that if you are to accept Eagleton's arguments regarding judgements and statements of fact as true, this means that anything Eagleton says is more true than what someone else who denies the subjectivity of statements of fact could say. Therefore, in a whirlpool of circularity, you have to accept Eagleton as right a priori if you are to engage in his arguments at all.  But if he is write, there is nothing to contest and the case closes with Eagleton having the first, last, and final word... all because you accepted his statement that statements of fact are subjective value judgements in the intro of this book.	2001-06-25
US	47493255	R35WV0H9IF08W1	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	11	13	N	N	1,000 words aren't enough to review this book...	When you finish this book, you will have a feeling that you have just read something very important, a &quot;great novel&quot;, but you will be at a loss to recall what was so meaningful about the book.  This is the curious effect of Garcia Marquez' writing style.  Garcia Marquez learned to write by imitating many of Western culture's &quot;key&quot; texts (the Bible, Rabelais, Faulkner, the 18th century English novelists, etc), and the influence of these texts shows very strongly.  <br />From the Bible and from Rabelais (and presumably from his grandmother and other small town story tellers he listened to as a child) Garcia learned how to narrate through lists and how to use hyperbole to unsettle the reader.  The results are humorous, and as we read Garcia, texts like the Bible echo and resonate in the back of our minds, without being identified consciously.  Because of this stylistic quality, the words &quot;biblical&quot; and &quot;rabelaisian&quot; have been used many times to describe this book. <br />Another fascinating aspect of Garcia's style is the ruptures between the time of events narrated and the time of narrative.  Someone well-versed in Gerard Genette's &quot;Narrative Discourse&quot; could have a field-day picking apart all of the ways in which Garcia uses normal narrative to create multiple threads of story which wont get resolved for many pages.  There is very little dialogue in this novel, because there is a compactness of time which is necessary to cover so many years and so many generations of narrative succintly.  Because of the games played with narrative time, this book has been called &quot;post-modern.&quot;<br />But the most talked about stylistic feature of the book is Garcia's &quot;magic realism&quot;, a term invented by readers who couldn't quite identify explicitly what it was about the novel that made it seem so curiously exagerated yet realistic at the same time.  A careful reading, and you will discover that there is nothing &quot;realist&quot; in the 19th century sense of the word about this narrative.  Without dialogue, our entire notion of the story is colored by the narrator and what the narrator shares with us.  This is an anti-Hemingway &quot;all-telling, no showing&quot; narrative with a curious result.  Time and again our emotional reactions to the events are dictated by the third person narrator's suspiciously subjective adjectives and omniscience into the minds of characters.  We are told that so-&amp;-so was astonished upon seeing X or that the inventions brought by the gypsies were amazing.  The world described in this book is heavy with words like &quot;incredible&quot;, &quot;amazing&quot;, &quot;inexpicable&quot;, &quot;astonishing&quot;... you get the idea.  Eventually you are lulled into letting the narrator dictate your emotional responses to the events described, rather than formulating your own response to such events.  The narrator tells you someone thought something was marvilous, and it seems so to you, the reader.  Pehaps this is always the case with reading.  In this case it is more pronounced than normal since the narrator's vision is marked by naivete, superstition, and a child-like pre-rational amazement with all things possible and impossible in this world.  Such innocence is infectious.  The result, you too will feel something strangely magical about the seemingly matter-of-fact world the narrator describes.<br />But beyond the top-quality narrative brilliance of this novel, thanks to Faulkner Garcia has created a mythical Latin American &quot;everyplace&quot; located in no easily identifiable country.  Although Garcia doesn't set the story in any real setting, the local-color element of this story is impressive.  Because Macondo, the setting of the story, is nowhere in Latin America, Macondo is, in a sense, everywhere in Latin America.  That, perhaps, more than Garcia's delightful &quot;magic realist&quot; narrative playfulness, is what makes this novel truly the quintesential Latin American narrative of the 20the century.	2001-06-01
US	47493255	R3UDFQCMK114B2	0875848451	640233741	Real Options: Managing Strategic Investment in an Uncertain World (Financial Management Association Survey and Synthesis)	Books	2	60	64	N	N	Shamelss self-promotion	This book is another good example of a phenomenon I call \\"Fad-peddling\\" at its worst.  \\"Real Option Valuation\\" is just a fancy new name consultants-for-hire have made up to describe a set of problems economists like Dr. Pindyck have called \\"contingency claims\\" problems for years.  Given the history of the two terms, I prefer \\"contingency claims\\", because of its record as a term used by economists in academic journals and because \\"real options\\" sounds too much to be like some new fad, like \\"reengineering\\" or \\"liberation management.\\"  <br />Most of the other reviews are absolutely right: this book seriously lacks any quantitative explanation.  No need to look for kind words; this is a serious oversight.  And yes, this book does read like a long sales resentation.<br />While the authors adequatley describe broadly how economists and financial executives solve contingency claims problems (generally using binomial methods, simulation, or partial differential equations), they don't teach any of these methods in any useful way.  At best, after reading this book, you will be able to recognize whether or not your organization has any \\"real options\\". <br />Beyond the quantitative short-comings of this book, however, there are some flawed fundamentals about their whole approach: this book treats real options as a new finance panacea for the 1990's, and suggests that the world of finance in 20 years will be a very different place because of these revolutionary ideas.  Contingency claims problems are limited to a very specific set of economic phenomena with specific criteria.  If the criteria are not present, contingency claims models fall apart.  Consider the amount of abuse something as well-known as the black-scholes option pricing equation is subject to when it is applied to \\"real options valuation\\": the black-scholes equation is a function of two variables, primarily: time and stock price variance.  When you take this equation and try to apply it to, say, the valuation of an option to market patented drug, how do you define variance and time?  Time in an option contract is fixed in the contract.  Variance is empirically observable from stock prices.  Plus, how do we know that the value of drug patents resembles stock prices (log-normal process)?  What if it is more like the behavior of a commodity (mean-reverting process)?  And where are we going to get the data from anyway?  In that case, the black-scholes equation needs to be abandoned and an alternative partial differential equation needs to be developed.  But who is going to do that?  At what cost?  Obviously, at a certain point the benefits derived from exactly modelling your options is eclipsed by the cost and effort involved in doing so.  The scariest part, however, happens when you realize that the greater the variance (risk) and the longer the timeframe chosen, the greater the final value of a project or investment.  Now the project manager who wants to sell ice to the eskimos has the quntitative methods available to justify such a high risk project. (Just think, the project manager could sell this project to top management as a long-term investment anticipating the melting of the polar ice caps, when the price of ice in Greenland is expected to go through the roof). <br />This book tries to reach too far, suggesting that phenomena which never should be valued as contingency claims can be valued as such.  Real options (or contingency claims) are best treated as a very specialized set of quantitative techniques used to model very specific phenomena which a company may or may not be subject to see \\"Investment under Uncertainty\\" by Dixit and Pindyck for an inventory of those phenomena).  Push the envelope too far and the paper tears as it does here.	2001-05-29
US	47493255	RYRIUQS9HF40M	0070696284	506364492	Million Dollar Consulting, New and Updated Edition: The Professional's Guide to Growing a Practice	Books	3	61	69	N	N	For the Lone Wolf	I enjoyed this book.  As other reviewers have pointed out, a lot of the advice given is just good ol' common sense for the professional service provider in general (I can easily see some of the tips given here being used by lawyers, accountants, etc to sell their services to business).  Plus, the idea of moving from hour-based billing to value-based billing is invaluable.  As a sole practioner, you can only bill so many hours a day... but if you can add value and charge for the value added... &quot;ah, there's the rub.&quot; Alan Weiss here provides a clear sense of the mechanics and operation of your typical small professional services firm, with a well-written emphasis on customer retention and relationship marketing.   <br />Weiss gives no advice on growing a practice into an organization that will outlive its founders.  There is only advice on improving your personal bottom line.  In fact, after reading it, I realize Weiss's formula for making a million is simple: generate business revenues in excess of a million and keep expenses as low as possible so that you can pocket the rest as dividends and/or salary.  That works fine for the individual practioner S corp / sole proprietor, but what if you are already in the consulting business and you are looking for ways to grow, add new services, increase firm reputation, or otherwise move away from the lone wolf image?  Taking a million in dividends out of your practice each year doesn't leave much for growth or future investment.  What Weiss doesn't tell you is that consulting (as opposed to public speaking, a distinction Weiss sometimes forgets) is subject to economies of scale.  That is why formerly one-person shops like McKinsey are now huge global firms.  Is it better to run your own shop for 20 years, withdrawing all excess earnings as dividends to support your lavish lifestyle or is it better to reinvest most of those earnings by adding new services, increasing clients, hiring more top-notch staff so that by thetime you are ready to retire, your firm is worth $30 million based on expected future cash flows? Weiss wrote this book for the former, and gives little advice on how to achieve the latter.	2001-05-25
US	47493255	R39QADLOWLCDL5	0192836226	342577083	A Sentimental Education: The Story of a Young Man (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	60	65	N	N	A superb translation of a perfect novel	This is simply one of the most satisfying novels I have ever read.  And the Parmee translation is excellent - there is not an awkward word or phrase anywhere in the text.  Flaubert loved to write fiction which captured the pettiness, baseness, and stupidity of human relations.  Misanthrope might be too harsh a word for Flaubert, but he certainly didn't have much patience for the sort of crass greed and shallow, unquestioning conformity he witnessed as a young man in Paris in the Revolution of 1848.  I understand that Flaubert started working on this novel very early in his career, but abandoned it several times before finally bringing it to pres in 1869.  The care and time Flaubert took in writing this novel shows, especially when you compare it to Madame Bovary, Flaubert's famous book.  Bovary is an easier book to &quot;understand&quot;.  Flaubert may have felt misunderstood.  Bovary can be read as an attack on the bourgeoisie, their dull, conformist lives, and the stupid and ultimately self-defeating passions they indulge in an effort to escape from the suffocating monotony of their existence.  Or it can be read, as most readers tend to read, as a morality tale about the tragic consequences of adultery.  The Sentimental Education sets the record straight, however.  Flaubert was not a moralist preaching on the sins of adultery in Bovary.  This novel makes that obvious.  Here Flaubert again takes up an attack on the bourgeoisie, this time leaving no room for misunderstanding.<br />I once met someone (a literature student specializing in 19th century fiction, no less!) who complained to me how boring she thought the Sentimental Education was.  So boring that she never bothered to finish it.  To this day I believe she approached the book in the wrong frame of mind.  She may have been expecting some Balzac-ish bildungsroman, about the provincial who comes to Paris and grows into a society man.  Instead, she discovered a novel about a dull provincial who comes to Paristhinking he is going to grow into a society man, but is such a poor judge of human character and relations that he meets defeat at every corner.  But it is one thing to say the book is dull.  It is another to point out that Frederic Moreau is a very dull human being.  But then, we remember... we know people like Moreau.  At some point or another, we all may have even behaved like Moreau.  And we know and live in a society composed of people like the rest of the characters.  Moreau's world is the world of bourgeoisie.  150 years later, in another language on another continent, I am surprised to see how little some things have changed.  <br />Pierre Bourdieu, the French sociologist, has analyzed this novel extensively (see &quot;The Rules of Art&quot; and &quot;The Field of Cultural Production&quot;) because he finds the document perfect for sociological analysis of the bourgeoisie and the intellectual communities that developed in Paris in 1848.  Flaubert had a brutally frank eye and pen, quick to capture the most subtle social implications in a single gesture.  After reading Flaubert and Bourdieu, I am haunted by how persistent and relevent Flaubert's vision of society and human relations continues to be.	2001-05-25
US	47493255	RFUC57BBI0JN4	0070525587	65702893	Stop Telling, Start Selling: How to Use Customer-Focused Dialogue to Close Sales	Books	5	71	73	N	N	Great advice (if you can assimilate it)	The problem with any &quot;how to sell&quot; book like this is, until you can integrate the advice given here so that it comes naturally to you, you will sound as mechanical and forced as some of the &quot;tellers&quot; Richardson criticizes.  I used to sell big-tiicket business-to-business, and I can say the advice here is timeless: engage your customer, identify what your customer's needs are and position your product so that the customer realizes that your product meets their needs.  Of course, if the customer doesn't need your product, then maybe you need to learn some of those &quot;hard-ball sales&quot; techniques (or find a better product!).  No amount of customer empathy, listening, or product positioning will help you overcome a customer-product mismatch.  Which brings me to a point: although Richardson argues against this, I think playing hardball has a place in negotiations; remember, the party you are negotiating with doesn't always have to feel warm and cozy inside in the process.  A true persuader will know when to be soft and fluffy and when to apply the pressure.<br />Also, the whole paradigm-replacement languuage (&quot;we are moving into a new age of selling...&quot;) is corny.  The advice Richardson is giving is not new or revolutionary, as she claims.  But she has succeeded in organizing a lot of really good sales principles in a clear and coherent way which can easily be appreciated by readers.<br />I read this book together with Richardson's &quot;Selling by Phone&quot; and frankly, one is just a rehash of the other.  Richardson copied entire paragraphs from one in writing the other.  So save your money and buy just one of the two.  But if you are an accidental salesperson, or even if by trade you are not a salesperson but you are occasionally called upon to negotiate (maybe you are a lawyer or a manager) Richardson's books will be a refreshing introduction to the discipline of negotiation and persuasion.	2001-05-25
US	47493255	R1F2YZBH5351XP	0806511680	217062084	Ringolevio: A Life Played for Keeps (Citadel Underground)	Books	4	22	26	N	N	A sad book about a sadder life	While it is true, this is a wonderful, true-to-life autobiography of one of the central figures to the Haight-Ashbury scene, there is something fundamentally tragic about Grogan, especially if you read Peter Coyote's introduction and realize what happened to Grogan in the 1970s.  Grogan was no bohemian intellectual, and so the reading is rough at times, but Grogan was a man who had an amazing amount of gaul, a joie-de-vivre, and a sense of daring that made his life fascinating... &quot;a life played for keeps&quot; as his subtitle tells us.<br />Unfortunately, at too early an age, that sense of daring led him to heroin.  Perhaps because Grogan opens himself up so completely in &quot;Ringolevio&quot;, one comes away from the book with a sense that somehow, despite Grogan's disappointment with the failure of the Haight-Ashbury adventure, he was going to be all right, he was going to find a new way to do his good work in this world.  The book ends with a first-hand account of the Rolling Stones Altamont Speedway murder.  Grogan was writing with hindsight, recognizing that the concert marked the end of the illusion: many residents of Haight Ashbury began to move away, or get into trouble, and it didn't take long before the whole gig was over.  But Grogan seemed optimistic that he would find other gigs, equally as enriching as his years as a Digger in San Fransisco.<br />The first time I read this book it was a first edition copy, and I didn't have the benefit of knowing what happened to Grogan in the years following this book's publication.  Reading Coyote's recollections of Grogan in the years after the book's publication - how financial success led Grogan back to the needle, and how the needle eventually claimed Grogan's life - makes the feigned optimism of Ringolevio's end all the more bittersweet.  <br />I don't give it five stars because it reads at times like the work of a hack.  Nonetheless, this is a fascinating document for anyone interested in the history of the Haight-AShbury community of the late 1960s, who the figures involved in the community were and what events shaped that community.  And for the most part it seems honest, warts and all, not some nostalgia-tinged feel-good book about peace and love.	2001-05-25
US	47493255	RKGC0BVNQNWEG	067972902X	674609752	Running the Amazon	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Honest &amp; dangerous fun	Joe Kane travels the way most of us dream about it.  We all want to travel the entire length of the Amazon in a kayak.  If we are lucky we will be able to afford a 4 to 5 day trip on a big passanger boat.  He perfectly captures the balance of fun and fear that makes some extreme trips so memorable and reminds us why we are attracted to extreme travel in the first place.  <br />My only gripe about the book is the speed of the narrative.  As Kane's trip carried on, he became more hurried to get to his final destination and less interested in pausing to enjoy the environment around him.  And as a writer, one senses that he set out to recount everything, but grew impatient and eventually became interested only in getting to the end of his tale.  As a result, the early chapters on Peru are detailed and meandering.  We don't even get into Brazil until about two thirds of the way through the book.  And the final third of the book, from the Peru-Brazil-Colombia border to the Atlantic, whizzes by without a pause, as if the growing speed of the Amazon's current were forcing Kane's narrative forward at an ever faster pace until he finally reaches Belem. There were logistical reasons why Kane was in a hurry, but I was left wishing he had taken the time to pause and meander a little bit more in the lower Amazon.	2001-05-25
US	47493255	RX9GRYXRQ5M05	0933982135	214884098	South America: v. 1: River Trips	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A pitty it is out of print	It is too bad it is out of print.  If you can get a used copy, get it!  There is a second volume by a different set of writers that covers the rivers of the Guyanas, most notably how to do river trips in Suriname.  The only downside is that this book is from the early 1980s and south america has changed quite a bit.  Most of the rivers described are unchanged, but some have been dammed, and government access rules have changed.  The travelling-in-the-rough crowd is badly in need of a revised version of this volume. This book, together with Joe Kane's &quot;Running the Amazon&quot; should be enough to get any weekend canoe-tripper thinking about future travels to the &quot;continent of rivers&quot;.	2001-05-25
US	47493255	R12433UPKUE6C6	0471361909	768873130	Valuation: Measuring and Managing the Value of Companies, 3rd Edition	Books	2	256	258	N	N	A lot of Fluff with some big names on the cover	This was the text book for an advanced seminar on Valuation that I took in my MBA program, and I have a feeling the professor will not use this text book ever again.  The problem is, as another reviewer observed, these McKinsey guys take great care not to reveal any trade secrets in their text.  Therefore you will notice that there is an unusual amount of prose, and a conspicuous lack of financial formulae in this text book.  Our professor had to prepare supplemental lecture notes chock full of formulae, exercises, and examples because she realized that much of what is really needed to learn Valuation is not covered, but only mentioned or alluded to in this book.  For example, everyone accepts that a controlling interest in a firm is worth more than a minority interest in a firm, and Copeland et. al. mention that discounts and premiums may be necessary to accomodate for this situation, but they give no guidance in calculating such premiums.  Further, this book is all about discounted cash flow analysis, which is really only one of several valuation methods.  No space is given to relative valuation or the interpretation of multiples such as P/E.  The authors' reason for shunning relative valuation is flimsy at best (they argue that relative valuation doesn't help you if you are investing in an industry in which ALL firms are over-valued by the Market).<br />There are two different groups who might be interested in valuation: investors who want to use valuation techniques to make passive investments in public companies, like Warren Buffett; and entrepreneurs / managers who are charged with the job of buying or selling business assets for their firms.  To the first group, I recommend the Valuation books of Aswath Damodaran (my favorite is &quot;The Dark Side of Valuation&quot;).  Not only is Damodaran's treatment of the subject matter more complete, but he is much clearer in his explanations because he is not afraid to use an occasional formula (the rule of thumb is that for every formula omitted a writer will have to add an additional two pages of prose just to explain the concepts).  Plus, readers get access to Damodaran's web page, which is an amazing supplement full of downloadable excel spreadsheets, PDF files, examples, problem sets, etc., all free to purchasers of his books.  <br />To the second group, I recommend the works of Shannon Pratt et. al., especially Valuing a Business, Valuing Intangible Assets, etc.  Pratt is a professional Valuation expert, who is often hired by lawyers, accountants, and business owners to appraise businesses, projects, and assets.  Pratt's books represent the state of the art, and cover all techniques in encyclopedic fashion.  For my MBA class a Valuation expert from a Big 5 firm came to speak to us one day about her work, and much of the techniques she uses are consistent with Pratt's own writing.<br />The only reason to read this book is as a bathtub refresher book after you have already studied the techniques of valuation and just want to read what someone else has written about the subject.  Remember, though, reading a descriptive book about the French language is not the same as learning to speak it yourself!	2001-05-24
US	47493255	R50ZTVD2RO0EJ	0804720118	137661820	The Logic of Practice	Books	3	106	111	N	N	Two books in one	Bourdieu followed a strange organization for this book.  The first part is an exposition of his theoretical / philosophical suppositions.  The second part is an application of his ideas as applied to anthropology.  Anthropologists may find passages in the second part to be brilliant (I have heard some praise Bourdieu's analysis of home-building in small villages in northern Africa).  Since I am one of those many &quot;cross-over&quot; readers who read Bourdieu and try to assimilate his ideas into other academic disciplines, I found the second part dull, especially since it dealt with the anthropological analysis of an obscure community of &quot;non-western&quot; people living in northern Africa.  To get a flavor of Bourdieu qua working sociologist, a book like Distinction, or Homo Academicus is much more readable and relevant.  <br />On the other hand, the first part of the book contains what I consider the &quot;meat&quot;.  In part one, Bourdieu attempts to present, in its fullest and most abstact expression, a philosophical system which gives impetus to his work as a sociologist, as an analyst of &quot;practice&quot;.  In part One we find the &quot;objective-subjective&quot; arguments, habitus, doxa, and all sorts of reference to strange concepts like &quot;structured structuring structures&quot; of the mind.  (I wonder what that is?)  One noteworthy part of Part One is Bourdieu's discussion of the body, the body's relation to the habitus etc and how people use their bodies as a function of the habitus.  Missing, however, are in depth discussions of language, symbolic power, fields, or the idea of cultural capital which make some of Bourdieu's other writings so interesting to non-anthropologists.  <br />One last note: if you are familiar with &quot;Outline of a Theory of Practice&quot; you will find that this book bears a strong resemblance to the aforementioned.  This book, in fact, appears to be Bourdieu's effort, 20 years after the publication of &quot;Outline&quot; to revisit the same material, address some of the original objections and challenges made to &quot;Outline&quot; and otherwise refine the expression of his ideas.  If you are looking for a document that captures in one place the current state of affairs of Bourdieu's philosophical/anthropological program, look to this document rather than the &quot;outline&quot; since much Bourdieu's ideas are more completely and currently expressed here.  Also, if Bourdieu is a new writer to you, this is a very poor first Bourdieu book to read, however.  Everything that is wrong with Bourdieu's writing style is exponentially exagerated in this text.  Once you are used to Bourdieu's style and ideas, however, this book can become an invaluable resource.	2001-05-24
US	47493255	R3G51NZF83LKXQ	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Sociological Comedy	Brooks calls his book comic sociology.  As sociology this is bad stuff.  But as comedy, I admit that I smiled and laughed my way through most of this book.  <br />First, the comedy: this book is full of subtle observations and discrete mockery of people we all know.  Who can avoid laughing at the description of those \\"bobos\\" that install stainless steel fridges in their kitchens (what Brooks calls the \\"texture of culinary machismo\\"), drive SUVs, eat \\"Rain Forest Crunch\\" and buy their \\"Fair Trade\\" Coffee at Starbucks?  You know people like this.  You might even be one!  For added comedy, the word \\"bobo\\" means \\"fool\\" in Spanish and Portuguese.  Brooks is at his funniest when he is mocking these \\"bobos\\", making fun of their customs and habits, and showing readers how ridiculous our behavior can be sometimes.<br />This book becomes dull, vague, and just plain wrong as soon as Brook attempts to draw high-brow, broad sociological conclusions from all of his game and jest.  At first the funny moments far out-wieghed the heavy thesis-statements about the fusion of bohemian and bourgeois values.  But after a few chapters Brooks loses his sense of humor and begins pushing his misguided theses without so much as a smile.  By the end, I had forgotten about the funny parts (mostly towards the beginning) and realized that Brooks actually believes that the bourgeois-bohemian tension that has endured two hundred years in western societies has actually been reconciled in a Hegelian historical synthesis, that such a synthesis is for the good of all, and that the bobos (read: the baby boomers) are responsible for this noble social innovation.  One never gets a clear sense who the \\"bobos\\" really are.  At one point, wealthy computer whizzes from the California engineering schools are \\"bobos\\".  Later, people like actor Peter Coyote (who started his career with the Diggers in Haight Ashbury now is a very marketable talent in Hollywood) are the new \\"bobos\\".  Then Stamford Connecticut wivesare bobos.  Then green grocers in Latte Towns are bobos.  Then Harvard lawyers who like to engage in adventure travel on their vacations are bobos.  Eventually, one gets the sense that \\"bobo\\", \\"bourgeois\\" and \\"bohemian\\" are just broad blanket terms which can be redifined at Brooks' convenience to make whatever point he wants to make.  We could all be \\"bobos\\" based on Brooks' notions of the word.  It is a sociology of convenience.<br />I have my own explanations for many of Brooks' claims, especially about why the upper class doesn't seem so WASPy any more.  Brooks claims that opening up the floodgates to the barbarians at schools like Harvard resulted in a displacement of the WASP upper class with a more enlightened upper class of philosopher kings (and queens).  Nonsense.  One change which Brooks gives no weight to is the rise in two income families, especially among the college-educated classes.  When both parents work, each only has to earn half as much to enjoy the same lifestyle.  The result is a ballooning population of incomer earners in the over $100,000 per year bracket.  These newcomers to the upper class reflect consumer patterns that are markedly different from the old WASP consumer patterns because many of these new rich are not WASPs.  They bring to their new upper class lifestyle a set of values that was formed in different cultural and class contexts - mid-century jewish New York, late 20th century southern california, Polish Chicago.   But such a thesis is banal.  Are the faces, attitudes, and behaviors of the upper class changing?  Most certainly, and it is amusing and interesting to observe such changes, joke about such changes, and even speculate on why such changes are happening.  Is it because of some Hegalian historical change between the forces of bourgeoisie and bohemia?  Not at all.  Bohemia continues to thrive, marginalized by the bourgeoisie (as always).  And the new bourgeoisie continues to be as ostentatious, condescending, elitist, and conservative as ever, driving their Land Rovers, living in 3,000 square foot homes, lamenting the arrival of electricity and running water to the quaint Costa Rican village they visited once on their $......./head ecotourism adventure, and donating generously to the new, pro-business democrat party of Bill & Hilary Clinton.<br />All in all, this was a fun read, for the first 100 pages or so.	2001-05-23
US	47493255	R1HMH8WT2C4LIM	080213422X	640122618	The Painted Bird	Books	5	80	96	N	N	In defense of Kozinski	OK, I admit, I should have been older than 14 years old when I first read this novel... it is more graphic than your average WWII book or movie.  This novel is an unusual perspective on the holocaust.  There are no factories full of jewish labor slaves, no ghettoes, no concentration camps.  Instead, there is a small child, seperated from his parents in time of war, lost in the countryside of rural central Europe.  In the course of the novel, we discover how the social chaos brought about by WWII plays itself out among common peasants in the countryside as they are reduced to the lowest behaviors imaginable in the absence of peace, stability, clear governance, and a socially agreed-upon sense of right and wrong.  And the victim (or victims) is the child who witnesses (and lives with) this state of violence.  <br />In response to the review title &quot;More lies about Jerzy&quot;, I find it shallow and naive of the reviewer to call this book gratuitous violence invented for entertainment simply because the events depicted are not truly autobiographical.  It is a novel.  Last time I checked, novelists seem to make stories up on a regular basis.  No need to discount the value of the narrative because of its condition as fictional.  As for the suggestion that Jerzy did not write this book, I wouldn't be surprised if he had help smoothing his prose into readable English.  Kozinski is not a native speaker of English.  In fact, he learned the language as an adult.  So he needed help with the language... who cares?  The plot, characterization, and overall design of the book bear the creative mark that no proof reader or ghost writer could put on a narrative.  I don't doubt that this is Jerzy Kozinski telling this story, and the spirit of the narrative, the pain the child feels (he is so traumatized by his experiences that he becomes mute and needs to undergo therapy as an adult to recover his ability to speak) is an expression of WWII as Kozinski experienced it.  We don't need to know if Kozinski is the boy in the narrative.  The knowledge that Kozinski could identify and describe this violence in a way that actually upsets you and makes you angry is enough for me.  Kozinski has written an excellent novel about WWII and its aftermath, which, unlike Schindler's List, doesn't make you feel warm and cozy about how all the good people triumphed in the end... this novel will leave you with the lasting impression that there is no end-of-story resolution/redemption for those affected by war.	2001-03-21
US	47493255	R2Y10QVB8H6SPV	082630656X	421023354	Cabeza de Vaca's Adventures in the Unknown Interior of America (Zia Book)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	fascinating	Everyone else's reviews are so right on the money.  The story reminds us of a century of American exploration that occured before the English had even taken an interest in the New World.  And it also gives us an amazingly close glimpse of what life was probably really like among the tribes of Native Americans living along the Gulf Coast.  I don't know what to add, except for a comment about the afterward: Cabeza de Vaca could be described as the first American naturalist.  Somewhwere between the discovery of the new world, and the twentieth century, people began to travel through the wilderness for the sake of enjoying nature rather than for any practical reason like looking for gold(Humboldt, Muir, Rooseveldt are just a few examples of this sort of &quot;explore for pleasure&quot; mind set).  8 years in the wilds of Florida, Gulf Coast, Texas and Northern mexico were enough to give Cabeza de Vaca a permenant case of new world wanderlust.  When the King of Spain awarded Cabeza de Vaca with the governorship of Paraguay years later, Cabeza de Vaca did something strange: en route to Assuncion, he ordered his boats to go ashore in unexplored southern Brazil, 1000 miles from Assuncion, and took a band of men on a voluntary hike through the wilds overland to Assuncion, rather than sailing the boats up the Rio de Plata.  Cabeza de Vaca's second book features an account of his voluntary nature hike.  A moor survived the US trek with Cabeza de Vaca (appears as a character in the book), but never quite found his place his Spanish society afterword; the moor wandered up into New Mexico to live again among the native americans, and eventually was killed by angry native americans.	2001-03-13
US	47493255	R3N2FOLTY8Q2CV	0658006533	525416402	Footprint Brazil Handbook: The Travel Guide	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Best Brazil Book I have seen so far	The Brazil travel guide market has been underserved over the years.  I just picked up the Footprints guide, though, and I admit that this is the most complete Brazil guide I have seen in English.  Any book that gives you hotel recommendations in towns as far off the beaten path as Mossoro, Petrolina/Juazeiro, Picos, Teofilo Otoni, Tres Marias, Xique Xique, Senhor do Bonfim and Vitoria da Conquista deserves an ovation.  I have passed through all of these towns for one reason or another, and most guidebooks make no mention of them.  They aren't big tourist attractions, but Brazil being so big, you never know when you might need to know where to stay.  For example, I was once trying to get from Natal to Canoa Quebrada and couldn't get a direct bus; I could only get as far as Mossoro.  I got to Mossoro at 10 PM, and wouldn't be able to get a bus until 6 AM the next morning to Aracati (where I would have to change buses again to get to Canoa Q).  At 10 PM at the Mossoro bus station needing a place to sleep, I could have used a list of hotels, phones, and prices.  It would have saved me 30 minutes of searching for a clean, affordable room.<br />And the coverage of the Lencois Maranhenses/Parnaiba delta region is second to none.  In 1993 I passed through this area without a guidebook, because none of the guidebooks on the market at the time gave enough information about the region to be of any use.  In this one, you get a detailed map of the Rio Preguica, as well as needed orientation on how to get from Barreirinhas to Tutoia (both charming towns worth a visit), and then where to catch the passenger ferries to Parnaiba from Tutoia.  In 1993 I met a German man who had walked from Tutoia to Barreirinhas on foot.  It took him 3 days.  This is the first guide book I have ever seen on the area that even suggests that this route can be walked, as well as expected walk time and what to take with you.<br />Aside from having extensive coverage, this book has the best advice on driving, buying cars, and how to outfit a vehicle for continent-wide travel (my next dream trip to Brazil).<br />But this book isn't the end-all of Brazil tour guides.  There is plenty of room for improvement.  There is not a lot of history or background info.  This book is for the road, not for bed-time reading as you prepare your trip.  It assumes sometimes that you know why you are in Brazil and exactly what you want to see and where you want to go... you just need to know where to sleep and eat when you get there.  There isn't a lot of the opinionated commentary and review that makes LP guides so bulky (and at times annoying).  This book could easily be 70 pages longer and wouldn't detract from the travellers' experiences lugging it around in their back packs.  This is one of three essential books for when you go backpacking in Brazil... the other two being Guia 4 Rodas Brasil (a sort of AAA guidebook of towns, hotels, restaurants and reviews) and Guia 4 Rodas Guia de Praias (the most complete guide to the beaches of Brazil in any language!).  Happy travels.	2001-03-05
US	47493255	R3T8GR84TPY8O7	0874771641	159029046	Becoming a Writer	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The &quot;How&quot;, not the &quot;What&quot; of writing	This book tries to show you how to get started writing, and avoids telling you what to write.  Too many &quot;how to&quot; books become vehicles for conveying the authors' prejudices and preferences (I remember becoming annoyed at John Gardner's overbearing allegiance to the worn Jamesian cliches like &quot;showing not telling&quot;, for example).  I don't think Dorothea Brande cares much if you are a post-modern experimentalist or a western writer, or a budding newspaper columnist; her hope is that you become a writer, at least.  Your genre, style, and subject matter are nobody's business but your readers'.  If you are looking for a book that will tell you whether your characters are &quot;too shallow&quot; or whether your plotting technique needs improvement, this is not the book (thank goodness!).  If you have ever started something great and never finished, or if you want to start but can't seem to drag yourself to do it, this could be a helpful read.  Check it out!	2001-03-01
US	47493255	R283YDJMMPMR0S	1864500891	437428980	Lonely Planet Mexico, 7th Edition	Books	1	16	21	N	N	Read these book reviews carefully	I have only limited contact with the contents of this book - borrowed copies and people I have run into on the road who are using this book.  What little I read is enough to make me want to pick up one of the many excellent Moon Handbooks on my next trip to Mexico.  Some of the other reviewers site the fact that this book is terribly outdated.  I would add that it is over-used... and the hotel owners and waiters whose establishments are listed in the book know it.  If you are new to independent travel and have never heard of Taxco or Guanajuato or you want to feel like you are really beating a new path but still want your restaurant menus in English, maybe this book can help.  Otherwise, consider one of the amazingly well-researched and up-to-date Moon Handbooks, such as Pacific Mexico, Archeological Mexico, or Colonial Mexico.	2001-02-22
US	47493255	R21WGV5SOJQPUB	1566911230	952841765	Mexico Handbook (Moon Handbooks)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Good or Bad?	It is tough to say if this book is the Good Mexico Guidebook or the Bad one on the market today.  I don't want to jump to the hyperboles of my fellow reviewer.  I have used Lonely Planet books and had an awful time of it before (see my review of Lonely Planet Brazil).  So many people use Lonely Planet books that these &quot;off the beaten path&quot; travellers end up forming their own beaten path: they all stay in the LP-recomended hotel, eat at the LP-recomended restaurant, etc.  LP is the Microsoft of independent travel books, and so you should use their books with caution.  On the other hand, like most LP Asia books, LP Thailand is a classic - it served me well in the 1980's.  So when I saw that Joe Cummings had traded his Thai travelling boots for a pair of Mexican ones, I jumped at the chance to use his guidebook for my Mexican travels.  The results are mixed.  Mexico is so big, there are so many places to go, and there are so many things to do, that it is a daunting task fitting it all into a single book (even a book this big!).  Like LP's &quot;On a Shoestring&quot; guides, this Mexico book appears to actually be a synthesis and summary of some of Moon's other, more in-depth books, such as Pacific Mexico, Cabo, Cancun, etc.  For that reason, it would appear that some of the Moon regional guides contain the details and nitty gritty.  So if you aren't planning on criss-crossing the country from north to south, east to west, you might consider investing in one of the regional guides which covers a smaller area of Mexico in more detail.  As an aside, if you can read a bit of Spanish and want to get really nitty gritty in the &quot;Places to Go / Things to Do&quot; category, check out mexicodesconocido.com.mx.  They don't publish any guidebooks, but their travel magazines and on-line content is rich enough to replace any of the Mexico guidebooks on the market.	2001-02-21
US	47493255	R2HNA3MCZSFJ3T	0864425619	825909431	Lonely Planet Brazil (4th ed)	Books	2	15	18	N	N	Superficial and doesn't cover 99% of the country!	I used the previous eddition of the LP guide while on an extended (5-month) trip in Brazil and halfway through the trip I gave it away because it was just cluttering up my backpack.  It only covered the biggest cities, and even then, I thought Andrew Draffen to some very snobbish opinions about many places (Santos being one of them).  One of the most interesting &quot;off-the-beaten path&quot; travels I made (w/out Lonely Planet) was from Lencois Maranhenses (Barreirinhas) overland to Tutoia, and then by boat past the Ilha do Caju to Piaui, and then to Camocim and on to Jericoacoara. Had I trusted the LP guide, this region of the coast would have remained a mystery.  I eventually bought a copy of Guia 4 Rodas Brazil guide in Portuguese because the maps were amazingly accurate, and it had hotel and dining options for even the most obscure towns.  I also visited Parintins (an island-city in the Amazon) in June for the largest Bumba-meu-boi festival in the world, and LP doesn't even mention the place!  There are some newer, better books on the market that appear better... when travelling in Brazil trust the locals and avoid Lonely Planet!	2001-02-15
US	47493255	R26OZTY88YR06U	0374521999	697324024	The Lost Steps	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Katharine Mapes is wrong	Frankly I don't see the &quot;connection&quot; between this book and &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;... Different time, different book, different language, different continent... only the ignorant could conflate them.  The Lost Steps is not a hypocritical, pretentious condemnation of pretention.  It is a condemnation of the sort of empty commercialized work that prevents one narrator from finding his voice as an artist.  The Lost Steps is the story of a hispanic musician/intellectual who lives in the modern city (sounds like New York to me) and makes a living writing jingles for commercials.  He has the opportunity to make a long journey to a very different place in Latin America.  The journey liberates him creatively so that he is able to find his &quot;voice&quot; as a musical artist.  Not a bad story.  As for the complaint that the narrator's language is riddled with words and metaphors from music should not trouble us when we consider that the narrator is a highly trained musician.  Artists frame the world around them in the language of their craft.  There was a time - not more than 60 years ago, in fact)when everyone who was &quot;educated&quot; could at least read a little sheet music and play a little bit of piano and those funny Italian terms that today sound like a foreign language were once understood by most everyone.  The ignorance of today's readers is no basis for condemning the author as &quot;pretentious&quot;.   What I liked most about this story were those moments of brilliant prose where the narrator's (and the author's) love for Latin America shines through.  The narrator's journey portrays Latin America in terms of &quot;Lo Real Maravilloso&quot;, the marvelous reality where 20,000 years of human history have been superimposed and condensed within a single geographic space, making that space a unique place distinct from all other geographic spaces.  If you are fascinated by &quot;Lo real maravilloso&quot; of Latin America, its cultures, its history, and you like stories about narrators who seek and find their artisitic voice (an over-used plot, perhaps) this is an enjoyable read.  And no, you don't need to be a classically trained musician to appreciate this book!	2000-12-28
US	47493255	R2Z0MQB2HZRY38	0195101707	211182288	The Posthumous Memoirs of Brs Cubas (Library of Latin America)	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Just to subdue the acolades	I sometimes wonder why a reviewer will trash a book in the presence of so many positive reviews.  Maybe there are readers out there who just like to be contrarians for the sake of being contrarians.  How dull.   This book is so good, I wrote my college thesis on it.  I cannot count the number of times I have read it over the years.  Why all the fuss? First, I suppose in 2001 this book might seem tame and trite.  Joyce, Proust, Mann, Faulkner, Woolf, Garcia Marquez, Cortazar, Pynchon, etc have already come and gone.  Now days, it might seem totally uninteresting for a dead person to narrate a book, or for the author to purposely lie and mislead the reader, and for those readers who like their books &quot;Serious&quot; it might be annoying for the narrator to crack jokes, make fun of everyone, and otherwise disrupt the whole solemnity of reading a &quot;great book.&quot;  Bah humbug!   This book was published in 1881, when the continentals were all reading and imitating Zola and the English speakers were all reading and imitating Henry James.  This book amazingly snubs the whole &quot;realist-naturalist&quot; aesthetic.  Why can't the narrator be a liar?  Why does the narrator have to &quot;show not tell?&quot;  From a historical point of view, Machado de Assis is impressively original and independent in his style, obviously influenced by those innocent and flabby 18th century English novels by Fielding and Sterne. But for those who inspect closely, there is even an amazing amount of social criticism going on in this book: Roberto Schwartz, a Brazilian critic, has analyzed Machado de Assis's books as social criticism extensively.  For the interested, his writings might be worth a peak.   Finally, after having been forced to view &quot;literature&quot; as a serious, high-brow concern my whole life, this book was a refreshing read: finally a relaxed, funny, light read that didn't stoop to be base, shallow, are insulting at the same time.  At an age when I desperately needed to be reminded of it, this book reminded me that we read to be entertained.  And the best books are those that entertain over and over again without going stale.  The worst books are those that come across as stale on the first read.  Amazingly, a lot of books that I was trying to read because they were on my college professors' &quot;great books&quot; lists now strike me as amazingly stale.  This book continues to entertain, however.	2000-12-28
