US	47494168	R1ZMD57P3V20UQ	1930377029	933031526	The Lejendary Rules for All Players	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Solid Component of an Excellent New RPG System	The Lejendary Rules for All Players--along with Lejend Master's Lore and Beasts of Lejend--is one of three books that form the nucleus of the new Lejendary Adventures system launched by Dungeon's &amp; Dragons creator Gary Gygax. It is a basic rules manual intended for players and game masters alike and introduces gamers to the fundamentals of the game system. <br />Sections in The Lejendary Rules include an introduction to the Lejendary Adventures system; &quot;The Avatar,&quot; a guide to character creation; &quot;Avatar Abilities,&quot; what characters can do and how; &quot;Equipment Lists,&quot; including starting equipment tailored to characters' backgrounds and skills; &quot;Extraordinary Abilities,&quot; such as spells and paranormal powers; and &quot;The Journey,&quot; the basic rules of play. Other elements include reproducible character sheets and &quot;Forlorn Corners,&quot; a short introductory adventure. Creation of Lejendary Adventures characters is described in a clear, step-by-step manner, and is intended to allow players to design exactly the characters they want by allocating points for characteristics and selecting an appropriate mix of abilities. <br />Lejendary Adventures characters have three basic characteristics, or &quot;base ratings,&quot; Health, Precision, and Speed. An optional characteristic, Intellect, also exists, but is more applicable to nonplayer characters. These base ratings, along with race, are used to determine a character's level of proficiency in more than three dozen Abilities (e.g., Commerce, Divination, Weapons), which form the basis for character development in Lejendary Adventures. <br />Races available to players in The Lejendary Rules include familiar ones, like Human, Dwarf, Elf (Wylf) and Gnome; some traditionally not open to characters, such as Kobold and Orc (three varieties); and others that are fairly unique to the game, such as Ilf, Oaf (three types), Trollkin, and Veshoge. <br />Lejendary Adventures charactershave the option of either joining various orders (reminiscent of the character classes that form the basis of systems like Dungeons &amp; Dragons) or of remaining &quot;unordered.&quot; Either course has its advantages, increased proficiency in various abilities for the members of orders, and greater flexibility for unordered characters. Characters with the prerequisite abilities can select from the Demonurge, Desperado, Ecclesiastic, Elementalist, Forester, Jongleur, Mage, Mariner, Noble, Outlaw, Rogue, Soldier, and Warlock orders. <br />One especially interesting aspect of The Lejendary Rules are the various lists that players use to select initial weapons and equipment for characters based on their abilities. For example, Minstrelsy allows a selection from the Low list, Hunt from the Middle list, Learning from the High list, Enchantment from the Magical list, Weapons from the Military list, and Alchemia from the Special list. <br />Incidentally, this softback, perfect-bound book is durable and certain to last a long time, something inadvertently brought to our attention after a cat knocked our copy into the toilet one night. The next day we fished it out and let it dry, after which it was a bit warped but completely intact and usable.<br />If this book has a palpable weakness, it lies in its artwork, which includes a full-color illustration on the cover (depicting a traditional adventuring party) and hundreds of black-and- white illustrations inside. Unfortunately, quality of the latter are somewhat uneven, and many are coarsely rendered or poorly scanned. Many of these are reminiscent of the cruder illustrations in the old AD&amp;D Monster Manual, and generous souls may allow that this similarity is deliberate. <br />Aesthetic flaws aside, this system has no substantive deficiencies to speak of. Like the Lejendary Adventures system as a whole, it is a solid, enjoyable, easy-to-use gaming component that is sure to provide years of entertainment to a great many gamers.	2000-12-18
US	47494168	RG2EWY6AO7K6T	078690738X	178527716	Star Drive Campaign Setting (Alternity Sci-Fi Roleplaying, Star Drive Campaign Setting, 2802)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Possibilities for the Alternity Game	Star*Drive is a campaign setting for the popular Alternity sci-fi gaming system, and requires both the Alternity Player's Handbook and Alternity Gamemaster Guide for play. In a game that emphasizes a build-your-own world approach, the Star*Drive universe provides a quick but customizable campaign and a large selection of compatible add-ons.<br />This 256-page book describes a 26th century world of faster-than-light speed travel, frontier exploration, alien-human commerce, war, and interstellar nations. The comparison with Star Trek is obvious but not an over-riding factor; Star*Drive has its own flavor and plenty of room for your own additions, whatever your TV, movie, or literary favorites might be. <br />Mutants, psionics, and cybertech-enhanced beings (all optional in the basic rules) are included in this campaign. Also given are statistics and descriptions for 26th century technology (ships, military, medicine, robots, and much more), the 13 stellar nations of Old Space, and 18 solar systems of the Verge (the edge of Star*Drive's frontier). Brief histories of campaign technology, alien contact, and wars are also covered. The five alien player character species will be familiar from the Alternity Player's Handbook (Fraal, Mechalus, Sesheyan, T'sa, and Weren), as are the five basic professions; however, Star*Drive offers several subcategories under each profession (49 total) as models for your character. <br />Accessories for the Star*Drive campaign include Alien Compendium: Creatures of the Verge, Planet of Darkness, Outbound: An Explorer's Guidebook, Arms &amp; Equipment Guide, and Threats from Beyond. <br />Star*Drive offers excellent possibilities for your Alternity game.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-12-14
US	47494168	R339JU3VRKN1KM	0786907789	425680460	Alien Compendium: Creatures of the Verge (Alternity Sci-Fi Roleplaying, Star Drive Setting) (Vol 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Decent Collection of Sci-fi Creatures	Alien Compendium: Creatures of the Verge is an accessory for Alternity and its Star*Drive Campaign Setting, essentially a sci-fi monster manual for Star*Drive's unexplored frontier. This book requires both the Alternity Player's Handbook and Alternity Gamemaster Guide for play, but may be used with or without the Star*Drive Campaign.<br />This full-color, 128-page volume details 57 organisms from the 18 solar systems of the Verge (an area just beyond the borders of Star*Drive's &quot;civilized&quot; sectors), six sentient species and one laboratory creature of &quot;Old Space&quot; (right, the civilized areas), and six sentient &quot;External&quot; species (from outside the bounds of Galactic society). Five of the entries from &quot;Old Space&quot; will be familiar to any Alternity gamer from the basic books (it would have been nice to pad out the roster beyond two new entries: the laboratory Warbeasts and the insane Cykotek cultists). Plenty of good concepts here and high-quality art. There are a few irritating glitches in the book, such as the authors' unnecessary straining for pseudo-scientific description (sorry guys, arachnids don't have six legs), and a few stinkers, such as the alien koala bears and a picture of an egistron that doesn't match the text. Still in all a nice collection.<br />Good for Star*Drive and for general Alternity use; a decent idea mine.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-12-07
US	47494168	RVRKRJU8N101Y	0786912189	931038369	Threats From Beyond (Alternity Sci-Fi Roleplaying, Star Drive Setting, 02815)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Solid Adventure Hooks Weakened by Strained Prose	Threats from Beyond acts as a campaign resource for Alternity's Star*Drive Campaign Setting. It is essentially a set of 18 adventure hooks presented with deep background information and rumors surrounding them. This book requires Star*Drive, the Alternity Player's Handbook, and the Alternity Gamemaster Guide for play. <br />Threats from Beyond centers on the politics and intrigue occuring on the Verge, the edge of explored space in Star*Drive. The material presented is narrowly focused at the Star*Drive universe and its history, with little that could be adapted for general Alternity campaigns. The adventure hooks are pretty solid, but could have benefited from a different, shorter, and less cliched background. Author Bill Slavicsek frames the &quot;history&quot; for the hooks as the desperate transmissions of an undercover reporter hiding out in the Verge, unearthing conspiracies and threats against civilization. The strained prose resembles chunks of a novel and a future history text interspersed with junior journalism, not very smooth reading. Another annoyance is a &quot;security precaution&quot; against sneaky players: decisions about which part of the background is true are left to the Gamemaster--less than helpful and a lot of extra work, considering how much of the entire book is given this treatment. <br />Could have been better; get it for the adventure hooks and ideas, not the fake news reports.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-12-07
US	47494168	R1L89OP03E9VFQ	0786903783	154616797	Children of the Night: Vampires (AD&D 2nd Ed Roleplaying, Ravenloft Accessory)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Choice Collection of Adventures, Tricks, and Traps	&quot;Children of the Night: Vampires&quot; is the first in the &quot;Children of the Night&quot; series, which also includes &quot;Children of the Night: The Created,&quot; &quot;Children of the Night: Werebeasts&quot; and the out-of-print &quot;Children of the Night: Ghosts.&quot; &quot;Vampires&quot; revolves around imaginative variations of that favorite bloodsucker; it is suitable for use in Ravenloft and in other campaigns, and is intended as a complementary volume to the various Van Richten's books. As with others in this series, Vampires presents 13 mini-adventures, each a story centered around an interesting individual or unusual type of vampire.<br />The books in this series are a great buy, presenting 13 well-written and potentially expandable adventures in a single accessory. In this volume we are offered quite a variety of creatures, some tied more or less to Ravenloft and its special creatures or cities, others from an &quot;anywhere&quot; background or originally from one of the other AD&amp;D campaign worlds and dragged into the Mists of the Ravenloft Domain of Dread by evil circumstances. In either case, these adventures are readily adaptable to fit the flavor of any campaign, though the style of this first of the &quot;Children of the Night&quot; series seems to assume a greater familiarity with Ravenloft than the other volumes do. <br />Don't think that becauses vampires are so popular a subject that the possibilities are burnt out: In these adventures we are offered a scarred and wretched man divinely cursed to wander the desert in thirst, only able to briefly quench his thirst through fluid from his victims; a druidic vampiress whose thirsty habits run to tree sap; and a &quot;penanggalan,&quot; a horrid female creature whose head flies free from her body and zooms around at night dangling a long black tail, looking for folk to drain. Demihumans and nonhumans are not exempt from the vampire scourge: Here we meet an elf originally from the Forgotten Realms who loathes all vampires--his problem being he himself has become one; an elven vampiress from Dragonlance's Krynn, whose terrible twisted face can stun or kill on sight; a greater vampiric Ixitxachitl; and a dwarven scholar, a &quot;Vampire Sage&quot; with unusual powers who once served the lich Azalin. In the entries specifically tied to Ravenloft are a vampiric slave who was once a Ravenloft Vistana, or gypsy; a sea vampire and his crew of undead pirates; a sadistic, permanently invisible vampire trickster; the scheming vampire niece of Ravenloft's powerful Count Strahd; a &quot;vorlog,&quot; a vampiric monster who stopped just short of becoming undead; and a crime boss vampire with sewer alligators for friends. The cover art is good and so are the interior maps, though in general the interior art is not quite up to usual Ravenloft quality. All in all, a choice collection of adventures, tricks, and traps.<br />Highly recommended for vampire fans running any AD&amp;D 2nd Edition campaign.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-11-01
US	47494168	R1BI5CSFWRK28V	0786912022	572831346	Children of the Night: Werebeasts (Accessory)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Wonderful Collection Of Bloodthirsty Beast-Folk	&quot;Children of the Night: Werebeasts&quot; is the third in the &quot;Children of the Night&quot; series, which also includes &quot;Children of the Night: The Created,&quot; &quot;Children of the Night: Vampires,&quot; and the out-of-print &quot;Children of the Night: Ghosts.&quot; &quot;Werebeasts&quot; revolves around people becoming beasts and in one case, a beast becoming a person. It is suitable for use in Ravenloft and in other campaigns, and is intended as a complementary volume to the various &quot;Van Richten's&quot; books. As with others in this series, WereBeasts presents 13 small, expandable adventures, each a story centered around an interesting individual or type of lycanthrope, some being quite unusual.<br />&quot;Children of the Night&quot; series accessories are a great value, each offering 13 detailed, expandable adventures in a single book. Additional rules are included from the &quot;Van Richten's&quot; volumes: types of lycanthrope (true/born, maledictive/cursed, pathologic/infected), shapechange triggers (symbolic, physical, and other), consequences of change (healing, damage to armor, and more), bloodlust frenzies, and cures. <br />This volume includes: an assassin who is the evil spawn of a human woman and an elder serpent; a wizard whose &quot;primal serum&quot; creates lycanthropy of any animal species on demand; a dashing nobleman whose &quot;other life&quot; involves drinking blood as a horrific bat creature; a half-elven maiden whose singing career masks a fox's face; an entire ship's crew infected with lycanthropy by their captain, a man under a curse; a hunter with tigerish tastes in human prey; the master of a travelling roadshow who has been cursed by the Vistani of Ravenloft; an outcast werejackal priest; a woman with a scarred throat who is gradually turning an entire village into were-stingrays; a black cat who became a catwere from werepanther wounds; a huge man upon whom religion has bestowed the alternate form of a crocodile;a mad artist whose lycanthropy aids him in his use of a magical relic; and a wild woman, head of an extreme monastic order, who shapechanges into a dire wolf. Excellent and dramatic cover art combines with interior black and white portraits of the usual Ravenloft high quality to add to the general creepiness. <br />A wonderful collection of bloodthirsty beast-folk, excellent for making your players jumpy and suspicious of anyone they meet. Highly recommended for any AD&amp;D 2nd Edition campaign.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-31
US	47494168	R1222N3LYGWXRV	1892294001	948877171	Forge: Out of Chaos	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Excellent, Worthwhile Game System	Forge: Out of Chaos is the core rulebook for Basement Games' fantasy roleplaying game set in the World of Juravia. A great variety of player character races, a point-based skill system rather than &quot;professions,&quot; and new spins on game mechanics such as experience points and spell-casting highlight this worthwhile fantasy milieu.<br />Open this book and you're immediately surprised: while they were bending game rules, the guys at Basement Games went ahead and broke the usual table-of-contents-etc. order of book creation. Mythology of the world's beginnings fills the first few pages, explaining how the first god Enigwa shaped the sun, the world, the other gods, and finally, humankind. How the squabbling younger gods warped the basic shape of human life into other races and also created monsters, disease, and undead horrors sets the scene for the whole World of Juravia campaign.<br />There are eleven races for players to pick from, including humans--for me, this and the point-based skill system are among the strongest arguments for trying this system. <br />Humans are the base from which the other racial statistics vary--but the nonhuman choices are rich indeed. For the combat-lovers, there are the many races created by the fallen god of war: the tall Berserkers, with ridged foreheads (very Klingon in appearence) and extraordinary combat bonuses; the Higmoni, with boar-like features, rapid healing, and infrared vision; and the one-eyed, hairy Ghantu, over seven feet tall with massive combat damage. There are also Dwarves, children of the god of justice and honorable combat: their sturdy physique grants them many bonuses.<br />For the wizard fanciers, there are the lizard-like Kithsara, children of the god of the elements, with naturally enhanced magic talents and a powerful biting attack; the light-shunning Dunnar, created by the goddess of enchantment, with weird, almost undead appearances, exceptional night vision, and innate abilities to detect magic &amp;shield against mind magic; and your basic, magical Elves.<br />More unusual character choices are the Merikii, the territorial feathered, flightless children of the goddess of beasts, Sprites (courtesy of the goddess of the harvest), and the shrew-like bipeds called Jher-ems--excellent trackers and natural empaths. Curiously enough, we are not given the mythological origins of either Elves or the Jher-ems--perhaps this is deliberate on Basement Games' part. I'd like to see a module or online rules addition covering that eventually. Basement Games has made its new rules public and free, rather than issuing scads of expensive new editions. <br />This multi-racial world flows naturally through the World of Juravia modules offered by Basement Games, such as The Vemora, Tales That Dead Men Tell, and The Temple of Nanghetti. <br />Characters are built by purchasing skills (or acquiring them through opportunities during adventures) and building them through use. If you don't use it, you don't advance in it--a much more logical approach to &quot;experience points&quot; to my mind. Magic itself is treated as a skill, making the profession of mage a result of learned skills (more below on mages). Resulting characters are much richer in abilities than the straightforward &quot;I'm a fighter, I can't do that&quot; model of some systems in which advancement is quick but capabilities are rigidly limited.<br />Ability to advance in skills in Forge has some built-in brakes, preventing some of these super-monster deity characters that are typical in long AD&amp;D campaigns: in Forge, advancement is not automatic. For &quot;experience points&quot; the player receives chances to dice for skill advances. Also, a skill has a base score which is calculated differently for a high-level character than for a low one, changing the mechanics of advancement when base scores pass 100%. This keeps even a long campaign from acquiring the yawning &quot;easy victory&quot; boredom disease.<br />Mages, or characters who have acquired the magic skill, are of two types: practitioners of Divine Magic or of Pagan Magic. Mages of Divine Magic are of two types, requiring a bond to one's deity and adherence to particular principles: Berethenu Knights follow the god of justice and must live according to rules of Poverty, Self-sacrifice, and Honor, while Grom Warriors follow the god of war imprisoned in the underworld, and live through Personal Glory, Selfishness, and Pride. Failure to adher to the divine principles causes the Knight or Warrior to lose his magical ability, permanently in the Warrior's case. Pagan magics require spell components to activate spells and may specialize in Beast Magic, Elemental Magic, Enchantment, or Necromancy. Interesting game mechanics add variable destruction/preservation of spell components and the ability to &quot;pump&quot; a spell several levels in strength.<br />Physcial combat involves two defensive values instead of one, allowing for you AND your armor to be damaged or destroyed. Monsters run a huge gamut from various mythologies to originals from Basement Games. Minotaurs, phoenixes, and dragons share the world with various demons, scaly Mul-Hounds, Rhino Lizards, and elemental creatures such as Frost Heaves.<br />At Basement Games itself, you will find many additional free campaign materials and may also try the World of Juravia membership program, in which you'll receive Empire packets, ready-to-play mini-adventures, floor plans for temples and dungeons, new monsters, and much, much more.<br />An excellent game system--well worth it.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-30
US	47494168	RML54QLUGNGUP	0786911972	713726346	Saga Companion (Dragonlance, 5th Age)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Must For Any Saga Game Narrator	A Saga Companion is a neat, compact addition to the Dragonlance Fifth Age Saga game, TSR's diceless, card-based version of the AD&amp;D Dragonlance game.<br />A Saga Companion offers a variety of rules simplifications, options, and additions for the Saga game's Narrator, many rules being written by players themselves rather than the TSR staff, who gathered these, their own ideas, and many of the Dragon Magazine's &quot;Sage Advice&quot; columns on the Saga game into one volume. The book, though compact, is concise and extremely easy to use, for the most part merely needing the Fate Deck to perform any action; very occasionally the reader is referred to the Book of the Fifth Age, Heroes of Hope, Heroes of Sorcery, or Heroes of Steel.<br />Adventure and story design tips (derived in part from Joseph Campbell's works on myth and folklore) are included. This book also offers creation guides for the Narrator to build new hero roles, hero races, monsters, spells, weapons, and armor. Design sheets for personal photocopying are provided for all of these save the weapons and armor.<br />A Saga Companion, while not perfect, is a must for any Saga game Narrator.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-30
US	47494168	R39D37IXMUUGAJ	0898798663	13512816	Writer's Complete Fantasy Reference: An Indispensible Compendium of Myth and Magic	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An Invaluable Resource For Anyone Creating Fantastic Worlds	An invaluable resource for writers, game designers, and anyone else creating works of fantasy in which it is importnat to understand how fantastic worlds can be effectively designed and structured. Subtitled &quot;An Indispensible Compendium of Myth and Magic&quot; and co-authored by fantasy giant Terry Brooks and SKIRMISHER Webmaster Michael Varhola. Brooks provides a vision and overall structure for the book, while Varhola draws on both his real-world experience and imagination to create comprehensive chapters on arms, armor, and armies; fantastic cultures based on those of our real world; and traditional fantasy cultures. Other chapters cover clothing and costumes, magic, monsters and creatures, denizens of a fantasy world, and just about every other topic needed to fully explore this fantasic subject.	2000-10-30
US	47494168	RJF8YPFV4YNVC	1568820410	766059795	Cthulhu Live: Live Action Horror Game Set in the Worlds of H.P. Lovecraft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Great Experience!	And they said it couldn't be done! The Great Old Ones themselves are stirring in their sepulchers over the first official live-action version of Chaosium's acclaimed Call of Cthulhu role-playing game. Based on the short stories of Howard Phillips Lovecraft (1890-1937) and the expansive group of writers known as the &quot;Lovecraft Circle,&quot; Call of Cthulhu took the gaming world by storm when it first appeared in 1981. Over the years, several organizations have created their own systems to bring Cthulhu gaming to life. This has been a challenging proposition at best.<br />Cthulhu Live is the first officially licensed live-action role-playing system for Call of Cthulhu. The book contains a tremendous amount of information, ranging from the game mechanics of character creation, skill use, and combat, to the more challenging tasks of make-up, costuming, monster building, prop construction, and running a live-action game.<br />Although it took 16 years for an official live-action Cthulhu to appear, it seems to have been well worth the wait. The basic rules structure is top-notch, streamlining the Call of Cthulhu rules into a simple, fast-playing system that is quickly mastered. I would rate the combat system as fair. It is one of the better non-contact systems I've seen for live-action gaming, but it's certainly the hardest element of the game for a new player to learn. We tried running a couple &quot;practice battles&quot; with all the players before starting the actual game, which seemed to help everyone later in the adventure.<br />The greatest challenge gamers might face is assembling a large enough group to run many of the adventures proposed in the rules. Eight to 10 players seem to be about the absolute minimum for Cthulhu Live, and some scripts call for 12 to 20 players. Obviously, such games lend themselves well to a convention setting, but some gamers may find a challenge recruiting that many players outside of a larger city or a college environment. Some challenges may also arise finding a suitable area to play the game, but the book includes tips on finding game locations and preparing houses and apartments for game play. Quite a bit of preparation is required for the games, and the game master, or &quot;Keeper,&quot; needs to have not only a good imagination and narrative skills, but some leadership and organizational abilities as well. This said, a well run session with a good Keeper and NPCs is a great experience.<br />Fantasy Flight Games has published a second edition of Cthulhu Live that has rules updates and additions, an optional new combat system, and several new adventures. Several other projects are also in the works, to include a game support website and players' network. A lot of gamers will be looking forward to the continuing development of the Cthulhu Live system. I know that I am one of them.<br />--Bob Apelt for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-23
US	47494168	R2S17KZC0X7IVM	0872168379	370776692	War Games	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Hardcore New World	Back in the early '80s, probably 1982, my friend Paul Knorr handed me a novel and said something like, &quot;Read this. You'll like it.&quot; I perused the cover, emblazoned with some fairly typical sci-fi soldier, and, humoring him, asked what it was about. <br />&quot;It's about soldiers,&quot; he said. &quot;They fight, then they have sex, then they do drugs, then they fight some more.&quot; Encouraging. Nonetheless, I accepted the book and read it. In short, War Games, by Karl Hansen and Kenneth Paul Rogers, is one of the most lurid, powerful works of science fiction I have ever read, a mutant cross between Aldous Huxley's Brave New World and Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers, with a solid dose of S&amp;M and narcotics abuse thrown in for good measure. <br />The 1981 novel was followed four years later by Dream Games, which was written by Hansen alone. War Games is far superior to Dream Games as a military science fiction novel. However, the latter book explores the workings of Hansen's universe in greater depth and provides answers to questions posed in the earlier work. Dream Games ends with a separatist invasion armada ringing Earth and preparing to launch a crushing attack -- bleak yes, but also inviting a sequel. A sequel that to date has not been forthcoming. <br />From a gaming point of view, especially that of role-playing, Hansen's books are ideal in that throughout them they describe a broad variety of weapons, armor, equipment, augmentations, and genetically manufactured races, and clearly delineate the socio-political and military environments his protagonists inhabit. Of course, the books are damned from a role-playing point of view, in that many parents would undoubtedly become upset if they knew just what sort of books their kid's new game was based on. Nonetheless, those of us who have both read Hansen and played TSR's Star Frontiers cannot fail to notice uncanny similarities between the arsenals of the books and the game.<br />Since reading War Games and Dream Games, I have continued to search for other works by Karl Hansen, but from what I can tell he only wrote those two. I have always wondered what happened to him, and sometimes entertain the notion that the righteous citizens of whatever town he lived in decided that burning him in effigy just wouldn't be good enough ... To my knowledge, the only other thing Kenneth Paul Rogers has written is some true crime book (which I have not read) about a convicted rapist-murderer. Maybe that would shed some light on the whole Hansen-Rogers disappearing act. And maybe I don't want to know. <br />--By Michael J. Varhola (Editor-in-Chief, Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine)	2000-10-23
US	47494168	RU0HVOCB0YGWG	0786907290	704937571	Alternity Gamemaster Guide	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Essential Element For An Exciting New Game	A core rulebook for TSR's new science fiction roleplaying game, the Alternity Gamemaster Guide provides ideas and essential rules for running an Alternity campaign. Alternity brings flexibility to the sci-fi gaming universe, allowing the gamemaster to create any sort of campaign, from friendly exploration and alien contacts to gritty, grim wars of vast planetary destruction. <br />Use of this book assumes ownership and working knowledge of the Alternity Player's Handbook. It covers the basics of running a roleplaying game for novices, Alternity's special quirks for the experienced gamemaster, adventure and campaign design, and fast-play rules for the impatient. Sections deal with details of handling character creation, personal statistics and their effects, hero careers, and non-player characters. Tips are given for designing new hero careers, alien races beyond the five provided in the Player's Handbook, and a variety of vehicles, star systems, individual planets, spacecraft, and alien artifacts. The Guide contains many short tables for effects and characteristics, and for determining species lifespans (as determined by technology level). Brief optional rules are also presented for mutants, psionics, cyborgs, artificial intelligence, and &quot;special effects&quot; (any magic, miracle, or superpower beyond the other rules provided). <br />For players' displeasure there are statistics for 15 dangerous animals from good old Terra and 20 generic alien creature types to modify for every alien need. TSR fantasy fans will find an appendix of conversion rules for bringing AD&amp;D characters, races, equipment, and spells into an Alternity game.<br />For ease in using published adventures and accessories, a sample nonplayer character statistics form with explanatory notes is provided. Also included are forms for ship design, ship status, and solar system design/record. There is an index of both this book and the Player's Handbook. <br />Alternity Gamemaster's Guide is an essential element in what promises to be an exciting new game in the science fiction game genre. <br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-23
US	47494168	R2N3T95HQ88Q6D	0786913193	83833064	Starships (Alternity Sci-Fi Roleplaying, #11319)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Time-Saving Addition To Any Alternity Campaign	Starships is an accessory to the popular Alternity sci-fi gaming system, a refreshingly clean and to-the-point book of ideas and optional rules in an industry of bloated add-ons. This supplement is designed to please both the casual gamemaster and the rabid spacecraft aficionado. <br />Alternity being a game with emphasis on &quot;design your own worlds&quot; campaigns, the first section of this book is largely about options and possibilities for combat, damage and tactics, space travel and its &quot;history&quot; in your campaign, star drives and other methods of star hopping (such as gates and wormholes), spaceports, and spaceship skills for heroes. Author David Eckelberry includes three styles of space combat system: &quot;narrative combat&quot; being the easiest, &quot;visual combat&quot; allowing more maneuvering detail, and &quot;3-D vector combat&quot; being for ruler-and-calculator fans. Ship design and systems are the topic for the second portion of the book; much of this information is handily stacked in table form and compact sidebars. The book's final section, easily the largest at 35 pages long, contains 18 predesigned ships with deck plans and descriptions, ranging from planet hopping two-seaters to freighters and cryogenic colony ships to military vessels. Optional features are suggested for most of the ships, making customization on the fly a snap, and the deck plans are detailed enough for quick creation of shipboard battle scenes.<br />Quite a timesaver; an excellent addition to an Alternity game.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-23
US	47494168	R34B64TPMKFKDN	0786912138	850932849	Campaign Kit (Alternity Sci-Fi Roleplaying, GM Screen + Forms)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good Tools For Your Alternity Game	The Alternity Campaign Kit contains several useful accessories for Alternity, TSR's new science fiction roleplaying game, including a gamemaster's screen and a 32-page booklet of assorted blank forms (for which permission is given to photocopy for personal use).<br />The four-panel cardstock gamemaster's screen displays tables for base situation dice and situation die steps; complex skill checks; statistics for ranged, melee, and heavy weapons; modifiers to unarmed, ranged, and melee attacks; vehicle and spaceship modifiers, movement, and attacks; accuracy for indirect fire weapons and thrown objects with modifiers for throwing; terrain modifiers, combat movement, overland movement, and fatigue checks; encumbrance; buying and selling; and situations modifiers for skills and resistance, medical science, investigation, and interactions.<br />The forms provided include individualized hero sheets for combat specialist, free agent, mindwalker, tech op, mutant, cyberneticist, diplomat/free agent, diplomat/mindwalker, and diplomat/tech op characters; supplement hero sheets; &quot;extras&quot; sheets; gamemaster's record form; ship's logs; ship's status; and ship design records (six body types).<br />Good tools for your Alternity game.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-23
US	47494168	R8UUB46F41E8N	0786912456	90616797	JAKANDOR: ISLE OF DESTINY (Adventure Supplement)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shows Great Promise and is Well Worth Picking Up	Jakandor, Isle of Destiny is the second of three parts in TSR's new Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons Odyssey campaign setting, intended for use with Jakandor, Island of War (part 1), and Jakandor, Land of Legend (part 3). Included are a full-color poster map, a bound Player's Guide, and a separate, pull-out DM's Lorebook. <br />This part of the Odyssey campaign is based on the clash of tribes of barbarians against a nation of wizards, the prize being the lands of Jakandor. A different major culture is detailed in the players' section of each set in this trilogy, each culture considering itself the epitome of human development (of course). With this set, players can construct characters from the nation of the Charonti, while the dungeon masters' section brings the traditional Charonti foes, the Knorr, to the field.<br />The Player's Guide gives readers the Charonti history from their creation myths through their rise and near-destruction to the present. Various chapters contain an overview of Charonti society, customs, rules, and caste system; unusual undead members of society; nine character kits specific to Charonti characters; new non-weapon proficiencies; new spells and magic items; and a list of commonplace magic items that might actually be available at market. <br />The first half of the DM's Lorebook covers the island and the Charonti foes. First up is a section for managing Jakandor's particular environs and the Charonti themselves, the topics including undead henchmen, wizardly training and assorted magic, and the Wasting Plague that nearly finished the Charonti race. Next, clans, cults, and magic are detailed for the creation of Knorr foes, as are character kits and the clans' Guardian Juggernauts. Note that in the first Odyssey set, Jakandor, Island of War, there are even more kits for non-player and player characters alike. In the second half of this booklet is an adventure for four to eight 1st level adventurers, to be personalized by the DM. In our review copy of the Lorebook, the texts of pages 4 and 5 were transposed (though the page numbers themselves were not) and the table of contents did not match the actual locations of listed sections.<br />An attractive, 25&quot; x 16&quot; player's map is included, and is deliberately cryptic, with some variable sites based on Charonti explorations and the DM's whim; a few details are added in the Lorebook, and the history of certain areas is given in the Player's Guide. More on these areas is contained in the previous Island of War product and a fully detailed map will come in Land of Legend when it is released.<br />Jakandor, Isle of Destiny shows great promise and is well worth picking up.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R13DRYZHPK2W8C	0786907657	704470455	Champions of the Mists (AD&D Fantasy Roleplaying, Ravenloft Setting)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Fine Addition to the 'Ravenloft' Campaign	This supplement to the Ravenloft campaign contains new character kits and game statistics for famous characters from the Ravenloft novels and the campaign book Domains of Dread.<br />Character kits include temporary conditions kits (a lot can happen to you out on the Demiplane of Dread) and adventuring kits for adoption by both existing and newly created characters. The kits consist of the following: Accursed, Cold One (a horrid aftermath of an undead encounter), Eremite (a wizard kit in which spells are brewed, not spoken), Fugitive, Ghostwatcher, the Green Hand (for priests of Osiris), Invisible (a rogue kit for agents of a secret order), Knight of the Shadows (a Ravenloft avenger class kit), Monster Hunter, Order of the Guardians (a monastic priest kit), Pistoleer, Psychic, Redeemed (for the once-evil character), and Spiritualist (a wizard kit).<br />Ravenloft heroes provided in this book illustrate some of the above character kits, and are of various good and neutral alignments; the author gives notes or &quot;adventure hooks&quot; on how to use each hero to create adventures, or just trouble, in your own campaign. The heroes are Brother Dominic, Ivan Dragonov the monster hunter, Gondegal (formerly the conqueror of Arabel in the Forgotten Realms campaign, now trapped in Ravenloft), Hermos the man-giant, Tara Kolyana the anchorite, the married spiritualists Hilda and Friedrich Kreutzer, Alanik Ray (Ravenloft's answer to Sherlock Holmes), the druid and dancer Larissa Snowmane, and the bitter, obsessed George Weathermay.<br />A fine addition to the Ravenloft campaign.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R3GAXDZ6WZZGSH	0786912472	641540128	Return of the Eight (AD&D Fantasy Rolepaying, Greyhawk Setting)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Diverse, Enjoyable Adventure for a Smart, Tough Party	Return of the Eight, an adventure set in Greyhawk, gives player characters the opportunity to save that most famous of AD&amp;D cities and civilization in the Flanaess along with it. It is intended for four to eight characters of levels 6 to 12. <br />Return of the Eight includes a variety of enjoyable fantasy elements from the world Greyhawk that are likely to appeal to players familiar with this milieu, including exploration of famous wizards' towers and lairs; potential encounters with such legendary beings as Tuerny the Merciless and Tenser the Archmage; and battles in a variety of exotic venues with many sorts of dangerous foes. <br />The few maps in this 64-page adventure are decent, especially the colored ones on the inside covers. A few other illustrations appear throughout the booklet but are generally unexciting (some done by an artist with only a limited knowledge of weapons; i.e., a war hammer looks like something intended for tapping beer kegs, and a battle ax is shown at least twice as large as it should be). <br />A party will fare best in Return of the Eight if it is strong and well-played and contains one or more paladins or rangers and a tough wizard; other parties can still succeed, of course, but should expect to suffer more casualties and grief ... <br />  --Michael J. Varhola for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R2FSN6AASFZW6L	0786912359	698227688	The Fall of Myth Drannor (AD&D/Forgotten Realms/Arcane Age Adventure)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	An Elvish History Book	The Fall of Myth Drannor tells the story of the destruction of the famous elven city in the ancient days of TSR's Forgotten Realms campaign. Labeled an &quot;adventure,&quot; this accessory is more of a campaign resource to be used with Cormanthyr: Empire of Elves, another Arcane Age product for the Realms.<br />The Fall of Myth Drannor is largely an elvish history. Adventure possibilities for a variety of situations along the timeline given are provided for both Arcane Age campaigns and for time-hopping characters from the modern Realms. The Fall of Myth Drannor contains an overall discussion of the whys and hows of Myth Drannor's end, and a brief description of each campaign and battle of &quot;the Weeping War&quot; and of the battles of the N'Vaelahr secret agents. &quot;Lost&quot; magic items, oddities, and spells of the elves from this time are also detailed. There is also a glossary for unusual elvish terms from this product, and a brief list of heroes and villains and some of their characteristics to help in keeping the numerous creatures and elves sorted out.<br />	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R37EQTZUCWPID	0441166911	203418380	Dream Games	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Hardcore New World Revisited	Back in the early '80s, probably 1982, my friend Paul Knorr handed me a novel and said something like, &quot;Read this. You'll like it.&quot; I perused the cover, emblazoned with some fairly typical sci-fi soldier, and, humoring him, asked what it was about.<br />&quot;It's about soldiers,&quot; he said. &quot;They fight, then they have sex, then they do drugs, then they fight some more.&quot; Encouraging. Nonetheless, I accepted the book and read it. In short, War Games, by Karl Hansen and Kenneth Paul Rogers, is one of the most lurid, powerful works of science fiction I have ever read, a mutant cross between Aldous Huxley's Brave New World and Robert Heinlein's Starship Troopers, with a solid dose of S&amp;M and narcotics abuse thrown in for good measure.<br />The 1981 novel was followed four years later by Dream Games, which was written by Hansen alone. War Games is far superior to Dream Games as a military science fiction novel. However, the latter book explores the workings of Hansen's universe in greater depth and provides answers to questions posed in the earlier work. Dream Games ends with a separatist invasion armada ringing Earth and preparing to launch a crushing attack -- bleak yes, but also inviting a sequel. A sequel that to date has not been forthcoming.<br />From a gaming point of view, especially that of role-playing, Hansen's books are ideal in that throughout them they describe a broad variety of weapons, armor, equipment, augmentations, and genetically manufactured races, and clearly delineate the socio-political and military environments his protagonists inhabit. Of course, the books are damned from a role-playing point of view, in that many parents would undoubtedly become upset if they knew just what sort of books their kid's new game was based on. (Remember all the flak D&amp;D has gotten, especially in the '80s?) Nonetheless, those of us who have both read Hansen and played TSR's Star Frontiers cannot fail to notice uncanny similarities between the arsenals of the books and the game.<br />Since reading War Games and Dream Games, I have continued to search for other works by Karl Hansen, but from what I can tell he only wrote those two. I have always wondered what happened to him, and sometimes entertain the notion that the righteous citizens of whatever town he lived in decided that burning him in effigy just wouldn't be good enough ... To my knowledge, the only other thing Kenneth Paul Rogers has written is some true crime book (which I have not read) about a convicted rapist-murderer. Maybe that would shed some light on the whole Hansen-Rogers disappearing act. And maybe I don't want to know.<br />--By Michael J. Varhola for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazineetween the arsenals of the books and the game.<br />Since reading War Games and Dream Games, I have continued to search for other works by Karl Hansen, but from what I can tell he only wrote those two. I have always wondered what happened to him, and sometimes entertain the notion that the righteous citizens of whatever town he lived in decided that burning him in effigy just wouldn't be good enough ... To my knowledge, the only other thing Kenneth Paul Rogers has written is some true crime book (which I have not read) about a convicted rapist-murderer. Maybe that would shed some light on the whole Hansen-Rogers disappearing act. And maybe I don't want to know. <br />--By Michael J. Varhola for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R3N6XX0QP7FKDD	0786906723	878987572	Domains of Dread (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Ravenloft, Campaign Setting/2174)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Romp on the Dark Side for Fans of Fantasy Horror	Domains of Dread takes TSR's popular gothic horror Ravenloft setting and gives it a new soul: an evil one, naturally. Imagine a city whose sewers materialized from another dimension, a heart-eating mummy who retains her beauty, or a lithe and limber Frankenstein's monster as lord over his own land, and you'll start to get an idea of the new and improved Ravenloft.<br />This expanded version of Ravenloft contains a much wider geography of the Demiplane of Dread, and for the first time includes the option for playing characters who are Ravenloft natives. Included is a chronology that sets all previous Ravenloft publications, whether novels, adventures, or accessories, into context as the history of the current campaign book. Earlier Ravenloft material is also tied in, item-by-item, to each description of a land, realm, island, or kingdom (called domains) and the lord of each region. Enough background is presented so that an inventive dungeon master can proceed from the material given, while those interested in the novels and available adventures may single out which products they may be interested in buying. <br />Domains introduces four new character classes (avenger, anchorite, gypsy, and arcanist) as well as one new race, the half-Vistani. All changes and effects pertaining to spells, items, and character traits in Ravenloft settings are included, along with special rules applying only to Ravenloft. New sections explain the rewritten fear, horror, and madness checks for characters. However, dungeon masters will find that some of the other Ravenloft products, particularly the Monstrous Compendiums, are necessary in order to use this campaign book. <br />The emphasis is, of course, on creepy: many of the characters and situations in Domains will be familiar from classical horror literature, with different names of course. Vampires and lycanthropes abound; Dr. Jekyll's spiritual brother is here; and Dr. Frankenstein, as Victor Mordenheim, seems to have acquired an unwanted empathic link with his creation. Other classic characters with a delicious horror twist appear here, such as a domain lord called &quot;Pinocchio&quot; who led his wooden brothers and sisters on a murderous rampage.<br />A &quot;nice&quot; romp on the dark side for fans of horror and things of the night.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R1HQH6QMIKNU0J	0786912480	673526474	Player's Guide to Greyhawk (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons/AD&D)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Will Be Appreciated By Veteran And Novice Gamers Alike	The World of Greyhawk, one of TSR's first and most popular AD&amp;D game settings, is revisited in the Player's Guide to Greyhawk, an accessory that will be appreciated by old fans of Greyhawk who wish to return to this exciting milieu and by newer gamers who have yet to experience it.<br />This accessory includes an introduction to the world of Oerth; an overview of the Flanaess (the continent central to Greyhawk adventures), a section of gods and other political and supernatural powers; information on the city of Greyhawk itself; notes on the various races of the game world; special information on roleplaying in the Flanaess; &quot;Adventuring Attractions in the Central Flanaess&quot; (i.e., the vicinity of Greyhawk City); and several player character kits, three of them for orders of knighthood.<br />Graphic elements include a double-sided, 11&quot; x 17&quot; cardstock insert that features a full color map of the Flanaess on one side and the domain of the city of Greyhawk on the other. The maps are colorful and attractive, and whereas the Flanaess map is not nearly as impressive as the two posters that used to depict it, it is more wieldy; the Greyhawk domain map is well detailed and will prove a useful tool to anyone running an adventure in the region. Other color graphics include depictions of the symbols of major Greyhawk gods and powers (e.g., the hand and eye of Vecna, and the arrows and iron gauntlet of Hextor).<br />The Player's Guide to Greyhawk is well organized, fun to look through, and comprehensive enough to be of real value to players and DMs involved in Greyhawk adventures.<br />--Michael J. Varhola for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R19EWNPZ89XU9B	0871771454	424556878	3D Ultra Pinball Creep Night         C/Ww95/Us	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Non-Stop Pinball Creepshow!	Pinball fans will love 3-D Ultra Pinball: Creep Night, a classic pinball game with three main tables and a challenging (and hard to get to) bonus table. To 3-D Ultra Pinball, a fast-paced computer game that precisely simulates the action of real arcade pinball, Sierra has added a non-stop creepshow of multiple bonuses, surprises, hidden levels, moving targets, and reward animations. Action is simple, with left mouse button controlling left flippers and right mouse button controlling right flippers. Every game is a bit different than the last, and special features include rats and skeletons that you can smash with your balls, gargoyles that will pick them up and deposit them elsewhere on the table, and wraiths and vortexes that will eat them. A non-stop-fun pinball simulator.	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R2IXHWHM1CNWBO	0786912367	606949234	Villains' Lorebook (AD&D/Advanced Dungeons & Dragons/Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Dark Cornucopia of Characters, Magic, and Monsters	Villains' Lorebook presents a cornucopia of characters, magic, and monsters collected from Forgotten Realms novels, short stories, articles, and accessories (several out of print). Dungeon masters will find a generous spread of ideas for possible encounters and long-term adventures. <br />A companion volume to Heroes' Lorebook, this accessory acts as a sampler of rogues (unlike the Heroes' volume, which tried to present ALL the heroes of the Realms). Twenty-nine juicy villains have been converted from the Realms' huge selection of fiction, ranging from Drizzt Do'Urden's foe Artemis Entreri to the 29th necromancer lich Szass Tam. Extended charts for THAC0s and spell progression from levels 1 to 40 are provided conveniently in the front of the book. <br />Supplementary materials include large sections of evil organizations, magic items, priest and wizard spells, and monsters (five of them unique individuals such as the balor Errtu and the venerable red dragon Mist), making this collection a delightful resource for any DM. <br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R1WEAJ481PSRSH	0786902337	798088084	Dragon Dice Game: A Fast and Furious Conflict Between Dice Armies You Build (Hit Dice Collectible Dice Game)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Roll Playing At Its Best	In TSR's Dragon Dice collectible dice game, players build &quot;armies&quot; from their dice collections of warriors, magic items, monsters, and weird creatures, then roll dice to play out the battle. Play may include summoning dragons to join the armies, and the variety of dice collections possible with the random dice included here and in &quot;Kicker Packs&quot; adds as much diversity to this fast-paced game as do the rolls of the dice. <br />Play is set in the world of Esfah, which you battle to control. The basic set includes dwarves or Vagha, whose magic combines the powers of Fire and Earth; goblins or Trogs, whose powers use Death and Earth magic; coral elves or Selumari, who command Air and Water; and lava elves or Morehi, magician of Fire and Death magic. The various Expansion sets and Kicker packs available for Dragon Dice (see below) allow the player to add rules for a broader game and expand his collection with artifacts, magic items, and many other races. Dice included are of many possible kinds. Dragon Dice sets of any kind are each a unique collection of dice from a large group of possible dice, so multiple purchases of any given type of set serve to enlarge and diversify your dice army. <br />Dragon Dice accessories and kicker packs include Battle Ground, Dice Commander's Manual, Dragon Shield, Kicker Pack 1: Monsters and Amazons, Kicker Pack 2: Firewalkers, Kicker Pack 3: Undead, and Kicker Pack 5: Swamp Stalkers.	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R25QRGIC2P2UI0	0786907320	361340904	Return to the Tomb of Horrors (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Tomes)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	An Intense Deathtrap Challenge Even For Experienced Players	Return to the Tomb of Horrors is a new boxed adventure module based on the old S1: Tomb of Horrors module from tournaments and 1st edition AD&amp;D. The scenario is intended for four to eight characters from 13th to 16th level. Like the original Tomb by Gary Gygax, Cordell's Return is an intense deathtrap challenge even for experienced veterans of the game.<br />Set in Greyhawk but usable in any campaign, this adventure begins with mysterious villager disappearances and swarms of undead. Your party comes to investigate and becomes entangled in a web of deadly schemes. But what does this have to do with the original Tomb of Horrors? The one that's been dared by many, plundered by few, over the years? Well, it's still in business, and still merrily eating heroes. But if the original deathtrap dungeon was a satisfying meal, this new adventure, wrapped around the original module and set 20 years later, is a murderous banquet. This is the first dungeon adventure I've ever read where I actually felt sorry for the players, and I'm including the original Tomb in that. The new story enfolds the original dungeon crawl in a deadly blanket of new traps and additional story, creating a hideous multi-stage gauntlet for anyone seeking the final mystery at the end. Yes, you get to visit the Tomb itself again, but its significance has changed and deepened.<br />I have to agree with the author on the use of characters for this adventure: either the group ought to be specifically rolled up for this adventure, or, if the players' regular favorites are to be run through the scenario, tone the thing down, WAAAYYY down. There are sections in this beastly tome that can kill one character per page, and, as the party penetrates the deeper mysteries, the killer trap rate escalates to one or more per room. This makes a party of four-to-eight high-level PCs seem rather puny, and suggests a horde of henchmen, hirelings, and cannon fodder, preferably walking out in front.<br />Can someone familiar with the original Tomb play or enjoy this? Absolutely. In fact, I'd like to see a group of players, all either DMs who have run Tomb or players who went through it successfully, go through the Return to the Tomb of Horrors. Maybe they'd live long enough to get to the second half of the adventure. Maybe.<br />This boxed set is stuffed with goodies. There are nine maps and seven new monsters in a full-color maps and monsters book. The maps are very clear, with one exception: Map 3 is so darkly printed that the color-coding is very difficult to make out, but I believe that because of the restricted movement in those areas there should be little impact on play. An illustrated &quot;module&quot; of 160 pages, with appendices of new spells and magic items, includes many &quot;old&quot; spells relying on several other AD&amp;D books (some out of print) but the author urges the DM to make appropriate substitutions when necessary. There is a facsimile of the original S1: Tomb of Horrors module, which is actually used in play. DMs will want to go through this and make detailed adjustments beforehand, since it is not written to 2nd edition AD&amp;D standards. No problem for collectors worried about the value of your original copy: this is not an exact facsimile, as the illustration booklet is bound into the middle. A new illustration book holds scenes to be shown to the players at various points in the adventure, and because since there are two scenes on each page you might want keep a sheet of plain paper folded length-wise handy for covering the second illustration. Lastly, there are handouts for the players, consisting of an eight-page &quot;journal&quot; (in a very difficult font) and a double-sided color card, with special instructions for photocopying and preparation.<br />In playing this adventure DMs may want to keep in mind their particular players' temperament and game style: are they looking for a real, undiluted challenge, or are they going to be murderously upset by the DM making their PCs into elf flambe, dwarf kabobs, and Halfling hash in one evening? If there is serious risk of you becoming a DM pretzel, you might want to edit this severely and just integrate it into your regular campaign.<br />Return to the Tomb of Horrors is an excellent adventure in the old module style.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazineupset by the DM making their PCs into elf flambe, dwarf kabobs, and Halfling hash in one evening? If there is serious risk of you becoming a DM pretzel, you might want to edit this severely and just integrate it into your regular campaign.<br />Return to the Tomb of Horrors is an excellent adventure in the old module style.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R20O6NR9BZ2T37	0786912049	394074518	Tales from the Infinite Staircase (AD&D/Planescape Adventure)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Exotic, Mutilayered Quest	Planar travel without gates or portals, and a mystery to solve . . . Prepare your party for a lot of climbing as you journey through the Planes in search of adventures and answers. Author Cook has prepared an exotic layered quest for not only the Planescape campaign but also any other AD&amp;D adventures.<br />Tales from the Infinite Staircase is an intricate set of eight interwoven adventures written around a central mystery, adventures that can be played alone or as the components of a single journey.<br />This volume introduces the concept of the Infinite Staircase throughout the Planes, linking it to the independent adventure For Duty &amp; Deity (Forgotten Realms), which may be used along with Tales for Forgotten Realms and Planescape alike. Detailed notes are provided in each book for weaving the two together, or for playing any or all of the eight adventures in Tales in any Prime Material Plane campaign. The Tales themselves run a little toward the creepy, and vary from good places for getting lost and exploring to areas for finding necessary components in solving the book's central mystery. The variety here makes possible the extraction of any one tale for individual use, or for the party to visit, leave for a game year, and come back to re-enter the mystery if desired. Characters of good alignment are guaranteed to be badly stressed out by the beings they may need to ally with and the places they must go.<br />Presented as a stand-alone AD&amp;D product for any campaign as well as for Planescape, this book contains the most basic information beyond the core AD&amp;D rulebooks to run adventures out on some of the many Planes of existence. The imaginative non-Planescape dungeon master whose gaming group is not composed of book-bound rules lawyers will be perfectly able to manage here. However, many DMs new to the Planescape may end up wanting additional background on creatures, Planes, and the structure of the Planar universe, and the Planescape Monstrous Appendix I &amp; II books will be of the greatest help here. Other helpful books and sets to beg, buy, or borrow for use with these adventures are the Planewalker's Handbook, A Guide to the Astral Plane, Planes of Law, and Planes of Chaos. The web of connections among these eight tales is quite complex and these volumes will cut down on the amount of notetaking, bookmarking, and sheer inventing that a dungeon master may require. The amount of Planescape slang (from the city of Sigil) in this book is fortunately kept to a minimum, easing beginner traumas.<br />Frankly, the statistics and information Cook gives for creatures and individuals could be much more conveniently arranged. Because monsters may pop up in many tales but are only fully described in one tale, the creature information should have either been all collected in one place, or, given the size of each section, more specific cross-references beyond &quot;see Tale 8&quot; ought to have been included.<br />This adventure is intended for a party of 3rd to 5th level Planescape characters, or for higher level characters from other campaigns. Possible adjustments for difficulty level are included in this book and the independent companion piece For Duty &amp; Deity.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R4SQCQI6G86KZ	0786915439	1751540	Advanced Dungeons and Dragons Core Rules 2.0 Expansion CD-ROM	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Great Tool Package For Serious AD&amp;D Players And DMs	AD&amp;D Core Rules 2.0 on CD-ROM is a great tool package for serious AD&amp;D enthusiasts, players and DMs alike. The high quality of this new release is a great relief after the poor showing of the first version.<br />Program tools include complete text of nine key rule books, a character generator, improved dungeon, city and wilderness mapmakers, dice roller software, and a DM's toolkit with programs for automatically generating encounters, treasure troves, spells, NPCs, and more.<br />Mapping is provided through two different programs, the Map Maker and the Campaign Mapper. The former quickly creates City, Dungeon, and Overland maps, with neatly detailed symbols and some randomized variety in repetitive, placed features such as trees, houses, and mountains. The Campaign Mapper is much more complex, and will be very familiar to users of ProFantasy's Campaign Cartographer. In this program, maps are built in multiple layers and encounter data can be linked to the maps. Grids toggle on and off in either program; printing is available in both black-and-white and color. Both programs are miles beyond the original Core Rules map generator and an invaluable aid to the DM tired-to-death of graph paper and smudges.<br />The highly-detailed character generator can be set for either Core or &quot;Player's Option&quot; rules, and quickly creates fully-equipped PCs and any level of NPCs complete with spells, skills, and, if desired, random names (some strange but interesting results, a feature probably of more use to the DM). Twelve methods of characteristic generation are provided, from straight &quot;you're-stuck-with-these-stats&quot; to the manual entry of numbers. An optional \\"city\\" interface provides \\"buildings\\" to visit for creating all of the character's various skills and items.<br />Nine on-line books are included: Monstrous Manual, Player's Handbook, Dungeon Master Guide, Arms &amp; Equipment Guide, Tome of Magic, Dungeon Master Option: High Level Campaigns, and the three Player's Option books: Combat &amp; Tactics, Skills &amp; Powers, and Spells &amp; Magic. No pictures, all text, but quite a treasure trove for the price of the program, considering the price of acquiring physical copies of all of the books.<br />Encounters and monsters (lair and wandering), treasures, and NPCs are quickly set up by the DM toolkit. The installed database is customizable for house rules, letting DMs add their own monsters, character races, equipment, skills/proficiencies, magic items, racial abilities, powers, and spells, a flexibility sorely lacking in the previous version.<br />The value of this CD-ROM for the DM is enormous. Several of the various areas of the program can be run simultaneously, a great convenience for writing an adventure (the cyber equivalent of spreading out your books). For a pressing game deadline, reference sheets can be quickly printed, fast dice \\"rolled,\\" and NPCs and encounters swiftly generated, with the creation of maps probably taking the most time. With all this, all the DM needs is a good idea!<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	RSFD4HNFEOOOS	0871771454	424556878	3D Ultra Pinball Creep Night         C/Ww95/Us	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Non-Stop Pinball Creepshow!	Pinball fans will love 3-D Ultra Pinball: Creep Night, a classic pinball game with three main tables and a challenging (and hard to get to) bonus table. To 3-D Ultra Pinball, a fast-paced computer game that precisely simulates the action of real arcade pinball, Sierra has added a non-stop creepshow of multiple bonuses, surprises, hidden levels, moving targets, and reward animations. Action is simple, with left mouse button controlling left flippers and right mouse button controlling right flippers. Every game is a bit different than the last, and special features include rats and skeletons that you can smash with your balls, gargoyles that will pick them up and deposit them elsewhere on the table, and wraiths and vortexes that will eat them. A non-stop-fun pinball simulator.	2000-10-20
US	47494168	R1MFGO6M3O0WER	0786912340	985139394	For Duty and Deity (AD&D/Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Worthwhile Forgotten Realms/Planescape Adventure	In For Duty &amp; Deity, an adventure suitable for both Forgotten Realms and Planescape campaigns, characters descend into the Abyss at the behest of the church of the goddess of wealth. While there is the ultimate promise of golden gains, there is also the problem that demons are involved ... <br />For Duty &amp; Deity is a fast-paced adventure that begins on Toril with the mystery of the missing Faerunian goddess of trade and wealth, Waukeen, whose place has been assumed by the goddess Lliira, acting as &quot;regent&quot; to Waukeen's powers since the Time of Troubles. The Holycoin, high priest of Waukeen, wishes to solve the mystery, calling on your party of adventurers for a quest that will eventually take them to the Abyss itself.<br />This tale incorporates the concept of the Infinite Staircase through the Planes of existence, linking it to the independent adventure anthology Tales from the Infinite Staircase (Planescape), which may be used along with Duty for either Forgotten Realms or Planescape, or alone in any campaign with a DM wishing to take the good fight out onto the Planes. Detailed notes are provided in each book for weaving either Duty into a Planescape campaign, or any of the eight adventures in Tales into Duty or any Prime Material Plane campaign.<br />The writing is very clean and concise, with all statistics for creatures and individuals provided nicely and conveniently arranged. Ownership of any of the Planescape products is not necessary, though some DMs may like to have the Planescape Monstrous Appendix I &amp; II books for more creature background. Those curious for more on the Abyss itself may want the Planescape Planes of Chaos boxed set, but there is more than enough here to be able to complete the Duty adventure without it. Rules changes for magic in the Abyss are also included. There are two page numbers omitted in references in our review copy: help is provided above for those with such errors in their copies.<br />This adventure is intended for a well-balanced party of high level characters of good alignment. The companion volume of Tales from the Infinite Staircase is intended for 3rd to 5th level Planescape characters, but as an inherently planar set of adventures could be easily interwoven into Duty for the same high level party (possible adjustments for difficulty level are included in each book).<br />A worthwhile journey, For Duty &amp; Deity is a must for any Forgotten Realms campaign.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-20
US	47494168	RYP39PBU1BSEZ	1568933630	807611445	Quake	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Long on Challenge, Short on Originality	Quake is a fast-paced, first person combat game that combines an improved Doom-style system and monsters with unimproved Doom-style weapons and storyline.<br />Four &quot;dimensions,&quot; or game sections, each divided into five to eight levels, comprise the world of Quake. These sections, &quot;Dimension of the Doomed,&quot; &quot;Realm of Black Magic,&quot; &quot;Netherworld,&quot; and &quot;The Elder World,&quot; are dungeon-like settings infested with a wide variety of monsters, traps, secret areas, and hazards. Players must locate keys, typically two per level, in order to progress to the finish. No &quot;action&quot; button(e.g., the space bar in most Doom-style games) is required to open doors or push buttons; such feature are automatically activated when the character is in proximity. Looking and shooting in all directions, including up and down, and swimming are some of the improvements upon the Doom-style system. <br />A unique interface at the start of a new game allows a player to select different hallways for &quot;Easy,&quot; &quot;Medium,&quot; &quot;Hard,&quot; or &quot;Nightmare&quot; difficulty levels (although the entrance to the latter is actually hidden, so people don't wander into it accidentally). Once difficulty level is selected, the player can enter any of the dimensions. While it is recommended that the dimensions be played through in order, this sort of interface essentially allows players to switch difficulty level in between levels, if desired. <br />Characters start off with an axe--decidely less dramatic than the Doom chainsaw--and a shotgun with 25 shells, and rapidly acquire an arsenal of progressively deadlier weapons, including a double-barrelled shotgun, a &quot;nailgun,&quot; a &quot;perforator,&quot; a grenade launcher, a rocket launcher, and a &quot;thunderbolt,&quot; as well as ammunition, armor, and various power-ups, such as health, protective suits, rings of invisibility, pentagrams of protection, and a rune that temporarily quadruples your damage, turning you into even more of a killing machine. When a new dimension is entered, your character once again starts off with a shotgun and 25 shells (and the stupid axe). <br />Monsters include rottweilers, grunts and enforcers (basic soldier types), knights and deathknights (heavily armored, sword-wielding fiends), rotfish (to make the water hazards even more hazardous), zombies that won't stay dead, scrags (sort of like flying worms), ogres (armed with chainsaws and grenades), spawns (big ugly bouncing blobs), fiends (demonic werewolves), vores (spidery monsters), and shamblers (huge beasts that sling lightning). According to the manual, grunts are &quot;goons with probes inserted into their pleasure centers, wired up so that when they kill someone, they get paroxysms of ecstasy.&quot; Gratefully, no evidence for this is provided in the game. <br />Unfortunately, for all that it has going for it, many aspects of Quake also suffer from a marked unoriginality. &quot;You get the phone call at 4 a.m. and by 5:30 you're in the secret installation,&quot; the introduction to the game begins. Oh no, not 4 a.m.! Horrors! It then goes on to explain how you are a top notch government agent that must keep some evil being from opening the gates of hell and overrunning the world. Sound familiar? It should, seeing as it is the plot for fully half the Doom-style computer games on the market, including Doom. For a game that clearly required many months of work to produce, it is a bit sad that only about 20 minutes went into developing the background. <br />And while the weapons are pretty neat, they are not overly original. Essentially, you get two types of shotgun, two types of machine gun, two types of grenade launcher, and an energy weapon. Oh, and that damned axe, which does not even go &quot;swish&quot; or &quot;chunk.&quot; In short, a selection that does not measure up to the weapons arrays of Doom or Strife. And some of the monsters, such as thegrunts and enforcers, seem repackaged from earlier games. <br />Overall, however, Quake is a very worthwhile, challenging game that is certain to be a hit with most people who like this style of game. Its hackneyed elements do not really detract from play; a bit more originality, however, might have made this game even more enjoyable.<br />--Michael Varhola for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-19
US	47494168	R33TGKIQLPQ3WJ	0786912057	910083097	A Guide to the Ethereal Plane (AD&D/Planescape)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Weird worlds, hazardous conditions, and dangerous beings	A Guide to the Ethereal Plane is a manual for DMs who run Planescape campaigns and for those wanting planar detours or extra dimensions for their Prime Material campaign. Weird worlds, hazardous conditions, and dangerous inhabitants abound within this enjoyable volume.<br />First up is an explanation of the misty Ethereal Plane and its parts: its conditions, its geography, what the Border and the Deep Ethereal are, and how the Prime Material and Elemental Planes interact with the Ethereal. Included are the special dangers of the Deep, such as ether cyclones and vortex fronts, and how to manipulate the material substance of the ether. <br />A magic section includes special spell effects and new spells and magic items; the perils of illusions and of having them warp or even come to life make for some interesting reading. Demiplanes and their design are covered at length (including currently known demiplanes, such as the Demiplane of Dread, a.k.a. Ravenloft). Dream adventuring has a special chapter of its own (dreams having a certain dangerous solidity on the Ethereal). <br />In the monster section, the author presents quite a mix of creatures: Prime Material critters with ethereal sight and combat; new Ethereal inhabitants, including two species suitable for PC characters; and old Ethereal inhabitants from a broad selection of TSR past products (many no longer available). Finally, several locations on the plane are described, some at sufficient length for the DM to create mini-adventures concerning them.<br />An excellent book for DMs whose campaigns ever venture away from solid ground.<br />--Sharon Daugherty for Skirmisher Online Gaming Magazine	2000-10-19
