US	47571143	RZ7CF7MGRFQAQ	1552125866	536790837	Gathering Our Divinity	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Inspirational!	In a world full of self help books, along has come an entry that is not the same old thing.  Allthough it does share in spirit many truths that other gurus have proferred, they are presented in a new light, one that is easy to read and gives the reader much to think about.  <BR> <BR>The author leads the reader on a journey of healing in three mini books. One is taught to love one's self, to forgive self, and to accept their role as part of the Divine plan. In learning to love the self, one loves and forgives others, and God. Being healed is essential to experiencing any good in life. <BR> <BR>There are other points to be made, but as in the most profound areas of life, they can not be summed up in a review, they must be read and personalized. A few were mentioned here only to give you the idea of what to expect when you begin the journey of this book.  If you have ever read Betty Tapscott or Norman Vincent Peale, or Joyce Meyer, you will enjoy this book. There is value in it, even if you can not agree on every issue. <br />Romance At Its Best	2002-06-04
US	47571143	R36B6UKGB64X7I	0373272286	944002566	Wedding at White Sands (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1158)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Different & Enchanting!	Allie St. James owns her own private investigation office. She tracks criminals and slim for a living. Jake Larson has his own company as well along with a little boy named Robbie. After meeting initially because of a visit from Robbie, they meet again in White Sands on business. Because of Allie's dramatics they end up close - really close in fact. Both of their jobs are dangerous but neither dreamed how dangerous until it kicked them both in the guts as they stared death them in the face. While they are both trying to finish their jobs something forms between them that neither could nor would have ever expected; love. Their week in White Sands was magical.<br />Allie is colorful and charismatic! Jake is so scared of being hurt again that it's almost too late when he drops his defenses for love. Together they are oil and vinegar, different as night and day but perfect for each other. They complete the other. WEDDING AT WHITE SANDS is sweet, sexy, and filled with suspense!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-06-03
US	47571143	RUISBXJEC4UIY	0505524457	924479709	The Pleasure Master	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Hot!	The Pleasure Master is a man who knows his business; pleasuring women. He gives women just what they want and more. Kathy Bartlett traveled back in time with her cell phone and some very unusual toys to 1542. The people she first met are unusual, and highlanders. As they advance on her, she sprays mousse on their \\"love guns\\". The first of them, Ian Ross, isn't so easy to frighten, as his two brothers run away in terror. Later they issue him a challenge that he can't let go. He must give Kathy his best. If it proves that they can meet their challenge before he does, the one that does becomes The Pleasure Master. Ian isn't one to back away from a challenge, and seeks to win the bet. In the end, though, it is Kathy who wins, especially with her heart. As their blood heats up and the men in Ian's family try to win the title, the one thing they never counted on was love. <br />Ian is arrogant, yet truthful in his arrogance. He also has a deeply hidden vulnerability and a need for reassurance. Kathy pretends to be strong when she really is scared inside. She never bets on Ian shaking her up and stealing her heart. They are two very special characters. THE PLEASURE MASTER is fun, exciting, and comical! I can't wait for Ms. Bang's next book! <br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-30
US	47571143	R1TFG699N1G4O	0373710585	916660474	Shooting the Moon (Harlequin Superromance No. 1058)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sweet and Lovely!	Harley Nelson left Portland ten years ago, but when he left, he left a child behind too. Ten years later he is back for his son. Audra, whom he once loved, died from drugs, leaving behind Brandon, their son. He came back to town with determination and a past. Lauren Worthington just happened to be Audra's sister, and Brandon's mother in every sense but biologically. She loved Brandon more than life itself. He might as well as have been born hers. <br />Harley made Lauren nervous, her heart beat, and her breath catch just when he was near. Too bad Lauren was born in the wrong family, at least as far as Harley was concerned, but then she was known as the Ice Queen anyway. Slowly as the book progressed, so did their attraction and the heat that simmered between them. Their lives grew more and more complicated as Lauren's parents came into the picture... especially since it was her father that had started it all those years ago. <br />Lauren is strong but has vulnerabilities just as Harley has a tough front but a soft center. Sometimes he reminds you of a teddy bear but others as the devil incarnate. Together they are real and lively. <br />SHOOTING THE MOON is interesting as it is sweet and special. Ms. Novak as done a fabulous job! <br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-30
US	47571143	R2KYFGTWI1GQJ8	0373195613	938071312	Marine & The Princess (Silhouette Romance)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Sweet & Sexy...	Princess Vanessa just wanted some time off! She had been a princess twenty-four hours a day and seven days a week for so long she couldn't remember when she wasn't and enough was enough. She was taking action! She decided to take a vacation and see the sights. Marine Corps Captain Mark Wilders does a favor for his sister-in-law and goes to Vanessa to be her personal guard. Going out into New York to sight see, eat, shop and be merry. Little does she know she is going to fall madly and deeply for the handsome man in uniform and boy does he look sexy in it! Being away she is free to think about her dreams and hopes that she keeps hidden deep inside her. Mark just wants to do his favor and get out of there until he meets her. Everything was going splendidly until her father had security guards come for her. Then the truth came out and it just wasn't a pleasant truth.<br />Vanessa could be a snob. She could be witchy but she isn't either. Instead she is a kind, sweet, generous woman filled with dreams she never believes can become realities. Mark is married to his work and is NOT into marriage until Vanessa comes into his life and then all the fears he had before suddenly weren't so scary. Together they both could fulfill their dreams and leave all the restrictions of duties behind for a life of normalcy (to a point). Ms. Linz wrote something beautiful.<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-24
US	47571143	R2JAN7WS3YOPBO	0373259441	106928186	Wild Fantasy (Fantasies Inc.) (Temptation, 844)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Silky with Desire!	Janelle Denison has done it again with her remarkable writing, WILD FANTASY. In this FANTASIES, INC book, Mitch Lassiter and Nicole Britton are teamed up in a fantasy version of Survivor. Mitch has had this attraction to Nicole for years and never did anything about it. This time was different, however. Nicole had a lot of insecurities that started with losing and not having her father's approval. Those two things have ruled her life. On this fantasy she wanted to just have fun. I started out reading about a vulnerable heroine and don't-give-a-damn hero; an interesting combination to say the least. From there all the beautiful happy-ever-after plots Janelle writes became apparent in this book. Throughout the contest and the fantasy I found myself touched dearly by the hero's supportiveness of the heroine. We look at life and we don't get all the support we need, especially from our loved ones but in WILD FANTASY there was enough support for everyone and some left over. Mitch is too sexy and downright dripping with sex appeal. Nicole is an intelligent woman who wants to experience life without any strings attached. At the end of the fantasy, she doesn't end up with what she wants though; no strings attached. Mitch, above everything, wants to attach some strings to her - heck - I'd bet he'd go for chains if he thought he could get away with it. I actually cried at the end, it was so touching. This is a don't-miss book. <br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R1QI0AA0NZ1RMT	0505524457	924479709	The Pleasure Master	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sexy, Sweet, & Fun!	The Pleasure Master is a man who knows his business; pleasuring women. He gives women just what they want and more. Kathy Bartlett traveled back in time with her cell phone and some very unusual toys to 1542. The people she first met are unusual and highlanders. As they advance on her she sprays mousse on their \\"love guns\\". The first on them, Ian Ross, isn't so easy to frighten as his two brothers run away in terror. Later they issue him a challenge that he can't get Kathy him his best. If it proves that they can meet their challenge before he does, the one that does becomes The Pleasure Master. Ian isn't one to back away from a challenge and seeks to win the bet. In the end through it is Kathy who wins especially with her heart. As their blood heats up and the men in Ian's family try to win the title the one thing they never counted on was love.<br />Ian is arrogant yet truthful in his arrogance. He also has a deeply hidden vulnerability and a need for reassurance. Kathy pretends to be strong when she really is scared inside. She never bets on Ian shaking her up and stealing her heart. They are two very special characters. THE PLEASURE MASTER is fun, exciting, and comical! I can't wait for Ms. Bang's next book!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R25SI7HXEXJSXO	0671042505	244943533	The Last Chance Cafe: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Suspense, Love and Kids!	Hallie O'Rourke wandered into Primrose Creek by mistake, thrown into the town by snow and a broken-down truck. With her were her two twin daughters, Kiley and Kiera. They had themselves, one suitcase with recently bought clothes, and hard evidence that could get them killed. Numerous people, people Hallie didn't even know, wanted to kill her - for what she knew and what she had. In this bunch of people she did actually know one of them. He was Joel Royer, her ex-husband and father to her children.<br />Chance Qualthrough lived in Primrose Creek all his life and just happened upon Hallie by chance. Taking them into his home, he began to break her hard exterior of guarded secrets just as she broke down his resistance and drove his loneliness away. As time passed, Chance and Hallie became closer. Chance began to become a permanent part of Kiley and Kiera's lives as well. <br />After awhile, trouble came knocking at the door and together Hallie and Chance fought and destroyed what wanted to take them away from each other. Their love overcame everything, from doubts, to secrets, to madmen who wanted to kill them.<br />I've read the previous books in this series, the ones that were historical. Throughout the book, the characters from the previous books are tied in and it is interesting to read something in contemporary times, descents of the people we've previously read about. LAST CHANCE CAFE was enthralling from the start and didn't let up even at the end. Throughout it, I always rooted for the couple and hoped their love would overcome all just as it did. Ms. Miller did not let me down. I sobbed when Hallie left her other life behind to run for cover. I smiled at the first sexual interaction between Hallie and Chance and I sobbed again at the end when they came together forever. I eagerly look forward to further books that Ms. Miller writes for she is a master with the pen - please keep it up!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	REGR3DCBCFO8C	0373710585	916660474	Shooting the Moon (Harlequin Superromance No. 1058)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Family and Love At Its Best	Harley Nelson left Portland ten years ago but when he left, he left a child behind too. Ten years later he is back for his son. Audra who he once loved died from drugs leaving behind Brandon, their son. He came back to town with determination and a past. Lauren Worthington just happened to be Audra's sister and Brandon's mother in every sense but biologically. She loved Brandon more than life itself. He might as well as have been born hers. <br />Harley made Lauren nervous, her heart beat, and her breath catch just when he was near. Too bad Lauren was born in the wrong family, at least as far as Harley was concerned but then she was known as the Ice Queen anyway. Slowly as the book progressed, so did their attraction and the heat that simmered between them. Their lives grew more and more complicated as Lauren's parents came into the picture especially since it was her father that had started it all those years ago.<br />Lauren is strong but has vulnerabilities just as Harley has a tough front but a soft center. Sometimes he reminds you of a teddy bear but others as the devil incarnate. Together they are real and lively.<br />SHOOTING THE MOON is interesting as it is sweet and special. Ms. Novak as done a fabulous job!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R3I60KEQ6S26TH	0373709730	353577202	Fugitive Mom (Harlequin Superromance No. 973)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Wrong Side Of The Law With Love!	A child who had never known any other mother but his foster mom was on the brink of being taken away. A drug addict mother who wanted what was hers. A mother who only wanted to protect the boy that might as well have been born hers and a man who puts everything on the line for loyalty and love. FUGITIVE MOM connects Charley, Kerry, Grace, and Luke together by the bonds of love, hate, and power. Charley is a little boy with a lot of hope and love inside him. Kerry is a drug addict wanting her child. Together Luke and Grace struggle to find evidence that will allow Grace to take back Charlee from his neglecting biological mother and keep him safe with her forever. Along the way passion and love find there way into the hearts of Grace and Luke changing them forever.<br />Luke is stubborn, hard, and unemotional but underneath, he is a man of emotion and vulnerability. Grace is proper and polite until someone dear to her is threatened and then she turns into a hellcat who is determined. They make for two intriguing characters and one different book. FUGITIVE MOM is unexpected and a delight to read. Ms. Erickson did an excellent job with this book!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R23KDDUYPBBMXB	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	7	7	N	N	HOTTER THAN FIRE!!	Grace Jenkins was insecure, had little experience with men, and thought herself fat among other things. Noah Harper changed all that with his loving attention to all her needs.<br />Grace was a personal assistant to Noah's grandmother, Agatha. She had worked for her for three years, starting out after college with no references. From day one, she fell in love with Noah, thinking him on of the most honest, loyal, and noble men. After Noah had a falling out with his fiancée, Grace rushed to Noah's side only to find him and his brother, Ben, drunker than anything. When Ben leaves and Noah eventually passes out, Grace sleeps next to him and dreams of them together, in every way.<br />In the bedroom Grace was Noah's sex slave that would do whatever he said it when it said it. Outside of the bedroom, she was a woman learning her full potential, bathing in her newfound sexuality, and as loyal as anything. Noah struggled throughout the book to ignore the growing feelings he had for Grace. He tried to ignore the love he felt for her. <br />Erotic romances are among my favorites and Lori Foster doesn't disappoint! From the start, she wraps you up into story and keeps you hanging on to every word to the end. I haven't read many romances with heavier women but I certainly enjoyed this one and more so enjoyed the fact that the author would write a book with a heavier woman in the book. Ms. Foster took erotica, romance, a dynamite man, fiercely loyal plump woman, and made magic. I only have one complaint with the entire book and that is that it ended. After I was done, I was satisfied with the outcome but sad that there was not anymore for me to read. TOO MUCH TEMPTATION oozes with sex appeal!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R351E2MMKLRFMZ	0804119937	1688539	The Trials of Angela	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Funny &amp; Happy!	Angela DeNero's life is a mess! She had just broken up with her fiancé who had been cheating on her. Her law practice was in need of help and her most challenging thing yet was a man, the man she was up against in her court, handsome John Franco. She believes he'd send his own grandfather to jail but instead he makes her heart to a pitter patter. John Franco is ambitious and has no wish to marry or even be involved if it took away from his work. Angela and John matches in every way possible from their ambition to their sizzling attraction to one another throughout the book. Even more complications arise for Angela that she had no expected and prove to take everything in her to get a grip on.<br />Angela started out so tough and independent but as the book progresses spots of vulnerability stand out in her making her more real to life and easier to be sympathetic with and you are, very much so. John comes across as strong, unrelenting, and drop dead gorgeous. As the book moves along though, John becomes gentle, caring, and still drop dead gorgeous. I really enjoyed the book and am looking forward to Ms. Criswell's next book about Mia. Ms. Criswell has really written a humorous, contemporary tale of challenges and love. Keep up the great work!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R1JCZ7RXQDU0I7	0804119767	277424100	Dark of the Night (Ivy Books Contemporary Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Suspense &amp; Love!	Riley O'Brien and Jake Mahoney had two things in common; they both were together when bad things happened and they both needed each other. Riley was a devoted daughter to her congressman father who was in the presidential race. She did everything in her power to support him including never having her own life. Because Jake was an investigative reporter he was always on the scent of any trail that might lead him to a story like Riley. When bad things start to happen the only person Riley could truly rely on was Jake. Through the mist of lies, betrayal, accidents, and deaths, Riley and Jake form a bond between them; love.<br />Riley on the surface seems distant and much of an ice queen but underneath the cool and calculated attitude beats the heart of a very passionate woman. Jake is arrogant and bull-headed but protective and filled with a compassion he never knew existed. They are both unique and diverse characters. Ms. Davis wrote a great romantic suspense packed with action and love!<br />Romance At Its Best...	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R2HZC0VWBI3UPW	0505524805	835349208	Night Games	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hot and New!	The year is 2502 and Brian Byrne is bigger than any presidents in the galaxy. Heck, he is bigger than anyone, in all ways! He is the MVP of the future's hottest sport; sex and orgasms. Lust is a spectator sport. Course, it is actually the only sport there is since all the others have been banned. No woman really challenges him so he decided to take a little vacation to another time, a simpler time where no one has heard of him, the sport, or the Testosterone Titans.<br />Ally O'Neill happens to be an American tourist in Ireland and author of a best-selling series on how to be the perfect wife except not she is divorced. She wants no part of Brian except maybe his brain since her editor and agent want something new, single, and sexy for her new book.<br />Ally is temptation and Brian is pure sin. Together they are fire - a wild fire. Ms. Bangs is the queen when it comes to the imagination. Who else could have thought up such a great premise for a book and then write it? NIGHT GAMES is sensual at its best!<br />Romance At Its Best...	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R3QYTNQWVNLU6U	0373168926	442555125	Biological Bond	Books	5	1	1	N	N	So sweet -- You cry!	Jamie Denton has a special talent for pulling and tugging at the heartstrings inside you. I cried a lot throughout THE BIOLOGICAL BOND. I cried for the heroine, Rebecca Martinson, who lost her baby right after birth without even knowing the sex of the child. I cried for the hero, Sam, who had to take the biggest risk of his life and contact the biological mother of his fourteen year old daughter, Melanie, because she is his last hope for a bone marrow donor to his child. After Rebecca and Sam meet there are sparks everywhere. I cried for the two of them and their inability to recognize and live up to their true feelings and desires. And when they do, it's almost too late. The scenes and obstacles that come between Melanie and Rebecca, Melanie and Sam, and the three of them together are heartbreaking. You sympathize with them and for their respective losses. You feel for them and the things they face and need to overcome. Then there is the absolute love. The love that Sam has for his daughter is stunning and beautiful but most of all, priceless. Jamie Denton did an incredible job with the heartwarming relationships between Melanie and Same. Thank you for the love you give these characters and the happy-ever-after. The love the characters shared and the happily ever after will touch every reader, and make this a keeper book.<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-17
US	47571143	R2FSJ1ZMPTS926	0373709730	353577202	Fugitive Mom (Harlequin Superromance No. 973)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A child is threatened and a mother risks everything!	A child who had never known any other mother but his foster mom was on the brink of being taken away. A drug addict mother who wanted what was hers. A mother who only wanted to protect the boy that might as well have been born hers and a man who puts everything on the line for loyalty and love. FUGITIVE MOM connects Charley, Kerry, Grace, and Luke together by the bonds of love, hate, and power. Charley is a little boy with a lot of hope and love inside him. Kerry is a drug addict wanting her child. Together Luke and Grace struggle to find evidence that will allow Grace to take back Charlee from his neglecting biological mother and keep him safe with her forever. Along the way passion and love find there way into the hearts of Grace and Luke changing them forever.<br />Luke is stubborn, hard, and unemotional but underneath, he is a man of emotion and vulnerability. Grace is proper and polite until someone dear to her is threatened and then she turns into a hellcat who is determined. They make for two intriguing characters and one different book. FUGITIVE MOM is unexpected and a delight to read. Ms. Erickson did an excellent job with this book!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-16
US	47571143	R2TLVYPRJZQDVS	0804119767	277424100	Dark of the Night (Ivy Books Contemporary Romance)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Packed With Love &amp; Supense!	Riley O'Brien and Jake Mahoney had two things in common; they both were together when bad things happened and they both needed each other. Riley was a devoted daughter to her congressman father who was in the presidential race. She did everything in her power to support him including never having her own life. Because Jake was an investigative reporter he was always on the scent of any trail that might lead him to a story like Riley. When bad things start to happen the only person Riley could truly rely on was Jake. Through the mist of lies, betrayal, accidents, and deaths, Riley and Jake form a bond between them; love.<br />Riley on the surface seems distant and much of an ice queen but underneath the cool and calculated attitude beats the heart of a very passionate woman. Jake is arrogant and bull-headed but protective and filled with a compassion he never knew existed. They are both unique and diverse characters. Ms. Davis wrote a great romantic suspense packed with action and love!<br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-16
US	47571143	RZW65YQKOQYK0	1586979809	826910165	A Breath of Heather	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Different and Intriguing!	A BREATH OF HEATHER is book two in the Sons Of Earth And Wind series. It focuses on couple Heather Carter and Quinn Archer. Heather is an elementary school teacher who loves children as much as she loves gardening. Actually, she has a deep obsession with gardening and getting her hands in the earth. Quinn is a man on edge, never trusting a woman, and someone who tries hard to deny his feelings for Heather. At the beginning of the novel, it starts out with danger and suspense and this continues throughout the story as well as the love and bond Quinn and Heather create. Heather also has a bond with Quinn's six year old daughter, Brianne. <br />Ms. Clark writes interesting secondary characters as well, drawing them in, and making you care for them. She makes you want to know their story besides Heather and Quinn's. <br />Quinn has been betrayed by secrets and Heather is full of them. Heather is being stalked and Quinn is very adept in the security department. For many reasons such as security and the feeling of a growing love, they both need each other no matter how much either denies it. <br />Quinn has his own danger and by the end of the story when it is at its climax, you have love, suspense, and danger that keeps you flipping the pages. <br />The love that Queen develops for Heather is staggering, especially since it is the last thing he wants. The trust and selflessness that IS Heather is shocking, incredible, and makes for a dramatic story. I cried throughout this book at different times because of the touching scenes between them just as I screamed in fury when the villains hurt Quinn or Heather. <br />Overall, Ms. Clark has struck gold and created a winner! I highly recommend this book as well as any others by her! ...	2002-05-06
US	47571143	REWFTT7DNN8W1	1401046460	49522203	The Night the Defeos Died: Reinvestigating the Amityville Murders	Books	5	2	13	N	N	The Truth Is Out!	THE NIGHT THE DEFEOS DIED outlines what really happened that night on November 13, 1974 at 112 Ocean Avenue in the village of Amityville. From the story leading up to the murders to the night itself, the book answers so many things that until now have been unanswered. From the cruelty, abuse, and sadistic acts that \\"Big\\" Ronnie did time and time again, to Louise DeFeo's ignoring of her husband being a psycho, to letting her children be beaten, tortured and belittled and never stopping it, to Dawn DeFeo becoming more and more deranged and losing her grip on reality, to Butch DeFeo losing it all... if he ever had it to begin with.<br />I've seen the Amityville Horrors movies and found them disgusting, to say the least, with the \\"ghosts\\", incest and much more. To know now that the movie and many books like it were all filled with some truth but many lies is a relief of sorts, but to know the real truth is not exactly comforting either. <br />To have written the truth, author Ric Osuna did something great and he wrote it well, outlining everything possible and making it understandable. He made the people real and made you hate, sympathize and love them. He did a remarkable job of taking a horrific story and making it alive and truthful in all ways.<br />Romance At Its Best -	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R158U9IUH9JU03	0515131695	835995974	Buttercup Baby (Magical Love)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Utterly Sweet!	Priceless is the first word that comes to mind to describe Karen Fox's new book BUTTERCUP BABY. <br />The Fae never have children and Ariel, the heroine, rarely wondered about it too much. She had never seen children; so she really didn't care until she was banished and later sent on a task in the mortal world. It was then she saw a child; a lovely baby, sweet, soft and smiling up at her. That was when she fell in love and decided she wanted one of her own. There was one problem, okay two. First, she needed someone to impregnate her and second, once she had found him, he wasn't so eager to do it.<br />As you can imagine, it is a funny roller coaster after that and Ariel has to rethink her tactics just a little. Then there is the pregnancy, her magic, Rand \\"the hero\\" and his family (and boy, he has a lot of family!) and some interfering friends. Magic and Mayhem for sure but something you won't want to miss.<br />It brings tears to your eyes and makes you hope for more - like the story of their child for example! This book in Jove's Magical Love line is nothing short of a keeper. Priceless, just as I said...	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R9SUMOTCSBUTH	0515132896	37978648	Heart Mate (Celta's HeartMates, Book 1)	Books	5	37	42	N	N	AWESOME Book!	Rand T'Tash looked all his life for his HeartMate, his own true love with whom he could start a family. In preparation, he created something spectacular and priceless from deep within his soul -- HeartGift. The HeartGift is something that a mate gives to his one true love as a gift, something that only the one true love can see. <br />Danith was a common, plain nobody, hidden in the world of nothingness. She couldn't see the true love before her -- the person who could heal her aching heart and complete her inside and out. <br />Rand and Danith find each other with the help of a familiar with a taste for luxuries and a magical cat called Princess. When Rand tries to give Danith the HeartGift, she rejects it and then it is stolen which is tricky since it should not have been able to have been seen to anyone else but them. <br />HEARTMATE was a marvelous, refreshing romance and Robin D. Owens should be commended. It was futuristic, magical, filled with love and set up for more books to come which is all my favorite things. I'm hoping for a sequel or more!	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R3NXWI04QIZY0Y	0553582542	376135399	Seduction In Mind	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Romance & Erotica!	Samuel Lennox was a man who loved many women - many, many women, in fact. Alexandra Ionides poses nude for portraits, ones that Sam makes sure only he owns and no one else.  He has this obsession with wanting no man to have them or see them. They meet in a party where first Alexandra snubs him and leaves. Samuel, however, is a very persistent man and always gets want he wants and this time, he wants Alexandra.<br />Susan Johnson tells a story filled with hot, steaming sex that seems to never end and their dilemma; not understanding what's happening to them, what to do about it, and how they feel about it. Neither are used to passionately wanting something so bad it becomes an obsession and an addiction. Their addiction is each other, never wanting to leave the others side and never wanting to leave the bed together.<br />Frankly, this book of erotica romance was well written. Susan Johnson knows just what to do to make you ache inside and wish it were you. The sex and love making was beautifully crafted to entice and heat your blood and it did both. The different erotic aspects of Alexandra and Samuel's sexual relationship made my insides quiver. The different \\"tools\\" Sam used to arouse Alexandra will work in making any reader silky, hot, and suffocating right with her.<br />Susan Johnson knows how to write erotica romance and how to make the readers keep turning those pages, one by one, till you get to the end. I read and read and anticipated the ending and when I got to it, I was slightly disappointed that the book was over. Overall, I was left sighing with pleasure. <br />Romance At Its Best	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R2GA555WEA6FL3	050552418X	410342325	Once upon a Dream	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Dreams Are Funny Things!	Dreams can be funny things. Sometimes they are virtual nightmares and other times they are wondrous things that are simply magical in all its magnificence. ONCE UPON A DREAM has all this and more. <br />The curse spanning generations through Robin Wise's family has left Robin agoraphobic, while Alex Simon's lack of trust towards women leaves him lonely and desolate inside. By day they quarrel constantly and by night they dream a heated passion between them, sending them to places unknown. While their love flourishes, they battle long-dead evils trying to change what was, to something better.<br />Ms. Archer's novel of dreams and discovering the joys of love and happiness is a not-to-be-missed book! I anxiously await her next book!<br />Romance At Its Best -	2002-05-06
US	47571143	RFXDL9TGBHFIL	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Mythology At Its Best!	Julian of Macedon had been trapped in a book as a love-slave to be used over and over again as a form of punishment from the Gods since one forty-nine BC. Grace, a sex therapist, was nothing short of celibate. Sure, she had sexual fantasies just like any other living and breathing woman, but she had no desire to act on them. <br />On her twenty-ninth birthday, Grace's friend, Selena gives her the book. After doing a chant using the book, Julian with his God-like body appeared for her pleasure, except Grace didn't want to use him. This absolutely astounded him. Through love, caring, kindness, and every other good human emotion, Grace opened the world back up for Julian while he pulled Grace back to from reality and into her precious dreams. Together they fought scheming Gods and Goddesses, along with lunatic stalkers to be together. <br />I waited a very long time for this book, and when I got it, I read it with great anticipation. I wasn't disappointed in the least. FANTASY LOVER was spectacular in all its glory and definitely made my small, picky \\"keeper\\" shelf. Sherrilyn Kenyon has really done it this time. She made magic, love and hot sex with this one! Way to go Sherrilyn - keep it up! I anticipate more of the books from this great author.	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R31WA5ILUB98JN	0373790309	205709390	Silk, Lace & Videotape	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hotter Than Fire!	SILK, LACE, & VIDEOTAPE is hot! From the start with Amanda Matthews meeting sexy Detective Duke Rawlins! Amanda was going to meet her boyfriend and give him a little surprise when she was the one who got the surprise. Then Duke took her in for questioning, he got a surprise tape with some secrets Amanda had been keeping hidden. <br />From there, Amanda went back to her business of designing and Duke back to his detective work but the images of the tape stuck in his mind. When he visited her to give back the tape, he propositioned her for a night of pleasure out on the town. One night turned into heat, sweat, and love in bed with each other. Trying to take down the bad guys, Duke juggled his duty with his emotions and growing love for Amanda. Amanda, on the other hand, juggled her loyalty with her love for Duke. <br />Throughout this book I was thinking how hot it was and how much steam it created. I love the emotions Ms. Rock created with the characters. I especially enjoyed the tug of emotions that played between Amanda and Duke. I wanted my very own Duke! Ms. Rock made a book of sex, love, and attraction all in one - good going!	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R1L1B1HETM818I	037379035X	292738548	Body Contact	Books	5	7	7	N	N	VERY INTENSE!	Going undercover as a \\"rich man\\" and his plaything, security agent Maddy Guthrie and ex-CIA agent Jack Connors try to find and rescue the kidnapped daughter of Sam Winston who was taken by his enemy. Their undercover work becomes more than just work as their trip progresses and Maddy is anything but Jack's plaything. From the start of the book, there are things that shock you, entice you, thrill you, and make you gasp for that much needed breath. As the heat is turned up and the danger becomes more intense, Maddy and Jack fall for each, hard. <br />BODY CONTACT was intense from the start and it didn't let up until the end. The ending was divine and the character supreme. Ms. York has written a gut-wrenching, belly flop, creative novel. I didn't put it down till the end and then I was disappointed it was finished it was so good. I can't wait until Ms. York's next book and hope it has the impressive qualities this one had.	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R2FB4U5W31AJIF	158697890X	496236398	Dark Hunger	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Interesting!	DARK HUNGER is different all-around! Never have I read a book like it. From the start when Alana was ten years old visiting in Turkey with her family, he stalked her in the night - Sadash, the vampire. He loved her in the beginning and he loved her in the end. As he stalked her in the night, Alana was drawn to him like bees and honey. Sadash was with her during the nights, after she worked at the club, he drank with her, drank from her. She slowly was sucked in until the change happened and the mystery began; the mystery of finding out what killed her mother. Her best friend and her twin soul, Valeria was always there for her when she wasn't with her lover, Miguel. <br />DARK HUNGER was darker than I expected and a delight to read. The characters were well developed and interesting. Alana was alluring just as Sadash made me quiver with anticipation as the book progressed. Ms. Calvani created a whirlwind of emotions and intrigue. Keep up the great writing! <br />Romance At Its Best ...	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R1BY9U15HI3A0J	1586979884	382055143	Tears of the Hawk	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Paranormal At Its Best!	Hawk Adams could brave anything but love for a woman. After rescuing Charity Starr from her enemies, he unknowingly puts her in mortal danger himself when in her hospital room he opens her paranormal abilities and expands them to dangerous levels. Throughout the book, Hawk's lack of trust for Charity endangers and pains her greatly, not just physically but emotionally as well. Sexual tension grows between them as they face each other and the people who want to kill Charity. Slowly but surely a bond forms and love blooms in their hearts for one another. Hawk needs Charity to heal his wounded heart, and Charity needs Hawk to love her and complete her fully.<br />Ms. Clark's characters are outstanding and unforgettable in this dramatic tale of love and peril. They are so real that they live and breathe within you. Hawk and Charity are so true to life you can almost forget it is only a book. Such a splendid job Ms. Clark!...	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R1Q2M6LZ4S5F6H	0373790376	299131825	A Wicked Seduction (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Thrilling Till The End!	A WICKED SEDUCTION by author Janelle Denison is just that - wicked but in all the good ways. Bounty hunter, Joelle Sommers or Jo, picks up a man who is wanted for grant theft auto, only one problem - the man she picks up, Dean Coulter, is innocent as it turns out. From the start, someone uses his identity to do the deed and Dean is supposed to do the time. As days and nights go by with the couple in such close capacity, the truth soon reveals itself. The truth of his innocence to Jo, the truth about their own growing attraction between each other, and the truth that they both need something more than their jobs - they need companionship and they need each other. Jo has had a hard past as former cop, now P.I. and Dean a businessman. Neither of them has had much of a social life let alone closeness of the minds and in bed. Jo is afraid to commit and let go of her past mistakes and fear of failure and Dean is afraid he'll lose Jo whom he can't live without. Together they will complete each other. <br />Besides the couple there are other interesting characters in the book that play small but intriguing parts; Jo's two brothers, Noel and Cole, and their secretary, Melodie. Jo's brothers are very overprotective bunches that just don't want to face the fact their little sister really can protect herself now. Their heart is in the right place though. Sexual tension rides between Cole and Melodie and I'm happy that they'll have their own story in Ms. Denison's July 2002 Temptation \\"Heat\\", entitled A SHAMELESS SEDUCTION.<br />As always, Ms. Denison's books are a must-read for me. They light up my days and heat up my nights. I enjoy her sultry writing and her delicious characters. Her characters are well developed and are people you can really relate to. Their people that you root for through the entire story. You cry for them, you laugh with them, and you're sad when they are. Joelle and Dean are no different than the others. Having Joelle as a bounty hunter makes it very interesting for the story, a woman with a badge and a gun. Dean, being a great guy, isn't intimated by her choice of work which makes the story even better. Ms. Denison has done it again with this one and I for one will be waiting with great anticipation for her next book. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I have and Ms. Denison earns 5 stars with this one - way to go!<br />Romance At Its Best ...	2002-05-06
US	47571143	R2URQD4H6F11S0	037379021X	957383117	Erotic Invitation (Midnight Fantasies)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Erotic In Every Way!	EROTIC INVITATION makes you go wow-eyed. Oh yeah, it's a don't-want-to-miss book with a lot of sizzle and blazing heat. <br />Mallory and Jack are both lawyers trying to get a case, so they go to the resort where their prospective client invites them to visit. Mallory is a prim and proper woman on the outside, but her silk and satin leaves a thrill on the inside. The ever working Jack is stunned when he gets an invitation to join someone in a seduction.  He is about to get an erotic lesson from the sexy Mallory.<br />From the first seduction to the second invitation to the wonder and love to confessing up and the beauty of love. What more can anyone want? Carly Phillips delivers everything we love in a romance; love, seduction, sex, and a happy-ever-after ending. The exotic invitation is still simmering inside me. Whether in a series or single titles, you don't read or see really hot, even erotic romances anymore, so this was a surprise and a fresh change of pace. I loved the new outlook and the seductiveness of the plot. I say, keep up the good work Carly Phillips!...	2002-05-06
