US	47611746	R3HB9Z88P2FKLS	066422251X	197109985	Encountering Evil, A New Edition: Live Options in Theodicy	Books	3	9	27	N	N	Dealing with the Real Issue	Theodicies sometimes address the problem of the co-existence of God and evil in what might be considered a sufficient manner, yet in the final analysis the views change God into something that is not God, or even a god.  The Christian issue of theodicy presents a special problem for Christians, which I'm not sure has ever been addressed.  The Bible, for Jew and Christian, makes clear what God is like (though not exhaustively).  But it does give enough information to analyze the issue of theodicy (or does it and we've just missed it by addressing the wrong issues?). <br /> <br />It is common that Biblical theodicy is dealt with by actually avoiding the issue.  Sure, we can say that a good and omnipotent God deals with evil by love, redemption, spiritual warefare, and many others.  But by addressing the possible cures for evil, we outright fail to address theodicy at all. <br /> <br />Theodicy is only addressed when we question why God, good and omnipotent and unable to sin, or to accept sin, and able to create virtuous being without falling into sin, chose the OPTION to create mankind in such a way that he would certainly fall and then suffer true and often torturous outrages.  The requirement of free will doesn't provide an answer.  We can initially say that without free will, there is not virtue; but God doesn't have free will in that way; so does God lack virtue?  Are the saints in heaven, which can never fall again, without freedom of will and thus without virtue? <br /> <br />Obviously, to deal with theodicy, we have to avoid the avoidance of the real issue, and rather address directly why God even allowed the fall of Man and the subsequent suffering (including what often amounts to torturous conditions even of the repentant) since He didn't have to do it this way.  That issue is the truly sole point of theodicy and its understanding, and an issue that, again, I don't believe has ever been addressed or even honestly faced (of course, maybe it has but such essaysare difficult to find). <br /> <br />This book addresses, as do others, theodicy in a pseudo fashion, making the use of the word \\"theodicy\\" in the title misleading.  It is important in what it reveals, but in the final result, theodicy has not been discussed.  Only how to get around the problem of solving the problem of theodicy has.	2005-07-17
US	47611746	R1VDIXKVPJD9M3	155605050X	476313201	Body: A Study in Pauline Theology	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A Needed Treasure	How can one approach the Bible accurately when not knowing the &quot;philosophy&quot; of its Author?  And because the Bible is about God and man, we must figure out the definition of these two before we develop the associated doctrines.  The issue of the body affects many doctrines in the Bible, including soteriology (salvation), resurrection, and covenants.<br />Robinson makes clear that whether reading OT Hebrew or NT Greek, the Bible is Hebraic in thought, not Greek or Western.  Despite the use of the Greek language, which recognized man as a dychotomy, Hebraic thought does not recognize such a view of man.  And so, as Paul uses the language of the Greeks, he still expresses the truth of the Hebrews.<br />There is much I could say about the contents of this book.  But let me say subjectively that I read the book with the intent of one reading.  But before I was finished, I knew I would immediately reread it, partly for a better understanding on some things, and more so because of the excitement.  After the second reading, I wanted to read it yet again; but I controlled myself because of two other books (equaling over 1200 pages) waiting in the wings.  But &quot;The Body&quot; will be read yet again and again.<br />I affirm the need of regeneration for the sinner (John 3; Titus 3; Romans 3)and that the unsaved are &quot;dead in trespasses and sins&quot; (Eph. 2).  But I deny the idea, propogated by the NIV, that man has a sin nature (which would make man be part nonhuman).  &quot;Sin nature&quot; completely masks the Hebraic meaning of the word &quot;flesh,&quot; and thus masks the doctrine of man, making him of two natures.  This is another major flaw in the work of the adherents of dynamic equivalence &quot;translation.&quot;<br />Robinson spoke to the issue of the sin nature and yet hadn't realized that his book properly refuted such a nature, replacing such an erronious idea with the Pauline weakness of the flesh spoken of in Romans 7.  His discussion on whether or not Jesus had a sin nature, which is controversial among theologians, could have avoided the controversy by recognizing no nature existing, as the rest of the book actually affirms.  His proper teaching of the body terms of the Greek used by Paul, and used in the OT, show that a Biblical understanding of what &quot;flesh&quot; means irradicates the possibility of a sin nature.  &quot;Flesh&quot; and &quot;mortal bodies&quot; in the NT is essentially the whole person as related to the physical world in the realm of human possibility (Max King providing that latter idea).  Innate weakness becomes an obvious reality of our being, especially as &quot;flesh&quot; is compared to the spiritual life and its demands.  &quot;Body&quot; is essentially the person as &quot;for the Lord, and the Lord for the Body.&quot;<br />I am delighted in Robinson's foundational work as it sets the bar for correcting the fallacious view of two resurrections:  a soteriological/spiritual resurrection and a biological resurrection.  Jesus is One Resurrection.  Salvation is from sin, and the physical body is not sinful; rather, as Paul affirmed, all God made, including physical bodies, is still good (literally beneficial).  The Body of our resurrection is far more glorious than a replacement body for each individual.  Such individualism as taught in biological resurrection is not taught in scripture.<br />If only, somehow, this book could be resurrected from obscurity and placed back before the eyes of so many theologians who have become propogators of a pseudo-Christian, Occidental philosophy rather than of Biblical theology and humanity.	2004-07-19
US	47611746	R2F1SCJWDSM2L5	0486256413	820079002	Complete Suites for Unaccompanied Cello and Sonatas for Viola Da Gamba (Dover Chamber Music Scores)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Just a Quick Comment	I cannot actually rate the quality of the book (so I gave 5 stars to Bach), but I wanted to comment about another's review, that he/she wished there were more dynamics and markings.  As I understand it, Bach provided virtually no dynamics, on purpose, for these pieces.  This is why various CD's by differing artists can show quite a bit of difference in playing style.  I've heard comparative playback of some of these by various celloists, and it is quite interesting.  Bach left these out purposely, so feel free to provide your own interpretation.	2004-05-14
US	47611746	RS81C7DVVC4RZ	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	1	76	142	N	N	Oh God!  When will it end?	No, not when will the end of the world come, but the end of this series.  Put succinctly, reading the Left Behind series is like reading books which intentionally throw out all rules of hermeneutics and exegesis.  This series is the epitome of eisegesis:  reading into the Bible what one wants it to say.  This series is the epitome of literalizing clear apocalyptic Scriptures.  I won't run on about the fact that they ignore every single time reference in Scripture concerning \\"the last things\\" (eschatology is not the study of end-times, but the study of last things; there is a huge difference).<br />I could never write what all needs to be said here to expose this series, but for starters, read \\"Last Days Madness.\\"  If you can't figure it out from reading this book, there is nothing else that can be said to open the eyes of the mind.<br />I find it agonizing to think of the millions and millions of people who have been deceived by Lahaye, Jenkins, Van Impe, Lindsay, Darby, Scofield, and others.<br />All this hoopla over a doctrine that didn't exist until 1830, the result of a woman speaking in tongues.  Truly, it doesn't take much to convince the weakminded when sensationalism rather than truth is the goal.	2004-04-15
US	47611746	R2CXVIQ3FDATMF	0394716787	675970766	The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	4	13	15	N	N	One Thing Missing	There is only one flaw with this book, and it goes precisely against what Poe himself stated, which as that he found it inexcusable to print a person's work other than how he/she intended it.  Mark Twain's writings are a prime example of publisher's not honoring his wishes.  Poe is another victim.  This particular volume designates where the publisher has chosen to remove text because THEY felt it unnecessarily elongated the story.<br />There is a volume that does not do this, but I cannot recall the name.  If you don't mind the publisher deciding for you what of Poe's art you need to read, this volume is fine.  For me, I always want the author's work, not the publisher's.	2004-04-07
US	47611746	R1DQEUIJMVORUI	0816028451	621468193	Mark Twain A to Z: The Essential Reference to His Life and Writings (Literary A to Z)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Get it!	I cannot add to what has been stated.  But I can say that any person who seriously reads Mark Twain, including getting his/her hands on any works available by Him, will want, no, need this volume.  Encyclopaedias are wonderful sources of detail, and to have one specifically centered upon an author and his works, life, friends &amp; acquaintances, etc. is actually even better, for all effort has been placed in detailing everything possible rather than only bits and pieces.<br />I enjoy just reading this book from the beginning.  Having been to Twain's places of residence (including his grave site), this volume simply makes such a trek more interesting and intriguing.	2004-04-07
US	47611746	R81S01B0CJWQD	0931464315	492608751	An Introduction to Biblical Hebrew Syntax	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Can't do Without	I have been a fan of Gesenius for a long time.  While I knew there was updated information to consider, I thought his text was enough.  But although his text is certainly still necessary, and necessarily covers issues that the book reviewed here does not, it is clear that one must turn to Waltke &amp; O'Connor to reach a greater level of accuracy.  Writing so long after Gesenius, they have presented new and accurate information based on the latest research, not only of Ancient Hebrew, but also based on cognate Semitic languages.<br />I have found the sections on Hebrew verbs the most enlightening and correcting, e.g., that the Pi'el stem is NOT intensive.  Such intenseness must be detected from a combination of the lexical verb meaning, the stem, and the text/co-text.  This book also presents other up-to-date information on the forming of nouns from verbs, etc.<br />As others have noted, the layout and presentation is great.  It really can't be presented any easier, I don't think.<br />One must read Gesenius, for he presents very important information across the board, including much on phonology and linguistics not covered by Waltke &amp; O'Connor.  But to stick with Gesenius will leave one in error on some points.  Waltke &amp; O'Connor, simply put, make the corrections and make studying Biblical Hebrew exciting, and even much easier to learn.	2004-01-13
US	47611746	R2ZAEG8W2HHXGT	0867164816	114142570	The Inner Room: A Journey into Lay Monasticism	Books	5	61	70	N	Y	Dynamic AND Simple, and Livable Too	This is a book that is an easy read, but not frivolous by any means.  The author uses an interesting approach of switching between autobiography (as a springboard) and teaching about lay monasticism.  This is a book you can read the day you get it, but it is also a book that will invite you to underline, make notes, and return to meditate further on what God is relating through the author.<br />The book is refreshing in that while it is not supportive of modern, truth denying, morality denying ecumenicalism, it still recognizes true faith in more than one denomination, and, in fact, it sees Biblical teaching in previous denominations as good and necessary, the author not having abandoned it all simply because he became Catholic later on.  Is he a faithful Catholic?  Yes.  Does he wear blinders?  No.<br />The author speaks of many important issues to a life of prayer, and what prayer actually is-clinging to God.  He speaks of work, lectio divina, meditation, and contemplation, and other things.  He speaks of honestly searching for God.  He is not afraid to expose churches, including the Catholic church, of overstepping their bounds, in a sense.  He states that Paul did not say, &quot;Now abides faith, hope, and the magesterium.  And the greatest of these is the magesterium.&quot;  I truly appreciated this statement, which he said represents much of Catholic thinking today, because it reflects a blind, nonthinking faith.  In my opinion, blind Christian thinking has gone from being an oxymoron to a redundan term.<br />This book is truly Catholic, faithful to solid Catholic thinking, but not culticly so.  Thus, it is a Biblical challenge to both Catholic and Protestant.  The Protestant can gain as much from this book as the Catholic can, without becoming Catholic, for the author, in his own words, states that it's not about a way (a denomination, a magesterium, a method, a creed), but about The Way (from which creeds, etc. spring).  He directs the reader to God, to Jesus Christ, not to formulas and legalism and other heartless methods.  He recognizes the need for litany, liturgy, creeds, etc., but not as ends in themselves, nor as things which by their use earn anything with God.  They are lenses to help us focus on the true God, but the true God is all we seek, to cling to him all day and all night long, no matter what we may be doing.<br />Anyone seeking a daily and continuous walk with God will find this book inspiring, challenging yet simple, encouraging, and accurate, and easy to read while yet stimulating.  It's dynamic yet simple style of writing has affected me as much as what the author expressed through this style.	2003-11-11
US	47611746	R3DU0W1N9MCFNG	0944502253	764331916	HEBREW in 10 minutes a day® (10 Minutes a Day Series)	Books	3	49	57	N	N	Always a Variance	I have been a student of Biblical Hebrew for over 3 years.  But I've also investigated modern pronunciation.  Interestingly, one will not find any consistency (I've found about half a dozen modern variations, both for consonants and for vowels, a total of about 12 pronunciation systems).  A living language by definition means constant change and dialects existing side by side.<br />Adam Lance has put for that there are some transliterations problems with this text.  That is possible; I mean, one cannot hardly find a published book today that wasn't rushed to the market so fast that it appears that some proofreading, or at least careful proofreading, was forgotten.<br />Modern Hebrew has two main pronunciation systems:  Ashkenazi and Sephardi.  Israel basically uses Sephardi, but which one?!  That's right, there is significant variation.  One reference states that, not including dipthongs, there are 5 vowel sounds, another says 6, and another 7, and even another 10.  Then there are the consonants.  Some say Cheyt and Kaf are pronounced the same, some say different.  Some say Ayin is pronounced, others say it's silent like Aleph.  Why all this variance?<br />I write this to justify the seeming descrepancies in this book.  The Sephardi tradition is essentially Middle Eastern and North African.  This system breaks down in variations among those born and raised in Israel vs. immigrants.  There is Russian, Yemenite, Romanian, and Ethiopian dialects.<br />The older native population in Israel generally pronounce Cheyt and Kaf differently.  And they pronounce Ayin.  Also, they use at least 6 vowel sounds, pronouncing Tsere as ey.  But their children do not pronounce Ayin, and sound Cheyt and Kaf the same.  Also, they only use 5 vowel sounds.<br />There is one evidence of the transition. While many pronounce Tsere the same as Seghol (as in &quot;bet&quot;), when the tsere syllable is closed by Aleph or He, it is pronounced as a long 'a' (as in &quot;they&quot;).  This may bewhat has occurred in this book, like another book I have.  Seghol may also be pronounced 'ey' if the syllable is closed by He.<br />So it is likely that this book is correct for the dialect it represents.  There is much flux at this time.  It appears, though, that the 5-vowel system is winning out, Ayin is becoming unpronounced, and no distinction is being made between Cheyt and Kaf.<br />The bottom line is that once one has used a particular book like this, if they intend to progress, they will have to immerse into the language and culture.  Living in America, the student will then likely swing to Ashkenazi pronunciation (which is spoken here conversationally), meaning that when they go to Israel, they will have difficulties.  As with learning any language, adjustment is constant, even for the native speaker<br />If you want to learn Modern Hebrew, this text is fine.  But, as with ANY book, be prepared to grow with the language, the local dialect, etc.	2003-10-12
US	47611746	R2SSRD0B3WIR49	0910542805	411167813	Hebrew: Start Speaking Today! (Language 30) (Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	For a Phrase Book, a Good Source	I give this 5 stars because, as phrase books go, and concerning their purpose, this is about as good as it gets.  This book with cassettes, explains culture, idioms, is written clearly, and most importantly, lets you hear if you are speaking correctly.  This is most important since, despite the rules given for vowel pronunciation, there is a variation given on the tapes that is not explained.  Specifically, I refer to Tsere being pronounced as in 'bet,' but in a syllable closed with Aleph or He, Tsere is pronounced as in 'they.'  This is a dialectic variation, but an important one.<br />As with reliance on any phrase books, the student is exposed to living variations in the language.  One phrase book differs from another.  One is written by an older person using traditional Modern Hebrew among the older natives of Israel, while another is written by a younger native who is speaking the more contemporary dialect that is coming into vogue.  Both are used as a majority in Israel, therefore, phrasebooks written on either side of the spectrum are legit.  On the other hand, if a phrase book were written in Ashkenazi dialect, a student of this book would be in some communication trouble if the study was for speaking in Israel.  This book appears to be more contemporary than some others, both in grammar/vocabulary, and in pronunciation.<br />The purpose of a phrase book is for visiting a country for a shorter period of time.  There is no doubt that by using this book, one will be understood.<br />A person wanting to LEARN a language, on the other hand, would not find ANY phrase book a good foundation.  A phrase book with audio tapes is more helpful to hear the language spoken, but with the actual purpose of phrase books in mind (temporary communication ability that will be lost soon after), this book is fine.<br />Though I have no intention of visiting Israel, I use this text/tape set for vocalization practice.	2003-10-12
US	47611746	R2TZTBOLX6SJL0	0486285561	257035765	Easy Hebrew Phrase Book: Over 770 Basic Phrases for Everyday Use (Dover Easy Phrase Books)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Fine for the Most Part	As with reliance on any phrase books, the student is exposed to living variations in the language.  One phrase book differs from another.  One is written by an older person using traditional Modern Hebrew among the older natives of Israel, while another is written by a younger native who is speaking the more contemporary dialect that is coming into vogue.  Both are used as a majority in Israel, therefore, phrasebooks written on either side of the spectrum are legit.  On the other hand, if a phrase book were written in Ashkenazi dialect, a student of this book would be in some communication trouble if the study was for speaking in Israel.  There may be some older grammar and words in this text, but I've also found contemporary.<br />The purpose of a phrase book is for visiting a country for a shorter period of time.  There is no doubt that by using this book, one will be understood.<br />A person wanting to LEARN a language, on the other hand, would not find ANY phrase book a good foundation.  A phrase book with audio tapes would be more helpful to hear the language spoken, but with the actual purpose of phrase books in mind (temporary communication ability that will be lost soon after), this book is fine.<br />I give it 4 stars because it works, but not 5 stars because it has no tapes.	2003-10-12
US	47611746	R878JOD91TSGH	0842332340	871070652	Armageddon: The Cosmic Battle of the Ages (Left Behind #11)	Books	1	8	22	N	N	When Shall We be Delivered?	It amazes me that two people who teach the Bible can produce this series.  I expect the more educated among us to see the obvious, and even the not so obvious.  The eschatology in this series has NO support in scripture when scripture is not eisegeted (that means when one doesn't insert their own ideas into the text).  If these men claim the view of sola scriptura, or that all we teach must be based on the Bible as the only and final authority, then we would know that they didn't use the Bible to write this series, or they were deceiving us.<br />I have to wonder how they will present the so-called millennial kingdom.  There are two main views in the dispensational camp.  One is that during this 1000-year period, people will be saved by animal sacrifices.  If they teach this, it will show that either they haven't read the Letter to the Hebrews and some other passages, or they don't believe all the Bible.  The Bible teaches that anyone who reverts back to sacrifice crucifies the Son and God afresh and is sealed off from ever being saved.  The other view is that people will be saved by works.  No one in the Old or New Testaments was ever saved by works, save those perfect works of Christ credited to believing sinners (read Romans).  And the Bible is clear that no one will ever be saved by the works of sinners; not even faith plus works.  So if they teach that works will save people in this 1000-year period (a period the Bible never talks about), then they will be teaching a false Gospel.  Then, Galatians 1:8, 9 will be true of them, these verses being the introduction to a heresy being taught about salvation by works and law.<br />As one once said, this is good reading if you enjoy stories like Buck Rogers.  But from the standpoint of people's eternal souls and where they will be for eternity, these books are spiritually dangerous in the extreme.	2003-06-05
US	47611746	R25VB6G7SW6832	0801067545	94926139	Analytical Key to the Old Testament (4 book Set)	Books	4	26	28	N	N	Great but not Fully Trustworthy	This is a great set of books for the serious Hebrew student. but not for the Bible teacher or pastor who is rusty on Hebrew.<br />There are two flaws in these books.  One is that the editors have taken so much trouble to give so much information about the structure and meaning of the Hebrew, and yet have provided often mediocre, and even often, lousy, inaccurate translation.  They have relied on the RSV, and have stated that where they felt necessary, they have given a more literal meaning.  The interesting fact is that in many cases, they have let stand those translations of words which have NO basis in the Hebrew text.  They have, in fact, gone beyond dynamic equivalence (conservative paraphrasing), and used straight paraphrashing.  Why would one go through so much trouble to get to the root of the langage, and then provide a translation that misses the mark virtually or totally.  So keep your Hebrew lexicons available, because you are going to need them.<br />The second error shows up mainly in the verb descriptions.  Just looking at the 7 major verb stems, they are clearly classified in error quite frequently.  I have found that this is usually between the Qal and Hiphil stems, and often on weak verbs which loose a consonant (e.g., hollow verbs).  The pointing of the text will usually be a clear Hiphil, but the editors have classed it as Qal.  This is quite a problem, both for understanding the emphasis of the verb stem, and at times the actual meaning of the verb.<br />I do not recommend this set except for those who are studying Hebrew seriously, using, for instance, Waltke &amp; O'Connor, Gesensius, and other authoritative works.  One without a decent knowledge of Hebrew grammar already in the brain will end up teaching inaccuracy in certain areas.	2003-05-31
US	47611746	R7DJL3F1F6ZH9	0769200710	414613836	Rush -- Bass Anthology: Authentic Bass TAB (Bass Anthology Series)	Books	3	25	29	N	Y	Don't Attempt a Public Concert Based Solely on This Book	Yep, if you can play this book, as cleanly and with Lee's tonal quality, you will be quite a bassist.  But if you take just what's written and walk on stage with it, you might be embarrassed.<br />Having gone through some of the music, there are errors.  Sure, many might not be noticed by the audience, but an error is an error.  Notes are written in the wrong octave.  For instance, at times, a sequence of notes are written in the same octave, whereas Lee is clearly playing those notes more as an arpeggio through a couple scale ranges.<br />Another example of fatal flaws can be seen in the ending measures of Tom Sawyer.  I'm not sure where half the notes came from.  Listen to the CD and vwala, you find you need to rewrite the music.  Lee is not  playing all that has been written there, and when it is what he's playing, it's out of sequence and/or not note for note.  Try to play along, as I did, and you find you're playing two completely different things.<br />I recommend this book for anyone wanting to play bass at this level.  If you can play this book, you belong in the studio; but again, don't think you are getting what Lee is really playing.  You often are not.  If it weren't for the fact that this book is a true challenge, I would give it 1 star for its inaccuracy to the real thing.	2003-05-31
US	47611746	R22M94WH59N6EE	0520228383	474714897	Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (Mark Twain Library)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Update your Library	I have been a long-time lover of Mark Twain's books.  And being analytical, I want to know why something is written the way it is; I want to know the historical details behind his expression.  So when I find that the Mark Twain Library has published Huckleberry Finn the way Mark Tain wanted it (unlike every edition that's ever been published, including the first!), I had to get it.  Using all the explanatory notes--which are NOT cumbersome--and the glossary, and other notes about the text, I came away knowing that this book was truly what it is proclaimed to be:  the best American novel ever written.<br />Having read just about all one can get their hands on by Mark Twain, this shed all new light on what Mark Twain was really saying when I read Huck Finn this time.  The humour was more obvious, the sarcasm was more justified.  The book itself opens up this door, but it helps to know what was in Mark's brain throughout his writing career.<br />Truly a must have for anyone into Mark Twain.  I have purchased all that the MTL has put forth so far, and put my other editions in the yard sale box as errant texted that no longer interest me.  I think any fan of Mark Twain will be tempted to do the same.  Why read errant editions when one can have the author's intended, authoritative publication--with the original neat pixtures, too.  I was so taken by this last reading of H. Finn that I've taken to memorizing some of the glossary terms.  They are truly classic; bring'm back.<br />I am reminded of E. A. Poe's expectation that his works be published only as originally intended.  This should not need to be requested by any author.  To modify an author's writings for any reason is a type of sacrilege.  Of course, even Poe's books are published different than he wanted.  But thankfully, there are publishers who seek to restore the only versions worthy of publication.  The Mark Twain Library is doing this, and any wanta-be authority in Mark Twain will never be such with \\"Penguins\\" and other bird-brained mass-market editions sitting on the shelf, or rather, in their hands.	2003-05-31
US	47611746	R23N4KCS9PMOGM	0883448432	205945185	The Spirituals and the Blues: An Interpretation	Books	5	37	44	N	N	Presenting a Full Gospel	The history of white Christianity reveals an otherworldliness to the Gospel of Jesus Christ that eliminates much concern for the earth and its inhabitants.  The overspiritualization of the Bible's concepts opens the door for oppression.  People think that deliverance and liberation is not for this fallen world but the next.  But the Black community would disagree, and they'd have the Bible to agree with them.<br />Cone shows wonderfully how the Black African community of the days of slavery and afterward actually had a more biblical view of the Gospel.  Yes, the Gospel involves heaven, the next life, salvation unto eternal life.  But the Gospel is clearly demonstrated, both in the Old and New Testaments, to be one that shows God's concern for the earth and its inhabitants without distinctions.  The concept of God cannot co-exist with the concept of continuing oppression, even in a fallen world.<br />Cone shows how the spirituals and the blues (secular spirituals) are a foundational binding force, much like American Sign Language is for the Deaf community.  Remove the Blues and the spirituals and you try to destroy the personhood, humanness, and the dignity of the people of the Black community who are also made in the image of God.<br />This book had quite an affect on me because I, as a white person, I held to much otherworldly interpretations of the Gospel and much else in scripture.  I recently learned that the Hebrew word for vanity and vain is never used in the book of Ecclesiastes!  The word simply means temporary and the book expresses that we are not to trust in temporary things, but we can joy in them as a gift from God.  Both the Old and New Testaments teach that the earth and all else created is good (beneficial according to Hebrew and Greek).  I have also seen that earthly liberation and dignity of all people, whether believers in God or not, is a focus of God.  Many people are going to hell, but they still deserve to be shone dignity because they are made in the image of God (see Genesis 9 on why God instituted the death penalty:  it was because it was an attack on God's image in man, and there weren't any white people yet).  Cone has effectively shown me that while not perfect, earlier Black theology is quite biblical and shows the Gospel to be what it is:  a power for transforming the earth as well as a power to take people to heaven.  It provides not only spiritual liberation but earthly liberation as well.<br />Cone presents various interpretations of the spirituals and concisely teaches where some views are right and some are wrong.  Spirituals were quite earth centered without ignoring heaven.  Jordan and sweet chariot and other terms actually referred to earthly hopes, not heavenly ones.<br />I read this book in a few days and immediately began reading it again, it was that enlightening and freeing.  With just over 130 pages, I became truly more bonded with my Black brethren in Christ and with my Black brethren who are not Christians but are made in the image of God.<br />With careful openness and alertness, one realizes that the plight of the Black community is a shared one all over the world.  People of differing color all over the world, in every nation, can have earthly hope for the same reasons that Blacks in America had earthly hope:  The Gospel can free anybody from oppression.  Every oppression in the world has the light of the hope of liberation over it, and it is very well taught in Black liberation theology as found in the spirituals.<br />One other important point, I was reminded that most people in the world, including in America, and throughout all history, have not had the opportunity or the time to be studied theologians, even of the layman's type.  Yet, the \\"ignorant\\" of scripture often have a better understanding of the Bible for contemporary life than do theologians.  I've learned once again that the less learned in the scriptures may, in fact, have much more to teach me, especially abouthow to change the world.  I mean, hey, heaven is perfect, so obviously the transforming power of the Gospel must be for an imperfect place, and we are living in it.<br />For such a short, concise book, it speaks to so many issues even outside the Black community and the spiritual and blues themselves.  It is a book written on a very specific topic that gives hope to everyone, for the spirituals and the blues are, in fact, a common issue to all men, women, and children, especially those of color.	2002-10-14
US	47611746	RP4F56Q4LMV4O	1576732304	168287793	Wisdom Hunter	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Wow!	Every pastor, elder, and deacon should read this book (if they can handle it).  And every person who feels like they are being forced into a church mold rather than a biblical mold should read this book.  And those who are living in the freedom of the true Christian life should read this book as an encouragement and for ideas to help others escape the clutches of the unbiblical packaging of God and His Church.<br />God does not fit into our neat LITTLE finite packages in which we require God to dwell.  Biblical life does not fit into our legalistic, narrow-minded, self-proclaimed conservative interpretations of scripture.  God and the Bible are not servants of our corrupt cultural norms.<br />This and more is the subject of this story.  There isn't much I can say about this book except you've just got to read it for yourself.  It is rare that I pick up a story book and read it.  But this particular one is one of two cases in which I picked it up and couldn't put it down.  I am a reader who takes my time, reads slowly and tries to absorb everything in one reading.  This 315-page text was read by me in 2 nights.  In the first half of the book, I read much about myself and the changes that are now taking place in my life.  I believe God put this book in front of me to encourage me to continue in the same direction and to give me ideas and new thought patterns. There was a freedom handed to me through the reading of this book that every believer needs to experience---BECAUSE IT'S BIBLICAL AND NECESSARY.<br />Let me just say this about the story line:  The first half of the book emphasizes the issues and consequences of the legalistic and culturalized, \\"God in a convenient package\\" church (which, by the way, is a different package for each culture and each denomination; so who's right?).  Within this first half is a thread which concerns a man's search for a granddaughter and a woman he fell in love with at first sight.  The second half of the book swaps the emphasis.  The emphasis becomes the search and then changes to the man's new life after a long unsuccessful search.  The thread is the issue of the messed-up church.  But when this thread pops up in the second half, it's beautiful.  Sometimes, it's just a single sentence, so you have to watch for it.  But they are sometimes statements that are packed with wisdom.  The suspense that builds in the second half of the book is well done.  You figure out what's going to happen, but you don't know how it will happen, and the anticipation, at least for me, was overwhelming.  It was truly exciting to read, and it has become a springboard to send me far beyond the convenient, unbiblical practices of today's culture-serving, self-glory serving church.  Let me qualify one thing:  when I say culture serving, I do not mean that the book teaches that believers should abandon culture.  Rather, the book teaches that those moral standards that we demand of other believers, that are based on our culture, but won't work in another culture, are not biblical but legalistic.  In fact, the church that comes to be front and center in this story is a multicultural church, on the one hand leaving everyone to their individual cultures, but on the other hand making sure that the cultural standards don't get read into the scripture as law.<br />Go for it!  Read it!  I dare you to let it challenge you.	2002-07-30
US	47611746	R1Y5DL651P6JG7	0060628391	902482640	Celebration of Discipline: The Path to Spiritual Growth	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Buy it.  Do it.	Foster has done an excellent job of explaining the spiritual disciplines of the Christian faith without being too deep for the layman.  This is a book that explains in some detail without overloading the reader, and gives the reader the excitement and the means of actually putting these celebrations into practice.  Now, it's not as simple as &quot;read and do.&quot;  Discipline is not easy all the time; but it's always worth it.  Knowing how to start and what to do is foundational to winning the battle over the flesh.  And Foster provides what you need.  Actually going through with it, well, that depends on how much you want to see God more intimately and have your life transformed more and more according to Rom. 8:29 and 2 Peter 1:1 - 4.  Do you want to experience what Peter calls &quot;partaking of the divine nature&quot; (partaking, not becoming divine)?  Then it takes discipline with the intent to know God more.  Read what Peter says and you'll see just how important the disciplines are to have what Peter says is available to every believer.<br />The only downside I see to this work is that the chapter on confession goes even further than Roman Catholicism in granting the power to forgive.  Only God can forgive; the Catholic church grants this right to the members of it's magesterium (which I do not see in scripture).  But Foster seems to grant the actual power to remit the sins of others to ANY Christian.  So read this chapter with an understanding that adjustments need to be made to make it more biblical.  He provides many good points, but this one goes too far.  If it was not his intent to say this, then it's just written poorly and one still needs to be careful.	2002-06-14
US	47611746	R9RIOQJNPZZRU	0553342444	791535123	Religious Signing: A Comprehensive Guide For All Faiths	Books	5	102	104	N	N	Excellent Resource	This text, like others from Elaine Costello, is comprehensive concerning religious signs.  I did not say exhaustive.  There is no such thing.  The geographic and cultural variations are too great to fully document in one text.  Contrary to another reviewer, there are not wrong signs in this book.  The reviewer mistook geographic variation with which she was not familiar for mistakes.  But Elaine Costello isn't going to offer wrong signs!  She's an expert and it's just not going to happen.  This text, along with the medical sign dictionary, should be used with the American Sign Language dictionary she published in the early 90's, which is also comprehensive.  There are many other sign books out there, and many have come to think that &quot;The Joy of Signing&quot; is about the best.  But it's far from it.  It's good, but it doesn't actually present American Sign Language; rather, it presents Signed English.  One is better off just grouping together Costello's comprehensive resources for referencing signs and then buying ASL grammar books to supplement.  If, on  the other hand, one wants to learn Signed English--which is not accepted in the Deaf community--then buy all the sign dictionaries you want and skip the grammar books.<br />Costello has set the standard for sign language dictionaries and there's really no need for others to produce their own competitive versions.  Costello should just continue to expand her current works and also produce other specialized dictionaries as she did with the religious and medical field.  The next one she should produce is a legal dictionary.  Others should consider writing books which better explain the grammar of the language of the Deaf community.  Those who use Signed English aren't speaking another language; they're speaking coded English, just like writing and morse code and fingerspelling is just coded English.  The Hearing community needs to learn to speak ASL, not coded English; and Costello, not Reikohoff, leads much morein this direction.	2002-06-14
US	47611746	R1TPW0NPX9A2P0	1586602365	118306100	The Christian's Secret of a Happy Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What Can I Say?	This book says too much for me to be able to express it here.  I have been so excited in my spirit because of what this book teaches.  Contrary to what a previous reviewer thought, this book does teach happiness through holiness, but not just holiness that comes from imitation of holy standards, but by having truth faith in the One who changes us.  It teaches holiness by the power of holy grace, by trusting the Spirit of Christ in complete faith, without works.  For one is not saved by works, and as Gal. 3 teaches, one is not perfected nor kept secure in the faith by works.  All, and I mean ALL, spiritual growth in holiness comes through what 2 Peter 1 refers to as partaking of the divine nature through knowing God more, and this knowledge is not textbook knowledge.  No, it's knowledge that comes from gazing at the glory of God in the face of Christ.  HOliness comes from gazing at Christ Jesus and &quot;falling in love&quot; with His inexpressible beauty, not by listing the rules of Christian living and trying to build good habits.  That's just psychological law and is contrary to grace.<br />When you read this book, you will much better understand what power for holiness-based happiness is available for the believer even here on earth.  This book teaches correctly that Christian mediocrity is an oxymoron.  God intends for His people to live powerfully holy lives even before getting to heaven.	2002-06-14
US	47611746	R2JO4ADUIR6Q8O	066425652X	273884455	The Hebrew Bible Today: An Introduction to Critical Issues	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Good, but Don't Leave the Scholars Unchallenged	When I first picked up this book, I expected it to be more conservative than it was. But it takes what is termed a \\"liberal\\" leaning; that is, for instance, an author will state that a particular prophetic text was written later (after the prophetic fulfillment) because they don't believe in supernatural predictions.<br />Despite this liberalness, which is why I didn't give the book 5 stars, it does raise some important issues. It is open and honest about the issues and isn't afraid to bring forth the challenge against tradition (which is why I didn't give it less than 4 stars).<br />Some of the reasoning by certain contributors is in desperate need of challenging because they make statements based on their presuppositions that don't have a basis, at least they don't provide one. Some of the authors speak certain views as \\"obvious\\" truth without providing evidence. I must state here that one should NEVER accept what a scholar, or group of scholars, says because he is a scholar. There are just as many scholars on the other side of the fence. So being a scholar does not equate with being right, just with maybe being worthy of a serious ear.<br />Overall, this is a good book for a serious student of the Bible. There are points within the book that are not refutable, and there are many more that are. But the book causes one to think, something much needed with the once important fundamentalist movement now gone fundamentally unthinking. Today, most lay people have a blind faith concerning the Bible, and fear a critical approach. In the end, their refusal to face realities only leaves them in sometimes rediculous ignorance and embarrasment, except among themselves.<br />On the other hand, this book, and any other on realistic and honest biblical criticism, should not be read or thrown in the face of those who are not strong in their faith. These issues can do more than simply open one's mind and provide a challenge; rather, for many, such issues would destroy their faithin God completely. Teaching believers in God requires more than just blatant truth; it requires shepherding, and many sheep aren't ready for this type of reality. This book will never make a good gift for someone else!<br />Thus, this book is a good text for criticism and opens one's eyes to both liberal thought and to realistic, less liberal thought. And, of course, it is not all that could be said on either side of the issues.<br />In the end, the book is very wrong about most everything, but I challenge thinking Christians to face the issues presented.	2002-02-11
US	47611746	RWK1U4Q6Z7NZ4	0198154062	414108816	Gesenius' Hebrew Grammar	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A "Must Have," and Worth All the Work Needed to Read It	Whether one is taking formal education classes or is seeking to read Biblical Hebrew on his/her own, this text will have to become part of the personal library.  There are grammatical issues in Hebrew that are never explained in 1st-year grammars, but one will need to know them, and Gesenius provides this.<br />I recommend reading this book from cover to cover at least twice:  once as a studious overview, secondly as a serious study, maybe putting notes into your Hebrew text.  But the following explanation is needed:  there are portions of information that do not have to be known too thoroughly to understand what one is reading in the Hebrew Tanach.  Much of the information is analytical more from a linguistics standpoint.  In other words, don't think you need to know everything in the book.  But embedded within the optional information is other information one will need; so all the book must be read.<br />The book can be broken down into 3 levels:<BR>1.  That which every serious student must know.  This would mean that most of the book needs to be known, with probably placing details into your Hebrew text for reference.  This text is especially needed for grammatical variations not found in basic grammars (e.g., a rare form of the infinitive used with intransitive verbs; the fem. objective affix seemingly having no antecedent, but actually having a previous phrase or clause for its antecedent, regardless of gender, Gen. 15:6); the ignoring of gender at times, etc.  Like any other language, Hebrew has grammatical structures that have \\"broken the rules.\\"<br />2.  That which is interesting to know and which may or may not really help in translation.  This would, for instance, include some of the heavier details concerning rules for vowel changes, etc.<br />3.  That which surely does not need to be known to read and understand Hebrew.  This information is for people who are grammar geeks, who need to know how things work even though not knowing this information will not hurt anyone's communication skills.  Much of this has to do with comparing Hebrew with other Semitic and European languages.  It's interesting, and in other fields, it is important; but for the Hebrew reader, this tends to be ineffectual in helping the student who is learning to read Hebrew.  Don't be discouraged by this stuff as you read the book; read it and move on.<br />Just as with English, volumes can be written on how a language works, and Gesenius provides this.  But no one needs to know the most intricate circuitry to communicate.  For instance, speakers in English say, \\"If he were to go, I would stay.\\"  The rule for having a plural verb for the singular pronoun is:  \\"3rd person singular subjunctive uses a plural verb.\\"  Most people don't know this, and yet they speak correctly.  The same is true with Hebrew:  You can get overloaded with the details, and yet without those details a student of Hebrew won't have a problem.<br />As one progresses in the book, the information becomes more practical in a sense, moving away from all the technical analysis of language and moving into what is really needed for anyone to do translation.<br />But, it is also true that while all this information should be reviewed because of its historical important in the process of understanding Hebrew, it is also necessary to know that there are significant points in this grammar that have been proven to be untrue.  Such updated information can be found in Waltke & O'Connors \\"Introduction to Biblical Hebrew Syntax,\\" another, and even more so, must have.	2002-01-16
US	47611746	R1S3BDWZ5I9S5I	3438052180	919113261	Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia (Editio Secunda Emendata) (Hebrew Edition)	Books	5	106	111	N	N	Of Course!	Most of what needs to be said about this text has already been said, so let me highlight a few things and let you buy it.<br />1.[...]<br />2.  Buying the large print is suggested for 2 reasons:  1) It's easier to read (or yes, get the small print for almost the same price, and also buy a magnifier to help your eyes if you want; but then you will have paid the price for the large print);  2) It's only a few dollars more than the harder-to-read small print.<br />3.  Buying the large print, though tough to carry to class, is no big deal.  Buy an ABS, noncritical copy of BHS for $9.95 for the classroom.  When the Hebrew class goes into the lessons for the critical apparatus, then lug the thing in for a few weeks.  When done, leave the big book home.<br />4.  Regarding the Hebrew text, it must be remembered that the vowel points and cantillation marks are, in fact, an interpretation, usually correct but occasionally can be pointed differently.<br />Example:<BR>\\"There are interesting cases where the cantillations seem not to follow the divisions you'd expect (not always for melodic or prosodic reasons), and seem to constitute a sort of simultaneous commentary on the text.  My favorite example is the phrase in Deut. 26:5, \\"'arami 'oved 'avi\\".  The simple interpretation, correct in the context, would be \\"My father was a wandering Aramean.\\"  In the passover seder service, though, the verse is<BR>read with a different parsing and meaning, for the purposes of exegesis:  \\"An Aramean [tried to] destroy my father.\\"  Interestingly, the cantillations agree with the latter, homiletical interpretation, and not the former one.\\"--M. E. Shoulson<br />5.  The consonantal text, as Gesenius states, has more corruption than we may want to admit, but also, it's not enough to question the authority of the text.  The correct consonantal text is 99% of the time discernible.  These corruptions arose before the scribes of the BC days began to be more careful.  Afterward, the preservation of thetext was so stringent that even the known corruptions were preserved up to the time of the Masoretes; and they continued to do so, but provided the corrections.<br />6.  The Masorets who pointed the text with vowel points did make relatively unimportant mistakes, sort of like anyone misspelling a word, using the right consonants but using the wrong vowel, such as \\"certin\\" for \\"cerain.\\"  Sometimes, they even ended up creating what we consider nonsense words.  BUt corrections are available through the critical apparatus or Gesenius to name a couple sources.<br />7.  The critical apparatus serves as a kind of internal commentary to the text, providing alternate readings according to other manuscripts and traditions.  In my opinion, this is far better than following the similar critical information found in an English Bible.  The Masoretes were scholars, living closer to the original text, living in religious Hebrew understanding, speakers of Hebrew.  They were the keepers of a long tradition for preserving the text.  So, I would tend to trust a Masorete a bit more than an English-speaking Hebrew Scholar, of which there are many liberals more interested in putting their personal views and issues into the text rather than trying to preserve in English what the Hebrew really says, like it or not.<br />So, the BHS text is a must for the serious Hebrew student, and for reasons of financial common sense and eye care, buy the bigger one.	2002-01-16
US	47611746	RVT4X4AKBA1GY	1570752117	472609564	The Tao Te Ching and the Christian Way: A New English Version	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An Asset to Faith if Read with Discernment	This book is quite interesting, for without being syncretistic, it compares the foundation of ancient Taoism--all things under absolute sovereign control of another--with the Bible's foundation--God has ordained all things that comes to pass.<br />The author does not claim to have actually translated the Tao Te Ching (81 poems), but has attempted to take several good translations and give a more interpretative reading from a Christian perspective without actually promoting Taoism as a legitimate religious alternative.  The effort has worked quite well, but it must be warned that Taoism and Christianity, apart from the issue of sovereignty, are drastically different religions.  Therefore, a Christian must avoid any temptation to think that Taoist literature can be merged as a source of truth with the  Bible.<br />I find that the one benefit I've truly appreciated in reading the Tao is the different way truths of sovereignty are expressed.  One must remember that the Bible is an eastern/Oriental based writing, not a western one, though western elements are sure to be found.  Reading the Tao helps to pull one's mind closer to the thought processes of the ancient Jewish mind.  Avoid becoming syncretistic, and avoid becoming an actual Taoist, and I believe many a western Christian can be benefited from reading this book.  The western Christian is the one who can most benefit from reading this text of the Tao, for the middle and far eastern thought processes are already more in line with the thought processes underlying the Bible.  On the other hand, there are many professed CHristians today who deny the Bible's teaching that God has ordained all things, so they would therefore be offended by this book, and by such a view of the Bible, as teaching that all is ordained without being fatalistic.<br />But so be it.  For the Christian who accepts the Biblical teaching of God's sovereignty, Petulla's book can be an asset if used discerningly.  I might add one thing that regardless of one's view of Taoism and sovereignty, Poem 80 in Petulla's interpretation is beautiful and the last stanza has become a goal for our family, to make the life of our home unsurpassible in the fulfillment of the lives of each of our family members.  If you read no other, try to get a copy of this particular poem as interpreted by Petulla.	2001-09-07
US	47611746	R3QZIVQK806KQB	0801077257	721529199	Parousia: The New Testament Doctrine of Our Lord's Second Coming	Books	5	48	56	N	N	Another Solid Defense of Biblical (Preterist) Eschatology	This book attempts to look at every verse in the New Testament which refers to the coming, the Second Coming, of Jesus Christ.  It actually comes up a bit short in doing so, but probably approaches at least 98% of the verses.  Russell thoroughly shows by the historical contexts, the persons written to, and the Greek that it is impossibe for the Second Coming to be other than a first-century event.  How can one refute the Greek texts, such as in 2 Tim. 4, which says &quot;who is about to judge.&quot;  Why don't the translators translate that 9-letter word which means &quot;about&quot; in the sense of &quot;immediacy,&quot; &quot;at the door&quot;?  Why do they leave it out completely?  Is it because they insist on their own views over truth?  Evidently, for Russell shows that there is no way to understand the Second Coming outside the first century when one takes the Greek as it is written, and written to the first-century believer.<br />There are two errors in Russell's book that does not contradict the final conclusion of the book.  Russell's dealings with 1 Thess. 4:17 and Rev. 20 indicate a need for more thinking.  These verses, though still misunderstood among preterists today, are coming to better light in how they fit the preterist view.<br />The 1000 years in the Greek is literally the 1000s years, referring not to a time period, but to an earlier non-time reference.  In Rev. 7 &amp; 14, the 144,000 is actually 144,000s and the the 12,000 references are 12,000s.  In other words, the period of time in Rev. 20 is not a 1000 years, but the 1000s years, the term 1000s being a qualitative rather than quantitative description of the period of reigning:  it was the years of the reign of the thousands earlier defined in chapters 7 &amp; 14 of Revelation. That reign was between 38 and 40 years.<br />Russell also fails to link 1 Thess. 4:17 with some other important references in 1 Cor 15 and 2 Cor. 5:1-4.  The activity of this verse is not something that happens as agroup, but something that happens to every believer as they die, and this verse concerns those who die after 70 AD versus verse 16 which refers to what happened in 70 AD to saints who had died up to 70 AD at the SEcond Coming of Christ.<br />Nevertheless, this book is a must read for anyone who truly takes the revealed truth of scripture seriously and puts truth above tradition, feelings, popularity, etc.  Read this and DeMar's &quot;Last Days Madness,&quot; and then try to figure out how anyone can believe &quot;left behind&quot; theology.  It's because the truth as so competently revealed in this and DeMar's book is being deliberately hidden from the people by the sensationalists, the false prophets who continue to predict, fail, and rewrite their false predictions.<br />Any person sincerely looking for biblical truth in the area of eschatology will have to face this book and DeMar's book.  To refuse to do so would be to deliberately ignore important historical and foundational hermeneutical documents that are critical to making sure we are letting the Bible interpret the Bible.  But I'm sure there are many of a certain group who would rather be &quot;left behind&quot; than face these matters openmindedly.<br />Russell's and DeMar's books are THE extra-biblical standards available today that must be faced, and they are irrefutable concerning the fact that the Second Coming is past, if one remains true to scripture.	2001-09-07
US	47611746	R63T3L6AK8SXP	0915815354	705668424	Last Days Madness: Obsession of the Modern Church	Books	5	23	29	N	Y	Hard to Beat	Here is a book that just has to be faced if one is to be honest in their belief that the Bible, and God, is of full integrity.  If one truly wants to prove with integrity that they are willing to face the truth of scripture regardless of personal feelings, intuitions, traditions, trends, etc., then this book is one of the most important books before which one must place their hermeneutical presuppositions.<br />First, I mention that there is one flaw with the book, and that is that after having so well proven what the scripture says about Christ's coming in judgement, DeMar still thinks that the Second Coming is a yet separate and future coming of Christ.  Yet his book is one of the best in proving that all the &quot;coming&quot; prophecies are fulfilled and that the coming in judgement is the same as the Second Coming.  DeMar fails to realize that he proved full preterism in his book.<br />That being said, the issue at stake concerning preterism vs. futurism is the very integrity of God and His Word.  DeMar thoroughly puts his readers before the bar to confess that either yes, the Bible is fully inerrant and therefore Christ has come in 70 AD just as the prophecies clearly stated; or no, the Bible is not fully inerrant and therefore it, and God, cannot be trusted completely; Jesus and the apostles, though led by the Spirit, were wrong.  A non-preterist must ultimately believe that Jesus, the Spirit, the apostles, and the Bible is wrong in order to continue in a non-preterist position.<br />To be a futurist, one must remove the integrity and trustworthiness of God and His Spirit, Jesus, the apostles, and the Word itself from his/her hermeneutical approach.  This is a book that I believe is so important in facing ourselves honestly concerning our view of God and His Word, that I give this book to people if they are interested.<br />No person who claims not to be afraid of having to change their mind about certain issues should be afraid of reading this book.  If youare a premillennialist, amillennialist, or dispensationalist, you must get past this book, with its solid and consistent biblical proof, in order to continue believing the myths of the &quot;left behind&quot; theology.	2001-09-06
US	47611746	R1DD1476QUPUT9	0842336443	775448504	Are We Living in the End Times?	Books	1	13	47	N	N	When were the end times?	The question is:  &quot;Are we living in the end times?<br />Jesus and the apostles clearly say no, for they told their contemporary readers that they were living in the last days of the age.  If Jesus and the apostles were wrong, then Christianity and the Bible is wrong.  But since Jesus and the apostles wrote and spoke inerrantly that they themselves and their readers were in the last days, then Lahaye and Jenkins are clearly wrong and unbiblical in saying that the end times (the last days) are any time after the time of the apostles and their contemporary readers to whom they told they were in the last days.<br />Either the Bible is right or Jenkins/ Lahaye is right.  It can't be both.  Whom will you choose?	2001-05-18
US	47611746	R20SWXOI6WNS8C	1575580802	132909418	The Anti-Prophets : The Challenge of Preterism	Books	1	19	30	N	N	What do you believe?	To accept the view of this book, one must believe that Jesus and the apostles either did not speak the Word of God, or that they spoke in error, by the Spirit of God.  Either way, it would mean that Jesus wasn't God--heresy #1.  Whatever the reason, to believe that this book is right is to reject the full inerrancy and God-spiration of Scripture. Either the Bible is right, or Spargimino is right.  If Spargimino is right, then it's time to find another religion, for then Christianity would have a book of deceit for its foundation.	2001-05-18
US	47611746	R1UBQEH3EAYUTK	084232920X	499654908	Assassins (Left Behind, Book 6)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Sensationalism	Actually, I give this book, and the series, no stars.  The best that can be said is that if you enjoy science fiction, you could read it in the same sense that you would read Buck Rodgers.<br />If you are looking for a Biblical view of Christian eschatology, this series is helpful in that it informs you of everything that the Bible doesn't say on the topic.  If you are looking for something sensational to read without it being accurate, then here is your &quot;Christian&quot; Buck Rodgers.	2001-04-27
US	47611746	R2I3GAT5PA3XBH	0842329153	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind, Book 4)	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Sensationalism	Actually, I give this book, and the series, no stars.  The best that can be said is that if you enjoy science fiction, you could read it in the same sense that you would read Buck Rodgers.<br />If you are looking for a Biblical view of Christian eschatology, this series is helpful in that it informs you of everything that the Bible doesn't say on the topic.  If you are looking for something sensational to read without it being accurate, then here is your &quot;Christian&quot; Buck Rodgers.	2001-04-27
US	47611746	R3DY9UT0ON9IBK	0842329145	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind, Book 3)	Books	1	5	10	N	N	Sensationalism	Actually, I give this book, and the series, no stars.  The best that can be said is that if you enjoy science fiction, you could read it in the same sense that you would read Buck Rodgers.<br />If you are looking for a Biblical view of Christian eschatology, this series is helpful in that it informs you of everything that the Bible doesn't say on the topic.  If you are looking for something sensational to read without it being accurate, then here is your &quot;Christian&quot; Buck Rodgers.	2001-04-27
US	47611746	R1UNE7F8U1YADD	0842329269	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind No. 5)	Books	1	1	7	N	N	Sensationalism	Actually, I give this book, and the series, no stars.  The best that can be said is that if you enjoy science fiction, you could read it in the same sense that you would read Buck Rodgers.<br />If you are looking for a Biblical view of Christian eschatology, this series is helpful in that it informs you of everything that the Bible doesn't say on the topic.  If you are looking for something sensational to read without it being accurate, then here is your &quot;Christian&quot; Buck Rodgers.	2001-04-27
US	47611746	R395F0LFAYMVAT	0842329137	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind, Book 2)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Sensationalism	Actually, I give this book, and the series, no stars.  The best that can be said is that if you enjoy science fiction, you could read it in the same sense that you would read Buck Rodgers.<br />If you are looking for a Biblical view of Christian eschatology, this series is helpful in that it informs you of everything that the Bible doesn't say on the topic.  If you are looking for something sensational to read without it being accurate, then here is your &quot;Christian&quot; Buck Rodgers.	2001-04-27
US	47611746	REQS3RRZCFMBZ	0827602529	185262352	Tanakh: The Holy Scriptures - The New JPS Translation According to the Traditional Hebrew Text	Books	1	39	79	N	N	Another Modern Translation Ignoring How God Said It	This book is simply another attempt to make the Bible easier to read at the expense of making it less accurate to what God said in the Hebrew.  It is a common approach in translation today to attempt to make the Bible read more like an easy-to-read newspaper.  As a result, all translations that have been formed on the easier-to-read idea have literally added what isn't in the Hebrew and taken away what is in the Hebrew---what God actually said, the way He said it, and the way He wanted it said.<br />The Bible is not a novel, or a textbook, or something you must read once a year.  It was never meant to be something we can fly through with little thought.  The premise that the Bible was originally written in a way that the ancients understood easily is simply not true.  It may have been their language, but Biblical truths are spiritual truths that cannot be discerned by a quick read.  But this edition of the Tanach, as with most translations of the Bible, has made the Bible less understandable by making it possible to read it too fast.  I have no doubt that anyone who knows Hebrew will agree that the translation is not very close to the Hebrew.  They may not mind that it doesn't match what God says, but then it is not our right to decide if God's words should be changed or replaced.<br />The Bible is for meditation day and night (see Psalm 1).  The Bible is for slow and deliberate thought, not for the typical American get-it-over-with approach.  God teaches from His Word if we wait with patience.  Get as literal a translation as you can find, or learn the Hebrew for yourself (which is always better than even the best translation), but make sure what you get is as close as possible to how God said it.  This book is not the one for accurately translating the Hebrew, as Hebrew students are aware.<br />If you want a JPS translation, then purchase the 1917 edition.<br />Bottom Line:  The Hebrew used may have been the traditional Hebrew text, but that means nothing if it is not followed.not followed.	2001-03-30
US	47611746	R3S3QFVSJZTZEB	0883681536	148128002	Experiencing God Through Prayer	Books	4	25	25	N	N	A Good Definition of &quot;Inner Silence&quot;	Although this book does not speak in the expicit terms of &quot;inner silence&quot; and &quot;monastic silence,&quot; it does speak of these things implicitly (and so at times not as straightforward as she could have), and she does a good job.  The author speaks concerning a way of life and prayer which has been lost for the most part in conservative Protestant circles.  To explain, and using the terms I've introduced, she speaks of inner silence.  This does not mean what is meant by the meditations of eastern religions.  Rather, this term refers to an inner lack of struggle---a lack of struggle with numerous voices and desires, because of the absence of the multiplicity of voices calling for one's attention.  &quot;Monastic silence&quot; better explains this, for monastic has the form &quot;mono&quot; meaning one.  The inner silence to which Guyon speaks is that silence of peace which comes when one is only hearing ONE voice, and that voice is God's.<br />The one who has come to experience what Guyon is speaking of has learned to allow only one voice (God's), and thus there is no competition or multiplicity of voices calling for one's servanthood.  In addition, she speaks implicitly of not regretting such a dedication to God.  That is to say, one may choose to hear and enjoy only God, but they may wish that they could have some other voices and enjoyments, thus they regret to some extent that God is all they have chosen.  Guyon states that when we choose God and God alone as our desire and the voice to whom we listen, and we do not regret what we have abandoned, then we have inner silence, peace within ourselves.  Again, this is what others call monastic silence, the silence/lack of struggle with the decision of choosing only one.<br />Luke 11:34 speaks of having a single (literally &quot;unified&quot;) eye for God, and Philippians 3:7 - 15 speaks of this singleness of desire for Christ Jesus as God as the attitude and condition of a mature believer in Christ Jesus.  Guyon speaks to this issue and does a fine job, though if she had explained certain things a little more, I would have rated the book with 5 stars.<br />This is an excellent book for learning how to seek the Biblical communion with God that is available to His people, without being superstitious in approach or speaking of weird things.  Guyon speaks of going beyond &quot;experiences&quot; (spiritual signs, bells and whistles, ooh's and ah's, if you will) to rather reach the point of simple, intimate fellowship and satisfaction with God (satifaction with the Mono, the One).  She speaks of simple abandonment of what perishes in preferment of the One who never perishes.  She speaks of focusing on and enjoying the Giver rather than the gifts.	2001-03-26
US	47611746	R2U3URP4H4YO9F	0887290825	884151871	Langenscheidt's Pocket Hebrew Dictionary (English and Hebrew Edition)	Books	4	44	47	N	N	Great Pocket Resource	This dictionary provides every lexiconical entry for the Hebrew Tanach.  Each entry provides the various translations foudn in the Tanach for the entry.  It also provides under each basic entry the meaning for the word as used in other forms, such as verb stems, nouns, participles, infinitives, adjectives, etc.  Every form of the word that occurs in the Tanach is found in this resource.  The only &quot;basic&quot; source I find more useful at times concerning the meanings of the words is the lexicon in the Strong' Concordance, which provides the basic meaning and nuances behind the Hebrew translation.  An advantage of this pocket dictionary, on the other hand, is that it provides what Strong does not:  the meanings as directly associated to particular grammatical forms of the word.  For instance, Strong would state that the root meaning of &quot;deep&quot; as in &quot;deep water&quot; is &quot;agitation.&quot;  The root meaning for the word &quot;sea&quot; is &quot;roar.&quot;    This pocket dictionary does not speak concerning this.  If one follows these words through the Old Testament, one finds that their &quot;hidden&quot; lexiconical meaning (the meaning that doesn't show up in translation) is very foundational to its contextual use.  But Strong provides no meanings as associated with various grammatical uses of the words.  For instance, the pocket dictionary under review would state that the word for &quot;visit&quot; means to have rule or charge over something in the Hifil stem.  Strong gives no such associational comparisons of meaning as related to changes in grammatical use.  I believe both resources, as basic resources, must be had by the Hebrew student.  By having both, one gets what one could never have by only having one of these resources.  This dictionary also provides meanings that books of Hebrew word lists do not provide.	2001-03-15
US	47611746	R2JM3GEQ7B0QAJ	0785242473	250602301	Imitation Of Christ Nelson's Royal Classics	Books	5	7	16	N	N	A Classic that Puts Christ Jesus Where He Belongs	This is a book which remains in my list of top five favorites.  As one may be able to correctly imply from my bio, I have little agreement with any official doctrine of the Catholic church.  Yet here is another one of those few books produced by a Catholic from days gone by which transcends the differences and focuses on what really counts.  Jesus and Paul spoke of the centrality of Christ as our single focus in such passages as Luke 11:34; Philippians 3:7 - 15; and Romans 8:28, 29.  A'Kempis pushes aside virtually all the differences and brings us back to that single focus-the Lord Jesus Christ.  One would almost think that A'Kempis used the above-stated verses as his foundation for writing.<br />This volume does have an occasional expression of thought which definitely betrays a strictly Catholic idea, usually in the last book of the volume.  In this section, the inferences toward the belief of transubstantiation are there, but the statements are so general that a Protestant can easily read the statements from a non-transubstantiation view, and read them rather from the standpoint of the spiritual eating of Christ (John 6) rather than the physical eating as is found in the doctrine of transubstantiation.<br />One of the beauties of this book is its contemplative aspect.  It is not for the lazy thinker or non-thinker; but it doesn't require a great education either.  It just requires a pursuit of Christ as our all in all (again, see Philippians 3).  One of the things which the Protestant church rejected of Catholicism is the contemplative mind and life.  I agree that the superstitious aspect sometimes found in the contemplative life and prayer is to be rejected, with its extra-biblical revelations and the like.  But the Scriptures are clear that meditation/ rumination/ contemplation is a necessary part of every true believer's life, and that contemplation is founded in a search for God, in Christ Jesus, as revealed to us by God in the Bible.  Contemplation and meditation is not a Protestant vs. Catholic issue.  It is a biblical mandate for all who profess faith in Jesus Christ.<br />A'Kempis has given us such a focus that transcends the differences and says, &quot;I count the all things as dung that I may gain Christ and be found in Him.&quot;	2001-02-16
US	47611746	R233EPIMS0A0WU	0882707930	137503942	Practice Of The Presence Of God (Updated) (Pure Gold Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Making Life's Focus as Simple as God Designed It	This book is too good and too short not to be read by every Christian.  The author has stated simply what the Bible calls all believers to:  Living every moment, every circumstance, every chore, every delight, every trial of life for the love and worship of God.  We don't need to make things so complicated in trying to balance these activities with those activities with other activities.  Yes, directed meditative time with God in His Word is necessary; but the author makes clear the teaching of the Bible when he says:<br />&quot;I am doing now what I will do for all eternity.&quot;<br />Brother Lawrence is simply saying:  &quot;Make life simple--do everything for the love and worship of God, and you will be living the life of eternity even here on earth.&quot;  Brother Lawrence explains how he lived such a live and gives principles on how we may do the same.  And it works for one simple reason:  It's biblical--it's the same method God has given us in His Word.	2001-02-16
US	47611746	R1SNIR0KMR08ZG	0800785991	137503942	The Practice of the Presence of God	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Making Life's Focus as Simple as God Designed It	This book is too good and too short not to be read by every Christian.  The author has stated simply what the Bible calls all believers to:  Living every moment, every circumstance, every chore, every delight, every trial of life for the love and worship of God.  We don't need to make things so complicated in trying to balance these activities with those activities with other activities.  Yes, directed meditative time with God in His Word is necessary; but the author makes clear the teaching of the Bible when he says:<br />&quot;I am doing now what I will do for all eternity.&quot;<br />Brother Lawrence is simply saying:  &quot;Make life simple--do everything for the love and worship of God, and you will be living the life of eternity even here on earth.&quot;  Brother Lawrence explains how he lived such a live and gives principles on how we may do the same.  And it works for one simple reason:  It's biblical--it's the same method God has given us in His Word.	2001-02-16
US	47611746	RTG44FHEIC0RG	0941037355	740368946	A Simplified Guide to BHS: Critical Apparatus, Masora, Accents, Unusual Letters & Other Markings (English, Hebrew, Arabic and Latin Edition)	Books	1	36	48	N	Y	Too Much $$ for Getting So Little	This text has good and bad points.  It's translation of terms in the back, the background information on text pointing, and the briefer listing and explanation of the MS accent system is probably less overwhelming than other such references.  But in the end, one would purchase this overpriced book with the purpose of learning the uses of the accents in Hebrew pointed text.  The book comes up way short.<br />After giving some specific information on certain common disjunctive accents, it then shows the rest of the disjunctive accents with little or no explanation as to what they are doing in the text.  The conjunctive accents are listed separately with no explanation whatsoever as to how they work.  And two of the most common text pointings found in the Hebrew Bible are missing!  I've never found memorizing symbols without explanations to be of any help in anything.<br />One should just pay a little more money and buy a reference which gives all the accents and explains their uses.  As it is, my copy of this book has told me virtually nothing that I hadn't already learned in the two Hebrew grammars/ workbooks I've used to learn Hebrew.<br />Invest your money elsewhere than in this book.	2001-02-15
US	47611746	R3VDBISGOA30K0	0802805981	453039653	Biblical Hebrew: An Introductory Grammar	Books	5	101	104	N	Y	A Great Systematic Presentation	This book by Kelley is extremely detailed without being overwhelming. Learning any language can be overwhelming, but if one takes this book lesson by lesson, they will do well. I find that this makes a great companion text to &quot;Biblical Hebrew&quot; by Kittel et al (see my review on this book for more information).<BR>Kelley provides what Kittel does not, and vice versa. Kittel presents great lessons without getting into a mass of details that aren't yet necessary, and as a workbook, it moves you along confidently and quickly. But with learning anything, many like to know, and will definitely need to know fairly early on, not simply how something is done, but WHY, and what nuances are caused by the details. Kelley does just that by explaining point by point why things work the way they do in Hebrew. For example, this would include how vowel pointing changes and why. Kittel deals with vowel pointing, of course, and how it works grammatically, but leaves one without answers in many cases as to the systematic rules of how vowel pointing works. Also, Kittel's book does a nice job in presenting participles, but doesn't really give enough detail to help the beginner with the related nuances of participial grammar that even the beginner needs to know (e.g., what's the difference in translation between participles as adjective, as verbs, and as nouns?). <BR>Kelley explains in detail what Kittel presents generally. He gives all the answers that Kittel does not. Kittel gives a more workable workbook than does Kelley. With Kittel, you feel like you're moving along faster and so it is more encouraging (I personally went through the first half of Kittel's book thoroughly in only 2 1/2 months, along with working on a number of chapters later in the book at the same time; I could never do that with Kelley's book). <br />Because of its great detail, it may have a somewhat discouraging effect by not allowing the student to move very quickly.<BR>What I recommend for any truly serious student of Hebrew is to invest in both Kittel's and Kelley's books. Use Kittel's book as the main course, and use Kelley's as a main supplement (you will definitely need something to go with Kittel's book). After you've gotten about half way through Kittel's book, it would then be good to look at Kelley's book systematically and find the reasons for why Hebrew is the way it is. Ultimately, Kelley's book will have to become your main text if you really plan to learn Hebrew effectively.  Kelley by far gives many more exercises to hone your skills.  Also, I use Kelley's book sort of like an encyclopedia to turn to for more information as I study a chapter in Kittel's workbook.<br />I can't recommend this combination of books enough, for it truly gives many positive facets to studying Hebrew. For under $100, the serious student can be set for a long time with these two books. And one can still keep it under a hundred dollars by investing in what I believe to be the best student's vocabulary book out there for the price, &quot;A Student's Vocabulary for Biblical Hebrew and Aramaic,&quot; by Larry Mitchel, which covers all Hebrew words used 10 times or more in the OT, and all Aramaic words if you should choose to delve into that.<BR>Kelley's book, considering its detail, is quite sufficiently systematic and also simple in its explanations. If you really want to learn, this book will give you what you need without being cumbersome.	2001-02-09
US	47611746	R2A9W20C55W3M8	0310369800	171729637	Reader's Hebrew-English Lexicon of the Old Testament, A	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Very Good Hebrew "Cheater" Resource	This volume is definitely a good expenditure for those who desire to read the Bible in Hebrew but have not yet been able to read the Tanach completely for themselves.  All Hebrew students are expected to memorize all words used 50 times or more in the Old Testament (those who are not willing to do rote memorization shouldn't bother trying to learn any language).  These words are provided with their meanings in an appendix.  One can begin their memorization right away.<br />All other words (those occuring less than 50 times) are given, printed every time they occur, chapter by chapter, verse by verse, in the order of the Old Testament books, chapters, and verses (sort of like reading the Bible vertically rather than horizontally).  The verbs are given in their particular stem form for each occurrence.  In addition, the number of occurrences of the words for the particular book and for the entire OT are given; for verbs, the number occurrences of the particular stem currently found in a verse are given for the whole OT.<br />What I think is especially good about this volume is that it forces the student to learn much of the Hebrew vocabulary; and, even where words are given each time they occur (for those used under 50 times in the OT), the student is required to have studied enough grammar to recognize the verb stem forms.  In other words, the book gives the verb spelling for the stem form used but does not tell the student the name of the stem; the student needs to have learned how to recognize the various verb stems.  One might think that such a format is a negative point.  But if one is not going to learn Hebrew correctly, one would not have any reason to own a book that is only for true Hebrew students.<br />I recommend this book over its 4-volume sister \\"The Analytical Key. . . .,\\" because the latter volumes give away all the answers for every word; they require virtually no study of Hebrew at all.  But the \\"Reader's\\" version forces the student to learn; thus eliminating lazy language study.  So the \\"Reader's\\" version is for you if you are serious about learning Hebrew thoroughly without running to an answer key all the time.<br />But be aware, there are errors.	2001-02-09
US	47611746	R31I9YH211487Z	0060634642	679892883	God's Fool: The Life of Francis of Assisi (Perennial library)	Books	2	9	59	N	Y	A Very Good Book for Bringing Francis Down to Size	This book is truly a mixed blessing.  Let me first state that the principle of following Christ in the Gospel to the fullest extent is it's greatest, and almost only, asset.  The other good thing about the book is that it does not hide who Francis was with his faults, before and after his conversion. Francis was a highly immoral youth and the leader in Assisi of immoral youth.  Many other biographers try to hide this fact.  Green must be commended for being truthful in this.  After his conversion, he still had glaring faults which Green rightly exposes.  What is truly disturbing about the book is the blind acceptance on the part of Francis of immoral ministers and his respect and submission to them.  What is more disturbing is the fact that Francis considered the Word of God as virtually unneeded for his followers-and even dangerous to his cause.  His own cause must then have been not God's cause, for God's cause is only found in the Bible and Francis wanted almost nothing to do with the Bible.  He based his rule of order on randomly opening the Bible three times and pointing to verses (clearly a superstitious, and forbidden, approach to scripture).  His knowledge of the Bible did not go much beyond these three passages.  He forbid his followers to have a Bible or even a Psalter (which contains the inspired praises of God) with which to sing because he felt that even too much knowledge of the Bible was dangerous to spirituality.  Francis nor Green evidently ever read Romans 10:17.  In fact, Green makes it clear that Francis knew virtually nothing of what the Bible says.  In essence, Francis forbid his followers to learn from the only book that could guide them in God's will.  Although Green sought to present a good, honest presentation of Francis for the purpose of promoting the Franciscan way of life, he actually gives every reason not to follow the Franciscan way.  The Franciscan way, according to Francis, and as accurately reported by Green, is to know as littleof the Bible as possible and to submit to known immoral ministers.  What is most dangerous about the positive approach to this book is it's promotion of Francis' salvation by earning it and purchasing it (which the Bible clearly denies as possible), and it's promotion of Francis' salvation by means other than the only one given by God--free mercy fully purchased by Christ alone.  Francis' failure to know the Gospel as found in the Bible and thus teach another gospel is strong evidence to his ignorance of God and His truth as a whole.  This book is an important text in learning the truth about Francis of Assisi.  One must read it with great discernment, for in accurately portraying the philosophy of Francis, it also accurately exposed Francis' complete denial of what the Bible teaches about salvation and many other important doctrines.  Green shows that Francis denied the use of the Bible, probably to the eternal detriment of his and his followers' souls.  Mr. Green has accomplished in this book what he did not intend:  an exposure of the Franciscan way as unbiblical and as a way that denies the Bible of the very God they claimed to worship and follow.  Mr. Green shows much of the reason why Martin Luther nailed his 95 theses to the Wittenburg door.  Mr. Green, thank you for being open enough to reveal the truth, even the truth that exposes Francis of Assisi as someone other than you see him to be.  This book gets 5 stars for exposing the truth of Francis of Assisi, and 1 star for being a book that can be trusted to lead people into the truth of the Bible.	2001-02-07
US	47611746	R2HG2GY0MRYUYF	0310454611	472787852	Student's Vocabulary for Biblical Hebrew and Aramaic, A	Books	5	62	69	N	N	Well Organized	The interesting thing about learning Biblical Hebrew is that there is a definite limit to how much vocabulary you need to learn (about 8700 words, and many are cognates of each other).  This booklet arranges all words together by frequency, without having to switch between a verb and a noun section.  This book gives the frequencies of each word so that you can basically calculate how much of the Hebrew Bible you will be able to read as you learn.  Its one downfall is that it doesn't give accurate frequencies on words over 5000 occurrences--it just says 5000.  Well, that's very inadequate considering that Vav/\\"V\\" (and) occurs 50,303 times, not only 5,000.  For the definite article Heh (H), it states 5000, but the actual number is 30,393.  It would not have been difficult to find these numbers and publish them in the book.    There are 474,365 morphemic occurrences in the Hebrew OT.  By only learning to recognize the initial Vav, one has reduced the occurrences to learn to 424,062.  By learning one letter/word out of 8700, one can recognize over 10% of the morphemic occurrences in the OT (this book indicates that one has learn 1.6%).  Learn the first 25 words that are most frequent, and one has learned to recognize almost 43% (over 200,000) of all morphemic occurrences (assuming one learns a little about how these words change appearance in actual use).  This text does not give completely accurate frequencies on the first 25 words.  This shouldn't stop one from buying it.  Just know that having learned the first 25, you're almost 43% there; and if you know all the attached and unattached pronouns, add over another 10% to your recognition bank.      I find it very easy to carry around, and I've added my notes to it.  This has been my primary quick-learning guide.	2001-01-15
US	47611746	R2FPW4BTQ7BT1M	0300043945	820077370	Biblical Hebrew: A Text and Workbook (Yale Language Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Honestly Challenging, Not for the Lazy	Concerning another's review, I must disagree on some things.  Learning from the most common grammatical constructions to the least makes sense.  And yes, the Vav consecutive/conversive rule does seem a bit odd place to start, if one knows Modern Hebrew.  But this book is about Biblical Hebrew, and the vav consecutive is about the most common grammatical feature with verbs in the Bible.  Also, the issue of pronunciation is no big deal.  Unless one is going to be a chanter, it doesn't matter.  No one has determined which pronunciation is correct for Biblical Hebrew, and there are MANY variations of Modern Hebrew just in Israel alone.  My only complaint would be that the editors should have used the easiest vowel system available since pronunciation is not an issue.  Many courses, by Jewish teachers and professors, use the simpler Modern Hebrew pronunciation.<br />This book has been an excellent resource for learning Biblical Hebrew in my experience. One commentator said you need to learn the alefbet first. Well, of course you do, and it is in the front of the book. The book instructs from the most common grammar and vocabulary to the less common. There are times when you feel like a question has been raised by the lesson and you wonder if it will be answered. But I have found that it has been later on, when it needs to be. And if you are willing to reference through the book, looking at points in later chapters or study the glossary, you'll find the answers sooner than you really need to know them. Important information is charted and can be referenced ANYTIME for rote memorization. Rare is the person who will find a good Hebrew book easy. That's because Hebrew is not for the timid, though it's far from the hardest language to read. Some may find this book difficult to learn from, but the problem is not the book. The problem is the lack of seriousness of the student to learn Hebrew correctly. Any person who thinks they can just memorize words and know a language doesn't understand language. This book is excellent for the serious learner. It is laid out well. After the first lesson, you will have learned 4% of the Hebrew Bible!, with only learning 3 words and one particle. Verb conjugations in Hebrew can be very discouraging; but they can be in any language since they are the hardest part of any language to learn. If one is willing to slow down on the verb sections and truly study the patterns, they will get it. If anyone doesn't want to learn verb conjugations, don't try to learn any language. The book handles the verb issue excellently---the second best I've seen. Develop a work ethic, be patient and determined, and you'll learn it.	2001-01-15
US	47611746	RCJF57TSK1LXL	0875083749	824338094	Blood of the Cross	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The Blood of Jesus is the Only Way of Spiritual Blessing	In a day when the blood of Jesus is being removed from the very translation of the Bible itself, when the mention of the blood of Jesus is considered offensive even in the churches, this book and Murray's other, &quot;The Power of the Blood of Jesus,&quot; are God-sends for those who are willing to accept the ways of God without cringing. Though the blood of Jesus is not in any way magical, it is nonetheless crucial and foundational to receiving ANY benefit whatsoever from God. If one could list all the spiritual blessings in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus (Eph. 1:3), and then search out the sole reason why these benefits are available to born-again Christians, and only to born-again Christians, they would find that every single one without exception is only available because of the shed blood of Christ. Murray clearly shows this truth in his books and mentions over a hundred benefits (between the 2 books) that are only available by Jesus Christ's shed blood. If you want to get back to true biblical Christianity, you must get back to the centrality of the precious blood of Jesus. Otherwise, you have no source of heavenly, spiritual, benefits from God, inlcuding salvation itself. Hebrews says, &quot;Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sin.&quot; Murray shows clearly that within that statement is included ALL the resulting benefits of forgiveness, as well.	2000-12-06
US	47611746	R25SWFJVUJ4B9E	0883682346	49581557	The Power of the Blood of Jesus	Books	5	54	57	N	N	The Centrality of the Blood of Jesus	In a day when the blood of Jesus is being removed from the very translation of the Bible itself, when the mention of the blood of Jesus is considered offensive even in the churches, this book and Murray's other, &quot;The Blood of the Cross,&quot; are God-sends for those who are willing to accept the ways of God without cringing.  Though the blood of Jesus is not in any way magical, it is nonetheless crucial and foundational to receiving ANY benefit whatsoever from God.  If one could list all the spiritual blessings in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus (Eph. 1:3), and then search out the sole reason why these benefits are available to born-again Christians, and only to born-again Christians, they would find that every single one without exception is only available because of the shed blood of Christ.  Murray clearly shows this truth in his books and mentions over a hundred benefits (between the 2 books) that are only available by Jesus Christ's shed blood.  If you want to get back to true biblical Christianity, you must get back to the centrality of the precious blood of Jesus.  Otherwise, you have no source of heavenly, spiritual, benefits from God, inlcuding salvation itself.  Hebrews says, &quot;Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sin.&quot;  Murray shows clearly that within that statement is included ALL the resulting benefits of forgiveness, as well.	2000-11-21
US	47611746	R3KLFH75AWD75D	0932666426	294677147	A Basic Course in American Sign Language	Books	5	32	35	N	N	A Great Book, Especially if You're On Your Own	Here is a sign language book which provides so much information on ASL grammar in such an easy-to-learn format.  With a book like this on the market, there is no reason for a hearing person to think that learning ASL grammar is too difficult.  The rules are laid out and explained simply, with many exercises.  And, of course, there are signs to be learned.  Want to  get started speaking the language of the Deaf community instead of just speaking English a different way?  Then buy this book and get started.	2000-11-15
US	47611746	RISD4TE93SBVJ	0882435205	300589682	The Joy of Signing (Second Edition)	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Good for a Start, but Need to Move On	The Joy of Signing is a fine book for starting to learn the signs used in the Deaf community.  But, one must realize that there are a number of signs presented that are not used in ASL (the language of the Deaf community).  If you are looking to learn Signed English, then you'll do fine; but if you want to learn ASL, you may just want to go to another book since this one is based on English, not ASL.  If you're interested in ASL, consider &quot;A Basic Course in American Sign Language&quot; (O'Rourke).  If you just want to learn some signs to get by, &quot;The Joy of Signing&quot; will be okay.	2000-11-15
US	47611746	R344RB4PG5MIIB	0062700529	341509637	American Sign Language: A Comprehensive Dictionary	Books	1	17	26	N	N	Don't Bother	This book is very inaccurate and poorly put together. I'm not sure they proofread the thing.   Better to consider Elaine Costello's &quot;American Sign Language Dictionary.&quot;	2000-11-15
US	47611746	R162GZSYSVMBWS	0452278341	945662165	The Lessons of Saint Francis: How to Bring Simplicity and Spirituality into Your Daily Life	Books	4	60	82	N	N	A Catholic Who Helped Break the Mold of Catholicism	What impresses me about this book is that while I am of the Reformation faith, and thus certainly in little agreement with anything the Roman Catholic church has to offer or teach, this book has much to offer for true Protestant believers, as well.  As you read, put aside the few unprovable episodes of superstitious events and look at Francis where he really counts---as he compares with Christ.  Francis is one of the few people to be written about who truly lived Christlike to a truly full and biblical extent (I would also include Amy Carmichael).  Francis teaches us that it is not necessary to be a beggar, or homeless, or to walk in rags to live Christlike.  Rather, one must completely stop serving self, and there is most likely no Christian reading this that has yet to take Luke 9:23 to the biblical level that Jesus intended and Francis accomplished.  I also especially like this book because I am a very analytical, heavy thinking theologian; and often is the time that I need to take all the theology and channel it to obedience where it was intended by God to be:  in selfless, Christlike living.  And this book is a major assistance for me to do this.  Regardless of denominational differences, Francis of Assisi is a biblical challenge to every person who claims to be a follower of Christ.	2000-10-31
US	47611746	R3OBGSP295M6KV	0310280516	816797605	All the Doctrines of the Bible	Books	3	14	19	N	N	A Good Starter Book, But Be Careful	Here is a book that is excellent for one wanting to start studying more in depth the MANY doctrines of the Bible.  We often forget how many major doctrines there are.  I personally have found approximately 50 doctrines in the Bible related to salvation alone.  Mr. Lockyer does a great job and will get you started, expanding your mind beyond the &quot;milk&quot; theology in which so many Christians remain.  But be careful.  He bought into the very young doctrines of premillennialism and dispensationalism, so you will find his doctrinal explanations as related to eschatology to be &quot;newspaper&quot; theology rather than biblical theology.	2000-10-25
US	47611746	RLEJFJX2FBE	0310280915	993829691	All the Messianic Prophecies of the Bible	Books	4	24	36	N	Y	Focused on Jesus Christ:  The Theme of the Bible	Jesus Christ is the only Redeemer of sinful man.  Jesus Christ is the only full revelation of God, as revealed in the Bible.  History is utterly dependent on Jesus Christ, who He is and what He is doing.  So this book will take you a long way in focusing your interpretation of scripture on what, or Who, scripture is about.  Here is a book that is excellent for one wanting to start studying more in depth the MANY attributes and works of Jesus Christ and how all of history revolves around His sovereignty.  Mr. Lockyer does a great job and will get you started, expanding your mind beyond the &quot;milk&quot; theology in which so many Christians remain.  But be careful.  He bought into the very young doctrines of premillennialism and dispensationalism, so you will find his doctrinal explanations as related to the return of Jesus Christ to be &quot;newspaper&quot; theology rather than biblical theology.	2000-10-25
US	47611746	RZ7ORXNWU8XDW	0842332529	932439164	New Living Translation : Holy Bible: Self-Help Edition	Books	1	5	15	N	N	A Scripture-formatted Commentary:  Not God's Word	The problem with this &quot;translation,&quot; which is actually a full paraphrase, is the same as with all paraphrase and &quot;dynamic equivalence&quot; translations:  the translation removes all the consistency of terms that God used to form chains of thought.  In a word-for-word translation, the translation from the original languages is highly consistent in the use of what English words translate which Hebrew and Greek words, allowing one to follow, even in English, certain trains of thought that go throughout the Bible and are needful to more properly interpret the Bible as one consistent revelation of Truth.  In addition, the NLT, just in its surface reading, is far from accurate as to what is said and intended at the basic level in the original languages.  In my reading, I have found the NLT to say things and bring meanings into texts that just aren't there in the original language documents they used.  They gave up virtually all that is good in an accurate presentation of Truth just to make it easy to read.  Well, truth, not ease, is what the Bible is about.  In my opinion, as concerning all paraphrases, this is not the Word of God at all; it is simply a commentary written in the form of scripture and is highly inaccurate.	2000-10-23
US	47611746	R2OM3JOLIBPEZV	0851510329	288205189	Profiting from the Word	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Getting Back to Biblical Spiritually Intelligent Bible Study	This book was recommended to me by another reviewer and all I can say is read it.  It is so useful in transforming our study of God's Word from an effort to be smart and a better debater to being transformed ourselves into Christ's likeness.  The Bible is neither a textbook nor an ammunition depot; it is the Holy Spirit's tool to deal with us regarding our own personal development to Christlikeness and then to declare God's glory, not our sound arguments, to the world (1 Peter 2:9).  One will never be able to truly and biblically challenge another person to godliness unless one is progressing that way him/herself.  Pink's book is laid out into chapters of practical application, each chapter being enumerated into various points.  Each chapter title with each one's enumeration could be copied into an outline and inserted into one's Bible as a guideline to make sure he/she is reading the Bible for the God-given reason it should be read.  Here is a 20-century book presenting the oft-forgotten Puritan approach to studying scripture effectively and thoughtfully.  Thank you, Joe, for the gift.	2000-10-23
US	47611746	R1ZTYCBEHE2MEJ	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	5	22	26	N	N	What Eternal Life for the Christian is All About	Knowing God is the very reason Jesus Christ came.  John 17:3 says that knowing God is the definition and meaning and purpose of eternal life.  Here is another book focusing its readers on the Person of God.    It is very well written and covers many, though not all of God's revealed attributes.  Any person looking to study the Person of God to know Him more intimately (that should be every born-again Christian) needs to read this book.  Place this book next to Pink's &quot;Gleaning in the Godhead&quot; and Tozer's &quot;The Knowledge of the Holy&quot; and you will have a 3-book library on the Person of God probably unsurpassed at this time.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R2TIQRMPRWD8CR	0966378601	684114569	Shepherding a Child's Heart	Books	5	59	94	N	N	Finally, a One-Stop Parenting Book--God's Way of Parenting	At last, a simpler book on child rearing that is consistently Bible based.  This book accomplishes what other authors required a series of books to say, and after writing a series of books never said what Ted Tripp says.  It goes right to the heart of the matter and for the most part lays the principles out, leaving the applications to you, the parent, except where the Bible doesn't make that allowance.  My son was 12 years old before I found this book, and now I'm sorry I didn't see it before my son was born.  I know from this book that I need to forget all the techniques well-intentioned Christian family counselors have given and go right to God's technique--Sheperding grace.  I would highly recommend this book to every parent, and also put along side it &quot;Transforming Grace&quot; by Jerry Bridges to explain in more detail the life of grace with which a parent should love, and bestow upon, their children.  The book doesn't really say what one should do if they are 12 years behind in doing parenting God's way, but I have found that by trying to start with parental shepherding 12 years late, the shepherding grace approach changes the direction of the whole family, in spite of blowing it for 12 years prior.  Parents, read this book and start over in your approach to biblical parenting.  It's simpler and certainly more effective.  Sorry, Mr. Dobson.  Mr. Tripp has done a better job in this area.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R1GSO6DHJAFITG	0802458548	485849599	Names Of God (Names of... Series)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Letting the Character and Person of God Interpret the Bible	Here is a great book for people just beginning to delve into the realms of God's nature and character and work.  This book deals with some of the main names/titles of God as found in the Old Testament.  God's names and titles are each a sermon in themselves.  So often, people define God by first defining who they think, or want, man to be.  Nathan Stone turns that around very simply by showing that God is the &quot;mold&quot; into which all other views must fit.  God is who He is.  We cannot change who God is just to make room for what we want man to be or to make the Bible say what we want it to say.  The foundation of Bible interpretation is revelation of the Person of God.  That must be determined first before any other doctrinal study can be studied Biblically and accurately.  Get a copy of this book and start learning who God is; and accept what God reveals Himself to be, whether you like it or not, because God isn't going to change for us.  Then rethink all your doctrinal beliefs in light of your new Biblical understanding of God.  Nathan Stone, with this book, will get you well on your way.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R3N5V78KI0K1V2	0802458548	485849599	Names Of God (Names of... Series)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Letting the Character and Person of God Interpret the Bible	Here is a great book for people just beginning to delve into the realms of God's nature and character and work.  This book deals with some of the main names/titles of God as found in the Old Testament.  God's names and titles are each a sermon in themselves.  So often, people define God by first defining who they think, or want, man to be.  Nathan Stone turns that around very simply by showing that God is the &quot;mold&quot; into which all other views must fit.  God is who He is.  We cannot change who God is just to make room for what we want man to be or to make the Bible say what we want it to say.  The foundation of Bible interpretation is revelation of the Person of God.  That must be determined first before any other doctrinal study can be studied Biblically and accurately.  Get a copy of this book and start learning who God is; and accept what God reveals Himself to be, whether you like it or not, because God isn't going to change for us.  Then rethink all your doctrinal beliefs in light of your new Biblical understanding of God.  Nathan Stone, with this book, will get you well on your way.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R3W4WUQR84GWWR	0801099218	757605828	Young's Literal Translation of the Holy Bible	Books	5	74	75	N	N	An English Bible True to Old Testament Hebrew Tenses	The Hebrews had a dynamic way of saying things. They would speak of past circumstances in the present tense to pull you into the middle of it, to let you experience it. They would use the past tense to show that future things will definitely come to pass, thus assuring that God's promises are a sure thing. Also, there are many times when modern translations hide the actual meaning of the Hebrew by converting a present-tense verb into the future tense, thus veiling the fact that the verse is speaking of what should be a present, everyday experience rather than one waiting to happen. Good examples would be Psalm 1 where the last verse is usually translated &quot;shall perish&quot; wheras the Hebrew tense says &quot;has perished&quot; showing the definiteness that the ungodly will definitely perish; in other words, the Hebrew says that it's as good as done. Also, verse 3 ususally reads &quot;whose leaf also shall not wither, and whatever he does shall prosper.&quot; But the actual Hebrew tenses agree with New Testament teaching, for it truly says &quot;whose leaf also does not wither, and whatever he does propers.&quot; That's right: It's not simply a promise for the future, but a promise for the present everyday life of God's people. And there's more than that. Other translations of the Old Testament reset the tenses of the Hebrew verbs based on a fallicy that the Hebrew letter Waw or Vav had a converting power over the tense. But no language of that time including Hebrew showed any such conversive grammar. And the translators have broken their own rule about the Waw conversive uncountable times. If you want to read the Old Testament in the dynamic presentation of actual Hebrew tenses, this is the only Bible that stays true to it. And don't worry about knowing how the Hebrew tenses work. Young explains it pretty simply in the front of the Bible and also gives more details for the &quot;intellectual.&quot; If you read this translation in the Old Testament, you won't read the Old Testament the same way again.<br />Contrary to the Amazon note on this book, the book is not out of print.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	RR2UPQJ0CDI3O	0851516556	513473953	The Everlasting Righteousness	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Book for Every 20th- &amp; 21st-Century Christian to Read	Here is a book that scripturally explains the saving work of God in Christ Jesus and cuts through the false gospel of &quot;ask Jesus in your heart.&quot;  One gets excited by reading such dynamic thoughts on salvation.  This book and &quot;Justification by Faith Alone&quot; by Charles Hodge break through the unbiblical teachings concerning saving grace being propagated today.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	RSLLJHXI7IXSE	0802458548	485849599	Names Of God (Names of... Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Letting the Character and Person of God Interpret the Bible	Here is a great book for people just beginning to delve into the realms of God's nature and character and work.  This book deals with some of the main names/titles of God as found in the Old Testament.  God's names and titles are each a sermon in themselves.  So often, people define God by first defining who they think, or want, man to be.  Nathan Stone turns that around very simply by showing that God is the &quot;mold&quot; into which all other views must fit.  God is who He is.  We cannot change who God is just to make room for what we want man to be or to make the Bible say what we want it to say.  The foundation of Bible interpretation is revelation of the Person of God.  That must be determined first before any other doctrinal study can be studied Biblically and accurately.  Get a copy of this book and start learning who God is; and accept what God reveals Himself to be, whether you like it or not, because God isn't going to change for us.  Then rethink all your doctrinal beliefs in light of your new Biblical understanding of God.  Nathan Stone, with this book, will get you well on your way.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R2WDML8WCCRGN4	0802458548	485849599	Names Of God (Names of... Series)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Letting the Character and Person of God Interpret the Bible	Here is a great book for people just beginning to delve into the realms of God's nature and character and work.  This book deals with some of the main names/titles of God as found in the Old Testament.  God's names and titles are each a sermon in themselves.  So often, people define God by first defining who they think, or want, man to be.  Nathan Stone turns that around very simply by showing that God is the &quot;mold&quot; into which all other views must fit.  God is who He is.  We cannot change who God is just to make room for what we want man to be or to make the Bible say what we want it to say.  The foundation of Bible interpretation is revelation of the Person of God.  That must be determined first before any other doctrinal study can be studied Biblically and accurately.  Get a copy of this book and start learning who God is; and accept what God reveals Himself to be, whether you like it or not, because God isn't going to change for us.  Then rethink all your doctrinal beliefs in light of your new Biblical understanding of God.  Nathan Stone, with this book, will get you well on your way.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R35FT582QN9FCF	0310280400	989094872	All the Divine Names and Titles in the Bible: A Unique Classification of All Scriptural Designations of the Three Persons of the Trinity (All Series by Dr. Lockyer)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	A Comprehensive Text that Needs to be Republished	How in the world could such a book be out of print?  Does it reflect the mentality of Christians today, that they are more focused on themselves than on God?  The publisher probably wouldn't take this book out of print unless people just weren't buying it.  Well, people need to read this book.  It is a hidden classic, part of a series Herbert Lockyer produced on the Bible.  The names and titles (and attributes) of God are the very foundation and purpose of the revelation of the Bible.  This book is comprehensive and an excellent resource for critical Bible study concerning the Person of God.  Such a book would help restore the theocentric and Christocentric thinking and living that is so absolutely critical for correct Bible interpretation and Biblical obedience.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R3598OXNE26GFF	0830814515	130519855	Dictionary of Biblical Imagery	Books	5	66	81	N	N	Commentaries and Study Bibles, Step Aside. The Bible is Back	Put your commentaries at the bottom of the pile.  Put your study Bibles (God's Word with man's opinions presumptiously slipped in with it) with your commentaries.  Here is a book that uses the Bible to interpret the Bible (which commentaries rarely do).  This book is an objective approach to Bible interpretation, using scriptures throughout the Bible in their context to determine the meaning of Bible words as the Bible defines them--Scripture defining Scripture.  The book deals with figures of speech, figures of association, metonymy, synechdoche, metaphors and similies, cultures, writing techniques, and far more.  It is written clearly and concisely, with much detail.  It reads dynamically and even devotionally.  It is written at a level for any person who wants to study the Bible seriously and correctly without being a heavy theological work.  This book is not written as a commentary on Bible texts, but is a resource to help you let the Bible be it's own commentary.  When I use this book which, again, uses scripture to explain scripture, I rarely use a commentary.  With this book, I can study the Bible on my own (which is what God primarily intends) and use the book as a scripture resource to help determine what concepts are imbedded in the text by the use of certain words and writing techniques.  Commentaries are okay when one gets stuck in their thought processes or when they need a nudge of what a text may be saying.  Commentaries can help us think in new directions and think &quot;out of the box.&quot;  But commentaries must only be used to spur one on.  They must not be used to just lift an answer from someone and just blindly use it, thus taking the easy way out and putting blind trust in someone else just because they have an education.  But this dictionary isn't a commentary.  It reads very openly and is self discerning because it is so Bible based.  It recognizes that the first rule of Bible interpretation is the Bible contexts themselves.  Buy one.  Useit.  You won't be needing your commentaries too much because you'll have a major tool that will help you seek God for yourself and what He is saying in His Word to you, not what someone else thinks you need to hear.  This book allows you to be personal with God in His Word.  So open your Bible, place this help with you, and learn more easily what God is saying.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R4AM8D0D5JIS5	1570512086	765269189	A Shepherd's Heart	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Living the Shepherding Life	A Shepherd's Heart is a beautiful gift book which includes various devotions on shepherding and also short quotes from many people on shepherding.  This book shows what the Bible already shows:  That the shepherd heart of God is foundational for understanding our relationship with Him and our relationship with others.  It also reminds the reader of the need to live, and the beauty of living, a shepherd life toward all other relationships we have.  This is a book that always sits on our living room table and is read devotionally on a regular basis.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	RSZXGUHWU2BGO	0060684127	470924188	The Knowledge of the Holy: The Attributes of God: Their Meaning in the Christian Life	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Personal Library Must	Here is another book focusing its readers on the Person of God.    It is very well written and covers many, though not all of God's revealed attributes.  Any person looking to study the Person of God to know Him more intimately (that should be every born-again Christian) needs to read this book.  Place this book next to Pink's &quot;Gleaning in the Godhead&quot; and Packer's &quot;Knowing God&quot; and you will have a 3-book library on the Person of God probably unsurpassed at this time.	2000-10-18
US	47611746	R3TZF5UL3ECLUB	0883681102	407061234	Humility	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Possibly the Best Book Ever Written on Humility	This book is a must read for every Christian.  I have never read a book which so accurately defines Biblical humility.  Murray shows how humility is a mindset and lifestyle, not a feeling.  Humility is the one-word definition of every Christian's life--or it should be.  Humility is the one-word description of all Christ was and is and of how He lived as our example to follow.  The most amazing truth in this book is that which speaks of humility being a quality not resulting from sin, but from grace (God working within the believer).  Jesus was perfect in humility, yet He never sinned.  Humility was required on the part of the Son of God in Heaven before He ever became incarnate, so humility is a heavenly, Godlike quality.  We need not sin to be humble; we need to be like Jesus as found in Mark 10:45 to be humble.  In other words, for a Christian to be perfectly humble, he/she must be the greatest servant, not the greatest sinner.  And if one could be totally sinless in this life, he/she would be perfectly humble.  This book is too short, too low in cost, and too easy to read (though challenging in virtually every sentence) for any Christian to have an excuse not to read it.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R3O6SSCF9BJEH3	0875523897	781490735	Postmillennialism: An Eschatology of Hope	Books	5	23	25	N	N	The Gospel is Not as Weak as the Church is Making It.	Mathison has put in short form the wonderful truths of the Bible that Chilton in &quot;Days of Vengeance&quot; put into 700 pages.  Mathison has, in short order, blown the dispensationalist out of any position of respectable Bible interpretation (as Chilton did in long order).  No one who believes Jesus' promise that He will build His Church without the Enemy prevailing could reject this book.  Only one that believes that God would break His promise to Abraham (to eventually give him descendants from every nation, tribe, tongue, people, and family by faith unto salvation, and that this would take place on earth in history by the Gospel of faith) would reject this book.  The Bible is clear:  God wins, the Church wins, the Gospel wins, the promise wins.  But all other interpretations of Bible eschatology teach that God loses, Satan gets the most by billions upon billions, the Church loses and gets beat up, the promise fails, and the Gospel is a failure.    Granted, dispensationalism is more sensational than post-millennialism; but then again, winning the majority of the world to Christ is incomparably more exciting than dispensationalism.  Thank you, Mr. Mathison, for putting out such an easy-to-read volume that is so convincing without being argumentative.  After you read this book, you'll be ready to move on to Chilton.  And after reading either author, your excitement in doing the work of the Gospel will reach new heights, that is, if you believe the Gospel and the Church win.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R1T9MGAXB5AELX	0883681102	407061234	Humility	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Possibly the Best Book Ever Written on Humility	This book is a must read for every Christian.  I have never read a book which so accurately defines Biblical humility.  Murray shows how humility is a mindset and lifestyle, not a feeling.  Humility is the one-word definition of every Christian's life--or it should be.  Humility is the one-word description of all Christ was and is and of how He lived as our example to follow.  The most amazing truth in this book is that which speaks of humility being a quality not resulting from sin, but from grace (God working within the believer).  Jesus was perfect in humility, yet He never sinned.  Humility was required on the part of the Son of God in Heaven before He ever became incarnate, so humility is a heavenly, Godlike quality.  We need not sin to be humble; we need to be like Jesus as found in Mark 10:45 to be humble.  In other words, for a Christian to be perfectly humble, he/she must be the greatest servant, not the greatest sinner.  And if one could be totally sinless in this life, he/she would be perfectly humble.  This book is too short, too low in cost, and too easy to read (though challenging in virtually every sentence) for any Christian to have an excuse not to read it.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R1WPD9V03S958X	0883681102	407061234	Humility	Books	5	145	151	N	N	Possibly the Best Book Ever Written on Humility	This book is a must read for every Christian.  I have never read a book which so accurately defines Biblical humility.  Murray shows how humility is a mindset and lifestyle, not a feeling.  Humility is the one-word definition of every Christian's life--or it should be.  Humility is the one-word description of all Christ was and is and of how He lived as our example to follow.  The most amazing truth in this book is that which speaks of humility being a quality not resulting from sin, but from grace (God working within the believer).  Jesus was perfect in humility, yet He never sinned.  Humility was required on the part of the Son of God in Heaven before He ever became incarnate, so humility is a heavenly, Godlike quality.  We need not sin to be humble; we need to be like Jesus as found in Mark 10:45 to be humble.  In other words, for a Christian to be perfectly humble, he/she must be the greatest servant, not the greatest sinner.  And if one could be totally sinless in this life, he/she would be perfectly humble.  This book is too short, too low in cost, and too easy to read (though challenging in virtually every sentence) for any Christian to have an excuse not to read it.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R3AVTUBC4DGUDF	1564765938	676364408	Be Basic (Genesis 1-11): Believing the Simple Truth of God's Word (The BE Series Commentary)	Books	1	4	41	N	N	Be Basic:  Basically Not Good	Warren Wiersbe has again written a disappointing book.  Mr. Wiersbe makes what are obvious mistakes in his exegesis of the Scripture, in this case Genesis 1 - 11.  Mr. Weirsbe is generally very capable of writing basic commentaries when the approach is life application.  But when he attempts to dig a little deeper, whether it be theological or more subtle nuances, he misses the obvious.  It could be, considering the speed at which he is writing the &quot;Be&quot; series, that he just isn't giving himself the time to appropriately understand the scripture.  The &quot;Be&quot; series is a basic commentary, for sure, but whether one is very knowledgeable of the Word of God or just a babe in Christ, this book and the rest of the series require a great amount of discernment (a discernment which new believers would not have, and yet the books are written more for their benefit).  One must basically study the scripture for themselves more closely than Mr. Weirsbe did in writing the book.  If one needs to do that, then why even buy the book?  Do it yourself (which is what we're supposed to do primarily anyway).  I believe that the average, well-studied Bible teacher would find this series to be quite shallow compared to what he already knows and thus would be spending a lot of time just trying to figure out the errors instead of preparing his lesson.  On the other hand, though the errors certainly aren't heretical by any means (although his view of divorce and remarriage is scary and a little wierd), the books are not truly safe for a new believer, for such a person would not realize just all the problems in the explanation of scripture contained in the book and would tend to believe that Mr. Wiersbe is right because of his education.  Thus, new believers would get off on the wrong foot right from the start, not on heretical things, but on a whole lot of little things that would add up to some big problems.  Mr. Wiersbe is a wonderful Christian man and certainly able to teach the scripture if he takes his time and is more careful, but for whatever reason, he fails in this series to adequately compare scripture with scripture in drawing conclusions about the meaning of scripture.  I own all the books in the series to this point, and in most cases, it has been a frustrating experience to read them.  I read them mainly to see what people may be saying (especially those who are learning from Mr. Wiersbe) that is not accurate and then come up with a biblical correction.  I rarely turn to this series for serious, positive, investigational study.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R2IOGL9QULP0YL	0930462092	308862166	The Days of Vengeance: An Exposition of the Book of Revelation	Books	5	105	115	N	N	The Greatest Example of Interpreting the Bible w/ the Bible	One cannot interpret the Book of Revelation without using the rest of the Bible.  Now all books on Revelation claim to use the Bible, but as a norm they prooftext the Bible rather than present a contextually consistent, fully Bible-interpreted presentation of the scripture all in line with one another.  Chilton has done about as good a job as any human can do, short of just handing someone a Bible.  This book is contextually consistent and historically consistent from beginning to end.  This book also contains some interesting appendices which are challenging.  The one on Zionism is extremely biblical, regardless that some would call it anti-semitic.  If this particular appendix is anti-semitic, then so is Romans and Galatians and Hebrews, and so is Jesus and Paul.  On the other hand, Chilton is a Tylerite and so holds to what would be termed a restoration of theocracy in the world (or just short of it), with which I disagree.  This is found in another appendix but doesn't influence the commentary as a whole.  The book is definitely Reformed in its theology, but Reformed des not equal postmillennial.  Chilton is postmillennial and thus believes, in contrast to ALL other views of eschatology, that God wins, the Gospel succeeds, the promises to Abraham will be fulfilled, and the Church will be victorious.  Chilton has produced the &quot;long version&quot; of Mathison's Postmillennialism:  An Eschatology of Hope.&quot;  To be honest, I believe one would be hard pressed to refute Chilton's book without resorting back to selective prooftexting (the flawed Bible interpretation method of choice among most today).  The book is covenantally based, but then, so is the Bible.  The entire history of redemption to the end of the world is based on the covenant of God, especially seen in the promise to Abraham.  God promised that every nation, tribe, tongue, people, and family would eventually be blessed by having the same faith in the Gospel as Abraham, and that this would be onearth (obviously, saving faith doesn't exist after the world is destroyed).  Chilton proves from contextual use of Scripture that postmillennialism is, in fact, the only eschatological view that has existed in the entire history of the world that fits Scripture.  The Old Testament is clear on this (read the Psalms and Isaiah 40 - 66).  The New Testament is just as obvious.  Well, many won't like this book because it lacks the sensationalism of premillennial views (look at the popularity of the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series).  But then again, if one thinks that the saving of souls is truly sensational, then they might be willing to give up newspaper and evening news theology with its far-out ideas and come to something far more Biblically sensational:  The saving of sinners.  Chilton has set the standard.  I know that no premillennial theologian will ever come close to refuting this book, because premillennialism is based on prooftexting the Bible plus the addition of politics and other things that will support their view.  Postmillennialism is just based on the Bible; it needs nothing but the Bible.  Postmillennialism is the only eschatological view that is Sola Scriptura.  Chilton gets 5 stars for a great book and 5 more for setting an unsurpassable standard.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R2UVR1JELOOJCS	0800715357	100568318	A Chance to Die: The Life and Legacy of Amy Carmichael	Books	5	138	139	N	N	A Rare Godly Example for Every Christian	Here is a book that will challenge any Christian in any walk of life to deny themselves, take up their cross daily, and follow Jesus.  The missionary life is, in fact, the normal Christian life for every Christian, for every Christian is an ambassador for Christ.  As such, this biography will be a great help to any reader in focusing their hearts and minds on the God-given task before them (1 Peter 2:9)--whatever their walk of life.  This book also gives much needed rebukes against those who support missions financially on the basis of numbers saved.  This book re-affirms the biblical principle time and again that the Christian's work is not saving, but declaring.  The work of saving is God's alone; and if no one is saved, the missionary must keep working and we must keep supporting.  Finally:  Is this book biased?  Gee, I hope so.  Biased for one who gave all for the lost and for the glory of God.  If there is an unhealthy bias in the book, I don't see it.  And if it is there, it doesn't matter; for the issue is not Elizabeth Elliot and her approach to Amy Carmichael.  The issue is that Amy Carmichael has left us a Christlike example that is biblical.  We need to follow her as she followed Christ.  Forget any supposed bias and try living her life.  Believe me, no one who spends their time trying to follow Christ as Amy did will have any time left to worry about possible bias.  And the book shows Amy as a sinner, for sure.  So the book does not gloss over Amy's faults.  This is a must read; but be prepared to be convicted and challenged.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R33SC2TVMDU6EU	0801057922	139748664	More Than Conquerors: An Interpretation of the Book of Revelation	Books	4	99	102	N	N	A Refreshing Return to Letting the Bible Interpret the Bible	William Hendrickson has done a great job in this book in presenting the &quot;historic amillennial&quot; view of interpreting the book of Revelation.  He does a good job showing how Revelation is written in signs and symbols (as Rev. 1:1 in the Greek clearly says) rather than being written as a literal account.  Through consistently using the Bible to interpret the Bible (not simply prooftexting), Hendrickson shows that Revelation is not a book which appeals to our desire for the sensational.  Dispensationalists would do well to seriously read this second best book I've ever read on Revelation.  Hendrickson is not perfect though.  He occasionally breaks out of his, and the Bible's, consistent method of interpretation in this book and uses  some &quot;literal&quot; interpreting (such as that concerning the black plague).  Overall, I recommend this book at an excellent starting point, but not as an ending point.  There is a book which takes the technique of using the Bible to interpret the Bible to a much higher level (The Days of Vengeance by Chilton), but whereas Chilton's book is over 700 pages, Hendrickson's book is about a fourth the size.  One would do well to begin at the shorter, simpler exegesis of Hendrickson before moving on to something so completely comprehensive as Chilton's book.  More than Conquerors is a presentation of historic amillennialism and there are other forms of amillennialism to consider as well (futurist and post-millennial for instance).  But the main issue is the refreshing approach Hendrickson restores to interpreting the Bible; that is, he uses the Bible, not the newspaper, to determine the meaning of the prophecies.  For this one reason, I believe this book should be on people's reading list.  And dispensensationalists would do well to put down the newspaper and turn off the evening news (which are never good commentaries on the Bible) and pick up Hendrickson's book.  I personally do not ultimately agree with Hendrickson's specific interpretation in every area, but I agree with his method of using the Bible to interpret the Bible.  Therefore, it's a good text book on Bible interpretation in process, even though one may not ultimately agree with the book's final conclusions.	2000-10-17
US	47611746	R3500B9AKSMTIP	0310214351	158171246	A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Book Written by an Experienced Authority	Here is a book that expounds Psalm 23 like you won't likely find elsewhere.  This book will get you thinking &quot;out of the box&quot; of typical interpretation (as sincere as many Bible interpreters are) and bring you into the realm of sheperding reality as it applies to the believer's life.  Phillip Keller has done a wonderful job.  Whether you are going to teach Psalm 23 or use it for prayer, or song worship (for which it is intended), you probably won't find a better book written than this one.  You won't believe what you've been missing in this Psalm.  You can't read it just once, almost just like the Psalm itself.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	RAF735QF3UGPL	0310575729	197672893	Charismatic Chaos	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Great Book for Openminded Charismatics	John MacArthur has written an enduring work, addressing very clearly the problems with the charismatic movement.  Ultimately, Scripture has the only say on how God is working after the first century.  John has very accurately shown that while God hasn't changed, His methods have (more than once), as is obvious from the reading the Bible.  Because the charismatic movement puts much stock in personal experience as an interpreter (which denies the Reformation doctrine of Sola Scriptura [scripture alone], a foundational doctrine responsible for pulling the Church out of the Dark Ages), they very often miss the truths that are only available by comparing Scripture with Scripture.  Also, they are left wide open for the influence of health &amp; wealth philosophies, new age thinking, and the like.  Charismatic Chaos is not a tool with which to blast charismatics, but a tool of protection for charismatics to come back to the scripture-alone doctrine so necessary to interpret their experiences and the Bible correctly.  Until charismatics see the lack of appropriate Bible hermeneutics in their movement, as John has so clearly pointed out, they will remain a group which places experiences and thrills, signs and wonders, etc. alongside the authority of the Bible.  I encourage charismatics to read this book openmindedly and with an open Bible alone as the interpreter of both John's book and their experiences.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	R3OVW9B7FC69UH	0310214351	158171246	A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Book Written by an Experienced Authority	Here is a book that expounds Psalm 23 like you won't likely find elsewhere.  Who else could explain Psalm 23 but a shepherd who also is born again? who understands the shepherding concept of God in the Bible?  This book will get you thinking &quot;out of the box&quot; of typical interpretation (as sincere as many Bible interpreters are) and bring you into the realm of sheperding reality as it applies to the believer's life.  When God wrote about shepherds and shepherding, He used a lifestyle that the Hebrews would understand.  Did you know that the shadow of death is not about dying?  Did you know that, while this Psalm is useful for deathbed circumstances, it is most applicable to the living and their daily circumstances?  Phillip Keller has done a wonderful job.  Even when one reads Charles Spurgeon's &quot;The Treasury of David&quot; as he and numerous other commentators address Psalm 23, they miss the mark noticeably because they aren't shepherds.  Whether you are going to teach Psalm 23 or use it for prayer, or song worship (for which it is intended), you probably won't find a better book written than this one.  You won't believe what you've been missing in this Psalm.  You can't read it just once, almost just like the Psalm itself.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	R2ICF7WHZOZNPM	0917006259	808585873	The Treasury of David (3 Volumes Set)	Books	5	55	55	N	N	An Abundance of Counselors	The Bible says that in the abundance of [godly] counselors there is safety.  Spurgeon has applied this wisdom in the Treasury of David.  When you read this commentary, you find scores of Bible teachers and commentators addressing the truths of God's Word in the Psalms.  Something very useful is that when commentators disagreed on an interpretation of particular verses, Spurgeon included the opposing views (assuming the views were not expressing cardinal error).  With this commentary on your shelf, you eliminate the need to buy a bunch of different commentary sets on the Psalms.  Spurgeon has put it together for you.  After reading this, the only thing you'll need to do is study the Psalms for yourself (which is what God wants you to do anyway).  But we all need help from time to time to think &quot;out of the box.&quot;  The Treasury of David will provide that opportunity.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	R3AA0SFMY3F0HR	0310575729	197672893	Charismatic Chaos	Books	5	30	41	N	N	A Great Book for Openminded Charismatics	John MacArthur has written an enduring work, addressing very clearly the problems with the charismatic movement.  Ultimately, Scripture has the only say on how God is working after the first century.  John has very accurately shown that while God hasn't changed, His methods have (more than once), as is obvious from the reading the Bible.  Because the charismatic movement puts much stock in personal experience as an interpreter (which denies the Reformation doctrine of Sola Scriptura [scripture alone], a foundational doctrine responsible for pulling the Church out of the Dark Ages), they very often miss the truths that are only available by comparing Scripture with Scripture.  Also, they are left wide open for the influence of health &amp; wealth philosophies, new age thinking, and the like.  Charismatic Chaos is not a tool with which to blast charismatics, but a tool of protection for charismatics to come back to the scripture-alone doctrine so necessary to interpret their experiences and the Bible correctly.  Until charismatics see the lack of appropriate Bible hermeneutics in their movement, as John has so clearly pointed out, they will remain a group which places experiences and thrills, signs and wonders, etc. alongside the authority of the Bible.  I encourage charismatics to read this book openmindedly and with an open Bible alone as the interpreter of both John's book and their experiences.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	R1ULI4R1AL2LS	0802430031	715047934	Gleanings in the Godhead	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Letting God be God	It is a shame that this book is out of print.  Of all the books written concerning the Person and character of God, this one belongs very near the top.  Pink writes with the intent of letting God be just who He says He is, no punches pulled.  In a day when we often redefine the Person of God by first making ourselves the standard, this book is desparately needed to be read by ministers and lay people alike.  Maybe that's why it's out of print; far less people buy books today that let God be God at the expense of our exalted view of sinful man.  Gleanings in the Godhead blows apart our habitual sin of making God in our own image.  And it does so because it is a biblical book.  Pink is only reiterating what God has already said about Himself.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	R1T4W1DJBXECUK	0310214351	158171246	A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23	Books	5	71	73	N	N	A Book Written by an Experienced Authority	Here is a book that expounds Psalm 23 like you won't likely find elsewhere.  Who else could explain Psalm 23 but a shepherd who also is born again? who understands the shepherding concept of God in the Bible?  This book will get you thinking &quot;out of the box&quot; of typical interpretation (as sincere as many Bible interpreters are) and bring you into the realm of sheperding reality as it applies to the believer's life.  When God wrote about shepherds and shepherding, He used a lifestyle that the Hebrews would understand.  Did you know that the shadow of death is not about dying?  Did you know that, while this Psalm is useful for deathbed circumstances, it is most applicable to the living and their daily circumstances?  Phillip Keller has done a wonderful job.  Even when one reads Charles Spurgeon's &quot;The Treasury of David&quot; as he and numerous other commentators address Psalm 23, they miss the mark noticeably because they aren't shepherds.  Whether you are going to teach Psalm 23 or use it for prayer, or song worship (for which it is intended), you probably won't find a better book written than this one.  You won't believe what you've been missing in this Psalm.  You can't read it just once, almost just like the Psalm itself.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	RL2658VOB1092	0310214351	158171246	A Shepherd Looks at Psalm 23	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Book Written by an Experienced Authority	Here is a book that expounds Psalm 23 like you won't likely find elsewhere.  Who else could explain Psalm 23 but a shepherd who also is born again? who understands the shepherding concept of God in the Bible?  This book will get you thinking &quot;out of the box&quot; of typical interpretation (as sincere as many Bible interpreters are) and bring you into the realm of sheperding reality as it applies to the believer's life.  When God wrote about shepherds and shepherding, He used a lifestyle that the Hebrews would understand.  Did you know that the shadow of death is not about dying?  Did you know that, while this Psalm is useful for deathbed circumstances, it is most applicable to the living and their daily circumstances?  Phillip Keller has done a wonderful job.  Even when one reads Charles Spurgeon's &quot;The Treasury of David&quot; as he and numerous other commentators address Psalm 23, they miss the mark noticeably because they aren't shepherds.  Whether you are going to teach Psalm 23 or use it for prayer, or song worship (for which it is intended), you probably won't find a better book written than this one.  You won't believe what you've been missing in this Psalm.  You can't read it just once, almost just like the Psalm itself.	2000-10-16
US	47611746	R16UNJLB1S58VX	0891096566	98817172	Transforming Grace: Living Confidently in God's Unfailing Love	Books	4	19	53	N	N	Jerry's Grace:  Almost But Not Quite Biblical	Jerry, in fact, does a wonderful job in explaining how the grace that justifies (i.e., saves) the sinner is the same and only foundational grace for all benefits, etc. of the Christian life.  We cannot in any way grow or diminish in our position of acceptance by God because Jesus Christ did absolutely everything necessary to turn away God's wrath forever and did absolutely everything necessary to keep us fully accepted by God without any wavering or second guessing on God's part.  God cannot justly diminish His relationship with us because of our sins or increase our fellowship with Him because of any righteous acts on our part.  Jesus did it all:  \\"It is finished.\\"  I highly recommend this book for this aspect of grace as Jerry presents it.     But Jerry comes up short by constantly saying in one way or another that grace is unmerited.  The Bible is clear:  grace (God's favor) is always earned.  There is not a single person who has been justified, sanctified, and glorified with a grace, a favor, that was not earned.  We find in Luke that Jesus grew in favor with God. . . .  This is exactly the point.  All grace ever shown to sinners was because Jesus earned it as our Substitute.  And considering the doctrine of imputation and the many \\"in Him\\" types of phrasings used by Paul, the Bible actually teaches that forensically (legally), Christians earned their salvation.  To put it another way:  when Jesus lived a perfectly acceptable life before God, suffered God's wrath for sin, died, rose, ascended, and began to reign in heaven, every true believer was \\"in Him\\" and therefore in a legal sense Christians were crucified for their sins, lived th perfect life necessary for salvation, and now reign with Him (Roman 2:13; Eph. 2; Gal. 2:20). It is interesting that when people define grace, they, like Jerry, define it 2 ways:  1)  unmerited favor; 2)  God's riches at Christ's expense.  Well, which is it?  These 2 explanations are diametrically opposed.  Either God's favor wasn't merited (option 1), or it was merited (option 2).  The Bible is clear:  God's favor is always merited; thankfully Jesus did it for us.     One other thought:  mention is made of unconditional love.  Again, the Bible knows nothing of the sort.  God's love for sinners is fully conditional upon Jesus Christ meeting fully, for us, the conditions required of us by God to be loved by Him:  living a sinless life.  We couldn't do it, but Jesus did.     \\"Transforming Grace\\" is definitely a worthwhile book and I highly recommend it for the teaching on saving grace as a way of life until death.  But it must be read with some discernment, replacing Jerry's comments about unmerited favor/love with the idea that God's favor/love must be, and is, merited, but by a Substitute--Jesus Christ. I would hope that Jerry would consider a re-write of the book with these crucial corrections.	2000-10-10
