US	47624974	RJT4RCCM1JH6	006102063X	51458965	Moving Pictures	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Silver Screen Stinker	Discworld, Terry Pratchett's alternative fantasy world mirroring our own and full of sharp satires and hilarious parodies, has become one of my favorite literary destinations. Pratchett's Discworld books are peopled with the most intriguing, creative characters, and he routinely displays the most outrageous wit in their pages. Yet, with twenty years and dozens of volumes devoted to this unique world, it stands to reason that a few of them will not quite meet the high standards that we fans have come to expect. This is one of those Discworld books.<br /><br />I have grown accustomed to rather flimsy plots in many Discworld volumes, as they often exist merely to give an excuse for Pratchett's incredibly inventive characters and his witty satires and parodies to dance through the pages. In `Moving Pictures', however, the characters and wit fail to justify the silly flimsiness of the plot. The parody rests on send-ups of old movies (mostly both stale and obvious), and there isn't any satire worth speaking of, as any social commentary here is far too obvious and banal to qualify as genuine satire. Nor do his characters delight here as they often do. Cut Me Own Throat Dibbler gets a leading role for once, proving that he works best as a minor bit player. Several of the recurring wizards show up, but they work best as comic relief when surrounded by other strong characters - here they are not. Even the Ape librarian of Unseen University (one of my favorite recurring characters) falls far short of usual expectations. Gaspode, a cynical, talking mut dog, has a rather large role as well, and becomes more annoying than amusing long before the end of the book.<br /><br />`Moving Pictures' is not totally without its moments - the high point of the book is a chase where the climatic scene from King Kong is totally inverted, which is as good as any parody Pratchett has ever done. Unfortunately, there just aren't enough moments like that one. This is a book that anyone new to Pratchett's Discworld should probably skip. And while the devoted Discworld regulars will probably want to read it eventually, they needn't be in any rush about it.<br /><br />Theo Logosd should probably skip. And while the devoted Discworld regulars will probably want to read it eventually, they needn't be in any rush about it.       Theo Logos	2005-09-27
US	47624974	R38FXLZFFKLZQO	0374175268	586571123	An Imperfect God: George Washington, His Slaves, and the Creation of America	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Washington and America's Original Sin - A Cautionary Tale	The troubling and uncomfortable subject of America's slave owning founders is a difficult one with which to deal, and one that many Americans would prefer to ignore altogether. The idea that men we have come to view as great and noble could on the one hand stake their lives and honor on the cause of freedom and liberty for \\"all\\" men, and on the other exclude an entire race that they held in bondage for their own profit is a huge contradiction that does not easily fit into the ideal American mythos that we have learned to revere.  Never the less, it is important to face it, own it as part of our history, and begin to understand the meaning and consequences of this stain on the American ideal.<br /><br /> In `An Imperfect God', Henry Wiencek examines this question by focusing on the foremost founder - George Washington. In Washington, he detects a clear evolution of thought. He shows us Washington the young man who seemingly accepted the institution without question; the mature man who clearly began to question it on moral and ethical grounds, and the old man who found it morally repugnant, and against the wishes of his family, emancipated all of his slaves in his will, making him unique among the slave owning founders.<br /><br />Wiencek recreates the world that Washington was born into, showing us the context of his thought and action. He explains the social system of the great landed plantation owners, whose wealth and prestige were built upon human slavery. He is unsparing in his depiction of an institution that often led to shared blood ties between masters and slaves, so that many masters held in bondage their own children, grandchildren, brothers and sisters, and reveals that some of the slaves held at Mt. Vernon were blood relatives of Martha Washington. And he makes it clear, not from the judgment of our own times, but from Washington's and other founder's own words that they were aware of the great moral evil of this vile institution. He shows us the great change in attitude that Washington experienced over the course of his lifetime, from a young man so hardened to the evils of the institution that he helped to run a lottery that raffled off Black children to pay a friend's debts, to the old man who, after many missed opportunities, wrote a remarkable will ten months before his death to free and care for all of his slaves, repudiating in death the evil system he was never able to directly confront during his life.<br /><br />Wiencek writes of Washington with respect. He does not attempt to attack the greatness of the man, but to show us how even the noble of spirit can fail to act in the face of institutionalized evil. The failure of Washington and the other founders to eradicate slavery in their new land of liberty led directly to the terrible Civil War (an event which both Washington and Jefferson anticipated), and the continuing consequences of their failure still haunt us today. As such, `An Imperfect God' is a cautionary tale for our contemplation.<br /><br />This should not be the first or the only book that you read on George Washington - it would not present a balanced picture of the man. Yet the dark history that it details is important, and is ignored at our peril. Knowing this, the greatest failure of the founding generation is as important to a full understanding of America as is knowledge of their tremendous achievements, and only by facing the inherent contradiction of the two can we move on to build a better America for future generations.<br /><br />Theo Logose that Washington experienced over the course of his lifetime, from a young man so hardened to the evils of the institution that he helped to run a lottery that raffled off Black children to pay a friend's debts, to the old man who, after many missed opportunities, wrote a remarkable will ten months before his death to free and care for all of his slaves, repudiating in death the evil system he was never able to directly confront during his life.    Wiencek writes of Washington with respect. He does not attempt to attack the greatness of the man, but to show us how even the noble of spirit can fail to act in the face of institutionalized evil. The failure of Washington and the other founders to eradicate slavery in their new land of liberty led directly to the terrible Civil War (an event which both Washington and Jefferson anticipated), and the continuing consequences of their failure still haunt us today. As such, `An Imperfect God' is a cautionary tale for our contemplation.    This should not be the first or the only book that you read on George Washington - it would not present a balanced picture of the man. Yet the dark history that it details is important, and is ignored at our peril. Knowing this, the greatest failure of the founding generation is as important to a full understanding of America as is knowledge of their tremendous achievements, and only by facing the inherent contradiction of the two can we move on to build a better America for future generations.    Theo Logos	2005-09-27
US	47624974	RTAKR2V55NBOX	0452011469	627640630	HERE I STAND: A Life of Martin Luther	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Fascinating Life Brilliantly Rendered	The name Martin Luther shines out brightly in history's annuls, for he was one of those rare individuals who has a legitimate claim to having by the force of his own actions, shifted the flow of history, and changed the world. The scholarly religious debate he sought when he nailed his 95 Theses to the Wittenberg church door became the genesis of a movement that not only tore apart the ancient unity of Latin Christianity, but reshaped the social, political, and (eventually) economic destiny of the Western World. There can be no understanding of how the modern world emerged and grew from the medieval one without a basic understanding of the man Martin Luther. Roland Bainton's book `Here I Stand' is an excellent place to begin to gain that understanding.<br /><br />Bainton points out that in many ways Luther was an unlikely world-changer. This man who shook the world was a son of peasants rather than a high born aristocrat, in an age where the high born had a firm grip on the reigns of power. He suffered from extreme bouts of depression and elation that some today are tempted to identify as manic depressive disorder. And this man whose ideas helped to shape the modern world had a mind set firmly in medieval traditions. Yet he changed Western Christianity forever, helped to bring about major political realignments that eventually made possible the nation state, sowed the seeds for a Capitalist economic system, and produced a prodigious body of work of such erudition and power that he is widely seen as the father of the modern German language.<br /><br />`Here I Stand' is a sympathetic interpretation of Luther's life. Though it does touch on some of his less savory aspects, it generally rationalizes and downplays them. Indeed, many of his most questionable activities are only touched on in the most cursory and dismissive fashion in the last, short chapter of the book. Though biased in Luther's favor, it is thorough, informative, and wonderfully well written. Even when delving deeply into fine points of arcane theology, Bainton manages to hold the reader's interest with flowing prose that is clear and concise. This is the book's greatest virtue, and the chief reason to make `Here I Stand' the logical starting point for an examination of the life and ideas of Martin Luther. I recommend it highly.<br /><br />Theo Logoshen delving deeply into fine points of arcane theology, Bainton manages to hold the reader's interest with flowing prose that is clear and concise. This is the book's greatest virtue, and the chief reason to make `Here I Stand' the logical starting point for an examination of the life and ideas of Martin Luther. I recommend it highly. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-09-27
US	47624974	RSNUWUPQF86SC	0061031321	461879486	Thief of Time (Discworld)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Stitch In Time Makes A Clean Sweep	In `Thief of Time' the Assessors, those mysterious, anal retentive entities who are fanatically dedicated to an orderly, clockwork Universe and hate the messiness introduced by living beings, are at it once again with yet another plot to cleanse the world of the contagion of life. This time, their plot involves the building of the ultimate clock; a device made all of crystal and so in tune with the heartbeat of Universe that it can capture and imprison Time herself (yes, on Discworld, Time is a she). To accomplish this, they need the help of Jeremy Clockson, a clockmaker whose brilliance at his trade is only rivaled by the unsettling instability of his personality. More remarkably, they find it necessary for some of their number to actually assume human form and risk the horror of personality to accomplish their goal. Opposing their diabolical plan are the History Monks (a super secret order who work behind the scenes to preserve the integrity of history), and Death, who once again marshals his forces and rides to the rescue of life. As with many of Terry Pratchett's Discworld books, this plot is of little importance in itself, but serves mostly as the loose framework upon which he can hang his amazing characters and an excuse to display his highly evolved and hilarious sense of satire and parody.<br /><br /> Discworld fans will recognize many old friends in the present cast, led by Death himself, who as usual displays his grim fascination with and sympathy for those living creatures that are his responsibility to terminate. His companions, Death of Rats and Quoath the raven (the Laurel and Hardy of grim reaping), along with his ever resourceful granddaughter, the stern and perpetually ticked off Miss Susan do most of the footwork, while he rides off to marshal the rest of the Four Horsemen to ride as the world's quite Apocalypse approaches. Even Granny Ogg, the most colorful of the three Lancre witches has a significant cameo which adds nicely to her legend. But stealing center stage for much of the book is Lu-Tze, the humble sweeper and mythic hero of the History Monks. He shines as he expounds upon his Way, a body of wisdom learned from an old lady seamstress and consisting entirely of stale clich&eacute;s treated as deep, sacred wisdom, and as he displays a remarkable grasp of the art which senior Lancre witch Granny Weatherwax calls headology, which he continually demonstrates in his own sly, unassuming style.<br /><br />Pratchett's satire is sharp as ever, as he tackles everything from the apparent absurdity of mystical philosophy (and the fact that it sometimes works in spite of this) to the wild realm of Chaos Theory. Along the way he interjects priceless parodies - Qu, the History Monk's device expert (a la 007), who creates such items as exploding begging bowls with spring loaded blades; the Fifth Horseman of the Apocalypse, who split with the other four early on because of creative differences and went on to pursue a career in dairy products, and of course, death by chocolate.<br /><br />`Thief of Time' is not the best place to begin if you have never before read any of Pratchett's Discworld novels. Though it can stand alone, it builds upon themes and characters that have appeared in previous novels, such as `Hogfather', `Reaper Man', `Mort', `Wyrd Sisters', and others. If you are already familiar with some or all of these books, you can appreciate `Thief of Time' to the fullest extent of its brilliance. I recommend this one for experienced Discworld travelers.<br /><br />Theo Logosstealing center stage for much of the book is Lu-Tze, the humble sweeper and mythic hero of the History Monks. He shines as he expounds upon his Way, a body of wisdom learned from an old lady seamstress and consisting entirely of stale clichs treated as deep, sacred wisdom, and as he displays a remarkable grasp of the art which senior Lancre witch Granny Weatherwax calls headology, which he continually demonstrates in his own sly, unassuming style.   <br /> <br />Pratchett's satire is sharp as ever, as he tackles everything from the apparent absurdity of mystical philosophy (and the fact that it sometimes works in spite of this) to the wild realm of Chaos Theory. Along the way he interjects priceless parodies - Qu, the History Monk's device expert (a la 007), who creates such items as exploding begging bowls with spring loaded blades; the Fifth Horseman of the Apocalypse, who split with the other four early on because of creative differences and went on to pursue a career in dairy products, and of course, death by chocolate.  <br /> <br />`Thief of Time' is not the best place to begin if you have never before read any of Pratchett's Discworld novels. Though it can stand alone, it builds upon themes and characters that have appeared in previous novels, such as `Hogfather', `Reaper Man', `Mort', `Wyrd Sisters', and others. If you are already familiar with some or all of these books, you can appreciate `Thief of Time' to the fullest extent of its brilliance. I recommend this one for experienced Discworld travelers.  <br /> <br />Theo Logos  <br />	2005-09-27
US	47624974	R16H7J4TLVJOKL	0195159012	721748762	The Illustrated Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Essential, Important, & Inclusive, but falls short of "Best"	Widely praised as the best single volume history of the American Civil War, James McPherson's `Battle Cry of Freedom' comes close, but does not quite live up to that high praise. It has many virtues to recommend it, yet it contains flaws that are closely related to its virtues which, to my mind, make it fall short of the admittedly arbitrary \\"best\\" status.<br /><br />The book's strength is in its inclusiveness. Sub titled `The Civil War Era'; it truly lives up to its billing. It begins not with the opening of the Civil War, but with the Mexican War and the developing sectional crisis which that war helped to escalate. The first seven chapters of the book chronicle the many related social and political crises which continued to rive the country into two separate and hostile camps, making war all but inevitable. Even after McPherson launches into the story of the war proper, his book is much more that a simple tale of battles and generals. He devotes whole chapters to related subjects such as manufacturing capabilities North and South, the medical situation, the financing of the war, political crises which affect the war effort, foreign diplomacy, and the developing importance of the issue of slavery as an overwhelming factor in the war. He successfully gives the big picture of the overall social and political environment which is absolutely necessary to put the war into context and truly understand it.<br /><br />The greatest virtue of this volume, however, is its continued insistence on emphasizing the importance of the issue of slavery. McPherson repeatedly points out that while the war was fought for Union, its primary and overriding cause was the slavery issue. Many historians downplay or avoid this issue as much as possible, as it causes controversy and resentment among a large subset of Civil War students who are committed to the myth that slavery was a wholly peripheral issue that had little or nothing to do with the war. Though many of these people may be well meaning and sincere, I believe this myth to be as historically odious and dangerous as the idea of Holocaust denial, and it is much more pervasive and widely believed than that latter myth. McPherson tackles this myth head on, and from beginning to end drills in the importance of slavery as the primary cause of division in the country, the catalyst for secession and war, and one of the primary stumbling blocks to a peaceful settlement of the hostilities. He also clearly shows that while the North primarily fought the war for the cause of Union, that as the war progressed, the issue of freedom and emancipation took on greater and greater importance, until by war's end, many in the North saw the two as intertwined and of equal importance.<br /><br />`Battle Cry of Freedom' is not, however, without flaw. McPherson writes well enough to make this longish and comprehensive history flow along nicely without bogging down and boring the reader, but his prose lacks the charm that could make the events he writes of come passionately to life. This is compounded by the fact that his comprehensive take on the entire era limits the detail that he can devote to any single battle or personality of the war. All of the important events and people are here, but they are mere utilitarian sketches that mostly lack depth, color, and insight. This is a book to read for an overview, but the reader must go elsewhere for a deeper understanding of any single event or personality of the times.<br /><br />This Illustrated Edition is a heavy, oversized volume filled with many excellent maps, photographs, illustrations, and period cartoons on every page that nicely complements the text. Its bulk makes it unwieldy to carry about and read. Also, the illustrations have replaced the book's footnotes, so it is not the edition to have for anyone who needs to reference it for scholarly reasons. It would be most useful to those who do not already have large volumes of Civil War photographs and illustrations in their collections.<br /><br />`Battle Cry of Freedom' is an outstanding, important history of the American Civil War. Though it falls just short of its billing as the best single volume history of the war (Fletcher Pratt's `A Short History of the Civil War: Ordeal By Fire' still holds that distinction), it should be considered absolutely essential reading for any Civil War scholar or anyone wishing to gain a full knowledge of this great American conflict. It has my recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosections. <br /> <br />`Battle Cry of Freedom' is an outstanding, important history of the American Civil War. Though it falls just short of its billing as the best single volume history of the war (Fletcher Pratt's `A Short History of the Civil War: Ordeal By Fire' still holds that distinction), it should be considered absolutely essential reading for any Civil War scholar or anyone wishing to gain a full knowledge of this great American conflict. It has my recommendation. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-09-11
US	47624974	R3VZ2ICJJIKF1G	019516895X	345581260	Battle Cry of Freedom: The Civil War Era	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Essential, Important, & Inclusive, but falls short of "Best"	Widely praised as the best single volume history of the American Civil War, James McPherson's `Battle Cry of Freedom' comes close, but does not quite live up to that high praise. It has many virtues to recommend it, yet it contains flaws that are closely related to its virtues which, to my mind, make it fall short of the admittedly arbitrary \\"best\\" status.<br />The book's strength is in its inclusiveness. Sub titled `The Civil War Era'; it truly lives up to its billing. It begins not with the opening of the Civil War, but with the Mexican War and the developing sectional crisis which that war helped to escalate. The first seven chapters of the book chronicle the many related social and political crises which continued to rive the country into two separate and hostile camps, making war all but inevitable. Even after McPherson launches into the story of the war proper, his book is much more that a simple tale of battles and generals. He devotes whole chapters to related subjects such as manufacturing capabilities North and South, the medical situation, the financing of the war, political crises which affect the war effort, foreign diplomacy, and the developing importance of the issue of slavery as an overwhelming factor in the war. He successfully gives the big picture of the overall social and political environment which is absolutely necessary to put the war into context and truly understand it.<br />The greatest virtue of this volume, however, is its continued insistence on emphasizing the importance of the issue of slavery. McPherson repeatedly points out that while the war was fought for Union, its primary and overriding cause was the slavery issue. Many historians downplay or avoid this issue as much as possible, as it causes controversy and resentment among a large subset of Civil War students who are committed to the myth that slavery was a wholly peripheral issue that had little or nothing to do with the war. Though many of these people may be well meaning and sincere, I believe this myth to be as historically odious and dangerous as the idea of Holocaust denial, and it is much more pervasive and widely believed than that latter myth. McPherson tackles this myth head on, and from beginning to end drills in the importance of slavery as the primary cause of division in the country, the catalyst for secession and war, and one of the primary stumbling blocks to a peaceful settlement of the hostilities. He also clearly shows that while the North primarily fought the war for the cause of Union, that as the war progressed, the issue of freedom and emancipation took on greater and greater importance, until by war's end, many in the North saw the two as intertwined and of equal importance.<br />`Battle Cry of Freedom' is not, however, without flaw. McPherson writes well enough to make this longish and comprehensive history flow along nicely without bogging down and boring the reader, but his prose lacks the charm that could make the events he writes of come passionately to life. This is compounded by the fact that his comprehensive take on the entire era limits the detail that he can devote to any single battle or personality of the war. All of the important events and people are here, but they are mere utilitarian sketches that mostly lack depth, color, and insight. This is a book to read for an overview, but the reader must go elsewhere for a deeper understanding of any single event or personality of the times.<br />`Battle Cry of Freedom' is an outstanding, important history of the American Civil War. Though it falls just short of its billing as the best single volume history of the war (Fletcher Pratt's `A Short History of the Civil War: Ordeal By Fire' still holds that distinction), it should be considered absolutely essential reading for any Civil War scholar or anyone wishing to gain a full knowledge of this great American conflict. It has my recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logose, I believe this myth to be as historically odious and dangerous as the idea of Holocaust denial, and it is much more pervasive and widely believed than that latter myth. McPherson tackles this myth head on, and from beginning to end drills in the importance of slavery as the primary cause of division in the country, the catalyst for secession and war, and one of the primary stumbling blocks to a peaceful settlement of the hostilities. He also clearly shows that while the North primarily fought the war for the cause of Union, that as the war progressed, the issue of freedom and emancipation took on greater and greater importance, until by war's end, many in the North saw the two as intertwined and of equal importance.   `Battle Cry of Freedom' is not, however, without flaw. McPherson writes well enough to make this longish and comprehensive history flow along nicely without bogging down and boring the reader, but his prose lacks the charm that could make the events he writes of come passionately to life. This is compounded by the fact that his comprehensive take on the entire era limits the detail that he can devote to any single battle or personality of the war. All of the important events and people are here, but they are mere utilitarian sketches that mostly lack depth, color, and insight. This is a book to read for an overview, but the reader must go elsewhere for a deeper understanding of any single event or personality of the times.  `Battle Cry of Freedom' is an outstanding, important history of the American Civil War. Though it falls just short of its billing as the best single volume history of the war (Fletcher Pratt's `A Short History of the Civil War: Ordeal By Fire' still holds that distinction), it should be considered absolutely essential reading for any Civil War scholar or anyone wishing to gain a full knowledge of this great American conflict. It has my recommendation.    Theo Logos	2005-09-11
US	47624974	R19XXS44MTBGEJ	0807009571	689428484	Jefferson's Pillow: The Founding Fathers and the Dilemma of Black Patriotism	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Liberty, Slavery, & the Founders - a dilemma examined	`Jefferson's Pillow' is a brief but powerful work which examines the uncomfortable juxtaposition of America's founding ideals of liberty with the reality that many of the founders were slave owners. It examines four of those founders - Jefferson, Washington, Madison, and Mason, along with their rhetoric on liberty and slavery, their own words about the evils of slavery, and their failure to separate themselves from this noxious institution. It also delves into how slavery worked as an institution of power and privilege, and how the repercussions of that system still affect us today.<br />Wilkins' book stands out because while it tackles a most controversial and difficult subject it never stoops to being merely iconoclastic. Wilkins is not attempting to tear down the founders - indeed he spends a great deal of time establishing their very real brilliance, strengths and virtues. He never looks at them from outside of their own generation and culture, but judges them by the standards of their time and their own words. He recognizes how terribly difficult it would have been for any of these men born to power and privilege to divest themselves of the slaves that were both the source and symbol of that power. Yet he does not absolve them, as he proves through their own words and actions that they were aware of the system's evil, as well as their own inconsistency.<br />Wilkins attempts to humanize these four founders - to divest them of the marble image of secular saints that has petrified them in myth. He shows them to us as brilliant and principled, but human; able to create a great and enduring country, yet unable to rid themselves of a system they knew to be evil from which they profitted and gained power and privilege. He sums up this failing in the words of yet another founder, Patrick Henry - \\"Every thinking honest man rejects it [slavery] in speculation, how few in practice? Would any one believe that I am master of slaves of my own purchase? I am drawn along by ye general inconvenience of living without them; I will not, I cannot justify it.\\" Nothing illustrates Wilkins point better than these damning words from the man who is better known for proclaiming, \\"Give me liberty, or give me death!\\"<br />Wilkins writes with elegant and powerful prose, and great passion and intellect. He writes as a proud American who believes that we must honestly face the uncomfortable truth of the blemish slavery gave to our ideals of liberty so as to be better able to deal with its repercussions that still affect us today. His book is balanced, thoughtful, and respectful of its subject, and I believe essential reading for any American patriot. I give it my highest of recommendations.<br /><br />Theo Logosl inconvenience of living without them; I will not, I cannot justify it.\\" Nothing illustrates Wilkins point better than these damning words from the man who is better known for proclaiming, \\"Give me liberty, or give me death!\\"  Wilkins writes with elegant and powerful prose, and great passion and intellect. He writes as a proud American who believes that we must honestly face the uncomfortable truth of the blemish slavery gave to our ideals of liberty so as to be better able to deal with its repercussions that still affect us today. His book is balanced, thoughtful, and respectful of its subject, and I believe essential reading for any American patriot. I give it my highest of recommendations.    Theo Logos	2005-08-28
US	47624974	R84HO4Y6QOTBD	0803213395	417395119	Baseball Before We Knew It: A Search for the Roots of the Game	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fascinating Study of Baseball's Mist-Shrouded Origins	Baseball is a \\"what have you done for me lately?\\" kind of game, which in part may explain how little has been written about the game's earliest origins. Add that to the facts that many baseball fans are satisfied to believe the false myth (discredited almost from the point that it was first put forward) that Abner Doubleday invented baseball out of whole clothe in Cooperstown, New York, and that some fans are only interested in baseball history that can be explained through statistics, and you begin to understand why the game's true origins have been so widely ignored.<br /><br />David Block steps into this breach with a well researched, fascinating book that examines the history of our National pastime from its earliest origins through its evolution into the modern game. His original intent was simply to compile a bibliography of all the books and sources that touch on this subject, and indeed, nearly half the length of `Baseball Before We Knew It' is taken up with his bibliography and various appendices. He spends several chapters debunking not only the already thoroughly debunked Doubleday myth, but also challenging the more widely accepted theory that baseball evolved from the English game of rounders, and even calling into question how important Alexander Cartwright actually was in formulating the earliest rules of the official American game.<br /><br />The most fascinating part of Block's book is his delving into the early European origins of Baseball. Much of his research here is not original, but he does have some interesting original interpretations of the scant evidence that can be gleaned from these early references to games that seem to have a family resemblance to baseball. In his last chapter he presents a theoretical flowchart of baseball's evolution from the Medieval European ball game called Longball, complete with all the various ball games that seemed to influence it and branch off from it on its way to becoming our modern game of American Baseball.<br /><br />Block admits that his book is far from the last word on the subject, but hopes that it will reinvigorate fans interest in the often overlooked history of the game's origins. His extensive bibliography provides many clues for continued reading on the subject, though many of the cited sources are obviously rare and hard to find. `Baseball Before We Knew It' is a great contribution to the literature of the history of a game which is uniquely tied to the culture and history of the United States, and should be appreciated not only by the serious baseball fan, but by all of those with an interest in American cultural history.<br /><br />Theo Logos>Block admits that his book is far from the last word on the subject, but hopes that it will reinvigorate fans interest in the often overlooked history of the game's origins. His extensive bibliography provides many clues for continued reading on the subject, though many of the cited sources are obviously rare and hard to find. `Baseball Before We Knew It' is a great contribution to the literature of the history of a game which is uniquely tied to the culture and history of the United States, and should be appreciated not only by the serious baseball fan, but by all of those with an interest in American cultural history.  <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-08-27
US	47624974	R1LW0PHL98RF88	0871138859	17189283	The Old Ball Game: How John McGraw, Christy Mathewson, and the New York Giants Created Modern Baseball	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Pleasing Valentine & Fine Introduction	`The Old Ball Game' serves as a fine introduction to its subject, which is John McGraw, Christy Mathewson, the New York Giants, and to a much lesser extent their whole era of baseball. There is no new or groundbreaking material here for the fan that is already familiar with the subject, but for them it can still serve as a baseball valentine celebrating these heroes and their times. While the book stops far short of its sub title's claim - that McGraw, Mathewson, and the Giants created modern baseball, it does nicely illustrate their importance in the continuing evolution of the game.<br />A note on Deford's writing style is necessary. I heard him speaking about this book on NPR, and his oratory was beautifully captivating. He writes in much the same way that he speaks, but what works for him in his spoken word stories is not as effective in print - sometime his language gets in the way of the story rather than moving it along. It was enough of a problem for me to dock a star from my review rating, but I still found the book enjoyable.<br />If you are already knowledgeable on the subject of McGraw, his star pitcher, and his amazing team, you can take or leave this book depending on how you feel about baseball \\"valentines\\". If you are new to the subject, however, this is a fine place to start to whet your imagination and encourage you to learn more about these great stars and this fascinating era of baseball's history.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-08-22
US	47624974	R1SANIC691CLRU	0226852180	768145139	Veeck--As In Wreck: The Autobiography of Bill Veeck	Books	5	6	6	N	N	They broke the mold	They just don't make baseball owners like Bill Veeck anymore, and it is our loss. Maverick, visionary, and showman extraordinaire; Bill had a ball setting baseball's staid establishment on its ear with his unorthodox tactics, mischievous spirit, and wild promotions. He was an every-man who never lost the common touch, and believed that to be the secret of his success. His promotions and gimmicks bedeviled and enraged his fellow owners and the purists within the mort bound baseball establishment while they delighted the fans who Bill had a knack for attracting anywhere he went.<br /><br />In this fascinating, fun, romp of an autobiography, Veeck showed that his knack for telling stories was as well honed as his knack for whacky promotions. Working with the outstanding Ed Linn (who also co-wrote Leo Duroucher's autobiography `Nice Guys Finish Last') Veeck served up his life's tale one entertaining story after another. Whether writing about sending a midget to pinch hit in a ball game, planting the ivy in Wrigley Field as a young man, creating the first exploding scoreboard, creatively financing and finagling ownership deals, or feuding with fellow owners, Veeck's stories are hits, every one.<br /><br />If you love baseball, mavericks, or showmen, you can't go wrong with this one - highly recommended.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-08-20
US	47624974	R1M5GK57JJ9PVE	0738505315	179294294	Black  Baseball  in  Pittsburgh   (PA)   (Black  America)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Picturing Pittsburgh's Rich Baseball Heritage	Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania has had a rich baseball tradition for more than a century. The Pittsburgh Pirates were in the first World Series in 1903, and have won five since then, and have produced such Hall of Fame greats as Honus Wagner, Paul & Lloyd Waner, Pie Trayner, Ralph Kiner, Bill Mazeroski, Roberto Clemente, and Willie Stargell.<br /><br />Yet the Pirates are only part of the story of great baseball in Pittsburgh. In the years before Jackie Robinson broke baseball's infamous color line, two of the greatest teams to ever take the field, the Homestead Grays and the Pittsburgh Crawfords of the Negro Leagues played their exciting brand of baseball in the Steel City. Some of the most outstanding players ever to swing a bat or throw a ball played on those teams, including many Hall of Famers. Josh Gibson, Satchel Paige, Cool Papa Bell, Judy Johnson, Smokey Joe Williams, Willie Wells, and Buck Leonard are among the greats who played on these amazing teams. These men and their teams rivaled any of the great major league players and teams of their era, and they should never be forgotten.<br /><br />Black Baseball In Pittsburgh tells the story of these teams through pictures. It combines a brief introduction with nearly 200 pictures, each having extensive captions. Many of these photos were taken by the legendary \\"One Shot\\" Teenie Harris, a renowned photographer for the Pittsburgh Courier. Even though the book has very little text, it is a most attractive product, and a fitting remembrance for the legendary Black teams of Pittsburgh.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-08-09
US	47624974	R1J8HMP4OPHTGX	0700608206	275186270	Stonewall of the West: Patrick Cleburne and the Civil War (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A neglected hero gets his due	Had Patrick Cleburne fought in the Army of Northern Virginia instead of the Army of Tennessee, we surely would be overwhelmed with biographies of his greatness as a general. Because he was a general officer in the Army of Tennessee - the army most Southern writers have traditionally ignored and treated as the red headed step child of the Confederacy, there are far fewer books on him than his accomplishments would seem to warrant. Fortunately, Mr. Symonds has written an excellent biography of the general which puts his impressive accomplishments into perspective and begins to give this extraordinary fighting general his due.<br /><br />The main focus of Symonds' work is on Cleburne the general, but he gives enough background of his youth in Ireland and his migration to and adoption of America as his new home to sketch what shaped his character and what motivated him to fight in the Southern cause. Cleburne emerges as an immigrant eager to assimilate and make the customs and mores of his new home his own; a man grateful for the opportunities and acceptance he received in Arkansas, and genuinely, if uncritically, committed to fighting for the cause of his adopted home.<br /><br />Symonds also addresses Cleburne's role within the morass of intrigue that plagued the command structure of the Army of Tennessee. He shows Cleburne to have been one of the anti Bragg cartel, not as a primary mover, but because of his loyalty to his friend and mentor General Hardee (a principle Bragg opponent), and perhaps even more so because of his habit of candor that showed little regard for political expediency. This was damaging to his career, and perhaps among the principle reasons why he was never promoted above division commander, despite the fact that he was the brightest shining star in the army. He likewise touches on Cleburne's remarkable plan to enlist slaves in the Confederate army - offering freedom to any man and his family who would fight for the South. While Cleburne's reasoning showed clarity and logic, his judgment in presenting the plan to his fellow Southern officers showed amazing naivet&eacute; and foolhardiness, and further damaged his hopes for promotion.<br /><br />But the reason there is a biography of Cleburne is the battles. Symonds traces them from his first minor engagements, through Shiloh, his first major battle, all the way to the final tragic, futile charge at Franklin. He shows how Cleburne's skills as a general developed; from  simply a brave and bold leader without any great military skill at Shiloh, to an outstanding commander of men who creatively defended against overwhelming odds at Chattanooga, and became the armies designated rearguard, repeatedly saving it from destruction..<br /><br />Symonds biography of Cleburne is well written and engaging. It makes a good beginning in putting General Patrick Cleburne back into his rightful place in the pantheon of Southern heroes. If you are a serious student of the Civil War, you should not consider your library complete without a copy. I highly recommend it.<br /><br />Theo Logosclarity and logic, his judgment in presenting the plan to his fellow Southern officers showed amazing naivet and foolhardiness, and further damaged his hopes for promotion. <br />But the reason there is a biography of Cleburne is the battles. Symonds traces them from his first minor engagements, through Shiloh, his first major battle, all the way to the final tragic, futile charge at Franklin. He shows how Cleburne's skills as a general developed; from  simply a brave and bold leader without any great military skill at Shiloh, to an outstanding commander of men who creatively defended against overwhelming odds at Chattanooga, and became the armies designated rearguard, repeatedly saving it from destruction..  <br />Symonds biography of Cleburne is well written and engaging. It makes a good beginning in putting General Patrick Cleburne back into his rightful place in the pantheon of Southern heroes. If you are a serious student of the Civil War, you should not consider your library complete without a copy. I highly recommend it. <br /> <br />Theo Logos  <br />	2005-08-08
US	47624974	R1JEMGV4C8RP37	1931832587	142072602	The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance: And a Man Called Horse, the Hanging Tree, and Lost Sister	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Genius Rediscovered in New Publication	`The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance' is a republication of some of the best stories of Dorothy Johnson, America's most unrecognized genius of short fiction. Two of these four stories are taken from `Indian Country' (later published as `Man Called Horse'), a brilliant collection of Western tales that deserves to be back in print. Three of them were made into successful movies. All four of these tales show the mark of genius that was typical of Johnson's work.<br />Time Magazine compared Dorothy Johnson's work to Bret Harte and Mark Twain, and this was no hyperbole. As works of literature, her Western short stories are nearly without peer, and they are often better than many histories in accurately portraying the detail and nuance of Native, frontier, and Mountain Man cultures.<br />The first of the four stories in this volume, `A Man Called Horse', is a tale of a young man raised in a wealthy Eastern family who went West, was captured by Crow Indians, and spent several years living among them. It details the ways in which he changed to adapt and survive, and the lessons that he learned from the experience. This theme of whites living with Indians and the effect the dramatic change of culture could have was one of Johnson's favorites, and one she captured better in her writing than anyone else.  This story was made into a movie in 1970, starring Richard Harris.<br />In `The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance', we see another of Johnson's recurring themes - the less than noble truth that often was concealed by the heroic legends that grew out of the West. It is the story of a young greenhorn who rose to fame and fortune on the back of a legend that was a lie. This story was made into the classic 1962 movie, the last by the great director John Ford, and starred John Wayne and Jimmy Stewart.<br />`Lost Sister' returns to the theme of whites living among the Indians, but this time we see it from the perspective of a family being reunited with a sister who had lived as a native for thirty years after being captured as a child. Nowhere is the clash of cultures better shown than in this story of the painful attempt to re-integrate this family member who had gone completely native over the years, and who only desired to return to the life and place she knew as home.<br />The final story in this collection, `The Hanging Tree', is actually a novella. It is an expertly told tale of the tangled lives and fates of three people in a rough gold mining camp. It explores how those who went west often were cut completely loose from their past, freely re-invented themselves, and lived lives where the personal myths or nightmares that they created for themselves often had more power than reality. This story was made into the 1959 movie starring Gary Cooper (in his final role), Karl Malden, and a young George C. Scott.<br />Anyone with an interest in the American West should be thrilled by this collection and left hungry and searching for more of the brilliant writings of Dorothy Johnson. I give it my highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosfter being captured as a child. Nowhere is the clash of cultures better shown than in this story of the painful attempt to re-integrate this family member who had gone completely native over the years, and who only desired to return to the life and place she knew as home.  The final story in this collection, `The Hanging Tree', is actually a novella. It is an expertly told tale of the tangled lives and fates of three people in a rough gold mining camp. It explores how those who went west often were cut completely loose from their past, freely re-invented themselves, and lived lives where the personal myths or nightmares that they created for themselves often had more power than reality. This story was made into the 1959 movie starring Gary Cooper (in his final role), Karl Malden, and a young George C. Scott.  Anyone with an interest in the American West should be thrilled by this collection and left hungry and searching for more of the brilliant writings of Dorothy Johnson. I give it my highest recommendation.    Theo Logos	2005-08-05
US	47624974	R1YHTFIN6W7GPJ	0803275854	105356772	Indian Country	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Brilliant Fiction of the American West	Dorothy Johnson created what are perhaps the greatest short stories of the American West ever to be written. Her work has been compared by Time magazine to Mark Twain and Bret Harte. Her brilliant, spare style compares favorably to the best of Hemingway's short fiction. Three of her short stories were made into successful movies, one of which (The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance) is a Western classic. Yet instead of standing high in the pantheon of American writers she is all but forgotten, with much of her best work out of print and unavailable, as is the fate of this outstanding collection of tales, `Indian Country'.<br /><br />Johnson had many virtues as a writer. She researched her topic and got the details right. She had a spare style that used an economy of words to say exactly and only what needed to be said. While she avoided sentimentality, she cut straight and deep to the heart of the matter, always revealing the humanity in all of her characters and never treating them as clich&eacute;s. All of these virtues are prominently on display in this volume.<br /><br />The eleven tales in `Indian Country' represent some of Johnson's very best work. Two of these stories (The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and A Man Called Horse) were made into movie. All of them deal with the people and the reality behind the clich&eacute;s and the legends of the West. Five of these stories, (Flames on the Frontier, The Unbeliever, War Shirt, Journey to the Fort, and A Man Called Horse) deal with a subject that Dorothy Johnson may have captured better than any other writer - whites living among the Indians, either from choice, or as captives, and the effect this had on them, the Natives they lived with, and the families that they left behind. In The Prairie Kid and Beyond the Frontier, Johnson shows how incidents that might be spun into legend evolved from the simple toughness that was required for survival among frontier settlers. Scars of Honor and Laugh in the Face of Danger are tales of aged people who time has passed by but who still cherish secret memories from their Wild West youth. Warrior's Exile is built around a theme that is often prominent in Johnson's stories - the importance of an Indian's visions and medicine to his life and status within the tribe. And The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is the ultimate tale of the less than noble truth that could often lie behind the heroic legends that grew out of the West.<br /><br />Each of the eleven tales in `Indian Country' is brilliantly crafted, and several of them are simply unforgettable. This is a collection that you will come back to and read again many times. I consider this collection to be more valuable than are many histories of the American West for the information it contains on frontier and native cultures, and give it my very highest of recommendations; not only for those with an interest in the American West, but for all who appreciate beautifully written short stories.<br /><br />Theo Logosme has passed by but who still cherish secret memories from their Wild West youth. Warrior's Exile is built around a theme that is often prominent in Johnson's stories - the importance of an Indian's visions and medicine to his life and status within the tribe. And The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is the ultimate tale of the less than noble truth that could often lie behind the heroic legends that grew out of the West. <br />Each of the eleven tales in `Indian Country' is brilliantly crafted, and several of them are simply unforgettable. This is a collection that you will come back to and read again many times. I consider this collection to be more valuable than are many histories of the American West for the information it contains on frontier and native cultures, and give it my very highest of recommendations; not only for those with an interest in the American West, but for all who appreciate beautifully written short stories. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-08-05
US	47624974	R31W1MB259DNK9	0345290690	396412617	Man Called Horse (Originally: Indian Country)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Brilliant Fiction of the American West	Dorothy Johnson created what are perhaps the greatest short stories of the American West ever to be written. Her work has been compared by Time magazine to Mark Twain and Bret Harte. Her brilliant, spare style compares favorably to the best of Hemingway's short fiction. Three of her short stories were made into successful movies, one of which (The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance) is a Western classic. Yet instead of standing high in the pantheon of American writers she is all but forgotten, with much of her best work out of print and unavailable, as is the fate of this outstanding collection of tales, `Man Called Horse', (originally published as `Indian Country').<br /><br />Johnson had many virtues as a writer. She researched her topic and got the details right. She had a spare style that used an economy of words to say exactly and only what needed to be said. While she avoided sentimentality, she cut straight and deep to the heart of the matter, always revealing the humanity in all of her characters and never treating them as clich&eacute;s. All of these virtues are prominently on display in this volume.<br /><br />The eleven tales in `Man Called Horse' represent some of Johnson's very best work. Two of these stories (The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance and A Man Called Horse) were made into movie. All of them deal with the people and the reality behind the clich&eacute;s and the legends of the West. Five of these stories, (Flames on the Frontier, The Unbeliever, War Shirt, Journey to the Fort, and A Man Called Horse) deal with a subject that Dorothy Johnson may have captured better than any other writer - whites living among the Indians, either from choice, or as captives, and the effect this had on them, the Natives they lived with, and the families that they left behind. In The Prairie Kid and Beyond the Frontier, Johnson shows how incidents that might be spun into legend evolved from the simple toughness that was required for survival among frontier settlers. Scars of Honor and Laugh in the Face of Danger are tales of aged people who time has passed by but who still cherish secret memories from their Wild West youth. Warrior's Exile is built around a theme that is often prominent in Johnson's stories - the importance of an Indian's visions and medicine to his life and status within the tribe. And The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is the ultimate tale of the less than noble truth that could often lie behind the heroic legends that grew out of the West.<br /><br />Each of the eleven tales in `Man Called Horse' is brilliantly crafted, and several of them are simply unforgettable. This is a collection that you will come back to and read again many times. I consider this collection to be more valuable than are many histories of the American West for the information it contains on frontier and native cultures, and give it my very highest of recommendations; not only for those with an interest in the American West, but for all who appreciate beautifully written short stories.<br /><br />Theo Logosof Honor and Laugh in the Face of Danger are tales of aged people who time has passed by but who still cherish secret memories from their Wild West youth. Warrior's Exile is built around a theme that is often prominent in Johnson's stories - the importance of an Indian's visions and medicine to his life and status within the tribe. And The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance is the ultimate tale of the less than noble truth that could often lie behind the heroic legends that grew out of the West.<br /><br />Each of the eleven tales in `Man Called Horse' is brilliantly crafted, and several of them are simply unforgettable. This is a collection that you will come back to and read again many times. I consider this collection to be more valuable than are many histories of the American West for the information it contains on frontier and native cultures, and give it my very highest of recommendations; not only for those with an interest in the American West, but for all who appreciate beautifully written short stories.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-08-05
US	47624974	R26ZSBXZB76NIR	0375411887	304654150	John Brown, Abolitionist: The Man Who Killed Slavery, Sparked the Civil War, and Seeded Civil Rights	Books	5	79	88	N	N	"I have only one death to die, & I will die fighting for this cause"	John Brown is an American enigma. His life presents a serious challenge to a simple black and white interpretation of ethics, history, and by extrapolation, even current events. He was a man a hundred years ahead of his time in racial ethics - not only opposed to slavery, but unlike almost all other abolitionist of his time, actually a believer in the equality of the races. He was praised honestly by Ralph Waldo Emerson, who wrote of him that he \\"believed in two articles - the golden rule and the Declaration of Independence.\\" Another contemporary, the black reformer Charles H. Langston praised him saying, \\"he was a lover of mankind - not of any particular class or color, but of all men...he fully, really and actively believed in the equality and brotherhood of man. ...He is the only American citizen who has lived fully up to the Declaration of Independence.\\" Yet this man who was so dedicated to racial justice was able to direct the cold blooded murders of five pro-slavery men in Kansas who he had ripped from their families in the middle of the night and hacked to death with broadswords without any qualms or regrets. He chillingly stated that \\"it is better that a whole generation of men, women, and children should be swept away than that this crime of slavery should exist one day longer.\\" Brown's life presents an open question on what if any limits should stand in the way of those attempting to right great societal wrongs and bring about justice. David Reynolds biography may not fully answer that question, but it goes a long way toward putting it into a proper perspective.<br /><br />Reynolds' biography of Brown is both detailed and fascinating, and is sympathetic without attempting to hide the dark and troubling aspects of Brown's actions. He delves deeply into Brown's Puritan heritage and just what that meant to his life and actions. He makes clear what a unique individual Brown was. While most of the famous abolitionist who were his contemporaries never questioned the basic racism of their time despite their opposition to slavery, Brown believed firmly in racial equality. Black men and women dined with his family, and he worked intimately with them, giving them real positions of authority in the endeavors that he organized - actions unique for his time. Reynolds also explores the fact that Brown was in favor of equal rights for women and humane treatment of American Indians. He notes that while he was a fervently committed Calvinist Christian, he worked closely with others who did not share his faith, including Jews and agnostics. He shows us a man who was not a typical fanatic, but a man who believed fanatically in one basic principle - the literal interpretation of the Declaration of Independence and the Golden Rule. Reynolds also puts Brown's most troubling violence, the murders at Pottawatomie, Kansas, back into the historical context in which they happened. He writes, \\"Pottawatomie, gruesome and vile as it was, was John Brown's impulsive response to equally vile crimes committed by the proslavery side.\\"<br /><br />Beyond all of this, Reynolds explores in some depth the importance that the Transcendentalists had in securing John Brown's place in American history. He points out that had not Thoreau and afterwards Emerson come to Brown's public defense, Brown very well could have been forgotten by history - viewed as just one more aberrant crank with misguided and wild schemes. He spends more than one hundred pages exploring the effect Browns actions, capture, and death had on both his contemporaries and on posterity, showing the immediate impact Brown's life and death had on the country in helping to spark the Civil War, and the way it impacted future generations who have both lauded and reviled him.<br /><br />John Brown's life is a testimony to one man's uncompromising commitment to his ideals, and to the ethical morass that can result from an unrelenting pursuit of those ideals. It makes us question how far one can justifiably go in an attempt to right societal wrongs, and if violence can ever be considered a righteous answer to entrenched evil. Reynolds' book may not answer all of these questions, but it most effectively poses them for our consideration. It is an outstanding biography of a crucially important figure in American history. I highly recommend it, both to those interested in American history, and for anyone who wishes to examine a practical study of the consequence of principled violent action against authority.<br /><br />Theo Logosan attempt to right societal wrongs, and if violence can ever be considered a righteous answer to entrenched evil. Reynolds' book may not answer all of these questions, but it most effectively poses them for our consideration. It is an outstanding biography of a crucially important figure in American history. I highly recommend it, both to those interested in American history, and for anyone who wishes to examine a practical study of the consequence of principled violent action against authority. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-07-20
US	47624974	R1EPV8J0D1OCT2	0679735429	76659216	Shiloh: A Novel	Books	4	45	46	N	N	Neither Gods nor Generals	The essence of Shelby Foote's book Shiloh is summed up by one of his narrators, Corporal Blake, who speaking to the men in his squad says,\\"books about war were written to be read by God Almighty, because no one but God ever saw it that way. A book about war, to be read by men, ought to tell what each of the twelve of us saw in our own little corner. Then it would be the way it was - not to God but to us.\\" Shiloh is definitely a \\"man's-eye\\" view of the battle - every chapter consisting of first person accounts from various narrators, Union and Confederate, telling only of what transpires in their own little corner. This proves to be an effective device for dramatically portraying the battle as it was experienced by those who fought it rather than giving the perspective of the historians who study it.<br /><br />Foote avoids not only the omniscient perspective, but that of the commanders as well; equally rejecting God and generals in telling his tale. The narrators that Foote uses in his story are the young men who fought the battle. They are all either common soldiers or young junior officers with no voice in the planning of strategy or authority to direct its execution.<br /><br />Because of Foote's choice of narrators, it proved difficult to include certain background information about the commanders of the armies that fought the battle. Rather than leave this information out, Foote included it in expositional passages that sounded forced and awkward coming from his young narrators. This is the only flaw in an otherwise outstanding \\"boots on the ground\\" tale of war, and is easy to forgive when balanced against the books many virtues.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-07-16
US	47624974	R2XX53QFYK4ACK	031286518X	502372960	Moonlight and Vines: A Newford Collection	Books	3	21	27	N	N	Walking Wounded	The short stories in Charles de Lint's `Moonlight & Vine aren't really fantasies per se - rather they are tales of wounded people - mostly women, who are lonely, despairing, lacking self worth or confidence, unable to maintain healthy relationships, sexually confused, and carrying around old hurts from abusive fathers, departed lovers, and totally dysfunctional families. These people don't take their problems to therapist. Instead, they work them out through encounters with ghosts, vampires, guardian angels, and various spirits and creatures from the spirit world of faerie.<br />I first encountered Charles de Lint twenty-one years ago when I read his excellent novel `Moonheart'. His unique style of urban fantasy and mixture of old and new world mythologies intrigued me and drew me into his work. Over time, however, his writing concentrated less on the elements that drew me to him, and more on the themes of wounded people working out their recovery through his fantastic world of faerie. While I'm sure there must be a market for this type of writing, it holds no appeal for me. I stopped reading him for a long time, but this past month I decided to give him another try to see if perhaps he had returned to his old magic. Unfortunately, the answer was no. In `Moonlight & Vines' he has given over almost entirely to writing about the walking wounded - emotionally crippled characters. The fantasy elements that are present are so peripheral to these stories that it could almost be removed entirely without significantly changing them.<br />I believe that De Lint has discovered a niche market with these psychological tales of women wounded from sexual and physical abuse working out their healing and that he now caters to it almost exclusively. In `Moonlight & Vine\\" he includes a strong current of lesbianism - usually women discovering that they can make connections with other women rather than with men who have always abused them; this appears to play to the same audience. He writes well enough, and if you are drawn to the subject matter, you should enjoy his work. If, however, like me, you find the whole thing rather dreary, you will want to avoid `Moonlight & Vines'. De Lint has come a long way from his outstanding novel `Moonheart', and the magic that vibrated through it is only a distant echo, almost lost within the psychodrama of this collection of tales.<br /><br />Theo Logoswell enough, and if you are drawn to the subject matter, you should enjoy his work. If, however, like me, you find the whole thing rather dreary, you will want to avoid `Moonlight & Vines'. De Lint has come a long way from his outstanding novel `Moonheart', and the magic that vibrated through it is only a distant echo, almost lost within the psychodrama of this collection of tales.     Theo Logos	2005-06-27
US	47624974	RV4DB6LI8OWSM	0252062299	330824329	No Better Place to Die: The Battle of Stones River (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Detailed study of a crucial yet neglected battle	Few major battles of the Civil War have been more neglected than Stones River. It was among the bloodiest battles of the war, and started a ripple effect that would end with the defeat of the South, yet there are less than half a dozen books on it, and only the most devoted students of the war know much of anything about it. Peter Cozzens' book, `No Better Place to Die', is perhaps the best single book detailing and explaining the significance of this nearly forgotten battle.<br />December of 1862 had been a very bad month for the Union. General Burnsides and the Army of the Potomac had been horribly defeated at the Battle of Fredericksburg, and Grant and Sherman had been stopped cold in their attempt to take Vicksburg. The Union badly needed a victory, and another defeat could have been disastrous. Stones River was fought between the Union's Army of the Cumberland and the Confederate's Army of Tennessee over three days; from New Years Eve 1862 till January 2, 1863. Though the battle was considered by many to be a tactical draw, and both sides claimed victory, General Bragg and his Army of Tennessee retreated, conceding middle Tennessee to The Army of the Cumberland and the Union, and setting the stage for opening up the back door to the heart of the Confederacy. Though many today have forgotten the significance of this battle, its importance was not lost on President Lincoln, who after the battle wrote to General Rosecrans, commander of the Union forces at Stones River, \\"I can never forget whilst I remember anything, that... you gave us a hard-earned victory, which had there been a defeat instead, the Nation could scarcely have lived over.\\"<br />Cozzens is no great wordsmith, but his research is meticulous and his detail is exacting. `No Better Place to Die' is not so dry as the  previous book of his that I have read, perhaps because though detailed, it is still a short book (just over 200 pages), and because he uses many interesting quotes from participants in the battle that add the color that his own words lack. It is, in my opinion, the best, clearest, and most detailed book on this important battle, and anyone who wants to seriously study the Civil War and understand how it was won in the western theater can ill afford to miss it.<br /><br />Theo Logosthat add the color that his own words lack. It is, in my opinion, the best, clearest, and most detailed book on this important battle, and anyone who wants to seriously study the Civil War and understand how it was won in the western theater can ill afford to miss it.     Theo Logos	2005-06-27
US	47624974	R12D3YXUFLH6CZ	038079215X	992421771	Slouching Toward Fargo:: A Two-Year Saga Of Sinners And St. Paul Saints At The Bottom Of The Bush Leagues With Bill Murray, Darryl Strawberry, Dakota Sadie And Me	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Diamond in the Rough	`Slouching Toward Fargo' could well turn the phrase \\"bush league\\" from a term of derision into a complement. Free lance writer Neal Karlen spent two years following the Saint Paul Saints, a team on the bottom rung of the bush leagues, and discovered a place where baseball is still fun; a place far enough away from the big corporate business that the major leagues have become that players and fans still remember what the game is all about. Here, outrageous stunts and promotions amuse enthusiastic fans, while the last-chance ballplayers play the game with great passion if not always great talent.<br />Karlen started following the Saints on an assignment from Rolling Stone. Jan Wenner, Rolling Stone's publisher and founding editor had a grudge against actor Bill Murray, one of the Saint's owners, and wanted a hatchet job article to run on him and his ball team.  Karlen, who had worked for the magazine in the past and was no stranger to hatchet job journalism, was promised a handsome fee to deliver Murray and his team carved on a platter.<br />Despite the worst of intentions, Karlen was infected by the Saints and their ethos of fun and healing through the power of baseball. That philosophy had a positive effect on everyone, from owners Bill Murray (funny man actor and abdicated Hollywood superstar) and Mike Veeck (son of baseball legend Bill Veeck and banished from the major leagues because of his disastrous 1979 Disco Night promotion in Chicago) to onetime superstar Darryl Strawberry making a last ditch effort to return to major league glory, down through the no name guys who were fighting for their last chance to be professional ballplayers. It took hold of Karlen as well; he cancelled the hatchet job story, and instead wrote this book celebrating the fun and joy of baseball.<br />Karlen's writing is closer to utility infielder quality than superstar slugger, but a utility infielder having a very good game. It would have been hard to make an error with a story this rich. The drama includes the blackballed Darryl Strawberry magnificently working his way back to the major leagues and World Series glory, the first female to pitch in a professional men's league, a legless second baseman, a blind radio color anouncer, two managers sumo wrestling on the diamond after being thrown out of the game by the umpires, a pig who brings balls to the umpires, and the ghost of the outrageous Bill Veeck, present through his ashes in a coffee can and reaching out from beyond the grave to continue his unique brand of whacky baseball fun. Karlen didn't have to be a slugger to hit a home run on this story; he just had to swing the bat, and despite some sloppy editting, his story scores.<br />If you love the game of baseball, then this book is a must read. If you once loved the game, but have lost your passion for it and become cynical because of the corporate farce that the major leagues have become, then read this book to remember why you fell in love in the first place.<br /><br />Theo Logosa includes the blackballed Darryl Strawberry magnificently working his way back to the major leagues and World Series glory, the first female to pitch in a professional men's league, a legless second baseman, a blind radio color anouncer, two managers sumo wrestling on the diamond after being thrown out of the game by the umpires, a pig who brings balls to the umpires, and the ghost of the outrageous Bill Veeck, present through his ashes in a coffee can and reaching out from beyond the grave to continue his unique brand of whacky baseball fun. Karlen didn't have to be a slugger to hit a home run on this story; he just had to swing the bat, and despite some sloppy editting, his story scores.  If you love the game of baseball, then this book is a must read. If you once loved the game, but have lost your passion for it and become cynical because of the corporate farce that the major leagues have become, then read this book to remember why you fell in love in the first place.    Theo Logos	2005-06-17
US	47624974	RK0QQLA47G9EJ	1886609012	709860045	Give Your Heart to the Hawks: A Tribute to the Mountain Men	Books	4	61	62	N	N	The Alumni of Rocky Mountain College	Winfred Blevins' `Give Your Heart to the Hawks' is exactly what its sub title claims - a tribute to the Mountain Men. It is neither a historical novel nor a pure history. Rather, it is accurate history, albeit with Blevins' interpretation of the thoughts and emotions that the mountain men were experiencing during some of their most dangerous and daring exploits added.  This technique removes the book from the roles of strict history, but works well in creating the tribute that the author intended, for his goal was not simply to chronicle the bones of their history, but to bring to life their wild and free existence and allow the reader to enter into the spirit of the mountain man's life.<br />Blevins does not attempt a comprehensive account of the mountain men. Some are covered extensively, like John Colter, the prototype mountain man, Jim Bridger, and Jed Smith, the most atypical and perhaps greatest of the mountain men. Others, like Old Bill Williams, Joe Walker, and Kit Carson are barely covered or mentioned only in passing. Blevins does not cover the mountain men of the southwest at all. Instead, he illuminates his chosen subjects in depth, choosing to fully explore the life that the mountain men lived rather than broadly covering the entire scope of their collective history.<br />To recreate the wild drama of the mountain man's life, Blevins tells some of the most thrilling tales of the era, like John Colter's desperate naked run from Indian braves pursuing him for sport, Hugh Glass' amazing solo trek through 300 miles of wilderness without weapons or any tools for survival after being left for dead when mauled by a grizzly, or Jed Smith's daring crossings of the desert and mountains to find a land route to California. He writes of these men, \\"Any man who survived for several years as a trapper, taking responsibility for his own survival alone in the wilds, had been schooled thoroughly by the Rocky Mountains. ...He had graduated from Rocky Mountain College, a pragmatic university that gave no degrees, but flunked men into their graves.\\" Between the various stories of specific mountain men, he includes interludes that detail important aspects of their life and trade - trapping, yarning, rendezvous, buffalo - cuisine premiere, mountain craft, mountain mating, and trappers and Indians are a few of the interesting subjects of mountain life dealt with in these interludes. He also includes a few colorful accounts written by the rare, literate mountain man detailing their unique life. He succeeds admirably in breathing life into this too often neglected period of amazing individuals who blazed the way for the westward expansion of the American nation.<br />While Blevins' writing is not always stellar, he manages to create an effective and stirring tribute to the wild individuals who chose to live free in the Rocky Mountains. No one who is interested in the period should miss it. Both students of the period of the mountain men and fur trade and those looking for a good introduction to the subject will find `Give Your Heart to the Hawks' a fascinating and rewarding reading experience.<br /><br />Theo Logosc university that gave no degrees, but flunked men into their graves.\\" Between the various stories of specific mountain men, he includes interludes that detail important aspects of their life and trade - trapping, yarning, rendezvous, buffalo - cuisine premiere, mountain craft, mountain mating, and trappers and Indians are a few of the interesting subjects of mountain life dealt with in these interludes. He also includes a few colorful accounts written by the rare, literate mountain man detailing their unique life. He succeeds admirably in breathing life into this too often neglected period of amazing individuals who blazed the way for the westward expansion of the American nation.   While Blevins' writing is not always stellar, he manages to create an effective and stirring tribute to the wild individuals who chose to live free in the Rocky Mountains. No one who is interested in the period should miss it. Both students of the period of the mountain men and fur trade and those looking for a good introduction to the subject will find `Give Your Heart to the Hawks' a fascinating and rewarding reading experience.    Theo Logos	2005-06-17
US	47624974	RBV7RSP736IYJ	0765302969	681332939	Trader (Newford)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Urban Fantasy Soap Opera	The fictional city of Newford, Canada is the world's capital of dark-edged urban fantasy thanks to the writing talents of Charles De Lint. With a cast of repeating characters and many odd intersections with an other-world of spirits and culturally diverse mythologies, it is without a doubt the most fully realized setting for this interesting sub-genre of fantasy. De Lint returns to it once again with `Trader', the story of unassuming, middle aged Max Trader, who wakes one morning to discover that he is inexplicably trapped inside the body and life of an unlikable and down on his luck looser, while the previous owner of the body now inhabits his body and comfortable if dull life. The story revolves around Max's attempt to get his life and body back, and the effect that this has on the people who had known both men. And of course, as this is a Charles De Lint book, the quest takes him into the odd and dangerous spirit realm, that is always lurking just a half step off from Newford's daily reality.<br />De Lint writes well, and perhaps has no peer in the creative ways that he explores the possibilities of urban fantasy. Unfortunately, I find a major drawback in most of his novels that significantly undermines my enjoyment of his work. That flaw is his tendency to mix his often dark edged fantasy with plots that are equal parts soap opera and after school special. In `Trader', as in many of his books, much space is taken up by teenage girls dealing with communication problems and being misunderstood and young women endlessly struggling with relationship problems as convoluted and banal as any you will find on afternoon soaps. I realize that this is a matter of taste, and that there must be a major market for this type of writing, but I find it unfortunate that I have to wade through (and often simply skim over) long soap opera like sections that have little to do with the cutting edge dark fantasy that draws me to his work. If it were not for his inventiveness with mixing cultural mythologies and the creatively dark ways that he blends them into his urban settings I would never put up with the sappy characters who must always be examining their bad choices in boyfriends, lack of self worth, and need to fully realize how they are important for themselves and not just for who they are with.<br />De Lint is a fine writer, and if you don't mind the soap opera angst of his characters, you will certainly enjoy `Trader' and most of his other work as well. If, however, like me, you are put off by it, you might first want to read his excellent collection of short stories `Dreams Underfoot' or his much earlier novel `Moonheart', both being less effected by soapy character development. Once you have entered into De Lint's fascinating world from those portals, you may be better able to put up with the less fortunate aspects of his writing that are so evident in `Trader'.<br /><br />Theo Logosultural mythologies and the creatively dark ways that he blends them into his urban settings I would never put up with the sappy characters who must always be examining their bad choices in boyfriends, lack of self worth, and need to fully realize how they are important for themselves and not just for who they are with.  De Lint is a fine writer, and if you don't mind the soap opera angst of his characters, you will certainly enjoy `Trader' and most of his other work as well. If, however, like me, you are put off by it, you might first want to read his excellent collection of short stories `Dreams Underfoot' or his much earlier novel `Moonheart', both being less effected by soapy character development. Once you have entered into De Lint's fascinating world from those portals, you may be better able to put up with the less fortunate aspects of his writing that are so evident in `Trader'.    Theo Logos	2005-06-17
US	47624974	R3OODA1D0ZV2OA	0441012477	27038846	Silverlock	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A Hidden Masterpiece deserving a Galaxy of Stars	Upon reading 'Silverlock' for the first time, expect to experience the sense of awe and wonder that explorers feel when first discovering  strange and wonderful new lands. 'Silverlock is a hidden classic, on par with Tolkien in quality, yet utterly unique. For readers who enjoy fantasy but have become weary of the genre's cliches and vast quantity of derivitive material, 'Silverlock' is Eldorado.<br />'Silverlock' is a masterpiece that works on several levels. It is a first rate adventure yarn, following the misadventures of the title character from his ship wreck in unknown waters through many close scrapes, battles, drinking bouts, and wenchings in the enchanted realm of the Commonwealth of Letters. It is also a clever allegory, following the development of Silverlock as he changes from a cold cynic with no knowledge or respect for the world of literature, to an enthusiastic aspirant maker of tales. And finally, it is an incredible literary game. Every person, place, and thing in Silverlock, outside of the protagonist is lifted from the vast range of literature and myth, from Gilgamesh to Mark Twain, and the challenge to identify these tantalizing references proves irresistable to most readers.<br />These literary references and the way Silverlock interacts with them create the book's unique magic. A typical series of scenes finds Silverlock emerging from the forest where the night before he has been the guest of Robin Hood and his merry band; stopping at a tavern and lunching with the Mad Hatter and his party, and pushing on for an evening feast at Heorot Hall, where the revelers are celebrating the death of Grendel by recounting the tale of the Alamo in Norse verse. All this and more in but one chapter.<br /><br />'Silverlock' is a book you will come back to many times. You may also find yourself enthusiastically pushing it on friends, as once you fall under its spell you will want to share the magic. So be smart and buy two copies - if you loan yours out, it might not come back. I give 'Silverlock' my very highest of recommendations.<br /><br />Theo Logosack. I give 'Silverlock' my very highest of recommendations.    Theo Logos	2005-06-03
US	47624974	R1HDR8AHEKU7RX	0785723374	480128821	Johnny Appleseed	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Cherished Legend told with Beautiful Simplicity	The story of Johnny Appleseed has long been a favorite, cherished legend of the American frontier for generations of young children, and this magical collaboration between poet Lindbergh and illustrator Jakobsen is a sweet and simple way to introduce it. Both poem and illustrations are beautifully simple, lacking all artiface, and are thus wonderfully appropriate for descibing a legend famous for those same qualities.<br />Lindbergh's poem tells Johnny Appleseed's story through the perspective of one woman who observed his odd career over the course of her lifetime. \\"She saw him first\\", so the poem goes, when she was just a little girl and he visited her familie's frontier cabin in the woods. All her life, as she grew and with her the country, turning from rough frontier into settled lands, she heard the tales of Johnny's journeys as civilization's ambassador as he spread his gift of apple trees. \\"She saw him last\\" as well, when as an old woman she welcomed the aged Johnny at her neat little farm house surounded by apple trees. And she kept alive his legend when he was gone, by telling his stories to her grandchildren every year at apple harvest time.<br />Kathy Jakobsen's wonderful folk art illustrations are the perfect fit for this tale. Her pictures are simple, almost child-like; bursting with vivid color and full of creative energy. There is a full page illustration across from each page of text, which in turn is boardered with illustrations of scenes from Johnny's story. In addition, there are two double paged illustrations; one showing settlers moving into the wild frontier, and the other showing that same land as tamed and settled country, full of apple trees. Jakobsen's brilliant folk art illustrations are what sets this book appart as something truly special, and are the reason that I bought the book.<br />The final page of the book gives a brief history of John Chapman - the man behind the legend of Johnny Appleseed, nicely ballancing history and legend.<br />If you have cherished this gentle legend and wish to introduce it to your children, this book perfectly fills the bill.<br /><br />Theo Logoscherished this gentle legend and wish to introduce it to your children, this book perfectly fills the bill.     Theo Logos	2005-06-01
US	47624974	R17FZUEXQ5J0FA	0892047143	471851967	Roadside Baseball : Uncovering hidden treasures from our national pastime	Books	5	12	12	N	N	America's Pastime - On the Road	Nothing is more quintessentially symbolic of America than baseball and road trips, and Chris Epting has brought the two together in this delightfully quirky road guide to all things baseball throughout the land. The book is divided first into sections (East, South, Midwest, West, & Outside the Lines),and further divided into states, listed alphebetically, within each section to make it convienent to use as you travel. And even the most knowledgable and die-hard baseball fan is likely to discover events and places within its covers to surprise and delight them.<br />While 'Roadside Baseball' can direct you to well known present and former shrines of baseball (Wrigley Field; the Ebbets Field apartments with its cornerstone marker commemorating the Dodger's old home field on that site), it is the many lesser known and often quirky places it discovers that really gives it its charm. Epting has discovered roadside markers, plaques, statues, memorials, and museums all over the country dedicated to baseball players, stadiums, and history. Some are charmingly kitchy, like the bed and breakfast in New Hampshire once owned by Babe Ruth's daughter, in which room #2 where the Babe often stayed has been maintained with all of its original furnishings. Others tie baseball history to the history of America, like the marker in Postville, Illinois marking the location of a field where Abe Lincoln played townball, an early form of baseball. And some mark arcane baseball history, like DeVault Memorial Stadium in Bristol, Virginia, where minor leagure Ron Necciai (a pitcher once deemed by Branch Rickey to be of the same quality as Dizzy Dean) once threw a 27 strikeout game, before disappearing into obscurity.<br />It was seeing many of the references that I know from my own experience that proved to me how comprehensive this book truly is. As a Pittsburgher, I was pleased to see not only the outfield wall and preserved homeplate of Forbes Field listed, but the roadside plaque in nearby Homestead that commemorates the great Negro League team the Homestead Grays. I also found here the tiny church yard in rural Ohio where Cy Young lies buried directly behind the grave of my great grandfather, who was his neighbor; a surprise find I had made years earlier while working on my genealogy. Very little seems to have escaped Mr. Epting when he compiled this wonderful little book.<br />If you love baseball, road trips, and Americana at its best, you can't afford to miss this outstanding guide to all three.<br /><br />Theo Logosead that commemorates the great Negro League team the Homestead Grays. I also found here the tiny church yard in rural Ohio where Cy Young lies buried directly behind the grave of my great grandfather, who was his neighbor; a surprise find I had made years earlier while working on my genealogy. Very little seems to have escaped Mr. Epting when he compiled this wonderful little book.  If you love baseball, road trips, and Americana at its best, you can't afford to miss this outstanding guide to all three.    Theo Logos	2005-06-01
US	47624974	R35SZUMF4NTIAK	0061020648	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dragons, Drunkards, and the Paths to Power	A foul and eldritch plot is afoot in Anhk-Morpork! A clever hidden hand is attempting a coup d'etat against the Patrician, manipulating disgruntled secret societies, stolen magic, and popular opinion to replace him with a figure head king who will front the hidden power behind the throne. The plotter summons a great dragon (long believed extinct) in an attempt to control it to create a panicked situation in the city where the sham king can ride in to save the day, and thus be swept into power by popular acclaim, replacing the discredited Patrician.  Once loosed, however, the dragon demonstrates that it has its own agenda, and the situation rapidly spirals out of control. Scariest of all, only the beleaguered Captain Sam Vimes and the ranks of his pathetic, despised, and largely ineffectual Night Watch can save the city from its doom.<br />Thus begins another Discworld adventure, as Terry Pratchett once again uses his wickedly sharp wit and insight to skewer real world foibles and pretensions with the mirror of his fantasy world. This time around he targets the myriad ways in which public opinion and action is manipulated by those in power, those seeking power, and those resisting power. We grin as he shows us the plotter manipulating the petty jealousies of small men into the service of his cause, all the while making them feel that they are great men serving noble ends. We chuckle knowingly as we see the crowds of Anhk-Morpork easily swayed by staged events and spectacle, jumping herd-like onto the monarchy band wagon. And we fall apart in stitches as he shows us the absurdity of sloganeering resistance to real, ruthless power (chanting \\"The people united will never be ignited!\\" to a dragon). Along the way, he makes us smile as Cut-Me-Own-Throat Dibbler shows how certain commercial interest don't give a wit for who is in power so long as they can still make a buck, and Lady Ramkin illustrates the peculiar tendency of the aristocracy to immerse and lose themselves within a world they create out of odd hobbies and odder causes.<br />Pratchett is at his most insightful when creating the dynamic tension between Sam Vimes, Captain of the Watch, and the Patrician, ruler of the city. Vimes is a good man, who wants to make the world (or at least his city) a good place, but despairs at his lack of power to accomplish that goal, and is often driven to the bottle by that despair. The Patrician is a clever man who has gained power through shrewdly manipulating the world as he finds it, using a practical cynicism about the nature of how things are in order to make his city work rather than making it good. In `Guards! Guards!', Pratchett shows us how these two men sometimes need each other, illustrating the value of both attitudes and approaches, depending on the circumstances.<br />`Guards! Guards!' is among the best of Pratchett's Discworld series that I have yet read. The characters he creates or revisits here are outstandingly well done and memorable. Also, he begins to come into his matured voice here, as he shifts from the light lampooning he used in previous Discworld books into a fully fledged satirical style that may be the sharpest and funniest we have seen since Swift. If you have not yet been introduced to Pratchett's Discworld, this is a fine place to begin, and if you are already a fan, you must not miss this one!<br /><br />Theo Logosn a world they create out of odd hobbies and odder causes.   Pratchett is at his most insightful when creating the dynamic tension between Sam Vimes, Captain of the Watch, and the Patrician, ruler of the city. Vimes is a good man, who wants to make the world (or at least his city) a good place, but despairs at his lack of power to accomplish that goal, and is often driven to the bottle by that despair. The Patrician is a clever man who has gained power through shrewdly manipulating the world as he finds it, using a practical cynicism about the nature of how things are in order to make his city work rather than making it good. In `Guards! Guards!', Pratchett shows us how these two men sometimes need each other, illustrating the value of both attitudes and approaches, depending on the circumstances.  `Guards! Guards!' is among the best of Pratchett's Discworld series that I have yet read. The characters he creates or revisits here are outstandingly well done and memorable. Also, he begins to come into his matured voice here, as he shifts from the light lampooning he used in previous Discworld books into a fully fledged satirical style that may be the sharpest and funniest we have seen since Swift. If you have not yet been introduced to Pratchett's Discworld, this is a fine place to begin, and if you are already a fan, you must not miss this one!    Theo Logos	2005-05-30
US	47624974	R1FCAEAUMY9U1K	0061020664	260706411	Wyrd Sisters	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"When shall we three meet again?"	No subject is too sacred for Terry Pratchett's lampooning pen, as even the sublime plays of Bard Billy become fodder for his stinging hilarity in `Wyrd Sisters'. Three witches gather on a blasted moor; the ghost of a king, foully murdered, seeking vengeance against his usurper; the murderer vainly trying to wash the blood and guilt from his hands; these are but a few of the elements Pratchett commandeers as he cannibalizes Macbeth, Hamlet, Richard III, Henry IV, Romeo and Juliet, and other great works of Shakespeare in this madcap novel.<br /><br />When King Verence of Lancre is murdered by a usurping kinsman, the whole kingdom is dangerously unbalanced. The usurper despises his new kingdom, and as Lancre lies in the magic rich Ramtop Mountains, even the trees, stones, and animal can sense this, causing a dangerous build up of negative magic power. It falls to the kingdom's three witches to rescue the young heir and find a way to return him to his father's throne before the kingdom is irretrievably ruined.<br /><br />`Wyrd Sisters' is overwhelmingly character driven, as the paper thin plot is little more than an excuse to allow three amazing witches to romp across its pages. Elder witches Granny Weatherwax - no nonsense, stern, and stubborn, and Nanny Ogg - bawdy sot, and matriarch to a huge tribe, bicker and banter across the pages with junior witch Magrat Garlick , who seems to have learned her witchcraft from a new age bookstore. All three are wonderfully drawn characters, and as they play off of each other they range anywhere between three oracles and the Three Stooges. With characters this strong, Pratchett could almost have dispensed with plot altogether.<br /><br />As he has developed Discworld over the years, Pratchett has become something of a Voltaire - making us laugh as he makes us think. In `Wyrd Sisters', there are hints of this, but it is not yet clearly focused, and we see far more parody than we do philosophy. Still, he has here some nice riffs on the meaning of destiny, and some hilarious bits about the power of words, double speak, and political propaganda. And his savage and constant lampooning of new age witchcraft is right on the money, and left me howling with laughter.<br /><br />On the strength of its wonderful witches, `Wyrd Sisters' is one of Pratchett's best efforts, and a must read for any fan of Discworld. I highly recommend it.<br /><br />Theo Logosdestiny, and some hilarious bits about the power of words, double speak, and political propaganda. And his savage and constant lampooning of new age witchcraft is right on the money, and left me howling with laughter. <br />On the strength of its wonderful witches, `Wyrd Sisters' is one of Pratchett's best efforts, and a must read for any fan of Discworld. I highly recommend it. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-05-15
US	47624974	R9ZWYKWLLOP1C	1569473552	761335499	Bright Starry Banner: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Campaign history come vividly to life as a novel	With `Bright Starry Banner', Alden R. Carter has accomplished a rather remarkable feat - he has written a historical novel about a major battle of the American Civil War that has all the detail and accuracy of a first rate campaign history, yet all the drama, suspense, and human emotion of a compelling novel. With his painstaking attention to maneuvers, tactics, regimental names, casualties - all the details great and small of a major military engagement - `Bright Starry Banner' contains all the elements of a top notch battle history, save for the maps. Yet by showing us the progress of the battle through the multiple perspectives of many of the men who fought on both sides; from the commanders of the army, down through division and brigade commanders, junior officers, and the fighting men, he humanized and personalized the conflict; making it a real swirling drama of ambition, terror, honor, bravery, cowardice, foolishness and farce.<br />The Battle of Stones River was fought between the Union Army of the Cumberland and the Confederate Army of Tennessee over three days - December 31, 1862 through January 2, 1863, near Murfreesboro, Tennessee. It was one of the great, bloody battles of the Civil War, but like most of the battles fought in the western theater of that war, is not nearly as well known as those that happened in the east. This is largely because the conventions of Civil War writing were originally created by Southerners in tribute to the cult of the Lost Cause. The great Southern victories and the Southern hero-saints like Lee and Jackson were all in the east, so naturally this is where they focused their literary attention. By the time Northerners began writing of the Civil War in earnest, they just fell in step with this established trend; this despite the fact that the Civil War was won (or lost, depending on your perspective) in the west. That Carter has written a novel of this great but neglected battle rather than serving up a version of one of the endlessly rehashed eastern battles between The Army of Northern Virginia and the Union's Army of the Potomac is a testament to the power of his historical insight, and the freshness of his creative ability.<br />The officers that Carter uses in his novel are historical rather than fictional constructs.  Generals Rosecrans, Thomas, Sheridan, Bragg, Hardee, Polk, and Cleburne, as well as Ambrose Bierce are all names familiar to me through my reading of histories, and I was amazed at how well Carter projected out from the available facts of the historical record to bring these men vividly to life as characters in his novel. Only with General Polk did I feel that he struck a false note. Though history leaves us little to admire about Polk, a man whose incompetence as a general was match only by his disloyalty and ambition - Carter goes far over the top, and I felt out of bounds, in his portrayal of him. Carter creates in Polk a Machiavellian monster of a man, false not only to his commander, but also to his God (Polk was a bishop in the Episcopal Church), and a ghoul who derived a perverse spiritual and sexual elation from the carnage of battle. Unlike even the most unlikable of the rest of his characters, Carter allowed no human element into this gross caricature of General Polk. Yet this character stands out as the one sour note in an otherwise brilliantly drawn cast.<br />`Bright Starry Banner' is a book of the horror of war, and the multitude of ways that humans respond to it. It does not attempt to be anything else; there are no sub plots of romance, nothing to soften the story and give a wider appeal. It is a book for those who would see terrible history brought vividly to life and presented with all of its human emotion and drama restored to the cold facts and casualty figures of the history books.<br /><br />Theo Logoslessly rehashed eastern battles between The Army of Northern Virginia and the Union's Army of the Potomac is a testament to the power of his historical insight, and the freshness of his creative ability.  The officers that Carter uses in his novel are historical rather than fictional constructs.  Generals Rosecrans, Thomas, Sheridan, Bragg, Hardee, Polk, and Cleburne, as well as Ambrose Bierce are all names familiar to me through my reading of histories, and I was amazed at how well Carter projected out from the available facts of the historical record to bring these men vividly to life as characters in his novel. Only with General Polk did I feel that he struck a false note. Though history leaves us little to admire about Polk, a man whose incompetence as a general was match only by his disloyalty and ambition - Carter goes far over the top, and I felt out of bounds, in his portrayal of him. Carter creates in Polk a Machiavellian monster of a man, false not only to his commander, but also to his God (Polk was a bishop in the Episcopal Church), and a ghoul who derived a perverse spiritual and sexual elation from the carnage of battle. Unlike even the most unlikable of the rest of his characters, Carter allowed no human element into this gross caricature of General Polk. Yet this character stands out as the one sour note in an otherwise brilliantly drawn cast.   `Bright Starry Banner' is a book of the horror of war, and the multitude of ways that humans respond to it. It does not attempt to be anything else; there are no sub plots of romance, nothing to soften the story and give a wider appeal. It is a book for those who would see terrible history brought vividly to life and presented with all of its human emotion and drama restored to the cold facts and casualty figures of the history books.     Theo Logos	2005-05-12
US	47624974	R35QWYPGMAAS4L	0822958651	372111348	Breaking The Backcountry: The Seven Years' War In Virginia And Pennsylvania 1754-1765	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Focus on the Frontier	Historians of the Seven Years War have often neglected to give much attention to the waging of that war in the backcountry of Pennsylvania and Virginia, preferring instead to concentrate on the conquest of Canada. Most of the set-piece, European style battles of that war happened in Canada or New York, and the conquest of Canada is generally viewed as the most important accomplishment of that war in North America. Yet it was in the backcountry of Pennsylvania where this first truly global war started, and its causes lay in the dispute between the English settlers of Virginia and Pennsylvania with the French over control of the rich country of the Ohio River Valley. And no area of North America suffered more from that war than did the frontier settlements of Pennsylvania and Virginia. Matthew Ward has taken on this oft neglected subject, and has given us an excellent book detailing the war as it was fought in the backcountry.<br /><br />Ward opens by detailing the disputes between the Pennsylvanian and Virginian colonist with the French power in Canada over who had rightful claim to the Ohio country. He touches on the winter journey of young George Washington on his unsuccessful diplomatic mission to the French at Fort LeBoeuf, and his even more disastrous military expedition and defeat at the Great Meadows the following year. (Washington's ill-fated expedition is often cited as the unofficial beginning of the Seven Years War.) He then moves on to the disaster of Braddock's expedition and massacre, which marked both the official beginning of the war, and the beginnings of several years of savage, bloody raids on the backcountry, raids that nearly depopulated the entire frontier.<br /><br />The war in the backcountry was not a war of set-piece battles, but one of small, guerilla style raids by bands of Indians, sometimes accompanied by French soldiers. They were repeatedly able to strike settlements quickly, wreck maximum damage, and retire before any resistance could be organized. In some instances, they engaged in psychological warfare, by purposely leaving mutilated bodies of women and children to horrify and terrorize the colonist. (This was a novel development, deviating from traditional Indian warfare, where women and children were valued as captives and generally not killed.) In this manner, the French and Indians, though numerically inferior to the English colonists, were able to devastate the Pennsylvanian and Virginian frontiers.<br /><br />Ward goes into great detail over the problems these two colonies had in forming any kind of effective military resistance to these raids on the backcountry. Neither colony had any previous military tradition, as both had enjoyed long periods of peaceful relations with their native neighbors. In addition, the population of the frontier was fragmented over issues of race and religion, had developed few community binding institutions, and had no clear elites who could naturally step into roles of military leadership. In Pennsylvania, the problem of organizing an effective defense force also ran up against the pacifistic beliefs of the Quakers who dominated politics in that colony.<br /><br />Ward does an outstanding job of holding a historical magnifying glass to the situation of the backcountry between Braddock's massacre and the successful Forbes expedition that finally came to terms with the Indians and chased the French from the forks of the Ohio River, effectively ending the war along the frontier. He also deals with the troubled relations between the English and the Indians after the establishment of Fort Pitt at the forks, and ends with Pontiac's Uprising, that Indian war that was the post script of the Seven Years War.<br /><br />If your primary interest is in the history of the regions covered in the book, then `Breaking the Backcountry' can be appreciated as a stand-alone book. If, however, your principal interest is in the Seven Years War, I would recommend reading it as a supplement, after reading a book that gives the full sweep of that war. `Crucible of War'. By Fred Anderson is an excellent place to begin to discover the big picture of that war.<br /><br />`Breaking the Backcountry' effectively puts a focus on an often overlooked but crucial aspect of the first great global war. It is well written, carefully researched, and I enthusiastically recommend it.<br /><br />Theo Logosa book that gives the full sweep of that war. `Crucible of War'. By Fred Anderson is an excellent place to begin to discover the big picture of that war.  <br />`Breaking the Backcountry' effectively puts a focus on an often overlooked but crucial aspect of the first great global war. It is well written, carefully researched, and I enthusiastically recommend it. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-05-02
US	47624974	R2XUEGDBTJ4PNE	0691102716	259213079	Gettysburg: Memory, Market, and an American Shrine	Books	4	5	5	N	N	History, Tourism, & Sacred Cows on the Run!	Jim Weeks' has created a fascinating study of American culture, class, and capitalism, over the past one hundred and forty years by chronicling and dissecting our changing relationship to the Gettysburg Battlefield National Park. This shrine became a tourist attraction before the bodies were buried, and remains one of our best known national shrines and most popular of tourist attractions to this day. Yet for each generation, Gettysburg has had a different meaning, appealed to different social classes for different reasons, and has been marketed differently. Weeks has examined the changing appeal of Gettysburg to the American psyche to draw some conclusions on how we view our history and see ourselves through it, how and why we create our national myths, and, in short, how we imagine and re-imagine ourselves as a people.<br />This book hit close to home for me, because my childhood experience fit squarely within its scope. My father was a Civil War buff, and our family made several pilgrimages to Gettysburg. Numerous black and white photos show me as a kid posing with Yankee cap, sword and gun on various cannons and monuments throughout the park. Our oft told family legend even claims that Dad took Mom to Gettysburg on their honeymoon. When Weeks wrote chapter six; `Automobiles and Family Touring', he could have been working from our family albums.<br />This is a book of social historical criticism, and if you prefer to take our national mythology at face value rather than questioning it, you should probably pass on it. Weeks is aggressive, perhaps even elitist, in the way he questions our social conventions, and he seems to like to poke sacred cows just to hear them moo. None of that changes the fact that he has written a fascinating book full of intriguing ideas. Despite his somewhat arrogant tone, Weeks' book is well worth reading.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-05-02
US	47624974	R34NSETG2HCITL	1889037109	249249268	The Indian Wars of Pennsylvania	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Invaluable History	`The Indian Wars of Pennsylvania' is an invaluable source for anyone interested in the colonial period, the wars of that period, or the Eastern woodland Indians. I would go so far as to say that no study of the French and Indian War in Pennsylvania, Pontiac's War, or the Revolutionary War in the backcountry should be considered complete without consulting this book. At seven hundred nineteen pages, several appendices, and over one hundred pages of notes, it is an exhaustive source on the wars that raged between the Indians and the settlers of Pennsylvania between the years of 1754 and 1796. It is also important to note that while this book was first published in 1929, it was ahead of its time regarding the attitude its author took toward natives. He neither vilified them, nor did he reduce them to the caricature of noble savage. Instead, the natives in his book are presented in a most straightforward manner - both in relating the wrongs and violence done to them, and in telling of their acts of warfare and savagery toward their foes.<br /><br />Sipe opens his book with a chapter on the Indian tribes who lived in and around Pennsylvania who would play principal roles in the Indian wars. He gives brief accounts of their customs and histories. In his second and third chapters, he relates the history of the long, peaceful relations between the Indians and the settlers of Pennsylvania from the time the first Swedish settlers came into the region until the beginning of the French and Indian War. After thus setting his stage, he launches into the long, bloody, and savage history of the warfare that rage between the Indians and the whites for the next fifty years. Every event, every person pertinent to the history of that troubled time is covered thoroughly.<br /><br />The history that Sipe tells is inherently dramatic, and while his prose is not brilliant, his skill was adequate to allow that natural drama to shine through. Unfortunately, in relating fifty years of savage warfare and atrocities committed back and forth, Sipe begins to sound repetitious, as after a while it seems that the only details that have changed as he relates a new raid are the names of the victims and perpetrators. This creates a numbing effect as you near the end of the book and one incident begins to blend into another.<br /><br />I highly recommend that you read this book together with James H. Merrell's excellent book, `Into the American Woods: Negotiators on the Pennsylvania Frontier.' Merrell's book relates the \\"Long Peace\\" in Pennsylvania, from 1682 to 1754, and the negotiators who help keep that peace. Read together, they provide the big picture of the relationships between the natives of the region and the European settlers in both war and peace, allowing a more complete understanding.<br /><br />`The Indian Wars of Pennsylvania' is a first rate history. No one with an interest in the region and the era can afford to miss it.<br /><br />Theo Logosnd atrocities committed back and forth, Sipe begins to sound repetitious, as after a while it seems that the only details that have changed as he relates a new raid are the names of the victims and perpetrators. This creates a numbing effect as you near the end of the book and one incident begins to blend into another.  <br />I highly recommend that you read this book together with James H. Merrell's excellent book, `Into the American Woods: Negotiators on the Pennsylvania Frontier.' Merrell's book relates the \\"Long Peace\\" in Pennsylvania, from 1682 to 1754, and the negotiators who help keep that peace. Read together, they provide the big picture of the relationships between the natives of the region and the European settlers in both war and peace, allowing a more complete understanding. <br />`The Indian Wars of Pennsylvania' is a first rate history. No one with an interest in the region and the era can afford to miss it. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-05-01
US	47624974	R2O7L3KL31Y359	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Bitter Beauty	I came to Alexie's book through `Smoke Signals', the movie that was loosely base on it. While the movie was first rate, and touched on the themes of despair and sadness endemic to life on the Reservation, it in no way prepared me for the dark, brooding, bitterness that lies coiled like a snake ready to strike at the heart of Alexie's prose. He has distilled five hundred years of his culture's loosing battle against the interlopers who have replaced them in their own land down into a powerful, bitter prose that rivals that of the greatest and grimmest of Russian novels.<br />If this was all there was to the book, `The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven' would have a limited appeal at best. But there is much more here. Alexie's talent at creating characters rivals that of Dickens, and the residents of the Reservation whom he introduces us to in these short stories are likely to stay in your imagination forever. Also, his sense of humor and comic timing are just as deft as his skill at emoting bitterness and despair. This softens the blow of his grim vision just enough to allow us to appreciate its bitter beauty.<br />Though I have no first hand experience of life on the Reservation, these stories feel as raw and honest as anything that I have ever read - painfully honest. Alexie has taken that pain and reshaped it into something beautiful and wonderful, and provided a window into a world that most of us will never know.<br />After reading this book, I am convinced that Sherman Alexie is a master talent, who will eventually take his place in the pantheon of great American writers. He was a wonderful discovery, and if you have not yet experienced his work, well then, get to it!<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-04-29
US	47624974	R1NEWMUGQT9ZLW	0061020699	863190678	Equal Rites	Books	3	1	1	N	N	"Very tricky, those early models"	\\"Equal Rites' was one of the earliest of Terry Pratchett's Discworld novels, and introduced a major character, the witch Granny Weatherwax, to that ever-growing world of wonders that travels through space on the back of a humongous tortoise. Like everything that Mr. Pratchett writes, it is fun, fast-reading, and thoroughly enjoyable. It relates the tale of Eskarina, an eight year old girl who through a twist of fate has been destined to become a wizard - thoroughly shaking up all the traditional wisdom and assumptions of Discworld magic, where everyone knows that only men can be wizards, just as only women can be witches. She is mentored by the local witch, Granny Weatherwax, who does all she can to try to redirect the girl into witchcraft, the only proper and sensible magic for a woman. Granny soon comes to terms with the inevitability of Esk's fate, however, and accompanies her on a journey to the great Unseen University, training institution of wizards and exclusive bastion of masculinity, where she hopes to break untold generations of tradition by gaining entrance for her ward.<br />Pratchett's Discworld novels started out as light hearted, clever parodies both of the conventions and clich&eacute;s of fantasy novels, and of conventions and assumptions of Western culture in general. As his world developed, his philosophical skewering of real world situations grew sharper while parody took on at best a secondary, background role. In this early novel, it feels like he was beginning to shift into greater social commentary, but slipped gears in the attempt. Although the story is rapped around the issue of male and female roles, he really muddles whatever he was trying to say, perhaps not yet fully comfortable with mixing sharp social satire into a light fantasy setting. The result is neither fish nor fowl, and though still fun to read, lacks the element of greatness that sets most of Pratchett's Discworld novel so far above the normal book of fantasy.<br />Had this book been written by anyone else but Pratchett, I probably would have given it a four star review, but Pratchett has set a higher standard, and I judge him by it. If you have not yet been introduced to the world of Discworld, this book is not the place to start, although once you have picked up the addiction, you will probably come around to it eventually.<br /><br />Theo Logosen by anyone else but Pratchett, I probably would have given it a four star review, but Pratchett has set a higher standard, and I judge him by it. If you have not yet been introduced to the world of Discworld, this book is not the place to start, although once you have picked up the addiction, you will probably come around to it eventually.    Theo Logos	2005-04-25
US	47624974	R3FNZXU8RK0Q9B	0375405836	265617910	Jesse James: Last Rebel of the Civil War	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Lost Cause Terrorist	With `Jesse James Last Rebel of the Civil War', J. T. Stiles has given us a most insightful, penetrating, and serious study not just of that outlaw, but more importantly, of the place and times that produced him, and which are necessary for an understanding of who and what he was. Stiles book is as much a study of the social/political/economic history of Missouri from 1845 through 1882 as it is a biography of James. Indeed, Jesse James is not even a principal actor in the book through its first one hundred pages. These are devoted to a vigorous examination of the James family, the Missouri society in which they lived, and the coming of the Civil War to that society. Outside of this context, the actions of Jesse James' life have no coherent meaning.<br />Stiles writes of a Missouri that was deeply divided on the burning issues of the times, both before and after the Civil War. It did not belong to any one section of the country, but contained many different inhabitants who looked variously South, North, or West for their cultural identification. When the war came, this caused violent splits in Missouri society. Great atrocities were committed by both sides as neighbors fought and killed each other in bloody, no holds barred guerrilla warfare. The end of the war with a Northern victory did not stop this conflict in Missouri, where the victors and vanquished still lived side by side, and where their pre-war differences now were enhanced by blood feuds. The Missouri guerrillas, or Bushwhackers as they were known, continued right on fighting for their Lost Cause, still hoping to shape the future of their state according to their values. It was as one of them, fighting for the Lost Cause of the South, that Jesse James made his mark on history.<br />Jesse James entered manhood and history as a sixteen year old, riding with the infamous Bloody Bill Anderson's band of Bushwhackers. Stiles sees this as the experience that left an indelible mark on Jesse's character, predetermining the direction that this intelligent, outgoing young man would take for the rest of his violent life. It was here that he learned to kill ruthlessly for his cause, and to love the excitement of the violent life. It was also here where he met the men who would be his partners in his outlaw endeavors, men who were bound by their war-time experience and loyalties, and who all shared the vision of the Lost Cause.<br />The years after the war were a time of great political conflict in Missouri. Confederate Democrats fought Unionist Democrats, and they both fought Radical Republicans for control of the state. According to Stiles, this was Jesse's battle ground. He points to the friendship between Jesse and Confederate newspaperman John Newman Edwards, whose editorials made Jesse famous, and suggests that they actually were working in partnership - Jesse as the warrior, and Edwards as the propagandist creating a hero for the Confederate Democrats to rally around. He makes a strong case that nearly all of the robberies committed by the James gang were carefully crafted to create the maximum political effect, and suggests that Jesse should be seen not in the context of social bandit, as he often has been cast, but as a prototype of the modern political terrorist. After reading all of the evidence that Stiles presents in this carefully researched book, this interpretation of Jesse James looks not only possible, but probable.<br />This book is recommended for anyone with an interest in the Civil War and Reconstruction, as well as those interested in the James gang.<br /><br />Theo Logose direction that this intelligent, outgoing young man would take for the rest of his violent life. It was here that he learned to kill ruthlessly for his cause, and to love the excitement of the violent life. It was also here where he met the men who would be his partners in his outlaw endeavors, men who were bound by their war-time experience and loyalties, and who all shared the vision of the Lost Cause.  The years after the war were a time of great political conflict in Missouri. Confederate Democrats fought Unionist Democrats, and they both fought Radical Republicans for control of the state. According to Stiles, this was Jesse's battle ground. He points to the friendship between Jesse and Confederate newspaperman John Newman Edwards, whose editorials made Jesse famous, and suggests that they actually were working in partnership - Jesse as the warrior, and Edwards as the propagandist creating a hero for the Confederate Democrats to rally around. He makes a strong case that nearly all of the robberies committed by the James gang were carefully crafted to create the maximum political effect, and suggests that Jesse should be seen not in the context of social bandit, as he often has been cast, but as a prototype of the modern political terrorist. After reading all of the evidence that Stiles presents in this carefully researched book, this interpretation of Jesse James looks not only possible, but probable.   This book is recommended for anyone with an interest in the Civil War and Reconstruction, as well as those interested in the James gang.    Theo Logos	2005-04-25
US	47624974	RSGGLP10INIFT	0671662481	124602213	Drummer Hoff	Books	5	37	37	N	N	A Generation Spanning Favorite	I discovered `Drummer Hoff' in a Scholastic book offer at school when I was six, and begged my parents to buy it for me. Like many little boys, I was enamored by soldiers, and would pour over the book again and again, entranced by the colorful European dress uniforms worn by the motley bunch of soldiers who were assembling, loading, and preparing to fire a cannon. Each one was distinctive, and I was particularly fond of Sergeant Chowder (who brought the powder), a gruff looking peg-legged fellow in a grenadiers hat, and Captain Bammer (who brought the rammer), a swashbuckling, eye-patch wearing chap. All of the illustrations were stunningly lined wood-cuts, brightly colored. I would try to draw soldiers who looked like those in the book, and learned all the words by heart.<br />Jump forward thirty years. My first child was born, and though I hadn't looked at the book in over twenty-five years, I found myself chanting the words to my baby as I rocked him to sleep - I still remembered them perfectly! I retrieved `Drummer Hoff' from my parent's attic, and it has now become my two pre-school boy's favorite book. It is a cherished piece of my childhood that I am thrilled to be able to pass on to them.<br />Other reviews here have mentioned the subtle anti-war message contained in this book, and I must agree. When the cannon fires, it is a two page spread KAHBAHBLOOOM, all done in hellish red with some dark purple and blue behind it. When you turn the next page, all of the sharply dressed, parade ground soldiers are gone, and the abandoned cannon that was their focus has become a dilapidated ruin in an overgrown meadow full of birds and butterflies. Though as a child  I could not clearly articulate the thoughts, I remember pondering what happened to the soldiers; why they had left the cannon there, and if they had perhaps been hurt when it was fired.. It was my first influence to suggest that war might be something other than romance and adventure. My young boys have already questioned me about these very things, which they too noticed. It is a fine, age appropriate way to begin to instill the values of peace in the hearts of little boys.<br />Among all of the many wonderful books written for small children, this was, is, and ever shall be my very favorite.  It receives my highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosstioned me about these very things, which they too noticed. It is a fine, age appropriate way to begin to instill the values of peace in the hearts of little boys.  Among all of the many wonderful books written for small children, this was, is, and ever shall be my very favorite.  It receives my highest recommendation.     Theo Logos	2005-04-12
US	47624974	R372RRHYBV6ZC1	0803257813	955964094	Doc Holliday (Bison Book S)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Auspicious Match of Author and Subject	Doc Holliday is my favorite of all the colorful characters who became legends of the old West, and John Myers Myers is my favorite historian of that great epic of American history. I believe that this book is the best of the many volumes that Myers wrote on the history of the West. Myers brings just the right voice to the story - an idiosyncratic style of telling a tale full of colorful idioms and turns of phrase that perfectly match a history full of people with monikers like Doc, Big Nose Kate, and Curly Bill.<br /> Myers was a great folk historian. While he did solid research on his subjects, he realized that the legends that grew up around certain characters had as much historical importance as the facts of their life.  Often when writing histories of the West, verifiable facts are few, and legends are plentiful. This was certainly the case when Myers wrote `Doc Holiday'. Yet he was able to use what was known to weave a fascinating tale that rings true. History, after all, is more art form than science, and Myer's \\"Doc Holiday' should survive more academic efforts that have missed this point in a quixotic quest for \\"just the facts, ma'am\\".<br />Doc Holliday, both by the circumstances of his time and place, and apparently by his own design, left a scant official record of his passing among us, but he blazed a wide trail in the legend that he left behind.  Myers did a fine job of ferreting out the former, and a masterful job of portraying the later. He captured the spirit of the man and the times and wild place in which he lived and moved. This is a book worthy of the legend, and I recommend it highly.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-04-08
US	47624974	R6QOLDOOXI4SV	0375706364	123472120	Crucible of War: The Seven Years' War and the Fate of Empire in British North America, 1754-1766	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Rigorous History Presented with a Novelist's Skill	`Crucible of War' is a tremendous achievement - a comprehensive, informative overview of The Seven Years War that is accessible while maintaining scholarly rigor. Prof. Anderson presents a sweeping, densely detailed, big picture view of the war in prose worthy of an exceptional novelist. In doing so, he very well may have created the best, modern, one volume history of the war available today.<br /><br />Anderson writes that The Seven Years War was the most important war of the 18th century, not just a sort of prequel to the American Revolution as many here in the States tend to view it. \\"Unlike every prior 18th century European conflict,\\" Anderson writes, \\"The Seven Years War ended in the decisive defeat of one belligerent and a dramatic rearrangement of the balance of power, in Europe and North America alike.\\" The result crushed French power and dreams of empire in North America, while giving Britain her first great empire. It also profoundly altered the destiny of the American Indians and colonist.<br /><br />The Seven Years War was the first truly global war, fought not just in North America and Europe, but in Asia, Africa, and the Pacific. It started, however, in the backwoods of North America, and Anderson maintains that North America was both the most important theater and the greatest prize of that war. His focus, therefore, is concentrated on British North America. He not only emphasizes the role that the colonist played in the conflict (something that has often been overlooked), but counts the Indians as a full player in the game of empire - struggling to maintain their way of life, and not just a sort of savage auxiliary force for the Europeans.<br /><br />Anderson does not end his history with the official end of the war. He goes on to write of Pontiac's Uprising, and the effects that Britain's victory had on the Indians. Likewise, he writes of the Stamp Act and the other acts passed by Parliament in an attempt to pay the huge debt the war had caused - actions that began to destroy their newly gained empire from its infancy. He never looses sight of the fact that the history of a war is far more than a detailing of battles.<br /><br />While Anderson writes vividly of the battles of this war,' Crucible of War `is not a book which concentrates on military campaigns, and if you have only a narrow interest in campaign histories, this is probably not the book for you.  Nor does he effectively cover the French perspective of the war. What he does most effectively is give the big picture of the war and its meaning for Britain, her North American colonist, and the Indians. Both those who are coming to this material for the first time and those who already have a firm knowledge of the period can benefit from reading this superb book, and I give it my very highest of recommendations.<br /><br />Theo Logosgan to destroy their newly gained empire from its infancy. He never looses sight of the fact that the history of a war is far more than a detailing of battles. <br />While Anderson writes vividly of the battles of this war,' Crucible of War `is not a book which concentrates on military campaigns, and if you have only a narrow interest in campaign histories, this is probably not the book for you.  Nor does he effectively cover the French perspective of the war. What he does most effectively is give the big picture of the war and its meaning for Britain, her North American colonist, and the Indians. Both those who are coming to this material for the first time and those who already have a firm knowledge of the period can benefit from reading this superb book, and I give it my very highest of recommendations. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-04-07
US	47624974	R3V1YAO8SSE59H	B0006BQD2C	482408631	Print in a wild land	Books	3	3	3	N	N	"Footloose Sons of Gutenberg"	`Print in a Wild Land' is a book that is more interesting in concept than it is in execution. The book's subject, the fourth estate on the frontier of the Wild West, seems promising. Newspaper men as a group often make good copy themselves, and a history of this interesting bunch on the wilds of the western frontier would seem to be full of promise. Unfortunately, that promise goes largely unfulfilled.<br />John Myers Myers is one of my favorite historians of the American West, mainly because of his unorthodox style and voice.  He would often approach his subject with little regard for chronology, arranging events as they fell into the cadence of the story he was telling, and allowing the timeline to eventually sort itself out. His real charm lay in his unconventional voice, full of odd word play and folksy sayings. This usually worked well for him when describing the history of the wild open West. In `Print in a Wild Land', however, both his style and his voice contribute to the failure of the book. Without a timeline to follow, or even a strong thematic grouping of events, this book is little more than a collection of vaguely interesting anecdotes that hardly seem to justify a book length treatment. Add to this the fact that Myers went so far over the top with his odd phrases and word play here that it moved far beyond his usual charm to become annoyingly distractive.<br />There are some redeeming elements to \\"Print in a Wild Land'. Myers salted it liberally with copy from the western newsmen, some of which is sure to bring a smile, such as the paper that grouped birth, marriage, and death announcements under the heading \\"Hatched, Matched, & Dispatched\\". There are quotes here from famous and near famous newsmen, like Sam Clemens, Ambrose Bierce, John Clum of Tombstone, and A.W. Merrick of Deadwood - there just isn't enough to justify digging through this unorganized mess of a book.<br />If you are a die hard John Myers Myers fan as I am, you probably still will want to read this book. My advice is that you find it in a library rather than searching for a copy to buy. It is not one of his better efforts.<br /><br />Theo Logosthis book. My advice is that you find it in a library rather than searching for a copy to buy. It is not one of his better efforts.    Theo Logos	2005-04-06
US	47624974	R38A2U54I4RTZ1	0811700771	616930642	Frontier War for American Independence	Books	2	17	19	N	N	You need a camel to get through this one!	`The Frontier War for American Independence' is a barren desert of a book with nary an oasis of refreshment between its covers.  The subject matter is both important and potentially fascinating, but Mr. Nester has no sense of its inherent drama, and cannot weave an interesting tale even from this, the most promising of material. He approaches it with all the skill of a high school phys-ed teacher who is expected to teach a history class on the side. There is some useful information on the subject here for the reader intrepid enough to brave the daunting Sahara of Mr. Nester's prose, (thus two stars rather than one) but it is not a journey that I recommend that you undertake.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-04-04
US	47624974	RJ291QSEBIO24	080328215X	305161122	Tombstone's Early Years	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The Last of the Lawless Towns and its Legend	John Myers Myers had a comfortable way of relating Western history. He would take his time leading up to his tale, giving pertinent background for his main story, setting the tone and the context for what was to come. He then would launch into his tale like a grizzled, wise old-timer, complete with rambling, colorful asides that might seem to diverge from his story, but often proved to be surprisingly pertinent in the end. He never forgot that \\"Story\\" is the most important element in his-story, and his folksy style was uniquely suited to the Western histories that he wrote.<br />Tombstone's Early Years is a fine little history of that town \\"too tough to die\\". Myers began the story with Ed Schieffelin, the prospector who was told by soldiers that all he would find in that dangerous part of the Arizona territory was his tombstone. Instead, he found a claim of silver that made him a rich man, and he christened that claim Tombstone. Soon, others flocked to the region in search of their dreams of silver wealth, and the town of Tombstone grew up around the rough mining camp that was established there. Myers worked his way slowly from there up to the chaos and lawlessness that engendered the Earp/Clanton feud for which Tombstone is best known. While this feud and its climax at the OK Corral shoot-out are the heart of his story, he never lost sight of the town itself and the regular citizens who watched it unfold, whose lives were affected by it, and who rooted for one side or the other.<br />The feud between the Earps and the Clanton Cowboy gang has always been associated with controversy, and even now, at nearly a century and a quarter removed from the events, there are still strong partisans for both sides, who bring great passion to their positions. Myers was firmly in the Earp camp with his interpretation of the history. He did not make Wyatt and his brothers out to be pure, white-hat heroes out of old dime westerns, but he definitely made it clear on which side of that largely lawless divide he believed that the right laid, and it was not with the Cowboys. If you are a passionate Clanton Gang advocate, this might negatively color your opinion of Myers' book. Everyone else should find Myers' handling of the subject to be first rate, both in his storytelling and his research.<br />In the final sentence of the book, Myers wrote, \\"the great thing about Tombstone was not that there was silver in the veins of the adjacent hills, but that life flowed hotly and strongly in the veins of its people.\\" Myers did a great job of capturing the feel of that hot blooded passion that fueled the town and the legend, and everyone who loves true tales of the old west should give his book a read.<br /><br />Theo Logosely lawless divide he believed that the right laid, and it was not with the Cowboys. If you are a passionate Clanton Gang advocate, this might negatively color your opinion of Myers' book. Everyone else should find Myers' handling of the subject to be first rate, both in his storytelling and his research.  In the final sentence of the book, Myers wrote, \\"the great thing about Tombstone was not that there was silver in the veins of the adjacent hills, but that life flowed hotly and strongly in the veins of its people.\\" Myers did a great job of capturing the feel of that hot blooded passion that fueled the town and the legend, and everyone who loves true tales of the old west should give his book a read.    Theo Logos	2005-03-19
US	47624974	R2DEM9K11UNCVR	0441004016	561680837	The Anubis Gates (Ace Science Fiction)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Powerful blend of history and mythology	What sets Tim Powers above many others who write in the fantasy genre is his excellent grasp of both history and mythology, and the effortless way that he blends them together to create uniquely fascinating story lines. The Anubis Gates is a fine example of his genius. He combines history of early 19th century and late 17th century London with Egyptian mythology, binds it all together with time travel, and creates a fascinating and fast moving story. He skillfully introduces historical personages such as Lord Byron and Samuel Taylor Coleridge into his story, as well as asides referring to King George III and his madness, and Napoleon and his threatened invasion of England. He also creates an intriguing London underworld of bizarre  beggar's guilds and gypsy tribes. He then shows us this world through the eyes of a 20th century academic that is thrust into it almost by accident.<br />The only flaw in Powers' writing is in his character creation. His characters are serviceable, but are never really rounded out into three dimensional, flesh and blood people that fully engage me into caring for them deeply. They are adequate to serve his powerful, fast moving plot, but don't add much to it. However, once you have been captured by the magic of his plot, you should be able to forgive a bit of flatness in his characters.<br />The Anubis Gates is original, fast moving and fun. I highly recommend it.<br />Theo Logos	2005-03-10
US	47624974	R21YS5XJMIZFV	0404067794	96752625	George Croghan and the Westward Movement, 1741-1782	Books	3	13	13	N	N	A Forgotten Giant	It is one of the great vagaries of history that George Croghan did not become an American icon, but instead languishes in near complete obscurity. Few men in the Colonial period accomplished more for their country, and perhaps none were more influential in encouraging the westward expansion of America. Croghan was the most successful Indian trader of his era, and following that trade, was exploring Kentucky twenty years before Daniel Boone. He was the preeminent Indian negotiator of his generation, unrivalled in respect and influence among the western Indians. He was with the young George Washington when he started the French and Indian War at the Great Meadows in 1754, and a year later he scouted for Braddock's army, and with Washington, rescued the mortally wounded Braddock from the field when that army was massacred. He led one hundred natives fighting for the English at the battle of Ticondaroga in 1756, and in 1758 was with General Forbes when his army captured Fort DuQuesne at the forks of the Ohio. He traveled deep into the wild interior of the country during Pontiac's Uprising, and negotiated an end to that conflict after being attacked and taken prisoner by hostile natives. And he was one of the greatest land speculators of his day, organizing great land companies to encourage western expansion, and firing the imaginations of friends and associates such as Benjamin Franklin and Patrick Henry with the dream of western development. His fascinating life deserves a first rate, modern biography.<br /><br />Until a modern biography of Croghan is written, Albert Volwiler's 1926 book George Croghan and the Westward Movement is perhaps the sole book devoted to this giant of the Colonial frontier. Volwiler's book is well researched, lavishly noted, and contains a wealth of information on its subject. However, it is unlikely to appeal to anyone who does not already have a firm interest in Croghan. The writing is generally uninspired, and often tedious. Volwiler skims past some of the most exciting episodes of Croghan's life with but a few sentences while spending chapters detailing the minutia of his many land deals.<br /><br />Knowing Croghan and his accomplishments is crucial to understanding the Colonial frontier, and anyone interested in studying this period is advised to read this book. Just keep your fingers crossed that someone soon will realize what an amazing life he led, and will write a biography that will do it justice.<br /><br />Theo Logossome of the most exciting episodes of Croghan's life with but a few sentences while spending chapters detailing the minutia of his many land deals.  <br />Knowing Croghan and his accomplishments is crucial to understanding the Colonial frontier, and anyone interested in studying this period is advised to read this book. Just keep your fingers crossed that someone soon will realize what an amazing life he led, and will write a biography that will do it justice. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-02-21
US	47624974	R2PURTZ56YZWYY	0393319768	465022110	Into the American Woods: Negotiations on the Pennsylvania Frontier	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Ambiguous Legacy	William Penn, founder of the Pennsylvania Colony, was an idealist. He sincerely believed that all men, no matter how different, could live together in peace, and he based the Indian policy of his colony on that principle. A 1701 treaty between Penn's colony and the Conestogas Indians was typical; in it both sides pledged \\"that they shall forever hereafter be as one Head & One Heart, & live in true Friendship & Amity as one People.\\" Penn went on to promise \\"for himself, his heirs and Successors, yt he and they will at all times shew themselves true Friends & Brothers to all & every one of ye Said Indians.\\" In 1763, a copy of that document was found with the dismembered bodies of peaceful Indians, victims of the violent carnage wrought by the Paxton Boys, colonist enraged by the savagery of the French and Indian War on the Pennsylvania frontier. Yet between the founding of Penn's Woods and the war were over seventy years of Peace. This \\"Long Peace\\", the product of William Penn's idealism, was tenuously maintained only through the efforts of a remarkable group of men, both Indians and colonist, who moved between the two worlds. These negotiators were the go-betweens and interpreters of both language and culture that made Penn's dream of peace a practical reality for so long.<br /><br />James H. Merrell's book thoroughly examines these negotiators and their world in fascinating detail. What sort of men became negotiators, the standing they had in their various communities, the hardships and challenges of the trails they traveled, their modes of communication (including the significance of ceremonies, wampum, and written treaties); all of this is explored in depth. Merrell draws on many case histories of specific negotiators, like Conrad Weiser, George Croghan, Christian Frederick Post, Andrew Montour, Shickellamy, Civility, and many others to sketch out the broader canvas of the life, motivation, and methods of negotiators on the frontier. He follows the broad arc of their rise to prominence, their pinnacle of success, and the slow unraveling of their effectiveness on into the ultimate failure of their craft in the outbreak of the French and Indian War and beyond.<br /><br />Merrell focuses on the ambiguous nature of this frontier diplomacy. Though it served for many years to keep the peace in Pennsylvania, and though on the surface the negotiators seemed to be a perfect blending of the Colonial and Indian cultures, he points out the deep philosophical differences, and the fundamentally different goals of the Indian and Colonial negotiators. George Croghan may have taken on many Indian ways, and Moses Tatamy (called a settlement or \\"tame\\" Indian) may have dressed like a colonist and even practiced their religion, yet neither they, nor any of the negotiators, ever operated under a single, common shared vision. All remained firmly planted in the worldview of their birth, despite surface similarities, , and in this lay the key to the ultimate breakdown and failure of the negotiating enterprise.<br /><br />Understanding the relationship that the Eastern communities had to their frontier is crucial to a proper understanding of the Colonial period, and I know of no other single book that gives such a clear, detailed, and fascinating account of that relationship. In addition, it is an invaluable source detailing the genesis of the French and Indian War, which started in the Pennsylvanian back woods. Over one hundred pages of notes make it a valuable source for discovering further areas of study as well. Any student of this period of American history should find Into the American Woods both enjoyable and immensely useful.<br /><br />Theo Logosise to prominence, their pinnacle of success, and the slow unraveling of their effectiveness on into the ultimate failure of their craft in the outbreak of the French and Indian War and beyond.  <br />Merrell focuses on the ambiguous nature of this frontier diplomacy. Though it served for many years to keep the peace in Pennsylvania, and though on the surface the negotiators seemed to be a perfect blending of the Colonial and Indian cultures, he points out the deep philosophical differences, and the fundamentally different goals of the Indian and Colonial negotiators. George Croghan may have taken on many Indian ways, and Moses Tatamy (called a settlement or \\"tame\\" Indian) may have dressed like a colonist and even practiced their religion, yet neither they, nor any of the negotiators, ever operated under a single, common shared vision. All remained firmly planted in the worldview of their birth, despite surface similarities, , and in this lay the key to the ultimate breakdown and failure of the negotiating enterprise. <br />Understanding the relationship that the Eastern communities had to their frontier is crucial to a proper understanding of the Colonial period, and I know of no other single book that gives such a clear, detailed, and fascinating account of that relationship. In addition, it is an invaluable source detailing the genesis of the French and Indian War, which started in the Pennsylvanian back woods. Over one hundred pages of notes make it a valuable source for discovering further areas of study as well. Any student of this period of American history should find Into the American Woods both enjoyable and immensely useful. <br /> <br />Theo Logos <br />	2005-02-19
US	47624974	R1HFJTLVGEUPVI	0195051912	100954353	The Whiskey Rebellion: Frontier Epilogue to the American Revolution	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A Battle for the Meaning of the American Revolution	In October of 1794, President Washington sent an army nearly 13,000 strong across the Allegheny Mountains into the frontier regions of Western Pennsylvania to suppress a popular uprising against the federal government. This event marked the greatest internal crisis of Washington's administration, and the most significant crisis of disunion to the United States prior to the Civil War. This significance of this event, both at the time, and to the continuing debate about the meaning of America, has often been overlooked or forgotten in popular histories. Thomas Slaughter's book goes a long way toward correcting that oversight.<br />The Whiskey Rebellion was a reaction against an excise tax place on spirits, and shared much in common with the similar tax revolt against the Stamp Act that ignited the flames of the American Revolution. Indeed, the Whiskey rebels saw themselves as upholding the spirit of the Revolution, and believed that the leaders of the federal government had abandoned those principles in favor of personal gain.<br />Slaughter does an outstanding job of telling each side of the story without a strong bias toward either side. He paints the rebellion as a massive failure to communicate between the parties involved. The conflict illustrated a deep divide between the East and the West of the country, setting urban against rural interests, localist ideologies against nationalist, and of course, all the familiar divisions that are inherent in class and economic differences. Slaughter describes the federal government and its supporters as having \\"generally shared a Hobbesian-type fear of anarchy as the starting point for their consideration,\\" while he says that the Whiskey Rebels and their friends \\"took a more Lockeian-type stance,\\" believing  \\"that protection of liberty, not the maintenance of order, was the principal task of government.\\" The federal government emphasized the power of the Constitution, while the Whiskey Rebels emphasized the much more radical Declaration of Independence.<br />The Whiskey Rebellion was a turning point in America's history. It showed the central government's willingness and ability to enforce its laws even at great distance from it center of power. It was a midwife to the birth of true political parties that emerged in the following years. And it set the parameters of the great political debate of just what the meaning of the American Revolution and what it means to be an American really is, a debate that continues along remarkably similar lines to this day.<br />This book will be of particular interest to those interested in the early Republic and the Washington Administration, the career of Alexander Hamilton, the Federalist - Anti-Federalist question, or the early American frontier. It is well written, well reasoned, and highly recommended.<br /><br />Theo Logosation of Independence.  The Whiskey Rebellion was a turning point in America's history. It showed the central government's willingness and ability to enforce its laws even at great distance from it center of power. It was a midwife to the birth of true political parties that emerged in the following years. And it set the parameters of the great political debate of just what the meaning of the American Revolution and what it means to be an American really is, a debate that continues along remarkably similar lines to this day.  This book will be of particular interest to those interested in the early Republic and the Washington Administration, the career of Alexander Hamilton, the Federalist - Anti-Federalist question, or the early American frontier. It is well written, well reasoned, and highly recommended.    Theo Logos	2005-02-02
US	47624974	R3ZYNV7PK4CZG	0802135854	487867901	Stone Junction	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Crazy Sanity	Stone Junction reads like a literary Frankenstein construct - equal parts Tom Robbins' whimsy, Umberto Eco's esotericism, and Ken Kesey's individualism/anarchism, yet it is all Jim Dodge's brilliance. If this witches brew makes you blanche in horror then avoid this book. If, however, like me, it whets your imagination and sets your mind to salivating, then by all means crack the covers and come dance at the monster's ball!<br />Stone Junction will introduce you to the AMO - The Alliance of Magicians and Outlaws, or some say Alchemist Magicians and Outlaws, or perhaps Artists, Mythsingers, and Outriders. Whatever the acronym's meaning, it is made up of the most amazing collection of gentle grafters, charming grifters, clever forgers, high stakes gamblers, Zen safe crackers, mountain men drug dealers, forgers, alchemist, and magicians; anarchists all. Some reviewers have called these characters impossible. Improbable yes, but only impossible for those who lack experience and imagination. It is as fine a collection of heroes as one could wish for in this increasingly authoritarian age.<br />The tale itself is a quest, coming of age story, and parable. Its comedy will make you cry; its tragedy will crack you up with laughter. It is an excellent mirror of life.<br />Jim Dodge has reached the pinnacle of his writing powers in this his third novel. Fup, his first effort, is a charming but limited short parable. Not Fade Away, his second effort, presented an amazing journey without much of a destination. In Stone Junction, the journey Dodge imagines is incredible with an ending worthy of the story he creates.<br />If you find this review excessive, I will wager diamonds to toilet paper that you will not enjoy the novel. If it intrigues you, assume that you are the intended audience, and acquire this book ASAP.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-01-29
US	47624974	RQHOAVB9RX18U	0691057338	435913715	Baseball in Blue and Gray: The National Pastime during the Civil War	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Good early baseball history, not much Civil War	The title of George B. Kirsch's book Baseball in Blue & Gray is a tad misleading.  It implies that the book is a history of baseball as played by soldiers in the American Civil War. Though one chapter, titled battlefront, is devoted to baseball as it was played in the military and prison camps of that war, the remainder of the book is best captured by its sub-title - The National Pastime During the Civil War. As a history of how baseball developed, progressed, and grew into the American National Pastime during the first half of the 1860s, this book does a fine job. If, however, you are looking for a book full of Civil War baseball antidotes, you will find this book a disappointment.<br />Kirsch begins with a quick history lesson on the origins of baseball. He claims that the game is distantly related to the English game of rounders, not the more famous English bat and ball game cricket. Rounders underwent a major transformation in America, and emerged as the game of townball, a unique American version of the game that was widely played throughout the country in the antebellum years. In the 1840s, a New York club, the Knickerbockers, developed rules of play for townball that qualified it as the earliest form of baseball. This New York style of play became quickly popular, and by the 1850s had spread all over the region and beyond. Kirsch claims that the soldiers in the Civil War helped to spread the new form of the game around the country, but has little more than antidotal evidence for this claim.<br />The real virtue of Baseball in Blue & Gray is not its Civil War tie in, put the wealth of knowledge on the early development of baseball in the days before professional leagues. Kirsch shows how the game progressed from being an amusement of a few gentlemen's clubs in New York, Philadelphia, and Boston in the 1850s, to having an honest claim to the title of the National Pastime by 1870. He tells how men like Henry Chadwick and Albert Spalding help to shape what the game became, and shows why their names are enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame.<br />At 135 pages, Baseball in Blue & Gray is but a brief book. It is written in a clear and concise manner, and is easy reading. Anyone interested in the history of the origins and development of baseball should find it worthwhile, although those who are searching primarily for the Civil War angle may find it a bit disappointing, as it was somewhat of a stretch to market this baseball history as Civil War literature.<br /><br />Theo Logosme, and shows why their names are enshrined in the Baseball Hall of Fame.  At 135 pages, Baseball in Blue & Gray is but a brief book. It is written in a clear and concise manner, and is easy reading. Anyone interested in the history of the origins and development of baseball should find it worthwhile, although those who are searching primarily for the Civil War angle may find it a bit disappointing, as it was somewhat of a stretch to market this baseball history as Civil War literature.    Theo Logos	2005-01-21
US	47624974	R1VYYKN72IAV3I	0803258348	638821512	The Saga of Hugh Glass: Pirate, Pawnee, and Mountain Man	Books	4	71	72	N	N	A Legend Revived	Mountain man Hugh Glass was a legend to his peers, many of them legends themselves. His fame spread to the East, where his incredible story was told in the newspapers of Philadelphia. His legend entered the lore of Indian tribes as well, where it was still being told many decades after his passing. But with the coming of the 20th century, Hugh's legend faded into obscurity. John Myers Myers' The Saga of Hugh Glass is an excellent attempt to rescue Hugh from the obscurity that he had faded into and restore him to his rightful place among American frontier legends.<br />The central tale of Hugh's legend is almost too fantastic to be believed. Attacked and mauled to the point of death by a grizzly bear, he was left in the wilderness to die by companions who robbed him of his rifle, knife, tomahawk, flint, and nearly all the tools necessary for survival in the wild. Yet Hugh, though horribly wounded, near death and weaponless, navigated over 300 miles of virgin wilderness back to a frontier outpost. Then, after refitting with weapons and equipment, and before his wounds were fully healed, he set out into the wilderness alone once more to make an incredible solo winter journey to retrieve his precious rifle and take vengeance on the companions who had robbed and abandoned him.<br />Many historians had discounted this story as balderdash - nothing more than the outlandish boasting of a blowhard's self-aggrandizement. Myers addresses this in the first section of his book, carefully assembling the remaining evidence, and building a powerful case for the veracity of the legend. Before launching into Hugh's story, he has already reasonably established that though fantastic, the story you are about to read is true, not just another tall tale.<br />John Myers Myers is a favorite author of mine. Though he thoroughly researched his histories, he had nothing of the academic about him when telling a tale. He was a pure folk historian, and his writing style is utterly idiosyncratic, and resembles nothing more than a grizzled old story teller telling tales around the fire. His prose is loaded throughout with colorful phrases - \\"pickled in print\\", \\"throwing lead\\", and \\"not a bet on which Lloyds of London would risk a confederate dollar\\". These are just a small sampling of Myers' unique voice. For ears accustomed to more traditional forms of history, his rambling and folksy style may be off-putting. I, however, find it perfectly suited to his subject matter and a charming and refreshing change of pace from the ordinary.<br />This book should be of great interest for those who study the period of the mountain men and fur trade. It should be on the bookshelf of anyone who loves tales of great American legends. And it is highly recommended reading for anyone who loves stories of amazing true adventure told well.<br /><br />Theo Logosles nothing more than a grizzled old story teller telling tales around the fire. His prose is loaded throughout with colorful phrases - \\"pickled in print\\", \\"throwing lead\\", and \\"not a bet on which Lloyds of London would risk a confederate dollar\\". These are just a small sampling of Myers' unique voice. For ears accustomed to more traditional forms of history, his rambling and folksy style may be off-putting. I, however, find it perfectly suited to his subject matter and a charming and refreshing change of pace from the ordinary.  This book should be of great interest for those who study the period of the mountain men and fur trade. It should be on the bookshelf of anyone who loves tales of great American legends. And it is highly recommended reading for anyone who loves stories of amazing true adventure told well.    Theo Logos	2005-01-16
US	47624974	R23LZ6JXHOQASR	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	3	223	264	N	N	Tasty, Yet Unsastisfying	The three star rating that I have given to American Gods is reflective of the ambivalence I feel toward it. I enjoyed reading it, and found it a real page-turner. The concept was fascinating and the mythological elements were interesting and clever in their American guises. So what's the problem? It is akin to the old chestnut about eating Chinese food - after devouring 600 plus pages of Mr. Gaiman's novel I found that I was still hungry, still unsatisfied despite the tastiness of Gaiman's talent.<br />The problem is that I was expecting an epic. The book's subject matter, length, awards, and reviews all scream epic. I was expecting something deep, meaningful, and memorable. Gaiman's writing talent teased me nearly all the way through that this was indeed what I was reading, yet it never quite delivered. Instead of a memorable epic, what I finally discovered in American Gods was a well-written and enjoyable pulp novel that felt much closer to a particularly well done Stephen King story than it did to an important mythological epic.<br />I did enjoy reading American Gods. Neil Gaiman is a talented writer, and if you are a fan, you will probably want to read it as well. But be warned to limit your expectations. Despite its length and hype, this book is not an epic, mythic or otherwise. File this one on your bookshelf beside King's The Stand rather than putting it beside Tolkien, Joseph Campbell, or Jung.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2005-01-10
US	47624974	RX5R6DZ6BD6TW	0195170342	74776758	Washington's Crossing (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	74	75	N	N	Absolutely Essential & Eminently Readable	Washington's Crossing is at once both rich with detail and eminently readable, scholarly, yet approachable. In it, the author covers the period from which Washington took control of the Colonial army, through the disastrous, nearly fatal campaign in New York, to the Battles of Trenton, Princeton, and finally the forage war skirmishes that rage through the end of the winter of 1776-77. He illustrates how this winter campaign of Washington's was much more than the small, symbolic victory that it has often been characterized as; that it in fact had a major impact on the war by destroying the Howe brother's strategy of ending the Revolution through conciliation, and reviving the spirits of the Americans to fight on.<br />Fischer begins with an examination of the make up of the Colonial army, with its wide sectional and cultural differences, and examines the daunting task Washington had in forging it into an effective fighting force capable of fighting the world's most professional and successful army. He then goes into some detail describing the make up and culture of the British army and the Hessian forces that the Americans faced, giving a context to the challenge. Washington emerges from his pages as a genius simply for being able to adapt to the situation at hand and create and lead what became the Continental Army.<br />Fischer is vividly descriptive in his portraits of Washington and his officers, the Howe brothers and their principle officers, and the commanders of the Hessian forces. In addition, he provides the perspectives of common soldiers from all the armies, private citizens, members of the Continental Congress, and Tom Paine, the Revolution's propagandist who was pivotal in the success of the winter campaign.<br />Washington's Crossing is rich in illustrations and contains adequate and readable maps. It has copious note, an excellent bibliography, and several fascinating and useful appendices that add many additional layers of information to the text.<br />I would rank this as one of the most informative, well-written, and fascinating books that I have ever read on the American Revolution, and I would consider it essential to a full understanding of the Revolution. Fischer has crafted a masterpiece that you cannot afford to miss. This book receives my highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosthis as one of the most informative, well-written, and fascinating books that I have ever read on the American Revolution, and I would consider it essential to a full understanding of the Revolution. Fischer has crafted a masterpiece that you cannot afford to miss. This book receives my highest recommendation.     Theo Logos	2005-01-10
US	47624974	R345K3MVZFV26Y	0252070690	29250213	The Militant South, 1800-1861	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Antebellum Bellicosity	The Militant South attempts an examination of the social and cultural traits in the antebellum South that made the Civil War possible, if not inevitable. If you cling to some variant of the Lost Cause and believe that the war had little or nothing to do with slavery, and was primarily caused by unwarranted Northern aggression against Southern rights, this book is not for you, as it will only raise your blood pressure. Nor do you need to read any further into this review, as neither the review nor the book is likely to alter your belief. All others, I believe, will find Franklin's book a thoughtful and probing examination of a bellicose and militant culture that was nearly as peculiar as the South's peculiar institution of slavery.<br />Franklin examines the roots of militant culture in the South, from the needs arising from existing along a wild frontier and clashes with natives, to the fact that civil government was rarely very developed there, and individuals had to learn to be sufficient to defend themselves in its absence. He examines in some depth how the presence of slavery encouraged this militancy, providing a source of constant fear (slave revolts), and conditioning the habit of being absolute master of others into the slave-holding class almost from their cradles. He also explores thoroughly the code of personal honor that was unique to the South, and the dueling and deadly fights that grew from that code.<br />One of the most rewarding sections of Franklin's work is his chapter on the filibusters. These adventurers provided an outlet for the martial feelings of the South while attempting to create a Southern empire where the values and institutions of the South could expand into a greater sphere. The small, private wars launched by filibusters against Mexico, Cuba, and Nicaragua, financed by those hoping to expand the South's interests are a fascinating and often neglected part of our history.<br />Franklin is a skillfull writer, and his book is readable as well as informative. In a few chapters, such as the one in which he examines the military schools of the South, his writing becomes repetitive simply from the large number of examples that he gives that are all so similar. But aside from that, his writing is captivating, and draws the reader in. His book ends as abruptly as the War began.<br />This is a valuable book for those who are interested in how the great national tragedy of the Civil War came upon us. It is by no means the whole story, but presents one piece of the large, complicated, and lethal puzzle that launched the deadliest war in the nation's history.<br /><br />Theo Logosinformative. In a few chapters, such as the one in which he examines the military schools of the South, his writing becomes repetitive simply from the large number of examples that he gives that are all so similar. But aside from that, his writing is captivating, and draws the reader in. His book ends as abruptly as the War began.  This is a valuable book for those who are interested in how the great national tragedy of the Civil War came upon us. It is by no means the whole story, but presents one piece of the large, complicated, and lethal puzzle that launched the deadliest war in the nation's history.     Theo Logos	2004-12-31
US	47624974	R2ECMAC6CLQW7J	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Pratchett Delivers	It was Aesop who once said; \\"We hang the petty thieves, but appoint the great ones to public office.\\" The unfortunately named confidence man extrordinare Moist Van Lipwig was truly special - he was hanged and then appointed to office - the Post Office. Thus begins Terry Pratchett's latest hilarious offering in his long running Discworld series.<br />Pratchett uses all the trappings of fantasy in his novels. In Going Postal you will encounter golem parole officers, werewolves on the city watch, vampire photographers, and banshee hit men. And oh yes, the world is flat, supported on the backs of elephants standing on a giant turtle swimming through space. Pratchett uses all of this as amusing window dressing as he questions, examines, and hilariously deconstructs conventions of our world. This time out he is tackling the questions of brilliant but problematic technology, corporate greed, the effects of an uncontrolled free market system, bureaucratic disasters, and government officials using religion as a political tool. And yes, he is also examining if it takes a clever crook to make a government agency run right. Not to worry though - Pratchett has a light touch, and is never preachy. The candy covering of his stories is so sweet that you might not notice that he has made you think about anything more important until it is too late!<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-12-02
US	47624974	R1PR5FFNEIVB3C	0743255410	173195196	Co. Aytch: A Confederate Memoir of the Civil War	Books	5	33	34	N	N	War Stories by the Hearth	Twenty years after participating in the war that reshaped American history forever, Sam Watkins sat down to write his memoirs, without benefit of journal or notes. He commenced his tale with a short, folksy parable of the cause of the war, as Southerners saw it. He then quickly launched into telling the tale as he viewed it - not from the heights of a general officer, but from the mud and dust covered ground-eye view of a common \\"webfoot\\" infantry soldier. In doing so, he created what is perhaps the best, most readable, and most compelling account of a Civil War infantry man that has ever seen print.<br />Watkins told his tale in an easy, conversational style. The book is not written as a single narrative, but as a collection of tales and memories, just as he might have told them to friends and family around his hearth. His antidotal style put side by side humorous tales and the horrors of war that he observed, showing how casual a thing gruesome death became to a soldier. He wrote with great feeling, telling the reader when recalling a particular incident left him overwhelmed with emotion still after twenty years, and constantly referencing his religious faith that he would someday see all of his fallen comrades again in a better world. He hid nothing of himself, and that candid emotion sets his book apart, and gives it its greatness.<br />This book is not a history, per say. Watkins constantly reminded his readers of this. It is a collection of impressions of what it was like to be one of the little men doing the shooting and killing - the men who history mostly overlooks. \\"Co Aytch\\" fills in the yawning gaps of how war is really fought and experienced that you will never find in any general's memoirs. This book is essential for a full understanding of the Civil War, and it is a pleasure and a joy to read. I highly recommend it.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-12-01
US	47624974	R2HBBSV0Y5A888	1586481843	626448035	Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom	Books	5	39	44	N	N	Essential Bio of an American Colossus	After reading Conrad Black's Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom, it is hard for me to imagine a better, more comprehensive or more balanced biography of FDR. Roosevelt's life generally inspires biographies that are either hagiographic or hatchet jobs. Black disdains these simplistic interpretations. What he gives us instead is an incredibly detailed, strongly opinionated, but remarkably fair analysis of the man who was perhaps the greatest of twentieth century America's giants.<br />This is a massive book, running to 1134 pages. Rather than concentrating on a particular aspect of Roosevelt's life or career, Black has tackled the whole of it, both public and private. Roosevelt's pedigree and privileged childhood, his schooling, complex marriage, family relationships, rise in politics, life-changing illness, and presidency are all covered here in great detail. The significant appointments, political moves policies and legislation,  political allies and enemies, and the crisis of each of his four presidential terms are covered in depth. Black writes engagingly, and does a masterful job of turning what could have been dull, dry details into a fascinating tale of political gamesmanship.<br />Black's FDR is compelling and complex. Born to privilege, the last great American figure to follow the old code of noblesse oblige, Roosevelt seems to have been genuinely concerned with the welfare of the masses, while at the same time being curiously indifferent to the feelings of those he knew personally. While not an intellectual, he possessed the most remarkable political instincts of any man of his time. Both gregarious and aloof, visionary and Machiavellian, he was, as he himself noted, sphinx-like and unfathomable.<br />Black has written what is sure to become the definitive biography of Franklin Roosevelt - immediate required reading for all that would study his life. Though written to appeal to both the scholar and those with a general interest, it is not the biography to read if you have only a casual interest in FDR and wish a quick introduction to his life. Black's tour de force biography comes very close to saying everything that needs to be or can be said about Roosevelt's amazing life. It is powerful, provocative, and highly recommended.<br /><br />Theo Logosead if you have only a casual interest in FDR and wish a quick introduction to his life. Black's tour de force biography comes very close to saying everything that needs to be or can be said about Roosevelt's amazing life. It is powerful, provocative, and highly recommended.    Theo Logos	2004-12-01
US	47624974	R1ZMXKGLWPL8FV	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Philosophers Have Right of Way	If there is truth to the old adage that humor is simply tragedy revisited, then Terry Pratchett's Small Gods may be the world's funniest books. Pratchett has revisited the whole bloody history of religion, philosophy, government, and science as they are put to use in the service of war, death, and destruction, and served them up as a feast of knowing smiles, wicked grins, meaningful chuckles, spontaneous laughter, and a couple of uncontrollable guffaws for desert. But be warned, if you don't find it palatable to mix a bit of thinking and contemplation with your laughter, you might want to pass on this one.<br />Pratchett may be a philosopher disguised as a fantasy novelist and humorist. He gives us characters that brilliantly capture the gamut of human endeavor, from the pure malice of Vorbis, the true believer inquisitor, to the equally pure humanity of Brutha, the peasant prophet of brotherly love. He shows a keen understanding of the entire muddle in between, where most of us dwell, as well. He dissects the nature of belief and the relationship that humans have to their gods and vice-a-versa. And he shows exactly why the best human instincts so rarely win out in the end and what could happen when they do. Along the way, he scatters a plethora of erudite and silly jokes like land mines. Dissertations could be written on this book, but that would miss the point.<br />Avoid this book if you are adverse to cleverness and hilarity. Otherwise, put your hands on a copy post haste and join the delighted initiates of Pratchett's marvelous and witty world.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-11-21
US	47624974	R1WTQPU575WBJA	0803212739	728986739	The Chessboard of War: Sherman and Hood in the Autumn Campaigns of 1864 (Great Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Perceptive Perspective	Anne J. Bailey's The Chessboard of War doesn't break any new ground on the subject that it covers, nor at only 181 pages does it make any attempt at being a comprehensive and detailed campaign study. Joseph T. Glatthaar and Burke Davis have written defining books on Sherman's March to the Sea, and Wiley Sword's The Confederacy's Last Hurrah is the definitive volume on Hood's 1864 fall campaign in Tennessee. So why read this book? In a word: perspective. Bailey has grasped the direct connection of Sherman's historic march through Georgia and Hood's desperate last ditch gamble offensive campaign in Tennessee, and has written about them together, as part of the same piece. Sending General Thomas and a portion of his army back to Tennessee to take care of Hood was a crucial element of Sherman's plan to march on Savannah. Bailey puts the pieces together, and assesses the success and failure of the players involved.<br />Bailey writes well and her book is a quick and easy read. While Chessboard does not cover its subject in great depth or provide any startling or controversial new takes on any of the commanders involved, it does serve as an excellent introduction to this material. It also provides continuity, allowing the reader to keep track of the two mighty armies that struggled for months over Atlanta, and see how their fates were still connected even after disentangling from each other and moving in separate directions.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in how the Civil War was won in the West. For the novice, it is a quick yet accurate introduction to the subject of  Sherman's and Hood's 1864 Autumn campaigns, and for the more serious student it provides an excellent perspective that has not been much explored elsewhere.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-11-19
US	47624974	R3G6FGIO7WH2Y7	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	213	227	N	N	A Balanced Introduction	His Excellency George Washington attempts to free Washington from the frozen icon/monument status that has gathered around his name, and presents him to the reader as an approachable, flesh and blood portrait. Joseph Ellis accomplishes this goal admirably. Most notably, he manages to steer cleanly between Charybdis and Scylla, avoiding the twin errors of portraying his subject as a saint, or its opposite, which he describes in his prefaces as \\"the deadest, whitest male in American history.\\" He accomplishes this in a modest 275 pages, which makes this book an ideal introduction for someone beginning to study the life of Washington.<br />The central thesis of this work is that Washington's amazing career was driven by an enlightened self-interest, tempered by a hard-earned practical wisdom. Always sticking closely to the available evidence, Ellis shows us a young Washington full of unbounded ambition for wealth and social status that he learned to control and temper, but never eliminate. Ellis writes that, \\"ambition this gargantuan were only glorious if harnessed to a cause larger than oneself, which they most assuredly were after 1775.\\" He shows us Washington as a self-educated man, not from books like his illustrious contemporary Ben Franklin, but from practical, visceral experiences of his youth fighting the French and Indians in the backcountry of Pennsylvania. He views Washington's inglorious defeat at the Great Meadows and his miraculous survival of the carnage of Braddock's massacre as critical events that freed him of illusions, and left him a man who viewed the world through practical realities rather than shimmering ideals. This practical education, working on his natural ambition, created the control mechanisms that allowed Washington to serve his nation so long and so well.<br />Ellis writes mainly of the public Washington. He begins the book not with Washington's birth, but at the point in his youth when he first appeared on the world stage. While the short length of the book limits the depth of its inquiry, it does manage to touch on most every important aspect of Washington's public life, including his positions on dealings with the American Indians, and his evolving ideas about the injustice of slavery. There are many other books that can provide more in depth and comprehensive accounts of Washington. This book serves as an outstanding, balanced introduction to the man we call the father of our country, and is an excellent place to begin.<br /><br />Theo Logosth of the book limits the depth of its inquiry, it does manage to touch on most every important aspect of Washington's public life, including his positions on dealings with the American Indians, and his evolving ideas about the injustice of slavery. There are many other books that can provide more in depth and comprehensive accounts of Washington. This book serves as an outstanding, balanced introduction to the man we call the father of our country, and is an excellent place to begin.    Theo Logos	2004-11-16
US	47624974	R9VQYQJ5E84OM	080213064X	353044516	Citizen Tom Paine	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Tom Paine - a Founder for the Common Man	The Tom Paine who Howard Fast creates in his excellent historical novel Citizen Tom Paine is not a traditionally sympathetic character. He is a course peasant with a chip on his shoulder, full of self-pity, usually rash, and often drunk, dirty, and mean. Yet through all of that, a fierce, pure light shines, that makes him the most compelling of characters, and an unlikely inspiring hero. Fast writes of him, \\"in the unshaven, hook-nosed, wigless head, there was something both fierce and magnificent, a grinding savagery that might be sculptured as the whole meaning of revolution, unrest and cruelty combine with a deep-etched pattern of human suffering and understanding.\\" This Paine is good only for revolution, a continually lonely wanderer, who says that the world is his village, and wherever freedom is not, there he will be. He is the prophet of the age of the common man, old \\"Common Sense\\". And in the end, despite all that he contributed to liberty and his fellow citizen of three nations, he is forsaken by all to die alone, and even his bones are given no rest.<br />Fast surrounds Paine with a great cast of historical personages - Franklin, Washington, Jefferson, Burke, Blake, Marat, Robespierre, and Bonaparte among others - all men that Paine knew and moved among. They are all bit characters here, though. Whatever their worldly greatness, in Citizen Tom Paine they serve only to provide background to this great monolith of peasant philosopher revolutionary. Likewise, Fast convincingly shows us the world's first two great democratic revolutions, but only as they are viewed through the fierce eyes of Tom Paine. (This view is not entirely the one that you may have studied in school.) Everything else in this novel fades into the background as it keeps a tight focus on this amazing, sad man, who always had the courage of his convictions, no matter what price must be paid.<br />Paine is arguably the most neglected of America's founders. His frank writings on religion in his book The Age of Reason made him a pariah in his last days in America, and blackened his name here for over 100 years. Howard Fast has done an excellent job of rescuing Paine from that unfair obscurity, and presenting him as a complex, troubled, but fiercely honest hero for the common man. When I first read this book over twenty years ago, it gave me a new hero, and I have since read Paine's works and biographies, so I would say that Fast did his work well. Read it yourself to discover the brilliant character that Fast created, and then go out and discover the Tom Paine of history. Neither will disappoint you.<br /><br />Theo LogosThe Age of Reason made him a pariah in his last days in America, and blackened his name here for over 100 years. Howard Fast has done an excellent job of rescuing Paine from that unfair obscurity, and presenting him as a complex, troubled, but fiercely honest hero for the common man. When I first read this book over twenty years ago, it gave me a new hero, and I have since read Paine's works and biographies, so I would say that Fast did his work well. Read it yourself to discover the brilliant character that Fast created, and then go out and discover the Tom Paine of history. Neither will disappoint you.    Theo Logos	2004-11-11
US	47624974	R2708WORJKSIKI	070060748X	809880535	Decision in the West: The Atlanta Campaign of 1864 (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Truly Outstanding!	Decision in the West has been widely and lavishly praised, and it deserves every bit of it. Albert Castel has not only written the most thoroughly researched and most comprehensive history of the Atlanta Campaign, but has also done it with clear, captivating prose that flows easily across the page, keeping the reader enthralled to the very end. He uses the present tense throughout the book, which lends a fascinating immediacy to the story, even though we know the outcome.<br />Were I to try to sketch all of the many virtues of this brilliant book here, this review would be prohibitively long, so I will limit myself to two. First, Castel has written what is arguably the best, most objective modern account of the actual battles of the campaign. In the preface he writes that as he was researching this book, he was, \\"astonished, then exasperated, when, upon delving into the sources, I discovered that all of the existing descriptions of these battles, ...were to a greater or lesser degree filled with mistakes, misconceptions, and myths.\\" His painstaking research reaches beyond the myths and self-serving memoirs of the participants, comparing all the available sources against each other to arrive as close as is objectively possible at the actual facts of these battles. He presents each battle and his analysis of it in a clear fashion, complete with easy to read, truly helpful maps. This alone would qualify Decision in the West as a must-read book.<br />Secondly, Castel provides a thoughtful reassessment of the commanders involved. His take on the Confederate General Johnston is the closest to received wisdom. He views Johnston as a skilled general when on the defensive, whose fatal flaw was being over-awed when outnumbered, and prone to surrendering to a defeatist attitude that assured his failure. General Hood fares better here than in most histories. Castel believes that Hood's major mistake was in consistently trying to accomplish too much with too little, but doesn't believe that he had much of any alternative, considering the situation that he inherited, and what his government expected of him. Hood emerges from Castel's book as a man who did as much as could possibly be expected of him with his admittedly limited talent.<br />It is the Union commanders who receive the greatest reevaluation here. General Hooker was hated by Sherman, and is usually greatly underrated by historians. Yet, Castel views him as one of the most effective of Sherman's generals during the Atlanta campaign, and presents evidence to prove it. General McPherson, personal friend of both Sherman and Grant, and greatly respected by both of them, receives the harshest reevaluation. Castel writes of him, \\"his record throughout the campaign demonstrates that in commanding what in effect was a large corp, he had reached and perhaps exceeded the limits of his military ability: he worried too much about what might be on the other side of the hill.\\" After reading Castel's accounts of McPherson's missed opportunities, it is hard to disagree. Of General Thomas, Castel writes, \\"had Thomas's personal relationship with Grant permitted him to command in Georgia in 1864, almost surely the Union victory would have been easier, quicker, and more complete.\\" He clearly believes Thomas to be the unutilized genius of the campaign. Finally, General Sherman appears more tarnished than golden in Castel's pages. He writes that Sherman was a general who did not like to fight, preferred raiding over fighting, and was unwilling to engage his full force. Though he acknowledges that Sherman accomplished what was expected of him, he gives ample evidence that he did not do it nearly as efficiently as he could have, and questions his reputation as a military genius, second only to Grant in the Union.<br />Decision in the West should be required reading for anyone with an interest in the Atlanta campaign. It is well written, fascinating, exhaustively researched, and thought provoking. It cannot be considered anything other than the decisive existing volume on this crucial aspect of the Civil War. It receives my very highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosred anything other than the decisive existing volume on this crucial aspect of the Civil War. It receives my very highest recommendation.    Theo Logos	2004-11-08
US	47624974	R2TEKKMGLMN70H	0700605673	220774724	Jefferson Davis and His Generals: The Failure of Confederate Command in the West (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Boldly Written Account of a Crucial Subject	Seemingly endless Civil War books are written rehashing every minute move of Robert E. Lee and his Army of Northern Virginia. There are far fewer that cover the situation of the Confederacy's western armies and generals, despite, or perhaps because of the fact that it was in the west that the Confederacy lost the war. With Jefferson Davis and His Generals: The Failure of Confederate Command in the West, Steven E. Woodworth steps up to fill this gap with a first rate book that every serious student of the Civil War should read. He presents a clear and reasoned argument that the failure of the Confederacy in the west was not due to the quality or quantity of its armies or even of its supplies, but a direct result of a monumental failure in its high command.<br /> Woodworth writes of Jefferson Davis as a man who seemed to be eminently and uniquely qualified to become commander in chief of the Confederacy. He was a West Point graduate, a Mexican War hero, had served as a particularly effective secretary of war under President Franklin Pierce, and had been a United States senator. He understood politics, and he clearly understood war. His resolve for his cause, like his loyalty to his friends, was unshakable. Contained within these impressive qualifications and traits, however, were flaws and blind spots that would severely hinder Davis' management of the war in the west, where he had no Lee to take charge. Foremost of these faults was a lack of judgement when appointing friends as generals, and unreasonable loyalty to them thereafter. Compounding these problems was a fierce pride in his own military judgement that left him unable to acknowledge and correct mistakes. Finally, his pride led him into bitter personal feuds with key generals that hindered his ability to utilize them to the fullest.<br />Woodworth follows Davis' moves in the west, from his initial organization of the Western theater, through the high stakes game played and eventually lost to gain Kentucky for the Confederacy, to the crisis at Shiloh, where with the death of General Albert Sidney Johnston, the Western Confederacy lost its best hope for competent command. The catastrophe of the loss of Vicksburg, the disastrous infighting among the generals under Bragg in the Army of Tennessee, the loss of Tennessee, the Atlanta Campaign, and Hood's final failed campaign are all covered. In each instance, Woodworth notes the command decisions that Davis made, or failed to make, in the crisis. At the end of each chapter, he summarizes and critiques Davis' performance, highlighting areas where Davis was at least partly responsible for the problems, as well as pointing out where he performed as well as could have been expected.<br />Woodworth clearly has a strongly opinionated point of view. He is nearly unique among the Civil War historians that I have read in his spirited defense of General Braxton Bragg as a competent commander, and lays all of the blame for the failure of Bragg's campaigns on incompetent and insubordinate generals under his command, chiefly Davis' personal friend General Leonidas Polk. He also repeatedly accused General Joseph Johnston of lacking a will to win, and of never believing that the Confederacy could win the war. While many will disagree with these positions, his boldness in stating them is characteristic of the bold approach that is evident throughout his book.<br />Jefferson Davis and His Generals is a bold, original work, that addresses a theme that is too often neglected in Civil War studies. It is consistently engaging, insightful, and controversial. It is clearly written, well researched, and a pleasure to read. I consider it to be among the very best books that I have read on the Civil War, and would recommend it highly, especially to those with a specific interest in the war in the west.<br /><br />Theo Logosfederacy, to the crisis at Shiloh, where with the death of General Albert Sidney Johnston, the Western Confederacy lost its best hope for competent command. The catastrophe of the loss of Vicksburg, the disastrous infighting among the generals under Bragg in the Army of Tennessee, the loss of Tennessee, the Atlanta Campaign, and Hood's final failed campaign are all covered. In each instance, Woodworth notes the command decisions that Davis made, or failed to make, in the crisis. At the end of each chapter, he summarizes and critiques Davis' performance, highlighting areas where Davis was at least partly responsible for the problems, as well as pointing out where he performed as well as could have been expected.  Woodworth clearly has a strongly opinionated point of view. He is nearly unique among the Civil War historians that I have read in his spirited defense of General Braxton Bragg as a competent commander, and lays all of the blame for the failure of Bragg's campaigns on incompetent and insubordinate generals under his command, chiefly Davis' personal friend General Leonidas Polk. He also repeatedly accused General Joseph Johnston of lacking a will to win, and of never believing that the Confederacy could win the war. While many will disagree with these positions, his boldness in stating them is characteristic of the bold approach that is evident throughout his book.   Jefferson Davis and His Generals is a bold, original work, that addresses a theme that is too often neglected in Civil War studies. It is consistently engaging, insightful, and controversial. It is clearly written, well researched, and a pleasure to read. I consider it to be among the very best books that I have read on the Civil War, and would recommend it highly, especially to those with a specific interest in the war in the west.          Theo Logos	2004-11-03
US	47624974	R5VFGCEHQ4F0W	0393314839	559072290	The Boston Massacre	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Fascinating History Replacing Legend and Propaganda	With his book The Boston Massacre, Hiller B. Zobel presents a masterful piece of reasoned, historical research to dispel one of the great myths surrounding the beginnings of the American Revolution. Zobel writes, \\"The Boston Massacre, in short, is a part, not only of our national history, but of our national mythology. ...Not the least of the Massacre's attractions as an object of historic contemplation is the speed with which the men of 1770 (on both sides of the Atlantic and both sides of the political fence) recognized the mythological value of what happened in King Street.\\" Layer by layer, Zoble peels away myth and propaganda surrounding that infamous event of March fifth, 1770, so that we can view it clearly, apart from any partisan spin. What remains is an incident with little resemblance to the legend most of us learned in school.<br />Zobel carefully and exhaustively explains the events that led up to the violence on King Street, and introduces us to all the principle players who influenced the drama. He details the Sugar Act, the Stamp Act, and the Customs Duties, all of which stirred up anger and resentment in Boston, and he tells of the violence and the threat of violence that was used by Boston's radical elements to try to counter these acts. Most importantly, he explains why the British soldiers were in Boston in the first place. (The Massachusetts Colony had no provision for an armed civil police force, and when mob violence threatened the laws and the peace as they did during the protests of the Stamp Act and Custom Duties, the only legal recourse to counter it was a military presence.)<br />The picture of the Boston Massacre that emerges from Zobel's book is not the classic one of ruthless British soldiers callously firing on a peaceably gathered crowd of citizens as the legend has it. Rather, he paints a picture of frightened and confused troops, backed into a corner by an angry mob that already had a reputation for perpetuating violence, and firing in confusion rather than on order. The fact that the story came down to us in the form of the legend of righteous citizens attacked by evil soldiers owes much to the propaganda abilities of Samuel Adams, and little to facts as they happened.<br />Just as carefully as he explained the events leading up to the massacre, Zobel details its aftermath, most notably the trial of the soldiers who fired on the mob. As an Associate Professor of Law at Boston College Law School, Zobel is well qualified to understand and dissect this chapter of the drama, and he explains it clearly and concisely. He shows us why John Adams took on the defense of the British soldiers, and why he won his case. Through detailing the records of the trial, he leaves the popular legend of the massacre in shreds.<br />The Boston Massacre is an important book for understanding the events that ultimately brought the colonies to revolt. It is well researched, with a good bibliography. Zobel's writing is clear, and he has a knack for holding the reader's interest even through long and detailed passages. I would recommend this book to anyone with more than a passing interest in America's late colonial period and revolution - it will not disappoint them.<br /><br />Theo Logosusion rather than on order. The fact that the story came down to us in the form of the legend of righteous citizens attacked by evil soldiers owes much to the propaganda abilities of Samuel Adams, and little to facts as they happened.  Just as carefully as he explained the events leading up to the massacre, Zobel details its aftermath, most notably the trial of the soldiers who fired on the mob. As an Associate Professor of Law at Boston College Law School, Zobel is well qualified to understand and dissect this chapter of the drama, and he explains it clearly and concisely. He shows us why John Adams took on the defense of the British soldiers, and why he won his case. Through detailing the records of the trial, he leaves the popular legend of the massacre in shreds.  The Boston Massacre is an important book for understanding the events that ultimately brought the colonies to revolt. It is well researched, with a good bibliography. Zobel's writing is clear, and he has a knack for holding the reader's interest even through long and detailed passages. I would recommend this book to anyone with more than a passing interest in America's late colonial period and revolution - it will not disappoint them.    Theo Logos	2004-11-02
US	47624974	R21APSNDOLML7O	067975833X	289325498	Confederates in the Attic: Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It Didn't End With Appomattox	Confederates in the Attic is simply outstanding. Entertaining and thought provoking, by turns disturbing and laugh out loud funny, it is by far the best book that I have read this year. Tony Horwitz has combined travel writing, a humorous look at an odd hobby, and an insightful examination of deep, sectional differences that still divide our nation nearly a century and a half after the end of our Civil War. Along the way, he shines  light into some of the darker corners of our national psyche, and holds up a mirror for us all to examine ourselves and how we respond to these issues.<br />Civil War re-enactors served as Horwitz's launching point for this fine book. It was his encounter with a group of re-enactors that initially re-ignited his childhood fascination with the Civil War, and eventually led to this book. He joined a group of \\"hard-core\\" re-enactors, a fringe elite inside re-enactor circles that go to gargantuan lengths to achieve authenticity, and heap scorn on anyone who does not do the same. He marched with them in period costumes complete with authentic stench, ate their rancid food, and slept with them, huddled together in the bitter cold under the stars. He shows us their world, where achieving a connection with an imagined lost past, chasing after a transcendent state that some of them call \\"\\"wargasm\\", is more important, more real than anything else they do in their lives.<br />While with the re-enactors, Horwitz conceived the idea for this book. He writes, \\"the scheme I'd plotted while spooning in the night was to spend a year at war, searching out the places and people who kept memory of the conflict alive in the present day.\\" As almost all of the war happened below the Mason and Dixon line, this meant spending a year travelling around the South. Throughout his travels, his discoveries ranged from the ridiculous to the sublime. He attended a celebration of Robert E. Lee's birthday, where throw -back believers still indoctrinate their children with an official Lost Cause catechism (\\"Q. What causes led to the War Between the States? A. The disregard of those in power for the rights of the Southern States. Q. What was the feeling of the slaves toward their masters? A. They were faithful and devoted and were always ready and willing to serve them.\\"). He investigated conflicts, where Civil War symbols such as a Rebel mascot in a school or the Confederate battle flag were tearing communities apart, even when those involved had little or no knowledge of the actual history behind the symbols. (The battle flag incident actually prompted the murder of a young man.) And he visited a town in Georgia, where the streets are named after Civil War generals both North and South, and that was founded specifically in the hope of reconciliation and the healing of old wounds.<br />The greatest strength of Horwitz's book is the fascinating people that he introduces to us. No matter what their beliefs, he always manages to show us their humanity, and never reduces them to caricatures, no matter how fringe their ideas or practices may be. Because he refuses to patronize his subjects, his critique of them is all the more powerful.<br />With Confederates in the Attic, Tony Horwitz has written a first-rate book that is wonderfully entertaining and greatly informative. He raises questions about divisiveness in our nation that all of us should thoughtfully consider. It is a book that you will love to read, and hate to finish. It has my highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logoscial Lost Cause catechism (\\"Q. What causes led to the War Between the States? A. The disregard of those in power for the rights of the Southern States. Q. What was the feeling of the slaves toward their masters? A. They were faithful and devoted and were always ready and willing to serve them.\\"). He investigated conflicts, where Civil War symbols such as a Rebel mascot in a school or the Confederate battle flag were tearing communities apart, even when those involved had little or no knowledge of the actual history behind the symbols. (The battle flag incident actually prompted the murder of a young man.) And he visited a town in Georgia, where the streets are named after Civil War generals both North and South, and that was founded specifically in the hope of reconciliation and the healing of old wounds.   The greatest strength of Horwitz's book is the fascinating people that he introduces to us. No matter what their beliefs, he always manages to show us their humanity, and never reduces them to caricatures, no matter how fringe their ideas or practices may be. Because he refuses to patronize his subjects, his critique of them is all the more powerful.   With Confederates in the Attic, Tony Horwitz has written a first-rate book that is wonderfully entertaining and greatly informative. He raises questions about divisiveness in our nation that all of us should thoughtfully consider. It is a book that you will love to read, and hate to finish. It has my highest recommendation.     Theo Logos	2004-11-01
US	47624974	RYMQB8CNJDTG9	0803257791	823263322	Alamo (Bison Book S)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Excellent Background, and a Strong Voice to Tell the Tale	John Myers Myers, in the last sentences of his book, The Alamo, perfectly captures the essence of what this story means to America. He writes, \\"The Alamo isn't a structure now; it is a symbol of valor in the minds of men. It can never fall again.\\" Though he closes with that thought, it is obvious that he wrote this history with the knowledge that this particular event is just as important as myth as it is as history, and that it presents unique challenges to the historian to distinguish between the two. In the forward, he addresses the issue of how hard it is to find solid, historical evidence about the Alamo. The combatants were killed to a man, and as for the non-combatants who survived to tell their tales, none were professional writers, and no historian bothered to interviewed any of them during their lifetimes. He explains in some detail how he decided the veracity of the various surviving source materials: letters, journals, official orders of the Mexican officers, and interviews of survivors. He then launches into the tale.<br />Myers divides his book into three sections. The first third is devoted to the history of the structure of the Alamo, from mission to military outpost, and to the history of the roots of the conflict between the Texians and Mexico. This is vital information to understanding what happened at Bexar during those fateful twelve days in 1836. The fact that Myers devotes so many pages to explaining this background and placing the story in its proper historical context is one of the books strongest points.<br />In the second third of the book, Myers introduces the principal players who history associates with the Alamo - Bowie, Travis, Crockett, and Santa Anna. A chapter is devoted to each of them, and Myers does an admirable job of placing each within the context of their own personal histories without resorting to what later became so controversial as detracting \\"revisionism\\". He notes that while Bowie and Crockett were already legends in their own time, that Travis' fame is tied exclusively to his participation in the Texian revolution. He solidly establishes who they were as flesh and blood men, rather than the demigods of myth that they became, yet does so respectfully. Likewise, he paints a balanced portrait of Santa Anna rather than simply demonizing him.<br />In the book's final section, Myers writes skillfully of the siege and storming of the Alamo. It is a tale that comes with its own in-built drama, which requires only an expert storyteller to assure its success, and Myers is indeed an outstanding storyteller. He has an idiosyncratic style of writing that lends itself perfectly to the telling of this particular tale. Throughout, he is generally faithful to the more traditional interpretations of what happened at Bexar, but does acknowledge some of the elements that smack more of legend than of historical fact (such as Travis' saber-drawn line in the sand).<br />Myers has written a fine history of an event that has become an indispensable part of our national mythology. His research is firm, his writing style captivating, and his tone respectful to both the history and the legend. I heartily recommend it.<br /><br />Theo Logostime, that Travis' fame is tied exclusively to his participation in the Texian revolution. He solidly establishes who they were as flesh and blood men, rather than the demigods of myth that they became, yet does so respectfully. Likewise, he paints a balanced portrait of Santa Anna rather than simply demonizing him.  In the book's final section, Myers writes skillfully of the siege and storming of the Alamo. It is a tale that comes with its own in-built drama, which requires only an expert storyteller to assure its success, and Myers is indeed an outstanding storyteller. He has an idiosyncratic style of writing that lends itself perfectly to the telling of this particular tale. Throughout, he is generally faithful to the more traditional interpretations of what happened at Bexar, but does acknowledge some of the elements that smack more of legend than of historical fact (such as Travis' saber-drawn line in the sand).  Myers has written a fine history of an event that has become an indispensable part of our national mythology. His research is firm, his writing style captivating, and his tone respectful to both the history and the legend. I heartily recommend it.    Theo Logos	2004-10-30
US	47624974	R3L0MP08YU3VWN	0689846932	424543497	Abiyoyo Book and CD	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Tale Perfectly Suited to Young Imaginations	Abiyoyo was an African folktale, adapted by folk singer Pete Seeger as a bedtime story for his children, and later used in his concerts. The story is brilliant in its gripping simplicity, perfectly suited to capture the attention of small children and spark their imaginations. A little boy who plays the ukulele and his father, who plays tricks on people by using a magic wand to make things disappear are run out of town because they are annoying everyone. Then a giant from the old days, who eats people alive, comes and threatens the town, and it is only the little boy and his dad, using the very talents that had annoyed everyone, who save the day, and become heroes.<br />This book is the very favorite of my two pre-school boys. Everyday they bring it to me repeatedly asking me to read it to them. Every night, they request it as their last bedtime story (the story is easy to memorize, and lends itself well to personal adaptations). My four-year old will \\"read\\" the book himself, turning through the pages and repeating the story that he has memorized. Abiyoyo has captured their imaginations, and even entered into their play.<br />The book's illustrations are intriguing. As I mentioned, this story was adapted from an African folktale, and the boy and his father are depicted appropriately in character. But the illustrator depicts the town in which they live as a global village, with the residents being of many races and cultures, all wearing classic costumes of those cultures. Originally, this concept put me off a bit - an impossible mish-mash village that seemed little more than a sop to political correctness for kids. But as I watched my kids react to the book, my opinion changed. The multitude of customs stirred their curiosity, and as I answered their questions about each one, I realized that these illustrations provided an excellent tool for introducing them to the concept of different cultures.<br />This is a quality product - a great, simple story, creative illustrations, and a nice CD included with two versions of Pete Seeger telling the story in his own voice. My boys and I give it our highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosa nice CD included with two versions of Pete Seeger telling the story in his own voice. My boys and I give it our highest recommendation.     Theo Logos	2004-10-29
US	47624974	R2KU97TAQYC10U	0394757637	108668770	Sherman's March: The First Full-Length Narrative of General William T. Sherman's Devastating March through Georgia and the Carolinas	Books	5	78	83	N	N	A Balanced Account of War's Terrible End Game	When Lincoln won the election of 1864, any reasonable hope of winning the war, even of the most optimistic of Southerners, vanished.  Yet still, they fought on, drawing out the bloody end game though its conclusion was already a certainty. General William T. Sherman had long considered that the war could not be won without completely breaking the will of the Southern people to continue fighting, and now, he was certain of it. His answer was to take war to the civilians - to pillage, burn, and destroy a large swath through Georgia and the Carolinas, mostly unopposed by any significant enemy resistance. Burke Davis' book, Sherman's March, grippingly tells the story of this dark chapter of American history.<br />The book opens with the fall of Atlanta, and ends with Sherman's army marching triumphantly through the streets of Washington in the Grand Review. In between, Burke deals with the battles of Averasboro and Bentonville, as well as various skirmishes and demonstrations, but this is not a campaign book, full of detailed military maneuvers. My copy doesn't have a single map other than the one on the inside cover of the book. Instead, this book concentrates on the march itself, using hundreds of eyewitness accounts, both of civilians, and soldiers of both sides, to bring to life this incredible and terrible event.<br />Though Mr. Davis is a Southerner, his account is largely a fair one. Sherman is neither presented as a devil or a hero, and a fair attempt was made to give an account that balanced the outrage of the Southerners with the reasons that Sherman believed his march to be necessary. Davis covers everything of significance, including the reactions of the politicians and generals to Sherman's bold maneuver, his capture of three Confederate State Capitols, and his burning of one of them. The greatest part of the book, however, is the story of the people who experienced the destruction, as well as those who brought it to them with the hope of ending the ongoing devastation of the war once and for all. This is a fascinating, well-researched and well-written account of Sherman's march through the South, and if there is any better, I don't know of it.<br /><br />Theo Logosation of the war once and for all. This is a fascinating, well-researched and well-written account of Sherman's march through the South, and if there is any better, I don't know of it.    Theo Logos	2004-10-28
US	47624974	RG19XAEAL6NFU	0756766559	777937386	Lincoln and His Generals	Books	5	21	22	N	N	The Definitive work on Lincoln as Commander In Chief	In Lincoln and His Generals, T. Harry Williams concentrated on telling the story of Lincoln as commander in chief during America's greatest and most devastating war. In the preface he states his goals clearly; \\"my theme is Lincoln as a director of war and his place in the high command and his influence in developing a modern command system for his nation.\\" Williams expertly develops this theme throughout this fascinating book. Though many may disagree with some of his conclusions about how effective Lincoln was in this role, few, after reading this book, would dispute the fact that it is a well written and reasoned account of the topic, and that it is an important contribution both to Civil War and Lincoln studies.<br />William's views Lincoln as a genius - a man, who came into office with no military knowledge, yet had the flexibility of mind to adapt and learn from his mistakes to guide his country to victory through its greatest wartime crisis. He states that, \\"Lincoln, by the power of his mind, became a fine strategist...a better natural strategist than were most of the trained soldiers.\\" He claims that Lincoln grasped the war's big picture from the very beginning, and even claims that Grant's final end-game strategy from 1864 on was fundamentally Lincoln's plan, though the details and execution were Grant's. I believe that he overreaches with some of these claims, yet he still makes a great case for Lincoln's genius, and his role as the indispensable man behind Union victory.<br />Williams also writes of the generals who were Lincoln's tools for winning the war. McClellan and Grant get the most ink, the former because, despite his great talent, he was ultimately a failure and Lincoln's greatest disappointment and the latter because, in William's estimation, he was the greatest general on either side of the war. Of Lincoln's other generals, Williams writes more about the ineffective, incompetent ones such as Fremont and Banks than he does of effective and even great generals like Sherman and Thomas. He explains in his preface that the reason for this is that the incompetent generals were headaches to Lincoln, forcing him to have intimate command relationships with them, while he had to interfere very little with the moves of the effective Sherman and Thomas.<br />Whether or not you agree with all or even any of the author's conclusions, he has written what still stands as the definitive work on this topic - the launching point for discussion and debate on Lincoln's role as commander in chief. Not only that, he has done it in fine style, creating a clear, interesting, and well-written book that stands as a masterpiece in its field. I give it my highest recommendation.<br /><br />Theo Logosnerals like Sherman and Thomas. He explains in his preface that the reason for this is that the incompetent generals were headaches to Lincoln, forcing him to have intimate command relationships with them, while he had to interfere very little with the moves of the effective Sherman and Thomas.  Whether or not you agree with all or even any of the author's conclusions, he has written what still stands as the definitive work on this topic - the launching point for discussion and debate on Lincoln's role as commander in chief. Not only that, he has done it in fine style, creating a clear, interesting, and well-written book that stands as a masterpiece in its field. I give it my highest recommendation.    Theo Logos	2004-10-27
US	47624974	R31PNF6O6NOXR4	1929766009	303754455	Casey at the Bat: A Ballad of the Republic Sung in the Year 1888 (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Delightful Book for Baseball Fans of All Ages	If you love and appreciate baseball not only as a sport, but also as poetry in motion and a metaphor for the American experience, then this is a book that you simply must have. Formatted as clippings from an old-time newspaper contained within a scrapbook with other mementos, it never once steps out of character - front and back dust-cover blurbs, thanks and acknowledgements, editor's notes, dedication, all the way down to publisher's information, ISBN and Library of Congress data all maintain this charming illusion. A tremendous amount of thought and care have gone into creating this book, making it an heirloom quality treasure. Christopher Bing spent time researching the photo archives of the Baseball Hall of Fame, the Sports Museum of New England, as well as various individuals' collections of memorabilia to put together this beautiful and creative volume.<br />The text is the simple, classic baseball poem penned by Ernest Lawrence Thayer. Each page, however, is rich with detail. The pictures depict a game played in the late nineteenth century, and are painstakingly accurate in period detail, and rendered as engraved newspaper pictures of the period. These pictures are then overlaid with other mementos such as old-time cigarette baseball cards, stereoscopic photos, and clippings from The National Sports Reporter & Gazette, all of which are creatively apropos to the page on which they appear. When the crowd in the poem calls to \\"kill the umpire!\\" a clipping from an old catalogue advertising rifled barrel revolvers appears. When they concede that they would bet \\"even money\\" on the game if only Casey could come to bat, coinage and paper currency of the time period overlay the picture.<br />Through the clippings from The National Sports Reporter & Gazette, Bing includes valuable tidbits of baseball history and period trivia. We learn that the overhand pitch was once not allowed, and many opposed its introduction, believing that it would unbalance the game in favor of pitching. One clipping shows that blacks were originally able to play professional baseball until frozen out by unofficial agreements of owners and managers, including Hall of Famer Cap Anson. We even discover the meaning behind the derisive terms \\"lulu\\" and \\"cake\\" as used in the poem.<br />Though younger children may enjoy having it read to them and looking at the pictures, this book is most effective with those who can read and appreciate all of the many added charms that it contains. It is a book that can be enjoy at eight, and appreciated even more at eighty. There may be no joy in Mudville, but I'll wager that any baseball fan that receives this book will have more than enough of the stuff to go around.<br /><br />Theo Logosg. One clipping shows that blacks were originally able to play professional baseball until frozen out by unofficial agreements of owners and managers, including Hall of Famer Cap Anson. We even discover the meaning behind the derisive terms \\"lulu\\" and \\"cake\\" as used in the poem.   Though younger children may enjoy having it read to them and looking at the pictures, this book is most effective with those who can read and appreciate all of the many added charms that it contains. It is a book that can be enjoy at eight, and appreciated even more at eighty. There may be no joy in Mudville, but I'll wager that any baseball fan that receives this book will have more than enough of the stuff to go around.    Theo Logos	2004-10-26
US	47624974	R2RF5U6NC1DPIP	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Funny, Fresh, & Irreverent	The Colour of Magic is not your standard fantasy fare. True, it contains many of the elements that one expects to see in a run-of-the-mill fantasy novel - wizards, muscle-bound heroes, dragons, trolls, etc., but there is a not so subtle difference. First of all, this is a funny, funny book - intentionally, not accidentally so. Secondly, all the tired old elements from pulp fantasy that you find here are being used as a send-up, both of those fantasy cliches, and of the lives that we, the readers, live.<br />The book's protagonist, Rincewind, is a pathetically failed wizard, who knows but one spell, and that one he cannot use, for it may destroy the world. He manages to survive, barely, in the dive taverns of the great city of Ankh-Morpork on his desperately clever street smarts, and a penchant for languages. Against his better judgement, Rincewind hires himself out as a guide to a hopelessly nave tourist, Twoflower. Soon, Rincewind, Twoflower, and Twoflower's fierce, animated, magical luggage are swept from one incredibly dangerous adventure to another, from the fiery destruction of Ankh-Morpork, through near annihilation in the temple of an unspeakable Abomination, a deadly power struggle in a kingdom of magical dragon-riders, to being nearly swept right over and off the rim of the world. Along the way, Pratchett manages to lampoon Fritz Leiber, H.P. Lovecraft, Robert Howard, and other fantasy standards, even including a throwaway Star Trek joke.<br />The Colour of Magic is the first of Pratchett's Discworld novels, a long series of books set in an impossibly clever and humorous alternative world. It is fantasy at its freshest and most irreverent. Mr. Pratchett should have to include warning labels on his books that they may become addictive, for it may be nearly impossible to read just one.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-10-22
US	47624974	R2O0VDB2VSMMBH	031215593X	922886977	Mountains Touched with Fire: Chattanooga Besieged, 1863	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Accessible and Engaging Book on a Crucial Campaign	The siege and battle of Chattanooga presents a complex and difficult challenge to a writer. The action was spread out over more than a two-month period. It included the critical but inactive month long siege, when the Army of the Cumberland was besieged and nearly starved out of Chattanooga by Bragg's Confederates. Then followed a month of various actions, large and small, from the October 28 Brown's Ferry action that opened the cracker line, to Cleburne's rear guard fight to defend the fleeing Confederate army on November 27. This was all further complicated by both the politics that was altering the Union command, and the vicious political infighting among Bragg's high command that played a huge role in the eventual outcome of the campaign. Wiley Sword has done a masterful job of tackling the daunting task of weaving a clear, informative, and exciting tapestry from all of these various threads.<br />Sword begins with the bloody battle of Chickamauga. By devoting the first three chapters to this devastating defeat of the Union Army of the Cumberland that set up the conditions for the siege at Chattanooga, Sword wisely avoids opening his book with the long inaction of the siege. By necessity, a large section is devoted to the siege, and even Sword's fine writing sometimes fails to enliven this dull but crucial build up to the final crisis. He then expertly makes sense of the various and confusing military actions that started in late October, and did not end until the desperate rear guard action of the Confederates in flight on November 27. His account of Thomas' \\"demonstration\\" which turned into a full scale assault up Missionary Ridge and turned the tide of the battle is the most stirring of any that I have ever read of this amazing event.<br />Sword vividly paints Chattanooga as the most devilishly unpredictable of campaigns. Men with impressive reputations such as General Sherman and Confederate General Longstreet met with only failure and embarrassment here. The best plans of the Union's hero, General Grant, utterly failed, while actions planned only as diverting demonstrations turned into major victories at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge. The action which against all odds swept the Confederates from their nearly impregnable position atop Missionary Ridge was based on a spur of the moment, ill-considered mistake made by Grant, and succeeded at least in part because it should never have been attempted. Sword shows a campaign won not by the generals, but by the vagaries of chance and the mettle of the men in the ranks.<br />Mountain Touched with Fire is not the last word on Chattanooga. There may be other works that go into greater detail, and it certainly could have had more maps. However, it is the most accessible, the most engaging book on the subject, and the best place to begin to understand this complicated and crucial campaign.<br /><br />Theo Logoslans of the Union's hero, General Grant, utterly failed, while actions planned only as diverting demonstrations turned into major victories at Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge. The action which against all odds swept the Confederates from their nearly impregnable position atop Missionary Ridge was based on a spur of the moment, ill-considered mistake made by Grant, and succeeded at least in part because it should never have been attempted. Sword shows a campaign won not by the generals, but by the vagaries of chance and the mettle of the men in the ranks.  Mountain Touched with Fire is not the last word on Chattanooga. There may be other works that go into greater detail, and it certainly could have had more maps. However, it is the most accessible, the most engaging book on the subject, and the best place to begin to understand this complicated and crucial campaign.    Theo Logos	2004-10-14
US	47624974	R3SQR63EK7IP0Q	0312265077	244454532	The Black Flower: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Powerful tale of a terrible battle, despite its flaws	The desperate and ill-advised battle of Franklin was among the greatest and most terrible infantry charges in the Civil War, comparable to, if not greater than the much more famous Picket's Charge at Gettysburg. Unlike the charge of Gettysburg fame, the Confederates penetrated the Union line at several places, and engaged in fierce hand to hand combat that raged until after dark, when they were finally repulsed. The Black Flower tells the story of a few people who were caught up in this nearly unmatched catastrophe of war, and for the most part, tells it powerfully.<br />This is a novel that starts out powerfully, hits snags and looses its way a bit in the middle, and manages to get back on track for a fairly strong finish. It works best when dealing directly with the emotions and tangled thoughts of the young men about to charge into hell, across two miles of open field into an entrenched enemy, and when painting the nightmare of the battle's aftermath. It flounders somewhat when it delves into a male/female relationship that manages to be clich&eacute; despite its nightmare setting. To its credit, it avoids an unforgivable romantic ending that would have cheapened and ruined a powerful story.<br />Bahr wisely avoids using much description of the battle itself. The first third of the book introduces us to the protagonist, Private Bushrod Carter, and his friends as they are preparing to go into battle. Through their eyes, the author shows us how it must have been to be staring out across those two empty miles at the enemy's strongly entrench position, knowing from hard-earned experience just what such a charges as they were about to make would mean. In short, effective strokes, he fleshes out these soldiers so that the reader is drawn into caring about their fate. He then breaks off and leaves them as they begin their charge across the field, about to engage the enemy. The story then jumps to the night after the battle, and the shattered, nightmare carnage that was left in its wake. The rest of the book describes that night and the morning after. Bahr thus uses the most effective tool of any teller of tales of horror - he shows us the \\"monster\\" itself only in sideways glimpses, and leaves the rest to our imagination.<br />Bahr has done a masterful job of capturing the spirit and feel of an earlier era, how they spoke, and how they thought, without sacrificing readability. He paints powerful word portraits, such as this one: \\"Well, Bushrod thought, the dead were dead. They were gone, and took with them their faces and voices and whether they drank coffee or not and whether they believed in infant baptism or not and who they liked and who they didn't - gone with all their years and all the baggage they carried...all flown up like blackbirds into that undiscovered country from whose bourn they would not return, not today nor tomorrow, nor the next day, forever and ever, amen -.\\" Also, he makes fine use of symbolism that is all the more powerful because he leaves it ambiguous.<br />The books greatest failing is in the sub-plot that revolves around Simon Rope, an evil Confederate conscript. The author tried to use this as a devise to show another aspect of the horrors of war, but he misses the mark. He fails to make the character believable, and telegraphs the climax of this sub-plot far in advance for anyone who has read enough to be familiar with how cliches play out.<br />Despite its flaws, this is a powerful book, and deserves a place among other great novels of the Civil War that address war as it is rather than war as romance.<br /><br />Theo Logose. The rest of the book describes that night and the morning after. Bahr thus uses the most effective tool of any teller of tales of horror - he shows us the \\"monster\\" itself only in sideways glimpses, and leaves the rest to our imagination.  Bahr has done a masterful job of capturing the spirit and feel of an earlier era, how they spoke, and how they thought, without sacrificing readability. He paints powerful word portraits, such as this one: \\"Well, Bushrod thought, the dead were dead. They were gone, and took with them their faces and voices and whether they drank coffee or not and whether they believed in infant baptism or not and who they liked and who they didn't - gone with all their years and all the baggage they carried...all flown up like blackbirds into that undiscovered country from whose bourn they would not return, not today nor tomorrow, nor the next day, forever and ever, amen -.\\" Also, he makes fine use of symbolism that is all the more powerful because he leaves it ambiguous.   The books greatest failing is in the sub-plot that revolves around Simon Rope, an evil Confederate conscript. The author tried to use this as a devise to show another aspect of the horrors of war, but he misses the mark. He fails to make the character believable, and telegraphs the climax of this sub-plot far in advance for anyone who has read enough to be familiar with how cliches play out.  Despite its flaws, this is a powerful book, and deserves a place among other great novels of the Civil War that address war as it is rather than war as romance.     Theo Logos	2004-10-08
US	47624974	R14H4X20QAAW7X	1841582905	277645456	Macpherson's Rant and Other Tales of the Scottish Fiddle	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Fiddlin' Around	`MacPherson's Rant and other tales of the Scottish Fiddle' is a fun collection of folklore and oral history of Scottish fiddlers, fiddle tunes, and fiddle lore. A longish introduction outlines the development of the fiddle and fiddling in Scotland and the Shetland Isles, the role of storytelling and the oral tradition, and some brief notes on languages. From there, the book launches into a collection of many brief tales of various famous Scots fiddle tunes, notable fiddlers, and a wide collection of fiddle related folklore.<br />The first chapter deals with legendary fiddlers made famous by song, the most notable of which is James MacPherson, of the titles' MacPherson's Rant. Here you find the back-story legends of this song, as well as other famous fiddler songs. Also related here are the stories of Rattlin Willie, nearly as famous as MacPherson, and Johnny Faa, whose story inspired several songs, including The Raggle-Taggle Gypsies and Gypsy Davy. The next chapter moves on to tell the tales of many famous Scottish fiddlers from the 17th through the 19th centuries. There is a chapter on Otherworld tales, where fiddlers interact with the fairies or even the devil, Auld Nick himself. Following chapters relate fiddle lore in all aspects of Scottish life, from fiddling and the Kirk (church), the fiddle and jail, fiddling and the military, as well as many more.<br />The writing style here is adequate, though seldom overly captivating. Each chapter is split into several tales, and the book is best read a story or two at a time. Trying to read it straight through becomes rather monotonous, and all the different fiddler's names and exploits began to run into each other in one indistinguishable mass. It is the information presented here, rather than the beauty of the prose, which makes the book worthwhile.<br />This book will have a limited appeal. But if you are interested in the fiddle, Scotland, or folklore, this could be a fun and useful book to add to your library.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-09-23
US	47624974	ROCAB1WRQOTIN	0345419707	248059624	The Magic Labyrinth (Riverworld Saga, Book 4)	Books	3	25	25	N	N	Uneven - with Great Potential Left Unfulfilled	The Magic Labyrinth is the fourth of Farmer's five volume Riverworld series, and was originally the final book in the series. Here all the various quests of those travelling to the headwaters of the river end for better or worse. Here to, the mysteries of the Riverworld planet and how and why all humanity was resurrected there are revealed.<br />This is a most uneven book. There are episodes of thrilling action and adventure, and long sections of mind-numbing boredom. There are characters who have been well developed throughout the books, and others that are barely sketched out, but still are central to the action. The writing is often barely competent, yet many of the ideas presented are still fascinating.<br />The strongest part of the book is its middle, which recounts the final drama of a forty-year, up river chase of two rival riverboats. The first boat, The Rex, captained by King John Lackland, who stole it from Sam Clemens, is pursued by The Not For Hire, the boat Clemens built to chase down his hated enemy. Clemens' quest for the headwaters of the river, to storm the mysterious tower there that may contain the answers to this world's riddles, has been subsumed by his thirst for revenge against King John. Most of the action of the book takes place when these two mighty boats, both heavily armed and manned by crews of Earth's famous and near famous, have their final clash. Two great set pieces have French ace George Guynemer, and German ace Werner Voss fighting a last fantastic dogfight over the river, and an awe-inspiring fencing duel to end all duels between Cyrano de Bergerac and Sir Richard Francis Burton. It is here that Farmer works his grand concept for all that it is worth, and shines.<br />The quality of the book drops sharply after the resolution of this battle. A handful of survivors continue on to complete the quest to the great tower at the end of the river. Several in this final group are not characters who were previously fleshed out, but new characters who have hardly been lined at all by the author, and with whom the reader feels little connection. Almost the whole last fourth of the book is composed of chapter after chapter of explanations of the how, why and who of the creation of Riverworld and the resurrection of 36 billion humans there. These explanatory chapters are stilted, as the information is delivered like a lecture from a perfectly dull professor. After reading through four books to get to the big revelations, this lame technique is a real let down.<br />This book and series suffer from great potential, unfulfilled. The concept on which Riverworld is based had promise as a grand epic masterpiece of sci-fi. It began well, but faltered and fell with books three and four. Though I contemplated giving this book only two stars, for its occasional flashes of brilliance I will give it three.<br /><br />Theo Logoso have hardly been lined at all by the author, and with whom the reader feels little connection. Almost the whole last fourth of the book is composed of chapter after chapter of explanations of the how, why and who of the creation of Riverworld and the resurrection of 36 billion humans there. These explanatory chapters are stilted, as the information is delivered like a lecture from a perfectly dull professor. After reading through four books to get to the big revelations, this lame technique is a real let down.  This book and series suffer from great potential, unfulfilled. The concept on which Riverworld is based had promise as a grand epic masterpiece of sci-fi. It began well, but faltered and fell with books three and four. Though I contemplated giving this book only two stars, for its occasional flashes of brilliance I will give it three.     Theo Logos	2004-09-20
US	47624974	R39OV8X0H37UU8	0345419693	686322549	The Dark Design (Riverworld Saga, Book 3)	Books	3	17	20	N	N	Good Series Hits a Low Point	This is the middle volume of Farmer's ambitious five-book saga of Riverworld, a fantastic planet reworked by a mysterious super race to be one long river valley along a ten million-mile long river, which snakes around the planet. Into this artificially formed world, all humanity who ever lived is resurrected, given perpetual youth, and provided with all their needs through a mind boggling technology. What they are not given is a clue as to who did this, how, or most importantly, why. This book is the weakest of the series so far.<br />The action of the story follows several groups who are now racing toward the headwaters of the river hoping to discover the mysteries of their after-life and strange, new world, which are rumored to be found there. In addition to Sir Richard Burton and Sam Clemens, who we have met in previous books, we are introduced to Akhenaten, heretic pharaoh of Egypt, who hopes to discover his one true Sun god at river's end, and writer Jack London traveling together with film cowboy Tom Mix, all headed toward the same shadowy goal. The bulk of the book, however, focuses on the building of a huge dirigible that can gain in a few days of flight what would take many years of travel on the river. An exciting account of this airship's mission to river's end provides the cliff hanging ending of this volume.<br />Part of the charm of the first two books was their protagonists; Sir Richard Burton in the first, Sam Clemens in the second. In 'The Dark Design', the majority of the action is viewed through characters of the author's creation rather than through historical protagonists, and this does not come off as well. Both Burton and Clemens make brief appearances here, but we don't see either of them enough.<br />The book suffers from two other major flaws. First, it is overlong - nearly as long as the first two books put together. Farmer's writing style is at best competent, and begins to become taxing after 200 pages or so. There are whole chapters here that have no real relationship to the plot and are little more than the author indulging himself. Secondly, there are major plot and character shifts away from what was established in the first two books. These shifts and reversals are awkward, and don't seem to have been thought out well. At times, the author's sloppiness makes it hard to suspend disbelief.<br />The power of the story, and the possibilities of the concept should keep you reading through this poorly edited mess of a book, but if the first two volumes have not thoroughly captured you, you may bog down and never reach river's end.<br /><br />Theo Logosve no real relationship to the plot and are little more than the author indulging himself. Secondly, there are major plot and character shifts away from what was established in the first two books. These shifts and reversals are awkward, and don't seem to have been thought out well. At times, the author's sloppiness makes it hard to suspend disbelief.   The power of the story, and the possibilities of the concept should keep you reading through this poorly edited mess of a book, but if the first two volumes have not thoroughly captured you, you may bog down and never reach river's end.     Theo Logos	2004-09-14
US	47624974	R3FJCZB1W49MUX	0345419685	94757564	The Fabulous Riverboat (Riverworld Saga, Book 2)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Series gaining strength as it continues	This is Farmer's second offering in his outstanding Riverworld series, five books that must be read together in sequence for the whole story. He continues to develop this fabulous world of a millions mile long river, snaking around and around a planet, hemmed in on each side by unscaleable mountains which force all to live in the river valley. Into this artificially formed world, all humanity who ever lived and died has been resurrected, with no clue as to the how or why, or by whom. The books in the series tell the stories of those who are driven to find answers to those mysteries.<br />In 'The Fabulous Riverboat', Farmer leaves for a while the quest of his protagonist from the first book, Sir Richard Burton, and focuses on another fascinating 19th century personality - Samuel Clemens, AKA Mark Twain. Clemens is driven by a dream of finding iron on this mineral-poor planet from which he can build a riverboat such as he piloted on Earth, to take him to the headwaters of the river where emerging clues seem to indicate answers can be found to this confounding after-life. The Clemens we meet here is bitter, angry, and filled with guilt, and his ultimate motivation is to find those responsible for the mass resurrection of humanity, and to strike whatever blow he can against them in retaliation for bringing him back from the peace of the grave. With the help of a powerful \\"Mysterious Stranger\\", who may be a renegade member of the race responsible for this resurrection and Riverworld, Clemens is able to find the minerals he needs, and to form a colony dedicated to the project of building his fabulous riverboat.<br />Complications abound, however. The first and greatest is a partnership of necessity that Clemens must form with the deceitful and despicable King John Lackland, the most notorious of all the old kings of England. Then there is the need to concentrate on developing the military might to hold and defend this unique area of the river that contains the minerals necessary to fulfilling his dream. And finally, there is Sam's personal, guilt-ridden agony over making the hard, amoral choices that have to be made if he is going to succeed in his quest.<br />The strength of these books lie in the opportunities that the premise provides for having historical persons from widely different periods interact with each other. In 'The Fabulous Riverboat', we meet Lothar von Richthofen, brother and flying comrade of the Red Baron, Erik Bloodaxe, 10th century Viking leader, Odysseus, Cyrano de Bergerac, Hitler's toady Herman Goring, mountain man \\"Liver Eating\\" Johnson and more. Together with some well-drawn original characters, these make for a fascinating story.<br />This book does not suffer as much from stilted writing as did the first book of the series, but I still would describe the writing style as merely competent. The characters and story are the strength of the book, and more than sufficient to provide both the thrills and intellectual stimulation to make reading it worthwhile.<br />After taking you on a thrill-ride of battles, assassinations, double crosses, and assorted intrigue, 'The Fabulous Riverboat' will leave you with a cliff-hanging ending that should send you scrambling to read the next book in the series (The Dark Design).y to fulfilling his dream. And finally, there is Sam's personal, guilt-ridden agony over making the hard, amoral choices that have to be made if he is going to succeed in his quest.   The strength of these books lie in the opportunities that the premise provides for having historical persons from widely different periods interact with each other. In 'The Fabulous Riverboat', we meet Lothar von Richthofen, brother and flying comrade of the Red Baron, Erik Bloodaxe, 10th century Viking leader, Odysseus, Cyrano de Bergerac, Hitler's toady Herman Goring, mountain man \\"Liver Eating\\" Johnson and more. Together with some well-drawn original characters, these make for a fascinating story.   This book does not suffer as much from stilted writing as did the first book of the series, but I still would describe the writing style as merely competent. The characters and story are the strength of the book, and more than sufficient to provide both the thrills and intellectual stimulation to make reading it worthwhile.   After taking you on a thrill-ride of battles, assassinations, double crosses, and assorted intrigue, 'The Fabulous Riverboat' will leave you with a cliff-hanging ending that should send you scrambling to read the next book in the series (The Dark Design).	2004-09-08
US	47624974	RLBD4R9CO5RUA	0345419677	930407126	To Your Scattered Bodies Go (Riverworld Saga, Book 1)	Books	4	50	53	N	N	Five Stars for Concept, Three for Execution	This is the introductory book of Philip Jose Farmer's five volume Riverworld series, books that do not stand alone, and must be read in sequence from beginning to end for the whole story. As an introduction to an outstanding series, 'To Your Scattered Bodies Go' works well, and makes a good beginning.<br />The premise of the Riverworld books is unique, fantastic, and the hook that will draw you in and hold you. All of humankind, everyone who ever lived, is simultaneously resurrected on an artificially formed world along the banks of a millions mile long river that snakes around and around the planet. Everyone is mid-twenties, ageless, and their needs are supplied by a fantastic technology none of them understand. And everyone is equally ignorant of the who, how, and why of their miraculous resurrection.<br />Not everyone is equally willing to remain ignorant however. Sir Richard Francis Burton, explorer, adventurer, spy, writer, linguist, swordsman, and self-style rake of the 19th century Victorian British Empire, one of the most restless and adventuring men ever to live, was resurrected naked, along with the rest of humanity. In no time at all, he is off with a group of companions, sailing up river to search for it's source (as he searched for the source of the Nile on Earth) and for the answers to the mystery of their existence in this strange after-life. Slowly, he begins to put together clues that he hopes will lead him to the hidden gnosis of his strange new world.<br />I would give this book five stars for its concept, but only three for its execution. The scope of the concept is huge, leaving fascinating possibilities to explore throughout the series. (This Farmer exploits well.) The choice of Burton as protagonist was inspired, as the historical Burton was well suited to the task his literary counterpart undertakes here, and he is a most amazing character. The author has studied Burton's life, and provides much biographical material on him throughout the book. (This book was my introduction to Burton when I first read it twenty years ago, and I have since found what a compelling job of capturing him Farmer did.) These are the book's strengths.<br />The weakness of 'To Your Scattered Bodies Go' is in the writing. Farmer will often break away from the story to give histories on characters (usually actual historic persons of note) or to make philosophical speeches. Though the words are from the character's mouths, and though the information is interesting, the style when he tries this is nearly always stilted. The writing throughout the rest of the book is competent at best. It is only this less than stellar writing which holds this series back from being considered a masterpiece, however, as the concept and characters should rivet your interest throughout the entire series despite any drawbacks the writing style may have.<br />This is the beginning of as fascinating and unique of a sci-fi series that you will ever run across, and I recommend it despite its flaws.<br /><br />Theo Logosbook was my introduction to Burton when I first read it twenty years ago, and I have since found what a compelling job of capturing him Farmer did.) These are the book's strengths.   The weakness of 'To Your Scattered Bodies Go' is in the writing. Farmer will often break away from the story to give histories on characters (usually actual historic persons of note) or to make philosophical speeches. Though the words are from the character's mouths, and though the information is interesting, the style when he tries this is nearly always stilted. The writing throughout the rest of the book is competent at best. It is only this less than stellar writing which holds this series back from being considered a masterpiece, however, as the concept and characters should rivet your interest throughout the entire series despite any drawbacks the writing style may have.   This is the beginning of as fascinating and unique of a sci-fi series that you will ever run across, and I recommend it despite its flaws.     Theo Logos	2004-09-05
US	47624974	R2RZQM81PT345V	030681028X	795489382	Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton: A Biography	Books	4	51	52	N	N	A  Great Life in the Great Game	Soldier, spy, swordsman, linguist, proto-anthropologist, adventurer, explorer, eroticist, prolific writer and poet, and seeker after hidden gnosis - Richard Francis Burton was all of this and more. While no single biography can capture the entirety of this amazing life, Edward Rice's book is an insightful, fascinating treatment of this larger than life man, and deserves to be read by all who wish to know Burton.<br />While Rice's book covers the whole of Burton's life and career, its concentration and strengths are on his period of greatest adventuring and exploring, from his introduction to India and the East as a soldier and spy for the East India Company, through his exploits in Arabia, and his explorations in Africa. Rice lingers long over Burton's wanderings in India, exploring in depth how Burton immersed himself in Eastern languages, customs, religions, and thought until he could easily pass himself off as a native. Burton's most famous exploits - the pilgrimage to Mecca disguised as an Arab, penetrating the sacred and forbidden city of Harar in East Africa (the first European to do so), and his explorations of Central Africa, searching for the source of the Nile, are all covered in depth, with great detail.<br />Rice takes the time to concentrate on two of the more shadowy aspects of Burton's life - his participation in the \\"Great Game\\"; spying for the British Empire, and his personal search after gnosis, the hidden wisdom of life. Often these pursuits were intertwined, as when his initiations into secret Hindu and Sufi sects served both to further his personal quest for gnosis, and to give him cover and openings for his espionage activities.<br />Also well covered are Burton's greatest literary achievements His superb annotated translation of the Arabian Nights (for which he was knighted), his translation of The Perfumed Garden, and his original Sufi poem, The Kasidah, are given particular attention, but much of his prolific literary production is also noted.<br />This book has its weaknesses, but they are slight. It starts out rather slowly, as Rice give outstanding background information on the British Empire in India, which while valuable, momentarily distracts the story away from Burton's amazing life. Also, it seems that Rice so admired his subject that he could not bear to show him in any but the best light. In every major controversy of Burton's career, Rice always favors Burton's side, almost to the point of occasionally glossing over some of Burton's very real flaws.<br />This book is a valuable addition to the Burton literature, and should be required reading for any Burton enthusiasts, or anyone who is a fan of remarkable lives of adventure.<br /><br />Theo Logosbook has its weaknesses, but they are slight. It starts out rather slowly, as Rice give outstanding background information on the British Empire in India, which while valuable, momentarily distracts the story away from Burton's amazing life. Also, it seems that Rice so admired his subject that he could not bear to show him in any but the best light. In every major controversy of Burton's career, Rice always favors Burton's side, almost to the point of occasionally glossing over some of Burton's very real flaws.   This book is a valuable addition to the Burton literature, and should be required reading for any Burton enthusiasts, or anyone who is a fan of remarkable lives of adventure.     Theo Logos	2004-09-03
US	47624974	R3S43JIZRN5LUQ	0140120688	642828083	Burton: A Biography of Sir Richard Francis Burton	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Portrait of a Giant, warts and all	Richard Francis Burton lived a fantastic life packed full of enough exploits, adventures, and accomplishments to make any ten men famous. As such, no single biography is sufficient to capture the whole man, and anyone truly interested in exploring his amazing life will do well to read several treatments of it. That said, Byron Farwell's excellent biography of Burton is an outstanding place to begin.<br />Farwell captures Burton's driven, restless spirit, from his wild youth wandering nomadically about Europe with his family, to his old age, when gout and heart disease finally put an end to his adventuring, leaving him to his literary explorations which continued to the day before his death. His years in the Sind soldiering for the East India Company, his mastery of twenty-nine languages, immersion into Eastern ways and culture, adventures and explorations in Arabia and Africa are all thoroughly covered without bogging down into unnecessary detail. Likewise covered are the frustrating years of unofficial exile by his government to forsaken consulate posts on the West African coast and in Brazil, years of brooding, bitterness, and dark depression. And finally, the long twilight of his life as the consulate at Trieste is explored, where failing health slowed his restless travels, but allowed him the time to complete literary treasures, such as his unmatched annotated translation of The Arabian Nights, or his original Sufi poem The Kasidah.<br />Farwell paints Burton's life on a grand scale - capturing not only his outstanding adventures, explorations, and impressive anthropological and literary accomplishments, but his prejudices, his drinking problems and dark moods, his often difficult personality, and other flaws that were writ just as large as his positive accomplishments. Farwell's frank and honest appraisal of Burton, warts and all, go a long way toward explaining why this giant among men was continually slighted by the Government he served, and never recognize or rewarded in proportion to his outstanding service.<br />No biography of Burton can ignore his odd marriage to Isabelle Arundell. Isabelle has often been demonize, her influence on Burton question, and her burning of his papers after his death condemned as foulest crime. Farwell, however, shows great sympathy to Isabelle. She emerges as odd, romantic, devout, and utterly devoted to a husband who was also her hero. Farwell makes it clear that she was a good match for Burton, and powerful force behind the scenes in his career.<br />This is a first rate biography of a unique and amazing life. I recommend it highly.<br /><br />Theo Logosrded in proportion to his outstanding service.   No biography of Burton can ignore his odd marriage to Isabelle Arundell. Isabelle has often been demonize, her influence on Burton question, and her burning of his papers after his death condemned as foulest crime. Farwell, however, shows great sympathy to Isabelle. She emerges as odd, romantic, devout, and utterly devoted to a husband who was also her hero. Farwell makes it clear that she was a good match for Burton, and powerful force behind the scenes in his career.   This is a first rate biography of a unique and amazing life. I recommend it highly.    Theo Logos	2004-09-02
US	47624974	R1HKUVCKJMSZAK	0316392154	798455109	This Land Is Your Land	Books	5	18	18	N	N	This book is made for you and me	What a wonderful book! Woody Guthrie's simple but evocative lyrics (with all of the original verses restored) are brilliantly set off by the marvelous folk art oil paintings of Kathy Jakobsen.<br />Jakoben's artwork is what will draw you into the book. Double page landscapes depict the plains, the desert, and the dust blown wheat fields of Oklahoma. All four seasons are beautifully rendered as well. There are cityscapes (including a striking New York City with the Twin Towers still standing) and idyllic country landscapes. The Golden Gate Bridge, the Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls, Brooklyn Bridge, St. Louis Gateway Arch, Old Faithful, Seattle Space Needle, and Coney Island, among others, are American landmarks that pepper the pages of the book.<br />And the figure of Woody with his guitar wanders through all of them as our great American troubadour. (My kids play a game of lets find Woody on every page.)<br />The layout of the book keeps it endlessly interesting for both children and adults. Most of the verses are depicted with a double page painting, while the repeating chorus takes two pages that split into multiple scenes of Americana. In the Four Corners of these pages are small quotes from Guthrie's other song lyrics and writings. Children are captured by the bright and simple artwork, while adults can become lost within the multiple possibilities that are offered on every page.<br />This great American anthem of the common man and his love of the land, \\"made for you and me\\", receives a truly worthy treatment in this book. It is both a favorite of my pre-school children, and one of my most cherished books. Even if you don't have kids, it would make a fine book to put out on your coffee table to delight your guests with its many charms.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-08-13
US	47624974	R2L9I1AFNM0VA4	1414281927	667230887	The Kasidah of Haji Abdu El-Yezdi	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An Agnostic Gospell	The word Kasidah can be translated Testament, and here it conveys several of the meanings of that word. It is a statement about what the author believes and what he does not, it is concerned with the authority and veracity of scriptures, and it is deeply concerned with the meaning and consequences of death.<br />Burton here melds his broad knowledge of Western philosophy and religion with a deep understanding of Eastern philosophical and metaphysical thought, and he presents it flawlessly in the poetic idiom of the Sufis. This work stands alone, incomparable, for it is truly a unique work of genius. The Way of the Sufi is here presented in Western thought, clothed in poetic Sufi garb.<br />The Kasidah is an Agnostic Gospel. It calls for an abandonment of argument over what can never be known an acceptance that death is a mystery that we cannot penetrate, and a shunning of bribes of heaven or threats of hell. Burton offers instead his code for living the life before us - \\"Do what thy manhood bids thee do/ from none but self expect applause;/ He noblest lives and noblest dies/ who makes and keeps his self-made laws.\\"<br />The Kasidah expresses Burton's life philosophy, stark, with a terrible beauty. It has been called his spiritual autobiography. More than any of his many other works, it reveals the heart and mind of this brilliant and amazing man. That is more than enough reason to read this powerful book.<br />This book should be read by anyone with an interest in Sir Richard Burton, Sufi poetry, the philosophy of applied Agnosticism, or works of unique and powerful vision. It has my highest recommendation<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-08-03
US	47624974	R2B3BIVV3L8VMW	0805065377	92302129	Eight Men Out: The Black Sox and the 1919 World Series	Books	5	53	56	N	N	National Pastime as Greek Tragedy	From the first paragraph to the last sentence of this gripping book, Asinof grabs your interest and doesn't let go. The story he is telling is fascinating - a tale of talented but clueless ballplayers, manipulating gamblers, money-hungry owners, and corrupt politicians, all coming together to create the greatest scandal the world of baseball has known. He tells it with clear, clean prose that keeps the story moving through every detail to its tragic conclusion.<br />The eight disgraced ballplayers who threw the 1919 World Series have been dubbed the Black Sox for posterity, yet with two exceptions, they are the most sympathetic characters in the whole sordid story. Chick Gandil, the tough first baseman who hatched the scheme, and his friend Swede Risberg, nasty tempered shortstop, who needed no prodding to join in, don't come off well. The rest of the crew, however, seem to have joined in a half-hearted, hapless manner. Particularly tragic are Shoeless Joe Jackson, one of baseball's greatest all-time hitters, whose talent was only exceeded by his naivete, and Buck Weaver, the outstanding thirdbaseman whose only real fault was his loyalty to his friends in not reporting the scheme, as he took no part in throwing the games, and accepted no money. These clueless, grossly underpaid ballplayers, most of who profited little or nothing from the fix, were the only ones punished for the scandal that rocked the nation.<br />The tale of the gamblers involved is as fascinating as it is telling. Three distinct levels of gamblers were present in the fix. Sleepy Bill Burns was an ex-ballplayer and small time gambler who did the legwork, consulting with the players. He went bust and was double-crossed by both the gamblers above him and Chick Gandil. Abe Attell and Sport Sullivan were a level up on the gambler's food chain - they had some access to the big time boys, but were not part of that exclusive club. Through constant maneuvering and double-dealing, and calculated risk taking, they were able to walk away from the scheme with a tidy profit. Arnold Rothstein was the big time. His money backed the fix, yet he took almost no personal risk, and emerged completely unscathed from the whole nasty affair while turning a huge profit. Big fish eat little fish, no matter what the ocean.<br />Finally, the least likeable characters of this tragic, real life morality play were Charles Comiskey, owner of the White Sox, and the rest of the baseball owners. For years they had turned a blind eye to the corruption of gambling in the game rather than expose it and risk the popularity of their sport and the profits in their ticket sales. When the fix of the World Series exploded across newspaper headlines, and they could no longer hide their dirty secrets, they used all their wealth and connections, buying off elected officials, and even colluding with the gamblers behind the fix, to protect their reputations and profits. It was their power, their lawyers, their money, that presented eight ballplayers as the scapegoats for national outrage, while willingly sacrificing true justice and exposure of their own hypocrisy. After reading this book, you may be left shaking your head that Charles Comiskey is in the Hall of Fame, and Shoeless Joe Jackson is forever banned from that hallowed hall.<br />Eight Men Out is a story of baseball, crime, and legal maneuvering. It is a window into the workings of power, and a cautionary tale of the corruption of the American dream and the twisting of justice by powerful interest. Most of all, it is an American tragedy of lives and reputations ruined, dreams shattered, and potential unfulfilled, that is as fascinating as it is sad.<br />If you are interested in baseball, American history, or the sociology of American society, you should read this book. You will not be disappointed.<br /><br />Theo Logoswere able to walk away from the scheme with a tidy profit. Arnold Rothstein was the big time. His money backed the fix, yet he took almost no personal risk, and emerged completely unscathed from the whole nasty affair while turning a huge profit. Big fish eat little fish, no matter what the ocean.   Finally, the least likeable characters of this tragic, real life morality play were Charles Comiskey, owner of the White Sox, and the rest of the baseball owners. For years they had turned a blind eye to the corruption of gambling in the game rather than expose it and risk the popularity of their sport and the profits in their ticket sales. When the fix of the World Series exploded across newspaper headlines, and they could no longer hide their dirty secrets, they used all their wealth and connections, buying off elected officials, and even colluding with the gamblers behind the fix, to protect their reputations and profits. It was their power, their lawyers, their money, that presented eight ballplayers as the scapegoats for national outrage, while willingly sacrificing true justice and exposure of their own hypocrisy. After reading this book, you may be left shaking your head that Charles Comiskey is in the Hall of Fame, and Shoeless Joe Jackson is forever banned from that hallowed hall.   Eight Men Out is a story of baseball, crime, and legal maneuvering. It is a window into the workings of power, and a cautionary tale of the corruption of the American dream and the twisting of justice by powerful interest. Most of all, it is an American tragedy of lives and reputations ruined, dreams shattered, and potential unfulfilled, that is as fascinating as it is sad.   If you are interested in baseball, American history, or the sociology of American society, you should read this book. You will not be disappointed.    Theo Logos	2004-07-30
US	47624974	R1UNFB6KVHZAFA	0486297020	314214378	A Short History of the Civil War: Ordeal by Fire	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Deserves a Galaxy of Stars!	What can I say about this book? Well, how about in a lifetime of reading many books on the Civil War, both good and great, this one stands head and shoulders above them all. While more ink than the blood that was spilled has been used by many others to explain this terrible war, Pratt managed to capture the essence of the conflict in a short, brilliant book.<br />Pratt was a military historian of the first rank, but was also known for clever and exciting high fantasy stories. Perhaps it was this versatility that honed his storytelling ability to the sharp edge that we see here. While not missing a single important detail of politics, causes, battles, and personalities, he weaves an engrossing tale from start to finish, and creates a solidly researched history that is also a page-turner. This book is a joy to the student of the Civil War, but also appeals to those with no particular interest in that conflict, solely on the merit of Pratt's tight storytelling.<br />This book was written in 1935, and much new material on the Civil War has surfaced since then. Others, such as Shelby Foote, Bruce Catton and James McPherson have written much longer and more comprehensive works on the war that are excellent in their own right. Yet this little book still shines out as a gem among them. With its solid scholarship, sharp storytelling, and precise choice of details, it is the first rate Cliff Notes to the Civil War.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-07-28
US	47624974	R2MQDCPZ1N3UNK	0802117635	484751983	American Nomads: Travels With Lost Conquistadors, Mountain Men, Cowboys, Indians, Hoboes, Truckers, and Bullriders	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Herodotus On the Road	American Nomads was part of my summer reading list, a little lighter reading than my usual fare I thought. While Grant's book delivered as an enjoyable and swift read that was not too heavy, it also surprised me with its grasp of Western history and valuable insights.<br />Richard Grant is a Brit with an inclination to ramble. He fell in love with the wide-open spaces and endless road of the American West, and began a life of rambling all over the West at will. When he ran out of money, he returned to England and sold articles about his adventures until he raise another stake to come back and repeat the process. This book, his first, is the logical outcome of that process.<br />Grant artfully blends his own adventures on the road with historical examples illustrating the nomadic instinct that the open spaces of the West seem to draw out from those who live there. His chapters on conquistador Cabeza de Vaca, mountain man Joe Walker, and the Comanche tribe are particularly well researched and written. (His writing on the conquistador has inspired me to read Cabeza de Vaca's own Adventures in the Unknown Interior of America.)These subjects are well chosen, both as dynamic interesting stories, and for their instructiveness to Grant's theme.<br />Along side of these historical set-pieces, Grant tells of his own adventures on the road with psychotic hitchhikers, old school hobos, the drunken dregs of the Rainbow family, and methed-out crazy rodeo bull riders, among others. He ponders on how so many of the nomads that he meets in the West tend to be societies walking wounded , and notes the hardships and misunderstandings of being a nomad in a largely sedentary culture. But this is no whining treatise. Grant's joy in and love for a wandering life in the beautiful empty spaces of the West is palpable, and if you feel any inclination in that direction, possibly contagious.<br />If you love road books and well-done history, consider American Nomads a must read.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-07-27
US	47624974	R10XUIDWPTSGQ6	0803282222	466162070	Bravos of the West	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Between History and Legend	Bravos of the West, (originally titled Death of the Bravos) is an informal history of the old West, from 1812 to 1878, largely mined from oral tradition. \\"By and large, what went on in the early days of the American West transpired while historians were looking the other way...\\", writes Myers, and rather than attempting a scholarly treatment of the subject, he has drawn on the oral tradition to create a rollicking tale of the mountain men, scouts, Indians, bandits, filibusters, and shootist who lived and died there during that wide open and wild time.<br />Following a rough chronological order, each chapter sketches the story of one of these Western bravos, some well known characters, others more obscure. A substantial portion of the book is about the various mountain men and the fur trade, covering such legends as Jed Smith, Hugh Glass, Jim Bridger, Old Bill Williams, Joe Meeks, and many others. Sam Houston and the rest of the men who made Texas are covered well, as are those who blazed the Santa Fe Trail, and those who opened up and settled the Oregon Country. There is hardly a significant event or person in the time period that he covers that Myers does not bring to life through his lively prose. Myers skillfully weaves all of these separate stories into a great tapestry of the claiming of the West for the American nation.<br />Myers knows his subject well, as most of his life was devoted to researching and writing about the American West. Yet he is primarily a storyteller, not a dry academic. His writing is playful and idiomatic, and if you let yourself fall under his spell, you may find you are searching out his other books regardless of subject.<br />Bravos of the West falls somewhere between history and legend, and hence must at times be taken with a grain of salt if pure historical accuracy (is there any such beast?) is what you are looking for. But to learn of the many amazing people whose stories combined to win the West and create an American mythology, John Myers Myers' fascinating book is just the thing.<br /><br />Theo Logosyers' fascinating book is just the thing.    Theo Logos	2004-07-15
US	47624974	R1M9VRDE8D1S1O	1585421774	230046970	In Search of Captain Zero: A Surfer's Road Trip Beyond the End of the Road	Books	5	33	36	N	N	More than the sum of its parts	First let me say that I have never surfed, and other than watching Point Break, am ignorant of surfing culture. Likewise, I have never journeyed south of the border, and I certainly never was an international drug smuggler (though I have been known to inhale). That said, Mr. Weisbecker's writing put me right there, and made me feel that I was participating in these adventures. He vividly and viscerally described surfing to the point that I felt the rush, and almost tasted salt water. His recreation of a sense of place when describing Mexico and Central America reminded me of Mark Twain's best travel writing. And his recollections of his outrageous adventures in his youthful bandito smuggling days made me cry from laughing.(Even if these tales are exaggerated, as well they may be, only someone who knows what he is talking about could exaggerate so effectively.)<br />Beyond all the surfing, adventuring on the edge, and bandito hilarity, this book has a strong undercurrent of melancholy, a deep sadness that adds depth and realism to this rollicking adventure. Someone has complained that this book is just about a self-indulgent mid-life crisis. The author himself has admitted as much in his book. Yet the emotions and circumstances that bring a man to what we have chosen to call \\"mid-life crisis\\" are real, and nearly universal. Weibecker's genius is in the brutal honesty in which he communicates his own ambiguous emotional turmoil. Past a certain age, we all must find a way to live with the choices that we have made, and the bridges that we have burned, and that, at its core, is the heart of this book.<br />In Search of Captain Zero is engrossing, invigorating, hilarious, and sad. It is a swift read, and I was sorry when it was over. All in all, it is more than the sum of its parts, and I highly recommend it.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-07-03
US	47624974	R3K8C9OWRZJLEF	0609801732	444850671	The Warrior Generals: Combat Leadership in the Civil War	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Fresh	First, a caveat: If you say, \\"War of Northern Aggression\\", hold dear the Lost Cause, and celebrate Massa Robert Lee's birthday as a high holy day, you should avoid this book altogether rather than read it and go on to write an emotional review raving against it and giving only one star. This book dares depart from the usual hagiographic treatment of Lee, suggesting that some of his actions were less than genius, and that some were brutal mistakes. Trust me, if you consider this sacrilege, please avoid this book.<br />As for everyone else, this is an outstanding book - the freshest take on the Civil War that I have read in years. Buell ignores the received wisdom on such giants as Grant, Lee, Sherman, Hood, and Jackson, and goes back to original sources to reconstruct the actual men behind the legends. His take on these generals is sometimes controversial, usually enlightening, and always interesting.<br />Buell focuses on three pairs of generals - Grant and Lee, Thomas and Hood, and Barlow and Gordon. This devise works well to allow him to examine each major phase of the war in both the eastern and western theaters. By including the lesser known Barlow and Gordon, Buell is also able to contrast the West Point trained professionals to volunteer generals who made up such a large segment of those who served in the Civil War.<br />Grant and Lee, in particular, come in for reassessment in Buell's work, and both suffer somewhat from it. This, however, is not character assassination, but a valid reexamination of undeniably great men, assessing them by their actions rather than the legends that have grown around them. You might not totally agree with all of Buell's conclusions, but they may make you reassess what you think you already know.<br />One of the high points of the book is the treatment of General George Thomas. One of the greatest generals of the war, Thomas has been often overlooked for many reasons (including the fact that he was a Southerner mistrusted by the North, he did not get along well with Grant, and he died shortly after the war leaving no memoirs.)What you read here will leave you hungry for more information on the great forgotten man of the Civil War.<br />Buell writes well, his prose moves swiftly, and though he covers the general's actions in many battles, he never gets bogged down in the details that are more appropriately left to books that cover a particular campaign.<br />Read this book and you will discover something almost as rare as a Burnside victory - fresh ideas about the Civil War.<br /><br />Theo Logost get along well with Grant, and he died shortly after the war leaving no memoirs.)What you read here will leave you hungry for more information on the great forgotten man of the Civil War.  Buell writes well, his prose moves swiftly, and though he covers the general's actions in many battles, he never gets bogged down in the details that are more appropriately left to books that cover a particular campaign.  Read this book and you will discover something almost as rare as a Burnside victory - fresh ideas about the Civil War.      Theo Logos	2004-06-01
US	47624974	R8AXAYJS4CA9M	1886778523	840159204	Silverlock: Including the Silverlock Companion (Nesfa's Choice, 26)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A unique, amazing, and little known masterpiece	Upon first discovering Silverlock 22 years ago, I was struck with a sense of amazing wonderment which must have filled the discovers of the New World when they first saw a new land totally unlike any they had seen before. A masterwork of fantasy on par with Tolkien in quality, yet truly unique, being derivative of nothing else, Silverlock is a classic that works on several levels. First, it is a bang-up good adventure yarn, following the misadventures of the title character from his ship wreck in unknown waters through many close scrapes, battles, drinking bouts, and wenchings in the enchanted realm of the Commonwealth of Letters. Secondly, it is an allegory, following the development of Silverlock from a cold cynic with no respect for or knowledge of the world of literature, to an enthusiastic aspirant maker of tales. And finally, it is an incredible literary game of 'identify that reference', as every person, place, and thing in Silverlock, outside of the protagonist is lifted from the vast range of literature and myth, from Gilgamesh to Mark Twain.<br /><br />These literary references and the way Silverlock interacts with them create the unique magic of this book. Typical of the scenes that you will find here is Silverlock emerging from the forest where the night before he has been the guest of Robin Hood and his merry band, stopping at a tavern and lunching with the Mad Hatter and his party, and pushing on for an evening feast at Heorot Hall, where the revelers are celebrating the death of Grendel by recounting the tale of the Alamo in Norse verse. All this and more in but one chapter.<br /><br />Nesfa Press' new edition of Silverlock has the added advantage of including The Silverlock Companion, which among other things includes an alphabetical listing of all the literary allusions, and a bibliography of books containing the poems, stories, and legends to which allusion is made in Silverlock.<br /><br />Silverlock is a book you will come back to many times. I just finished my third reading of it, which certainly will not be my last. This is a book to keep, treasure, and share. Buy two copies, one for you, and one to lend and share the magic<br /><br />Theo Logosreading of it, which certainly will not be my last. This is a book to keep, treasure, and share. Buy two copies, one for you, and one to lend and share the magic    Theo Logos	2004-05-02
US	47624974	R2CUW5TEECBUCS	0700606505	104610742	The Confederacy's Last Hurrah: Spring Hill, Franklin, and Nashville (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	38	45	N	N	Beware the fury of Lost Causers	The Confederacy's Last Hurrah is an outstanding book that combines first rate research with a novelist's eye for vivid recreation of the brutal chaos that is battle. Sword's talent also shines in breathing life into the cast of characters involved, from the Generals to the common soldier.<br />This book seems to strike a nerve with those who only see the war through the romance-tinted glasses of the \\"Lost Cause\\". They blast Sword for his unapologetic scorn for Hood's leadership of his army, and seem to refuse to admit even the obvious - that Hood was advanced in rank beyond his capabilities. That Hood was a brave and gallant soldier and an outstanding fighter leading a brigade is without question. That he lacked the vision or intelligence to effectively lead an army would seem to be equally beyond question to any fair observer.<br />What those attacking Sword for his treatment of Hood overlook is that the target of his disgust is not just Hood, who intrigued for a job beyond his ken, but Bragg and Davis, who promoted him while repeatedly snubbing the most brilliant general in the Army of Tennessee, Patrick Cleburne. Cleburne, called by Davis the Stonewall of the West, was never the less passed by for promotion four times after he had dared to suggest a plan for saving the Confederacy by freeing and enlisting slaves. The implied question of The Confederacy's Last Hurrah is how might things have been different had those in charge been less obtuse, and Cleburne's talents were put to use for his cause commanding the army, while Hood served as he served best, leading a brigade? It is clear that Sword feels that the senseless slaughter that was the battle of Franklin, and the virtual destruction of the Army of the Tennessee at the battle of Nashville happened because of the pride, vanity, and blindness of the Southern leadership who promoted the brave but wooden Hood over the brilliant Cleburne.<br />Unless you become enraged when someone calls the conflict the Civil War instead of the War of Northern Aggression, you will find this book thrilling and informative<br /><br />Theo Logoshe War of Northern Aggression, you will find this book thrilling and informative    Theo Logos	2004-01-30
US	47624974	RXEXUGLTWZYWU	0252065956	940701657	The Shipwreck of Their Hopes: The Battles for Chattanooga (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Comprehensive but dry	Cozzen has produced the comprehensive tome on the battle of Chattanooga. All the information you need to understand the flow of battle as well as the political intriguing that helped to shape the results is here. What is mostly lacking is a spark of life, or a sense of being there. With a few exceptions, Cozzen's battle descriptions have more of the feel of a wargame played out on a map than the chaotic, life and death struggle that it surely was. For those who have an interest in the battle, you should have this book, for reference, if for nothing else. Be aware that it is dry, and more of a book that you must work at to get to its virtues than a thrilling read. I would only recommend this book to those with a serious interest in the battle of Chattanooga, but for them, it is a must have.<br /><br />Theo Logos	2004-01-29
