US	47717519	R1O2PBMKD6KW1K	0892819278	348975328	DMT: The Spirit Molecule: A Doctor's Revolutionary Research into the Biology of Near-Death and Mystical Experiences	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Interesting.... very, very interesting...	This book teems with ideas, to say just about the very least.  The subject, DMT, is certainly interesting: a psychedelic drug that is hanging out in your brain as you read this!  Its natural release internally may contribute to the occurrence of dreams and hallucinations as well as mystical experiences and enlightenment according to this book.  It's dwelling in your pineal gland, also of interest.  The chemical core between your brain's hemisphere yet not constructed of brain matter.  Not only that but it develops out of the fetal mouth at seven weeks and also when gender appears.  (Also when, according to the Tibetan Book of the Dead, a disincarnated soul becomes reincarnated-though I'm personally certainly not arguing for metempsychosis or the existence of an individual soul-essence myself)  It was of no little significance before the advances of neuroscience however.  Rene Descartes believed it was the intersection point of the soul and brain, and Hindus considered it to be the site of the seventh chakra.   (I also found it curious though quite likely coincidental that in evolutionary younger animals the pineal gland functions literally like a third eye, and in Zen sudden enlightenment has been referred to as seeing with a satori eye. [In this case, seeing with DMT])  <BR>It is established as a basic point of the book, (something I've proven to myself), that mystical/meditative experience is of a more or less parallel nature to that induced by psychedelic chemicals.  The book goes into very elaborate detailed descriptions of the DMT induced experiences of the volunteers.  While some had the most meaningful and uplifting moments of their entire existence, a few had dreadful encounters with macabre entities.  Others had strange trips through inner space to bizarre circuses and futuristic beehives.  And to think that South American tribes have been doing this stuff for centuries.<BR>It is a fact that the somatist attitude of empirical science will be averse to someof his ideas, at the very least his heuristic \\"life force\\" vitalism.  (And I don't know about the whole \\"seeing dark matter\\" ordeal!)  But nonetheless if you are interested in the drug the vast amounts of direct information and experience within this book make it worthwhile.  And even if you don't deal well with the mystical it is still interesting to read of mystical experience (as nothing more than a chemically altered state of perception of course) and its relations to psychedelic drugs.  If any of the aforementioned topics interest you at all then I confidently proceed to highly recommend this work.	2002-10-13
US	47717519	R39XY18CGNZYIA	0804831076	230014347	Zen Poetry of Dogen	Books	5	16	16	N	N	pleasant	Firstly, I must forewarn that my fivestar rating may be an overly biased praise of this book because I have never read any other books about Dogen, yet for this reason I thoroughly enjoyed it from start to finish.  But it was undoubtedly well written and explained.<BR>In Dogen I'm left with different impressions than I am with the \\"stereotypical\\" Zen Masters (if there is such a thing) who retain an apparent lack of emotion and a \\"white foam at the mouth\\" (silence) other than when spouting seemingly paradoxical koans.  In these poetry collections the reader senses his deep and genuine humanity.  He is more open to verbal expression of the Truth (which would make sense for a poet) than the aforementioned Zen Masters.  (the wall-gazing Brahmin's \\"A special transmission outside the teachings/No reliance on words and letters\\") He does not disagree on the ultimately inexpressability of Truth with ideas, but, as he himself puts it, <BR>\\"The Dharma, like an oyster<BR>Washed atop a high cliff:<BR>Even waves crashing against<BR>The reefy coast, like words, <BR>May reach but cannot wash it away.\\"<BR>He asserts that complementary creative resource of verbal expression \\"can display but not exhaust it.\\"<br />Emotionally, nearly all of the poems convey his unfathomably deep relations and extensions to the natural universe.  These are the most awe-inspiring and mystical feelings one can possess, and certainly something overlooked by much of the modern world.  Whether or not a Buddhist is to consider Dogen as bona fide as any other Zen Master, I would find it hard to believe that one would not find life in the devotion of his poetry.	2002-09-07
US	47717519	RDHP73VL2GT99	0262661659	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence Against the New Creationism (A Bradford Book)	Books	5	16	24	N	N	God did it!!!	The title of this review refers to the deus ex machina of explanatory theses in pseudo-science.  (also referred to by Pennock as the \\"poor person's explanations,\\" being one-size-fits-all)  This is undoubtedly the best book I have yet read concerning the ironic debate of Creationism vs. Evolution.  Like \\"The Triumph of Evolution\\" (which you can also find my review of onsite) it is NOT a book written to undermine theism, religion, or Christianity.  This is to refute the ideas that supernatural creation can be scientific or subject to science, or that it should be publicly taught parallel to evolution in schools as being equally meritorious,  (as if creationist propaganda was anywhere close to being up to par with evolutionary biology), or that evolution  undermines morality, and last but not least the evolution=atheism equation.  Evolution is \\"godless\\" in the same way that plumbing is godless, as he shows it.  Is the Bible in danger because of the fact that a plumber does not invoke a divine agent to explain clogged pipes?  Neither are against god--they can't be because neither of the fields mention anything of god.  It was the creationists who said it, not \\"us.\\"  Similarly, to teach Genesis in a biology class is inconsistent.  Should a young physics student, upon observing light split into colors through a prism, be taught an \\"alternative\\" theory of God's covenant and creation of the rainbow?<br />It is noted how Creationism itself has evolved.  Once restricted to \\"young-Earthers,\\" now Christians like Michael Behe bring forth the slyly euphimistic \\"Intelligent-Design Theory.\\"  And you see this is really clever because they don't make any explicit reference to religion here but propose only that information, such as that in DNA, was teleological designed by some intelligent Other.<br />It is in the interest of anyone to not want Creationism in the schools.  Regardless of your take on theism/religion these people are taking their faith, revelation, and interpretation of scripture into pedagogical indoctrination.  Anyone who values religious freedom should oppose forcing a fallacious choice on students in a soteriological duel between the falsely mutually exclusive evolution and creation.<br />Pennock is thoroughly patient and philsophical..<br />Creationists! This one's for you!scripture into pedagogical indoctrination.  Anyone who values religious freedom should oppose forcing a fallacious choice on students in a soteriological duel between the falsely mutually exclusive evolution and creation.<br />Pennock is thoroughly patient and philsophical..<BR>Creationists! This one's for you!	2002-08-14
US	47717519	R2KTFE68N57Y96	0861711580	351367761	Dreaming in the Lotus: Buddhist Dream Narrative, Imagery, and Practice	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Not bad at all	This is a book that I have on many an occasion wished to read, and the other day I finally picked it up from the half-priced book store, and finished it in two days.  Young's historical view of Buddhist dreaming theory is well documented and for the most part objective.  Firstly, dreams are viewed as a means to the end of ontological insight that brings one to the realization of shunyata-emptiness.  Both dreaming and waking function on the same Apollian level where entities exist only as mental constructs devoid of self inherent essence.  In early Indian Buddhism dreams play a large role in the life stories of the Buddha himself and other saints.  Buddhist dream theory, like Buddhism itself emerged from and proceeded to distinguish itself from Brahmanical tradition.  Buddha is said to have interpreted many macabre nightmares and visions in a new light of benevolence and good fortune.  This brings me to the next point that in Buddhism, as in virtually all ancient systems of thought, dreams are regarded as containing prophetic value and foresight pertaining to experiences that will evince in the future.  The book acknowledges several times the Asian belief that a dream is not HAD but SEEN i.e. stems externally rather than internally and thus a divine or demonic agent bestows the experience over one's sleeping state.  There is also a unique interpretation of dream symbols and archetypes, especially so in Tibetan Buddhism.  (which also has its own ritual dream yoga)  Unfortunately, as evidenced in their symbolic musings there is a sign that even the peaceful and loving religion of the Buddha has in its history inferiority imposed on females.  Some of the objects of intense study are how dream theory manifested itself in Tibetan Buddhism, Milarepa, and the Jatakas.  It is my opinion however that, for the modern Buddhist, however important dreams may be not all of the ancient thought on them should be retained because some of it is mere imaginative superstition. (but I guess that goes for all religion)  I guess I'm just thinking in terms of modern dreamwork where meaning tends to be more so than not individualized.  Not only that but many of the symbols and their respective interpretations arose from and were dependent on the cultural context from which Buddhism arose.  Basically all I'm saying is that I wouldn't ritualize in order to appease any deity after a bad dream.  (But I'm also not saying that the book tried to argue in favor of this, just sharing an opinion of my own)	2002-08-01
US	47717519	RHMLCQISRXLJ7	1570628939	575639512	Gentle Bridges: Conversations with the Dalai Lama on the Sciences of Mind	Books	4	17	26	N	N	The Dalai Lama's a great guy,but I think sometimes overrated	This book presents us with a few men of ancient Eastern tradition interlocuting with a few men of Socratic Western tradition on the nature of the world around us.  Before any specifics of scientific architectonics are covered, they question the method of science.  Logical positivism is questioned, and they do not attempt to invalidate it but do attempt to jeopardize its optimistic infallibility.  Despite this doubt, it is also discovered that the Dalai Lama's Buddhist attitude is nearly identical with science, and that he emphasizes direct experience over tradition or scripture.  (though one of his sacred texts proclaims a flat Earth, he does not try to retain belief in it due to the more recent discovery that our planet is indeed not flat.)  There are other times where he does however introduce the Buddhist cosmology.  It has never occurred to me however that this should be of any concern to Buddhism.  The stories of the Buddha himself portray him as abstaining from any theological discussions on such things as cosmogony.  I ask you to recall his response to such questions as 'is the world eternal.'  He did not answer.  The purpose of following the Dharma was to eliminate sorrow from life, not to find answers as many neophytes to Christianity and other overly theistic religions do.  So for example, I do not see why it matters so much to the Dalai Lama whether or not consciousness is generated from and dependent on brain chemistry.  In the book he says that a Buddhist cannot accept this idea.  He says that you must either believe that the universe just happened to form itself for no particular reason at some point or that consciousness has an eternal origin.  I know that this idea is essential to some other Buddhist ideas on the nature of mind, BUT if it were proven indisputable that consciousness was only an emergent property of neurological arrangements, it would not destroy the Four Noble Truths upon which the Buddhist way of life rests.  So in a certain sense these disagreements I see as outside of Buddhist concerns.<br />Nonetheless this work is a delightful read and includes multitudes of other scientific (and Buddhist) issues like nervous systems (spanning from hydra to human), artificial intelligence, ontogenetic neurology, and behaviorism.  Lots of jewels.	2002-07-28
US	47717519	R3TKJAHDDPMF29	081120104X	619571111	Zen and the Birds of Appetite	Books	4	22	24	N	N	&quot;reality appeared again in its mysterious suchness&quot;	This 1968 publication is one of the most honest and objective interfaith dialogues I have yet encountered--atleast between Buddhism and Christianity.  To unite them though and get past their mulititudes of blatant differences of opinion, it casts away the baggage of conventional religious doctrines and compares the mystical experiences of Christian mystic Meister Eckhart and those of the Japanese Zen masters.  Under the discriminatory appearances of the doctrines present in both the essence is unified as the same.  He refers to this fundamental truth with the equation zero=infinity.  He describes the experience of being empty (the emptiness known as Shunyata) and simultaneously being full (in the Christ spirit of love).  Now, you must understand that I am no theist atleast in any practical or religious sense but I still appreciate what he means with these terms and they do take on personal meaning.  And that is the most important message underlying this book: namely, that true religion is not &quot;religion&quot; at all.  <BR>Or, to use his own words: &quot;To define Zen in terms of a religious system or structure is in fact to destroy it, or rather to miss it completely, for what cannot be 'constructed' cannot be destroyed either.	2002-07-15
US	47717519	R38RJ5UF92G69C	0375420991	698016477	The Book of Nothing: Vacuums, Voids, and the Latest Ideas About the Origins of the Universe	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Nothing as something	This book is a magnificent trip.  Just in the way that it covers the information that it does alone, in relation to a great nothingness and all of its counterparts, makes it a stimulating cosmic voyage.  But that voyage starts at home: planet Earth.  It starts out pretty philosophical discussing the abstraction known as zero.  It covers the cultural acceptance and interpretations throughout the scope of written history of zero, nothing, and void.  The Babylonians and Mayans, and last but not least Indians ( in their dynamic mystical lexicon frequently concerned with being and nothingness) were the only cultures to really designate the concept with a zero-like symbol.  The Greeks, commonly thought of as the masterminds at the source of modern logic and mathematical thinking, had no such symbol for a concept thought devoid of physical value.  The time capsule then picks up to the last several centuries (the times of the Scientific Revolution), and physicists earlier attempts to construct a physical vacuum against the vicious abhorrence of nature to such a monstrosity.  To call it a monstrosity is not much of an exaggeration but probably closer to a euphemism, for people like Augustine proclaimed the bizarre concept a satanic heresy.  Many many other related concepts are discussed that I will not delve into detail pertaining to, such as the Cartesian theory of the vortices and the life of the outdated theory of an all pervading and fluid Ether.  Then, slowly approaching the modern day it carries the reader into the domain of &quot;empty universes&quot;,  and Einsteins familiar notions of spacetime and curvature.  Overall I found the Book of Nothing a pleasure of a read that intertwines science, philosophy, and math all into one great contemplation of nothing.	2002-05-09
US	47717519	R297P9V238LL3G	0691089264	835564493	Our Cosmic Habitat	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Cosmic Life	This book is what I would call a big-picture overview of the cosmos.  It is discussed from all sized scales and from the viewpoint of a possible multiverse.  The forces and constants of Nature are the philosophical subjects from these horizons.  They certainly are fine-tuned for life, biophilic, since it (life) could not exist with any slight alterations in them.  And if there is a multiverse, then just as placements of galaxy clusters are results of our own cosmic history, our own universe's physical laws may only be bylaws that are not mulitversal, they may likewise be historic accidents-ones that sustain an intelligent cosmos.  I recommend this to those who want a condensed but comprehensive overview of cosmology, because it is nothing outstanding or profound but a practical guide to begin thought about the cosmos' and our own beginnings.	2002-03-24
US	47717519	RL7D5S9ERMT5C	1874166994	349048775	Introducing Descartes	Books	4	10	10	N	N	you'd think people know how this series works by now	This is a perfect read for the layman who maybe doesn't have long periods of time to devote to reading who has the desire to learn about the father of modern philosophy and its problem of consciousness. I easily completed this book within one afternoon. Though it has a typical amount of pages, the comic-like format turns the read into a swift breeze filled with humor and creativity. It begins with explaining why Descartes is the father of modern philosophy, namely that he thought for himself (in a departure from Scholasticism). Though he retained Christian belief throughout his life, he was a very rational and mathematically minded person in the field of science that he managed to keep secular in practice, though it would ultimately be verified on God the Geometer's grounds. Aside from his biography, this Cartesian exordium lays out the philosophy of mind and all of the perspectives on it. (dual aspect monism, occasionalism, epiphenomenalism, materialism, functionalism, behaviourism, cognitivism and pyschophysical parallelism--for some more recent takes on the ghost in the machine I recommend Colin Mcginn's \\"The Mysterious Flame\\") Inevitably these talks bring up the issue of artificial intelligence and conscious automata.<BR>Obviously like any other book in the \\"Introducing\\" series this book is simple, general, and fun, but at the same time comprehensive and a great starting point.	2002-02-25
US	47717519	R3U40KV7L6MIRP	0805071474	234644233	The Triumph of Evolution: and the Failure of Creationism	Books	4	9	11	N	N	admirable	I read this book several months ago.  I remember that yes, as other reviewers have pointed out, that at times the work is little else than a deconstruction of young-earth creationism ideology, but their tone suggests that something like this is not needed in the present day!  This horrible mindset known as &quot;Scientific&quot; Creationism is still out flourishing evolutionary theory today, not to mention providing the basis for beliefs that the Earth and the animal kingdom exist merely as human utilities and that any enviromental concerns are useless because the biosphere was a unique instantaneous creation intended for man's advantage only.  (Some may be skeptical that such notions exist, but they are in the back of many believer's heads.  As a vegan I have been asked by a Christian, &quot;If animals do not exist for us to have food, then what?&quot;  Well, this is no different than, &quot;If blacks do not exist for us to have slaves... then what?&quot;)<br /> Creationism, or so-called scientific creationism, is inherently unscientific.  It is an ideology that fails to make any intellectually compelling or empirically testable statements about the natural world.  When confronting evolutionary biology, the exposure of Creationism's fallacious arguments and maxims can only force them to crawl back into their religio-political shells of self-transcending identification.  Biology is a field of bona fide science, and thus cannot be forced seamlessly into their literal hermenuetical frameworks of reality. In their attacks, (which have a tendency to only belligerently attempt dismantling Darwinism rather than proposing scientific models of nature) they evade this truth by chicanery and rhetoric pulsating with ignorance that molds the field of evolutionary thought into an unscientific pipe-dream.  (Thus evoking a paradox: biological study of organisms is speculation rested on &quot;atheistic&quot; faith and thus a &quot;religion&quot;, and yet Genesis being literally true is a form of science.  But if science and religion are at odds then Genesis must not be religious either.  An absurdity indeed.)  This &quot;speculation&quot; is then recurringly labeled &quot;ONLY a theory.&quot;  Well in the field of science a &quot;theory&quot; under constant attack for almost two centuries and still the paradigm is triumphant indeed.  Everything in science is essentially &quot;ONLY a theory&quot;, but some are better than others.  That faulty statement is not pejorative to evolution, but a well-deserved complement. Then they put forth the blind notion that evolutionary theory fulfills no predictions since we do not have adequate time scale resources to view speciation.  If evolutionary theory is true, then we should see a intertwined hierarchial tree of life.  We do.  (the Linnaean Hierarchy)  The fossil record should reveal glimpses of extinct precursors to the complex diversity which gives color to the fabric of life we see today.  Again, we do.  Evolution meets the observation making and then explaining techniques of genuine scientific inquiry based on deductable facts.  The web of life forms past and present are the undeniable observations and evolution is the best scientific theory to account for the explanation of their existence with no magic involved.<br /> Niles should help augment your knowledge on evolutionary thought as well.  He has his own general theory that he proposes, but not as absolute truth.  (in the fashion of well-performed science, and unlike the fashion of creationism's cavemen who propose their propagandas as theopneusty)  First, he acknowledges the two mechanisms of natural selection.  There is mutation and gene replication singled out and focused on by scientists such as Dawkins, and then enviromental factors and cataclysms which result sometimes in rapid variegations in the fabric of the biosphere.  Both are attributed to evolution in aviodance of Galton's error.<br /> As silly as soteriological science is,  at onetime in my life, still being an ignoramus, I advocated it and believed the lies of this psuedoscience ecumenicism.  A shame it is, sad but true.  It is a book like this that I needed, and that true believers today still need to vindicate rationality.  It should be noted that in absolutely no way is this a book against religion or Christianity, it is a book of solid scientific refutations against the fanatical fundamentalism which under the guise of scientific truth aims to save the souls of future generations.<br />&quot;If this stuff is science, why do we need a law to teach it?&quot;in my life, still being an ignoramus, I advocated it and believed the lies of this psuedoscience ecumenicism.  A shame it is, sad but true.  It is a book like this that I needed, and that true believers today still need to vindicate rationality.  It should be noted that in absolutely no way is this a book against religion or Christianity, it is a book of solid scientific refutations against the fanatical fundamentalism which under the guise of scientific truth aims to save the souls of future generations.<br />&quot;If this stuff is science, why do we need a law to teach it?&quot;	2002-02-11
US	47717519	R1E3CRC23UNPN0	0809318458	950336547	Breaking the Circle: Death and the Afterlife in Buddhism	Books	4	16	17	N	N	webooth...	Breaking the Circle is a comprehensive account of comparative religion between schools of Buddhist thought concerning the nature of death and life's continuity from death forward.  After first vindicating the theory of rebirth, its karmic nature is discussed--namely, how the karma of previous existences can effect one another in the light of annata: the view that there is no soul, in opposition to belief in a Vedic/Hindu atman.  While the Buddha taught that an enduring self did not exist, it seems he as well taught that the action of the dying person was in a contiguous cause-and-effect relationship with the birth of a new being.  This version of rebirth however, suggests a casual continuity between one birth and the next without requiring that the two be identified as the same person.  What exists is an instantaneous rebirth of thought complexes, neither identical with nor unrelated to the dying person and not definable in terms of a single permanent underlying substance.  Within a Buddhist worldview accepting psychic phenomena it is explained how these elements survive with the death of the location-specific physical body.  pp 17, \\"pyschic components (khandas) neither exist nor cease to exist when dissociated from their cranial counterparts; they simply are not amenable to temporal measurements until they are again affiliated with neurophysiological structures existing within this temporal continuum.\\"<BR> However, my personal understanding of the Buddha's words has always been along much more naturalistic lines.  With annata established, it is apparent that although there may not be an immutable soul, the illusion of one certainly arises at times.  This character is characterised by thoughts picked up along the way simulating originality of consciousness.  The other possibility is that they are an original combination of thoughts, creativity, but nontheless acquired elsewhere.  Thus anything you say or do can be potentially be plagiarized at a later setting by another being, thus emphasizing the importance of positive thoughts and not sending out \\"bad vibes.\\"  In this view, previous existences are no more than those who have thought and felt what you think and feel what you do now, and in that way still causally conditioning your present individuality.<BR> As the book traverses each tradition of Gautama's belief in an afterworld (Pure Land, Theravadin, Mahayana, Vajrayahna) its noted that there are similar landscapes recounted in NDE's, ancient Christianity, Pure Land Buddhism, and medieval Asia.  What I speak of are intersubjective surrealities.  These dreams may result from common human brain chemistries.  Several  models for survival and continuity are explained.  But the \\"Pure Land\\" of blissful dreaming is usually only a purgatorian transition from material suffering into the liberation of Nirvana or a place to meet back up with loved ones.  Things like this are hard to believe on faith alone (and silly) but definitely cool thoughts.  Yet there is also attempts all throughout to make such notions compatible with modern scientific knowledge.<BR> The last section deals with suicide, which Buddhists surprisingly accept.  (though not under all conditions)  It all depends on the the state of mind inhabiting the organism upon the moment of death and thus its reasons for manifesting a voluntary death.  <BR> This book was very informative and highly interesting but loses one star for a lacking structural style.  No doubt a fine work on the subject.  :)	2002-02-10
US	47717519	R306ZAQ1WU7MK1	0395877431	161295356	Demonic Males: Apes and the Origins of Human Violence	Books	5	11	16	N	N	((Omnipotent the Creator may be, but not weird))   pp.41	This exciting exploration of primate phylogeny and cross-cultural anthropology examining social behavior is what seems to me knowledge to power a path for a better human world.   That's my first complement to the authors--by uncovering biological causes for aggressive social behavior they are not deemed natural and thus to be embraced.  There are no attempted justifications for war, rape, or the overlooked aggression of patriotism and carnivorism.  These things have prevented us from any sort of external paradise.  I'm not suggesting any belief that utopias are attainable, but only that scientific explanations are beneficial to us for advancement.  Or as they've put it on pp. 107, &quot;There is no such thing as paradise, not in the South Seas, not in southern Greece, not anywhere.  There never has been.  To find a better world we must look not to a  romanticized and dishonest dream forever receding into the primitive past, but to a future that rests on a proper understanding of ourselves.&quot;  In their study of bonobos we catch a glimpse of a forgotten rustic path never taken in the development of earlier humans.  There is less male violence, and a greater balance of power between genders.  By learning about close evolutionary relatives and the sources of their violence we can learn alot about ourselves and our options for a more arcadian societal enviroment.  The language constructed by the human mind allow cultural dimensions of war to make it become more dynamic and complicated as well as more self-deceiving and confused than that of, say, chimpanzee intercommunity violence, but their similarity and common sources are apparent through observation.  And to that is what the essential question of the book pertains, &quot;did we leave the old ape brain behind?  Did we at some point simply jettison the whole thing as a worthless relic from the troubling shadow of time?  Or is the elaborate, nervous and anxious and proud, superstitious and self-deceiving edifice ofcerebral material that makes up our humanity still deeply infused with the essence of that ancient forest brain?&quot; (pp. 62)<BR>Aside from content, this book was written well enough that it became hard to put down at times.  All and all a definite recommendation of mine.	2002-01-06
US	47717519	RIDDGMH1J2RM1	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	5	5	6	N	N	&quot;Monster in Nature,less possible than a Chimera or Centaure&quot;	HYPERSPACE is an amazingly comprehensive account of modern theoretical physics for the non-scientist.  His description of higher dimensions recapitulates all of the mind games played in Rucker's book, &quot;The Fourth Dimension.&quot;  He goes over the structure of scientific revolutions and explores Einstein's hagiography.  Einstein's famous equations are explained.  Not only are they explained in their natural elegant context but it is explained how they are &quot;marble.&quot;  It was Einstein's dream to grasp the universe by the pure thought of mathematics, to turn the entire cosmos into &quot;marble&quot; with seemless equations.  Thus, 'God does not play dice.'  The world of the quantum is far from &quot;marble&quot; however with its &quot;wood&quot; of uncertainty and nonrenormalizable models.  The puzzle confronting scientists is how to mesh the wood in to the marble.  He explains how the wood and marble are very explanatory paradigms against the four forces governing the cosmos.  Gravity is beautifully accounted for by Einstein's relativity--which does nothing for the story of subatomic particles.  However, quantum theory's Standard Model takes over here and describes the nuclear forces and electromagnetism.  It is here that hyperspace, or supergravity, is revealed in its subsuming aspects.  With the ten dimensional universe, all of our familiar forces are unified.  I think one of the most awesome things I read was the &quot;Parable of the Gemstone.&quot;  He does not leave it off here, but moves on to other cosmology like wave functions, many worlds, and baby universes--then civilization and technology.  Highly recommended to keep you up with recent thinking.	2001-10-15
US	47717519	R1JE23Q39JBX0L	0465014232	622970316	The Mysterious Flame: Conscious Minds in a Material World	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Few answers, but the right questions (for future mind study)	Panpsychism...Dualism...Hyperdualism...Materialism...AH Mysterianism!<BR>Conciousness is a datum, however simultaneously a mysterious conundrum that we have not been tuned to understand.  We experience it, seemlingly nonspatially, through our brains.  The mindset known as materialism draws little or no distinction between brain and mind--the latter being an illusion of the former.  This model is a tool for sustaining the uniformity of nature, yet only nature as we see it.  Rather than using this as an excuse to abhor understanding consciousness as a radically different experience only CAUSED by the brain, Colin Mcginn urges us to find new properties of the brain to distinguish it from other physical objects, since it IS true that mind and brain are two different worlds. (yet this is no warrant for accepting dualism in its entirety)  If they were essentially the same, then a whole multitude of falsehoods would be true.  For example, knowledge of one's brain would be tantamount to knowledge of one's mind.  From having only knowledge of a brain's neurology alone, it is quite possible that we would never guess that it seated consciousness, being that a brain appears to be mere meat.  And if you had knowledge of my own personal neurology would you know anything about my mind and its thoughts?  Possibly nothing at all.  (As I would put it, perhaps there is a binding element between neurology and pyschology) And if mind were equal to the physical brain, well then knowledge of any animal's neurology would generate understanding of their consciousness.  We cannot understand a bat's experience and perception by studying its brain.  We can learn ABOUT its perception but we cannot directly experience what it is like to be a bat.  That is because consciousness is only directly experienced through a brain, something that sets it aside from known physical objects in our spatial realm and picture of reality--i.e. it is our picture of reality.  But to continue the justified devotionto nature's uniformity, it must only be our limited viewpoint of space that makes consciousness seem nonspatial.  Perhaps it is a sign of higher or hidden aspects of reality.  These possibilities are explored in the cosmological chapter &quot;Mind Space.&quot;  True knowledge depends on the right kind of mediation between world and mind.  Somehow a greater world could encompass the mind.  {Objectively, we are naturally constituted from smoothly meshing materials, as seamless as anything else in nature.}pp 230	2001-10-02
US	47717519	RI8IZF2N0DITU	1561840564	441945100	Prometheus Rising	Books	5	29	33	N	N	I dunno 'bout you, but I still haven't found any quarters !!	I better keep this short so you wouldn't get the false idea that you might not have to read this book if you get a thorough synopsis of it.  (hehehe)  The author states that this book is about unleashing our full stature. His book delves into the tunnel vision of our brains for the most part. That is, it explores the tunnels of reality which we create, kind of like the book I just read 'masks of the universe', yet Prometheus Rising explores them much deeper and makes it very interesting, makes you really think, and makes you laugh alot at the same time with alot of satirical comic relief factors. His model of pyschology is that of Timothy Leary, where our behaviour and thought emerges from the activity of eight neurological circuits. Therein the mindsets of rationalists, mystics, and yogis just to name a few are probed. There is alot to do with our evolution and survival as well and the 'negentropy' which characterizes our evolution. Last but not least every chapters completes itself with a list of several comprehension exercises that give you a bona fide feel for &quot;tunnel vision.&quot; I recommend this to, basically anyone--but especially those with a keen interest in Jungian pyschology, mind control, mysticism, evolution, and to a lesser degree drugs and occultism. Side note: Wilson did happen to make a few false predictions in his own reality tunnel, thinking that by our time (this was written in the 80s) we would have mastered the techniques of immortality.<BR>Enjoy!!!	2001-09-04
US	47717519	R12ZT6AVBIVR6Q	0020209800	965493966	Masks of the Universe	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Do no over look cases of gods, God, universes, &amp; Universe	This book touches on the subject of many different universes. Now, when you hear this you might automatically think I'm talking about the Hugh Everett's many-worlds-interpretation of quantum mechanics. Whereas the infinite universes of that idea are taken to be the objective universes of a Universe (the multiverse), Edward Harrison is talking about the universes taken to be the subjective universes (of our creating) of The Universe. (ultimate objective reality, perhaps even the multiverse)<BR>He does not have any comforting truths about the Universe found here. He aims to show us that we strive to reach such absolutes from a cloud of unknowing and instead create our own limited models of The Universe--universes. The first chunk of his work is devoted to tracing the history of such universes. These cosmologies are as such: The Magic Universe, The Mythic Universe, The Geometric Universe, The Medieval Universe, The Infinite Universe, and The Mechanistic Universe. Thus this concatenation is also deeply intertwined with our religions and spiritual evolution. Also, it is blatant that with each new picture of reality the universe becomes more mechanistic, less alive, and always contains some &quot;mythology&quot; of the previous one.<BR>[pp.40 &quot;a myth is any component taken from the world-view of another society that fails to fit naturally into our own.&quot;<BR>pp.117 &quot;At last we come to the twentieth century. Adrift like shipwrecked mariners, in a vast and meaningless mechanistic universe, we are found clingin for life to the cosmic wreckage of ancient universes.&quot;]<BR>The middle fraction of his book introduces some of the ideas of modern physics from the quantum dance of subatomic particles, to a treatise on general relativity and understanding the curvature of space time as the gravity of the outdated Newtonian universe. It then proceeds to expose a less rational universe that was left out of the pantheon of the original chapters--The Witch Universe. Withthis perspective of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance he ties into the question of what is valid science by using Popper's philosophy of falsifiable facts.<BR>This all leads into his final message about The Universe, the Absolute Reality. We aim to know it by creating universes, but that The Universe remains unknowable. He thinks exactly the same of God. We aim to know &quot;him&quot; by creating gods, but God remains truly unknowable. He offers valuable scientific insight against these gods of classical theism and divine intervention or special creation, but claims that the true &quot;God&quot; is still beyond doubt since both God and The Universe are the same inconceivable Ultimate Reality. ( since The Universe no doubt is real, and he equates that reality with God, thus creating a simple theosyllogism ) But then shouldn't &quot;gods&quot; and &quot;universes&quot; be pictures of the same thing? They clearly aren't. (yet he says they can be equated, if we wish to, on pp.267) YHWH doesn't equal quantum mechanics. Though he has acknowledged that gods and universes are confused with absolute truth, my point is that this means little when you have changed the definition of God so much from external anthromopomorhized beings to the sum of all that is--or--The Universe. (I suppose you could equally change the definition of Satan to The Universe and say that Satan no doubt exists.) Though I understand his idea and the reasons why it is embraced ( I used to profess the same thing ), I have realized that it is too much of a misnomer for me to still say that, &quot;I believe there exists a God.&quot; Not that it is quite illogical or absurd, but only that I think it is pointless to say that anyone who believes in the universe before them believes in the &quot;existence&quot; of God. (So was Carl Sagan unknowingly a theist?) It is pointless in the paradigm of classical theism, something which is irrational and even absurd. I do not think this idea should be used until youcan change the people's view to this paradigm of Absolute Reality (which is in itself a &quot;universe&quot;) since in the meantime God is taken in the widespread context of classical theism. Why perpetuate theistic thinking at all when all you have really done is taken the word &quot;God&quot; away from the essence of theism and applied it to a new definition of something we already have a name for--The Universe. ?<BR>This was a highly enjoyed and appreciable book that I would not refuse to recommend (though I don't make it incumbent on the reader) yet in the end he makes the flaw of constructing his own universe of &quot;The Universe&quot;. He even said himself &quot;I hold that it is impossible to find proof of the existence of God within the framework of a particular universe, for all universes are the handiwork of human beings.&quot;---pp.263	2001-09-04
US	47717519	RV5C18HECMFCL	014027541X	727745356	The Fabric of Reality: The Science of Parallel Universes--and Its Implications	Books	4	7	7	N	N	~~~~~~~traversing the threads of the multiverse.............	According to an anecdote, someone asked Ernest Hemingway what personal or intellectual traits he thought a good writer should have.  He supposedly responded, \\"A built-in, shock-proof crap detector.\\"  I see David Deutsch as having such an innate mechanism, at least in the field of scientific inquiry.  The impression this amazing work has left on me is that he (Deutsch) has been capable of seeing through all of the clouds of confusion and nescience in science past and present, and with genuine comprehension constructed the most satisfactory model of the physicist's holy grail-the Theory of Everything.    Though it is still a minority view among other physicists, the framework that embodies his ultimate patchwork is the multiverse. (infinite number of parallel universes)  The multiverse has versimilitude also in philosophy, making certain philosophical ideas compatible with physics and spacetime, e.g. freewill, with enough fruitfulness that \\"it would be worth adopting even if there were no physical evidence for it at all.\\" (pp.339)   It has much reason to be upheld as currently the best model of reality to fit also observed physical phenomena.  Not only has he studied the observed phenomena of the natural world to conjure up this central thesis, but he has studied the whole philosophy and very definition of science itself.  Especially after reading chapter 4, I had a different vision of science, namely that it is not in search of objective facts, but more so the explanations behind these facts of reality.  Thus we are unlikely to reach the \\"End of Science\\" that John Hoorgan's at-most-average book mused on since we cannot rely on inductivism, thus we can only expect a further evolution to science-not a final end.  (pp.64: In science the object of the exercise is not to find a theory that will, or is likely to, be deemed true for ever; it is to find the best theory available now, and if pssible to improve on al lavailable theories.  Pp.142: There is indeed no logiccallynecessary connection between truth and explanatory power.))And alongside rejecting omniscience and inductivism, Deutsch rejects further as his tools common sense (for we have scientific theories to find the real truth that are more reliable, even IF counter-intuitive) instrumentalism (which is refuted on pp.4.  pp.7: To say that prediction is the purpose of a scientific theory is to confuse means with ends.)  positivism (..as logically follows from the fallacious instrumentalism and is false by its own criterion) holism, reductionism (we need to explain higher levels of life, thought, &amp; computation), solipsism, and even its mathematical counterpart intuitionism.  To avoid the \\"cold reductionism\\" of other scientists and their respective fields who seem to some narrow, inhuman, and pessimistic, Deutsch integrates physical reality on the multiverse basis of quantum mechanics, with its emergent fields of evolution, epistemology, and computation, into an emergent picture of the fabric reality understood by the four fundamental theories (strands) that explain it.  They are presented through the works of Dawkins, Popper, Turing, Everett.  (He gives one of the most satistfactory introductions to quantum mechanics I have ever read, though I warn that it is presented AS the many worlds interpretation, and does not fully introduce the convential interpreting)  All four of the above mentioned researchers' works have been simultaneously accepted for use in practice and ignored as explanations of reality.  One reason for this odd reaction is that each of the four theories has cold explanatory gaps, yet when taken together they bring clarity and visibility through the clouds of confusion and nescience in science past and present.  We can move to even better theories only if we take these best existing ones seriously in explaining our universe.<br />&quot;Listen; there's a hell of a good universe next door: let's go.&quot;    - E. E. Cummings (1894-1962), US poet.	2001-08-23
US	47717519	R1WTTU2AUPVCR5	1570270678	694587659	Flesh Machine; Cyborgs,Designer Babies, Eugenic Conscousness	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Who desires to become the flesh machine?-CIC (hactivist.com)	As most conspiracy theorists tend to do, Critical Art Ensemble presents a dark future for humanity.  But do think that I am trying to call them conspiracy theorists in the sense of wacky unrealistic neurotics who have seen the&quot; X-files&quot; one too many times.  Rather, their look at the future of politics and society is a realistic threat, especially since the lebensraum for eugenics is being set in the age of modern technology, soil for seeds that could not be fully sown in a time such as, say, Nazi Germany where the extent of eugenics was mandatory sterilization, selective breeding, and genocide. They have already exposed the pseudonyms that eugenic consciousness, cyborgs, and designer babies will take on to be socially 'acceptable'.  It is a recurrence of Social Darwinist thought, that of social and economic evolution.  But CAE undermines the thought of Darwin as manifest in society, socially--(not biologically, namely since natural selection is thought of as a random process and involving chance mutation, while that of society is planned and guided by the intelligence of authorities in their utopian megalomania)  If presented correctly in the correct settings, eugenics will be taken for granted.  It will eliminate biological causes of anti-social behavior, and drugs used to treat them will not be needed.  This attempt at a pure gene pool will be interpreted as the quality that consumers deserve for their dollar, and in the pancapitalist train of thought quality of life equals economic performance.  Parents will not want &quot;abnormal&quot; offspring who might be socio-economically unproductive in the working class.  Whether or not this future comes to pass in these extreme forms, these political philosophies of society are already sad but true, and yet, taken for granted by the masses as quite simply the way things are and always were.   If these thoughts sound absurd as realities, I would invite you to remember the first wave of attempts at a pure race,Nazi Germany.  Carl Gustav Jung wrote in his time, &quot;If 30 years ago anyone had dared to predict that our psychological development was tending towards a revival of the medieval persecutions of the Jews, that Europe again would tremble before the Roman fasces and the trampling of legions, that people would once more give the Roman salute, as 2000 years ago, and that instead of the Christian cross an archaic swastika would lure onwards millions of warriors ready for death--why that man would have been hooted a mystical fool. And today?  Surprising as it may seem, all this absurdity is a horrible reality.&quot; <br />Hopefully, CAE will never have to say 'told you so.'	2001-08-07
US	47717519	R267M0HIPXYQ1U	0061050334	301817583	The Book of End Times	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sagacious eyes of reason to a neopantheon of doomsday fears	This volume is certainly a bookworm like myself's anomaly and change in scenery.  Its appearance is more like a magazine.  (My ONLY complaint is the garish backgrounds that make the text difficult to concentrate on at times)  However, the book elucidates on the point that millenialism is absurd.  (Which we can certainly see in hindsight... us still being here into the year 2001 CE)  but that Apocalypticism is a realistic future in contradistinction with our fear of the sky falling at Y2K.  Now, that does not mean a literal construing of John's Revelation (one more absurdity) but that from our own doing as the crew of planet Earth that we may convert our fear of mortality into the death of our planet.  The Eschaton manifests itself repeatedly in media, sci-fi, conspiracy theories, and the like.  This work aims to shake some sense into the paranoid neurotics of this epoch.  It is a two-edged sword, sorting out the nonsense beliefs in UFO... probings and clandestine Satanic ritual abuse, but exposing that we could very well destroy our island home in the cosmos.<br />You cannot become bored with \\"The Book of End Times.\\"  The West has been drugged and lied to with the chicanery of prophets of doom and preachers of death... this is my prescription.  Not that this book alone would ever set us straight of the mass hypnosis and hysteria from the fears of fanatical fundamentalists, (Just as was pointed out in the book that the philosophical works of Hume were universally ignored, and the later {and lesser} works of Michael Shermer, in 'Why People Believe Weird Things')  but, seriously, check it out.  'goes well with Mick Farren's \\"Conspiracies, Lies, and Hidden Agendas\\" or/and Richard Abane's \\"End Time Visions\\"	2001-08-02
US	47717519	R3RFS8QTRT774U	0465072747	803545705	Nature's Numbers: The Unreal Reality Of Mathematics (Science Masters Series)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	A mathematician with his head on straight	Nature's Numbers is a valuable resource and, I think, a new doorway of scientific philosophy. (I think some reviewers didn't like this because they expected more, but as I said, its a doorway to a field, and by no means a complete study in itself) From the very beginning, it is promised to the reader that a new pair of glasses, a mathematicians, will be provided to look at your life in the universe a bit differently.  Ian Stewart attempts to grasp the mathematical hypostasis of the natural macrocosm.  Objectively, simplicity still likely underlies all external phenomena, however a outward branching tree of complexity translates this core into our manifested world, appearing fairly simple again as the laws which govern the cosmos.  However, in Stewart's universe, mere laws and equations do not suffice.  He strives for a new field of mathematics that is intertwined with natural science.  It is obvious, as he shows from the science of flowers, dripping water, etc., that math determines the observed phenomena of science.  Even in apparently haphazard systems, the source remains as deterministic principles by nonlinear dynamics.  (This is what you should know as chaos theory)  And the shibboleth of &quot;the butterfly effect&quot; is an epitome of the need to comprehend the governing mathematics of systems.  Take biological adaption and evolution for example.  Some biologists believe that DNA and genetics is the sole shaper of organisms.  This does not appear to be fully adequate alone, because then we would in turn need to explain why biology followed symmetries and patterns.  But as he notes on pp. 137 &quot;Maybe evolution started with the mathematical patterns that occurred naturally, and fine-tuned them by natural selection.&quot;  By opening our horizons of our attempts to comprehend the universe fully in our quest for absolute knowledge of nature's numbers, the final sentence in Stewarts work admirably states the scientist's philosophy with the same type of mere simplicity that Mother Nature holds at her core, &quot;We may never get there.  But it will be fun trying.&quot;  Gotta love that.	2001-07-21
US	47717519	R3CLINDHRFE1Q	0345346297	699186436	The Dragons of Eden: Speculations on the Evolution of Human Intelligence	Books	4	21	23	N	N	includes endnote coverage of the cannabis smoker's mind...	Now I definitely need to read more of Carl Sagan's books.  This one is not very recent (he speaks of a new video game called &quot;Pong&quot;), but full of thought-provoking and interesting concepts concerning intelligence and evolution.  I was pleasantly surprised to see that he had a chapter pertaining to dreamstates.  (&quot;Tales of Dim Eden&quot;)  Also pertaining to Eden, he illustrates how the Genesis story of Man and his Fall can in some senses really be accurate, not (pseudo)scientifically (as in Creationism...obviously it is a book on evolution and phylogeny) but as a metaphor for several characteristics of the human races emerging onto the present scene of a civilisation stemmed from the frontal lobes.  Which in the big picture has been very recent, to show this he condenses the life of the cosmos to a scale Cosmic Calendar of 365 days.  Us Earthlings almost miss the New Year's party.  Neurologically, the areas of the brain are explored and their respective functions as well as connections to mammallian and reptilian ancestors. (A triune model is used) Finally, he briefly touches on our search for extraterrestrial intelligence and, very appropriately to this setting, exposes the West's lack of appreciation for scientific knowledge the world which we inhabit and our irrational attraction to superstition and bogus claims of occult psuedo-science... something I just had to include somewhere in here.	2001-07-20
US	47717519	RUNEJJ5IUCIMJ	0500281009	575332005	The Prehistory of the Mind: The Cognitive Origins of Art, Religion and Science	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Easy to comprehend, very interesting, 70 diagrams-4.5 stars!	From whence did art, religion, and science manifest? A new evolutionary proposal is constructed for the cognitive origins of such practices in Modern Humans, from the Early Humans (since the 6 million old common ancestor shared with chimpanzees) who knew no such trades.  Using the works of others he sets forth metaphors for the human mind.  Some may call it a sponge or computer, but neither are very accurate.  Then it was called a Swiss-Army knife, with each blade or tool representing a specialized domain of human intelligence.  Steven Mithen later shows that this is representative of only earlier minds, up to Neanderthals, in which each domain of specialization was isolated from all others. Natural selection's pyschological trajectory plasmatured three phases of the mind.  As an archaeologist, Mithen now models the brain surprisingly as a medieval cathedral, from his profession's experience.  Phase 1 is a mind with a nave of general intelligence.  Phase 2 is a mind with a nave of general intellience and multiple 'chapels' of specialized intelligences.  Phase 3 is a Phase 2 mind with a certain holistic fluidity of interaction between the general intelligence and each specialized intelligence, as well as between all specialized intelligences.  The path of this evolutionary branch is illustrated by his archaeological knowledge.  Toolmaking is studied--from the ant retrieving twigs of chimps to the word processing programs of homo sapiens sapiens that I typed this book review on. The process undertaken by natural selection to mold our brains is akin to that of a computer programmer who molds software programs. At one point there was a cultural explosion and acceleration of human activity.  Rather than regarding this as divine intervention, the author has pinpointed the source neurologically in early man.  Art, religion, and science are epiphenomenons of cognitive fluidity.  By coalescing all specialized domains of human intelligence (into a Phase 3 mind), the overlapscreated new domains of advancement.  These are only a few of the things however included as a by-product of fluid cognition.  (The epilogue spends more paper explaining agriculture than did the main work on religion, art, or science! [also, not all overlap was good, racism is also traced to a converge of two pyschological domains]) Summed up--The Prehistory of the Mind is a delightful read recommended on human phylogeny.	2001-07-11
US	47717519	R2RN0M7YMNVE0T	0671696017	473041921	Parallel Universes: The Search for Other Worlds	Books	4	6	15	N	N	... mtaphysial can of wrms	I've heard it through the grapevine that currently many scientists have abandoned the idea of parallel worlds, or that this is regarded as some neo-scientific sophistry.  But since this broad vision is still open to interpretations, I saw it as no reason to abhor reading this work.  What I found inside is extremely interesting. This book explains a multitude of intertwining abstractions from conceptual infinity to quantum computers.  The versimilitude of the parallel universe model erases objective free will and at the same time renders the Anthropic Principle a subjective illusion of the present kosmos.  Needless to say by now, Fred tends to get very philosophical.  The parallel universe, or &quot;many worlds&quot;, interpretation of quantum mechanics is juxtaposed against the construing of conventional science.  Our cherished notions of time are transmogrified.  The superspace of parallel universes is a realm where the future not only exists, but affects the now as much as the past does.  Accordingly Fred describes phenomena as necessarily self-consistent but not causal as in former Netwonian frameworks.  The structure of superspace transcends such machine-like cosmologies.<br />I actually think the theory proposed could act as complementary meshed with Michael Talbot's concept of a Holographic Universe, both places of infinite, non-local, ghostlike outcomes where the frequencies become synonymous with the infinite number of split macrocosms and the superposition of those into our present home in space time is our 'hologram.'<br />But to take the acausal, self-consistent trajectory of the tachynauts, we first need a phone booth and eccentric helper from the future kosmos named Rufus.  Oh, I guess maybe that was just a good 80s flick... ;)	2001-07-04
US	47717519	R2TKLM9KWL45NK	0385262124	879906436	The Dark Side of the Universe: A Scientist Explores the Mysteries of the Cosmos	Books	4	3	3	N	N	1st book I've read to deal with how dark matter would taste	James Trefil has conjured up an excellent exordium to current cosmology and its puzzles in &quot;The Dark Side of the Universe.&quot;  Due to its simple and easy to understand nature, it is an excellent starting point for the lay cosmologist.  For such a person, the Massive Neutrino Caper chapter is the only segment that is a bit of heavier science... in my own opinion at least.   Each chapter starts out with a personal attention grabber to help you grasp on to the concept that he is about to connect to from the previous chapter.  The book is predominantly about the paradox of galaxies (clusters and voids), dark matter and it candidates, and the Big Bang cosmogony, and also the perspective of our (humanity's) study of the cosmos from the primitive ancients to the scientific present age.  He makes our eldritch and mysterious kosmos easier to understand in plain English better than many authors whom I have encountered.  This here is a bona fide stepping stone into astronomy and cosmology!	2001-06-13
US	47717519	R32X84GI1SQLF7	0385417993	758413096	Living Without a Goal	Books	4	29	30	N	N	nietzsche's goalessness as such..	When I saw this book on the shelf of my local library, I knew that it was something I had been looking for.  It has always struck me how, pyschologically, humans are always thinking towards some greater end in their future, and in the mean while miss being alive in the present moment of endless creative possibilities.  James Ogilvy logically defines the life of Goalessness, and clearly specifies the philosophies that it is NOT and what it is confused with.  It is a life of artfulness and without extremes, from the perspective of abandonment of politics and religion. Living without a Goal is like creating a work of art in the sense that artistic creativity serves no goal outside itself.  Like the artist in his studio, the person in a life must create from the inside out rather than relying on some great blueprint in the sky to justify her actions here on earth.  Better to take artistic creation as a metaphor: to see in the challenge of artistic creativity a model or a likeness for the challenge of living life without a Goal.  It is not selfishness, it's not hedonism, but it is also not a life without desires (detachment, as in Buddhism) and yes it WILL be a patchwork of smaller goals lest you find this idea impossible or absurd.  The difference is that they are not hinged on to any other greater goal besides themselves.  There is a necessary balance between freedom and discipline. I highly enjoyed his philosophical and clear, honest style of composition. Recommended!	2001-06-08
US	47717519	RK6G2O8XSY7CU	0691018332	163885165	The Archetypes and The Collective Unconscious (Collected Works of C.G. Jung Vol.9 Part 1)	Books	5	43	46	N	N	From Rebirth to Fear of the Dark... CG JUNG explains all !!!	This intriguing study of the archetypes of our collective human unconscious is FASCINATING.  Here we confront the fountainheads of the hypostasis of dreams and the active genesis of fecund mythology.  The collective unconscious differs from the personal in that it is not constituted of repressed or forgotten complexes but of inherited archetypes that were never a part of your conscious life.  Anyone who  plans to study mythology should be required to read this book... ignorance of it would prevent your comprehension of the primitive man and tribes' living mythology and religion. (Also would be an essential tool in exploring dreamwork or human nature) The archetypes are felt in our most personal life and encountered in dreams.  Unconsciously, unprojected, it turns out that our own minds have a &quot;sea of possibilities&quot;, and that they assume definite forms only in projection.  The archetypes are vessels that we can never empty or fill, having only potential existence, taking shape they become no longer what they were.  They need be interpreted anew throughout the ages.  They are the imperishable elements of the unconscious, but they change their shape continually, being the &quot;treasure in the realm of the shadowy thoughts&quot; which Kant spoke of, and among the highest values of the human pysche.  They are the simple solution of how archaic myths, far from being merely historical remnants or allegories of physical processes, still grasp us with profound effect in all levels of society and eras.  Awareness is needed of these jewels to understand the unconscious' interconnectedness with our conscious life and the fact that the human pysche is not born tabula rasa.  This is a classic work, that some may not adhere to, but far from being a philosophy, and me far from being a pyschologist, I would not take the bold step here to criticize Jung's work.  Jungian or not, I give it my stamp and seal of approval guaranteeing your utmost interest.	2001-05-22
US	47717519	R359FK7F7MBJBI	0830718982	537676690	So What's the Difference?: A Look at 20 Worldviews, Faiths and Religions and How They Compare to Christianity	Books	1	15	69	N	N	Augment your bigotry for just the price of one little book!!	A decent diuturnity ago, I visited a Christian booksale.  {And, oh, I was a Christian at the time}  A woman pointed out this book and told me how so very good of a read it was.  Thus I have not freshly read it, but since it has come back into my possession I skimmed each chapter to review what it taught.  With now unbiased eyes I can see that it is a handbook of bigotry and not of world religions.  Though I must stop a moment and expose a certain fact so I do not appear to be defaming Fritz Ridenour.  I realize that the moniker, &quot;So What's the Difference?&quot; does not refer to the difference between religions, but rather the difference betwixt Orthodox (fundamentalist) Christianity and all other foreign faiths.  If it WERE to refer to the former, I would be disgusted beyond all recognition at the misinformation.... However, I still do not recommend this work.  Regardless if you just want to know the difference between all faiths or all faiths and the Christain faith, why would you ask a fundamentalist, i.e. EXTREMELY BIASED, theologian about Islam or Buddhism?  Would you ask an electrician about medicine or a dentist about carpentry?  In fact, the author carried out the action of what a truth-seeker should do, that is, inquiring into the other faiths themselves.  Yet he took the fruits of his work and juxtaposed them against modern Christian theology, as opposed to the original teachings of Christ and scripture, and exposed all disagreements.  It is inevitable in ANY faith that many mindsets and philosophies will diverge from the pristine source, so my next question would be why compare all religious orthodoxies rather than comparing the sources?  [E.G. Bible, Qur'an]  If you took this path you would avoid making the mistakes of accusing brethren of disputes that are non existant.  You would realize that Christ never promulgated a triumvirate deity, nor did Muhammad declare that Judas took Jesus' place on the morbid cross of Golgotha, nor that anyone did, forthe Qur'an never states that Jesus was not crucified, but in actuality that only the Jews certainly did not crucify him.  (In fact surahs refer to the day of Isa's (jesus') death)  To see his satirical bigotedness, you need only read the captions following each chapter. &quot;Judaism...Foundation of Christianity but Still Looking for Christ&quot;--&quot;Islam...How Muhammad Used the Bible&quot;--&quot;Christian Science--Denies Reality But cannot escape it.&quot;  We must ask ourselves at this point all ready, does it appear at all that we are dealing here with a book that may be deemed objective??  Does a book that points out differences in creed do anything to produce religious tolerance?  Ralph Waldo Emerson certainly had his head on straight when he declared that, &quot;In the matter of religion, people eagerly fasten their eyes on the difference between their own creed and yours; whilst the charm of the study is in finding the agreements and identities in all the religions of humanity.&quot;  But you are a Christian you say and you only believe in your sect or interpretation of Christianity?  Why don't you look at your book?  Christians were not to divide into opposing groups.  &quot; Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now this I say, that every one of you saith, I am of Paul; and I of Apollos; and I of Cephas; and I of Christ. Is Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye baptized in the name of Paul?&quot; 1 Corinthians 1:10-13  Senseless arguments should be avoided. &quot;Have nothing to do with stupid, senseless controversies; you know that they breed quarrels.&quot; 2 Timothy 2:23 RSV.  And how about evidence that God has also created non-Christian religions, &quot; And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold . . .&quot;  So why was a book written on comparative religion set up like this??  <br />i have no idea &amp; i would not recommend this book to anyone on planet earth	2001-05-21
US	47717519	RWCN8QTCWRKKW	0876043481	892756061	A Broader Vision: Perspectives on the Buddha and the Christ	Books	3	8	18	N	N	The Buddha and the Christ had a much --broader vision--!	This book sustains a promising essence concealed in a Christian straight-jacket.  Its promise kept my attention through the whole work, but its final disappointment only served to remind me why I should not read modern Christian theology.<br />In that he is &quot;nice&quot; to Buddhism and the Buddha, I commend Richard Henry Drummond, Ph.D.  That is, he doesn't take the wide spread Protestant stance that all other religions are worthless or demon-led.  In fact, I can quote from pp.217 that &quot;in spite of the distortions of Buddhist monasticism and the failures of popular religion, much if not most of that which has been noble and good in Asian history may be attributed to the influence of the Buddha.&quot; In the preface he truthfully forewarns us that,&quot;no one, in academic context or not, operates from a life posture that can be called completely impartial or objective.&quot;  His Christianity though is a far stance from anything near a fair objectivism.  He knows that there is not the mathematical accuracy in regards to Christology that people are impressed with erroneously from John Dominic Crossan, but he begins with the view that we can derive a true outline of Christ's life.  (I'm not suggesting that this should be denied, only that biases like this are a framework for his Christian views.)  When comparing the lives and workings of the two thaumaturges, I could not believe some of the things that I read.  &quot;there is no reason of significance--historical, literary, or scientific-philosophical--to doubt that Jesus did perform mighty works, which we may call miracles, largely as reported in the New Testament accounts.&quot;  (LAUGH...  I suppose there aren't whole books written on that subject alone, namely against such a notion)  What really restrains this book from its potential is the cherished 'uniqueness of Jesus.'  This begins to play an active role in his analysis of Christ's miraculous resurrection which he in the end uses as a means to elevateChrist over Buddha.  pp.150 says that, &quot;I should like to explore the possibility that we have in the case of Jesus of Nazareth what we do not percieve in either Gautama, Zarathustra, or Muhammad; that is, a consciously chosen vicarious-redemptive role.&quot;  He tries to preserve the seat of his uniqueness where he has the perfect chance to discuss the fascinating miraculous similarities extant betwixt Gautama and Yeshua.  I thought without a doubt that he would deal with the alleged water-walking and storm-calming attributed to the Buddha and then the Christ.  Not one mention!!!  With our refusal to give up Christ's uniqueness, this implies mythical borrowing from the Axial Period.  And if he actually did represent a &quot;broader vision&quot; this would be given spiritual attention and explanation.     In the philosophies of the Christ and the Buddha, there is juxtaposition of spiritual teachings.  He draws the similarities between the 'Kingdom of God' and 'Nirvana,' described as religiously transcendant but realizable in the world, and maintainable beyond.  But in the end he seems reluctant to ever actually equate them, not to mention in the end still promulgating &quot;the spirit of sacrifice and mystery of the cross&quot; as our method of salvation, not this relationship with the spirit of the primordial tradition.  Accordingly the comparisons are made more so with the Mahayana school than Theravadin, with the concepts of universal salvation.<br />Drummond's work and juxtaposition is very thorough and comprehensive, but as I have aimed to point out either ignorance or preservation of Jesus' uniqueness caused him to exclude some of the most valuable study between the Buddha and the Christ.  I expected that a 'broad vision' comparing two religious leaders would not take the side of one of them, and that is where I was utterly disappointed.  I expected the title to imply a &quot;broader vision&quot; than Christianity, that had room to hold Buddhism in equalimportance, or even a quasi-Baha'i perspective as Buddha and Christ essentially being one in spirit as manifestations in different settings.  But I realized this was not the case on pp.170, &quot;the Christ event is unique; it is also the pivotal, the single most important event of human history.&quot;<br />I am very glad that a Christian author acknowledges the Buddha with high spiritual regard, but one question I would propose to Drummond, &quot;Is he in Hell?&quot;	2001-05-13
US	47717519	R35DISFM4HVG71	0553583182	844455366	The Power of Your Subconscious Mind	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Hey, cheer up ! ;=)	The power of positive thinking is very interesting. Accordingly, &quot;the problem with most people is that they have no invisible means of support.&quot; First he enlightens you as to the nature of the subjective and irrational subconscious mind and the objective and rational conscious. What you consciously believe, think, and reason, is impressed upon the subconscious without argument... it does not reason. (however a suggestion cannot impose something on the subconscious mind against the will of the conscious mind. The conscious mind has the power of rejection.)Thus a continous cycle occurs. The conscious feeds the subconscious with seeds, which etch on to the infinite ocean of intelligence, which in turn will manifest back into the conscious world. If you consciously assume something as true, even though it may be false, your subconscious mind will accept it as true and proceed to bring about results which must necessarly follow, because you consciously assumed it to be true. He indirectly identifies this divine subconscious (also the Lord) with the equivalent of either the Vedic atman or Gnostic divine spark. [pp. 212 &quot;Your subconscious never grows old. It is timeless, ageless, and endless. It is a part of the universal mind of God which was never born, and it will never die.&quot;] The practice of manifesting this cycle of the mind and of divine order he coins as &quot;scientific prayer.&quot; He also uses the subconscious to explain why miraculous phenomena occur in all religions and regions of the world. Thus the infinite intelligence of the divine mind has no preference nor affiliation with external religions. That brings me to another compliment for Dr. Joseph Murphy. He seems to be a Christian, atleast somewhat of one deducted from his recurrent Bible quoting. But with the subject matter of the unconscious mind he brings fresh exegesis to scripture. And as I mentioned his note that the subconscious divinity is not unique to any religion or creed, healso acknowledges the fallacy of biblical traditions with all their superstitions of judgement and hellfire. &quot;The only sin is ignorance of the law, and the only punishment is the automatic reaction of man's misuse of the law&quot; pp. 182. He identifies nothing as inherently evil, e.g. sex or money, and does not believe in the common concept of Theism. By his intuition God = Life. He has realized that this is the only rational concept of any &quot;god.&quot; <br />pp. 66 &quot;The one healing power is called by many names---Nature, Life, God, Creative Intelligence, and Subconscious Power.&quot;	2001-05-09
US	47717519	RM8YRUFN3E3GT	1568361564	960403761	Eccentrics: A Study of Sanity and Strangeness (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Where else would you find a woman with 7,5oo Lawn Gnomes	At last I can begin to understand my weirdness.  Now I know that there is a word to describe my pyschological condition: eccentric.  But the authors go at lengths to point out that this is much different from a mental illness.  In fact, eccentrics are healthier than normal and show less schizophrenic signs.  I would go as far as saying that we are extra sane.  (Though my personal theory of pyschology is that *everyone is 'insane') It's not negative at all, in fact (pp.19) &quot;Human evolution needs human eccentricity.&quot;   Eccentrics, besides being nonconforming, are also commonly scientists or artists--and either or neither are very creative.  The researchers let us know that true eccentrics are never acting.  They are strong individuals with strange inclinations of their own, which they are not afraid to express.  With the study of eccentricity we may finally gain a better understanding of all the revolutionary figures in all walks of history from Jesus Christ to Albert Einstein.  However, &quot;for all practical purposes, as far as modern medicine is concerned eccentricity does not exist.&quot;  Dr. David Weeks and Jamie James have take the first scientific approach to the mutations of social evolution.  {i.e., eccentrics}  Accordingly I give them a full rating of five stars and recommend this book to every human being.	2001-05-08
US	47717519	R3V0A9KCA73CJV	0553061747	959749263	The End Of Science: Facing The Limits Of Knowledge In The Twilight Of The Scientific Age	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Epistemological Eschaton of Empiricism	John Horgan deals here with the concept of a unified answer to everything.  Not just a scientific answer, but &quot;The Answer.&quot;  The Holy Grail of every thinker, the meaning of it all, understanding existence it self.  Would The Answer bring us satisfaction or disenchantment?  My own guess is, complacency.  I'm sure the ancient Egyptians thought they had it all discovered as well.  While discussing the physics of a unified theory, he breaks it down into an answer to end all fields of science.  Thus the book is composed very &quot;scientifically&quot;, science being described as the systematic art of over-simplification.  It is not one continuum of arbitrary chapter divisions comprising one evolving theme.  Each chapter is a closed book at his view concerning the end of progress, philosophy, physics, cosmology, evolutionary biology, social science, neuroscience, chaoplexity, limitology, and machine science or Scientific Theology.  I look at like this.  So even if we finally trace the entire course of biological evolution to satisfaction, I can't imagine an End to something like pyschology.  Not only that, but look at all the fields of science.  Maybe a century ago we likewise anticipated &quot;The Answer&quot;, but we did not think of the answer satisfying quantum mechanics and general relativity, computer sciences, or chaos and complexity.  Because such ideas were not yet discovered.  Who are we to say that countless new fields will not arise, however close we come to answering the sciences of today?  Here's what to remember.  &quot;The Answer&quot; is not an observed phenomena.  It is a question of versimilitude correlating to observed phenomena.  It is ironic, as opposed to empirical, science.  Such an example is the recently popular Super-String theory.  Things like this are beyond all methods of final verification or falsification, and only come to a matter of  deduction to the only explanation that our finite minds can offer.  If we embrace a theory likeSuper-Strings, or even Talbot's 'Holographic Universe', the &quot;End of Science&quot; no longer refers to any sort of quasi-omniscience (since even by eliminating endless horizons innumerable details are still left to fill in) but rather the end of ourselves using science, in the truest empirical sense, to find factual truths.  And that my friends would be the true significance underlying the title of this book.  Or instead of listening to me you can take the book's words, (pp. 103) &quot;Even if somebody comes up with a really beautiful theory, like superstring theory, there's not any way it can be tested.  So you're not really doing the scientific method, where you make predictions and then check it.  There's not that experimental check going on.  It's more just mathematical consistency.&quot;<br />If the above mentioned ten fields of science do not interest you, then the book becomes very boring at times.  But overall despite a certain lack of underlying substance (which I believe is due to a certain truth that an End of science if humanly possible at all is nowhere in any near future), it is draped with loads of valuable perspectives and food for thought.  In each field a leading scientist(s) is interviewed about the End of their fields.  At worst for merely all the scientific philosophies this book has value.  <br />(pp. 237) Evolution could have created other brains representing other solutions.<br />(pp. 210) When one understands everything, one has gone crazy.	2001-05-08
US	47717519	RTJ60D4KHW0AX	1573220183	87885862	Living Buddha, Living Christ	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Reflections of Inner Peace and of Beauty	&quot;Living Buddha, Living Christ&quot; is a very simple insight into our lives.  Don't expect complex discussions on theology or doctrine, because you won't find it in this work.  The reading is very simple, but valuable to those needing improvement in their everyday lives.  Most importantly, it breeds religious tolerance.  It urges us to participate in interfaith dialogue, transcend dogma, and live in the teachings and life of the Buddha and Christ.  Reading this book did not inspire me to go become a Buddhist or a Christian, but rather just to become a better person everyday.  I extol Thich Nhat Hanh  on what he has had to say here.  <br />A personal note of my own:  Chapter 3 is called 'the First Supper.'  He tells us that, &quot;mindful eating is an important practice... we eat our meals in silence to make it easier to give our full attention to the food and to the other members of the community.&quot;  I encourage you to read his work mindfully.  I read it in solitude with ambient music as my background.  There is no material too complex for any readers. Thich Nhat Hanh gives us something simple but wholesome to offer.<br />(pp. 58)&quot;To breathe and know you are alive is wonderful.&quot;	2001-05-08
US	47717519	RYVOTQJVRRKFF	1862042217	966587493	The Hiram Key: Pharaohs, Freemasons and the Discovery of the Secret Scrolls of Jesus	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Jesus: Militaristic Midget &amp; Masonic Mystagogue	You may laugh at this reviews title, but Christopher Knight and Robert Lomas sure don't.  I'll admit, the second time around reading this book I appreciated it more, and they do have some valuable information.  Its just that their technique and research is sloppy and at times dubious.  But I guess they deserve credit for covering all of history since the agricultural revolution.  Thus the biblical accounts are tranmogrified.  They start as far back as Sumeria, the matrix out of which civilization was spawned and study antediluvian pantheons.  In their Egyptological claims, if true, well then they have certainly made a breakthrough.  They have identified Seqenenre Tao as the Masonic Hiram Abif, &quot;the king who was lost&quot;.  The king who had the original Horus-making rituals (emulation of the Osiris myth..), which was the precursor of the so-called &quot;pointless&quot; rituals of Freemasonry.  Using a synchronistic thread of the &quot;Morning Star&quot; of divine knowledge they have charted the evolution from Pharaoah to Essene (Nasorean)  to Christian and Templar, and finally ossified as Masons.  When they get to the life of Yehoshua ben Joseph and the Qumran Essenes, it gets hard to take seriously at times.  Not only is some of it silly, but --- wait a sec.  Let's see some silliness.  [pp.229 ... {Jesus' network of spies....} ]  [pp. 230 {a wanted poster was issued for Jesus, giving a visual description of the man}]  Apparently they are writing an action movie.  Anyways, in earlier reference to their techniques of formulating theses, they will propose a speculation, and later call it fact.  This gets annoying, since they are just trying to patch up their credibility.  They claim on pp. 54 that it is beyond doubt that the Qumranites were Essenes.  While generally accepted, many experts belligerently deny this.  Many other claims would not stand up to modern New Testament scholarship either.  In fact, they would be shot out of the air in an instant.  With all this I don't mean to say that their theory is bogus.  There are many a nexus that could not be denied, and they have made some key insights, but along with such puzzle pieces have left behind a trail of mistakes.  After this, go read the sequel... it's more interesting.   i.e. The Second Messiah	2001-04-22
US	47717519	RRONAX38CRCVQ	0451627113	205405938	The Teachings of the Compassionate Buddha (Mentor)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	~&quot;What the world thinks of as life is really death&quot;~	This is a comprehensive primer on Buddhist thought.  Simple, but informative.  Burtt begins with an excellent synopsis on the nature of religion and religious thought in general.  It covers the two main branches of Buddhism- Hinayana (or Theravada) and Mahayana.  It seems to be that the Theravadins are the followers of more conventional Buddhism with an orthodox canon, whereas the Mahaynas are more universal in their ideas and use later basic writings.Using the Tathagata's words, other things are argued e.g. taking on the life of a monk.  The parables are very helfpful, and the one sticking to me most is the one about the acceptance of death.  (mustard seed)  There is less coverage pertaining to the Theravada school.  These ideas of the Mahayanans I find more attracted to, except in some work from the later centuries where they start to argue for things like subjective idealism.  The Mahayana religious ideal I do advocate however  [pp. 124] 'The central idea in Buddhist teaching is the gospel of universal salvation based on the idea of the fundamental oneness of all beings.&quot;	2001-04-14
US	47717519	R21VXA7QT11PS3	0553278320	588316511	If You Meet the Buddha on the Road, Kill Him! The Pilgrimage of Psychotherapy Patients	Books	4	46	57	N	N	existential living	Sheldon B. Kopp narrates his existential voyage through the human experience.    It is definitely not quite nihilistic, but similar.  Killing the Buddha on the road means that no meaning that comes from outside ourselves is real.  We need only recognize that we already have our own Buddhahood.  The secret is that there is none, and no solution, and it comes down to just being what you are.   His philosophy from his pyschological context has some of the right ideas, but he spreads some of the wrong messages.  I enjoyed the book however.  He uses the telling of tales from our ancestors, metaphors for our struggle to fit into existence.  I speculate that this is to emphasize our story-telling nature as animals.  With his version of wisdom, there is no guru to teach us and we are no one's disciple.  In this he is the messenger of bad news and expects to disappoint those who search in life as if there was some underlying meaning in the world.  He's sure that its in vain, and ultimately so are our lives.  If you are someone disturbed by this, then reading his book will transcend those feelings.  If you aren't by now... I recommend it ;)	2001-04-02
US	47717519	RVGCTWFBTYBR8	0060675187	946877738	Rescuing the Bible from Fundamentalism: A Bishop Rethinks the Meaning of Scripture	Books	5	20	29	N	N	'for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life'-2 Cor. 3:6	&quot;Can Jesus be for us the way, the truth, and the life without religious delusion or hysterical religious claims?&quot;  John Shelby Spong asks us on page 143... After I read his first chapter I admired and extolled his goal in this work.  I held my breath though to see how extreme he would be, since I just read Uta Ranke-Heinemann's &quot;Putting Away Childish Things&quot; who destroyed the Bible.  But Spong, I advocate so much more because he still calls Jesus Lord and Christ, he loves the Bible, it is the book of his life, and he in no way wants to eliminate it; just fundamentalism.   As do I. ( In &quot;Putting Away Childish Things&quot; she acted as if there was still something left for us -- love -- after destroying the Bible... that sounds nice and fine  but you can certainly be loving without being religious.)  First he shows us a portrait of God through fundamentalism.  Try reading the Old Testament word for word.  Taken literally, anyone is delusional for worshiping THAT in this day in age.  Not only does he do that, but exposes the cosmological implications that even a &quot;Bible believer&quot; could not accept if you take the Bible word-for-word literally.  (If Jesus ascended physically at the speed of light, he's still flying now !!)  From the historical perspective of the OT, Spong teaches the laymen about the 'Documentary Hypothesis', as well. Then into the New Covenant, he gives us his own chapter for each one of the gospels.  Though he cant believe the teachings of John's gospel were authentic to Jesus, he thinks that it most closely resembles the real purpose of Jesus and God's love.  And I love the message of this book.  &quot;Once we lay aside a commitment to the literal truth of the literal words of a biblical text, we discover that there is a way through these words to enter the timeless dimension of eternal love, graceful acceptance, and inclusive community.&quot;  (pp127)	2001-03-17
US	47717519	R8B52DPO6945E	0300079834	11461008	Meeting God: Elements of Hindu Devotion	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A truly beautiful book.... I wish I could give it more stars	Its books like this which are truly inspirational. Open it up and you will open up to India and the complex spiritual diversity of Hinduism. The process of 'meeting God' pervades all of life here. Everyone has their own unique and individual 'puja' for 'dharsa' This is a look at a whole culture, and not just a religion. The images are spectacular. These ancient rites flourish in the face of any modernization. Probably the best introduction to Hinduism out there.	2001-03-06
US	47717519	RDRUIFJDBVKD0	0738200336	133253374	Before The Beginning: Our Universe And Others (Helix Books)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Hi there, universe	Martin J. Rees presents us with a biography of our home, the cosmos.  He shows us the coincidence that has happened for the complexity of our life to evolove on this planet.  He seems also doubtful that it has happened anywhere else, but that this might be explained naturally by the multiverse, (chances are greater with more universes evolving)  rather than the Anthropic Principle.  Well, he thinks that we should properly term it &quot;Anthropic Reasoning.&quot;  And this is a theory he seems a bit regretful of.  (doesn't think interface with philosophers and theologians is, in principle, and different from what it was in Newton's day) &quot;It would be a pity if theoretical physicists took anthropic ideas too seriously, as it might diminish their motivation for seeking unified theories.&quot;  And he does talk a good deal about these unified theories, the relationship with quantum effects and general relativity, and even briefly introduces the reader to super-strings.  Also educates us on the niche of other empyreal phenomena like dark matter and black holes, and how every one of the things I'm mentioning relates one to another.  He discusses the Big Bang, why we are sure of its validity, and its other implications, which includes the future, our universe's Eschaton.   This book is a decent look at the state of Cosmological studies and some of the methodologies of observing this grand and bizarre place that emerged almost  ex nihilo.	2001-03-06
US	47717519	R13VRZ8G5VXBCZ	1851680942	742255050	Jesus in the Qur'an	Books	5	23	31	N	N	Correcting perpetuated misconstruings	This book is alot more valuable than I had first expected!  He juxtaposes exegesis of the Qur'an and the Christian Injil, not to mention Christian apocryphal works.  He reviews all aspects of 'Isa, such as his titles and their implications, the virgin birth (whether or not a Muslim and a Christian could deny it on scriptural grounds), and also rationalization of miracles.  Theres no intention to argue his personal opinions however, he presents the insights of many Muslim and Christian scholars.  Read his work before you assume that Islam denies the reality of the Crucifixion.  He exposes this tradition and many others that are alien to the original writings, another one being that Christ was 'no more than  a prophet.'  The big doctrine he also inevitably discusses is the Christian Trinity and Islamic Oneness of God.  However anyone who can study Christianity unbiasedly would already see that the &quot;trinity&quot;, atleast as understood by believers today, was a later Church invention.  But he leaves with the message of Muslims and Christians reading each other's holy books and comprehending one another.  Jesus in the Qur'an is a step closer to reconciling them.  The book is similar to the way in which alleged biblical contradictions are reconciled, though its done with two separate holy books.  A process that is not very essential to the religion of most people, though personally to me a very necessary one.	2001-03-04
US	47717519	R8LVB0FICFWWO	006066861X	787251755	Putting Away Childish Things	Books	4	25	28	N	N	Check it out for yourself!	If the last two pages of this book were eliminated, it could be appropriately titled, &quot;Debunking Christianity.&quot; Nonetheless, regardless of whether or not Uta Ranke-Heinemann is too extreme, I think her work has something very valuable to offer. It starts out with a few chapters just on Jesus' early years. The two gospel's birth narratives are their own worst enemies. The genealogies are a mess. In hindsight we find ignorant gospel writers. Later, in Christ's ministry, the prophet in a Hellenistic world was not too original when it came to being a thaumaturge. BUT, the theme of this book is giving up miraculous dogma. The miracles are of no relevence to a faith in the word of Jesus and God's love. His healing of the sick has no point unless we are too able to be healed by Him. Any honest intellectual could plainly see that Jesus was not originally made out to be a deity or &quot;second person of the trinity.&quot; But wow, she takes it alot further than this in dropping the position of Christ as the Jewish Messiah and denying that he had to die for the sins of mankind. This seems unorthodox to most, but I do not think she is completely mistaken. (so go re-read Hosea 6:6 !) Other features to mention is the bogus personage of Judas Iscariot, who is really the personification of the Greeks' anti-Semitism. And also she takes us through a history of perdition ( Hell, Hades, Sheol, Gehenna, etc) taking it away from the ministry of Christ. Hellfire she believes, as do I, turns the gospel on its head and is at worst self defeating to the point of it all. Since her book is a huge stretch from orthodoxy and a transmogrification from the mass of Christian theology, she REALLY should have put more time into discussing her beliefs about the true meaning of Christ and why she believes certain sayings are authentic to Jesus while others are interpolations, besides her few neglible mentions in the book's body and a 2-page afterword. But verily, this is something that everyChristian should consider to be a follower of Jesus' teaching and not a slave of church dogma. I hope that this book serves as a tool to erase fundamentalist hermeneutics and blind faith in bogus claims and to mollify others in a spiritual journey closer to bona fide religion and further away from wretched and morbid theology focused on the cross of human sacrifice.	2001-03-04
US	47717519	R2N8TJWEQU05YH	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	5	4	4	N	N	perhaps a new Scientific Revolution ??	This book will really get you contemplating !!!  The Holographic Universe is a new &quot;Theory of Everything.&quot;  Most models of the natural macrocosm need to reject paranormalism.  (hence the use of the word NATURAL)  This model has room to let in just about any phenomenon.  A bit like, &quot;You name it, and the holomovement explains it.&quot;  There's even some room for synchronicity =)  It will be opposed by the more conservative scientists but the model is actually alot more sufficient and satisfactory than their own Cosmologies.  I think this book is going to be met with loads of skepticism by the higher authorities. But judging by Talbot's writing, he doesn't seem too affrighted by this matter.  Perhaps they won't be opposing holographic hypothesises in general, however a physics book about NDE's, UFO's, Stigmata and Mysticism.. to his own personal werewolf transformations and trickster poltergeists.  Things like this shall certainly feed chuckles to a skeptic's belly, but I really hope that before they dismiss them they realize the implications of the Holographic Universe Theory.  That in it, a  reality comprised less of solid objects traveling in space &amp; time, and more of ghostly holograms of energy sustained by processes that are at least partially connected to human consciousness, miracles ARE possible, even &quot;natural&quot; (and I suppose therefore not actually 'miracles' in the religious sense) The broad purport is that our brains mathematically construct objective reality by interpreting frequencies that are ultimately projections from another dimension, a deeper order of existence that is beyond both space and time:  The brain is a hologram enfolded in a holographic universe. I found the latter portion of the book pertaining to dreams and OBE's as fascinating, and how remarkably these things were described in comparison between the traditions of the ancients in their own writings and philosophy.  I really must recommend this work to just about anyone for a brand new alternative perspective on the nature of &quot;REALITY&quot;   !!!!	2001-02-25
US	47717519	RRB6XXZOMWF8U	0520215923	362214162	The Messiah before Jesus: The Suffering Servant of the Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	4	21	24	N	N	An odd bit of intrigue	The Messiah Before Jesus is a new anomaly in Dead Sea Scrolls and New Testament studies.  Israel Knohl is one of the many authors to propose an uncommon unheard of idea.  The book is primarily about certain Qumran documents, the Thanksgiving Hymns, namely, the 'Self-Glorification Hymn.' His work is somewhat speculative, and rests on a number of historical assumptions.  I'm not saying that this automatically makes it incredible, since most of history IS reconstruction.  But for example, this Scroll theory heavily lies on the Sectarian Hypothesis regarding the Essenes inhabiting Khirbet Qumran. What I found interesting is his new historical insight on the book of Revelation (St. John's Apocalypse) and its historical basis in Roman history and connection to Qumran.  Knohl's thesis is another which robs Jesus Christ of his orthodox &quot;uniqueness.&quot;  It views him as the successor to Menahem (the Essene's messiah) in a chain of messiahs that would continue even after Christ.  So essentially, he disagrees with the historians and at the same time the Christians. He does this by asserting that Jesus DID in fact regard himself as the Son of God and the Suffering Messiah.  (which Christians also would do, but for theological agreement with Him)  Historians regard things like the divine conception and self predictions of suffering and death as post-historical Christ interpolations of the earliest Christians.  They assent this because they have come to believe that such concepts were alien to the first century Judaism that expected a military Messiah-conqueror.  But this book sets out to establish a precursor to Jesus identified as Isaiah 53's 'Suffering Servant.'  I must admit I have a feeling that I need to recommend this book to all of you because it contains some profoundly interesting historical data that you might not find anywhere else.  Such as the Paraclete of John's Gospel.  Find out for yourself!! Israel Knohl gave me satisfaction.   The work is condensed to about 100 pages with a plethora of footnotes that take up a good portion of the book's thickness, but none the less could quite possibly provide key information as to understanding Christ's messianic position!	2001-02-25
US	47717519	R3QTTEO8QMVXEF	1851682090	433184783	Baha'i Faith: A Short Introduction (Oneworld Short Guides)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Our Modern Remedy	The Baha'i Faith A Short Introduction is a helpful guide to begin understanding the religion of God, but not the best introductory book out there.  The focus is on the teachings, with only a bit about the history.  Not only that, but certain teachings are emphasized and others are given less attention or comprehension.  For example, I thought Momen did a good job on the nature of God as described by all the previous Divine Revelations, but should have gone into more depth on uniting the other concepts of the world religions, and how to understand them as a Baha'i.  But overall he still did pretty all right.   I would in now way shape or form discourage you to read this book, unless you were to only read one book on the Faith, and that you should read others.  Even I myself have not read many, but from what I have seen Esslemont's work is written very well, enough to be the one I recommend.  But I reckon Moojan Momen still atleast gets one thumbs up!!! ;&gt;)	2001-02-25
US	47717519	R5O87J5XI2B99	157322569X	229703352	Hidden scrolls: christianity, judaism, and teh war for the dead sea scro	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Men of Lies	&quot;The Hidden Scrolls&quot; is a lucid outsider's look into the chaos that is Dead Sea Scrolls scholarship.  Silberman's writing is constructed well with a flowing story of rich style.  He shows us the consensuses that have been officially reached by the top, more &quot;professional&quot;, scholars in the field.  At this same time he reveals their own skullduggery.  No, he doesn't mean the once embraced idea of conspired cover-up, but mainly their own theological evasiveness.  This is due in part to the nature of scroll interpretation, which ends up being a subjective process.  The humanist, Orthodox Jew, and fundamentalist Christian are all going to get a different message from a text surrounding a messianic figure.  The people of the scrolls have so much in common with Christianity that the nexus can by no means be overlooked.  Atleast one would think, but by looking at the differences betwixt the two, scholars manage to brush it aside.  They identify Qumran as an isolated band of mystical monks, who though anticipated the End of Days and Final Judgement, occupied their massive library with events that occured centuries in their own past under Hasmonean rule.  This is orthodoxy.  By reducing them to this,  &quot;The 'Dead Sea Scrolls' became a harmless public fascination.  But their revolutionary passion and outrage against injustice had been, consciously or unknowingly, stripped from them.&quot;  Not only does he expose this inconsistency in the de Vaux orthodoxy, but even demythologizes the stories of their discovery and such.  But in the inner circle of scholars, they only show disdain for alternative theories on the scrolls, and had given birth to sometimes angry, theological debates.  This book is more appreciable to those who are already familiar with the saints and sinners of the Dead Sea Scrolls.  It discusses their interactions and contributions, as well as their respective theories.  While as Silberman thinks in light of evidence and not his scholarlycontemporaries, it seems he at the same time avoids straying to the absurd.  There is no &quot;Jesus the mushroom buried in Qumran cave 7 occupied by Paul the Dinosaur's UFO&quot; theory (OK I get a little carried away mocking the lunatic fringe, but o well..)  He generally sees the voice of Jewish messianism in the scrolls, a movement that included Jesus Christ, and not the accepted tradition.  This is an easy enjoyable book for those in the field of Scrolls research. Thumbs UP!!!	2001-02-22
US	47717519	R3O7Y60J9MKQQX	0735100721	272193209	The Creative Mind: An Introduction to Metaphysics	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Wholesome for the Artist or the Philosopher	This collection of philosophy is a decent (but perhaps somewhat outdated in some mind-matter concepts) introduction to Metaphysics.  In general it is a valuable source and interesting read.  It shows us the eternal change, or flux, of reality.  Constant creativity, or, eternity. If movement isn't everything, it is nothing.  This is a book about Duration.  He sees time as only that which prevents everything from happening at once.    But the broader perspective of this book is noteworthy.  Philosophy needs precision and the genuine search for truth which is held by science.  Without scientific precision, we preoccupy ourselves with false, unanswerable questions.  And he goes over some of these, and by resolving them shows such things as it is absurd to suppose that disorder logically or chronologically precedes order.  He sees science and philosophy as capable of being complementary.&quot;Science and metaphysics will differ in object and method, but will commune in experience.&quot;  It seems that the precision is needed to actually arrive at answers to our questions as opposed to giving birth to even more new questions.  His works are against the widespread solely dialectic  philosophizing which applies its facts to all other areas outside of its investigation.  The difference between metaphysics and science will be, namely, that whereas science relies on analysis metaphysics will use Intuition.  He holds them as definitely two distinct arts, but both of equal value and both capable of reaching the bottom of reality.  He makes a big claim: that he rejects the accepted consensus of the relativity of knowledge and our inability to reach absolutes.  Between the two fields of precise knowledge, he places moral, social, and even organic life. This should be a well appreciated book to the philosopher of any level.  The philosopher neither obeys nor commands, but seeks to be one with nature.	2001-02-18
US	47717519	R2ZV5U60ZFM1QE	0805420525	463201037	In Search of the Mountain of God: The Discovery of the Real Mt. Sinai	Books	3	19	23	N	N	It appears the pope was wrong, the Muslims were right, folks	In the last century, we have witnessed multitudes of books that call into question the traditional history and propose a new radical theory. And I'm specifically speaking of biblical scholarship. The majority of the books I refer to debunk biblical representations of history, but this is one of the few that sets forth a new argument in favor of the Bible's literal, historical, and complete truth. The author is not a professional archaeologist, theologian or scholar, but just a fundamentalist (ex-policeman) with his Bible. (Reminding us that the majority of big historical finds are uncovered by amateurs for a little boost in his credibility) So what has he found? The real Mount Sinai.... Jabal Al Lawz. (Arabia) The common placing of Sinai is in Egypt. Why? He unveils that the only reason is that of tradition, a fourth-century fortune teller gave the Egypt-placing of tradition. Here people gather to the supposed sacred site, among whom is included Pope John Paul II. However, what is the scriptural location?? 'Galations 4:25 Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia.' Well there we go.. not Egypt. He was right! We have been wrong. I once saw a brief television clip on this expedition, where authorities deemed his work as unprofessional. The reasons behind this I do not recall. After examining the information presented in this book, I see its argument as very convincing for someone who believes in miracles of the ancient world, since Jabal Al Lawz fits every criteria for identification with Sinai, where as the traditional marking bears none of its features. ( altars, caves, rocks, fire, etc. ) The Bible alone depicts the site they have found. As opposed to admitting the vindication of the Torah's record, you would either have to think 1) that it was set up to resemble Mt. Sinai by a different group of ancients, or 2) coincidental. I tend to bet that this is why scholars don't like accepting the research done by Robert Cornuke. They already view Yahweh's supernatural liberation as myth, and this is the antithesis of that consesus. Accepting this book as true would account for the silence of archaeology in the Sinai Peninsula regarding the Exodus from Egypt, and give Exodus Apologetics an additional leg to stand on, or more like A leg to stand on. This is the holiest mountaintop in the world we're talkin' here, this book is definitely a interesting, and RELEVANT, topic. Sure, it could have been better, yet I do recommend it. The funniest aspect is that after the original discovery, they next discovered that the locals, our Islamic friends, regarded this as the Mountain of Moses all along!!!!	2001-02-08
US	47717519	R3DDXEW3XQ4ZXS	0345406044	243579536	In the Beginning: A New Interpretation of Genesis	Books	4	68	77	N	N	Genesis with no mention of the Nephilim!? Bah!	&quot;In the Beginning&quot; takes a modern look at the teachings of the book that starts it all, Genesis.  I suspect that the read should be enjoyable to the believers and unbelievers alike.  ( believers, excluding fundamentalists who are offended when anyone suggests anything less than orthodox about Yahweh )  In the earlier portions of Armstrong's work, she hits the nail right on the head about why people misinterpret this book.  (and all of scripture for that matter)  They treat scripture as a &quot;holy encyclopedia&quot; as she put it.  They think that every word in Genesis is literal, and that evolutionary biology is gravely mistaken.  Karen reminds us that, &quot;The true meaning of scripture can never be wholly comprised in a literal reading of the text, since that text points beyond itself to a reality which cannot adequately be expressed in words and concepts. &quot; (pp. 5)  And that, &quot;Our authors are not interested in historical accuracy.&quot; (pp. 7)  We might regard a 'myth' as an untruth, but in the premodern world it was regarded as a psychological form charting the inner world.  Her commentary's main focus is on the nature of religion, and God himself.  She looks at it then and now, and brings up the difference in portrayal as given in the book of Genesis and modern Christian theology.  She purports to show God as arbitrary, big emphasis on this, and unpredictable.  Not only this but that the Genesis authors are inconsistent when writing about God, we can't fully understand the divine.  She compares what &quot;faith&quot; was in that day, how a true religious life was lived, and the emphasis of all the great religions, kindness to others.  You should try this work if you would like to open up to an alternate perspective on the God of the Israelites, and his intervention in human antiquity.	2001-02-05
US	47717519	R378E0VARZHCWT	0684812002	779234097	The SPIRITUAL UNIVERSE: How Quantum Physics Proves the Existence of the Soul	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Aleph... Isness, just is.	If this book is accepted, it could be revolutionary.  A masterpiece--talk about uniting Science and Religion!!!  By the time you read just the first chapter your mouth will water for more as you wonder, &quot;By the time I finish this will I finally have an answer to the eternal burning questions?&quot;  Well, you will have Fred Alan Wolf's answer, to God, the soul, existence, and so on.  He had some difficulty and struggle to write a SCIENTIFIC account of the soul.  Science is supposed to only deal with things that can be sensed and directly observed, isn't it?  So what place does it have on the soul other than maybe denying its existence?  Well, we've never found the soul because we've been asking the wrong questions.  We have the wrong idea about the &quot;ghost in the machine.&quot; We have the wrong conceptions about many things, Soul, Matter, Self, Conciousness,  all different, though related, phenomena.  He gives a tour through all past contemplations on the nature of the soul's physics.  It starts off with a juxtaposition of Thomas Aquinas' and Aristotles' soulish ideas.    Then it goes from Plato, to ancient Egypt, to the Qabala.  (Providing us with a modern quantum physics interpretation of the Eden story)  Fred not only turns to modern science theories, but also Buddhist teachings.  The two fields of knowledge on agree on much more than you would ever think.  Even the Dalai Lama has said that it could be possible for a soul to incarnate a computer!!  Now, I'm not exactly scientifically inclined... and alot of the chapters were deep material for me to comprehend.  I never studied quantum mechanics or anything, but this all depends on your own scientific understandings.  Some of it may be over your head, but maybe not then again I was up late pretty tired while reading it, Hehe.  But he doesn't obfuscate anything, it will nevertheless will be very interesting.  (all kinds of stuff, Zero point energy, the Dirac Sea, antimatter)  Once it delves more into theZen Buddhism which he extols, there is alot of soul philosophy.  Seeing that everyone is in the illusory cycle of suffering, and that we lose contact with our souls through material addictions...to the point where we don't differentiate the self and the soul.  (Which are more like reflections of one another)  Such is the nature of Maya.  He shows us that there is no plurality to consciousness.  There is really only one soul and consciousness, the mind of God, from which we all arise. <br />This book is DEFINITELY worth your time. And if you don't gain anything else, one thing will atleast be the most unique theory you've every heard, in the chapter titled &quot;Resurrection Physics.&quot;1	2001-02-05
US	47717519	RHW78PPQV1OCE	0553346768	967970662	Synchronicity: The Bridge Between Matter and Mind	Books	5	66	93	N	N	One of the best and most Helpful books I have ever read	Synchronicity shatters causality as being capable of applying to the entire macrocosm.  It demands that we progress on from the Newtonian worldview.  Though the explanations for synchronicity might seem just as incomprehensible, with this book synchronicity won't seem as impossible.  We get the bridge between an artistic and mechanistic universe.  Linearity and Nonlinearity, mind and matter, Acausality and causality are to be complimentary, not isolated dualities.  With synchronicity we will variegate, but not transmogrify, the mechanistic Kosmos.   He thoroughly examines two valuable sources of synchronicity work: Carl Jung and Wolfgang Pauli.  Perhaps as Pauli believed, an integration will occur with synchronicity by bringing the objective into pyschology and the subjective into physics.  In our universe, which is more of an organism than a machine, &quot;everything is the cause of everything.&quot;  We cannot observe phenomena without disturbing it, by being an integral participator in phenomena itself.  With the development of the illusions of our distinct selfs and our Newtonian strict mindsets, a synchronicity can be the only moment in which we can see transcendant eternity.  But if we are willing to break down  these walls, we will be submerged in eternal creativity, and stop seeing life as linear in time and causality.  Another thing, at some points in this book, it almost seems as if Peat was directly writing about God.  I don't mean an anthropomorphised jealous demiurge, but rather, as I quote from his own words, &quot;an eternally creative source that lies beyond the orders of time.&quot; pp. 195 Or how about pp. 88 &quot;What if the laws of nature---the ones that really fly---are not simply abstractions of experience but are realization, within the world of mind, of something that is creative, generative, and formative, of something that lies beyond mathematics, language, and thought?&quot; If he realizes this, I cannot say.  But later he does speak of how the ancients described this same thing as the Tao.  So I think he does, but that using a word with such a negative connotation as G-d would be misleading.  But when I hear him say &quot;objective intelligence&quot; it seems like nothing less than being politically correct talking about the Supreme Personality of the Godhead.<br />Or perhaps he was expecting a white beard.	2001-02-02
US	47717519	R2KJB2YE6U0GGJ	006093073X	169801262	Seven Life Lessons of Chaos: Spiritual Wisdom from the Science of Change	Books	4	7	10	N	N	But can it explain synchronicity ??	Here we get a better glimpse at infinity, the living interconnectedness of our universe, and chaos theory.  Entering into this chaos we have creative moments.  The authors take an in depth look at the creative mind.  The problem with our modern western minds is that they are dualistic and mechanistic.  &quot;Lo! Men have become tools of their tools!&quot;  With chaos comes wholeness, and we need not restrict things into dualities and put power above all weaker things.  We need see that systems are complex and simplistic at the same time through chaos, and that every action is connected to everything.  'The Butterfly Effect'  The Earth, let's call her Gaia, is a living ecosystem and organism.  We can look at the cell as its microcosm.  Because of missing information, we never fully understand things, and therefore should not mechanise them to our satisfaction.  We shouldn' t view everything as linear.  This includes time.  Those moments where time stands still---they explore the realms of the possibility of fractal time planes, as opposed to a mere irreversable arrow.  They want the mystery of contemplating the great unknown restored in our minds.  This book will definitely supply you with a new mind expanding outlook and perspective on the world in which you live.	2001-01-30
US	47717519	R181YODJHC38VN	1862042489	670347354	The Second Messiah: Templars, the Turin Shroud and the Great Secret of Freemasonry	Books	5	39	47	N	N	Tarot, Arthur, Shroud, Scrolls, what DIDN'T they  have??????	Christopher Knight and Robert Lomas present a clear, well-documented model of religious and Masonic history.  I read this a long time ago... Then I read the Hiram Key...  Then the Templar Revelation.... and then the Head of God.... and tonight I read this again.  (The Second Messiah, and oh, for the un informed these books are a few of the many focusing on the Templars Jerusalem treasure and great heresy)  I find this book more believable than its prequel (Hiram Key), though much of its work is based on the conclusions of that piece.  And this is MUCH MUCH MUCH more credible than &quot;The Head of God.&quot;  It has the same idea of the royal blood line however, but doesn't take as far back as Akhenaten/Moses.  First the authors set out to show that Paul's theology was at direct odds with the Jerusalem church, which was completely Jewish, not viewing Christ as anyone supernatural.  But Paul's religion conquered it, which further expounds their idea that there were many secrets to Jame's church. If you haven't read the Hiram Key, this is their formula [Nasorean=Essene=Christian]  They also get into the feature of all the books I mentioned-Rosslyn Chapel.  Their finds in the ancient decorations of this temple prove that Freemasonry is centuries older than the English Lodge says.  In fact, their dogma is rather evasive.  It claims 1717 was the birth of modern Masonry, and doesn't appreciate Freemasonry historians to look further in the past than this date.  It is amazing how all the books on these same subjects come up with such different conclusions.  The engraving of the &quot;Veronica&quot; was interpreted by &quot;The Head of God&quot; to be just that (a severed head) and here it is identified with the Shroud of Turin.  And speaking of the Shroud, here they establish that the most feasible theory regarding its origin is the image of Jacques de Molay.  (And they at the same time debunk &quot;The Templar Revelation&quot;'s theory surrounding its mystery)  It is surprising to note that in Templar history we find an interesting alternative in interpreting eschatological fulfillments-specifically the book of Revelation.  And that is their big claim.  Jacques De Molay became the &quot;Second Messiah.&quot;  He was their High Priest of Yahweh.  I'm not going to get into detail explaining this, but it is profoundly interesting.  By now you will not want to put this book down.  And once you hit the last chapter it is utterly FASCINATING.  And that is of course, if it is all true.  But the jigsaw puzzle fit of most of their theories certainly suggests that they have found something rather arcane and revolutionary.	2001-01-29
US	47717519	R1PJBAFQMULBRM	1570750580	746979223	The Hidden Heart of the Cosmos: Humanity and the New Story (Ecology & Justice)	Books	5	52	60	N	N	DEATH TO CONSUMERISM	Brian Schwimme has an archaic nostalgia.  For thousands, even millions, of years, people have united together to marvel at the mystery of the cosmos and contemplate the essence of it all.  It was the same macrocosm that each and everyone of the primitive cave dwellers to modern man have directly experienced.   But nowadays, we don't do that.  We disenchant the world by scientific explanations that view the universe as a machine, to the point where the mathematical explanations of phenomena are more significant than phenomena itself.  You might be thinking, no way, the majority of the world is religious, and contemplate such things regularly.  He points out that the problem with modern day religious thought is that when we ponder the deep questions of meaning in the universe, we do so in a context fixed in the time when the classical scriptures achieved their written form, rather than worshiping in the context of the universe as we have come to know it over the recent centuries.  Such knowledge is restricted to &quot;science&quot; which is at odds with religion.  It shouldn't be like this.  The Scientific Revolution was an age of this separation.  The current cosmology calls for an age of integration.  I am all for this goal of striving for a new consciousness.  Within our Newtonian minds, we've built such tiny worlds like this, which resulting from the machine view of a dead universe, we apotheosize and deify consumerism.  This book doesn't bicker about God or anything that people don't want to hear, it's just saying, &quot;Wake up from this man made world, cast back the veil from your eyes, be at one with this LIVING fecund universe!&quot;  You will truly be LIVING in the world once you appreciate the heart of the cosmos, which all though is around 15 billion light years away, is also every where at once.  There is no restriction to science.  The new cosmology is what has mystified the men of all ages, what they spoke of as the Tao, or the Logos - the emanating source of all creation.	2001-01-28
US	47717519	RUDSL0J4SXEW	0446674575	140809440	The Tenth Insight: Holding the Vision (Celestine Prophecy)	Books	5	34	40	N	N	The 10th Insight ~AN EXPERIENTIAL GUIDE~not 10 Insight novel	What we have here is a theistic, optimistic, and spiritual book with a New Age coloring.  This deals a lot with synchronicities, and has had a profound effect on my life since synchronicities are something that I experience first hand, frequently.  I recommend this book whether or not you believe it as a whole.  You don't need to, it still will be beneficial.  ( I don't believe everything it advocates)  To the stubborn skeptic, it might be a little to much to swallow, but as long as you have encountered synchronicity or serendipity... this book will be enjoyed.  It will only be worthless to the nihilist.  Why do I give it 5 stars though?  Was it really that brilliant?  No, but unlike some books that are merely valuable as food for thought, this is food for life.  It can be directly applied to where you stand now.  Perhaps 'soul food' is the proper term.  You will not read this by accident, and you will learn that nothing is an accident.  Without getting into its minor beliefs, I agree with the ultimate implied message that the book purports:<br />The meaning of life is simply, love<br />It emphasizes our need to generate loving energy unto all beings, and search for the genuine meaning in our lives, through prayer and synchronistic events.  It speaks a bit about analyzing synchronicities and their context, similar to interpreting dreams.  There is alot of fascinating info about things like dreams, and sacred sites.   There is much writing about the Afterlife.  The book teaches reincarnation, Birth Vision, and the idea that your Afterlife is created by what you believe it will be while on earth.  (That concept continues to confuse me!) They deny literal existences of Hell, Devils, and Judgement.  These are only to be viewed as metaphors.  We can transform our negative side through our heart with positive light.  It even contains a chapter about Work and Business, how we can use these as spiritual relationships and oppurtunities through changes.  The chapters end withindividual and group work, this will probably be where the book directly helps or influences you the greatest.  The author has great methods of analyzing our life and the big picture.<br />The vision is here, we must realize it.  As I said it doesn't really degrade this books value if you don't believe in NDE's, reincarnation, or whatever.  I believe there is alot of good here for us all.  I don't think I should get into more detail, if you are interested at all,  open your mind to this work!!	2001-01-27
US	47717519	R2MG123OEA8KHS	1573220906	210637134	Inner Revolution: Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Real Happiness	Books	4	4	4	N	N	What lies behind The Buddha's smile....	The Inner Revolution is a helpful aid to the individual.  It urges us to search for that &quot;I&quot; beyond the senses.  This might be a hard process when your essentially telling yourself to find yourself.  But its really telling &quot;yourself&quot; to find your true Self.  Once you've been enlightened and seen who you really are behind the external descriptions (and even challenge Descartes' &quot;I think, therefore I am&quot;), only then will you see yourself as one with all of life, rather than your own sensory awareness standing alone against the material world of other sentient beings who possess isolated realities.  Whenever a reaction occurs to something as a thought in your mind, even that is usually not your true Self.  Your spontaneous thoughts belong to a pool of the actions of people that you experience most in your life- friends, family, peers, etc.  When you quickly come up with a response, that originated from hearing it somewhere else.  It is key that we have the proper insight of interconnectedness to generate compassion towards all.  Therefore, the woes of society must begin with the Self, and cannot be fixed by mending the external features.  As Shantideva's shoe-leather analogy expounds, &quot;Who doesn't want to hurt his feet when he walks the rough and brambly earth has two choices; either cover the earth with leather or make himself a pair of sandals.&quot;  When we come to the realization of truth, we wish to bring that enlightenment to all others.  This is the only hope, what he terms as a 'buddhaverse', to ending the sufferings which we inflict on one another.  This book is also helpful in destroying the negative misconception of the Buddha's teachings.  Some people seem to think it is a philosophy of total apathy.  Quite the opposite, rather it believes that perfection comes from the self up (to the whole) and not the other way around.  Ascetism can be as dangerous as hedonism.  Buddhism finds the middle way with only what is ultimately important.  When the interconnected beings are enlightened, then there shall be true Unity.  And this is feasible because he doesn't identify enlightenment as an esoteric state of mysticism, but awareness of complete reality, that is for everyone.<br />Above is what I personally gained from &quot;The Inner Revolution&quot;.  However since it has to do with all peoples as well as your own self, there is alot of political material present as well.  But, as I have said, such should come after enlightenment of the Self.	2001-01-21
US	47717519	R35JXWE0QNNGZ6	0879517204	937274330	Jesus: One Hundred Years Before Christ	Books	3	15	29	N	N	No, no, no.  Jesus was a dinosaur!	This book stands unique in Jesus scholarship.  Non-theological scholars claim either the story of Jesus, the first century Jew, was either a fabrication of crucified criminal, or that his very existence was a fabrication and did not actually live.  Ellegard proposes that the first century Jesus, did not exist.  Rather, it was founded upon the Essene Teacher of Righteousness.  A generalization of the theory goes like this.  The Teacher lived in the 2nd century B.C., seen as a great prophet and teacher, however not a divine Messiah.  In the first century, Christianity first arose when Paul convinced the Diaspora Essenes that this figure was the Promised Messiah, whom he had experienced through visions and revelations.  The historical gospels are downright fictional works of 2nd century Christianity, and make all of modern Historical Jesus scholarship a horrendous anachronism.  He points out that Paul and all first century Christian writers never claim to have either known Christ or even known anyone who knew him, to them, he was a voice from the distant past.  The gospels were constructed not out of eyewitness oral tradition, but an array of outside sources like the Greek Cynics.  But I think that a theologian could argue here that, suppose that he (Paul) HAD recieved his writings from the risen lord, and then why should he prefer secondhand tradition.  Nevertheless Ellegard solves the widely acknowledged enigma of why Paul never mentions details from the life of the Pre-Easter Christ.  The first half of this book examines the earliest Christian documents: both canonical and non-canonical.  And there he really redates everything.  Some of his precepts are a bit too shaky however, or interdependent.  Or to say more clearly, once he twists in his redates everything falls into place and looks OK for him, but even if one of those conclusions is inaccurate, certain parts of his theory could be annihilated.  As I just said, some of his own redressing is questionable, and hepurposely modifies things to make his theory look like the clear truth.  Here's an example.  Jesus didn't live in the first three decades of the first century A.D. and therefore was not crucified by Pilate.  But Tacitus, an extrabiblical historian, tells us that Christus was crucified by Pilate in the first century.  Hmmm.  Earlier in the book, he tells us that since &quot;Christ&quot; only refers to a Messiah, and that there was not only one alleged Messiah in that era, that it need not refer to ours here.  He forgets to mention that its a CRUCIFIED Christ written of.  I think it would not be responsible on a historian's part to assume that this did not allude to Jesus.  But later in the book, he claims that it would not be trustworthy FOR a historian to base their first century dating on this reference, since Tacitus published his work in A.D. 110 and the bands of Christians were already spreading propaganda about their Savior.  But according to him the gospels were not written yet, and this seems weak unless he wants to admit that he is being more harsh on Jesus than anyone would on anyother ancient figure.   So, I repeat, Jesus is the Teacher of Righteousness.  How does he explain their differences when proposing this argument?  Well, he says, its their position as held by their followers that makes the connection.  But wait, he just admitted that there were so many Messiah-cults in the day, so how is their leadership only unique to them.  If its not unique to those two, then there is no connection.  Okay, now the Essenes.  He advocates the &quot;Sectarian Hypothesis.&quot;  I usually slam this down.  But indeed Ellegard has read Norman Golb's book &quot;Who Wrote the Dead Sea Scrolls?&quot;  So he does make the point, which is true, that although each of the 800 scrolls are not sectarian, the majority of them hold a consistent theology.  However, that does not vindicate the notion that celibate monks lived in Qumran and wrote a mass library there, though I admit that that part has not much to do with his theory.  With Golb's theory, Khirbet Qumran is a military fortress.  Since this contradicts the notion that Essenes were pacifists, as reported by Philo, Josephus, and Pliny, it is unlikely that they were the last inhabitants.  But no, Ellegard thinks that the 3 records we have could have been biased mis-representations.  Though he weakly corroborates this, I doubt that 3 historians would have done this and all in the same description, and that he was just finding extra support with all the minor modifications he could scrounge up.  But in the general outline, these are MINOR tenets.  So.... he says the Teacher of Righteousness looks like the first century, not second century (who was fiction), Jesus.  He also has read Carsten Thiede, who argued that Mark's gospel was used at Qumran, awarding it with a very early date.  Though he gets around this justifiably, he is silent on Thiede's other work, which finds an Egyptian Magdalean (Matthean) papyrus earlier than the Egyptian John fragment.  (which he says might not have been from John but from its source)  The ending.. is weird.  He says that his theory would not destroy Christianity, since it doesn't really matter when Jesus lived.  Does he realize though that it destroys the bulk of the New Testament's reliability?  But he was not saying that he personally still believes in Christianity.  In fact he says it is simply &quot;impossible for us to arrive at the ultimate truth&quot; and then in the final paragraph he says that there is no ultimate truth.   This work though, has definitely given me some motivation to research a few additional odds and ends, mainly deeper into Essenism... Give Alvar Ellegard a whirl!	2001-01-19
US	47717519	RWTXSPX5YGBMP	0892131012	268062879	The Science of Self-Realization	Books	5	22	26	N	N	He would make a funny scientist.	This here is a wonderful collection of assembled essays, exegeses, interviews, and letters to serve as a guide on the path of realization of the Supreme Personality of the Godhead.  We need to realize that our sole devotion should be our return to Krishna, and we should fully serve God.  This world's political leaders are lost without Realization, and by serving them we shall never have satisfaction.  The process of Krishna consciousness is not a story of secondhand religion- no no, it is a science.  In the material world we inquire about illusory irrelevant things, rather than Brahman.  He discusses how we are mediated by a guru, and warns us of the charlatans people have been fooled by.  'Pay me and in six months you can be God!'  A guru need not be affiliated with any religion, he only teaches people to love God and focus on Him.  Indeed, as one of the chapters is titled, Jesus Christ was a guru.  But how many people sincerely follow his message nowadays?  It's extremely scarce.  <br />He does not like to be identified as a Hindu.  He is not preaching any sect's truth over the others, instead a universal spiritual Unity that anyone who wants to love God can experience.  The distinction of &quot;Hindu&quot; &quot;Muslim&quot; or &quot;Christian&quot; is a rubber stamp that was later added on to God consciousness.<br />We cannot follow a religion or love God until we know the meaning of what these 2 things refer to.	2001-01-17
US	47717519	RGIG5BS7XTZZ0	0892132809	396685345	Sri Isopanisad: The Knowledge That Brings One Nearer to the Supreme Personality of Godhead, Krsna	Books	3	5	6	N	N	If someone knows how to pronounce this, e-mail me.	This book does some work explaining and elaborating on the 18 mantras of Sri Isopanisad.  He takes a look at where we stand as flawed physical sentient beings within the cycles of repeated death and birth, plus how to break away from that, the material plane, and the law of Karma.  He says that the only solution to our problems is a God-centered life, and spiritual knowledge, as opposed to material- which leads to 'nescience.'  Summed up, this book is about uniting with God, through the guide of a teacher, and ending the painful process of rebirth.<br />The book has some nice images as well, and while reading I was entranced into the painting of the stages of birth and death.  Also, if the ideas of this book is where you want to take your life, then there is also a final section on Krishna Consciousness at Home.  <br />My favorite mantra was number seven =)<br />...	2001-01-15
US	47717519	RNP99H6G8CKTG	0060609176	48611944	Meeting Jesus Again for the First Time: The Historical Jesus and the Heart of Contemporary Faith	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Aye, Nice to meet yah, Jesus!!	The message which Borg conveys is vital to the spiritual well-being of humanity.  He begins by sharing his own life experience from youth with religion.  He starts to identify the images that have been constructed of Jesus.  In the West, we are at a very young age taught about the fidiestic, eternal-life granting, Son of God Jesus.  Unfortunately, the bulk of Average Joes either cling onto this image until the grave or abandon all forms of religion completely by finding this Jesus distasteful.  What I liked most was that Borg identified Christ as a &quot;spirit person&quot; (a mystic, sage, what have you) and talked about mystical experiences rather than doctrine.  He was someone intimately in touch with God (like a Son) and pure of heart, an incarnation of the Logos, united with Spirit.  (He also analyzes Christ's position as &quot;sophia&quot;, or wisdom)  Also, all cultures have had their own similar spirit persons which call for a renewal from the Conventional Wisdom, unlike the many theologians who view Jesus as the only person to have ever known God truly.  And Borg is in a sense doing the same thing, calling us to shed off the &quot;conventional wisdom&quot; implanted in us by our authority or church figures at child hood of Jesus,  and shows us the real nature of things.  Not only this, but uses the fruits of historical jesus scholarship to make a renewed image of Jesus as who he really was.  Does this mean that the &quot;pre-Easter&quot; Jesus is ultimately more important than the &quot;post?&quot;  Not at all.  But what he was about was a relationship with the Pre-Easter risen Lord, not just a theological model constructed from literal hermeneutics and limited to its own self.   So Borg has the qualities of a mystic, and not just a theologian.  And this call to a unification with God, and not the authority of religious officials, is a jump from second-hand to first-hand religion.  And in his conclusion he tells us that this is what it means to meet Jesus again for the first time...that jump.  Personally, I've already opened my horizons and detached from the modern theology models of mainstream Christians, however this book may serve as an eye opener to some who are still trapped.  Though, I feel, that those who refuse to change will find this work disturbing, and maybe to even a slim few heretical.  For example Borg feels that homosexuality is not sinful, and to mention another admits that the Gospel's birth narratives may not represent historicity.  But this fixation on biblical fundamentalism is just what needs to be shed of for Oneness and Unity, a relationship with God and with others.	2001-01-14
US	47717519	R2ZA8GT99K8HQA	0877431604	958472576	Baha'u'llah and the New Era: An Introduction to the Baha'i Faith	Books	5	42	44	N	N	It's a New Dawn	I'm not going to get into much detail here, because this a book that you really just need to read for yourself.  Verily, every Earthling should read this.  Okay, that is a biased thing to say.  ( I believe in Baha'u'llah's revelation )  But to view this as a reader and not a theologian, it is a remarkable introduction to the 2nd most widespread and youngest of the world religions.  It is a source of the Baha'i view on a very large number of issues that face the world today.  I think its easy to at first be utterly confused by the Baha'i faith, but this book should aid you in a comprehension of Its message and what it means to be one of Its adherents.	2001-01-14
US	47717519	RWM2WXK8DJZCJ	1890350001	927318895	Catching the Thread: Sufism, Dreamwork, and Jungian Psychology	Books	5	35	38	N	N	A cloud in a Dream	Another book on the great Nothingness and Oneness/God and Monism-and our realization of this and merging with it.  The different methods this book used to capture the essence of Spirit were brilliant.  Those would be: Sufism, Dreamwork, and Jungian Psychology.  He writes about those archetypal characters that are within your own self, and the dark shadows that you have by which casted a veil between you and the Beloved.  That is what is also key to this work, it describes the true Love that is God and that I know is the essence of our full existence and the Ultimate Reality.  It is the ocean that is God, and any love that we experience in this life is a glimpse of the ocean of love which is Oneness.  And any beauty here on Earth is a reflection of the infinite ocean of beauty that is Oneness.  Our goal is to reach that by transforming our inner shadows.  Now you might wonder how that archetypal plane is related to reaching Oneness, and that is through the other side of this book: dreamwork.  Usually in describing monism and reaching God through the higher levels of reality, dreams are thought of as lower levels than what we experience now.  But this author interprets them in light of our Self, which is One with realization of God.  I must say that while reading this I felt more deeply suspended into that mystic Oneness.	2001-01-11
US	47717519	RG9RRU06IT80V	0767903439	900427094	The Marriage of Sense and Soul: Integrating Science and Religion	Books	4	2	3	N	N	It is not possible to fly with one wing alone!	Ken Wilbur is very serious and precise on taking up this task of integrating science and religion.  The first part of the book examines where philosophical thought has come on the matter and why all previous attempts at the great integration of the Kosmos have failed.  For a while I was just skimming and questioned whether his work would have any real value.  Boy, I was wrong.  Some might question how you could ever unite such differing areas of thought.  Well that's where he gets into &quot;real&quot; science and &quot;real&quot; religion, not their bogus baggage.  For any of this to be possible, Ken says, they will both have to give up a little.  With science, it must be realized that it is not equal and limited to sensory empiricism.  (And if one denies that they are invited to consider mathematics and logic) Religion must in turn set aside mythic dogma.  What this means is that real religion is not Moses parting the red sea or not, but rather uniting with 'God.'  Of course, even this first step will not be satisfactory to all and I'm not quite sure if he realizes this.  The baggage of the two has its own baggage, the die hard adherents: the materialist nihilists, and the fundamentalist historicists of religion.  I suppose the only answer is that they are as well bogus scientists and brethren.  But once he sheds off the corners of the two and broadens their perspectives on the Kosmos, they look more and more alike in finding the Ultimate Reality in what starts to also look alot like mysticism.  Once at this point, we see the monism that is better discussed in the last book I read, &quot;God's Whisper: Creation's Thunder.&quot;  I think that the only hope for fully finishing his grand proposal is the harmony of science and religion found in the teachings of the Baha'i faith.  If only more people would think like him. (and me)  Its not really going to matter whether Jesus could walk on water when following the true divine message under religion and the Kosmos, andreaching back home to God's unity. When you finish this..pick up 'God's Whisper: Creation's Thunder' Perhaps we all need take a look into the words of `Abdu'l-Baha: &quot;Religion and science are the two wings upon which man's intelligence can soar into the heights, with which the human soul can progress. It is not possible to fly with one wing alone! Should a man try to fly with the wing of religion alone he would quickly fall into the quagmire of superstition, whilst on the other hand, with the wing of science alone he would also make no progress, but fall into the despairing slough of materialism.&quot;	2001-01-10
US	47717519	R93PF8K920WJN	0939660482	185579868	God's Whisper; Creation's Thunder: Echoes of Ultimate Reality in the New Physics	Books	5	7	8	N	N	=U N I T Y=	This is VERY well thought out book about knowing the Ultimate Reality.  Mysticism and Physics are both aiming for it, that same Universal Truth.  But it can be found through contemplative meditation.  This helps me alot in my Baha'i views, not just in uniting God and his religions, but science and religions.  They are all varied and vast sides of a mountain with but one peak.  That peak is not just some supreme being, but being itself.  God is his creation, but not just that.  (i.e. not pantheism)  True &quot;perfect&quot; mystics all know the same pristine reality that is viewed as something different by the sectarian religions that stem from it.  This is also parallel to Baha'i beliefs in the Divine Manifestations all emanating from the one united God.  Everything is unity.  There are alot of other scientific and philosophical issues looked at by the author.  From Quantum Cosmology and the Big Bang to clearing up free will and determinism, at the same time connecting it to Karma.  Though this does not answer each and every question you'll have of the Ultimate Truth (it didn't for me atleast, there is stuff that I wish I could ask the author), its perspective is a key to your universal understanding, and that would be: monism.  This book is a good choice as your first step back home: divine Light and Unity.<br />O, yea, and its pages are riddled with beautiful verse from a perfect mystic--Rumi.  His message is one that you will find uplifting.  =)	2001-01-09
US	47717519	R33DTC8Z4SPE8H	071674161X	379897019	How We Believe: The Search for God in an Age of Science	Books	5	14	17	N	N	cover is definitely misleading	This book was great. I read some of the other views which were alot less kind and did point out errors, but I really loved reading this selection nonetheless. Though I can't say that my beliefs mirror the authors, I felt that he is someone who thinks very similar to me, he is a true agnostic. He's honest and not bitter towards religion, and interested in &quot;sacred science.&quot; The term that is probably best, that he uses, is nontheist rather than atheist. On debating (a)theism he has many good points made and refutations, such as that we could not even comprehend God (assuming that He existed) It goes back to using the analogy of explaining the 3rd dimension to 'Flatland.' Theres lots of debunking, he criticizes the most commonly used arguments for theism. (Ouch--some of the same ones I used to use..we all have our pasts) He shows the statistics derived from surveys on Why people believe in God, etc. which makes for some interesting material. And it goes to show that &quot;God is dead&quot; is a very false statement. Religiosity is on the rise in recent times. A couple of his debunking arguments did though make me reconsider some things that I used to agree with to some extent; however its not like he 100% renders them utterly useless...most of the arguments I would never use any way, the others may still remain as subtle evidence, but of course far from 'proof.' So as most books discuss WHY people believe, he surprisingly finds away to discuss HOW we believe, and our belief engines. There is alot of evolutionary perspective to this too, as well as anthropological, and the motifs that appear from us 'story-telling, pattern-seeking animals.' The chapter &quot;The Fire that will Cleanse&quot; is tantamount to a condensed version of Richard Abanes's book &quot;End Time Visions.&quot; (I couldn't believe for a second I found a book that talked about Leland Jensen [leader of the Baha'i Under Provisions of the Covenant] ) With all this he basically looks at the theology we humans created in our history here on earth, and I take it he infers that history will repeat itself. I recommend this to basically anyone, definitely the philosophically inclined and especially those debaters on (a)theism.	2001-01-08
US	47717519	RNYFK18WQ2GYG	0517884542	763972318	The Orion Mystery: Unlocking the Secrets of the Pyramids	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Those were smart Martians who built them there triangles	This book was intriguing to say the very least.  It was a fresh topic for me that drew me in to its concept.  The author takes the Giza pyramids, long believed by the textbooks to be based on a Solar Egyptian religion, and establishes that they were in fact constructed after a Stellar religion.  It explains the design of the Great Pyramid and what purposes its features served in the Star religion of the kings.  The line of the 3 Giza pyramids are modeled after Orion's belt, which becomes obvious after a simple comparison. Also, it analyzes the oldest religious documents ever recovered, &quot;The Pyramid Texts&quot;.. which are about 4000 years old.  This is a interesting look into the world of the enigmas of Egyptology.  Though it finds some satisfactory answers to age-old questions, not to mention re-dates ancient chronologies, still many questions remain unanswered even by the end, including the biggest of all... How were they built ??	2001-01-06
US	47717519	R2ZS9Y3XZRO4E1	1893163113	696321154	The Bhagavad Gita According to Gandhi	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Pristine Divine Enlightenment	This is the first of Hindu scripture I have read, and it is spiritually rewarding and enlightening.  This book will definitely have a potent effect on the rest of my life, which few things ever do.  I see this in a very important light and believe every one should meditate on its message to improve all of our lives.  This read could not be any more pleasing, you will not be disappointed.	2001-01-06
US	47717519	R17O478TPQRP93	1573220124	191619424	In Search of the Birth of Jesus	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Maybe that star was a U.F.O.	Ah, the magi... or wisemen.   Characters introduced to us at a wee little age.  How many people do you think could actually tell you who they were?  This author sets out to find the real truth behind their esoteric mystery.  He uses along with the canonized gospels the writings of Marco Polo, who has his own story of the Magi-Zoroastrian priests.  I think the book could have done a better job of organizing its research, but since it captivated my interest I am generous in presenting it 4 stars.  The author traveled over seas to find the places that Marco had spoken of in the far past, and succeeded.  Many of the chapters are autobiographical of his foreign adventures and encounters in his 1st person experiences.  His story has the diversity of elements that you might find in a work of fiction.  At many times his writing tone is rather sardonic, and at times comedic.  I do recall a few phrases he flung out within his writing styles that were rather corny though.  His partner, Reza, serves as the comic relief, using more cuss words than clean words.  He meets some very interesting characters throughout from a Mandaen priest to Yazeedi Satan-worshippers in places from bookstores to mosques to ancient sites and ruins.  Told you it was interesting!  Note: Khazzari is a very intriguing personality whom he encounters.. ( ~are not all religions one???~ )     He spends some time touring through ancient religion in Egypt, Israel,  and Persia, etc. -- Zoroastrianism, Essene Judaism-Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, etc.  He actually is astray of the subject of the Magi probably a bit too much.  As far as truth value, I know there are some things in here FAR less than what can be termed accurate.  The one that sticks out like a sore thumb is the Essene Jesus.  I usually comment when I scoff at someone advocating the Essene Sectarian hypothesis of the Qumran Community.  Wa-ho!! I should have kept my mouth shut!  Not only does he mention this, but that Jesus and his family were PARTof the Essene community and many other fatuities in the vein of Barbara Theiring.  There was no bibliography for me to verify this, but he really sounded like one who got a just a bit too excited by, oh, 'The Hiram Key'.  However, DEFINITELY, I recommend this work.  The visits to the historical places that were mentioned in Marco Polos &quot;Travels&quot; are fascinating!	2000-12-20
US	47717519	R3RV6V7A8QPT9V	0377001961	735331083	God Is One: The Way of Islam	Books	3	25	25	N	N	Introductory.. the basics	Absolutely no prior knowledge of Islam is required upon journeying into this book.  The author has a positive attitude in what you might call giving people an Islam &quot;awareness.&quot;  He starts out pointing out factors of why it is of utmost importance to know about Islam.  Along with this from the get go, he lets you know that this book is written from his Christian perspective.  But he is trying to destroy all the misinformation and stereotypes spread in Christian America about the Muslims.  He draws the parallels between the faiths and brings out the similarities.  This is a simple, general synopsis of Islam from its dawn to the  present time frame, and its interaction with Christianity.  Overall he merely seems active in getting Muslims and Christians to get along with eachother, and more importantly, fully understand eachother.  I think the author will have success in eliminating Western ignorance to Islam if this book is read. If you are looking for a very easy book to get to know Islam and its teachings, read this one.<br />If you already have learned much about Islam, then there is no value of anything new in here.  Look elsewhere.	2000-12-17
US	47717519	RVQOLKAFZ4BIC	0553353292	739134744	The Philosopher's Stone : Chaos, Synchronicity and the Hidden Order of the World	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The universe is more like a painting than a machine	This book is loaded.  It discusses a plethora of fascinating scientific topics, and finds a way to connect with all of our living universe in able to make meaning of it all.  Though some of what it includes may be rather difficult subjects, what the book puts forth is easy to understand...  I'm no scientist and I apprectiated what was said.  Synchronicity to Chaos Theory to Quantum Physics to phase space to unitary transformations and back.  Many metaphors and diagrams are used to illustrate his concepts simply.  Bond with our universe and be alive!!!	2000-12-12
US	47717519	RZ17GQRXMPSYN	0553353292	739134744	The Philosopher's Stone : Chaos, Synchronicity and the Hidden Order of the World	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The universe is more like a painting than a machine	This book is loaded.  It discusses a plethora of fascinating scientific topics, and finds a way to connect with all of our living universe in able to make meaning of it all.  Though some of what it includes may be rather difficult subjects, what the book puts forth is easy to understand...  I'm no scientist and I apprectiated what was said.  Synchronicity to Chaos Theory to Quantum Physics to phase space to unitary transformations and back.  Many metaphors and diagrams are used to illustrate his concepts simply.  It kept me up 'til 2 AM on a school night, it must be good!!   Bond with our universe and be alive!!!	2000-12-12
US	47717519	R2N4ISZ5MORQCX	0192158473	704603773	Murdered Magicians: The Templars and Their Myths	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Baphomet stole my teddybear!	This author is taking the more skeptical, professional side to Templar history...as opposed to the lunatic fringe of Templar historians that argue their esoteric secrets of heresy and arcane ancient secrets.  This book just looks at them rationally and what it was like to be a heretic in the Middle ages, and from there how the many myths were born of Templarism and its metamorphosis into Freemasonry.  Its not giving any credence to secret information taken from Jesus' day or twisted styles of Baphomet worship, but discusses where such notions originated.  It gives a decent clear synopsis of the history of the Templar knights.  Standard historical work that also sets out confuting the repeated ideas of conspiracy and what not.. if you are really interested though, it will take further research than this book.  He concludes that their most striking characteristic was their ordinariness.  Also, 'that their end arose not from the operation of demonic forces but as a result of their own mediocrity and lack of nerve.'	2000-12-12
US	47717519	R1P340GD9WM8CZ	0060616601	838932953	The Birth of Christianity : Discovering What Happened in the Years Immediately After the Execution of Jesus	Books	4	26	34	N	N	26 chapters capturing the dark years of early Christianity	I am always delighted to see someone write about the &quot;historical Jesus&quot; who actually knows something about history!! (i.e. not proposing that Jesus was a dinosaur or a mushroom or what have you) And to him, that would mean,  &quot;History is the past reconstructed interactively by the present through argued evidence in public discourse.&quot;... i like this guy.. Alert!  This is not a terse introductory work on early Christianity.  It is VERY thorough and scholarly, well researched in every aspect.  What I like about Crossan (judging by this, I haven't read his other books yet!!) is that though I might not always agree with him, he atleast has a methodology, be it anthropological, archaeological, etc. used to corroborate his argument.  True or not, he is always supported by research sources and in this book uses &quot;cross-cultural anthropology.&quot;  Though to any fundamentalist I speculate he would seem heretical in his 'butchering' of the gospels ( he was co-director of the Jesus Seminar who only  deemed 18% of the words attributed to Jesus authentic if I remember correctly ) he is respected by me as a reputable scholar. And he did spent 20 years of his life as a monk in a Roman Catholic medieval order--he knows his gospel.  And I suggest that you familarize yourself with the gospels prior to reading his work as well...in preparation to do ALOT of comparing.  Since the book is so deep, I would bet that if this topic is not of your deep interest, you may likely not finish it.  That's not to say its boring or no good, I'm glad I read it.  The only reason I emphasize this is because it took me a decent diuturnity to fully complete its near 600 page content.  However even Crossan assents that Qumran was inhabited by Essene sectarians, who were the possessors of the Dead Sea Scrolls library.  (I don't know but after reading Golb's book I can't see how anyone still grasps this theory)  Other topics include his theory by which he is somewhat known, a hypothetical document, 'The Cross Gospel,' (along with the Gospel of Peter's relation to the Passion-resurrection narration) which some but not the majority of other scholars advocate, &amp; it still certainly remains possible.  One thing he does NOT do is theological apologetics.  Instead, as I said before, he merely develops his methods and draws his conclusions from those.  I think his epilogue was a great way to end the book (even though I didn't quite fully agree w/ what he had to say), and actually a bit unexpected.   In conclusion, there's not much bad that I can say about this book.	2000-12-10
US	47717519	RZ0B2E0FEY7V0	0961308974	94947832	The Dead Sea Scrolls After Forty Years (Symposium at the Smithsonian Institution, Oct. 27, 1990)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Basic	Very general and introductory view on the scrolls at Qumran, atleast in my opinion.   But, that was because this is a collection of speeches and discussion, so its understandable.  I liked having scholars of different thoughts conversing together, and answering some FAQ.  But really, one needs to read more than this to really learn about the Dead Sea Scrolls in any amount of depth.  (try Norman Golb's book)  Also, this book is outdated, 1990. (prior to the 1991 first publication of many of the texts.) INFORMATIONAL: features Hershel Shanks James C. Vanderkam P. Kyle McCarter, Jr.  James A. Sanders	2000-12-07
US	47717519	ROJNNVXNEGIF6	1881532119	15944360	Casebook on the Men in Black	Books	3	21	24	N	N	Mixed Feelings	I read the other reviews. I must agree, the author quotes from a bunch of unheard of wacko sources.  And personally, I won't advocate stories stemmed from narcosynthesis and hypnosis.  At the start and end of this book I was very interested.  At many epochs in between, I was tediously scanning unsupported MIB accounts.  Disregard that one reviewer called this work scholarly.  The reference to the eye in the triangle insignia intrigues me... You would think after reading this that if the victims of the reports were malevolently warned to keep silent, that the MIB would certainly not let this book be published to the masses, or maybe the alternative, it is simply not true. Only for the very interested.<br />Best quote from the book, p 115<br />&quot;[The] three men are not just peculiar to 'Saucer' investigation, for there have always been 'three men' present during every great event of recored (and unrecorded) history.  They operate as hired henchmen of the 'International Bankers' and their only duty is to suppress all men who would act as channels of truth to other men... These secret world rulers will never allow official UFO announcements to be made to the public.  If they did allow it, it would spell their doom.  If the technology of the space visitors is revealed it will immediately eliminate the need for oil, gas, automobiles, and practically everything else that drains the public and keeps every family in America on a credit-buying spree until they are deposited six feet under.&quot;<br />Please excuse me, there are three oriental men at my doorway<br />...	2000-12-04
US	47717519	R1TYX1O7REM34G	0440218012	672357599	Ancient Secrets of the Bible	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Uh, nice book.	This book started out a whole lot better than it ended.  Though for me I guess most of it was not news and therefore many people will enjoy it more.  It is simple enough reading for anyone to finish.  And just as a warning, some of the biblical stories are novelized on and off throughout the book.  (I don't know why)  Personally I find metal artifacts that 'should not be' and discovering the roof burnt houses of ancient Sodom fascinating, however naturalizing and explaining dried up rivers and city walls a bit boring.  And though the ark of the covenant should be fascinating as well, their lack of substance and evidence did not make it much of an exciting read.   However, thats also because I've already read Grant Jeffrey's book to which they constantly referred.  All in all I recommend this to those interested.  But myself, I was satisfied only with the sections on Sodom, Babel, and the Exodus.	2000-12-03
US	47717519	RIE8S5UVD9306	0805241620	38072789	The Monk and the Philosopher : A Father and Son Discuss the Meaning of Life	Books	3	12	23	N	N	I have a different cover!!	A general look at existence by exploring Buddhist philosophies.  Not exactly what you might guess from the title and cover.  Does not focus as much on finding definite personal meaning in the individual human as you would think but also looks into all humans of the world and politics.  Uses some nice parables to help understand some Buddhist understandings of the nature of existence.  Much more depth on debating the sons (monk's) views than doing the same with the father's.  Though it was good enough to finish, sadly I was happy to get it done with, I think it actually got worse as it proceeded.  ..Talks alot about the Dalai Lama. hmmmm.. pretty ok book	2000-11-29
US	47717519	R2KOLC86PTLR1	0940121182	205296286	Abraham Connection, The: A Jew, Christian and Muslim in Dialogue (CHURCH AND THE WORLD)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A fresh look at the traditions of the 3 sects of Abrahamism	This book was great...' kept my full attention.  The last book I reviewed was about the same religions, but this one was so much better.  It gave me a much better understanding of the common Islamic views.  You get the words straight from the discussion between the 3 faiths, not just one man's research of other men.  This book is very simple for any reader to enjoy.  It is always great not only to see comparative religion but to see people with entirely different views on the same subjects conversing &quot;in a beautiful manner&quot;.  They are struggling to find a way to bring their views together, and the Christian commented on how very close he was to including Muhammad as a prophet of God.   Their struggles just begged one uniting cry in my mind, although they didn't know it themselves:    Baha'i.	2000-11-20
US	47717519	R20JLA09MNFY0S	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great reading	This is a great introductory book about information on the Gnostic gospels of the Nag Hammadi library.  It presents basically unbiased discussion of some of the theological ideas present in the Gnostic sources, and how they inter-twine with Christian history.  I just await the day when someone digs up another accidental discovery like this or the Dead Sea Scrolls, and the study of early Christianity is once again turned 180 degrees    &gt;;-)	2000-11-19
US	47717519	R24I0GMA5H49O7	0691020302	284049636	Children of Abraham	Books	4	14	20	N	N	A well done comparative study	First, I hope I'm reviewing the right book!!  My book is Children of Abraham Judaism Christianity Islam, Both of these were listed as separate books by this author, but the one called Judaism, Christianity, Islam was too long to be the one I have.<br />Anywayssssss..... I enjoyed reading this book.  But don't expect any more than what the title says or any controversial arguments.  Its just an informational source comparing the 3 Abrahamic world religions.  Though the layman can read it, and its nothing difficult, its not exactly an introductory book either.  I suggest you already familiarize yourself with the 3 religions prioring to using this study.  <br />But it does a good job presenting the history, theology, and rites of the Children of Abraham. =)	2000-11-12
US	47717519	R362T315V7T8FX	0684848910	114374014	The Templar Revelation: Secret Guardians of the True Identity of Christ	Books	5	26	30	N	N	An enigma........and recommendation	I give this book five stars because I could not put it down.  Now, that doesn't mean its true, some books are so addictive for their silliness.  But this book, like many others similar to it (the hiram key), presented thesises that seem to have some substance to them somewhere internally, however usually unlikely parallel to the author's conclusion.  However the scholarship on this book is much better than say, The Hiram Key, and the research done much better, relying on some scholars who are reliable (Golb, Crossan) though some who are anything but that.(Thiering, Schonfield) Obviously, this book's conclusions are certainly heretical to Christianity, though some of its statements even &quot;heretical&quot; to the paradigms of history.  I mean by this notions that Jesus' religion was not Judaism, but an Egyptian mystery school.  Overall, this book presents many convincing arguments that make you reconsider some conceptions (Again I reluctantly put down the Hiram Key in juxtaposition...none of the Hiram Key worried me at all, I was impressed by its theory and authors, but not scholarship and research..sadly, it really was a good book..)  One strong argument for the historical implications was the modern existance of a religion venerating John the Baptizer of Jesus, not only that but going as far as enmity between the Christ and their sect.<br />All in all it is without a doubt in my mind worth further research, because they certainly have made connections between subjects, but any of the conclusions of the connections are speculative, perhaps biased.  But, some of the information was new news and revelation to me, so I must admit it remains the best book I've read recently and you should take a look into its claims as well.<br />You'll also find some cool things hidden in &quot;The Last Supper.&quot;	2000-11-02
US	47717519	R1L47TH2P3DZTM	0912776404	113506735	Raja-Vidya: The King of Knowledge	Books	5	10	10	N	N	This book has been essential to me	Here's my story.  I was at a book sale at my local library.  There was little selection remaining.  It was a 5 dollar a bagfull of books deal.  I tossed this book in just for kicks.<br />Its a very easy &amp; short book, 110 small pages to be exact.  I believe in the oneness of religion.  I believe in &quot;christianity&quot; but do not limit myself to that.  I have come to realize this through the Baha'i faith.  The founders of other religions have been just as true manifestations of God.  <br />I know alot about religions, but I barely knew anything about Hinduism other than a few basics.  I suspected it would be a harder one to reconcile or complement with Judeo-Christian-Muslim concepts. But from what has been revealed to me in this brief handy book was completely parallel to my beliefs and Baha'i type beliefs, that is I could see the unity of its god with the western god, which i believe is the same god.<br />One point they made where this was evident, which I agree on is, in the Christian religion, is Jesus claimed to be the son of God and to be coming from the Kingdom of God to reclaim conditioned souls.  As followers of Baghavadgita, they admit this claim to be true.  Krishna is to Hinduism what Jesus is to Christianity, I recognized this reflection of Baha'i principles.<br />Also, just as the New Testament stressed, he enforces spirit over material body.  Eternal over the temporal.  Granted, there are some differences.  They emphasize many births until you reach Krishna consciousness, what we know as reincarnation.  But this is all really still up for interpretation, did not Jesus say that to enter the kingdom one needed to be &quot;born again?&quot;<br />One other connection to Jesus I made, do you remember when he said worry not about what to eat, drink, and wear for the birds do not do this but the Father provides for them?  The author illustrates what we have become through materialism that our animal-friends have not lost.  If we threw grain on the street, pigeons may come and eat a few crumbs, then fly away leaving the rest.  If we were to place bags of flour on the street someone would come and take 10 or 15 and leave no others, they would take much more than they actually needed whereas all the birds would be fed by the same grain.  God provides us with these things indeed, if we could only distribute them.<br />But upon reading this I am able to unite Hinduism with the oneness of other beliefs.  This served as an easy but wonderful introduction to Hinduism for me.  I can see my belief through comparing this books message and the ones I had learned previously...The Lord is manifested to different people at different times to give the appropriate message in the given setting.  <br />If this has never become evident to you, please read this book.  A book that I got for almost free on a whim that I thought I might possibly never read has been so very satisfying to me that I thought I would share it and hope you consider it	2000-10-11
US	47717519	RAK5E3O3345F2	0922729433	580276410	Fallen Angels and the Origins of Evil	Books	4	239	259	N	N	Worth the read	Did you ever wonder about the &quot;sons of God&quot; in the sixth chapter of Genesis?  Well, it was a few lines summing up the book of Enoch, likely written prior to Genesis even.  This book argues that Enoch is Scripture and also explains why that is so.  But since as the cover reads the church fathers suppressed it, we don't find it in our Bibles today.  But by drawing parallels to it and our Bible it concludes Jesus had thorough Enochian knowledge.  Not only that, but that all the characters of biblical times knew of the Watchers' fall, and the adulteration of our race with Nephilim genetics.  They also believe that there were 2 'falls' of the angels rather than one, as commonly thought of as result to Lucifer's fall.  The first, out of pride, the Nephilim fell.  Second, out of lust, did the Watchers.  And as temptation befell the Watchers to incarnate male homo sapiens, the daughters of ancient man gave birth to giants, reputed to be 300 cubits tall by the books translation of Enoch.  That also adds to this books value, it has the complete book of Enoch and the book of the secrets of Enoch, and excerpts from the book of Jubilees and the testaments of the twelve patriarchs.  Last of all, the book has many illustrations of angel related scenes portrayed.   Not a likely best seller, but a worthy read for those interested:)	2000-10-10
US	47717519	R3988GME4INC5J	002544395X	287080833	Who Wrote the Dead Sea Scrolls? (The Search for the Secret of Qumran)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Excellent	If you only read a few books about Qumran and the Dead Sea Scrolls, look no further.  This book is the one you are looking for.  The value of this book can be equated to the value of NUMEROUS books on the same subject.  One reason this is so, is because it spends throughout time discussing and criticizing other authors, archaeologists, and Qumranologists.  I feel with confidence after reading this book that the scrolls were certainly not composed by an &quot;Essene sect.&quot;  <br />An equally appropriate title for this work could be &quot;A History of the Dead Sea Scrolls.&quot;  It deals with all the work that has been done since their discovery, the excavation of Khirbet Qumran, and many other important relevant topics. <br />Though I very much enjoyed this book I wish that the author could have dealt more with his theory and not just his criticism of the traditional Sectarian theory.  He believes the scrolls were of Jerusalem origin and Khirbet Qumran a Jewish military fortress, but does not go in depth to elaborate as much as he does pointing out all of the other researchers' fallacies.<br />But this does not cut down the importance of reading this book to anyone interested in looking into the Dead Sea Scrolls.  If you are such a reader, THIS BOOK IS A MUST:)	2000-10-06
US	47717519	R3TTD1DOJARYD3	038548898X	287274073	The Jesus Papyrus: The Most Sensational Evidence on the Origin of the Gospel Since the Discover of the Dead Sea Scrolls	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Very Informative!	I finished this book in two days and found it very intriguing as to a topic new to me.  Prior to my reading, I thought that the Egyptian found early 2nd century fragment of John's gospel was the earliest recovered piece of New Testament literature.  However, this book proves that 3 fragments, also Egyptian found, are pre-Jerusalem destruction (AD 70) although once dated as 3rd-4th century.  This book will be beneficial and faith augmenting to Christians because it shows that Matthew's gospel was written in the 60s of the first century, if not earlier, contrary to the vein of critical scholars who late date the New Testament and claim the real Jesus is clouded by post-destruction inventions.  With this earlier, more historically reliable dating of the Matthean fragments, we can put Mark's gospel at an even earlier date!  Speaking of the Markan account, this book also goes into some depth in establishing that a fragment found in Cave 7 at Qumran (home to the Dead Sea Scrolls) is indeed a portion of Mark, making its latest date AD 68.  The authors do very well in justifying their conclusions, which they do also by juxtaposition of the fragments and other works of antiquity in what seems to be a valid methodology.  I feel the Magdalen papyrus (the 3 Matthean fragments as to which the title refers) could very possibly to some extent revolutionize New Testament historical thinking by serving as a new paradigm.  Anyone interested in Papyrology or New Testament historicity should read The Jesus Papyrus!	2000-10-04
