US	47713962	R3UU86E263ZF4U	014017060X	706547225	The Death Guard (Roc)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unknown classic mostly deserving of status.	Chadwick was an English author, and this represents his only published novel. He was a political thinker with socialist tendencies and a disciple of H.G. Wells. As such, he was most interested in his science fiction as a means to explore social and philosophical issues of the day. It would make an excellent movie, full of visual metaphor. This is an anti-war novel that came out jut as the Nazis were mobilizing for WW2, and is very prescient in many ways. . It paints a remarkable picture of a nation preparing for war they know to be inevitable, and this is not surprising, since it echoes events current at the time of the book's writing. For years it was considered a lost novel, but now it is merely undiscovered. It involves the creation of huge artificial soldiers with no more mind or nervous system than protozoa but with an insatiable instinct to kill.<br /><br />The book is divided into three parts. The first part of this novel is great, chilling at times, funny and charming at times. We meet the inventors of the artificial life, to show us they were not madmen, through the eyes of our eventual hero's aunt. We follow their story from their first meeting after a conflict we take to be WW1, but was probably not intended to be, through the time when they relocate their lab to the Congo for its more conducive weather conditions. The first we hear of the matured Death Guard is via a radio broadcast that is ended prematurely by the hideous murder of the announcer watching.<br /><br />Throughout this portion there is a sense of growing dread, and impending doom, as nationalist posturing and rumors of war spread. (The very act of preparing defense for war escalates the conflict; Chadwick would not have sided with 80's Star Wars policies.) We meet a girl we know will figure in more later; it is a contrived gambit to introduce a love interest, but it does help to add emotional stakes to the plot, and she is a well rendered character.<br /><br />The next part is a smaller-scale tour of the process of making and growing the \\"pugs\\", as the protagonist \\"enlists\\" in one of factories and gets a firsthand look at what his uncle and grandfather had wrought. This section contains echoes of Wells and Dr. Moreau, as the factory chief reads from the \\"Word of Man\\" to keep the natives who do the majority of the work in \\"their place.\\" (The book is quite racist, even for the era.) Meanwhile, nations continue to mass their forces.<br /><br />As interesting as this section continues to be, giving insight into the narrator and the nearly-unstoppable Death Guard, it is a step down, slows the momentum considerably, steps away from the metaphor established, introduces a number of unlikable characters, and keeps the reader at a distance emotionally. We never really know why the protagonist \\"enlists\\" when he could have done more from a position of power. We lose some sense of scale regarding the war, and never hear from any \\"leaders.\\" Perhaps that was by design, portraying the confused madness of a world gone mad. But we readers should have the luxury of clarity. Part 2 also simply goes on too long.<br /><br />The third section is an improvement, recounting the war with continental Europe and the breakdown of infrastructure, and relating the horrors of combat in fine detail. There truly are some memorably horrific passages, involving poisonous electric gas, \\"humanite\\" bombs, and the unfeeling march of the Death Guard across the very land they were designed to protect. Later there is fine suspense as the Death Guard continues to wander unchecked across the broken landscape even after all the enemy has been killed, and commentary (prediction?) on what unforeseen changes occur after a new weapon is unveiled, as this new deadly life form multiplies. It is an unflinching account, and seems to be setting itself up for a movingly nihilistic conclusion.<br /><br />I will reveal no more of the plot, but must comment on the ending: I found it somewhat of a letdown: unconvincing, rapid and convenient. Still, the book is a fine piece of work and deserves to be better known, despite its draggy middle and arguably botched finale.<br /><br />Is it worth the $100 or so price currently needed to purchase it? I will leave you to answer that. (I got mine in a rare stroke of luck for $4.50.) But it is a well-written novel of futurist sci-fi/horror and gruesome social commentary, worth quite a bit in the final analysis.letdown: unconvincing, rapid and convenient. Still, the book is a fine piece of work and deserves to be better known, despite its draggy middle and arguably botched finale. <br /> <br />Is it worth the $100 or so price currently needed to purchase it? I will leave you to answer that. (I got mine in a rare stroke of luck for $4.50.) But it is a well-written novel of futurist sci-fi/horror and gruesome social commentary, worth quite a bit in the final analysis.	2004-10-13
US	47713962	R1TF5QINZO8KER	0099089009	847522700	Strange Conflict	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Pulpy Polytheistic Potluck Packs Plenty of Punch.	The year is 1941. The Nazis are sinking an astounding percentage of British Trans-Atlantic ships. Their abilities to ascertain where these ships will be and when their escorts will leave seems almost... supernatural. Enter our hero Duke de Richleau, who is able to convince one man in the British Intelligence that they may be battling not only earthly but astral enemies, able to see things during out-of-body experiences while asleep. These would include sealed mission plans for the British navy. Duke and his cluster of stiff-upper lip heroes eventually trace the threat to Haiti and a powerful witch doctor.<br /><br />More weird things figure into this very readable stew, sure to whet the appetites of fans of vintage pulp or horror: voodoo, reincarnation, zombies, poltergeists, et al. Even toss in an appearance by Pan.<br /><br />Wheatley is effective in setting the stakes as extending beyond mere life and death, and wastes no opportunity to tell readers of the wanton cruelty of which the Nazis and their allies were capable, cruelty going beyond this existence. He is able to sustain tension and thrills through real affection for the characters and their plight, and through the capacity for sadism of the villain, who is revealed late in the book, although one might guess earlier.<br /><br />The couple of action scenes get the heart pounding, including one where the heroes are carrying a corpse to properly lay it to rest but are chased by a Haitian mob through a ghetto. Another is a chase in the astral plane that would be very fun to see through modern movie magic, as combatants turn into wasps, snakes, squids and more in rapid succession.<br /><br />Other scenes are fun in a way Wheatley may not have intended, as our heroes must keep themselves from falling asleep, since they were lacking sufficient magical protection for the astral battles they knew would ensue. These are exciting in their own way, but there's something comical about a lengthy suspense scene revolving around staying awake all night.<br /><br />On the negative side, this is perhaps 50 pages too long, which may sound like a lot, but it reads faster than that. It's just that Wheatley takes us down several paths that, while not uninteresting, could have been excised or summarized without any loss to the narrative. Additionally, Wheatley's writings are very propagandist and racist, especially toward native Haitians.<br /><br />As far as plot, it holds up well as pulp fantasy horror, although there seemed to be one instance of fudging the astral \\"rules.\\" You be the judge.<br /><br />Some reviewers object to Wheatley's recurring demonic themes. It's not that Wheatley is pro-Satan or anything; his heroes are on the side of the angels, so to speak. But the devilish rituals are described with such attention to detail, and his protagonists combine so many of the world's \\"good\\" religions into one type of claptrap, that there may be enough to put off almost anyone's sensibilities. Still, this particular book has less to offend than many of his other works (you'll generally know by their titles). Some may otherwise object to the didactic tone, but if you find the subjects interesting, you likely will not be bothered.<br /><br />In the final analysis, the main question to ask in determining a book's quality is if it makes one want to read more by the author, and Strange Conflict did so for me. Perhaps I shall try Star of Ill Omen next.evolving around staying awake all night. <br /> <br />On the negative side, this is perhaps 50 pages too long, which may sound like a lot, but it reads faster than that. It's just that Wheatley takes us down several paths that, while not uninteresting, could have been excised or summarized without any loss to the narrative. Additionally, Wheatley's writings are very propagandist and racist, especially toward native Haitians. <br /> <br />As far as plot, it holds up well as pulp fantasy horror, although there seemed to be one instance of fudging the astral \\"rules.\\" You be the judge. <br /> <br />Some reviewers object to Wheatley's recurring demonic themes. It's not that Wheatley is pro-Satan or anything; his heroes are on the side of the angels, so to speak. But the devilish rituals are described with such attention to detail, and his protagonists combine so many of the world's \\"good\\" religions into one type of claptrap, that there may be enough to put off almost anyone's sensibilities. Still, this particular book has less to offend than many of his other works (you'll generally know by their titles). Some may otherwise object to the didactic tone, but if you find the subjects interesting, you likely will not be bothered. <br /> <br />In the final analysis, the main question to ask in determining a book's quality is if it makes one want to read more by the author, and Strange Conflict did so for me. Perhaps I shall try Star of Ill Omen next.	2004-08-25
US	47713962	R1SEKZLDANEYDN	0060974850	283073235	Calamity Fair: A Max Thursday Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Much Better Than Just Fair.	Wade Miller (actually two men writing together) was one of the shining lights of the paperback original. Their creation, the San Diego detective Max Thursday, was a somewhat standard yet memorable addition to the cycle of PIs filling up millions of pages in the 1950s. Thursday didn't carry a gun, due to some incidents told in his first book, but was a hard-boiled kind of guy struggling to do a job and make a buck and see right win out somehow, whether or not the law would see it his way. His personal demons never seemed like whining, and his sensitive romanticism successfully toed the line, leavened as it was with a healthy cynicism as well.<br />This book sees him take on an organized blackmail ring. In addition, the DA, a recurring character who is not happy Thursday has previously gotten away with four killings on self-defense rulings, thinks he may be involved. The blackmail involves everything from illicit photos of a society gal to gambling debts racked up by the DA's own wife (who Thursday agrees to help in order to protect the career of the man who is trying to ruin him). Thursday has to sort through various suspects to find out who is behind it all, including a thug who winds up dead in an alligator farm, a seductress in charge of the office Thursday knows fronts for the blackmail ring, a former actor, a funny little weasel who runs a fortune telling service out of a building shaped like an upside-down ice cream cone, and several others.<br />A series of unlucky events seem to implicate Thursday in three more murders as he chases down clues; he has a serious knack for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Yet with all these intricately plotted coincidences and divergent elements, the book never seems like a series of gimmicks arrived at first with a mystery filled in around them later (though that may have been exactly how it was done). The well-written climax comes in a meat locker, after the head criminal makes a mistake allowing Thursday to deduce where the blackmail evidence is kept.<br />I am always skeptical of PI novels that do not utilize first-person narration. But Miller managed to write this tale in an entertaining voice. There is some nice dialogue, and some plot ideas that I had not read before. One of the best things is the recurring set of characters, including a spunky lady reporter with whom Thursday enjoys an on again/off again tease of a romance. The reporter would seem to be his bantering soul mate, and helps him out unofficially on his cases, adding an air of humor and sophistication to the works, a la Nick and Nora.<br />One small thing that didn't gel was Miller's idea of beginning the story near the end, where Thursday is a fugitive, then flashing back to the start. It was a move designed to grab the reader with a bolt of suspense from the get-go, but it was just disorienting to me. The first couple of chapters did not improve much. But then things settled into a rhythm, the book soon gathered momentum and had me flipping pages.<br />This is one Max Thursday book that makes for good reading any day.where the blackmail evidence is kept.<br />I am always skeptical of PI novels that do not utilize first-person narration. But Miller managed to write this tale in an entertaining voice. There is some nice dialogue, and some plot ideas that I had not read before. One of the best things is the recurring set of characters, including a spunky lady reporter with whom Thursday enjoys an on again/off again tease of a romance. The reporter would seem to be his bantering soul mate, and helps him out unofficially on his cases, adding an air of humor and sophistication to the works, a la Nick and Nora.<br />One small thing that didn't gel was Miller's idea of beginning the story near the end, where Thursday is a fugitive, then flashing back to the start. It was a move designed to grab the reader with a bolt of suspense from the get-go, but it was just disorienting to me. The first couple of chapters did not improve much. But then things settled into a rhythm, the book soon gathered momentum and had me flipping pages.<br />This is one Max Thursday book that makes for good reading any day.	2003-12-09
US	47713962	RBFBYEX7YW213	0671652850	849890047	Sleep With Slander (Blue Murder)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Out-Macdonalds Macdonald, yet falls short of classic status.	No less an authority on mysteries than Bill Pronzini has called this novel the finest mystery ever written by a woman. It is unquestionably a fine effort, although I think Leigh Brackett's works surpass it in panache if not plot.<br />The hero of the book, Sader, is a PI in the Marlowe tradition, a single, good-hearted but tough, world-weary man given to smoking and thinking when not peering into keyholes. And the feel of the book is pure Ross Mac, as Sader is hired to locate a missing boy by a pompous rich man hiding more than a few skeletons in his family closet. Sader doesn't like the man, but agrees to take the case because of the boy. (And perhaps, just perhaps, because the man annoyed him by wanting to know if Sader was any good.) No one wants to seem to level with Sader, the trail is much colder than it should be, and then the one woman who may have been persuaded to help is killed before she can.<br />This is as sad a tale as anything in detective fiction, with humor in one character for a couple of pages, then a return to all gloom and foreboding (which is not necessarily a criticism). It's about murder, dirty secrets, child abuse, rape, insanity, hidden identities, drunkenness, accidental drowning and dog-napping, among other things. After its twists have been straightened, it is neither about what nor whom it started out being about; you may guess whodunit, but not how or why. The fractured family situations and tortuous, tortured plots of Ross Mac have nothing on Hitchens' here.<br />Still, something is missing. I was recommended this book as an able substitute for Chandler and Howard Browne, and while it somewhat fits that bill, there are certain attributes I expect from a book being given such a comparison, which Sleep With Slander does not provide. Despite all the hard-boiled elements of the Chandler idiom (minus the first-person narrative) being firmly in place, there is an indefinable softness to the work which holds it back. Hitchens scribed primarily feminine gothics, so this foray into PI-land might seem an inauthentic pastiche. A further detriment is the lack of perspective. This sort of thing seems to demand the intensely personal glimpses into battered souls only first-person writing can really achieve.<br />What may be most damaging is the lack of any real style, or distinctive voice, to Hitchens' writing. There are none of the wisecracks of Chandler or Browne, little humor like Latimer or Davis would have injected, no explosive brusqueness as per Hammett. It is gracefully generic, somehow self-conscious prose, hung over the formidably crafted plot like loose skin.<br />All these comments may make it sound as though I had an unfavorable impression of the book, and that's not true. I enjoyed reading it quite a bit. But it does not reach the status of a masterpiece, as I had been led to believe. And hindsight being 20/20, it was not memorable enough to purchase.ily feminine gothics, so this foray into PI-land might seem an inauthentic pastiche. A further detriment is the lack of perspective. This sort of thing seems to demand the intensely personal glimpses into battered souls only first-person writing can really achieve.<br />What may be most damaging is the lack of any real style, or distinctive voice, to Hitchens' writing. There are none of the wisecracks of Chandler or Browne, little humor like Latimer or Davis would have injected, no explosive brusqueness as per Hammett. It is gracefully generic, somehow self-conscious prose, hung over the formidably crafted plot like loose skin.<br />All these comments may make it sound as though I had an unfavorable impression of the book, and that's not true. I enjoyed reading it quite a bit. But it does not reach the status of a masterpiece, as I had been led to believe. And hindsight being 20/20, it was not memorable enough to purchase.	2003-10-29
US	47713962	R2YULL44ZSPGOX	0812916719	340151120	Eddy Deco's Last Caper	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Entertaining, even though it doesn't really work.	This is a story that tells of a wonderful world of femme fatales and PIs and cops and gangsters and... more. If only Wilson had played fair.<br />It begins as hard-boiled parody and ends as soft science-fantasy. I am a fan of mixed genres on occasion, and of genre spoofs, and I think author Wilson could have made this work, or written a spoof of either genre individually, but together, it's just too much to give any of it justice.<br />Even so, the first part, before introducing too many otherworldly elements, reads like a solid if unorthodox hard-boiled parody, with serviceable parodies of PIs, femmes fatale, Runyonesque thugs, Sidney Greenstreet, Edward G. Robinson and Peter Lorre.<br />Then Deco goes to meet the wealthy father of the beautiful dame who came into his office to hire him... and we learn that the father survives as only eyes and a brain kept alive in a tank of fluid. From there, the story gets wilder, with lasers from skyscrapers, an octopus car, a spider woman, a lobster man and living hardware that attacks humans.<br />I also wonder if the creators of Men in Black did not borrow from this story, as it involves aliens who have lived on earth unbeknownst to humans, influencing culture while they work to repair their spaceships and leave our planet. The conclusion has Deco shooting his way out of the belly of a slimy creature, like Tommy Lee Jones did in the first film.<br />None of these things by themselves turned me off; in point of fact, I enjoyed them. But there was no context to this weird world: I found it unbelievable and damaging that no one ever showed any surprise or shock or even any real fear at these evermore outlandish events and creatures. Neither was there any groundwork established that this kind of thing had gone on regularly before. So it just didn't hold up. If there are no rules, there can be no suspense, and that diminishes the fun considerably.<br />There will be a certain small segment of readership that will love this book as is and say I am being a wet blanket. But I'm really not. I think a book featuring octopus-tentacled studebakers can be believable if it is engagingly written with some convincing depth. But Eddy Deco's Last Caper, aside from some smart dialogue in the first half, too often lacks these attributes.<br />I also found it jarring that some of the action in this story is told by illustrations, with no parallel prose. For example, the author would say, &quot;And then...&quot; Then there would come a picture of an arm with a gun snaking through a door into a room and firing. Then the next paragraph would pick up after the victim was already dead. It was an interesting technique, but it cheapened things somehow and made an already short book even shorter (There are illustrations on at least half of the 213 pages.) The illustrations themselves are in a juvenile style, which perhaps fits the fantastic story elements, but seemed sloppy. (Yes, I know Wilson is an award-winning cartoonist)<br />An interesting read for buffs and fans of the different, but not really worth a purchase.is and say I am being a wet blanket. But I'm really not. I think a book featuring octopus-tentacled studebakers can be believable if it is engagingly written with some convincing depth. But Eddy Deco's Last Caper, aside from some smart dialogue in the first half, too often lacks these attributes.<br />I also found it jarring that some of the action in this story is told by illustrations, with no parallel prose. For example, the author would say, &quot;And then...&quot; Then there would come a picture of an arm with a gun snaking through a door into a room and firing. Then the next paragraph would pick up after the victim was already dead. It was an interesting technique, but it cheapened things somehow and made an already short book even shorter (There are illustrations on at least half of the 213 pages.) The illustrations themselves are in a juvenile style, which perhaps fits the fantastic story elements, but seemed sloppy. (Yes, I know Wilson is an award-winning cartoonist)<br />An interesting read for buffs and fans of the different, but not really worth a purchase.	2003-10-15
US	47713962	R378UZJC2PLLSV	0375415009	956020368	Raymond Chandler: Collected Stories (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	Addendum for completists (like me)...	Strictly speaking, there is one short story of Raymond Chandler's that this volume does not include: A Couple of Writers.<br />But it is not a *crime* story, may have had a few autobiographical elements, and went unpublished for a long time. So this book's claim could, I suppose, still be seen as valid.<br />If you're curious about this last story (it is a straight dramatic piece about a novelist and a playwrite, and their marriage on the rocks), you may find it in the otherwise thoroughly unnecessary book entitled Raymond Chandler Speaking.	2003-10-09
US	47713962	R24DIQOIW1MODA	1566195276	944772987	Best of S J Perelman	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Classic essays from a masterful humorist.	This is a collection of satirical essays written between 1931 and 1947. But many of remain viable, chuckle inducing observances on life, enjoyable today. Dated elements include the technology of the time or popular culture references, such as Ronald Colman, but the style of the humor is timeless. Imagine Perelman as a rather more literary Mike Nelson, or less sophomoric Dave Barry, and ask yourself if those men will be funny to readers in the year 2068.<br />Perelman possesses great comedic range, capable of the good-natured warmth and bemusement of Garrison Keillor or Jean Shepherd, detached intellectual dissection of cultural foibles, and inspired sarcasm and zaniness, having scripted some truly wacky films for the Marx Brothers, among his other accomplishments. His commentaries in this book are on subjects as varied as tax deductions, buffaloes, the &quot;Yellow Peril,&quot; bitterness from Santa's elves, Vogue Magazine's Woman of Tomorrow, and the assemblage of a Jiffy Cloz moth-proof portable closet. Titles include &quot;Is there an osteosynchrondroitrician in the house?&quot;, &quot;Nothing but the Tooth,&quot; &quot;Physician, Steel Thyself,&quot; and &quot;A Farewell to Omsk.&quot; Even if you do not appreciate the puns evident in the titles, do not take that to mean the contents of each are not substantive (and often hilarious); it just means that Perelman extended his funny bone even into naming his compositions. And despite the sharp wit, Perelman never comes across as arrogant or acerbic, avoiding a trap into which many fall by keeping a self-deprecating tone.<br />Perelman is probably best known for his literary parodies and commentaries, and these are among the best entries in this volume. Included are his famed treatise on spicy pulp auteur Robert Leslie Bellem's creation Dan Turner, &quot;Somewhere a Roscoe...&quot;; dryly funny observances of a small-town orthopedist's memoirs in &quot;Boy Meets Girl Meets Foot&quot;; and his thoughts on the bug-eyed monster-type science fiction popular in the era, called &quot;Captain Future, Block That Kick.&quot;<br />Which brings me to the best of all, the reason I bought this book and why I would have paid ten times what I did to own it: his loving Raymond Chandler spoof &quot;Farewell, My Lovely Appetizer.&quot; Chandler and Perelman corresponded via letters in the 40's, and the latter knew his subject well. In nine short pages, Perelman affectionately fricassees a great many hard-boiled, first-person, Marlowe-esque PI cliches, as well as sticking brief jabs into plots of James Cain and Dashiell Hammett. This piece is every bit as funny as Neil Simon or Woody Allen's Bogart spoofs, or Ed McBain's deconstruction of Spillane, &quot;Kiss Me, Dudley.&quot; And it's dead-on, too, in its exaggerated way, telling the story of an attractive blonde whose husband had been nearly poisoned to death with a rotten herring. Chandler himself might have written it, if he didn't take himself and his art so seriously.<br />A must-have for humor lovers, buffs of the era, connoisseurs of quality satire, and oddly enough, hard-boiled enthusiasts.ed monster-type science fiction popular in the era, called &quot;Captain Future, Block That Kick.&quot;<br />Which brings me to the best of all, the reason I bought this book and why I would have paid ten times what I did to own it: his loving Raymond Chandler spoof &quot;Farewell, My Lovely Appetizer.&quot; Chandler and Perelman corresponded via letters in the 40's, and the latter knew his subject well. In nine short pages, Perelman affectionately fricassees a great many hard-boiled, first-person, Marlowe-esque PI cliches, as well as sticking brief jabs into plots of James Cain and Dashiell Hammett. This piece is every bit as funny as Neil Simon or Woody Allen's Bogart spoofs, or Ed McBain's deconstruction of Spillane, &quot;Kiss Me, Dudley.&quot; And it's dead-on, too, in its exaggerated way, telling the story of an attractive blonde whose husband had been nearly poisoned to death with a rotten herring. Chandler himself might have written it, if he didn't take himself and his art so seriously.<br />A must-have for humor lovers, buffs of the era, connoisseurs of quality satire, and oddly enough, hard-boiled enthusiasts.	2003-10-09
US	47713962	RQI8F59E4OH0Q	0446361569	432311559	The Name Is Archer	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fine collection from one of the all-time best.	This is a collection of seven short stories by Ross Mac; all are good and several are better than good. Many of the themes present in his later novels are on display here; but here Archer himself is more of a Marlowe-type, wise-cracking PI, as opposed to the subtly more sensitive catalyst he would become. The differences are slight but are those seen in the shift in tone the genre undertook from the 40's when MacDonald began (as Kenneth Millar, then John Ross MacDonald) to his arguable prime in the 60's.<br />I would recommend one of his novels (such as Far Side of the Dollar, my favorite) to someone wanting to try Ross Mac, but these stories are very fine examples of his writing, and are sure to entertain. (Of popular era novelists, I would say only William Campbell Gault is *better* in the short story form than in full-length novel form.)<br />There are similarities between these stories, as there are between Ross Mac's novels, as there are between all novels in the genre, if one is to be honest. But the sameness doesn't detract, if you don't want it to. The thrills are not in the plot, but the technique, as it is with most true masters of form. For example, I don't often hear comments on his dialogue, perhaps because it's less romanticized than is much pulp slang, but its nonetheless strong.<br />Find the Woman- A Hollywood publicity diva's missing daughter and the daughter's soldier husband figure in an intricate mystery with an interesting if unlikely payoff. Written well, the adultery/jealousy themes are there, and the diva's character portrait is most satisfyingly drawn.<br />Gone Girl-  Begins with a burst, then tells the tale of one night of murder in an isolated hotel, and the aftermath the next day, precipitated by a girl trying to escape a relationship with a racketeer.<br />Bearded Lady- The longest, and my least favorite, although still not bad. Ross Mac's familiar themes of a wealthy family and an undercurrent of wrong are transported into the art world, then mixed with a swatch of theft and murder. The title refers to a painting of a woman, which someone defaced by painting a beard over it.<br />Suicide- Archer delves into secrets between sisters, one of whom marries badly and is equally unwise with money. Maybe she is also a murderer. Somewhat typical perhaps, but well-turned and Chandler-esque.<br />Guilt-Edged Blonde- A quite short, merely adequate story of hidden parentage. With its small page count this one never has time to take hold.<br />Sinister Habit- Involved and involving story of jealousy and (of course) murder surrounding a schoolmarm and her eloping with a brutal beatnik. (Yeah, I know, but it's really very good.)<br />Wild Goose Chase- Short, sad tale of a man accused of murder who will not reveal his alibi to protect the woman he was with. Will he get off? Should Archer let him? Are the accused's motives really so pure? If he didn't commit the murder, who did? Ross Mac packs a lot of twists in a brief few pages, but it never seems rushed on its way to a non-traditional ending. A good one.<br />To be complete, following is a list of other Ross Mac Archer short stories not in this volume (Additionally, many of these stories above and below have had several titles, but I believe this listing to be complete):<br />Sleeping Dog- This may be my favorite short Ross Mac story, available in several other places including the highly-recommended Massive Book of Pulp Fiction (not 'Action.')<br />Midnight Blue- A solid outing that can be found in Lew Archer, Private Investigator.<br />Strangers in Town- A collection of three previously unpublished stories, two featuring Archer and one with Joe Rogers, an Archer prototype later re-written to be Archer in 'Find the Woman.' The editor's comments are informative, too.then mixed with a swatch of theft and murder. The title refers to a painting of a woman, which someone defaced by painting a beard over it.<BR>Suicide- Archer delves into secrets between sisters, one of whom marries badly and is equally unwise with money. Maybe she is also a murderer. Somewhat typical perhaps, but well-turned and Chandler-esque.<BR>Guilt-Edged Blonde- A quite short, merely adequate story of hidden parentage. With its small page count this one never has time to take hold.<BR>Sinister Habit- Involved and involving story of jealousy and (of course) murder surrounding a schoolmarm and her eloping with a brutal beatnik. (Yeah, I know, but it's really very good.)<BR>Wild Goose Chase- Short, sad tale of a man accused of murder who will not reveal his alibi to protect the woman he was with. Will he get off? Should Archer let him? Are the accused's motives really so pure? If he didn't commit the murder, who did? Ross Mac packs a lot of twists in a brief few pages, but it never seems rushed on its way to a non-traditional ending. A good one. <br />To be complete, following is a list of other Ross Mac Archer short stories not in this volume (Additionally, many of these stories above and below have had several titles, but I believe this listing to be complete):<BR>Sleeping Dog- This may be my favorite short Ross Mac story, available in several other places including the highly-recommended Massive Book of Pulp Fiction (not 'Action.')<BR>Midnight Blue- A solid outing that can be found in Lew Archer, Private Investigator.<BR>Strangers in Town- A collection of three previously unpublished stories, two featuring Archer and one with Joe Rogers, an Archer prototype later re-written to be Archer in 'Find the Woman.' The editor's comments are informative, too.	2003-10-06
US	47713962	R1ZM6WSOPZOPY9	0939767090	5598141	The Vice Czar Murders	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not a lot tangible going for it, it just works somehow.	Cleve Adams was a respected writer of the hard-boiled school in the 40's, who has come under harsh criticism in recent years for a racist attitude and humorless, dull prose. I can't comment on those knocks, as this is his only work I've read. But I am a big fan of the prolific and famous (infamous?) Robert Leslie Bellem, he of the roscoes that spat ka-chow! And I had heard some good things about this collaboration of the two under the pseudonym of Franklin Charles, so was anxious to read it.<br />The Vice Czar Murders took a while to grab me, and I still can't say why exactly it did, but I enjoyed it. I postulate that the strengths of each writer worked well together. Bellem gave Adams a sense of humor, and Adams provided Bellem a more realistic toughness. Consequently, there is a snappiness to the banter between the principles that Adams likely could not have provided on his own, and more depth to the situations and people than is characteristic in Bellem's oeuvre.<br />However, the hero is still a larger-than-life figure, a muscular but smart guy named William Rock. Rock is about 32, graying a little, and is a special investigator for the DA's office, looking into the vice rackets in an unnamed town that felt like Nevada but was probably California. There's really nothing that separates Rock from any other hard-boiled type, but he is basically honest and likes a dame he plans to marry, if she could figure out her past. See, she doesn't know who her parents are and wonders about the half-million bucks in her bank account. The DA, seedy cops, a wealthy prostitute, Rock's whiny sister, her newshound husband and his unsympathetic Publisher all figure in. Rock-s investigation begins with the questioning of the least stupid-looking showgirl at a club. Then she winds up dead, and Rock is on the run for the rest of the novel, uncovering several more bodies and making a few more of his own. All the fuss is over a missing packet of names which tie together a couple of the characters in the rackets and in a 30-year-old secret. The mystery is not so much about murders, although there is that element; it took a while for even Rock to figure out what precipitated it all. So Rock's quest become simply about surviving long enough to figure out the long-ago pasts of a few of the characters. It's a short novel, and moves quickly. Maybe not believably all the time, but quickly.<br />Compare this to Hammet's Continental Op, and it's found wanting. Weigh it against other early entrants from the Black Mask school, such as Roger Torrey and Raoul Whitfield, and the comparison is more apt. Although the presence of (I assume) Bellem's wry dialogue could make me throw Nebel and Latimer into the pot for comparison's sake.<br />This is perhaps an example of a book being more than the sum of its parts- I can't break down exactly what I enjoyed about this book. I just did, that's all. But it's a pulpy trip down hard-boiled lane.<br />And maybe that's enough of a reason.haracters in the rackets and in a 30-year-old secret. The mystery is not so much about murders, although there is that element; it took a while for even Rock to figure out what precipitated it all. So Rock's quest become simply about surviving long enough to figure out the long-ago pasts of a few of the characters. It's a short novel, and moves quickly. Maybe not believably all the time, but quickly.<br />Compare this to Hammet's Continental Op, and it's found wanting. Weigh it against other early entrants from the Black Mask school, such as Roger Torrey and Raoul Whitfield, and the comparison is more apt. Although the presence of (I assume) Bellem's wry dialogue could make me throw Nebel and Latimer into the pot for comparison's sake.<br />This is perhaps an example of a book being more than the sum of its parts- I can't break down exactly what I enjoyed about this book. I just did, that's all. But it's a pulpy trip down hard-boiled lane.<br />And maybe that's enough of a reason.	2003-09-22
US	47713962	R2HUAOZ4T1ATBH	0948353201	56812230	Halo for Satan	Books	4	3	4	N	N	This sloppiest of Pine novels is still a treat.	In the foreword of his third Pine novel, Halo in Brass, Howard Browne (aka John Evans) states that due to circumstances involving procrastination and relocation, this second Pine novel was written in 5 weeks, from concept to completion. And there are times it feels like it. The plot is not as intricate or baffling, and slightly less care seems to have gone into the words overall. But it is nonetheless enjoyable.<br />Halo For Satan possesses the silliest, most over-the-top plot of any of his five (one uncompleted) Pine novels; it's only a little less so than something out of the Shadow pulps from the same era. The story involves an archbishop, a thinly-veiled Capone character, an international supercriminal and a manuscript supposedly written by Jesus. Everyone wants this document for reasons of their own, most notably because its value had been established in the $25 million range.<br />But &quot;HFS&quot; is at its rapidly-written and hackneyed heart still a Marlowe-esque hard-boiled PI tale, full of murders, sappings, tough talk, tired but honest cops, willing and unwilling and greedy blondes, and plenty of hyperbolic simile.<br />It took Browne until his 4th Pine novel, the late-50's entry entitled A Taste of Ashes, to really write a true NOVEL, commenting legitimately on the human condition in the ways the masters Hammett, Chandler and Ross Mac did. And despite the critical and commercial praise Browne received, he knew  that he was &quot;simply&quot; telling stories in these early Pine novels, admitting he was making a living off of Chandler. But his stuff is great all the same, derivative or not, featuring evocatively written dialogue and first-person narratives, and plots on par with the best (albeit unrealistic) plots of Woolrich and Brackett. If you like any of the names I have mentioned (especially Chandler, who wrote far too little, and Browne copies him better than anyone) you will like Browne.<br />Highly recommended to all PI and pulp fans, and hard-boiled mystery lovers in general.oiled mystery lovers in general.	2003-09-08
US	47713962	R3HTZULDMKE3KZ	0939767082	741570181	42 Days for Murder	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Authentic. Amusing. Hard-boiled. But so what?	I have no doubt Roger Torrey knows what he's writing about. It has the feel of reality, and this original \\"Black Mask Boy\\" was by all accounts as hard-living as he was hard-writing. But 42D4M  just wasn't very interesting, well-scribed or well-structured, compared to the masterpieces of this sub-genre: Red Harvest, Nightmare Town, Solomon's Vineyard, et al.<br />All these stories are about one man entering a corrupt town and taking it on basically by his lonesome. Here it is Reno, a town full of essentially legal dope and subsidized prostitution and easy divorce rackets (the headline comes from the six weeks necessary to establish residency and begin divorce proceedings). This is an interesting setting, bringing to mind the lawless frontiers of the old west in its evocations of the mafia-like criminal organization.<br />But the other stories I mentioned are eventful. This one is not especially so. Not a lot happens until the last 10 pages of this 160-page novel, when the factions engage in two gorily-detailed shootouts, which by the narrator's own admission last all of 10 seconds apiece.<br />A lot of this novel has San Francisco-based PI Shane Connell hiding in a flophouse. There are a lot of people doing a lot of hiding throughout this book. And a lot of characters who contribute little to the plot or to any greater meaning, including a bookworm sidekick who doesn't do much and seems out of place, except for giving Connell opportunity to spout off in a wise manner. And there are a lot of half-explained events. The plot has to do with a man from out east hiring Connell to find out why his wife went there and announced her plans to divorce him and refuses to talk to him. But mostly it consists of skulking around, trying to keep out of sight until all the angles and factions are figured, when it all explodes adequately but too briefly. Some people might find this to be fast-paced. But a lot of short chapters and quick scenes is not a fast pace if nothing really happens. I think there was a problem with the author's plot: the solution of the case and the motive were so inexorably tied together that we could not find out why things were happening the way they were until they were over. That didn't add suspense or interest for me; it merely made me impatient.<br />Additionally, there were lots of typographical errors in the text. Ordinarily that does not bother me; here the sheer number of them proved irksome. I don't know if they existed in the original or if they are the reprinter's fault. Either way, it added an air of slapdashery to a book I was losing patience with anyway. And the back cover gets a plot point wrong, too.<br />Torrey aspires to the screwball toughness of Bellem but comes up short too often, with a clunky tenor to a lot of his dialogue, redundancy to some more. It's rough-and-ready speech, all right, but it should still be poetry. (Chandler, anyone?) An example, describing an innocent-looking but experienced \\"lady\\": \\"She's been father under the barn for eggs than you've been away from the farm.\\" One can understand this phrase, but it lacks a certain something.<br />Still, hard-boiled and funny writers like Bellem, Nebel and Latimer are the most apt comparisons, because Torrey tries so hard to be tough that there is nothing to do but be amused at some of it. His descriptions of his sidekick's ample, been-around-the-block girlfriend are especially harsh, such as when he says he could start a milk route with her, six bottles and one more cow. (Funny, but there's not enough of that kind of stuff in all.)<br />Tough, true, humorous in places, but ultimately unsatisfying.ns. I think there was a problem with the author's plot: the solution of the case and the motive were so inexorably tied together that we could not find out why things were happening the way they were until they were over. That didn't add suspense or interest for me; it merely made me impatient.<br />Additionally, there were lots of typographical errors in the text. Ordinarily that does not bother me; here the sheer number of them proved irksome. I don't know if they existed in the original or if they are the reprinter's fault. Either way, it added an air of slapdashery to a book I was losing patience with anyway. And the back cover gets a plot point wrong, too.<br />Torrey aspires to the screwball toughness of Bellem but comes up short too often, with a clunky tenor to a lot of his dialogue, redundancy to some more. It's rough-and-ready speech, all right, but it should still be poetry. (Chandler, anyone?) An example, describing an innocent-looking but experienced \\"lady\\": \\"She's been father under the barn for eggs than you've been away from the farm.\\" One can understand this phrase, but it lacks a certain something.<br />Still, hard-boiled and funny writers like Bellem, Nebel and Latimer are the most apt comparisons, because Torrey tries so hard to be tough that there is nothing to do but be amused at some of it. His descriptions of his sidekick's ample, been-around-the-block girlfriend are especially harsh, such as when he says he could start a milk route with her, six bottles and one more cow. (Funny, but there's not enough of that kind of stuff in all.)<br />Tough, true, humorous in places, but ultimately unsatisfying.	2003-08-15
US	47713962	R2CJSOLLK80BJ	0939767139	766925992	The Taste of Ashes	Books	5	11	11	N	N	On the short list of the greatest PI novels of all time.	The 4th Paul Pine novel, Browne only wrote this because his editor made him, according to his foreword. And he seems tired of the genre. But far from making this a bad novel, Browne's discomfort gives \\"T of A\\"\\" an unusual self-awareness which heaps on the cynicism and lonely pointlessness of the detective profession without ever crossing into parody or the coy, snide post-modernism that PI writers add today. Browne subtly deconstructs some of the genre's cliches in a Kafka-esque way, as Pine takes on the efficient bureaucracy of a well-to-do, outwardly very clean town near Chicago. In most PI novels, everyone is rude; Browne shows how people can be just as uncooperative to an investigation seeking the truth when theyre college-educated and friendly.<br />When Pine picks up a \\"plaster,\\" or tail, his 1st-person narrative says, \\"How quaint.\\" Passages like that stand out; Pine has seen it all before, again and again. He's so world-weary he's doggedly energetic. He so much didn't want the case an acquaintance's wife asked him to pursue, that eventually he took it because he couldn't quit thinking about it.<br />T of A messes with genre conventions in ways it would be criminal to further reveal: Suffice it to say archetypes such as the good daughter, the bad daughter, a corrupt town, cops, an old rich invalid, and a hot-pants wife are all dealt with in fine fashion. Yet one of the most interesting characters is a little girl Pine meets in the first chapter, a girl who figures into the plot frighteningly. Along the way he has to solve the murders of an heir nobody liked, a man who was not the good husband his wife (nor Pine) thought he was, and a woman who knew too much. The whole town is against him, except for one reporter, but eventually he turns against Pine, too. There are no easy answers in this novel, and the questions aren't ones anybody wants asked.<br />T of A is not necessarily more enjoyable than the other three Pine novels, although it is strictly a finer piece of work, with more characterization, so it achieves more real relevance in its sad poignancy. This is a slower, longer novel than the first three Pines, but never is dull. As with many of the best mysteries of this school, Pine rarely uncovers anything himself, instead serving as a catalyst to get people to reveal their misdeeds merely by his going around trying to uncover them, surviving long enough to put together the pieces. And there are a lot of pieces of shattered lives in this troubled town when everything is brought to light, with Pine doing what he can to soften the blow for nearly everyone but himself and the few remaining scraps of his idealism. Pine had broad, broad shoulders, living by a code of honor he may not even have believed in anymore, but stubbornly upholding its tenets just the same. Very like Marlowe, especially toward Chandler's end, a piercing view into humanity's bitter foibles.<br />At his best, Browne is not as good as Chandler at his best. But of all the thousands of hard-boiled mystery writers ever to put pen to paper, only he, Hammett and Ross MacDonald are worthy of any serious comparison with Chandler at all. So this novel belongs in rare company indeed.<br />Highly recommended.e of work, with more characterization, so it achieves more real relevance in its sad poignancy. This is a slower, longer novel than the first three Pines, but never is dull. As with many of the best mysteries of this school, Pine rarely uncovers anything himself, instead serving as a catalyst to get people to reveal their misdeeds merely by his going around trying to uncover them, surviving long enough to put together the pieces. And there are a lot of pieces of shattered lives in this troubled town when everything is brought to light, with Pine doing what he can to soften the blow for nearly everyone but himself and the few remaining scraps of his idealism. Pine had broad, broad shoulders, living by a code of honor he may not even have believed in anymore, but stubbornly upholding its tenets just the same. Very like Marlowe, especially toward Chandler's end, a piercing view into humanity's bitter foibles.<br />At his best, Browne is not as good as Chandler at his best. But of all the thousands of hard-boiled mystery writers ever to put pen to paper, only he, Hammett and Ross MacDonald are worthy of any serious comparison with Chandler at all. So this novel belongs in rare company indeed.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-08-14
US	47713962	R2Q14KOH8C99VM	0881841757	660908638	The Mean Streets	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	These Streets Are Better Once They Get Meaner.	This is the first Thomas Dewey novel I've read. I learned of him from the Internet, where someone called him a bridge between Raymond Chandler and Ross MacDonald. I guess that's a fair statement: he is a world-weary PI telling his tale in the first-person, plenty tough, but \\"not himself mean,\\" as Chandler's famed essay outlines (and from which this book's title is taken). But this novel from 1954 seems much more similar to a couple of other contemporaries who I will name later. It is not without deficiencies and dated elements (novels dealing with juvenile delinquency always seem to date worse than Chandler-esque PI novels), but is definitely good enough that I want to try more of Dewey's novels.<br />A PI known simply as Mac is hired by the city administration in a burg reminiscent of Chicago to impersonate a teacher and baseball coach, ingratiate himself with some of the local toughs, and find out who is funding and organizing all the gang activity. Things don't go according to plan when Joey, his ace-in-the-hole, gets injured during practice and rejoins his drug-dealing, rumbling inner city pals. Joey idolizes his older brother Louis, a small-time hood with bigger connections, and Mac has to try to break through to him. Things get further complicated when the boy who hit Joey with the pitch turns up dead. There are other characters in the plot I will not reveal.<br />The mystery is not baffling, and there were no real surprises, including the ultimate identity of the gang leader known only as Mr. Smith, but the book held my interest and built in tension throughout. It also got much better once it got tougher about halfway through, when Mac was exposed as being a private cop, was framed with dirty pictures and had his partnership with the city dissolved.<br />The lone man versus vast yet evanescent gang is a situation like Mike Hammer might have found himself in, only Mac is much gentler; I had to wait many pages before he allowed himself to pound Louis, who kept hassling him and acting like big shot. Then Mac did it competently, satisfyingly and repeatedly, enough so that I may call this novel \\"hard-boiled.\\" Other plot elements involving sad, long buried family secrets invoke Lew Archer's recurring themes. These comparisons are not made to say the book is hackneyed or unoriginal; I thought the PI-meets-JD angle made it unusual among books I have read. And while the early stages seemed to lack a sufficient threat, a return to a more murder-and-missing person-related plot actually increased the sense of danger by decreasing the scope.<br />Only near the end does the book falter again slightly, when Joey has his moment of truth, and must choose between hooliganism and another way of life, as represented here by a poster of Joe Dimaggio. It did not detract too severely from the momentum built up, but was a little corny when read today. And the mechanics of the gang, although enjoyable, seemed less than authentic; secret underground meetings where young teens are fed propaganda through a loudspeaker by the unseen Mr. Smith recall old WW2 spy movies or Red Scare thrillers. Downtrodden teens so cynical in every other way and mistrustful of authority would in reality be unlikely candidates for such brainwashing.<br />Never mind that. This is a good book for vintage mystery fans, tough in places, sensitive in others. Hmmm... maybe this *is* a bridge between Chandler and MacDonald.hassling him and acting like big shot. Then Mac did it competently, satisfyingly and repeatedly, enough so that I may call this novel \\"hard-boiled.\\" Other plot elements involving sad, long buried family secrets invoke Lew Archer's recurring themes. These comparisons are not made to say the book is hackneyed or unoriginal; I thought the PI-meets-JD angle made it unusual among books I have read. And while the early stages seemed to lack a sufficient threat, a return to a more murder-and-missing person-related plot actually increased the sense of danger by decreasing the scope.<br />Only near the end does the book falter again slightly, when Joey has his moment of truth, and must choose between hooliganism and another way of life, as represented here by a poster of Joe Dimaggio. It did not detract too severely from the momentum built up, but was a little corny when read today. And the mechanics of the gang, although enjoyable, seemed less than authentic; secret underground meetings where young teens are fed propaganda through a loudspeaker by the unseen Mr. Smith recall old WW2 spy movies or Red Scare thrillers. Downtrodden teens so cynical in every other way and mistrustful of authority would in reality be unlikely candidates for such brainwashing.<br />Never mind that. This is a good book for vintage mystery fans, tough in places, sensitive in others. Hmmm... maybe this *is* a bridge between Chandler and MacDonald.	2003-07-30
US	47713962	RVN7LH4DA0GK1	1557731349	93691631	The Convertible Hearse	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	The Convertible Hearse Takes Too Leisurely A Drive.	This is a smooth, capable PI novel featuring former LA Rams lineman Brock Callahan.<br />For those who don't know, Callahan was one of the first &quot;sympathetic&quot; PIs, rising up, I guess, in the wake of ultra-violent Hammers and world-weary Marlowes. And Callahan is definitely sympathetic. In fact he's a little too nicey-nice. While not exactly a monk (he cheats on his girlfriend after a quarrel), he's just not mean enough or cynical enough to make it gripping. The simple fact that he HAS a steady girlfriend (who's a decorator, for pity's sake) should tell fans of Sam Spade's ilk that Callahan marches to a different, softer beat.<br />A Southern Cal location with mobsters and some street-level violence does not a hard-boiled detective make. He is much too cooperative with the cops, morally sanctimonious at times (yet moreso in other novels), and even a little neurotic in his hand-wringing. He has to be convinced to carry a gun, and vomits after using it. He isn't particularly fast with a quip, nor good in a scrap, surprising for an NFL star. He can't hold his liquor, a fact which would get him kicked out of a great many detective clubs on its own. The characters (except the mobsters) are all fairly well-heeled and polite. He even scolds another character for being a cynic. All of which makes Callahan unusual in the PI field, certainly in the 50's... just not to my tastes.<br />It is unfair to criticize a novel or its characters for merely being what they are; so I offer these statements in a spirit of comparison to help other readers, knowing that my highwater mark in the PI genre is Farewell, My Lovely. And I realize there is a substantial audience for a kinder, gentler hero; but among Gault's writings, I just prefer the somewhat tougher Joe Puma novels, that's all. (They're much tougher to find, too.)<br />This novel has to do with Callahan's girlfriend wanting to buy a Cadillac from Loony Leo, one of those cheesy used car dealers seen on late night TV then and now. It turns out the car is stolen, and soon Leo winds up dead. A lot of people had motive, including some brutal racketeers, and Callahan must sort it all out. He does so, kindly, minding most of his P's and all of his Q's, and trying to stay everybody's friend, even feeling a little bit guilty about tricking the killer (Oh, come on, Brock!) into confessing.<br />There is some good dialogue, a nice touch of light humor, and a few telling descriptions of life in LA such as Chandler might have made. Author Gault outlines the title as a fitting metaphor for urban sprawl and extravagant spending, and although it doesn't carry over into the mystery itself, it forms an interesting backdrop. But there is also some transparent moralizing and a couple of prose passages that come from nowhere, such as the difference between college and pro football teams; these are not long and not gauche, but are distracting from the whole.<br />Gault later went into the more lucrative field of juvenile sports fiction, or he might be better known by modern audiences for his mystery writing. When he came back to writing them in the 80's, Callahan had aged and become even softer, in my view, almost an apologist.<br />Gault did better when he allowed his characters some harsher personas and more cynical foibles. The Convertible Hearse is a quick read, solid but unmemorable fare.n and now. It turns out the car is stolen, and soon Leo winds up dead. A lot of people had motive, including some brutal racketeers, and Callahan must sort it all out. He does so, kindly, minding most of his P's and all of his Q's, and trying to stay everybody's friend, even feeling a little bit guilty about tricking the killer (Oh, come on, Brock!) into confessing.<br />There is some good dialogue, a nice touch of light humor, and a few telling descriptions of life in LA such as Chandler might have made. Author Gault outlines the title as a fitting metaphor for urban sprawl and extravagant spending, and although it doesn't carry over into the mystery itself, it forms an interesting backdrop. But there is also some transparent moralizing and a couple of prose passages that come from nowhere, such as the difference between college and pro football teams; these are not long and not gauche, but are distracting from the whole.<br />Gault later went into the more lucrative field of juvenile sports fiction, or he might be better known by modern audiences for his mystery writing. When he came back to writing them in the 80's, Callahan had aged and become even softer, in my view, almost an apologist.<br />Gault did better when he allowed his characters some harsher personas and more cynical foibles. The Convertible Hearse is a quick read, solid but unmemorable fare.	2003-07-25
US	47713962	R3D8OSAZ0FL7JL	0966347307	373404177	By the Balls: A Novel by Dashiell Loveless (Bowling Alley Murders)	Books	2	4	5	N	Y	Irresistible package surrounds inadequate story.	If only as much effort and thought had gone into the writing of this book as into the design, Ugly Town might really have had something. The covers and illustrations, the intro pages- heck, even the size and weight- are darn near perfect in exactly the retro way they intended. But the writers have a background which includes scripting comics for Dark Horse, and that's how this reads.<br />It's a meatless tribute to all things hard-boiled, featuring prose written in a spare (much too spare) style. Descriptions are sorely lacking, and the dialogue, while it talks &quot;tough,&quot; is un-creative.<br />There is really only a couple of instances of good dialogue. Here is one: &quot;There's nothing like a mourning widow. And [she] was nothing like a mourning widow. More like a morning window, and I could see right through her.&quot; Not classic stuff, but if the rest had at least attempted this style the book could have attained a kind of punny vitality. But no. It doesn't attempt real spoofery, and it certainly is not authentic.<br />It's like boys playing in sandbox much too vast for them. Descriptions of drinks and cigars give the impression that the authors just wanted to feel naughty, while a scene where the hero talks his way out of being killed by a thug is especially contrived, obvious and amateurish. Other aspects detract as well, but suffice it to say, Red Harvest this is not.<br />I really can't see true pulp fans being fooled by this, but give it a try... after you've read Chandler and Hammett and James Cain and Paul Cain and Whitfield and Burnett and Daly and Browne and Brown and Huggins and Brackett and Cave and Whittington and Fischer and Ballard and Bellem and Latimer and Martin and MacDonald and Gault and Spicer and Miller and Dewey and Woolrich and Nebel and Gardner and Adams and Davis and Spillane and Kane and Chase and Albert and Halliday and... you see?<br />There are much better out there. Lots of 'em. Then check back with the authors of this book after they've gotten some practice. Maybe they should check the above list, too.after they've gotten some practice. Maybe they should check the above list, too.	2003-07-24
US	47713962	R3KW2H4ZT5UTH8	0939767120	684722857	Halo in Brass	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Another very good Chandler pastiche from Browne.	There were several (and probably more than several) Chandler imitators in the wake of Marlowe's stratospheric rise in the late 30's and 40's. Howard Browne's Paul Pine, a cynical, good-hearted PI based in Chicago, may be the best of the bunch. This is the third Pine novel, following Halo in Blood and Halo For Satan. All of these first three are of roughly equal- and high- quality, but this one is a little smoother overall.<br />There is a less confusing plot than in Halo in Blood, even though Browne tried to make it \\"impossible\\" to deduce the murderer, according to the author's brief intro. And I didn't guess the culprit, but I don't think it was \\"impossible\\" to someone who pays closer attention than I do. I enjoy the dialogue and style foremost, and everything else secondarily. For what it's worth, I think less of mysteries based on hidden or questionable identities than of other formulas. (It probably read like dynamite when it was published.) Skip that little criticism: there's lots of good, pseudo-Chandlerian dialogue in 'Brass,' and it feels less forced than it did sometimes in 'Blood.' Browne knew that's what paid the bills in those days, and that's why I seek his books out today.<br />As the book opens, our hero and narrator is consulting with a conservative old married couple in Lincoln, Nebraska. It seems their daughter moved to Chicago two years ago, and about one year back quit writing to them. They're worried about her, naturally, and hire Pine, who waives most of his fee for the friendly folks. He begins poking around such dark places as there are in Lincoln and picks up the girl's trail at a local bawdy house. From there (after one murder, the aftermath of which is not dealt with) he heads back to Chicago and continues searching in various night clubs and apartments, both high-rent and low-rent, and questions the girl's circle of close friends. How close were her friends? More on that in a moment.<br />It all wraps up in the time-honored gather-up-all-the-suspects-and-some-law-boys-in-a-rich-old-gentleman's-parlor method. Maybe Pine could have wrapped it up differently, or sooner; maybe he played it the best way. At any rate, the killer's facade cracks in front of everyone, and another case is solved.<br />A lot of people may not enjoy certain aspects of this book, as it deals extensively with lesbianism. Nothing explicit, mind you, but some may not like the subject matter at all, while others may find the 40's attitudes portrayed toward that persuasion quite offensive in this more \\"enlightened\\" age.<br />Whatever. It's a well-written trip to yesteryear, and as close to Chandler's form as you will find anywhere.the-suspects-and-some-law-boys-in-a-rich-old-gentleman's-parlor method. Maybe Pine could have wrapped it up differently, or sooner; maybe he played it the best way. At any rate, the killer's facade cracks in front of everyone, and another case is solved.<br />A lot of people may not enjoy certain aspects of this book, as it deals extensively with lesbianism. Nothing explicit, mind you, but some may not like the subject matter at all, while others may find the 40's attitudes portrayed toward that persuasion quite offensive in this more \\"enlightened\\" age.<br />Whatever. It's a well-written trip to yesteryear, and as close to Chandler's form as you will find anywhere.	2003-07-23
US	47713962	RV855NLH96706	0948353112	929715694	Halo in blood	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Excellent hard-boiled mystery in the Chandler style.	Thank goodness for the Mammoth Book of Pulp Fiction. I bought it to read the Robert Leslie Bellem story, but without it I might never have given the novels of Frederic Brown and W.T. Ballard and William Campbell Gault a chance. Nor a writer named Howard Browne, whose contribution, So Dark For April, told of a PI named Paul Pine. It was a short, obviously derivative story, but was well-written in the weary, cynical, wise-acre way I look for, so I began to seek out more of Browne's books.<br />There aren't many, and even fewer are affordable. Halo in Blood is his first, followed by Halo for Satan and Halo in Brass. I can't say whether this is his best, because I haven't read the others yet. (Although A Taste of Ashes seems his most critically successful, I hear it is of a different, more late-50s style.) But this is a good one.<br />When he first met Chandler, I read, Browne told him that he had been making a living off of him for years. So Browne did not even bother to hide the fact that his creation is a Marlowe wannabe, moved to Chicago. There are a few other small differences, but Pine is basically Marlowe. Chandler treated Browne with some scorn, as was his custom with competitors, but probably moreso because he did not appreciate the attempted cloning.  Chandler needn't have worried; his writings were strictly better. Browne's characters are not as well-defined, at least in this initial offering, his descriptions of place aren't as atmospheric, and occasionally things seem forced. But it is readers like me who win in their perhaps-rivalry, because Chandler did not write very many novels, and four nicely-turned knockoffs sound like a good (if not quite *as* good) thing to me.<br />About Halo in Blood: It begins with Pine being late for a meeting with a rich client because he breaks up a funeral procession and gets caught at a burial in which a John Doe is buried with twelve priests officiating. His rich client has a beautiful, wild stepdaughter (don't they all?), who is seeing a gambler. The client wants Pine to break up the little affair. Then the gambler gets bumped. A mobster, cops, assorted thugs, family scandals, a 25-year old crime in San Diego, false identities, lots of lying and sapping and several more murders ensue before Pine unravels all the threads and ties them all back together again, including the opening scene of the funeral. I won't really comment further on the plot. It is good enough; but plots are the *least* interesting things to me in hard-boiled mysteries.<br />I suppose it plays fair with the clues. I suppose a better mystery solver could have guessed the culprit(s) if they paid rapt attention to every word in the book's twisty pages. There were rather too many characters and identity switches and even too many deaths for me to keep logical track of, but that's not why I read these kinds of things anyway: I read them for the arch simile-and-wisecrack-laden dialogue, and Browne handles that aspect quite well.<br />Case closed.<br />See also: the authors and books previously mentioned; Roy Huggins; Leigh Brackettwho is seeing a gambler. The client wants Pine to break up the little affair. Then the gambler gets bumped. A mobster, cops, assorted thugs, family scandals, a 25-year old crime in San Diego, false identities, lots of lying and sapping and several more murders ensue before Pine unravels all the threads and ties them all back together again, including the opening scene of the funeral. I won't really comment further on the plot. It is good enough; but plots are the *least* interesting things to me in hard-boiled mysteries.<br />I suppose it plays fair with the clues. I suppose a better mystery solver could have guessed the culprit(s) if they paid rapt attention to every word in the book's twisty pages. There were rather too many characters and identity switches and even too many deaths for me to keep logical track of, but that's not why I read these kinds of things anyway: I read them for the arch simile-and-wisecrack-laden dialogue, and Browne handles that aspect quite well.<br />Case closed.<br />See also: the authors and books previously mentioned; Roy Huggins; Leigh Brackett	2003-07-15
US	47713962	R3SEK5MZHQHM5I	0445409061	501701270	You Bet Your Life	Books	2	11	12	N	N	Not a good gamble this time around.	The best of these Toby Peters mysteries (such as Never Cross a Vampire and to a lesser extent Murder on the Yellow Brick Road) are the ones where the celebrity clients have something to do, or where the proceedings at least parallel some aspect of their lives. This is not one of those, joining The Man Who Shot Lewis Vance as a novel where the supposed star, this time the Marx Brothers, are only the deus ex machina.<br />There are other ways this novel is a departure for the series, and in every way it deviates from the norm is a way in which it fails. Perhaps that is merely happenstance, but I think the changes themselves are to blame, as opposed to any faulty ideas or execution.<br />This novel is set in Chicago, allowing interaction with Mayor Daley and mobsters such as Frank Nitti. The plot involves Toby trying to get Chico Marx out of a situation arisen from gambling debts, which he says are not his.<br />There is notably less humor in this book than in previous adventures. It is freezing cold, Toby is perpetually ill and in pain, and meets a succession of characters that are sad or pitiful without ever achieving much poignancy. And as for Toby himself, his pathetic lifestyle is palatable when the comedic nature of it is trumped up; here it is more serious, almost maudlin at times. In addition, though these books are modeled after Chandler, they've never really managed the cynical wit or wry dialogue; so the humor is missed even more sorely here.<br />My overriding complaint with this book is this: Why have the Marx Brothers in your story if they're not going to act like the Marx Brothers? I understand that they were not the same men as their stage-and-screen personas, and were even a little frustrated by inability to transcend them. But I maintain that the injection of a little of their subversive craziness into a project which bears their image is only right, and would have improved this book immensely. It goes back to the first paragraph of this review: give the Hollywood stars something to do, or at least comment on their life and livelihood through the action. (I would have loved to read Groucho flustering a room full of corrupt cops with trademark one-liners and non-sequitirs. And I am likewise intrigued by a mental picture of Harpo using his giant Duck Soup scissors to cut a bunch of mobsters' ties, then soaking his feet in a vat of their beer.)<br />Only at the end, after the wrap-up, does Toby check in with any members of the usual supporting cast, and then only by phone. Too bad; it sounds like some interesting events had been happening to them back in LA.<br />There are nice things about the book, too, though comparatively few: Ian Fleming makes a welcome cameo, rescuing Toby in a manner not unlike his fictional creation might have, and we also meet a diseased, demented Al Capone early in the story. The \\"love interest\\" (I hate that term, because they're seldom more than warm bodies) could have been an interesting character, but she is little more in these pages than the standard harlot with a heart of semi-gold.<br />The book is unfortunately not enough redeemed by a thoughtful solution. Chicago in this period of history was a unique place, but I still think the mystery could have played out the same almost anywhere. Kaminsky likely had a mob story in him and had no way better to use it.<br />Deal yourself out of this hand, at least until you've read some of the others in the Toby Peters series.the Hollywood stars something to do, or at least comment on their life and livelihood through the action. (I would have loved to read Groucho flustering a room full of corrupt cops with trademark one-liners and non-sequitirs. And I am likewise intrigued by a mental picture of Harpo using his giant Duck Soup scissors to cut a bunch of mobsters' ties, then soaking his feet in a vat of their beer.)<br />Only at the end, after the wrap-up, does Toby check in with any members of the usual supporting cast, and then only by phone. Too bad; it sounds like some interesting events had been happening to them back in LA.<br />There are nice things about the book, too, though comparatively few: Ian Fleming makes a welcome cameo, rescuing Toby in a manner not unlike his fictional creation might have, and we also meet a diseased, demented Al Capone early in the story. The \\"love interest\\" (I hate that term, because they're seldom more than warm bodies) could have been an interesting character, but she is little more in these pages than the standard harlot with a heart of semi-gold.<br />The book is unfortunately not enough redeemed by a thoughtful solution. Chicago in this period of history was a unique place, but I still think the mystery could have played out the same almost anywhere. Kaminsky likely had a mob story in him and had no way better to use it.<br />Deal yourself out of this hand, at least until you've read some of the others in the Toby Peters series.	2002-12-20
US	47713962	R2VSKRIQETYB5Y	0375415009	956020368	Raymond Chandler: Collected Stories (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	136	140	N	Y	The real deal.	I was dubious. Not of the quality of Chandler's writings, but of the veracity of this book's claim to collect ALL of his short fiction. But it does. From Blackmailers Don't Shoot to The Pencil, with everything in between, this has them all. This also includes three that are available nowhere else: Professor Bingo's Snuff, The Bronze Door and English Summer. These last three really do not really qualify as pulpy mysteries (or even as typical Chandler, although his imprint in them is still distinct), but I had been seeking them for a while and bought the book for them alone anyway. And because, well, Chandler could write a grocery list and I'd buy it to read. He's that good.<br />For those who already know Chandler, that will not come as any surprise. He took up the torch which Hammett lit, toward making detective fiction respectable literature. And no one outside of Hemingway has been more influential or distinctive, in any style, anywhere, ever. And no one has ever been more entertaining. Chandler wrote in an extremely visceral, visual, atmospheric way, and made the language sit up, salute and perform pirouettes. His cynical California Gothic prose defined postwar America and combined intelligentsia with slang and squalor with romanticism into a new form that has not been exceeded. I could ramble on indefinitely, but I hope this paragraph has been some small yet clear indication of the fact that I happen to like Raymond Chandler's writing.<br />The three previously unpublished stories were treats, to see Chandler working in ways I was unaccustomed to. One was even subtitled 'A Gothic Romance'; that made me a little nervous, but is only a romance in the sense that The Big Sleep is a romance. All three deal with murder- one at a quaint but decaying English manor, one via a magical door to nowhere, and one by an invisible man. You read that last part correctly. Chandler delves into fantasy in these pages; and I was delighted. But for those of you passionately inclinedto LA noir, don't worry: as unconventional as these stories are, they still retain most of the basic elements found in his other crime stories.<br />In Chandler's first Black Mask story, Blackmailers Don't Shoot, his style was present, but it was somewhat forced and imitative; he wore the attitude like a coat, keeping it a separate and distant thing. By just a couple of stories later, the attitude had become a second skin. Chandler had cemented his voice and begun to truly inhabit the world of his creations. Thereby we too are liberated, and transported, into his rich, dark, slinky and dangerous territory. By the late 30's everything was in place: atmosphere, language, attitude, et al. Raymond Chandler was combining (cannibalizing, he called it) two of the stories in this volume with new material to become his first and most famous novel, The Big Sleep. And we can all be thankful for that.<br />But it begins here. Some of these stories don't use the ingenious metaphors he later became renowned for, some are overly confusing, some aren't even great mysteries. (Chandler himself would tell you he was not the best plotter, giving that acclaim to Woolrich, but plots were secondary to Chandler anyway.) Still, these are all great stories, of the coolest era in history and of the last great rugged individualist. In some stories he is called Dalmas. In some Carmady. In some he is no one in particular. And yet they are all his lasting creation Marlowe under the surface, all *Chandler* himself in fact, using the crime story form to express his own philosophies of life. While never failing to blow your socks off with his skill.<br />For those who don't know Chandler this may not be the place to start. For that I recommend Farewell, My Lovely or The Little Sister, both among Chandler's most atmospheric and funny novels. But I do recommend starting down these mean streets which Marlowe himself prowled. You will (or should) become hooked, and may eventually wind up back at this collection anyway, where you can see the writer- and his characters- develop, and see grains of the novels his stories would become.<br />If you have never read Chandler before, you have a vast world newly open to you. Lucky you.<br />If you have read him before, welcome back. Curl up and stay awhile.<br />P.S. The introduction to this volume breaks no new ground. Don't get me wrong, it's OK. But this is An Historic Publishing Event, so I was expecting something a little more official and substantive. A small gripe.	2002-11-30
US	47713962	R2I97CKXX7P84U	0762406909	338312731	Crosswords Challenge #11	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Among the best for puzzle fans.	Crossword puzzles in this series are some of my mom's favorites.<br />They are  wire-bound, making it easier to lay them flat and get down to business. But she would prefer they be laid out on single pages, and have larger type.<br />The puzzles are challenging without being overwhelming. These are roughly comparable to those found in the NY Times and LA Times, in both level of difficulty and in their design.<br />A pretty safe bet for fans, but no 5th star for the reasons above.	2002-09-13
US	47713962	RK25A506P9MCM	0091228204	871539713	The Big Kiss-off of 1944: A Jack LeVine Mystery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hardboiled 40's PI thriller meets 70's political conspiracy.	Set in the WWII 40's, written in the Watergate 70's, when detective fiction enjoyed a renaissance, this book is full  of wonderful wisecracks. Maybe it's a little too self-conscious, and a little smutty for my tastes. But it is very clever. The author also has enjoyed a successful, if intermittent Hollywood screenwriting career, most notably penning Blazing Saddles.<br />The plot has to do with the daughter of a prominent banker (and significant contributer to the Republicans) being blackmailed by sources unknown. She had made a blue film earlier in her life and her father was having the squeeze put on him. In the course of his investigation, Private Peeper Jack LeVine tracks the corruption all the way up to FDR's staff. And interestingly for the events happening in Washington near the time it was written, the Democrats are portrayed as the far more nefarious group in this book.<br />The plot was refreshingly large in scope but at times unconvincing. It seems unlikely LeVine could get away with much of the stuff he does here. And the ending was somehow pat. The mystery elements were lacking after the halfway-point, making it play out somehow flatly. These are not necessarily meant to be harsh criticisms; I liked the book. It just didn't follow the form exactly, that's all.<br />Because this sort of thing must, of course, be compared to Chandler. Bergman himself would probably encourage the association. And it feels remarkably close, closer than anything else I know of. But this lacks the depth, substituting pith for real feeling. Here the attitude is put on like a shoulder holster. Chandler was writing from his heart, to come to grips with a world that seemed unspeakably cruel to him. Any humor injected was not the point, but a bonus. BK-Oof1944 is foremost comedy, attached to the PI skeleton to give LeVine opportunity to utilize the one-liners that make it so. The result is lots of fun, but nowhere near the classic status of the novels it tries hard to be like.<br />Still, almost-Chandler is better than just about anything else around.<br />P.S. This is much better than either of its sequels to date./>Still, almost-Chandler is better than just about anything else around.<br />P.S. This is much better than either of its sequels to date.	2002-09-12
US	47713962	R2DIMHR8N400J6	0939767031	619215996	Blue Murder	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Of all the pulp novels Ive read, this may be the pulpiest.	More willing dames, more violence, more doublecrosses, more plot twists, more death, more coincidences and a quicker pace than just about anything else out there.<br />Here's a brief outline:<br />Intro<br />Slang (throughout)<br />Sex<br />Fight<br />Sex<br />Doublecross<br />Plot twist<br />Violence<br />Plot twist<br />Sex<br />Murder<br />Murder<br />Doublecross<br />Coincidence<br />Violence<br />Plot twist<br />Sex<br />Violence<br />Plot twist<br />Coincidence<br />Death<br />Doublecross<br />Doublecross<br />Plot twist<br />Violence<br />Plot twist<br />Coincidence<br />Death<br />Solution<br />Sex<br />Get the picture? Fun trash.	2002-08-22
US	47713962	R3K1UKDZGXFKQO	0939767031	619215996	Blue Murder	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Nobody does it like Bellem. Maybe nobody wanted to.	First things first: this is not a Dan Turner book. It is a Duke Pizzatello book. That said, Bellem still does embellish every page with his trademark supersonic slang. And the persona of Duke may be even more hard-boiled than Dan, if a little less intelligent.<br />However, this book is quite unpleasant, dealing with rampant adultery, VERY graphic murders, and `operations.' (Duke gets into so much trouble basically to cover up a past indiscretion.) Yes, he is certainly a typical detective antihero, only without even Dan's limited conscience, nor Sam Spade's self-awareness. So the almost-campy, overwritten tone makes the grimy topics explored seem even sleazier here, without either the irony a deeper writer would have injected (Chandler, anyone?) or any particular courage or authenticity to its convictions (a la Hammett). This is merely under-the-counter men's sensationalism. He is perhaps closest in feel to Mike Hammer, minus the kill-crazed vendettas. Duke winds up with about 4 women per night, sometimes the same one twice. (He makes Wilt Chamberlain seem like a prude!) Just once, just for kicks, I'd like to read Bellem describe a woman's nose. Or elbows. Anything but her \\"creamy white thighs,\\" etc.<br />Bellem's limitations as a writer are more easily overlooked in short story form, or when the events portrayed toe a line closer to comedic. In short novel form, with subject matter this dark, it's hard to get excited about his fun turns of phrase. You may only smile faintly, as opposed to howling or pumping a fist. (You mean I'm the only one who does that?)<br />The mystery is appropriately twisty, which is not to say it is unpredictable; intuition may take you a long way toward solving the case. (I'm one of the world's worst mystery-guessers and I figured the culprit by Chapter 3.) Also, there is very little exposition, and little to no character development. Duke just hustles about town to set up the next roscoe fight or harlot or to give Bellem an opportunity totry matching Chandler's gift for simile.<br />When Bellem is good he's very good, to paraphrase Mae West, but when he's bad he's not necessarily better.<br />P.S. I wholeheartedly recommend High Adventure #60, if you can find it, and if you can't find it, keep looking, because it's tremendous, and you won't feel like you need a bath after reading it.	2002-08-14
US	47713962	R3RL30ENUFIGVJ	0380814676	109367217	Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Quite the enjoyable tome.	Something for everyone. Jokes about the insipidly unfunny and frightening Carrot-Top in the same space as intelligent, dry wit about assonance. Humor involving bodily functions near an essay on the unlikelihood of shared motivation by terrorist cabals in modern action films.<br />Get this book. It possesses the highest laugh quotient of any book I know.<br />Best part: It's 98% Seagal and Van Damme-Free!	2002-08-12
US	47713962	RPNLDXRU5SC0A	0786404795	440339884	Keep Watching the Skies! American Science Fiction Movies of the Fifties (2 Volumes in 1)	Books	4	12	17	N	Y	Okay, okay, I agree with the praise. BUT...	Unquestionably researched, undeniably well-thought out, unsurpassed in scope, and intelligently written.<br />Yet I think Mr. Warren is a little too harsh with many of the movies and people he speaks of, especially those in Volume 2. It's like kicking a diseased puppy to heap criticism on a movie like Invisible Invaders or The Astounding She-Monster. I mean, come on! He sees the camp appeal of Cat-Women of the Moon, but not of The Hideous Sun Demon? It seems like an apples to apples comparison to me.<br />Aw, well, to each his own. No two people will agree on everything.<br />Although Mr. Warren does come off as downright curmudgeonly quite often, I forgive him. He must be cut considerable slack for being man enough to admit in print to the rare charms of Yvette Vickers.	2002-08-12
US	47713962	R1IT56UOGZP0HL	0879722320	252773042	Robert Leslie Bellems Dan Turner Hollywood Detective	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Like othing-nay else your peepers have ever glimmed.	One cannot review a collection by Robert Leslie Bellem; one has to review the whole of his work.<br />Bellem is many things: inventive, energetic, fun, exhausting. Some might say bad. But like Hong Kong Cinema and whatever kind of rock music you listened to to rebel against your elders, Bellem's Dan Turner saucy, hard-boiled pulp stories transcend such petty, bourgeois categorizations at good or bad. They are entertainment at its purest, most raw and visceral.<br />Perhaps he was a hack. After all, he cranked out a million words a year by some accounts. He possessed none of the depth of Chandler, Hammett, Ross Mac, not even of Spillane or Gardiner. Then again he is more compulsively readable than Stockbridge or Daly or any of the others except Chandler.  His voice was unique, creating a genre parody only a few years after the genre itself had been created. 40's slang has been called the most vibrant language since The Bard's time. And Bellem used his share of it. Although there is none of Chandler's artistry and care with language and simile (Bellem uses the language like a blunt, inexact science, formulated like an equation to get a rise from readers) it is a wonder to behold, all the same. Some say he was spoofing; others merely that he was lousy. But I tend to think he knew what he was doing. It takes talent to write as he did, and so what if he doesn't delve into the human psyche?<br />What exactly are his stories like? Well, Dan Turner investigates crimes involving drugs, murder, blackmail and adultery among the elite Babylonians of Hollywood. Only he's not a detective or a PI, he's a skulk or an orb for hire. And he doesn't do leg work because he doesn't have legs; he has sticks or pins. And he torches gaspers, sticking them in his pan or his mush. Women are wrens or pigeons, seldom wear a whole lot and every dame in Turner's universe has all the equipment wink-wink, nudge, nudge. He doesn't call people on the phone, he rings and yodels. Roscoes belch ka-chow and people are bumped by lead pills in acts of killery. He finds one or two per story dead as six buckets of fish bait. Turner would not say, \\"The heck you say!\\" He would say, \\"The heck you utter!\\" Bellem is not above bludgeoning readers with alliteraton. And, come on, the guy actually uses pig latin! How can you not like stuff like this?<br />Critics might say that once you've read one Dan Turner plot, you've read them all, or that once you've read six stories, you've read every turn of phrase in Bellem's arsenal. There is an element of truth to that, in the same way there is an element of truth to say Speed was similar to Die Hard. But I watch them each and every time they're on TV and don't grow weary. And I will continue to seek out Bellem fiction.<br />Bellem wrote primarily for the \\"spicy\\" pulps, much frowned-on in the 30's and eventually done away with. At his most prurient Bellem feels fairly scummy. On average he is less so that Spillane. Only one in this collection feels like it was meant solely for the lonely, sweaty under-the-counter market. Although Dan Turner demonstrates his way with the ladies and shows he knows how sometime-heroes make use of ellipses...<br />Okay, I'm back. And no, I didn't. But I trust you get the idea. Anyway, a faint sense of yuckiness keeps me from bestowing this book a fifth star.<br />But I heartily recommend it, if you can find it, and any other Bellem stories you can dish out your hard-earned geetus for, get your mitts on and glim.d people are bumped by lead pills in acts of killery. He finds one or two per story dead as six buckets of fish bait. Turner would not say, \\"The heck you say!\\" He would say, \\"The heck you utter!\\" Bellem is not above bludgeoning readers with alliteraton. And, come on, the guy actually uses pig latin! How can you not like stuff like this?<br />Critics might say that once you've read one Dan Turner plot, you've read them all, or that once you've read six stories, you've read every turn of phrase in Bellem's arsenal. There is an element of truth to that, in the same way there is an element of truth to say Speed was similar to Die Hard. But I watch them each and every time they're on TV and don't grow weary. And I will continue to seek out Bellem fiction.<br />Bellem wrote primarily for the \\"spicy\\" pulps, much frowned-on in the 30's and eventually done away with. At his most prurient Bellem feels fairly scummy. On average he is less so that Spillane. Only one in this collection feels like it was meant solely for the lonely, sweaty under-the-counter market. Although Dan Turner demonstrates his way with the ladies and shows he knows how sometime-heroes make use of ellipses...<br />Okay, I'm back. And no, I didn't. But I trust you get the idea. Anyway, a faint sense of yuckiness keeps me from bestowing this book a fifth star.<br />But I heartily recommend it, if you can find it, and any other Bellem stories you can dish out your hard-earned geetus for, get your mitts on and glim.	2002-08-01
US	47713962	R2409R16F33956	0939767325	799078117	No Good from a Corpse	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	"No Good" Is Great; The Rest Cannot Quite Match Up.	I began this review months ago, I really did, just after I began reading this compilation. It stirred me so much that I could barely wait for the next page. You see, hard-boiled detective fiction is to me as good as it gets. Not from johnny-come-lately postmodernists typing on laptop computers from houseboats, but the true-blue mean-street 40's dime detective stuff of Hammett and Chandler and Woolrich. But especially Chandler.<br />I had known of Leigh Brackett from her science fiction contributions, knew she could crack wise with the best of them from her movie scripts such as Rio Lobo (and of course, The Big Sleep). But I had never read any of her noir writing. Desperate for some California crime gothic, I bought this book.<br />I will say Brackett is the only person I know of to have sections of dialogue as good as Raymond Chandler without slavishly imitating him. I had a smile on my face all the way through the title story. But remember how I said I began this review months ago? It has taken me this long to get through the short stories which follow.<br />Far from being bad, yet not approaching classic status either, they suffer mostly from lacking a single, distinctive voice. Hammett's Continental Op was an untouchable man speaking in clipped phrases. Chandler had Marlowe and his romantic cynicism as a unifying presence in his canon. The title story of this book had a Marlowe-like character. But the others in No Good From a Corpse are all over the map.<br />Brackett lacks the pure descriptive power of Chandler; in the last story Brackett spoke of the protagonist's \\"hard green eyes\\" what seemed like twenty times. There are also none of the quiet moments when we learn how Marlowe feels, some of his fallen-star philosophy, which are why Chandler's books are novels and these are pulp stories. In place of true feeling are scenes where characters who know one another very well each go on at length about various possibilities, then beat each other senseless. The fights are well done, but it seems a little like Brackett's trying too hard to be too hard-boiled.<br />With Chandler we could kind of tell who was lying because they clammed. In Brackett stories, the guilty are as likely to offer postulates as the cops. In fact, they likely have a frame-up or two plotted in case their first alibi doesn't take.<br />When she does try to actually imitate Chandler's style, it doesn't work. Here's an example: Chandler might say a gunsel's shoulder's were \\"a little narrower than City Hall.\\" Brackett says in this book: \\"a little narrower- but not quite- than City Hall.\\" It's as if she did not trust her readers to grasp the hyperbole; and when you think about it, hers is the more hyperbolic statement anyway.<br />What else? Brackett's heroes get beat up. A lot. They seem never to be in control of a situation in the way Marlowe or Spade or the Continental Op or even Hammer were.<br />These stories also rely on coincidence and happenstance to the point of flabbergasting a reader. Cars crash when they are needed to crash; people fall when they are needed to fall, that sort of thing.<br />Still, who cares? These are minor quibbles, and I list them only to show why this is deserving of four stars instead of five. This is the genuine article, 40's noir, hard-bitten as it gets, with great titles from a bygone era, like \\"The Misfortune Teller.\\" Oh, happy happy. If you are a fan I would recommend snapping this up, because who knows how long it will be before these stories see print again?s are well done, but it seems a little like Brackett's trying too hard to be too hard-boiled.<br />With Chandler we could kind of tell who was lying because they clammed. In Brackett stories, the guilty are as likely to offer postulates as the cops. In fact, they likely have a frame-up or two plotted in case their first alibi doesn't take.<br />When she does try to actually imitate Chandler's style, it doesn't work. Here's an example: Chandler might say a gunsel's shoulder's were \\"a little narrower than City Hall.\\" Brackett says in this book: \\"a little narrower- but not quite- than City Hall.\\" It's as if she did not trust her readers to grasp the hyperbole; and when you think about it, hers is the more hyperbolic statement anyway.<br />What else? Brackett's heroes get beat up. A lot. They seem never to be in control of a situation in the way Marlowe or Spade or the Continental Op or even Hammer were.<br />These stories also rely on coincidence and happenstance to the point of flabbergasting a reader. Cars crash when they are needed to crash; people fall when they are needed to fall, that sort of thing.<br />Still, who cares? These are minor quibbles, and I list them only to show why this is deserving of four stars instead of five. This is the genuine article, 40's noir, hard-bitten as it gets, with great titles from a bygone era, like \\"The Misfortune Teller.\\" Oh, happy happy. If you are a fan I would recommend snapping this up, because who knows how long it will be before these stories see print again?	2002-06-17
US	47713962	REHC6S0K7AESC	0520218485	378708500	Double Indemnity: The Complete Screenplay	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	A brief tangential rant.	Nearly everyone who is likely to view this page knows and loves the movie, and would most likely prefer watching it to reading it. This leaves devoted fans of Wilder and Chandler to consider it, as well as perhaps students of the form.<br />The screenplay itself is an unquestioned masterpiece, and has not even the movie's very very few faults (poor acting by secondary characters, etc.). So I will limit my comments to my assertion that this edition GREATLY underestimates the contributions of Chandler, going so far as to paint him as a pasty fussbudget ignorant of the craft of writing. Not true, bud, not by a long shot.<br />Wilder and Chandler got along like cats and dogs. That's no secret. Yet while Chandler had his faults, Wilder seemed to live to antagonize him, and quite uncharitably described him in some comments reprinted here. Saying how the married Chandler envied Wilder for \\"having all the pretty girls at Paramount\\" is one example of how cheap and childish the director's opinion of his co-writer was, as stated in this edition, quoting Wilder's bio. Either Wilder or Meyers had some crude bias against Chandler, if the introduction of this tome is to be believed at all. Because it's not even an accurate presentation of what Wilder really felt, as quoted in Chandler's own hit-and-miss bio written by Tom Hiney.<br />Anyway, much of the *structure* of the screenplay- the flashbacks, the additional scenes, the ebb and flow- is Wilder's tremendous savvy. But the things film historians seem to treasure above all else in this movie are the rapid-fire, crudely poetic, vernacular dialogue, as well as the feeling of cynical decay wrapped around the doomed couple's whole misbegotten endeavor like a shroud. And for those, I propose, Chandler must be given the majority of the credit. His novels are too sad and complex and perfect, providing ample evidence that he could not have been the doofus this book portrays.<br />There's my speech. Take it for what it's worth. The book is a good buy for serious students. But Chandler fans will be ticked off.is a good buy for serious students. But Chandler fans will be ticked off.	2002-05-02
US	47713962	R1LZVBBG6QI26H	0312513941	393711777	The Man Who Shot Lewis Vance (Toby Peters Mystery)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Libro Bravo!	The Man Who Shot Lewis Vance is a fun book. But it is not among the very best in the Toby Peters series. This is due in large part to the fact that the Duke was barely in it. I know this series is not really *about* Hollywood stars of the 40's; it's about slovenly PI Toby Peters and his comical cast of misfits. But usually the stars are not just window dressing, either. This time, the Duke had naught but a glorified cameo. If it were a film, he would fire his agent. In fact, Charlie Chaplin had a much meatier role than John Wayne.<br />That said, the portrayal of Duke was respectful. Far more respectful than it could have been, given his larger-than-life image and the subtly politicized subject matter.<br />The mystery itself is pretty good until the solution, which seemed implausible, though the motive was somewhat thought-provoking, even touching. I had better say no more than that, except to add that once the culprit was revealed, the machinations seemed a little protracted and the book a tad padded, even at its short length. And we learn Peters had figured it out a bit earlier; he may have endangered lives by not acting when he first suspected.<br />Plus, there is a sex scene inserted into the mix. Toby Peters mysteries always have one. They are never exploitative, but often seem out of place. Especially this one, with a \\"lady\\" calling herself Olivia Fontaine. Ugh.<br />Still, it is a light, entertaining read, with nice payoffs for long-time fans. Phil acting ... nice. Jeremy's wedding. Mrs. Plaut considering a hearing aid. Toby telling Shel off. Toby trying RC Cola. And a new car for our hero.<br />Bravo to Kaminsky for his series, which hearken back to the days of Raymond Chandler. They're not really similar, but Kaminsky's love for Marlowe, the era and the style are very evident. I would just recommend a couple others ahead of this one, that's all.<br />Try also: Think Fast, Mr. Peters (3.5 stars); Never Cross a Vampire (4.0-4.5 stars, because it has something meaningful to say about Lugosi's career and how it parallels the mystery. Read it, it's a nice touch.)ng meaningful to say about Lugosi's career and how it parallels the mystery. Read it, it's a nice touch.)	2002-03-05
US	47713962	R2HL8DVAWDHDNX	1853754129	737613919	Build My Gallows High (Film Ink)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Rate My Novella High	This is a very short but good novella which consciously imitates the Maltese Falcon. The situations and characters over time have become well-known noir archetypes, if not quite cliches. The plot is set up from its opening paragraphs for calamity, yet a surprising amount of irony squeezed from a story barreling toward a foregone conclusion. And this is how the novel functions best- like a Greek tragedy; everything seems ideal between the protagonist and his beloved, but a dark misdeed in his past provides the undercurrent of wrong.<br />Jeff Bailey, former PI, tries to escape that past but cannot. The man he wronged finds him and forces him to perform one last task for him. Jeff cannot escape, because he is blackmailed. It is all a crooked plan to pin a murder on him, and he is sucked deeper into a labyrinth of illegality and betrayal. He is neither completely innocent nor completely guilty. He is just a flawed man in an elaborate, shadowy trap. The cops and crooks pursue him from all sides as he desperately tries to find a way out of his mess, all the while just wanting to go away and sit on the beach with his best gal...<br />As stated before, this is a very short book- there is not much description. People just do things because they do them, seldom with any emotive insight or explanation. This style works because the characters are who they are: a loyal friend is a loyal friend and a dirty double-crossing dame is a dirty double-crossing dame. Only one character really changes or acts in a surprising way. The aloof approach and moral complexity means relatively few characters garner too much sympathy from the reader; however, there is still some legitimate suspense developed, as we generally just want to see things end happily. But remember, Homes was shooting for a Maltese Falcon feel...<br />The already fast-moving book was streamlined for the movie &quot;Out of the Past.&quot; And almost none of the great dialogue present in the film came from the novel, which surprised me, since they were both written by Homes. Perhaps an uncredited Frank Fenton (His Kind of Woman) had more to do with the witty and sardonic repartee in the screenplay than Homes. The prose of the book is like Hammett written by Cain- it's hard-boiled all right, but laconic; a lot goes unsaid. It has a poet's heart and a mug's voice. Which is fine, just not quite what I expected.<br />Overall, a good but not altogether satisfying read. Add Build My Gallows High to the short list (see also: Cape Fear, Big Clock, Strangers on a Train) where the movie eclipses the literary source.surprised me, since they were both written by Homes. Perhaps an uncredited Frank Fenton (His Kind of Woman) had more to do with the witty and sardonic repartee in the screenplay than Homes. The prose of the book is like Hammett written by Cain- it's hard-boiled all right, but laconic; a lot goes unsaid. It has a poet's heart and a mug's voice. Which is fine, just not quite what I expected.<br />Overall, a good but not altogether satisfying read. Add Build My Gallows High to the short list (see also: Cape Fear, Big Clock, Strangers on a Train) where the movie eclipses the literary source.	2001-09-10
US	47713962	R318SJNY6ENG4D	0312140118	829828768	The Marble Orchard: A Novel Featuring the Black Mask Boys : Dashiell Hammett, Raymond Chandler, and Erle Stanley Gardner	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I am glad I did not give up on this interesting novel.	3-and-a-half stars. There is a Chinese curse that states \\"May you live in interesting times.\\" So to say The Marble Orchard is an interesting book may be interpreted as a good or a bad thing. And there are good and bad elements to Mr. Nolan's work.<br />The plot involves Raymond Chandler seeking down the killer of his wife Cissy's first husband, even though all the evidence points to suicide. Dashiell Hammett, Erle Stanley Gardner, three thugs and an actress specializing in vampiric roles all play parts in the not-bad mystery.<br />One of the interesting (and unsuccessful) things about TMO is that it is decidedly not hard-boiled. Which may be a valid take on the premise. After all, the authors who wrote the stories were very different from their creations- educated, generally refined men. But this is a fanciful take on the era anyway, so why not go the extra step, I thought? Most of the people were very polite in this novel; its early sections read like one of the English school of mysteries that Chandler disliked and so vigorously deconstructed in The Simple Art of Murder.<br />But I read on, and at some point, things subtly shifted for the darker and better, and made me realize that the story structure was skillfully similar, even if the trappings were more urbane: the joes and janes peopling the book got nastier, Chandler got sapped and awakened doped (in a scene very like Farewell, My Lovely); Hammett pulled a gun on some thugs; a blackmail plot surfaced; and duplicitous motives appeared out of what had been to that point a disappointingly linear plot. The resolution was as contrived as any good Black Mask novel should be. Not all that plausible, but possible, and entertaining.<br />Another great thing is how Nolan plays with the way that Chandler and Philip Marlowe *were* alike: a romantic core which appears late in the novel beneath their crust of cynicism. Also, the camaraderie portrayed between Hammett, Chandler and Gardner is a big plus, even if it was entirely manufactured.<br />The bad things about the novel end up being very few, but they are harmful. Like many modern writers, Nolan seems embarrassed at the lack of political correctness in the original Black Mask stories he seeks to bring to mind. So he creates characters and subplots which advance the story not a whit and seem to exist only to administer some ethereal type of social justice. This treacle was applied, I am sure, with the best of intentions, but garnered the worst of results, coming off as phony, preachy and altogether out-of-place.<br />Also, the non-stop factoids are interesting for history and trivia buffs to a point, but Nolan goes too far- a litany of what Hammett read as he began his writing career is unnecessary, dull and obvious. The history of cities is again mildly interesting but superfluous; Chandler painted a better picture of SoCal towns with two snotty comments than do the encyclopedic entries of this novel. And, surprisingly, the Chaplin, Welles, Hearst and Temple cameos actually distract from the atmosphere, as they have no relevancy to the plot whatsoever and instead remind us that what we are reading is not historical at all.<br />Still, Mr. Nolan has succeeded in writing a very well-crafted novel that held my interest despite being nothing like what I expected- not easy to do. And this Black Mask fan thanks him sincerely for keeping an era and a genre, if not exactly a style, alive and kicking.factured.<BR>The bad things about the novel end up being very few, but they are harmful. Like many modern writers, Nolan seems embarrassed at the lack of political correctness in the original Black Mask stories he seeks to bring to mind. So he creates characters and subplots which advance the story not a whit and seem to exist only to administer some ethereal type of social justice. This treacle was applied, I am sure, with the best of intentions, but garnered the worst of results, coming off as phony, preachy and altogether out-of-place.<BR>Also, the non-stop factoids are interesting for history and trivia buffs to a point, but Nolan goes too far- a litany of what Hammett read as he began his writing career is unnecessary, dull and obvious. The history of cities is again mildly interesting but superfluous; Chandler painted a better picture of SoCal towns with two snotty comments than do the encyclopedic entries of this novel. And, surprisingly, the Chaplin, Welles, Hearst and Temple cameos actually distract from the atmosphere, as they have no relevancy to the plot whatsoever and instead remind us that what we are reading is not historical at all.<BR>Still, Mr. Nolan has succeeded in writing a very well-crafted novel that held my interest despite being nothing like what I expected- not easy to do. And this Black Mask fan thanks him sincerely for keeping an era and a genre, if not exactly a style, alive and kicking.	2001-08-29
US	47713962	RU8H0NX5DG15O	0671038907	856111766	Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe	Books	2	4	6	N	N	The Long Let-Down	This was an exceedingly disappointing book. The stories were almost all adequately written but few of them did justice to Chandler's creation. Stuart Kaminsky and Max Allan Collins, as well as a couple of others, turn in admirable efforts. One star of my rating is for them. The other star is for Chandler's story 'The Pencil' alone.<br />It is fine that the authors speak in their own voice; who, after all, could truly duplicate Chandler's awesome prose? Yet they not only fail to match his skill, they fail to match his intent. Too often in this collection, Marlowe is bastardized for the sake of the author's political leanings, to advance a cause.<br />Marlowe was a hero in spite of himself, a champion of the lower classes, one with probable leftward leanings. (Chandler had acquired a refined dislike, or at least mistrust, of the upper crust during his formative years in England.) But as Marlowe prowled the mean streets righting wrongs, seeing that justice was done when the law would not quite do it, Chandler never allowed himself to preach. And that is what a couple of these stories do. It was a testament to Chandler's supreme skill that he could be such a strong voice for counterculture and yet ultimately fight to keep some type of moral status quo in gray circumstances.<br />Authors paying tribute to Dickens would not portray Tiny Tim as walking into a bank, speechifying on the plight of the poor and beating the rich old moneychangers on their heads with his crutch. And authors paying tribute to Chandler should not have had him doing many of the pettily pointed things he was doing in this book. Does anyone really think Marlowe would punch someone connected with the HUAC and sanctimoniously call him an a******? There are other similar forays into homiletic demagoguery. They are hollow, totally out of place, and out of character. Marlowe didn't operate that way, and it cheapens an icon to act as though he did.<br />Interestingly, and not surprisingly, those authors who fudged with the legacy the most were also those who said in their brief comments that they were the least influenced by Chandler. Why include them?<br />Check it out from your local library, read it, and return it; it's not worth purchasing.o fudged with the legacy the most were also those who said in their brief comments that they were the least influenced by Chandler. Why include them?<br />Check it out from your local library, read it, and return it; it's not worth purchasing.	2001-08-08
US	47713962	RGVQCEFC5J5XW	155800291X	513267302	Perchance to Dream	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The Big Almost.	Robert B. Parker comes the closest to the attitude of Phillip Marlowe. Stuart Kaminsky writes his Toby Peters stories more for laughs. Andrew Bergman (The Big Kiss-Off of 1944) had flashes where he nailed the speech, but was more in keeping with Spillane overall. William Nolan (The Marble Orchard) copies some of the dialogue- and I do mean copies- in his enjoyable Chandlerian mystery. And there are others, myriad others. But none of them get it quite right.<br />Neither does Parker, but he comes the closest. He matches the world-weariness, the cynicism and the reluctant romanticism, finding the knight in tarnished armor that is Marlowe. Yes, he very nearly matches the attitude. But he falls short with the style.<br />Chandler nearly ruined literature for me, because everything about every line of his writing'-the dialogue, the descriptions, the societal observations'-is so incredibly entertaining. Nothing can meet its rarified level. So I try to make due with 'close-enoughs.' When I finish a Chandler novel, I am depressed it came to an end; when I closed Parker's Perchance To Dream, it elicited a 'That's all there is?'<br />In P2D, the narrative is much too straightforward. The villain was clear from the first quarter of the book and there were few mysteries to solve. No convoluted Black Mask motives, no people impersonating other people. Marlowe doesn't even get sapped until distressingly late in the story. There is only one real subplot; then that ties in with the other so they can both be too-neatly wrapped up. It becomes clear what Marlowe must do and he sets out to do it. Then, very abruptly, the novel is over. It is strenuous but not complex. There is no last minute twist because the story followed a Spenser-like plot; it more resembles the structure of the first Lethal Weapon movie than it does that of The Big Sleep.<br />And as 50 years have passed between the publishing of the original novel and this one, some subtlety has been forsaken. Parker shows welcome restraint given the subject matter, but Carmen's decadence seemed in Chandler's novel somehow exotic and vague. In P2D, as postmodern psychology and sensibilities are applied, it seems cold and open and dirty.<br />Still, there is a lot that is great in this book. The flashbacks and tips-of-the-hat to the original novel come off better than they might have. We root for Marlowe and hiss the villain, as we should. Parker has penned an abundance of juicy wisecracks and has figured out how to end his chapters in the bittersweet tone much like Chandler accomplished. And the story, despite what I said above, is furiously-paced and viscerally entertaining. It just isn't Chandler.<br />Perchance To Dream is a good novel; but when someone slaps the words 'Sequel to The Big Sleep' on the cover of anything it had better be blackjack-to-the-head *great*. The fault isn't really Parker's' he came close, and his was a nigh-impossible task. After all, who can be as great as Raymond Chandler?<br />P.S. Poodle Springs was a more accurate tribute, if a less actionful read.lcome restraint given the subject matter, but Carmen's decadence seemed in Chandler's novel somehow exotic and vague. In P2D, as postmodern psychology and sensibilities are applied, it seems cold and open and dirty.<br />Still, there is a lot that is great in this book. The flashbacks and tips-of-the-hat to the original novel come off better than they might have. We root for Marlowe and hiss the villain, as we should. Parker has penned an abundance of juicy wisecracks and has figured out how to end his chapters in the bittersweet tone much like Chandler accomplished. And the story, despite what I said above, is furiously-paced and viscerally entertaining. It just isn't Chandler.<br />Perchance To Dream is a good novel; but when someone slaps the words 'Sequel to The Big Sleep' on the cover of anything it had better be blackjack-to-the-head *great*. The fault isn't really Parker's' he came close, and his was a nigh-impossible task. After all, who can be as great as Raymond Chandler?<br />P.S. Poodle Springs was a more accurate tribute, if a less actionful read.	2001-08-07
US	47713962	R1FCVSC0YGSDIZ	0762402482	915097277	Xword Challenge #7 Lp (Large Print Crosswords Challenge)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Easy on the eyes; a little tougher on the brain.	This series is easy to read and laid out conveniently. The puzzles are challenging without being insane. These are my mom's current favorites, and I would recommend them to fans of the crossword puzzles appearing in the NY Times or LA Times.	2001-06-22
US	47713962	R1OWGLHLVEJSME	0762402938	290152672	Large Print Crosswords Challenge 8 (No. 8)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	What's a five-letter word for five stars?	This series is easy to read and laid out conveniently. The puzzles are challenging without being insane. These are my mom's current favorites, and I would recommend them to fans of the crossword puzzles appearing in the NY Times or LA Times.	2001-06-22
US	47713962	R2FYUS8YTPLVXS	0486206432	582166253	Three Adventure Novels:  She, King Solomon's Mines, Allan Quatermain	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Haggard's Three Best in One Compact Volume.	Haggard has received a lot of latter-day disdain for his imperialism and paternalistic descriptions of native cultures. But he was just writing what he knew in the flavor of the time. And boy, could he spin a yarn.<br />Maybe a tad slow for people who cut their teeth on Crichton, but a treat for those who appreciate a little poetry interspersed with exciting battles in a foreign land. And I can't say whether the geographical and historical information supplied is all (or even partly) true, but it certainly is entertaining.<br />These are old-school adventure stories with a dash of fantasy, well-written and possessed of a level of feeling beyond mere derring-do.	2001-06-20
