US	47712338	R1JTI0DZI1R162	0307283658	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	"I'm not afraid, Harry. I'm with you."	Man, you can't beat this one. The fifth book was kind of a letdown (plotholes, characters acting out, Harry angry through the entire book), but the sixth more than makes up for it with serious changes, some incredible plot twists (one of which Rowling spends fully 1/5 of the book justifying, as she definitely should), and of course, a significant body count. <br /> <br />The high adventure will sell the book, but the best parts of it are the moments between Harry and his friends that develop the complexities in the relationships in a real and believable way. And it's nice to see Harry finally have a decent girlfriend. I don't think many people will come away from this book disappointed, but you may be upset that you have to wait a couple more years for the last installment. <br />-sbt.	2005-07-17
US	47712338	RRTPVCR41J8LH	0913035610	570950928	Miracleman, Book 1: A Dream of Flying	Books	5	7	9	N	N	"You're laughing at my life!"	From its opening sequence, Alan Moore's Miracleman grabs the reader by the throat and doesn't let go. By turns a spy thriller and a superhero graphic novel, \\"A Dream of Flying\\" manages to transcend the grubbiness of the medium it occupies and turn the tired Superman archetype on its ear for a truly terrific story. There's moral ambiguity aplenty in Miracleman's world, and he solves it in ways that a more \\"real\\" Superman probably would if he was more of a true character and less of a franchise. Moore has some fascinating things to say about the apotheosis of his hero and this is the beginning of that story. In most of his work, Moore exhibits an obsession with taking his characters to their logical conclusions and Miracleman is no exception - imagine a sort of \\"last days of Superman\\" book and you'll have the idea pretty clearly. The next two books are even better, believe it or not, and Neil Gaiman's short stories in book four are better still. This is certainly the coolest and the smartest of the superhero re-imaginings of the eighties, and though it's more influential than is healthy, it's still a great read.	2005-05-30
US	47712338	R3983DZT674VN8	0785268839	648927278	Wild at Heart: Discovering The Secret of a Man's Soul	Books	1	42	78	N	N	More Simplistic Drivel From "Focus on the Family"	John Eldredge, with faux-poetic language and an ego the size of the mountains he likes to dangle from, has written a book that wanders ever nearer the evangelical goal of turning back the clock on gender relations. Deciding that men want to conquer and women want to submit, Eldredge encourages cavemanly behavior in this and its sequel, \\"Captivating,\\" co-written with his wife. <br /> <br />The Barbie-and-Ken mentality has no basis whatsoever in scripture and is largely backed up with a string of shaky rhetorical arguments dressed up in Lifeway-speak with some truly flawed notions of manliness that totally belittle any accomplishment beyond chest-thumping and working construction. Apparently no man is really a man if he enjoys things like hygeine, city living, and equal partnership in his relationships with the opposite sex. <br /> <br />It's this kind of anti-intellectual garbage that has driven the church out of the academy and the arts. More and more, Christians need to stand up to this kind of rabble-rousing and look with compassion on the world, not with the stupid Braveheart-esque \\"us-vs.-them\\" sensibilty that permeates this book.	2005-04-16
US	47712338	R15RLAE6UB9GW8	0670032573	511631376	Wizard and Glass (The Dark Tower, Book 4)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	"Bird and bear and hare and fish..."	The fourth volume in Stephen King's Dark Tower series is easily the best so far; after the starkness of the desert through which Roland and his companions have been wandering in almost all of \\"The Waste Lands,\\" it's a relief to see King back in familiar territory: small-town evil and with big-time consequences. Most of the book is composed of Roland's childhood as recounted to his ka-tet, and it's both a welcome break and a spectacular chunk of storytelling; a western horror/fantasy/adventure story that tells of Roland's coming of age, and of his friends Cuthbert, Alain, and his lover Susan. The villains here are particularly memorable, notably Eldred Jonas, as evil and conniving a bully as you could wish for.<br /><br />By the time Roland finishes the tale and pulls readers back on the path of the Beam, many will find themselves reluctant to leave Hambry and Gilead behind and return to the action of the main story, but King has a number of surprises waiting in the final chapter of the book, especially a gentleman whose initials are R.F.<br /><br />The idea (mostly vetted by snobs) that King's books are somehow \\"less literary\\" than most of the self-important crap that gets paraded around as serious fiction is unlikely to be quelled by this installment in The Dark Tower heptalogy. It's fun to read, and King cares more about narrative and character development than he does about sounding clever or minting new phrases. Still, it's interesting to see that the man who was constantly vilified and shunned as both immoral and unimportant has proved himself not only a master storyteller, but an unpretentious moralist as well.<br /><br />Oh, go read it.	2005-03-14
US	47712338	R3066P8PI4ID4E	0451169514	380266608	It	Books	5	0	2	N	N	"It was a promise he had kept until today."	Arguably the most accomplished novel by pop lit god Stephen King, \\"IT\\" maintains a chokehold on the reader; both frightening and gripping, it's brilliantly paced and a wonderful read. <br /> <br />     Derry, Maine is the smalltown setting for this and several other King shockers; indeed, King seems hellbent on rooting out the evil under the surface of rural America, and he manages to write distinctively American tales in the process. The indeterminate nature of the terror that hides in Derry is crucial to this book's themes of childhood fears and trauma, as is its avatar, Pennywise the clown. While The Stand told a story grander in breadth and setting, \\"IT\\" spans a longer period of time, while staying close to the main characters and giving the reader a real sense of them as people. The story itself is brilliantly structured and strings the reader along as only King can manage; the four protagonists encounter IT as children, and then again as adults, and King runs the narratives parallel to one another, heightening the tension and the sense of foreboding. <br />      <br />This is interspersed with bits of the history of Derry, giving the reader a little more insight into the evil in the town, and in the townspeople. The modest scale of the epic story makes the sacrifices at the end all the more bittersweet, and the characters worth revisiting.	2005-03-02
US	47712338	R766V9S8HNYB3	156389761X	796653169	Wildcats: Vicious Circles - Volume 2	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Better and better	The Wildcats could easily have joined the legions of cheap x-men ripoffs and raced toward extinction with, well, superhuman speed. But it didn't. With none of the restraints that Marvel put on its writers (main characters must never die, the basic premise of the book should never evolve, heroes are always incorruptible), \\"Wildcats\\" evolved in a number of unexpected directions, with the formation of political and personal alliances between heroes and villains, and the complete lack of pretension or orthodoxy in the runs of writers Joe Casey and Alan Moore. This is the final volume of the former's run on the series, and to describe the plot any further would do the reader an injustice. Suffice it to say that the characters from the previous volumes of the series finally begin to find their purpose after the end of the war, and it's not AT ALL what you'd expect.	2005-02-08
US	47712338	R26YSWWBFZZLJJ	156389582X	520621164	WildC.A.T.S: Homecoming	Books	5	5	5	N	N	"But that was back on Khera."	Before asking Alan Moore to write your comic book, make sure you are not at all attached to the premise or any of the characters. The WildC.A.T.s started off a mostly alien super-team stranded far from their homeworld with a very simple mission: fight the Daemonites. In his first few issues, Moore splits the group in half, sends part of the team home to Khera, introduces some very strange new characters, and reveals that the war they've been fighting has been over for centuries. Oops.<br /><br />Stripped of their motivation, the characters end up having to face down a more insidious threat on Khera, and the double-blinds and manipulations of fellow superheroes on earth. The quantum leap from cookie-cutter fistfights to hard, character-driven sci-fi is a bit of a jolt, but it's a welcome one, and Moore uses it to serve the characters as they find new ways to work and fight together. The central question of the series ceases to be, \\"How do we win this war?\\" and becomes, \\"What do we do now that the war is over?\\"<br /><br />Travis Charest does the bulk of the pencils on this storyline, and they're terrific.	2005-02-08
US	47712338	R3508MBIVORIHW	1563890119	763187671	The Sandman Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"Then I don't know what I am."	When Neil Gaiman came back to write \\"Endless Nights\\" several years after the Sandman had ended, the Entertainment Weekly blurb on the cover read, \\"The greatest comic book ever returns.\\" <br /> <br />That's not really hyperbole. <br /> <br />As much-maligned (and as justly) as comic books have been for trading on intricate and nonsensical tropes, recycled stories, characters that never mature, and bloody stupid dialogue, \\"The Sandman\\" found ways to take the wayward form and turns it on its ear. Writer Neil Gaiman summons up a vast, literate, and cockeyed theology of prime movers called the Endless who travel freely to Hell, Los Angeles, and (most interestingly) the Dreaming; a sort of mutable landscape of fictions and stories, ruled over by Dream - a stiff, formal deity and one of the most compelling characters in comics. <br /> <br />The stories in this volume range from pulpy horror (\\"24 Hours;\\" \\"The Sleep of the Just\\") to high-level speculative fiction (\\"The Sound of Her Wings,\\" \\"A Hope in Hell\\"). The art is similarly ranged - \\"The Sound of Her Wings\\" uses the subtle Mike Drigenberg to evoke loss and nostalgia, but the Sam Keith psychedelia that festoon \\"A Hope in Hell\\" and \\"The Sleep of the Just\\" work just as well in a completely different way. This is the problem with \\"Preludes and Nocturnes\\" (which should really be called \\"More Than Rubies,\\" given the story's title in serial form) - it is both an apple and an orange. <br /> <br />Still, there's plenty to like here, and if you think that comics are mostly semi-literate pablum aimed at small children and minor intellects, you've probably never read anything like it. The surprisingly unpretentious mix of the Bible, mythology, potboiler horror, and G.K. Chesterton is something almost completely unique, not just in comics, but anywhere. \\"Preludes and Nocturnes\\" is not the best part of the story (that award is variously distributed among \\"The Kindly Ones,\\" \\"Brief Lives,\\" and \\"Season of Mists\\"), but it is certainly intriguing and highly recommended to anyone who wants to read a book that is both vastly entertaining and something of a literary achievement. <br />	2004-12-07
US	47712338	ROUKPICF1RXE	1401200877	480288720	Across the Universe - The DC Universe Stories of Alan Moore	Books	3	2	3	N	N	"For the Man Who Has Everything"	It's hard to overstate exactly how much fun Alan Moore's comics usually are. They're inventive, witty, even erudite on occasion. This is not one of those occasions, unfortunately. The two Superman stories in the volume are very good, and a couple of the Green Lantern Corps shorts are very clever, but the rest of the book is marred by the catch-all approach to literature, in which DC apparently looks for a by-line and reprints on reflex, never giving a thought to the quality of the stories. The Vigilante tale takes up more space than any other story in the book and is frankly no good. The same goes for the smaller Batman story (a character for whom Moore seems to have some little antipathy - according to him, his acclaimed \\"The Killing Joke\\" remains one of his least favorite works), and the book is simply not large enough to excuse the reprinting of such deliberately shoddy material. Further, DC's new printing of \\"The Greatest Superman Stories Ever Told\\" does not, in fact, include the Moore stories from previous printings. Apparently, this book is the only place you'll be able to find those stories anymore, and you'll have to drop twenty dollars on mostly inferior material to find them! Is the book worth the cover price? Grudgingly, I have to say yes, but only for \\"For the Man Who Has Everything,\\" \\"The Jungle Line,\\" and a couple of the eight-page GL Corps stories. The rest is that least Moore-like of vices: boring.	2004-09-13
US	47712338	R1BY1MVAK5VKKM	0971024960	435694228	Supreme: The Return (Supreme Vol. 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"'King' will do."	It's hard to overstate how good a book like Supreme really is for people who like their superheroes sunny-side up. \\"The Return\\" is by turns compelling, sad, funny, and ludicrous, as virtuoso comics writer Alan Moore continues to polish the tired old Overman archetype until it shines. In the wake of his battle with Darius Dax at the end of the previous book, Supreme has to deal with his old flame Judy Jordan, his new love Diana Dane, and a supervillain jailbreak. Alliteration aside, the characters are warm and very human, and Supreme's awkward romance with Diana is one of the great moments in superhero comics. Moore's writing on Supreme transcends the source material and gives the reader something completely new - a heartfelt book that's so absurd, it approaches the sublime. <br /> <br />The art on the previous volume was hit-and-miss, but Moore has adopted regular penciler Chris Sprouse, whose attractively stiff rendition of rock-jawed superheroes makes a clever counterpoint to Rick Veitch's organic, loving homages to artists long gone in the flashback sequences. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the book's final two chapters are as-yet unpublished, thanks to the untimely demise of Rob Leifeld's Awesome Comics. The book ends on a high note, with Moore, Veitch, and Leifeld's eye-popping Jack Kirby tribute, but several plot threads are left unresolved. Still and all, this book is the best classic super-hero work on the market right now, and should be on any Superman aficionado's shelf.	2004-08-31
US	47712338	R27Y0U36YE7572	1401202713	788030203	Gregory Treasury, A - Volume 1	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;YAH! Gregory feets!&quot;	It's a strange character that finds amusement in fleeing willy-nilly around his tiny cell yelling, &quot;BIM BIM BIM BIM BIM,&quot; but then,  Gregory is a strange book. The titular hero is a little fellow of indeterminate age who does not so much suffer from mental illness as make the most of it. Marc Hempel seems to find endless amusement in this conceit, and most readers will, too - there's the occasional curse word (this really isn't intended for children, as harmless as it is), but the humor is mostly clean, free-spirited, and goofy, with a mild literary bent (the chapter in which Gregory finds his way out of his straitjacket is called &quot;A Hello to Arms&quot;). Add to this a series of gags involving Gregory's friends Herman Vermin (a rat who is constantly being killed and reincarnated... as himself) and Wendell (a painfully polite mouse who just wants to be left alone with his cheese), and you're left with a fun, funny, self-contained little masterpiece of cartooning that should warm even the stodgiest heart. Hempel's influences are the best of the best; there are shades of Walt Kelly here, as well as Ernie Bushmiller and maybe even a little Charles Schulz. Overall, a worthwhile purchase for anyone who needs a cheap laugh or just wants to read a good cartoon.	2004-05-21
US	47712338	R2947S1ZX8QKEB	0781409357	648927395	The Gospel Blimp and Other Modern Parables (Joseph Bayly Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	&quot;He began to fly again. On campus.&quot;	Proving that only a true idealist can be a successful cynic, Joseph Bayly's novella and his short stories remain some of the best-written Christian fiction available. Bayly writes amusedly of the religious world and its quirks, free from the sledgehammer moralizing of most of his successors. Part Woody Allen, part Ray Bradbury, Bayly manages to laugh at a great deal that isn't terribly funny until he gets his hooks into it; the title story is a fantastic treatise on evangelizing in bulk, and most Christians will probably spot themselves somewhere in the cast of caricatures. This is a must read for those who are looking for something a little more meaty than the Left Behind books and a little more modern than the Narnia Chronicles.	2004-05-04
US	47712338	R31HXV1CAPKOIS	0974166456	54567247	Judgment Day	Books	5	16	18	N	N	&quot;Let us handle this.&quot;	Alan Moore saves the day yet again with this short, sweet murder mystery about one of the most-loathed series in comics: Youngblood. Almost unbelievably, Moore manages to turn the established continuity on its ear, and goes on to spin complex and charming backstories for all of the participants, which go further toward explaining the characters and their motivations than the original series ever did.  It's a wonderful read, and if you squint hard, you can see all kinds of great silver-age heroes and villains reincarnated with a twist (Storybook Smith = Johnny Thunder, The Fisherman = Green Arrow).  The artwork ranges from atrocious to lovely, as Moore tells his story mostly in flashbacks and has a different artist for each one, but they include the incomparable Gil Kane and Keith Giffen, so it's still worth the price of admission.  The framing sequences are by Rob Leifeld, unfortunately, who still can't draw feet after nearly 20 years in the medium.  Overall, a great book written with in Moore's wordy, witty style with a couple of forgivable artistic flaws.<br />Note: Sadly, this story sets up the wonderful and defunct Youngblood revamp, that has yet to be collected, or even released in its entirety.	2004-03-11
US	47712338	R2G1X1UOYTI3CA	0571199836	923091222	Boy Gets Girl: A Play	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Massively Overrated and Insulting	I went to see this play at the Royal Court Theatre in London after having heard how good it was.  When I got out of the theatre, I felt like I had been called a horrible name by someone who didn't know me at all.  This play really seems to insinuate that men are all in some big club together and are all out to get women.  It is cheap and easy to put sexist dialogue in a man's mouth.  Lifetime does it all the time.  This is another silly play that portrays all women as courageous victims and all men as conflicted and brutal.  Gilman needs to put down the brush with which she paints such wide strokes and take a long look at something a little harder than racism or sexism.  Get real.	2003-12-14
US	47712338	R1NPELGRDT0DW9	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	27	33	N	N	&quot;I leave it entirely in your hands.&quot;	This is one of the greatest books to come out of the last half of the century.  For those who don't know, Watchmen is a fairly postmodern take on the idea of the super hero, incorporating him into Cold War politics and involving literal super powers in the arms race.  Which is not to say that this is some kind of Tom Clancyish techno-thriller; far from it.  The book is an intense, character-driven drama about the little people who put on the costumes and how they face the horrors that the world leaves at their doorsteps.  It's great, sweeping, human epic stuff, one part political thriller, one part whodunit, three parts character study, and I'd recommend it to nearly anyone.  The story starts with the murder of an old costume hero, and his former comrades, long since retired, who may be next on the murderer's list.<br />The writing: Moore's writing transcends the limitations on the medium and pushes it into a strange, beautiful, multi-faceted territory where the complexity of the characters' motivations put the reader in the same kind of &quot;moral checkmate&quot; that plagues the protagonists at the end of the book.  The parallel structure of the book's multiple overlapping plotlines is remeniscent of Thomas Pynchon or J.G. Ballard, and the sureness and consistency of his style keep the story flowing.  Since the plot is so complex, Moore reveals it in pieces by setting up individual chapters as studies for the individual characters, with key events seen from their unique perspectives.  As their different experiences of the same events yield more clues to the book's initial mystery, Moore uncovers something larger about the characters themselves, and maybe even people in general.<br />The artwork: Dave Gibbons's stated philosophy is that the art should get in the way of story as little as possible, and it's a philosophy which is clearly visible here.  Gibbons avoids obviously flashy layouts and silly-looking splash panels and merely tells the story.  There are no full-page panels until the final chapter of the book, which is extremely appropriate and helps the story and art blend into a single, unique creature.  His renderings are clean and balanced, and his anatomy is perfect.  The art is barely noticable the first time through, but it grows on you like fungus.<br />Overall: If there were ten stars on this list, this book would get them all.  It's a fantastic reading experience and a great introduction to a form that most people don't think twice about.  Try it out, and if you like it, try From Hell and A Small Killing.	2003-09-15
US	47712338	R2JRPF0WR6OX0Q	0971024952	222430135	Supreme: The Story of the Year	Books	5	33	34	N	N	&quot;Up! Up! And over!&quot;	The Writing:<BR>Moore's charming, loving rendition of the classic planet-tossing superhero is rightly noted by several other reviewers as aping Superman at his silliest, but it's also a fun, funny, compassionate look at the Superman character, and one filled with insight into what makes him tick.  It's not a deconstruction, refreshingly, and it's not a revamp - it's a &quot;prevamp,&quot; if you will, a harking back to the times before all the assembly-line serial killers and grim, stalkerish superheroes began to flood the market with angst.  There is a warmth here that is decidedly missing in even the best of Moore's work, especially between Ethan and Linda (the Clark Kent and Lois Lane characters), and it just feels great to read something like Supreme for the sheer childish joy of it.  If you liked Rob Leifeld's run on the book, you'll probably dislike this a great deal, but that, frankly, is good news.  For Rob Leifeld fans, I recommend Gray's Anatomy, until you recover.<br />The Artwork:<BR>The art is admittedly sub-par, for the most part; Joe Bennett's renditions of Supreme are still stuck in the early-nineties days of bulked-out powerhouses in clothing that might as well be painted on, and nearly every female character appears to be smuggling canteloupes.  The good news is that Rick Veitch manages to save every single issue with his flashback sequences.  Veitch deftly imitates nearly every notable comic artist of the silver age - his Harvey Kurtzman (Mad Magazine) spoof is worth the price of the book all by itself, and his Bill Finger and Wayne Boring are dead-on.  You'll also get to see, very briefly, some of Chris Sprouse's work on the title, which makes the next book all the more enjoyable.<br />Summary:<BR>An excellent book with a few forgivable artistic flaws and a great deal to recommend it.  Age-appropriate for nearly everyone and a whole lot of fun.<br />NOTE: This book has gone through a new and better printing since the early reviews that complain about the 600 dpi scan quality of the first.  I believe that Checker has an exchange program for those who bought the sub-par printing of the book, as well.	2003-09-01
US	47712338	RCAFCOUTG9TR7	0971024952	222430135	Supreme: The Story of the Year	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"Up! Up! And over!"	The Writing:<BR>Moore's charming, loving rendition of the classic planet-tossing superhero is rightly noted by several other reviewers as aping Superman at his silliest, but it's also a fun, funny, compassionate look at the Superman character, and one filled with insight into what makes him tick.  It's not a deconstruction, refreshingly, and it's not a revamp - it's a \\"prevamp,\\" if you will, a harking back to the times before all the assembly-line serial killers and grim, stalkerish superheroes began to flood the market with angst.  There is a warmth here that is decidedly missing in even the best of Moore's work, especially between Ethan and Linda (the Clark Kent and Lois Lane characters), and it just feels great to read something like Supreme for the sheer childish joy of it.  If you liked Rob Leifeld's run on the book, you'll probably dislike this a great deal, but that, frankly, is good news.  For Rob Leifeld fans, I recommend Gray's Anatomy, until you recover.<br />The Artwork:<BR>The art is admittedly sub-par, for the most part; Joe Bennett's renditions of Supreme are still stuck in the early-nineties days of bulked-out powerhouses in clothing that might as well be painted on, and nearly every female character appears to be smuggling canteloupes.  The good news is that Rick Veitch manages to save every single issue with his flashback sequences.  Veitch deftly imitates nearly every notable comic artist of the silver age - his Harvey Kurtzman (Mad Magazine) spoof is worth the price of the book all by itself, and his Bill Finger and Wayne Boring are dead-on.  You'll also get to see, very briefly, some of Chris Sprouse's work on the title, which makes the next book all the more enjoyable.<br />Summary:<BR>An excellent book with a few forgivable artistic flaws and a great deal to recommend it.  Age-appropriate for nearly everyone and a whole lot of fun.	2003-09-01
US	47712338	R3NQ0PV24D1Q5O	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	4	4	6	N	N	&quot;But God never accounted for the mighty.&quot;	Kingdom Come is, as noted in other reviews, one of those seminal superhero books that both longtime readers and newer fans recommend unreservedly, like Moore's Swamp Thing, The Dark Knight Returns, and Watchmen.  What separates this book from the others is the nature of the story's appeal; while the other books are forward-looking, trying to come up with new ways to tell comic book stories, Kingdom Come is primarily a nostalgic work, the most fun for people who yearn for the old DC Universe, a gentler place, without the starkness and horror found in the above-mentioned works.  Ross's art is not new; it is an almost worshipful homage to Dave Fleischer, Neal Adams, and a host of other talents whose virtues Ross glamorizes with his marvelous, photo-real watercolors.  The story is good, solid dystopian sci-fi stuff, and is ultimately about Superman, and the choices he has to make as someone who is forever an outsider.  It's very good, and it's well worth the reading.  Groundbreaking?  Nah.  But who says that's the only mark of a classic?  Rather than attempt to do something new and unusual, Waid and Ross do something old and classic in a uniquely appealing way, and their story is fun, dramatic, and pulpy in the best sense of the word, proving that some things in the superhero genre ain't broke after all.	2003-08-31
US	47712338	R3DW9OYXH3DWY0	1563895609	292386355	WildC.A.T.S: Gang War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;I'm the thing that's left when the soul is gone.&quot;	Moore spent most of the nineties in hibernation, writing titles that had been pulled in too many different directions and streamlining them.  WildC.A.T.S is one of the better examples, as is the ingenious Supreme.  Moore (and James Robinson, earlier in the series) takes the characters from being cheap X-Men knock-offs to having personalities and agendas of their own, and makes previously boring heroes like Spartan fascinating.  That's not to say that this is a flawless book, by any means.  Moore's writing seems rushed, at times, and his usual inventiveness is undercut by silly cross-overs, fist-fights peppered with one-liners (albeit good ones), and some frankly terrible ideas from the first year of the book that he has to do somersaults to avoid, occasionally leaving a plot hole behind.  Still, he manages to hit his stride by the end of the book, and the finale is genuinely moving, interesting, and scary.  The books' chief villain comes out of left field so smoothly that you wonder why you never saw him coming, and Moore is obviously attached to some of the wackier characters like Majestic and Ladytron.  The only other caveat I feel I should offer is that the book's artwork is fatally uneven.  Wildstorm puts Travis Charest in every issue they can, but his artwork is lazy at times (xeroxed panels, sillhouettes, no backgrounds), and the fill-in artists look like, well, fill-in artists.  That said, some of Charest's work is genuinely beautiful, and certainly worth looking at.  <br />Overall, a solid book with a few flaws that is still very much worth the reading.<br />Note: This is a companion set with WildC.A.T.S: Homecoming, and is the second book in the series.	2003-08-18
US	47712338	R31ZR096NB831C	1563896184	145540291	JLA: World War III - Book 06 (Justice League (DC Comics) (paperback))	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"Have we forgotten anyone?"	Morrison's trademark apocalypse comes right on schedule in his version of the JLA, which looks for all the world like a big-budget, mid-summer blockbuster movie.  All the loose ends that you thought were forgotten about, all the characters that you thought just showed up for one issue, every superhero you can name and few that you can't come to the rescue in Morrison's admirably surreal take on the end of the world at the hands of a giant, planet devouring menace.  It's a great read, and Howard Porter has finally gotten a handle on anatomy, as well as the classic Superman.  The best of the series.	2003-08-15
US	47712338	R35KVVM5H8OR1R	1563890828	720188927	The Books of Magic	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;I don't know any fields.  I'm a city boy.&quot;	One of Neil Gaiman's several Vertigo miniseries (others, all good, being Black Orchid, Death: The Time of Your Life and Death: the High Cost of Living), this is perhaps the most interesting and strange of all.  It's hard to say what this actually is - it's not a linear narrative, certainly, with so many parallels and deliberately various art, nor is it merely a history of the magical characters in the DC universe, nor is it a guide to the occult.  It's some sort of combination of the first two, with a little of the third thrown in as a sort of ghost-story-tellerish insinuation that &quot;I really might not be making this up.&quot;  Gaiman has an excellent handle on the characters and their chemistry with each other - he's an exceptional writer of dialogue, and he keeps the story from becoming a portentous chore of overwriting by keeping protagonist Tim Hunter, who is really a fairly normal English kid, firmly in the foreground.  The down-to-earth sensibilities of Tim and John Constantine, surely one of the most engaging characters in comics, make this an excellent read, though you will be a little lost if you don't at least have a DC comics buff to whom you can whisper, movie theater-like, &quot;Who's that guy, and what's he been in?&quot; every few pages.  The art is, by and large, great, although I thought Scott Hampton wasn't given a chance to play to his strengths.  The third section, which takes place in Faerie and is illustrated by the inimitable Charles Vess, is particularly impressive.  Overall, this is the kind of arcana that makes Gaiman such an attractive and accessible cult figure, and fans won't want to miss out, though comics newcomers would be better advised to check out the Sandman Series or my personal favorite, Mr. Punch.	2003-08-15
US	47712338	R1J8OCAON5Q28P	1563894165	516042784	JLA (Book 3): Rock of Ages	Books	5	15	18	N	N	"The only way we're gonna serve you is medium rare."	This story is Morrison, arguably at the top of his form, writing a runaway train of a story with so much complexity that it takes several re-readings to understand everything.  While the writing gets the book its five stars, there are a couple of sequences near the end of the book that are illustrated by artists who are not so much inferior to Howard Porter as they are jarringly different.  Porter is a big, splashy superhero artist, and some of the art in the final chapter is a lot less showy.  Usually, I'm all for that, but if I'm watching Charlie's Angels, let's please not have it intercut with clips from My Left Foot.  That said, Porter's visions of the future JLA are really cool looking, and the final showdown with Darksied is worth the price of the book all by itself.  One more caveat: this book does indeed feature the horribly designed, conceived, written, advertised, and promoted Super-electricity-man, representing perhaps the single most shameful \\"let's make a buck\\" moment in the history of DC Comics, so while the smart, funny writing and blockbuster art make the story fun, you can't turn a page without going, \\"Oh yeah, that costume.\\"  Be warned, but read it anyway.	2003-08-15
US	47712338	R3CZOUXJPA4HW4	1561633194	478657541	Cages	Books	5	12	12	N	N	&quot;That's a nice thought.&quot;  &quot;It isn't mine.&quot;	There are really no words I can write to do this one justice.  It's one of the single most moving experiences I've ever had reading anything, never mind comic books.  McKean's line art is breathtaking, and the painted interludes and photo montages are every bit as fascinating, disturbing, and touching as anything he's done with Neil Gaiman or Grant Morrison.  The story is about a tenement and its various occupants, but it's also about inspiration and love, and the things that drive us to create.  Go read it.	2003-08-11
US	47712338	R15FOCSPZ3YGKO	1563894297	582983908	Superman: Adventures of the Man of Steel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Top-of-the-line Superman Stories	As with the Batman Adventures books, this is one of the clearest and most charming depictions of the Man of Steel around.  The stories are inventive and well-told, with neither the continuity clutter of the mainstream books nor the uneven artwork that plagues the larger titles from issue to issue.  All the stories here are self-contained, and the excellent introductory issue by Paul Dini and Bruce Timm is topped again and again by the legendary Scott McCloud, whose clear writing style belies some of the cleverest plotlines in any Superman comic.  The sure-footed and simple line art is the work of Rick Burchett from issue 2 onward, perfectly complementary to McCloud's scripts.  The book itself is a pretty no-frills presentation on newsprint, but it does the job.<br />The best of the stories is the last - &quot;Seonimod,&quot; a time-running-backwards story with Mr. Mxyzptlk, but then they're all pretty great.<br />Overall, an excellent choice for anyone who likes a good read, and a kid-friendly and clever introduction to The Man of Steel.	2003-08-11
US	47712338	R2PTUTR3XQLHN4	0785109765	121421950	New X-Men Vol. 3: New Worlds	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Weakest of a fabulous series	NOTE: THIS IS A REVIEW OF NEW X-MEN: NEW WORLDS, NOT THE NEW X-MEN VOL. 1 HARDCOVER, WHICH IS TRULY EXCELLENT.<br />Morrison's New X-Men is as good or better than the book has been since the days of Chris Claremont. He has an unshakable hold on what makes each character tick, has done marvelous things with characters that no one had been interested in for years (Cyclops, Emma Frost), and gives everyone a distinct and interesting personality. That said, the art in this volume really suffers the absence of Frank Quitely, arguably the most talented penciller in mainstream comics. No, there is not a line nor shadow in this book drawn by Quitely, save two of the covers, so don't believe the author listing. The book largely consists of a three-parter drawn by Igor Kordey, whose art, while less atrocious than in the previous volume, is still decidedly sub-par and not nearly the kind of work we've come to expect on a book that has made so many superstar artists overnight (John Byrne, Jim Lee, Barry Windsor-Smith). Kordey may yet achieve greatness, or at least legibility, but for crying out loud, this is the X-Men. Morrison's storytelling is a little more oblique in the \\"Assault of Weapon Plus\\" story, and that doesn't help matters. What really makes this collection shine are the short stories following.<BR> The good news is two- no, actually three-fold. This is the last time we have to put up with Kordey (the fill-ins are now being done by Chris Bachalo and Phil Jimenez), \\"Riot at Xavier's\\" is entirely by Frank Quitely, and there's a fabulous fill-in issue here called \\"Ambient Magnetic Fields\\" with art by Jimenez (last seen with Morrison on the slightly wonkier Invisibles). All in all, the collection is very much worth the money - it's a good read, and certainly integral to the ongoing story, and Morrison appears to have a plan, like always, for characters that he introduces here. It's also the prelude to \\"Riot,\\" which is just fantastic.	2003-05-06
US	47712338	RQR6UHEKVASQ7	1560600802	896567168	Miracleman, Book 3: Olympus	Books	5	11	11	N	N	&quot;Balanced on the diamond capstone of Olympus&quot;	If there was ever a series that EVERYBODY gets excited about, it's Alan Moore and Neil Gaiman's Miracleman.  The first 10 issues are a very entertaining spy story, reworking the title character's origins in classic Moore fashion.  The art is a little spotty, unfortunately, and the story suffers for a couple of issues in Book 2: The Red King Syndrome.  Olympus is the payoff.  Moore and Totleben were made to make comics together, as evidenced by their acclaimed run with Steve Bissette on Swamp Thing, and this is the best work either of them has ever done, and perhaps ever will do, with the super-hero genre.  This book is abou 150 pages of the most heartbreakingly beautiful comic art you will ever see in your life; Totleben's baroque line art impressively manages to save Moore's purple prose from caving under its own weight, and Moore has Totleben draw some of the most compelling characters and moving scenes in any medium, all while decorating it with beautifully poetic language.  There's a reason that everyone gushes about this series, and Olympus is that reason.	2002-12-11
US	47712338	R1BV79OL9BO7L1	0785108874	501360122	New X-Men Vol. 2: Imperial	Books	3	12	14	N	N	"I can heal you!"	First, the good news: Morrison's apocalyptic storytelling just shines here.  The climax to Imperial is absolutely first-rate, and the plot twists are perfect (there's some great foreshadowing here as well - the phoenix force casts a long, fiery shadow over the proceedings).  This book is actually the long, long conclusion to E is for Extinction, so the one volume doesn't really make sense without the other.  Quitely's sections are unsurprisingly brilliant - his lines and layouts are clean and inventive, exhibiting a great eye for detail and sense of pacing.  Ethan Van Sciver is also a pretty solid contender, though perhaps not in the same league as Quitely.<BR>     Now the bad news: Igor Kordey's sections are very bad.  Very, very bad.  Good Lord, are they awful.  The layouts are cluttered, the pacing is off, and the character depictions are downright lazy.  Memo to Marvel: Please, please kick this loser off the book before he ruins your sales.  People will stop reading if they can't figure out what's going on.<BR>     Final assessment:  Marvel exhibits business acumen, if nothing else.  Climactic issues are always pencilled by Quitely, and Van Sciver gets his licks in.  Morrison's writing miraculously transcends Kordey's godforsaken art, so the book is certainly worth reading.  Pick it up just to read the great writing and to see the occasional beauty, and write a letter to Marvel protesting bulk-rate comic art.	2002-10-04
US	47712338	R3LHXYCAPHYR1B	0785108114	279941995	New X-Men Vol. 1: E is for Extinction (v. 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	&quot;Jean and I are perfectly happy, Logan.&quot;	Grant Morrison has mastered the team dynamic on nearly every book he's ever written (Doom Patrol, The Invisibles, JLA), and his New X-Men is a fabulous example.  Cyclops is now the most interesting X-Man, new characters pop up every few pages, and the costumes are better than they have been in years.  The overall feel of the book is a wonderful return to the inventiveness and wit of the Lee/Kirby days, and Frank Quitely's art is drop-dead gorgeous.  Ethan Van Sciver pencils a serviceable coda to the main story, and begins his tenure as the &quot;regular fill-in&quot; artist on the book.  Van Sciver is growing noticeably with each issue, so things look pretty good.  Don't expect this story to self-contain, incidentally.  Morrison won't wrap up anything until he's ready to leave the book, and the closest we come to a conclusion is the end of Imperial, the next story arc.  These two books make a pretty good companion set.	2002-10-04
US	47712338	R19YBY9XDAYZUU	0930289544	971182877	Swamp Thing Vol. 2: Love and Death	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Flawed Collection of an Excellent Story	First, let me just say that, along with its companion piece (Saga of the Swamp Thing), this is one of the best horror stories ever written in any medium and it's also a definitive work in the history of comics.  Saga is the setup, and Love and Death is the payoff, so be sure to read the ond before the other.  That said, a few minor issues need to be addressed - first, this is part of the patented Irritating Collection Scheme that DC does so well.  This book does not contain an entire story; it has the end of the Saga of the Swamp  Thing story and the beginning of American Gothic (which is very long and comprises the next two trades).  Another bizarre choice (or perhaps a mistake) on DC's part is the fact that there is a page missing.  That's right, in the middle of the chapter called &quot;The Brimstone Ballet,&quot; Moore segues into a scene with the Monitor with the words, &quot;No celestial force that watches over us...&quot;  For those of us that read Moore, this is an obvious transition, but the entire scene is inexplicably cut, which feels more than a little jarring.  All this aside, this is one of the most beautifully illustrated, tightly plotted, and simply elegant stories in the medium.  Buy it, but if you want it complete, you'll have to have the originals.	2002-01-15
US	47712338	R1B78I72C01ZL7	1563890054	562788757	Animal Man, Book 1 - Animal Man	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A wonderful series	Once again, DC's trade paperback division (no doubt actually the primate cage at the New York Zoo) has managed to miss completely the point of this wonderful series by Grant Morrison.  The first nine issues of this series do not comprise anything that even remotely resembles a coherent story, but that's what DC chose to reprint, and by god, that's what people will be reading for the next ten years.  THe story becomes interesting around issue 12, and Buddy descends into a kind of meta-narrative hell that leads to one of the most startling, original, and above all, moving conclusions in the history of comics.  That's in issue 26.  This trade, however, reprints only the first nine.  While some of them animal rights issues are downright whiny, the seeds of greatness are readily apparent in here.  Issue 5 (\\"The Coyote Gospel\\") has already been rightly recognized by another reviewer as being \\"simply THAT GOOD.\\"  Other standouts include \\"The Death of the Red Mask\\" and a fantastic Mirror Master story, whom Morrison has found a way to slip into every mainstream title he writes.  This is the beginning of the book's evolution from a peurile animal rights diatribe to a comtemplative treatise on the nature of fiction, but it is only the beginning.  Be amazed, be enthralled, be frustrated.<br />CODA: DC has done the unthinkable and, after nearly twenty years, decided to release the other two books in the series as \\"Origin of the Species\\" and \\"Deus ex Machina.\\"  Go buy them NOW.	2002-01-07
US	47712338	R12ITUUGSA51TT	1563896311	864852568	JLA: Earth 2 (JLA (DC Comics Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Gorgeous Throwback to Pre-Crisis DC	Grant Morrison's writing really shines in this self-contained JLA tale about an alternate dimension containing evil counterparts for every member of the Justice League (think \\"Mirror Mirror\\"). Morrison plays with every character as much as he can, giving them all a little more depth than usual as he fleshes out a charming tale straight out of the pre-continuity DC days. The conflict is interesting, the heroes are fully realized, and Frank Quitely's artwork is as good as it gets. Never have so many looked so cool so often. The attention to detail in this book is beyond the pale - so many little things stand out on re-reading and re-re-reading that it's worth your money just for the pictures. Pick this one up; it's well worth it.	2002-01-04
US	47712338	R1QFLE817KDPLK	1563890348	168497267	Doom Patrol, Book 1: Crawling From the Wreckage	Books	4	33	33	N	N	The beginning of the best there is	Morrison's Doom Patrol ranks among one of the best-loved runs in comic book history. The writer's playfully weird style hits a happy medium between the preachiness of the otherwise excellent Animal Man and the detatched nature of the self-referential Invisibles. Morrison really seems to care about these characters - for the first time, someone actually wrote a comic book about broken people trying to save the world, not cool-looking mutants or angst-ridden strongmen with movie-star looks, and Grant Morrison was just the man to do it. Sadly, DC hasn't bothered to collect the rest of the run into trade paperback...and Red Jack is the least interesting of what eventually became the best rogues' gallery in comics. The heroes are still wonderful, though, and Morrison's deft sense of pacing really shines here. Also on its way to noticeable improvement in Richard Case's excellent artwork. By the end of Morrison's run, Case had perfected his style and gave the entire book a distinctive, slightly disturbed feel - here, you can see the evolution firsthand. So read this, anyway, if for no other reason than to be properly introduced to Comics The Way They Should Be Done. But keep in mind that it's only the first chapter of a longer, better story; this is one of the few books that actually begins (with Crawling from the Wreckage), middles, and ends, and by the time you've read about the Painting that Ate Paris, you'll be in for the long haul.    EDIT: DC has, wonder of wonders, realized how many people loved this series and has released the second trade paperback in what will hopefully be a long series: \\"The Painting That Ate Paris.\\" It's even better than the first one, which has been released with a better cover and missing pages re-included.	2002-01-04
US	47712338	R2Q3YFL3X3I3YG	1563892618	524121401	Preacher VOL 01: Gone to Texas (Vertigo)	Books	5	269	292	N	N	Texas, by God	This is an extremely difficult review for me to write.  I'm an evangelical Christian, and, hard to believe as I'm sure it seems to a lot of people, I still think it's the best (and only) way.  Preacher was going to be the enemy for a long time - that strange, pretentious book about a man of the cloth taking on God.  And then I read Gone to Texas.  And the next day, I read Until the End of the World.  And the next day, I read Proud Americans.  In case the pattern had escaped you, I had a very hard time putting these down.  More to the point, I did not put them down, and have just finished Alamo.  Did the book shake my faith?  No.  It made me think a great deal, and a great deal harder about things that had not previouly occurred to me.  Was I offended by it?  Sure.  Find me someone who wasn't.  Did I love every single page?  You bet.  The book has so much going for it that I probably won't be able to fit it in here - Ennis and Dillon did every single issue - that's NEVER been done before, as far as I know.  You can start with Gone to Texas, and finish up at Alamo with a clear understanding of how each of them became better at what they do.  It was smart without being pretentious, which put it head and shoulders above most of DC's Vertigo line - anyone can read it, anyone can understand it.  Most importantly to me, though, the characters were as real as you or me.  Ennis peppers the story with horrific violence and some incredibly disturbed images, but I wouldn't have batted an eyelash if I hadn't known that it was Tulip at gunpoint, or Jesse hanging out of the plane.  No matter what the characters go through or do to each other, you still love them - Cassidy is one of the most well-written and complex characters to ever grace the pages of a comic book, and Jesse, in the midst of all the incredibly debauchery, is one of the most moral.  For those reasons, I enjoyed the slower stories more; Salvation is at the top of my list, followed closely by All Hell's A-Comin.  And let's not forget the humor - there were times when I was laughing so hard I couldn't turn the page.  Give it a shot.  It's new, it's innovative, and someone thought about it.  That alone should be worth the prive of admission.  You'll like it, and if you don't like it, you'll read it anyway.	2001-08-19
US	47712338	RRCXCYHFL16Z5	1563897156	46430639	Preacher VOL 09: Alamo (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Great conclusion to fantastic series	I won't mince words here - the level of talent involved with this book is just staggering.  Ennis's prose improves with every issue - the prelude to the story in &quot;Texas, by God&quot; is an excellent example of the massive writing ability the man has been endowed with.  It's easy to forget that you're reading intelligent material and just get caught up in the action, or the characters, or the bizarre plot structure.  Ironically enough, this is probably the most impressive testament to the strenght of the writing.  Minor quibbles: after reading the end of the book, how the bloody hell did Cassidy live after being shot by the Saint way back when?  If God knew everything, didn't he know what was going to happen?  And, most importantly to me, what happened to poor Amy?  This is the largest travesty in in my book - when last we left her, the story felt like it would have to come back and reconcile her love life, but that never happened.  C'mon, Garth, write an addendum.      Whining aside, this is easily the best series to come out of a mainstream publisher in years, and the oppurtunity to watch the writer and artist grow steadily over the course of the book is a pleasure indeed.  Watch Cassidy's facial structure, for example.  The ending is heartbreaking in the best possible sense of the word, and I wanted to hang the two-page &quot;cowboy&quot; spreads on my wall.  &quot;Hell, girl...&quot;  &quot;Can't you guess?&quot;	2001-08-19
US	47712338	R1003HOVW55470	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderfully entertaining, if derivative, piece of fiction	Gaiman is one of the last, best storytellers in the history of the fantasy genre.  It's wonderful to see a writer whose stories are both imaginative and accessible in a field that seems to prize quantity over quality.  This particular novel is packed with imagination, showcasing one strange, funny concept after another, all within the framework of a classic reluctant hero's quest.  That said, not all of the charming, interesting concepts are Gaiman's own.  It becomes obvious after a few pages that Gaiman owes a remarkably large debt to both Fritz Leiber's The Sinful Ones and Mervyn Peake's Gormenghast trilogy.  Indeed, the initial conceit of The Sinful One's resembles Neverwhere a little too closesly for comfort.  These are fairly minor quibbles, honestly.  Gaiman, at least, has the decency to borrow from the best, and he learns as he writes; everything after Good Omens (his novel with Terry Pratchett) is funnier, everything after The Sandman takes itself a little less seriously.  It's good to see an author who focuses on self-improvement over self-aggrandizement, and Gaiman is improving at a fantastic rate.  All in all, one could do considerably worse than to borrow from J.G. Ballard James Branch Cabell, and Gaiman makes ample and innovative use of his lessons.  Read Neverwhere.  You won't be disappointed.  And maybe you'll follow Gaiman's tacit advice and visit the forgotten masters that he so obviously loves.	2001-06-08
