US	47757359	RO18AQIVEP77Q	0195147073	945197277	Divided by Faith: Evangelical Religion and the Problem of Race in America	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Fascinating look at religion and race	Summary:<BR>The book is based on the first author's doctoral dissertation and follows that format...  It presents the problem, namely that white evangelical Christians have a long-standing relationship with race in America and that America remains racialized (a term explained in the book).  Given the recent trend among white evangelicals to do `something' about the race problem, Emerson and Smith are interested in two things: (1) How do white evangelicals really feel about race and racism in America?  (2) What are white evangelicals really doing about it, if anything?<BR> <BR>The authors then employ a number of methods to answer this question, including analyzing survey data and conducting extensive interviews with hundreds of white evangelicals.  These data are presented in the middle few chapters of the book.  The conclusion is best summarized by the authors, \\"Despite devoting considerable time and energy to solving the problem of racial division, white evangelicalism likely does more to perpetuate the racialized society than to reduce it\\" (p. 170).<BR> <BR>Comments:<BR>Before I offer some criticisms of the book, let me begin by saying that this is an excellent text.  It is clearly written and presents a persuasive argument (though the argument isn't without its problems).  The authors have done their best to minimize sociological jargon and, when it isn't possible to avoid it, they clearly define the terms they use.  The authors also employ a variety of theoretical constructs (the cultural tool kit is probably the clearest), simplified for an educated lay-audience, based in the current literature on the sociology of religion.  The result is an easy to read book that clearly illustrates a social problem - white evangelicals talk the talk, but don't really walk the walk that will transform a racialized America into a society where race `doesn't matter'.<BR> <BR>A minor criticism to begin with... The authors don't mention that they are evangelical Christians.  Given the current trend in the sociology of religion to reveal one's personal religious persuasion so as to inform the reader of any biases that might stem from this, not revealing this fact is an unfortunate oversight.  However, I'm inclined to not be concerned about this oversight in this book considering how critical the authors are of their own.  This book does not speak highly of the efforts of white evangelicals to reduce the racialization prevalent in America.  If the book had been laudatory in light of the evidence, the religious affiliations of the authors would have been suspect.  <BR> <BR>The other problems I have with the text are a bit bigger in scope, but also would require that the authors delve into issues for which they don't really have adequate data. First, white evangelicals aren't wholly to blame for the racial problems in America today.  The authors don't claim they are exclusively to blame for this, but at times one might get that impression.  Additional analysis and discussion looking at the roots of racism in America (especially the economic factors involved in slavery) would have helped alleviate this impression.  <BR> <BR>Second, given the finding that the efforts of white evangelicals to reduce racism are ineffective at best and counter-productive at worst, it would have been nice to see the authors offer some concrete suggestions for what could be done to improve race relations.  This criticism rests in the fact that the authors find the individualistic approach of white evangelicals to be ineffective.  But when they do offer suggestions as to what should be done, they are generally ambiguous and abstract, \\"As Stokely Carmichael and others have noted, when problems are at least in part structural, they must be addressed at least in part by structural solutions\\" (p. 130).  The only concrete solution they do offer, integrated worship/mixed race churches, they then say would be impossible to accomplish because it weakens churches.  At the endof the book you come away feeling like the authors have done a good job illustrating how white evangelicals are failing in their efforts, but you aren't actually any better informed as to what needs to be done to accomplish this aim.<BR> <BR>Despite these criticisms, this remains one of the clearest and most readable books on the sociology of religion I have ever read.  I would highly recommend it for anyone interested in either white evangelicals or the connections between religion and race relations.	2004-02-01
US	47757359	R1CKVPCQKF3WDW	0803990375	55037647	Gods in the Global Village: The World′s Religions in Sociological Perspective (Sociology for a New Century Series)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	excellent text on the sociology of religion	Summary:<BR>This is really more of a textbook on the sociology of religion than anything else.  As such, it is not particularly conducive to summation (too many topics; too much information).  <BR> <BR>However, there are two things worth noting about the contents.  First, the book goes to great lengths to look at religion from a global perspective, which I found to be invaluable and informative, especially considering how uncommon it is to do so.  The second point is similar - the book doesn't focus on just Christianity or U.S. religion.  The book compares, contrasts, and examines all of the major world religions- Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Buddhism, and Hinduism.  There isn't really more emphasis on one than another; they pretty much receive equal treatment, which is also unusual.<BR> <BR>Comments:<BR>The fact that the book looks at all of the major world religions rather than focusing on just Christianity, which is early on outlined as the book's objective (a global perspective), is refreshing and likely very informative for students in the U.S. who typically are somewhat ignorant of life outside of their country.<BR> <BR>It is also nice that the author, Lester Kurtz, reveals his personal religious biases to begin with.  His wife and kids are Jewish, but as a family they predominantly worship at Quaker worship services.  His interest in the Quaker religion is revealed, to a degree, by his treatment of Ghandi.  Not only is the treatment quite extensive, but Ghandi is idolized for his peaceful tactics (not that I disagree with this approach, I just found it revealing of the author's biases).  Also, the final chapter, though well-written and not particularly overt, is definitely Kurtz's attempt to spread a message of peace.  He doesn't necessarily attack religions for their history of justifying violence, but he definitely hopes this history is nearing its end.<BR> <BR>Despite being well-written and offering an informative global perspective, there are a couple ofproblems with the book.  First, there is only minimal treatment of secularization.  Lacking is a discussion of neo-secularization (Chaves 1994), though admittedly much of this was happening while Kurtz was writing the book.  Also, though the debate continues, there is definitely much more evidence for the existence of secularization in the U.S. than is presented in the text.<BR> <BR>The book also gives the impression that it isn't possible to have values/morals without religion.  I'm guessing this isn't the intention of the author as he tends to be fairly objective, but it is implied in several locations.  I also found the author's usage of scripture, the Bible in particular, disturbing.  He goes in and out of using the Bible as historical and metaphorical and never specifically states which perspective he is employing at any given point.  For instance, Kurtz uses the story of Moses coming to power as the leader of the Children of Israel to make a point about religions generally, but also seems to conclude that the story is historically accurate.  Whether he really believes it is or not isn't clear.<BR> <BR>Finally, the author has a tendency to drift off onto theoretical tangents that at times are more rambling than coherent.  These occurrences are few and far between, but when they do happen you find yourself wondering how you arrived where you are.<BR> <BR>Overall, I highly recommend this book as a text for a course on the sociology of religion.  The book is for the most part accurate, well-written, and clear (I know he missed one point with Mormons, but I didn't find many other flaws).  The book isn't without its problems, but they are truly minimal compared to the synthesis of a global perspective on religions he has produced in writing this book.	2004-01-28
US	47757359	R1BEU484RI5YYO	0884944077	726727750	The Celestial Connection: Faith-Promoting Stories on Family Research	Books	3	0	2	N	N	exactly what the title says - faith-promoting	Summary:<BR>The book is a collection of stories about different divine interventions that have facilitated the Mormon goal of providing salvation for the dead.  Let me expound just briefly on this concept for those unfamiliar with it.<br />Mormons believe that it is necessary to be baptized and participate in several additional rituals (temple endowment, washing and anointing, etc.) in order to finally enter into heaven (their conception of heaven is different from most Christian religions as well, but I'm not going to go into that here).  Of course, if everyone must participate in these ordinances/rituals, then everyone that did not participate in them (which would include pretty much everyone who lived past the age of eight and died prior to 1830, with the possible exception of ancient prophets and some of their followers) would not be able to enter heaven.  But Mormons, in consideration of those that never had the chance to hear the gospel, also believe that these rituals/ordinances can be performed for the deceased by living proxies (like pinch-hitting).  Because it is impossible to determine if individuals have accepted the efficacy of these rituals  in the afterlife (meaning they want to become Mormons), Mormons have decided that they will just do the ordinances for everyone and those that don't want to accept them don't have to.  Thus, in a quite literal sense, Mormons intend to convert not only everyone that is currently living, but also everyone that has ever lived.<br />In their goal to accomplish this, the Mormon Church has encouraged its members (and even funded some individuals) to do genealogical research - looking up the names and relevant information (birth, death, marriages, etc.) for the deceased.  This information is collected centrally and members of the religion that have participated in these rituals then act as proxies for the deceased in these rituals.  With the exception of Sunday and major holidays, thousands of these ordinances are performed every day in LDS temples around the world in the Mormon Church's never ending quest to convert everyone to Mormonism.<br />This book relates how some individuals' received &quot;divine&quot; help and guidance that facilitated their goal of collecting names and information in order for the deceased to receive these ordinances.  The stories range from coincidental occurrences (finding a book at a swapmeet) to dream sequences and hearing voices.<br />My Comments:<BR>With that lengthy introduction, let me make a few, brief comments about the book.<br />As far as the writing goes, there are no Pulitzer Prize winning contributions.  The stories are written by the individuals involved, but thankfully, the editors (Rector and Deputy) paid close enough attention to the writing that the grammar and spelling mistakes are nearly non-existent.  It isn't brilliant writing, but it does get the job done.  <br />Normally, I am very critical of faith-promoting writing.  Much of it makes unsubtantiated claims with which I take issue.  Even though I am inclined to see the experiences related in the book as coincidental occurrences, hallucinatory dream sequences, or accounts that have been revised after the fact in order to bolster religious faith, the authors never really make historical fact claims.  As a result, I don't think the book can be criticized from this perspective.  The authors hold no pretenses that this book is a logical argument for the existence of a god or the actuality of his influence.  It says it is faith-promoting, and it approaches every experience with that perspective in mind.<br />I should note that, as an agnostic that used to be a Mormon, I do not believe in supernature (or at least do not believe there is proof of supernature).  Every one of the accounts in the book can be explained in ways that do not include divine intervention.  The book does not argue for supernature; supernature is assumed.  When you approach life with an understanding that there isan active god, it isn't too difficult to see his hand in pretty much everything, but since the authors don't try to hide this fact, so be it.<br />Overall, the book isn't particularly well-written but neither is it unreadable.  I may not agree with the causal attributions in the stories (that they are divine), but since there are virtually no attempts to claim anything other than that which is unprovable (the existence of supernature), I can't help but give this book an adequate rating.	2004-01-20
US	47757359	R28KS4KTTAAEG7	0974548006	966775088	Soccer Dreams: My True Adventure Following the U.S. Women's National Soccer Team, as a Fan and 12-Year Old Junior Reporter for the St. Petersburg ... History-Making 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup!	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Very impressive for a 12-year old	Summary:<BR>The book begins with a very brief history of the author's personal soccer experience (it's only about 2 pages; she starts playing at 7 and is only 12 when writing the history).  The rest of the book then follows the author, Leah Lauber, on her assignments covering the U.S. Women's Soccer Team for the X-Press Team, a group of children the St. Petersburg Times newspaper employed to write for the children's section of the newspaper.  Leah's assignments included a visit to the women soccer team's practice facility in Orlando, attending games in Florida, the gold medal game in the Atlanta Olympics, a game in Washington D.C., and the Women's World Cup final in Los Angeles.  Along with interviewing some of the players at each event, she, her father, or her grandfather took pictures, which were later used to illustrate her news stories and the book.<br />Included in the book are the newspaper articles Leah wrote for the Times based on her assignments as well as the full interviews with the players, which are included in the index.<br />Comments:<BR>I should note that I was contacted by Leah's father to review the book after he saw some of my reviews on Amazon.com.  After his description of the book and perusing the book's website, I approached the book keeping in mind that it had been written by a 12 year-old.  <br />First off, this is a remarkable piece of work for a 12 year-old.  I wish someone had encouraged me to develop my abilities at such a young age.  I hope she continues to hone her skill, as she definitely is talented.  <br />As far as the writing goes, Leah's writing at 12 was better than about half of the college freshmen I had in my introductory sociology course last summer.  Of course, any professor that teaches college freshmen would immediately retort that there are practically illiterate students in those classes, but I think my class was particularly bright (no illiterates), and still, Leah's writing ability was better than most of theirs.  Itwasn't perfect and definitely could have used a pass over or two from the same editors that reviewed her newspaper articles (they were clearer and more well written), but it was surprisingly good, if not very complex; definitely beyond what I would expect from a 12 year-old.<br />Two very good decisions were made as regards to the organization of the book.  First, there are a lot of pictures.  Even though Leah's writing is great considering her age, it isn't strong enough to carry a 90 page book.  Including the pictures fills up the space while keeping the book a quick read.  Also, the full interviews with the players are included as appendices rather than in the book's text.  As Leah had a tendency to ask the same questions to everyone she interviewed at any particular event, the interviews can be a little redundant.  The way they are presented in the text puts them to good use.<br />Though the intent of the book is not to provide a step-by-step account of the U.S. Women's team, it does give enough information to explain what happened.  It also provides an interesting look at some of the behind-the-scenes training for the team, a unique perspective of an uber-fan's fixation with women's soccer, and it drops the fact that the women's team carried markers with them to sign autographs, which I think is pretty cool.  Though I feel bad saying this because I am both a soccer player and fan, I have to admit I didn't follow the U.S. Women's Team very closely in the mid to late 1990s.  I do, however, have an excuse - I was in a different country from 96-98.  But even after that, I didn't pay too close attention to the Women's World Cup, in large part because I'm too cheap to pay for ESPN and ESPN2.  All the games that were on the basic channels I watched, but not the others.  So, for me, Leah's outline of what happened was informative.<br />There were a couple of problems with the book, the biggest I've already mentioned - it could have used a good editor.  There are some very simple grammatical mistakes, including incomplete sentences, subject/verb disagreements, and mismatched tenses.  Also, at times Leah's comments seemed like a plug for attending women's soccer games.  I'm sure it's cool to actually be there, and if I had unlimited funds and lived closer to where they played, I'd probably go.  But I am, after all, a poor graduate student; even with her encouragement, I don't think I'm going to make it to many games any time soon.<br />Finally, I had a hard time appreciating some of the statements Leah made that I believe were intended to present some sort of theme or underlying take home message.  Perhaps the best representation of this are the last two sentences, \\"And it all started with a love of reading, which led to a love of writing, combined with a love of soccer, which led to a love of the players on the U.S. National Team.  Isn't it funny how things work out sometimes?\\" (p. 60).  I have to admit I was a bit let down by this anti-climactic finale; it isn't original or profound.  What's more, I have no idea how it ties in to the beginning of the book as Leah begins by relating her history and there is no mention of her interest in reading.  I probably shouldn't expect too much from a 12 year-old, but still, it was a little disappointing.  It did, however, illustrate to me why adults generally write children's books - they have a clearer sense of how to incorporate deeper themes into their writing.<br />Overall, I enjoyed reading the book, but not tremendously.  I think it is better suited for a younger audience as I found many of the ideas and much of the commentary a bit superficial (I know, I know, she was only 12).  The book does offer a unique perspective on the events surrounding the U.S. Women's Soccer Team's participation in the 1996 Olympics and the Women's World Cup, and the pictures are nice.  It could prove as an inspiration to aspiring young writers, who would be the audience for which I would recommend Soccer Dreams.	2004-01-10
US	47757359	R28WOPIWSCTQWI	1586212230	1192464	Naked	Books	4	3	5	N	N	well-written and funny	Summary:<BR>The book is a collection of short stories, most of which I believe are based on the author's actual experiences.  Most of the stories are about his family and growing up, but the final story, Naked, is about his experience going to a nudist colony/resort.<br />My Comments:<BR>All of the stories are well-written, engaging, and entertaining.  As is the case with 'Holidays On Ice', the author never reveals when a story is fictitious or not, but I was inclined to believe most of these were non-fiction (though there might be an embellishment here or there).<br />I was impressed by the author's candor about his personal life.  To be willing to reveal one's quirks and even poke fun at them takes either a lot of money or a lot of self-security.  I'm not sure which is Sedaris's motivation, but whatever it is, it's nice to hear someone being frank about life.  <br />Though the stories jump all over the place and don't really seem to have a common thread, I don't think anyone can argue that Sedaris has a gift for telling poignant and humorous short stories.  The stories are a bit outlandish and the author is blunt, meaning they probably aren't for everyone, but I would definitely recommend this book.	2004-01-03
US	47757359	R3OXWY8A0MJOKY	1586210661	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	4	1	1	N	N	well-written and funny	Summary:<BR>The book is a collection of short stories, all of which I believe are based on the author's actual experiences.  Some of the stories are about Sedaris's childhood and his life just before leaving for France, but the majority about his time spent in France. <br />My Comments:<BR>All of the stories are well-written, engaging, and entertaining.  As is the case with 'Holidays On Ice', the author never reveals when a story is fictitious or not, but I was inclined to believe that all of these were non-fiction (though there might be an embellishment here or there).<br />I'm also not sure what, if anything, I missed because I listened to this book on CD, but the live recordings for some reason were even more funny than his normal writings.  Listening to them live is definitely a boon for the CD version.<br />I was impressed by the author's candor about his personal life.  To be willing to reveal one's quirks and even poke fun at them takes either a lot of money or a lot of self-security.  I'm not sure which is Sedaris's motivation, but whatever it is, it's nice to hear someone being frank about life.  <br />Though the stories jump all over the place and don't really seem to have a common thread, I don't think anyone can argue that Sedaris has a gift for telling poignant and humorous short stories.  The stories are a bit outlandish and the author is blunt, meaning they probably aren't for everyone, but I would definitely recommend this book.	2004-01-03
US	47757359	R2EHZA4MKKBOTJ	0446612545	540414996	The Beach House	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Poorly written; occasionally interesting	Summary:<BR>Jack Mullen is a promising law student from a blue collar family that has spent most of its existence catering to the wealthy families in The Hamptons.  Jack's brother, Peter, was something of a playboy among the wealthy, often invited to parties, generally to park cars but also for other reasons that are revealed very late in the book.  His father was a carpenter and his grandfather, Macklyn, worked in a coal mine until retiring, then took up studying the law and became a legal aide.<br />Jack is working with a major law firm in New York over the summer as an advocate for a supposedly wrongly imprisoned individual in Texas.  But when he heads home for the weekend, he is greeted by his father, grandfather, and girlfriend, who happens to be the daughter of the wealthy Neubauer family and owners of the beach house where Jack's brother, Peter, was found dead.  Jack goes to see the body only to realize that his brother didn't drown but was beaten to death.  But everyone, including the local police, rule out murder, considering the death an accident or suicide.<br />Months and even years of follow up investigation, hampered by a mysterious individual hired by the murderers to make everything just go away, reveal that Jack is right - Peter was murdered.  But the reason why is very, very complicated and ultimately requires Jack, his new girlfriend, and his grandfather to kidnap the Neubauer's, some of their friends, the Hampton's chief detective, and the Neubauer's lawyer and set them up in a mock courtroom where Jack proceeds to prove Barry Neubauer is guilty, not of murder, but of knowingly infecting others with AIDS.<br />As it turns out, Peter was a high-priced gigolo for the rich and one of his friends took pictures of Peter with his clients, so they could later use them for blackmail.  The blackmail eventually got to Neubauer, who proceeded to kill Peter and have others kill the friend that took the pictures.  But Jack, with the help of the rest of his friends was able to put everything together.<br />Comments:<BR>This book is disappointing on a number of fronts.  First, I listened to the CD version and even found it, as an abridgement of the novel, to be far too long.  The mock courtroom set up at the end of the book drug on and on and on.  It was agonizingly slow to get anywhere; anyone in their right mind that had kidnapped some of the most powerful people in the world wouldn't care to stretch the scenario out any longer than possible as it just gives the authorities more time to find them, which of course never happened.<br />But where the book really falls apart is in the development of the characters.  Jack's father is quickly killed off from a 'freak' heart attack.  Why?  Because he didn't have a place in the story.  But Jack's grandfather, Macklyn, did have a place in the story and was early on touted to be a very powerful legal aide in the Hamptons.  But, guess what, Macklyn never actually went to a courtroom during the entire book.  Instead, he spent his entire time either in a local bar or at Jack's father's house.  Hmm, sounds like a real legal wonder to me.  Of course, he has to have this ability because he serves as the judge in the mock courtroom, but it was really pretty unrealistic considering Macklyn didn't actually do anything related to lawyering during the entire book.  The farthest he ever went towards illustrating his legal abilities was to suggest to Jack they could solve the case, but then he disappeared for entire chapters at a time.<br />Macklyn isn't the only character to be neglected only to play a major role in the end.  Jack's new girlfriend also experiences this, along with pretty much everyone but Jack.  It got so bad that I couldn't even keep straight who did what among Jack's circle of friends, who also seemed to be very important to the story but were incredibly derelict.<br />As far as the story goes, it was really bordering on just plain silly and definitely wasn't very original.  Isn't it always a 'big surprise' when a poor, little guy takes on the evil, rich guy and wins?  Well, this book is no different.  Except for the porn.  Yeah, I guess I have to give the authors credit for created a scenario where they could actually incorporate a male gigolo.<br />Overall, the book isn't well written, the story isn't compelling or convincing, and the characters are, for the most part, poorly developed.  The book is really just like one big coincidence, and an unbelievable one at that.  I don't think I'd recommend it to anyone but die hard James Patterson fans.	2003-12-31
US	47757359	R2IZEC6P6WBK4Q	0679729771	587113700	002: Maus II: A Survivor's Tale: And Here My Troubles Began (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	touching and honest	Summary:<BR>Art (Artie) Spiegelman is a cartoonist and the son of holocaust survivors Vladek and Anna Spiegelman.  Art decided to tell his parents' story in graphic novel (comic book) form.  The first book, Maus, covers the meeting and marriage of Vladek and Anna and follows their story up until they enter Auschwitz during WWII.  <br />This book follows their story from when they enter the camp until they are finally freed by the Russians.  This part of the story is also related in pieces as Art visits his father.  Vladek was surprisingly resourceful as a camp prisoner and was continuously able to find positions where he was needed, helping keep him alive.  Anna, on the other hand, wasn't always so lucky but she managed to stay alive.  For both of them, much of what kept them alive was the hope of seeing the other person, which Vladek was amazingly able to arrange despite the men and women living in separate camps.<br />Eventually the war ends and they return, separately, to their hometown in Poland, though they have no knowledge of whether or not the other is alive.  Thus, when Vladek, who arrives last, finally makes it home, it makes for a touching reunion.<br />My Comments:<BR>This second book is definitely more touching than the first, though this is probably in large part due to the suffering the Spiegelman's experienced.  This book also does a good job of bringing the story closure, though it took quite a while for this book to be published after the first one was.<br />Once again, the author is critical of himself by illustrating a rocky relationship with his father rather than everything being rosy.  This self-criticism leads to my final point.  I think the allure of these two books is that the author doesn't try to dress things up in a pretty package.  He does his best to present things as they actually were (at least, as they were seen by his father).  The result is that you see things like children having their heads bashed in by Nazi's slamming them against walls and a son who only grudgingly helps his father but at the same time uses him for his story (that sounds a bit harsh as I'm sure the son was inspired to tell the story just to share it, but he also made money off of it, so he did use him in a sense).<br />As I did with the first, I would recommend this book.  Keep in mind that the book makes no pretense to be an objective treatise on the holocaust - this is a survivor's tale and it is at the subjective, individual level of one person who made it through.  It is compelling and hopefully a warning for future generations about the potential maliciousness humans are capable of forcing on other humans.	2003-12-30
US	47757359	R2QWAEZLMLPCEE	0394747232	587113700	My Father Bleeds History	Books	4	1	4	N	N	surprisingly engaging	Summary:<BR>Art (Artie) Spiegelman is a cartoonist and the son of holocaust survivors, Vladek and Anna Spiegelman.  Despite a rocky relationship with his parents (resulting in years of therapy), Art eventually makes the decision to tell his parents' story in graphic novel (comic book) form.  (I'm including what would generally be considered background information because it is actually included in the novel.)<br />Art's mother, Anna, committed suicide, and now he has only the recollections of his wealthy but super-frugal father upon which to base the story.  Through repeated visits, Art gets his father to recount his World War II experience.<br />Vladek's begins with his pre-war life, which barely pre-dates his meeting Anna.  Once Vladek meets Anna and they marry, Vladek is quickly taken in by Anna's parents who help him set up a factory near where they live (in Poland).  But the War is rapidly approaching and Vladek is drafted into the Polish military, which quickly fell.  He was then a prisoner of war for a number of months before returning to his family.  The family is then torn apart as they move from ghetto to ghetto, doing their best to stay alive, in large part due to Vladek's resourcefulness.  Vladek and Anna even send their firstborn son to live with relatives as they think he will be safer.  As it turns out, the son dies, but he probably would have with them as well.<br />Despite doing their best to avoid it, eventually Vladek and Anna end up in Auschwitz, but that is covered in the second book: Maus II.<br />My Comments:<BR>I wasn't expecting to find this book as engaging as I did, though I'm not sure why.  Eventually, I was drawn into the book and was disappointed when it ended just as the Spiegelman's are sent to Auschwitz.  <br />Initially, I was distracted by the approach of the book as it bounces back and forth between the author interacting with his father as he is interviewing him (quasi present day) and the father's account of his experience during the war (~30 years prior).  But it quickly becomes clear that this is included for a reason - to illustrate what the father has become (likely in large part due to the experience he is recounting).  <br />I was also surprised by the author's willingness to reveal so much about himself.  Rather than present himself as 'the good son', he is quite critical of himself.  His character in the book is constantly complaining about his father and even goes so far as to call him a murderer when he discovers that Vladek burned Anna's journals from just after the war.  <br />Keep in mind this book is only the first 1/2 of the story.  Without reading the second book the story wouldn't be complete.  Thus, while this book is interesting, it is really just setting the foundation of what becomes a compelling love story between two survivors and their son's attempt to deal with his parents and childhood.  I think this book could serve well as an introduction to the holocaust for young readers as it combines an actual account with thoughts, comments, and pictures.  Of course, additional books should be used to supplement this one, but it would make a good primer.  And, for those that have read quite a bit about the holocaust it still is a powerful tale about what it took to survive (luck and an insurmountable desire to love and live).	2003-12-30
US	47757359	R3S6VFWQH3E1DH	1586212222	383741816	Holidays on Ice	Books	4	0	4	N	N	well-written and funny	Summary:<BR>The book is a collection of short stories, some fictitious, some based on the author's actual experiences.  Probably the most well known story is 'SantaLand Diaries', the author's account of his time spent working as an Elf in Macy's SantaLand.  <br />`Based Upon A True Story' is about a TV producer who shows up at a Pentecostal church one morning hoping to convince one of the members of the congregation to sign a contract allowing him to produce her miraculous story.  Apparently, the woman saved her son by transplanting one of her kidneys to him in their house. I'm assuming it was meant to be a fictional commentary on the ridiculous lengths TV executives will go to to get a story.<br />`Season's Greetings to Our Friends and Family' is a wife's account of the havoc that has been created in their family due to the arrival of her husband's love child from his time spent in Vietnam.  The love child, Quesan, arrives one day, unannounced, and proceeds to destroy the narrator's family.  The story is written as though it were a holiday greeting card and is also fictitious.<br />`Front Row Center with Thaddeus Bristol' is a strange critique of elementary school drama productions.<br />`Christmas Means Giving' is a fictitious account of two families whose competition to give the most ends with the ultimate sacrifice - their lives.  This is another social commentary, though its target isn't perfectly clear.<br />`Dinah, The Christmas Whore' is, I believe, a non-fiction account of when his sister brought home a co-worker, who also happened to be a prostitute, around the Christmas holidays.<br />My Comments:<BR>All of the stories are well-written, engaging, and entertaining.  SantaLand Diaries was by far my favorite, but I think that is primarily because it isn't fiction.  At least, I don't think it is fictitious, which leads to one of my criticisms of the book - the author never reveals when a story is fictitious or not.  Of course, some are obviously fiction (Christmas Means Giving), but with others you can't be certain (Dinah, The Christmas Whore).  It probably doesn't really matter if the stories are fictitious or not, but it would be nice to know.<br />I'm also not sure what, if anything, I missed because I listened to this book on CD, but there was definitely one element of the CD that probably makes it better than the standard book - Sedaris's Billie Holiday style singing.  On the CD he sings; you won't get that in the paper back.<br />I was impressed by the author's candor about his personal life (once again assuming he is relating non-fictional stories).  Though these 'secrets' are more extensively revealed in later books, I did find his fixation on soap operas to be a bit unsettling.  Sedaris is also quite adept at producing one-line summations of points.  For example, in commenting on how similar people are, the author ultimately concludes, \\"When all is said and done, it just comes down to fingerprints.\\"  As much as I'd like to disagree, I'm thinking just about everyone would want to disagree, which makes my disagreement moot.<br />Though the stories jump all over the place and don't really seem to have a common thread, I don't think anyone can argue that Sedaris has a gift for telling poignant and humorous short stories.  Not all of the stories make sense, but given that some of the most non-sensical stories are true, I don't know that making sense is the author's goal.  Perhaps what Sedaris is really trying to do is illustrate the absurdity of life.  If he is, he's doing a good job of it.  The stories are a bit outlandish and the author is blunt, meaning they probably aren't for everyone, but I would definitely recommend this book.	2003-12-30
US	47757359	R3HAA0W69OI73Q	0743529251	318684906	What Should I Do With My Life?: The True Story of People Who Answered the Ultimate Question	Books	1	29	42	N	N	stereotypical motivation book, but worse!	Summary:<BR>The book is supposed to be Bronson's findings after having interviewed hundreds of people about what they felt they should have done or did with their lives.  But I didn't really find this to be the case.  What it seemed like to me was more a strange mixture of Bronson summarizing the lives of some of the people he interviewed and then adding his opinions about their situations.  <br />Add to this mix Bronson's self-adoration about being invited to a conference of business big whigs where he encouraged all of the CEOs present to make sure their employees liked their jobs (like that is going to happen) and Bronson's ideas about childbirth and you have 'What Should I Do With My Life?'<br />Comments:<BR>I absolutely hated this book.  This is definitely one instance where I am glad I listened to the CD version instead of reading the actual book because it was abridged and shortened the misery.  The problems with this book are so monumental I can't believe it was even published.  Oh wait, yes I can, he's on the board of directors of a publishing company - he can probably get anything published, including this drivel.<br />My biggest criticism of the book is that Bronson is falling back on the idealized notion that everyone can do what they want.  This is such a ridiculous notion that I can't even believe people are still claiming it's possible.  Does Bronson really think that someone desperately wants to be a garbage collector?  I know the job of my dreams is to clean toilets.  Come on!  If everyone can have the job of their dreams, who is going to do the menial work like cleaning his office while he vacations in the Caribbean?  This notion is often proclaimed by the likes of Rush Limbaugh and Sean Hannity (this is the first reason I came to believe Bronson was a subtle Republican propagandist).  Social democrats, on the other hand, recognize it's impossible.  Rather than encourage everyone to 'make it big', they try to help the little guy so he can at leasteke out a bearable living.  <br />My second biggest criticism is that there is absolutely no sense of organization to this book.  This leads to a follow up criticism, which is that the thousands of other motivational books that say the exact same thing at least have an organization to them.  Bronson's book doesn't present a coherent message and what can be understood of the message is no different from thousands of other books that just tell you to 'be whatever you want to be' (see criticism 1 above).<br />The longer I listened to this book, the more I questioned why Bronson was qualified to write this book.  If I'm not mistaken, Bronson is a successful fiction writer who writes novels about the business world.  Maybe in Bronson's mind writing fiction equates to expertise in psychology and career counseling, but not in my world.  And even though Bronson claims to have interviewed hundreds of people, I was thoroughly convinced by his inability to organize his 'findings' that he has no idea how to do social-scientific research.  Fiction writer does not equal expert.  <br />I think what we have here is another case of someone getting a little fame from his novels and POOF! the fame goes to his head.  Bronson seems to think he knows everything, or at least his opinion is important enough that everyone should hear it.  Bronson goes so far in his pipe dream that he even begins giving advice about having children.  What makes his advice even worse is that the advice he gives really just echoes Dr. Laura, which is the second indication that Bronson is a closet Republican propagandist.<br />Overall, I don't think anyone should be subjected to this incoherent claptrap.  This is a poorly written book by a non-expert who is moonlighting as a Republican propagandist in between writing novels.  I highly recommend any thinking person avoid this novel like you would an Al Qaeda training camp if you were George Bush, Jr.  Absolutely terrible!!!	2003-12-30
US	47757359	R2G07CT1N31VI	0072387238	448285472	Anthropology of Religion: The Unity and Diversity of Religions	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Thorough, fair treatment of anth. of religion	Summary:<BR>This book is designed to be a textbook for a course in the anthropology of religion.  It covers all of the majors theories and elements of religion at an understandable level for beginners yet advanced enough to be a good introduction to the topic for someone knowledgeable about religion but not necessarily the anthropology of religion.<BR> <BR>Comments:<BR>I'm likely biased in my perspective on the text because I know the author (not very well, but he's a nice guy) and was not at all impressed with the instructor of the course for which the text was used.  My instructor had a tendency to make erroneous claims and this text was often my source for correcting his mistakes. <BR> <BR>The main criticism I have of the book is that its organization isn't always clear.  Certain elements seemed out of place in the overall flow of topics, though organizing everything fluidly in an introductory text is often difficult.  For instance, it's usually the case that in order to fully understand topics at the beginning of the book you have to understand the topics at the end of the book.  In other words, you have to understand X before you can understand Y, but before you can understand X you need to understand Z, whose understanding is based on Y.  I'm not going to fault Crapo on this point as he does his best to overcome this standard short-coming.<br />Other than this minor criticism, I thought the book was well-written, clear, and informative.  As a sociologist who studies religion, I obviously felt some things were better explained sociologically than anthropologically, though distinguishing the two is often not possible.  I did think it interesting that there was a clear distinction made between psychology of religion and anthropology, but not sociology (though I should note that Crapo generally makes it a point to note if a modern researcher is a sociologist rather than an anthropologist).  I think the reason there is not a distinct section on sociology is because many traditionally sociological theorists (Marx, Weber, Durkheim) were co-opted as anthropological theorists (yes, I know, Marx and Weber were both economic theorists to begin with anyway, but since economics doesn't claim them...).  This is probably just another example of disciplines looking for historical legitimacy, but anyway...<br />The index, though not perfect, is pretty good and I found myself using it regularly.  I have nothing against re-selling textbooks I don't think I'll ever use again, but I plan on keeping this one for future reference when necessary.  I would highly recommend this book as a course text.  (And Richley, you can thank me for the positive review on mormon-l, if I ever find time to return).	2003-12-09
US	47757359	R3B2RL4O6H1WZ7	0139382356	308754411	Religion and Culture: An Anthropological Focus	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Lot of info; not all accurate	Summary:<br />The book is a collection of essays covering the anthropology of religion, ranging from theories to descriptions of the major world religions to their histories.<br /> <br />Comments:<br />The book is very long and covers a lot of material.  Alone it could serve as the text for a course on the anthropology of religion.  As I had two books for the course I took, I didn't read the entire book (it's over 400 very dense pages).  But the material I did read, mostly the chapters by Scupin himself, were not very impressive. <br /> <br />Two things bothered me.  First, Scupin doesn't ever mention rationalization or secularization in his discussion of religious modernization.  It's as though Scupin doesn't want to consider late 19th centuries ideas about the eventual decline and disappearance of religion.  I got the impression that Scupin was writing either to express his beliefs or to appeal to a religious audience.  Even if he doesn't agree with the ideas they merit discussion.<br /> <br />The second thing that bothered me was Scupin's treatment of the oppressive elements of religion.  Understandably, scholars are supposed to be objective and, ideally, they will treat religions fairly.  Scupin, however, presents many of these things in a positive light.  For instance, on p. 414 he discusses the resurgence of the wearing of the hijab among Muslim women.  Scupin argues that this is a demonstration of Muslim women's dissatisfaction with Western colonialism.  There is certainly a degree of this, but there are other elements to it and, it isn't universally an option for women.  To argue that it is just a political statement is to misconstrue what can be an oppressive element of certain cultures.<br /> <br />Overall, though the book is informative and contains a great deal of information, the treatment isn't entirely objective and can, at times, misconstrue elements of religions.  I should also note the the index isn't very comprehensive.  If you choose to use the book for a course in the anthropology of religion, I would suggest making it the sole course text.  However, I would also suggest that you supplement the text with information on the stuff that is missing (e.g. secularization and rationalization), as the book's treatment isn't complete.the anthropology of religion, I would suggest making it the sole course text. However, I would also suggest that you supplement the text with information on the stuff that is missing (e.g. secularization and rationalization), as the book's treatment isn't complete.	2003-12-09
US	47757359	R1712YZ1KWX1RS	0380776057	872596845	Runes in Ten Minutes	Books	2	3	7	N	N	Just make sure you are aware of what you are buying	Summary:<br />This book explains a variant, occult/pseudoscientific method of having questions answered, similar to Tarot, Palm Reading, or Fortune Tellers.<br />The book does teach you how to read runes in 10 minutes, but that is because reading runes is really just a game of chance combined with self-deceit.<br />Here's my version of 'Runes in 10 Seconds': (1) Put a bunch of Scrabble tiles in a bowl. (2) Ask a question. (3) Pick out a tile and make up whatever answer you want to your question based upon the tile you picked out.<br />The difference between my version and R.T. Kaser's is that mine uses Scrabble pieces and Kaser's uses archaic runes, though he does say you can substitute Scrabble pieces and get the same results (it's on p. ix if you don't believe me).  And, in a nutshell, that's the book!<br />My Comments:<br />If you believe that using runes to answer questions is a good way to get answers, then this is probably a good book for you.  Since I don't believe there is any power or magic or whatever you want to call it (mana) behind the runes, I don't plan on using the book for anything more than a party favor when I run out of other games to play (or maybe a coaster).  I bought the book during a phase when I was interested in occult religions.  I'm finally getting around to reading it and, niftily, it only took me ten minutes.  I've already spent more time on this review than on reading the book :)<br />I should point out two additional things.  First, Kaser does offer some additional information and guides for interpretation, but it all seemed kind of arbitrary to me, so you're probably just as well making up whatever answer you want as you are using his guides.  Second, there is a little bit of history on runes, but since Kaser doesn't actually reference anyone, I'm not sure I believe him.	2003-12-08
US	47757359	R2LLMEOMGTG1J6	1563894823	197065825	Uncle Sam (DC Comics Vertigo)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Thought-provoking; a little hard to follow	Summary:<br />The main character of the book is Uncle Sam; yes, that's right, the Uncle Sam that has been used as a symbol of the U.S.A. for over a hundred years.  But the Uncle Sam we follow through the book isn't the proud, clean cut, aging Uncle that always seems so forthright and bold.  Instead, he is a drunken bum that has lost all sense of who he is and what he stands for.  It is only through a series of flashbacks (to the revolutionary war, to the slaughtering of Native American Indians, and to numerous other times and places, both real and fictitious), that Sam realizes who he once was and the potential he once possessed.  The climax of the book is a showdown between the real Uncle Sam, the one who stands for freedom, liberty, and democracy, and an imposter, who represents the interests of big business and political sell-outs.  The real Uncle Sam wins, but only because he is able to destroy the fake Uncle Sam's fraudulent front by helping modern Americans realize they are being deceived on numerous fronts, including the media and advertising.<br /><br />My Comments:<br />Uncle Sam is essentially an extended comic book, which I wasn't quite expecting. Despite agreeing with the basic premise (at least, my interpretation of the intended premise, which is outlined above), I wasn't wholly impressed by the book.<br /><br />The main reason I was not impressed is because the authors, though they obviously have an agenda, don't make it very clear at times.  Sometimes it seems like they are trying to criticize everything about America and at other times it seems like they are trying to say that America is a great country.  For instance, the authors level a strong criticism at Caucasians (the majority of Americans), \\"The white men do not scalp the head.  They do worse.  They poison the heart.\\"  Then the authors turn around and say stuff like, \\"At that point, America had two options.  Either correct our mistakes and learn from them... or live behind a wall held togetherwith cynicism and brute force and deny everything.\\"  So, which is it?  Are Caucasians really the problem (a claim similar to Michael Moore's in `Stupid White Men', which, ironically, suffers from the same ambiguity) or have Americans just made some mistakes and still have the potential for greatness? (Note, I'm not equating American and Caucasian; that implication is made by the authors.)  The book doesn't have a definitive answer.<br /><br />My second criticism is that the story is a bit hard to follow.  The slightest thing can launch Sam into the past or bring him back to the future or even send him into some nether region where national mascots (Brittania, Columbia, etc.) actually exist.  You don't ever really know where he is going, and it takes at least a few scenes in order to figure it out.  Sometimes it never really even makes sense why he went there in the first place, other than perhaps to make a seemingly unrelated point (e.g., backstabbing Indians).<br /><br />The book is generally engaging, but because it is hard to follow and isn't always completely clear, I don't think this is a great novel.  Yes, the graphics are pretty cool.  And it's nice that there is an effort made to criticize America by pointing out some remediable problems.  But the arguments could have been clearer.  I generally recommend this novel, but warn potential readers that it isn't very clear.	2003-12-04
US	47757359	R2VS87J9LKTWK7	0787290491	768094170	Population Geography: Problems, Concepts and Prospects	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Decent text, but over emphasizes biases	Summary:<BR>This is a textbook on demography (a.k.a. population geography).  The book covers the major topics in the field, including birth, death, population growth, etc.  <br />Comments:<BR>This was the textbook used in a course on demography I recently completed.  The main criticism I have of the book is two-part: (1) It spends a lot of time talking about how bad population growth is. (2) In talking so much about population growth, the book wastes time that could be spent explaining common demographic techniques.<br />1. Though I agree that population growth is a problem for the entire world, I was surprised at the degree to which this was the focus of the text.  Yes, I understand, this is a book about populations, but almost the entire book decries population growth.  There is also very little discussion of counter-perspectives (why population growth would be a good thing).  Essentially, the text begins with the perspective that population growth is bad, &quot;As a species, we have certainly demonstrated our capacity for successful reproduction but it may well be time for us to restrain ourselves before we find a way to destroy our own ecological niche (though not the world-it could get along quite well without us, as it did for most of its history)&quot; (p. 6), and continues this motif throughout, &quot;a reminder that political economy, not food supply limitations, result in a current world in which perhaps 800 million people have either nutritionally inadequate diets or not enough food to eat. Hunger amidst plenty still exists, and it will so long as grinding poverty leaves millions unable to purchase enough food for their needs, even if it is readily available&quot; (p. 336).  Don't get me wrong, I have no problem with textbook authors and scientists having opinions on issues, but I think the focus on the issues in this text was so extensive that it resulted in a failure to adequately explain the methodology used at arriving at these conclusions.<br />2. Thankfully my instructor spent a good deal of time explaining the methodology of demography.  Frankly, I think it is important to know the difference between a crude birth rate and a total fertility rate and why both measures are important when trying to demographically describe a population.  The text limits this discussion to about 2 pages.  That really isn't adequate.  <br />Overall, I think this text is alarming.  The basic argument is that the world is currently experiencing a population explosion that may result in eventual devastation when the population exceeds the available food supply.  Just because populations in developed countries aren't growing rapidly - the U.S. being the exception - doesn't mean populations in undeveloped countries are not; they are, and at an incredible pace.  The authors argue that we can either take steps now to prevent the famines and scarcity that will ultimately result from population increase, killing millions in the process, and work toward a more stable and sustainable population, or we can wait for the cookie to crumble, as it inevitably must, and experience the suffering.  Though I agree this is a pressing issue, I wish the authors would have spent more time discussing the methodologies and theories of demography rather than their particular perspectives on the foreboding doom.  Yes, it's inevitable.  Yes, current U.S. government administrations are doing nothing to prevent and, in fact, are exacerbating the problem.  And, perhaps, spending the entire text talking about this is the only way for people to finally realize that there is a problem.  But for those of us that recognize it as a problem, it would be nice to know how to replicate demographic studies and do some of the analysis ourselves.	2003-11-28
US	47757359	R378L26EIDM9UA	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Better written than I expected; perhaps a bit too long	Summary:<BR>The basic argument of `Stupid White Men' is that most of the ills of society can be attributed to oppressive, white men.  Despite focusing primarily on Republicans and most especially on what Moore considers to be the `stolen' election by George Bush, Moore does not overlook the Democrats and their sketchy record.  Much of this ire is aimed at the surprisingly pathetic career of Bill Clinton who, according to Moore, despite talking the talk, didn't walk the walk of social democracy.<br />Moore also discusses several other issues, including the continued racism in the U.S., conflict in the Middle East, and his involvement in the Florida election debacle and convoluted support for Ralph Nader.  <br />The format of the book varies from informal prose to several letters by Moore to political leaders and bodies, including George Bush, Yassar Arafat, and Secretary General of the U.N., Kofi Annan.<br />The ultimate political conclusion of the book can be summed up by a quote from the book itself, \\"There are about 200-plus million of us who would like to see a real two-party system (or three-party, or four-party - hey, it's a big country!), with one party fighting for the right to write off one's backyard tennis court as a business expense and the other fighting for the right to see a doctor if one gets sick.  It really is that simple\\" (p. 225).  In essence, Moore is arguing that the rich can fight for their luxuries, but they need to at least afford the poor the same opportunity.  As for the Democrats, despite pretending to be the representatives of progressive socialism in this country, they have sold out to big money, leaving the poor of this country without representation.<br />My Comments:<BR>I think Moore makes a lot of great points.  There are, however, several menial things about this book that bothered me.  <br />First, why is Michael Moore qualified to write this book?  Before you crucify me for evaluating a piece of work on the credentials of the creator, hear me out.  Moore readily admits that he doesn't have a college degree of any sort (either graduate or undergraduate).  I'm okay with that, I really am.  But without any credentials, I would really like to know why Moore is qualified to write this?  Has he spent years and years studying politics?  Has he held political office?  Does he have some sort of insider perspective?  I should probably admit here that I am just finishing my Master's degree and am beginning work on a PhD, so I may be a bit biased.  Nevertheless, I would be a bit more trusting of Moore's perspective if he were to explain why he is qualified to write this book.  Even if he just argues that he is qualified because he is a politically active citizen of the U.S., I would accept that, but I'm hesitant to just accept any Joe Shmoe's opinions on politics.<br />The second problem I had with the book is that Moore never really explains why whites are a/the problem.  Yes, his point is well taken that whites have been responsible for a lot of problems, but haven't they also been responsible for a lot of societal advances (advances Moore doesn't point out)?  And isn't Michael Moore white?  Just as he didn't make explicit connections between his conceptual points (ownership of guns and violent crimes) in Bowling for Columbine, Moore doesn't make any clear connections between why whites are a problem.  Given the title, you would think that Moore is, in some sense, attacking the white race.  Obviously, he isn't going that far, but he doesn't really say why the race of these alleged `perpetrators' is really a big deal. Is there still racism in the U.S.?  Sure, I won't deny that.  But by claiming whites are the problem (or at least white leadership), isn't Moore really just making matters worse?  Why doesn't he say what he really means?  The bourgeoisie continue to exploit the proletariat, and because money tends to pass from generation to generation at the same socioeconomic level and originally it waswhites that had had the money (while brutally enslaving blacks), it just so happens that whites continue to dominate.  This really doesn't have anything to do with race.  It has everything to do with political leaders (who are predominantly white) selling out. <br />Don't get me wrong.  I think Moore is making some really good points.  But I think he used the title to sell books, despite it not really being the issue he is addressing.  Overall, I think Moore should be commended for being forthright.  Many of the points he makes are good points.  I would have liked to see Moore explicitly cite references, but I can understand that in popular literature that just isn't the norm.  <br />In short, this is a provocative book aimed at getting people to think.  Though not always perfectly clear, the basic points are good ones.  If you're a political conservative, you may not like the book, but you may still want to read it just to see what the opposition is saying.  If you're the liberal opposition, instead of complaining about the format, you may want to appreciate the fact that the book is popular and perhaps being used as a tool to gain converts toward your cause.	2003-10-31
US	47757359	R2HXO9FJBVJ91Y	0140254587	694403107	Salvation on Sand Mountain: Snake-Handling and Redemption in Southern Appalachia	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Fascinating journalism	Summary:<BR>Dennis Covington, the author and main character in the book, became inolved with snake handling in Appalachia when he volunteered to cover the trial of a well-known snake handler who had used his snakes to attempt to kill his wife.  <br />Though he had not intended to get involved with the snake handlers when he began his investigations, he ultimately did, to the point that he eventually handled one of the snakes himself and became a close friend and confidant to many of the snake handlers.  The book tells the story of how he became involved with Appalachian snake handlers, became a part of their world, and eventually disassociated himself from them, during the early 1990s.  <br />Comments:<BR>The book is fascinating to read.  I did, however, not agree with one of the primary assertions of the author, but more on that below.  The book is well-written, entertaining, and at times even humorous.  For example, the author offers this exchange between himself and a snake handling preacher, \\"His grip tightened on my shoulder. \\"He [God]spoke a twelve-hour message to me on one word: polluted.\\" \\"Polluted?\\" \\"Yes. Polluted. Now, you think about that for a minute.  A twelve-hour message.\\" I thought about it for a minute, and then decided Brother Charles was out of his mind\\" (p. 65).<br />Perhaps the biggest offering this book makes is the author's ability to bring the South alive through brilliant imagery.  \\"Scottsboro, Alabama, is Southern, but not in the way you'd expect.  It doesn't have a cotton gin in ruins by the railroad tracks or a dusty avenue lined with magnolia trees and Greek revival homes\\" (p. 21).  I also was very impressed by the authors characterizations, \\"I saw now that the unnerving cast to the men's faces was probably just inflexibility, an unwillingness to give themselves up to public emotion.  It had to do not so much with their religion, I reasoned, as with their poverty\\" (p. 36). <br />Despite the great writing, there is one major problem with the book: the implication the author makes about modern, secular society. \\"The lure of the secular and worldly in a region once characterized as the Bible Belt has left a residue of rootlessness, anxiety, and lawlessness\\" (p. 24).  This theme comes up numerous times throughout the book. I'm inclined to see this as a bit short-sighted.  Yes, there are sociological theories that talk about the blasé urbanite, and the decline in mechanical solidarity, but there are also numerous theories that explore the new types of society that result from modernization and urbanization, including organic solidarity and the replacement of religious solidarity with organizational solidarity.  In my opinion, the benefits of modern society and the seperation between the secular and the religious far outweight the consequences (if there be any).  Given the personal involvement of the author in religion, it makes sense that he defends what he sees as declines in certain elements of society, but to the secular humanist, these things are not declines but pathways to the future being forged through the disassociation of religious beliefs based in irrationality from the awe-inspiring advances brought about through rationality.<BR> <BR>Even though I didn't agree with the authors assertions about the negative influences of secularization on society, I was impressed by his explanations given for spirituality and the involvement of the snake handlers in their particular form of religious worship.  <BR> \\"I knew then why the handlers took up serpents.  There is power in the act of disappearing; there is victory in the loss of self.  It must be close to our conception of paradise, what it's like before you're born or after you die\\" (p. 168).  I'm not sure that I can personally relate to what the author was trying to describe, but given his participation in the activity, I'm inclined to believe him.<BR> <BR>Overall, the book is a well-written look inside the snake handling practices in Appalachia.  It does include some excellent pictures, taken by some of the author's friends/associates.  The book is well-written and very entertaining, but I believe it wrongly characterizes the effects of secularization, despite offering an enlightening understanding of the motivations of snake handlers.  If you've ever wondered what these people are like, I would highly recommend this book.	2003-10-13
US	47757359	R3EI4OZYAO7Y4	0252023811	4811918	Adventures of a Church Historian	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Should be required reading for Mormons!!	Summary:<BR>The book is an autobiography of Leonard Arrington who was primarily a historian, but also an economist. Along with serving as Church Historian during the mid 1970s, Arrington was also highly influential in the creation and perpetuation of several early organizations interested in the scholarly study of Mormonism, including Dialogue and the Mormon History Association.<BR><BR>The book focuses on Arrington's scholarly work and his time spent as Church Historian, but also incorporates brief sketches of his family life and some of the things he did outside of work - though they are mostly Church related.<BR><BR>Comments:<BR>This book is a fascinating look inside the Mormon Church, specifically its Salt Lake based hierarchy and their policies concerning history and scholarly analysis of Mormonism. For the most part the book is well-written. The biggest problem on this front is that the book could have used at least one more editorial pass as there are numerous typos and even one section where Arrington describes an event in almost identical fashion within three paragraphs (p. 87 \\"After the session where we were sustained, many friends and former associates came up to congratulate us and shake our hands...\\" repeated on p. 88).<BR><BR>There are only two other critiques I would level at the book. First, the book jumps around quite a bit, from his academics to his family and back again, sometimes from paragraph to paragraph. I understand the difficulty in trying to report both dimensions of one's life in a coherent picture, but it made for difficult reading at times. Second, there are several points when the normally lucid writing turns into a bibliography. This probably would have been better presented as a chronological bibliography in the back of the book to which the author could have periodically referred as he covered that period. Though these things are a bit distracting and can even make for dissonant and boring reading at times, the majority ofthe book is not in this vein.<BR><BR>As for positive elements of the book, there are three quick ones that should be noted. First, the book can serve as a primer for a novice of Mormon history. There are numerous allusions to fascinating periods in Mormon history, but they are brief. It will whet the appetite, but does not satisfy; for that you need to read the author's other books (and those of D. Michael Quinn, among others). Also, Arrington has a sense of humor. Though it is a bit spread out, he can be very funny and even a bit satirical. You may have to look closely if you are not familiar with Mormon intellectuals and the `New Mormon History', but the humor is there nonetheless. Finally, there are pictures! I love pictures. They help the people come to life. There aren't many and they aren't in color, but there are a few.<BR><BR>There were several other things that I really liked about this book. First, it shows that you can intellectually and intelligently examine Mormonism and remain a Mormon (even though I didn't choose that route). I think a lot of people are afraid to do this because of the fear of apostasy (my route), but I don't claim to know even a hundredth of what Arrington learned during the course of his life about Mormonism and he remained a faithful member. I would think this book could function to encourage more Mormons to seriously study their religious history and beliefs so as to be more tolerant of differences of opinion and other religions. This is part of the reason why I would recommend this book for every Mormon.<BR><BR>I also found Arrington's subtle critiques of the Mormon hierarchy to be about as kind as you can possibly be while still recognizing the rampant anti-scientism many of them espouse. Arrington does his best to justify the behaviors of some of the leaders of the Church and is very fair in balancing the ignorance of some (Packer), with the enlightened thinking of others (Kimball). One point I found particularly interesting here was the positive depiction of Bruce R. McConkie, who is rather notorious for encouraging orthodox Mormon views, but apparently was wholly accepting of the work Arrington was trying to do. Point for McConkie!<BR><BR>Overall, as noted before, I think every Mormon and scholar of Mormonism should read this book. It is a marvelous contrast of two opposing forces: (1) the faith-affirming approach of Mormonism in particular and religion in general that does not always advocate fair and objective scholarship, and (2) the attempt at objective and unbiased scholarship of the modern secular academy. Leonard Arrington apparently found a way to walk a very fine line between the two and, frankly, I applaud his success. However, I recognize that the line is very fine and can understand why more people don't walk it (myself included). Nevertheless, this book can serve as a model for how that line can be negotiated and I would highly recommend it.	2003-10-09
US	47757359	R8DE9U8J0HY83	0884946010	130817607	Life Beyond	Books	1	1	13	N	N	lot of opinions; some okay theological history	Summary:<br />The book is supposed to be a discussion of the pre-existence and the post-mortal existence based on Mormon theology, both canonical and that taught by the leadership of the Church outside of the canon of Mormon scripture.<br />The basic Mormon understanding is that all humans are spiritual children of God the Father (and his wife/wives).  They lived with him before coming to earth as mortals.  Mortality is a trial that will determine if you get to return to live with him when you die.  When you die you undergo a pretrial judgment and end up either in spirit paradise or spirit prison to await the resurrection.  At the end of the resurrection (or kind of in the middle of it somewhere as Mormons believe it has already begun), you are judged for a second and final time and this determines your place in the heavens.<br />I should also note a couple more things about the contents.  There is absolutely no discussion of Outer Darkness or Sons of Perdition (that's me!).  Also, the last chapter turns to a bunch of apocryphal books to try to find quotes that bolster the teachings of Joseph Smith about 'the life beyond'.<br />My Comments:<br />I think I'll begin my comments by revealing the biases of the authors from the beginning, \\"This book is affectionately dedicated to Elder Bruce R. McConkie (1915-1985), from whom we inherited a love for these principles and the desire to teach and testify of them.\\" Given the extreme conservative stance of Elder McConkie, I think you can see where this book is going from the very beginning.<br />Jumping right into the real heart of the matter, the authors then set up the format of their chapters.  Every chapter begins by attacking any religion that is not Mormonism, \\"To obtain salvation in this life men must accept the prophets the Lord has called and commissioned to declare the gospel in their own generation.  There is no salvation for a man living today who rejects the testimony of Joseph Smith while professing loyalty to Peter, James, and John\\" (p. 55). Similar thoughts begin all of the other chapters.  The basic message that a non-Mormon believer would get from reading this book is that they are going straight to hell for having not accepted a belief in Joseph Smith and his teachings.  The attacks tend to implicate other Christians, but I don't think they are really limited to just Christians, after all, it is the basic understanding in Mormonism that there are only two religions, Mormonism (which is the church of God), and all other religions (which are the churches of Satan). I should stipulate that not all Mormons think this way, but a large part, likely due to books like these, do believe this way.<br />The authors also have a bad habit of introducing questions that would be considered 'deep doctrine' by most Mormons then either not answering the questions or giving answers that aren't doctrinal. The only real 'answers' given in the book are the things anyone can read in Mormon Principles, which is a rudimentary guide to understanding Mormon theology.  There are actually several examples that could be given of the erroneous 'deep answers' to 'deep questions'.  One is the idea that there is no possibility for people to choose not to follow God or the Mormon plan in the after life if they choose to live it here.  According to the authors there is absolutely no free will in the hereafter, what you attained here is what you are stuck with there - period.  I don't know where else this is taught in Mormon doctrine, but I found it to be pretty silly.<br />I do have to admit that the authors' historical accounts surrounding the revealing of some of these doctrines is probably somewhat worthwhile to the Mormon reader.  Of course, their history is strictly faith-promoting and leaves out any 'convenience' or 'necessity' explanations for revelations that skeptics would be more likely to see, but I guess that is forgivable given the aims of the book.<br />I don't think this book helped mebecome any more informed about the Mormon conception of the pre-existence and the post-mortal life than I was going into it.  Of course, I could probably say that having studied these things quite a bit this isn't really surprising and that for many Mormons this might actually give them a better understanding of these things.  But I'm hesitant to even do that, given that there is a much more interesting book out there that is also faith-affirming and does delve into 'deep doctrines', 'Life Everlasting', by Duane S. Crowther.  If you can get your hands on a copy, I would highly recommend it instead of this book.  The author does a fairly decent job of noting when what he is saying is doctrinal and when it is just his opinion based upon evidence (the authors of this book don't really ever say anything is 'just their opinion').<br />Overall, this book really spends more time trying to illustrate that Mormons are right then expounding upon what is supposed to be the topic of the book.  The tone is very much exclusivist and elitist and avoids anything that might actually be of interest to Mormons that want to expand their knowledge about the topic by focusing on very fundamental doctrine with a little bit of history to go along with it.  If you insist on reading faith-affirming Mormon literature, read Crowther's book instead.  The only thing this book is good for is to bolster the Mormon ego by continuously reinforcing that Mormons are the best and the only religion that is going to be saved.ecome any more informed about the Mormon conception of the pre-existence and the post-mortal life than I was going into it.  Of course, I could probably say that having studied these things quite a bit this isn't really surprising and that for many Mormons this might actually give them a better understanding of these things.  But I'm hesitant to even do that, given that there is a much more interesting book out there that is also faith-affirming and does delve into 'deep doctrines', 'Life Everlasting', by Duane S. Crowther.  If you can get your hands on a copy, I would highly recommend it instead of this book.  The author does a fairly decent job of noting when what he is saying is doctrinal and when it is just his opinion based upon evidence (the authors of this book don't really ever say anything is 'just their opinion').  <br />Overall, this book really spends more time trying to illustrate that Mormons are right then expounding upon what is supposed to be the topic of the book.  The tone is very much exclusivist and elitist and avoids anything that might actually be of interest to Mormons that want to expand their knowledge about the topic by focusing on very fundamental doctrine with a little bit of history to go along with it.  If you insist on reading faith-affirming Mormon literature, read Crowther's book instead.  The only thing this book is good for is to bolster the Mormon ego by continuously reinforcing that Mormons are the best and the only religion that is going to be saved.	2003-09-10
US	47757359	R2TQZCLOHZ95F5	0679457895	506174805	Executive Orders (Tom Clancy)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	decent novel, Clancy has written better	Summary:<BR>'Executive Orders' opens with Jack Ryan, the hero of numerous Clancy novels, having suddenly found himself President of the United States as the result of a terrorist attack that killed most of Congress and the President that appointed Ryan as his vice-president.  <br />He is immediately launched into several crises as a terrorist organization, sponsored by the Iranian government, brings the e-bola virus to the U.S., introducing an outbreak.  At the same time, the Iranian government, who is in cahoots with India, China, and Japan, is also taking over Iraq after having assassinated the leader.  The world is on the cusp of major problems and the leader of the most powerful nation, arriving there without having been elected, has to answer the call.  But, what's more, the former vice-president, who resigned because of a sex scandal, now claims that he should technically be the vice-president. <br />Jack Ryan holds up under the pressure, but in order to bring the U.S. under control he has to enact martial law, closing down numerous major cities to prevent the spread of e-bola.  He also sends John Clark and some other members of Rainbow Six into Iran to assassinate the person running the show.  When everything comes to a close, e-bola is contained, the quasi-hostile takeover of Iraq is stopped, and everything returns to normal.<br />My Comments:<BR>The book wasn't too bad, but I really didn't see why the takeover of Iraq by Iran was such a big deal.  Sure, international politics are sensitive and tricky, but considering the stability of the Iranian government, as opposed to the Iraqi government, I can't see how it's so bad that the government fell (maybe I'm naive, I don't claim expertise on international politics).<br />There is also a lack of focus on Jack Ryan, as most of these later books have done.  Ryan disappears from the foreground into the mix of characters and doesn't really appear to be the primary focus of the novel.  The novel also jumps around from character to character, introducing one for just a scene or a chapter, then never really returning to them.<br />Most of these problems may be addressed in the actual novel, which is quite lengthy.  But the abridged, CD version, which is the one I listened to, just doesn't give this story the depth that it really needs.  As is the case with most of these later novels (which I happened to listen to one right after another, but in the reverse order), the CD versions were just not as well-developed as a good novel should be.  You'll have to look for a different review on the actual novel, but I definitely wouldn't recommend the CD version - it just doesn't give a very good version of the story.	2003-09-07
US	47757359	R29I2R573TDQWQ	0671046179	815342548	Blood And Smoke Cd	Books	4	2	2	N	N	good short stories, but that's all they are	Summary:<BR>&quot;Lunch at the Gotham Café&quot; - Steve Davis shows up for a lunch meeting with his ex-wife and her lawyer but ends up facing down a psycho maitre'd who goes berserk for no reason.<br />&quot;1408&quot; - Mike Enslin, a best-selling author of a number of ghost story books (he is actually a ghost-story debunker) decides to spend the night in what is supposed to be a haunted hotel room in New York City.  A skeptical introduction turns into a nightmare as Mike finds out that this one is the real deal.<br />&quot;In the Deathroom&quot; - Fletcher, a U.S. citizen in Central America, is brought in by the police of the country because of his affiliation with some insurgents.  He is introduced to a torture device, but pulls a quick one and gets away, then uses the device on his captors.<br />My Comments:<BR>These were pretty good stories.  As is the case with most short stories, there isn't much depth to these stories, but they are pretty interesting nonetheless.  I would definitely recommend them for anyone who likes Stephen King and is looking for some good short stories.	2003-09-07
US	47757359	R2SVZFYDW2U5OE	0375415831	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (Tom Clancy)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	lacked depth and focus	Summary:<BR>I listened to this book on CD, which might explain why I don't have all of the details and didn't find the book too convincing.<br />Jack Ryan, now President of the U.S., finds himself in the midst of a major crisis as a failed assassination on the head of the Soviet SVR (formerly the KGB) is closely followed by the announcements of the discovery of gold and oil in Russian controlled Siberia as well as an increase in troop movements on China's northern border.  <br />Ryan's associates, along with the help of a number of well located spies and CIA agents, including John Clark, accurately predict what China is doing, step-by-step, and are constantly ahead of them.  Though the Russian army stationed in Siberia is out-manned and out-gunned, with the help of emergency troops, propaganda, and spy planes sent in by the U.S., they are able to essentially cut off and then destroy the army China has sent into Siberia to claim the newly found gold and oil.  <br />At the same time, Ryan's associates are also able to foil a plot on his own life and the story ends with the leadership of China being transformed from a despotic communism to democracy.  Jack Ryan wins again.<br />My Comments:<BR>As noted above, I listened to this book on CD.  Apparently the paperback book has over 1,000 pages.  I think most of my criticisms might be addressed by the fact that the version I listened to was abridged.  So, you may want to read the book instead of listening to the CDs after you read what I have to say.<br />The first problem with this novel is that it tries to present an epic-sized battle with massive troop movements in a 'world-war' type scenario, but doesn't really get into the thick of it.  There are a few chapters from the perspective of the leaders of the different forces on the ground, but they are so sparse that you really don't get a feel for what is going on.  There is also a lot of intrigue going on in the FBI, CIA, SVR, and the leaderships of all of the countriesinvolved (Russia, the U.S., and China), but the coverage of all of this is very shallow - you don't really get a sense that the author has a clue what he's taling about.  This may be because the CD version is abridged, but there just wasn't any real development of the war and everything that would go into.<br />Another problem was that this novel, despite supposedly being another in the Jack Ryan series, spends all of about 30 minutes actually following Jack Ryan.  I didn't feel like Ryan was the focus of the story at all.  Perhaps, as noted numerous times now, this is taken care of in the actual novel, but I was definitely not impressed with the treatment of Ryan.  As for the rest of the characters, the only one that really sees any development is the Japanese spy who develops a relationship with a secretary of one of the leaders of the Chinese government.  I actually felt like I knew him better than the rest of the characters in the novel.<br />Overall, this may be a good novel, but definitely not in this format.  I think I'd like to read the novel to really compare the two, but I definitely wouldn't recommend this version.	2003-09-07
US	47757359	R5IWT32IBSNAO	0743520963	124087136	From A Buick 8: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stephen King is amazing; the story isn't quite	Summary:<BR>Ned Wilcox is the son of a former trooper of Pennsylvania State Patrol Troop D, Curt Wilcox, who was killed in the line of duty by a drunk driver in 2001.  In an effort to come to grips with his father's passing, Ned begins spending a lot of time around the barracks.  As he spends more and more time there he begins to become like a member of the force and eventually is accepted into their ranks as a telephone operator for the summer before he is to go to college.  <br />The present story (a large part of the book is told as backflashes to the past) takes place during the summer when Ned is working at the barracks.  Sandy Dearborn, who is now the commanding sergeant, decides one day to tell Ned about the mystery of Troop D, which also happened to be the pet project of Ned's father Curt - The Buick 8 Roadmaster kept behind the barracks in Shed B.  <br />The Buick showed up at a gas station one day in 1979 but isn't a normal Buick.  The engine is fake, the exhaust system is made of glass, the wheels don't turn, etc.  What's more, the car cannot get dirty, can't be scratched, you can't really do anything to it, but it can do things to you.  Every now and then, without any explanation as to why, the Buick will seemingly come alive, shooting lightning bright bolts through the air (though they are for the most part harmless) and act as some sort of a portal between Earth and some other planet or dimension where things are very different.  Occasionally it sucks something from Earth through the portal (it sucked Curt Wilcox's partner Ennis Rafferty through just after they found the car and later sucked a criminal through, Brian Lippy, among other things, including a number of other animals) and at other times it delivers things from the other side, including animals, plants, and even alien 'monsters'.  <br />Over the years, Curt, Sandy, and the former commander, Tony Schoondist, performed a number of experiments on the car and even dissected a number of the creatures that came through from the other side.  The problem is that despite their investigations they were never really able to figure anything out other than the fact that when the temperature drops in Shed B, where the car is stored, it is likely that the car is going to do something.  <br />As the recounting of the events surrounding the Buick comes to a close, Ned seems disturbed.  He claims that he is going to go home, but ends up doubling back and dousing the Buick with gasoline.  He is going to try to destroy the car because he believes it is what killed his father.  Sandy eventually gets him out of the car, but only barely in time to save him from falling through to certain death on the other side of the portal when the car becomes active.  <br />Eventually Ned seems to accept his father's death, but college isn't right for him and he returns to work at Troop D, in essence taking his father's place. The book ends with one of the troopers committing suicide and the Buick beginning to show signs of wear as though its magical powers are finally wearing off.<br />My Comments:<BR>In retrospect the story is good, but not a stand out. There is no amazing ending, though there is kind of climax when Ned tries to destroy the car.  But what the story does have going for it is Stephen King's writing style.  He really is a brilliant writer.  I was enthralled just to listen to the book.  <br />There are a couple of problems, the biggest being the transitions between characters.  I thought it was an interesting method of telling the story, periodically switching from Sandy's perspective and voice to that of one of the other troopers or participants in the history of the Buick, but sometimes it got a little confusing.  Also, because I was listening to this on CD as I was driving I was generally annoyed by the different voices.  The actors on the CD did a decent job of portraying different voices, but it was still a little distracting.  I think the book would have flowed betterhad the author stuck to just one voice.<br />Also, as I mentioned above, the ending is a bit anti-climactic.  But I think that is actually for a reason - sometimes you just don't understand things and, well, that's it.  I think that is really the point with this story (it isn't always subtle as Sandy tries to get Ned to understand this point numerous times).  Of course, this introduces another problem, which really did kind of bother me about the book: Why didn't the members of Troop B ever turn this over to a university for real study?  Just because we don't understand something doesn't mean we can't ever understand it.  I understand that this wouldn't have worked as well as a story if upon seizing the vehicle and discovering its mysterious powers they had immediately handed it over to someone that had a clue, but it's what I would have done.<br />Overall, the book is engaging because it doesn't really reveal everything about the Buick until the very end.  But, I have to admit that by half way through the novel you have been exposed to just about everything.  I think I kept waiting for something even bigger to happen, but it never did.  The book is remarkably well-written (other than the character changes) and has a pretty good plot idea, but it kind of fizzles in the end.  I would still recommend this book for any Stephen King fan or for anyone that would like to read a Stephen King novel that doesn't have the sex that he often throws into the mix.  I really liked the book but believe it could have been better.	2003-09-03
US	47757359	RY21XKBO5O39Z	0933413009	243666329	The Lord's question: A call to come unto him	Books	1	1	35	N	N	very poorly written; makes very little sense	Summary:<br />The book is essentially made up of the philosophical ramblings of the author on 10 questions found in the LDS scriptures: (1) Where Art Thou? (2) Do Not I Fill Heaven and Earth?  (3) What Mean the Testimonies?  (4) Whom Shall I Send?  (5) Fear Ye Not Me?  (6) Knowest Though the Condescension of God?  (7) Wherein Have I Wearied Thee?  (8) Is Not the Life More Than Meat? (9) Will ye Also Go Away?  (10) Whom Seekest Thou?<br />In these ten questions he seems to find the impetus to explore and repeat all of the advice that was being offered by the Mormon leadership during the early 1980s.<br />My Comments:<br />First, it took me until the end of the first chapter to begin to understand that the author was including as 'The Lord's Question' (which is singular) any question asked in the scriptures that causes one to self-scrutinize.  I may be misinterpreting that because the author never really comes right out and says what he means by 'The Lord's Question', but I think I'm on the right track.  Anyway, that may actually be somewhat helpful to anyone that chooses to read this.<br />Of course me having to explain what the author meant despite profoundly disagreeing with him on pretty much every point he makes leads me to the next point.  This book lacks any clear format, specified aim, or direction.  I had no idea what it was the author was trying to do. In the end it just seemed like a collection of rambling essays that some editor thought could be organized into chapters using questions.  There is no organization to this book whatsoever.  Perhaps some people interpret that to be philosophical but I am more inclined to consider it [bad]writing.<br />Another element of this book I found particularly offensive was the author's elitist attitude .  Let me explain by using two example:<br />\\"These words give light; no one can see the world aright who does not see it in the light of God.\\" (p. 28)  I guess what the author is saying is if you don't have the light ofGod you see the world 'a-wrong'.<br />\\"It is not the multitude that serve and save the world but the righteous remnant that walk humbly before God.\\" (p. 40)  Again, the author is claiming that the 'righteous remnant' are the only people that do good.  This is a very prevalent attitude throughout the book and I found it to be very disturbing.  The author doesn't seem capable of recognizing that non-Mormons can also be 'good people'.<br />Do I have anything good to say about this book?  Yes, it's short so the pain of reading it doesn't last very long.<br />Overall, this is a very poorly written hodgepodge of elitist advice for Mormons.  It is supposed to be profoundly philosophical but instead I found it to be conspicuously naive, offensive, and anti-scientific.  If you are a Mormon looking for an ego trip, you may enjoy this book.  If you are anyone else, hopefully including Mormons that are a bit less egotistical and elitist, you should find this book very disturbing and tell everyone that you know how horrible it is.  I do not recommend it for anyone but elitist Mormons.	2003-08-18
US	47757359	R321DH8YLYLDXG	0743507606	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside the Special Forces (Study in Command)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Never really understood the format	Summary:<BR>The book is a combination of a personal history of Carl Stiner, the apparent co-author, and a look inside the history of the US special forces and several of their operations, both botched operations and successful ones (though ironically I don't seem to recall any real successful ones).<br />My Comments:<BR>I am fascinated by the US special forces.  As a result of this fascination I like reading spy novels and novels about special forces groups.  But this isn't a novel.  This is a very loosely arranged conglomeration of special forces history and personal anecdotes by Carl Stiner.  The organization of the material never actually makes sense.  It jumps around from talking about some of the forerunners of the special forces to recountings of actual missions and then back to other seemingly unrelated events and then to personal anecdotes.  If there was an organization I somehow missed it entirely.  This was hands down the biggest problem with the book and actually, for me anyway, made it rather boring to listen to because I never knew if I was going to be listening to a complete story (the events of a mission for instance) or if I was going to be hearing about stuff from Ranger training or the special forces handbook.  <br />What's more, when Clancy does recount the events of special forces operations he does so without any real suspense involved.  He pretty much tells you what the result of the operation was, then tells you everything that happened as it was pieced together afterwards for the official reports and not from the perspective of the special forces operatives involved - there is no suspense at all.<br />Overall, if you are looking for a suspense-laden Tom Clancy novel, this isn't the book for you.  If you are looking for a personal history of Carl Stiner, you'll be disappointed.  And if you are even looking for a coherent history of the special forces, you still won't be satisfied.  Clancy tries to accomplish a lot of things with this book, butbeing clear didn't seem to be a priority.  He should stick to fanciful novels where the good guys always win and stay away from actual historical accounts - he has no clue how to write them in order to make them interesting and coherent for the reader.	2003-08-02
US	47757359	R2CN2D1GWYKDNI	1559276606	321980030	Robert Ludlum's The Cassandra Compact: A Covert-One Novel	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Far-reaching spy novel that's too long	Summary:<BR>Jon Smith is a special agent for the president's top secret intelligence group Covert One, headed by Nathaniel Klein.  When a former Russian KGB agent who now works in BioOperat (where the Russians store their biological weapons, etc.) decides he needs to get out of Russia to tell Klein something he has found out, it is Jon Smith who is sent to help him.  Unbeknownst to Klein and Smith, this escape begins their involvement in a plot to steal a sample of smallpox and mutate it into a super virus that is virtually unstoppable.  <br />The plot is being perpetrated by the head of a major pharmaceutical company who is providing the scientific know-how and is working with several members of the US military who are providing cover, location, and muscle to get the job done.  Apparently the Cassandra Compact was dreamed up by all involved in order to give the US a super powerful biological weapon and once again place it at the top of the world's superpowers.  But the Compact didn't count on two things - Jon Smith and his ability to uncannily show up in the right place at the right time (lots of coincidences).  As a result, Jon Smith slowly foils the Compact and in so doing saves most of the good guys.<br />My Comments:<BR>I have to admit that the book kept my attention up until it entered outer space.  At that point there were two problems.  First, the CD started skipping so I missed some of what happened and second I began to think this story was never going to end.  Well, the CD skipping isn't the authors fault, but the incredibly unwieldy and rambling story is.  Like any good spy novel, this one jumps from continent to continent as though they were rocks in a pond resulting in so many locations that you eventually just give up on keeping them straight.  I always find it funny that money for travel is never an issue and Jon Smith, like so many other uber-spies, doesn't seem to ever need to sleep or go to the bathroom.  Also, there are so many characters involved with the plot that it takes almost 1/3 of the book just to be able to keep them straight.  <br />Though the resolution of the plot is for the most part satisfactory, there are some problems.  For instance, two of the major bad guys, a US military general and one of the leaders of the NSA die in a car crash, literally.  Sure, they were trying to escape being caught, but they are so preoccupied that they forget how to drive.  It's pretty silly actually.  Also, there are so many things that have gone on behind the story (like the building of the top secret hangar for destroying the space shuttle) that have to have happened in order for this story to take place that the story has a remarkably contrived feeling.  Of course, as an international spy thriller it's okay to be at least somewhat contrived, but this one really pushes the limits.  <br />My last problem with the novel was the main character.  Though there were some attempts to develop Jon Smith as a character, by the time the novel ended I really had no idea who he was, just that he was super good at figuring things out, shooting people, and that he had lost his wife/girlfriend to a virus in a previous novel.  There is almost no effort at backstory (though this could be because the version I listened to was abridged).  The only person I really ended up liking was Smith's friend, Peter Howell, who actually seemed to be a well-trained spy and was witty to boot.  Smith came across as more of a bumbling Mr. Magoo who slowly puts the pieces together but never actually seems to be a step ahead of the bad guys until the very end, and that is only by luck.<br />Overall, though the story kind of starts to grab your attention at the beginning, with such a non-developed character as Jon Smith on the loose, you quickly begin to lose interest.  Also, with the book ranging around the world and with so many other characters to try to remember, the scope of the novel is more what you would expect from a 1,000 page James Clavell treatise rather than a relatively short Ludlum novel.  Because it's so short, it just doesn't work.  Perhaps the actual novel is better, but the abridged CD version just didn't cut it for me.  I don't recommend this book.	2003-08-02
US	47757359	R50D59IVU0VBX	0613329740	692004518	Quidditch Through the Ages	Books	3	70	73	N	N	Funny, likely prized by serious Harry Potter fans	Summary:<BR>The book was published as a charitable publication; all of the proceeds are supposed to go to a charitable organization with the writing and publication costs being taken care of by donations. As for the contents, the book covers the history and rules of Quidditch and talks about some of the professional teams in Great Britain. <br />My Comments:<BR>First, the book is quite funny, with numerous humorous notes and stories. It is more reminiscent of Rowlings earlier Harry Potter novels than it is of numbers 4 and 5 that do have some funny elements but tend to be much more serious than the first three. <br />The book is also probably highly prized by Harry Potter fanatics because it further develops the already incredibly detailed magical/muggle world of the series. Rowling has accomplished something few other authors can claim - the creation of a credible world - and this is just another doorway into that world.<br />The only problem I could possibly see with this book is that it is hardly long enough to be called a book; it is more a monograph or pamphlet with its roughly 50 pages. Granted this is a fictitious history which means every detail and story has to be developed from scratch. What's more, it has to be incorporated into the existing stories and future stories. Nevertheless, this can only be described as a 'brief' history of Quidditch.<br />Overall, you can read the entire thing in about 30 minutes and if you are a die hard Harry Potter fan you'll probably appreciate it and find it disappointingly short. If not, it won't likely keep your interest like the novels will. I'd recommend it for die hard fans but be aware that it is short.	2003-07-28
US	47757359	R39UCF62C996RX	0385000162	598869217	Asylums: Essays on the Social Situation of Mental Patients and Other Inmates	Books	4	50	55	N	N	The definitive sociological treatise of total institutions	Summary:<BR>The contents of this book are really far too complex to summarize, but I will do my best.  There are two major points made in this text.  The first is the development of the concept of the total institution.  Goffman gives the following characteristics of total institutions: (1)  all aspects of life are conducted in the same place under the same authority; (2)  the individual is a member of a large cohort, all treated alike; (3)  all daily activities (over a 24-hour period) are tightly scheduled; (4) there is a sharp split between supervisors and lower participants; (5) information about the member's fate is withheld.  (p. 436)  The basic examples of total institutions are mental hospitals, prisons, and military boot camps, though there are numerous other institutions that could be considered total institutions as well.  Goffman doesn't leave his discussion of total institutions at a simple definition, he also describes nearly every aspect of total institutions, focusing primarily on the life of the inmates of the institutions (he also discusses the roles of the staff, but that isn't really the focus) and the effects of the institutional environment on the selves and identities of the inmates.  <br />The second major point in the text is Goffman's criticism of total institutions, which is really limited to the very last section in the book (though you could easily see an underlying criticism throughout).  Goffman's basic argument is that the total institution does several things to inmates (I should note that he is speaking specifically of mental hospitals here, though some of this could likely be applied to other institutions): First it stigmatizes the inmate, preventing them from being able to ever completely reintegrate into society afterwards.  Second, it forces a 'sick' identity on the inmate.  For some inmates, any problems or disorders they may (or may not) have are actually encouraged and/or emphasized in mental hospitals because of the culture and environment inside.  In a sense Goffman is actually arguing that total institutions create more problems then they solve by turning relatively normal people into mentally unhealthy people (a good fictitious example of this would be One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest).<br />Goffman's basis for his discussion and analysis is a period of time he spent in a mental hospital.  As an academic work, the book is also filled with references to previous literature and explanatory notes.<br />My Comments:<BR>I was actually introduced to Goffman in an advanced social theory course but it wasn't until I thought about applying the concept of total institutions to one of the institutions with which I am familiar that I actually read the book.  In researching the topic it appears that very little work has actually been done on total institutions (labeled as such) since Goffman's treatise (a lot of work has been done on prisons but it is in the criminology literature and does not generally refer to prisons as total institutions).  I did find several examples of papers applying this Weberian 'ideal type' to different institutions, including: Indian Reservations, Graduate School, and others.  <br />I think the reason why there is so little work following Goffman's treatise is because he is generally right, very clear, and remarkably insightful.  If he has pushed the concept to its limits then there really isn't any point in trying to push it any further.  In this sense, this book is comprehensive and very, very insightful.<br />But one of my reviews would not be complete without a criticism or two.  The only real criticisms I have are the length of the book and the organization.  The book is very long and, despite using a surprisingly large font, it takes quite a while to dig through the entire thing.  There is quite of bit of information that could potentially have been left out, but if he had, perhaps this wouldn't be the masterpiece it generally is considered to be.  Also, and Goffman recognizes this and apologizes for it in the beginning, the organization is kind of strange.  Rather than organizing the book as a book with distinct chapters it is actually just a compilation of 4 papers that he had previously published.  Some of the papers are massive (over 100 pages), but the problem is that there isn't a perfectly clear logic to the organization and there is absolutely no transition from one chapter/paper to the next.  This really is forgivable as an academic work, but it does make things a bit awkward for the reader.<br />Overall this book is superb.  Not only is it well-written (though perhaps at a rather advanced level) but it is incredibly insightful.  Obviously Goffman caught the essence of the concept because no one has really challenged his understandings since.  If you are looking for the sociological Symbolic Interactionist perspective on total institutions (mental hospitals specifically) or are just interested in what mental hospitals are really like (though this book is likely a bit dated), then look no further than Asylums.  I highly recommend this for anyone interested in these topics.	2003-07-07
US	47757359	R3QR5X1YLFJCDD	0130336769	645344601	The Meaning of Sociology: A Reader (7th Edition)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	comprehensive reader	I used this as a supplement to the John J. Macionis 9th edition Introduction to Sociology text.  To be completely honest I'm not sure that given similar circumstances I would use them both again.  The reason being that I taught a very condensed course (17 days of class, 13 actual lectures/discussion).  Because the class was so condensed I didn't feel that I could assign the students any more reading than a chapter from the Macionis text and a reading from this reader everyday.  Given a more drawn out course, say the traditional 10-week quarter, I can see where this reader would be more useful because you could assign multiple readings to each corresponding chapter in the introductory text and actually cover more than 13 of the 65 readings in the book.  Because I only covered about 13 of them I don't think I'll use this text in this format again (too expensive for 13 readings), opting instead to create a small packet of 10 articles or something along those lines.<br />As for the reader itself, I would say that about half of the included readings were superb and the other half ranged between mediocre and pretty poor.  For instance, most of the readings by Peter Berger (not Berger and Luckmann) were very clear, articulate, and downright humorous for a sociologist to read; I'm not sure my class found them as humorous, but they did seem to enjoy them.  <br />I also found in discussing the articles with my class that the articles that were most well-received, despite some students not agreeing with the methods or conclusions of the articles, were the articles that applied sociological understanding to real-world problems, for example the reading 'Fraternities and Rape on Campus' by Martin and Hummer resulted in a very lively and heated discussion.  <br />I can understand that Charon is trying to incorporate some more traditional readings in the reader in order to give the students a sense of what some classical sociological writing is like and also to give them an opportunity to read classical sociology.  It seems like a noble goal, but I'm not sure how effective it is.  Most of the excerpts he included were typically so short that they didn't really cover enough to get a good understanding of what the author was trying to get at (the exception being 'Human Nature' by Cooley).  For example, the excerpt by Berger and Luckmann on socialization was just a snippet from their wordy but fascinating treatise 'The Social Construction of Reality' and by no means gave an accurate or comprehensive understanding of what it was Berger and Luckmann were getting at.  Of course, my introduction to that text was actually an entire course focused on reading just that one book, so I'm kind of surprised that Charon would think a snippet would actually be useful to undergraduate students.<br />Overall I think the reader is designed to appeal to a broad array of sociology instructors by offering a little bit of everything (theory, application, critical sociology, etc.) but in so doing it becomes the task of the instructor to wade through the articles to find the ones that work for him/her.  I'm not sure there is another way to do it when trying to appeal to a large and varied group of instructors, so it can't really be honed in that sense.  Nevertheless, the reader does contain a number of classical works (e.g. 'The Saints and the Roughnecks' among others) that are both engaging and interesting to undergraduate students and work well as supplements to an introductory text.	2003-07-02
US	47757359	R15O7KXDNLWMUB	0130977632	510014088	Sociology (9th Edition)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Very well designed introductory text	Having just taught a course using this text I do have some opinions about it.<br />First, the positive.  Macionis has gone to great lengths to make the text interesting.  One way in which he has done this is by scattering numerous relevant pictures and artwork throughout every chapter; I actually had one student comment specifically about the artwork and how it was well chosen.  He has also included a number of very informative maps, tables and graphs, all in vibrant colors, that are designed in such a fashion that even first year undergraduate students with little or no background in sociology can understand them.  <br />As for the coverage of the text, it is fairly comprehensive, hitting upon all of the major social institutions of interest to sociologists and sub-disciplines within the field of sociology.  The text is also quite up to date for the most part, including references to recent world events (e.g. 9/11).<br />Now for the negative.  I should note at this point that despite having more critiques than compliments, I did find the text to be the best of a number of current introductory texts, these are just ways that I felt the book could have been improved.<br />First, the information isn't flawless.  Of course part of this criticism includes the fact that I disagree with the author on some points, but there are also several instances where the author makes claims without references to back them up and other claims that are either dated or simply erroneous.  I don't know that a textbook will ever be able to adequately cover all of the information necessary and do so flawlessly, so to critique the book on this measure is probably asking too much.  Besides, with how fluid sociological understanding is some of the claims in the text with which I disagree are controversial topics anyway.  Perhaps to remedy this Macionis could attempt to incorporate both sides of the argument as he tries to do when discussing sociological theory; at least, he does so to a degree(see my critique of his coverage social theory below).<br />Second, the attempts at offering a global perspective are rather limited.  Again, this may not be something that is easily remedied because information about large parts of the world just isn't as available as information about the U.S., or available at all for that matter.  And, of course, the text is written to be an introductory text in the U.S., so to focus on the U.S. does make sense in that regard.  I found this to be particularly lacking in light of the fact that Macionis claims to be something of a world traveler.  Even though he includes occasional snippets from his journeys, there are numerous opportunities to incorporate a more global perspective that are overlooked.  In an attempt to discourage ethnocentric American attitudes it would have been nice to have more information about the rest of the world and greater attempts could have been made to incorporate that information.<br />Third, the coverage of sociological theories is actually rather limited.  There is no chapter looking just at sociological theories.  Though the 'dominant' theories are included throughout (Structural-Functionalism, Symbolic Interactionism, and Conflict Theory), there is absolutely no discussion of Ethnomethodology, Conversation Analysis, Rational Choice Theory (there is a brief mention of this), World Systems Theory, Political Processes Theory, etc.  I can understand why the coverage would be limited: Exposing novices to too many theories would likely confuse them and there is limited space in the text, but to fail to even mention or briefly summarize many of these theories, though their advocates are fewer than those of the 'dominant' theories, dismisses a large body of understanding in the discipline.<br />My last criticism (I do have more, but I doubt anyone wants to read more) is relating to the supplementary materials included on the companion CD-ROM.  The CD does have some very useful information and a few exercises that might be useful to the students.  However, it also includes some word games that I thought would be more appropriate for 8th graders than college students.  Also, because I chose to present the course material using PowerPoint I would have preferred to have been able to copy and past some of the illustrative maps.  However, all of the maps included on the supplementary CD are in Flash and can't be easily imported into PowerPoint.  They would work great if you want to switch in between the two while teaching the class, but they don't work together very well.  <br />Overall, the text is pretty comprehensive, well-written, and engaging.  I don't particularly like making students pay this much for a text, but in order to get the engaging photos, artwork, and colorful graphs (which some would argue are worthless but I find to be helpful) you have to shell out the cash.  Is the text worth it?  Well, I guess it depends on your approach to introduction to sociology.  If you would rather cover some very specific areas in depth rather than many areas broadly, you would be better off with a different text or a reader of your own creation.  Or, if you don't belong to one of the three predominant theoretical approaches, continuously explaining your approach because Macionis doesn't incorporate it may become rather tedious.  If you don't fall into either of these categories you would probably find the text to be very useful.	2003-07-02
US	47757359	R353YAW67G4IT4	0130336769	645344601	The Meaning of Sociology: A Reader (7th Edition)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	comprehensive reader	I used this as a supplement to the John J. Macionis 9th edition Introduction to Sociology text.  To be completely honest I'm not sure that given similar circumstances I would use them both again.  The reason being that I taught a very condensed course (17 days of class, 13 actual lectures/discussion).  Because the class was so condensed I didn't feel that I could assign the students any more reading than a chapter from the Macionis text and a reading from this reader everyday.  Given a more drawn out course, say the traditional 10-week quarter, I can see where this reader would be more useful because you could assign multiple readings to each corresponding chapter in the introductory text and actually cover more than 13 of the 65 readings in the book.  Because I only covered about 13 of them I don't think I'll use this text in this format again (too expensive for 13 readings), opting instead to create a small packet of 10 articles or something along those lines.<br />As for the reader itself, I would say that about half of the included readings were superb and the other half ranged between mediocre and pretty poor.  For instance, most of the readings by Peter Berger (not Berger and Luckmann) were very clear, articulate, and downright humorous for a sociologist to read; I'm not sure my class found them as humorous, but they did seem to enjoy them.  <br />I also found in discussing the articles with my class that the articles that were most well-received, despite some students not agreeing with the methods or conclusions of the articles, were the articles that applied sociological understanding to real-world problems, for example the reading 'Fraternities and Rape on Campus' by Martin and Hummer resulted in a very lively and heated discussion.  <br />I can understand that Charon is trying to incorporate some more traditional readings in the reader in order to give the students a sense of what some classical sociological writing is like and also to give them an opportunity to read classical sociology.  It seems like a noble goal, but I'm not sure how effective it is.  Most of the excerpts he included were typically so short that they didn't really cover enough to get a good understanding of what the author was trying to get at (the exception being 'Human Nature' by Cooley).  For example, the excerpt by Berger and Luckmann on socialization was just a snippet from their wordy but fascinating treatise 'The Social Construction of Reality' and by no means gave an accurate or comprehensive understanding of what it was Berger and Luckmann were getting at.  Of course, my introduction to that text was actually an entire course focused on reading just that one book, so I'm kind of surprised that Charon would think a snippet would actually be useful to undergraduate students.<br />Overall I think the reader is designed to appeal to a broad array of sociology instructors by offering a little bit of everything (theory, application, critical sociology, etc.) but in so doing it becomes the task of the instructor to wade through the articles to find the ones that work for him/her.  I'm not sure there is another way to do it when trying to appeal to a large and varied group of instructors, so it can't really be honed in that sense.  Nevertheless, the reader does contain a number of classical works (e.g. 'The Saints and the Roughnecks' among others) that are both engaging and interesting to undergraduate students and work well as supplements to an introductory text.	2003-07-02
US	47757359	R2XXG3HHRDWPST	0954029100	144120369	The Purpose of Life: Human Purpose and Morality from an Evolutionary Perspective	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Bold, daring, and, well... cruel	Summary:<BR>For a very brief summary this book is a cross between Richard Dawkins's 'The Selfish Gene' and Social Darwinism, but that is perhaps too brief to really capture the scope of the book.  <br />A better summary would be that Donald Cameron has presented a fairly compelling argument for values based upon evolution, which he argues is the one true constant when it comes to human life.  The basic idea underlying his argument is what he calls the 'Evolutionary Value Principle', which states, \\"The correct set of values, in any evolved being, is the one that will give its holder's genes the maximum advantage in terms of natural selection.\\" (p. 63).  From this value, Cameron derives the following axioms which serve as the basis of his philosophy:<BR>(a) Natural Selection is the only source of value information that we have discovered so far in the universe.<BR>(b) A correct value set, unless it is empty, must have a source of information.  It can have no authority for me, if it comes from obviously random events.<BR>(c) A complete and correct value set should not be self-contradictory.  It must give a one-dimensional criterion.<BR>(d) Values should concern real-world variables, not simply a sensation of success in the brain produced by simulation.<BR>(e) Something matters: the nihilist view that nothing matters at all may not be disprovable, but it is one of my axioms not to accept it.  (p. 70)<br />My Comments:<BR>First, let me just say that I think Cameron is on the right track.  In the course of his book he throws out most philosophies, theologies, and religions as useless.  Though the argument that they are social creations isn't very clear, I think that is what he is driving at and is the reason why he sees them as worthless in determining values - they are relative and indexically located.  So, having admitted that I agree with his basic premise, let me point out some of the major problems I see with his philosophy.<br />My biggest problem with his argumentis that he is ultimately arguing for uncontrolled reproduction; he advocates people have as many children as they possible can because in the long run the only thing that really matters is having kids.  According to Cameron, \\"There is no amount of misery and suffering which should make us give up the chance of transmitting our genes into the future, if there is even the slightest hope of doing so.\\" (p. 185)  The logical conclusion to this argument is population control based upon external factors (famine, drought, disease, war, poverty, etc.) which results in misery.  Now, according to evolution and excluding any sentience humans might have, Cameron is right.  But this is where I disagree with him.  Because humans are sentient and aware of their purpose (gene replicators, nothing more), they can conceive of artificial and internal means of population control (limiting birth rates, birth control, etc.; e.g. China) so as to maintain an optimum population as well as maximize individual level comfort.  There is absolutely no need to procreate like rabbits and let natural selection sort things out.  If our sentient minds can't maximize healthy reproduction while minimizing suffering, what good are they?  Is quality of life not at all important?<br />My second major problem with Cameron's book is a point he repeatedly tries to make that is nearly indistinguishable from racism (I'm trying to give him the benefit of the doubt because it could easily be seen as such).  He repeatedly tries to make the point that Europeans (and their North American ancestors) are headed toward extinction.  I find this to be a particular naive and ethnocentric argument.  His point is that where Europeans and North Americans have reduced their fertility rate to below replacement levels, members of third world nations have increased their fertility rates or maintained them at higher levels.  The result will be the eventual 'extinction' of North Americans and Europeans, \\"Malthus would be astonished, two hundred years later, to see his descendants in the midst of a crisis of infertility which might lead to their extinction, but enjoying a level of wealth unparalleled in the history of the world.\\" (p. 161).  The problem with this thinking is that Europeans are just part of the human species.  If they cease to exist as a distinct race (either through interbreeding or through decreased breeding) they are not truly extinct as a species until humanity becomes extinct.  For some reason Cameron seems to equate the disappearance of Europeans with extinction and preemptively mourns the loss of a group of people.  Based on his own theory, so what if Europeans cease to exist as a distinct group among humans - isn't the idea really just natural selection working its course.  If Europeans are not selected, it's their own fault and it is not really a significant loss to humanity because evolution selected the best course.  Sure, Cameron wants his specific genes to continue, but he should leave the ethnocentric biases out of his philosophy.<br />Two more problems and I'm done.  The next problem I have with Cameron's argument is a false dichotomy argument he employs - either extinction or limitless children.  These are not the only options.  As noted above, humans are sentient.  They are different from other animals.  Despite the similarities, Cameron has to admit the difference; and because humans are different, different rules may just apply.  There are any number of potential solutions to the problem of extinction, limitless children is just one of them.  If I opt not to have children but work as a sociology professor teaching other people's children, is humanity done for?  Please!  It's a false dichotomy, a scare tactic and nothing more.  <br />The last problem includes something I should have mentioned earlier - the book is self-published.  I believe, because it is showing up on Amazon, that you may eventually be able to buy this from someone other than the author, butI actually wrote the author in England and had him ship me a copy of the book.  Because it is self-published it is in desperate need of an editor.  There are numerous grammatical and spelling mistakes that a careful reading would catch making for periodically interrupted reading, which just plain bugs me.<br />Overall, despite the major problems with the argument that I have pointed out, I think Cameron really does have a good point - the only real way to determine societal values should be based upon the survival of the species.  If he can take out his ethnocentric argument and give human sentience some credit, he might be on to something big.	2003-06-16
US	47757359	R34S43M4Z9Z2TX	0743510291	791325639	Speaking In Tongues	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Kept my attention	Summary:<BR>Tate Collier is a retired prosecuting attorney that has mastered the art of rhetoric.  When he convinces a jury to put the son of a famous but mentally unstable psychiatrist, Aaron Matthews, into prison for life he sets off a chain of events that will ultimately change his career, his relationship with his daughter Megan, and his ex-wife Betty; and not all of the changes are for the better.  <br />The book begins as Aaron kidnaps Megan during a supposed therapy session.  However, Aaron isn't after a ransom; he's out for revenge.  Having meticulously studied the lives of all of those near and dear to Tate, Aaron then begins a reign of havoc that ultimately results in a number of deaths and near deaths ranging from dog attacks to car wrecks and arson.  But in the end it all boils down to rhetoric and manipulation - who is the master of the tongue.<br />My Comments:<BR>I listened to this book on CD on a road trip.  The story kept my attention and was admittedly well thought out - setting up all of the right information to allow numerous twists and turns later in the book.  Two of the main characters, Tate and Aaron, seemed convincing, but I was never really able to understand and imagine Megan, the other main character.  Connie, a secondary character, also seemed to be well-developed, but Betty, Tate's ex-wife, wasn't convincing and ultimately played a smaller part in the story than her character warranted.<br />The story itself had enough surprises to keep it interesting, though it was pretty implausible and required a substantial suspension of belief (which is fine with me but I always like to mention it).  It also seemed as though the author had some points he wanted to make about the power of words, kind of an odd point to be made by an author, or, well, maybe it isn't seeing as how words are his livelihood.  I guess if he can convince his readers of the power of words he can continue to convince them to buy his books.  Anyway, some of the messages seemovert and some of the dialogue is a bit over the top.  <br />Overall, the book has a great story structure that doesn't necessarily keep you guessing but does keep you wondering what morbid thing is going to happen next.  Most of the characters are well-developed, but some are pretty enigmatic and don't work very well.  The book kept me entertained for the five hours that it took to listen to, but I can't speak for the text version.  Not a bad book to take on a road trip; I'd recommend it.	2003-05-26
US	47757359	R3NYFY5IZTJF7W	0553211439	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	What a story!	Summary:<br />Hank Morgan is a fiery shop boss in the Colt Arms Factory in New England during the late 1800s when he is knocke unconscious by another worker who gets the better of him during a fight.  When Hank wakes up, he finds himself in Britain during the 7th century C.E. in the time of King Arthur.  As it just so happens, before Hank can be burned at the stake for threatening to blot out the sun, the solar eclipse he predicted takes place and everyone in King Arthur's royal court cowers at his command.  Hank is given what was formerly Merlin the Magician's position as chief executive and renamed The Boss.  The Boss then begins to reform ancient Britain, introducing dynamite, fireworks, bicycles, electricity, telephones, etc.<br />But, as is only becoming of someone of his rank, he must inevitably go on a quest.  It just so happens that a damsel in distress, Sandy, has come a-calling and has a mission for a knight.  So, Hank embarks on a journey with Sandy and returns victoriously having saved a pen of pigs that used to be a queen and maidens but was mysteriously transformed, though only Sandy knows this.<br />Hank continues with his plans of reforming Britain, but lets slip another plan to the King that he wants to secretly go among the peasants as a commoner himself.  The King likes the idea and signs on.  They embark on a series of adventures that end with both of them being sold into slavery and very nearly being hung.<br />Due to a misheard comment several years earlier, Hank is forced to battle another knight who was offended by the remark.  In an effort to crush the ancient norms of chivalry, Hank not only battles the knight (using a lasso), but challenges all of the knighthood of Britain.  His challenge pays off when he pulls out his six-shooters and lays waste to ten of the knights, the rest breaking ranks and running.<br />After this incident, three years of bounty follow during which Hank's reforms become common place - except in the Catholic Church.  Ultimately Hank is deceived by the Church, King Arthur is betrayed by his son Mordred and the greatest knight of England, Lancelot, who has been in love with Guinevere for ages.  When all of this comes to a head, both Mordred and Arthur are dead and the nation is without leadership except for the Church.<br />Of course Hank can't let this situation stand.  Gathering up his very best men, he destroys his wonderful factories and holes up in a cave.  The last of the knights, totaling some thirty-thousand, come against him and 53 of his best men (52 and Clarence).  Nearly all of the knights are destroyed.  But what Hank and Clarence hadn't considered is what the decaying men's bodies would do to them seeing as how they can't leave the cave.<br />In the end, Merlin, the magician that has plagued Hank since his arrival, sneaks into the cave disguised as a woman and casts a spell on Hank, causing him to sleep for 13 centuries or until his own time again.  After the spell, Merlin is killed and the story ends.<br />My Comments:<br />There is no doubt in my mind that Samuel Clemens is one of the greatest writers of all time.  This book is not only superbly written, but absolutely hilarious and remarkably insightful.  Some of Clemens' insights into humanity are astonishing.<br />The story itself is pretty good, though the ending is a little bit well, open.  You aren't sure exactly what happened, though you have a pretty good idea.  I would love to read something about 'the writing of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court', it likely draws upon Rip Van Winkle as well as numerous other writers and writings of the day.<br />There is also a lot of commentary about the Catholic Church and its oppressive nature.  Whether this is based in early American anti-Catholic sentiment or just plain anti-religious sentiment, I don't know (both are possibilities considering the time period).  Perhaps the aforementioned book about this book, when written, will answer that question.  I chose to look at it as anti-religious sentiment and thoroughly enjoyed it throughout.<br />Overall, this book is a definite must read for everyone.  I recall having read a children's shortened version when I was about ten, but reading in its original form is a treat.  Read this book.I chose to look at it as anti-religious sentiment and thoroughly enjoyed it throughout.<br />Overall, this book is a definite must read for everyone.  I recall having read a children's shortened version when I was about ten, but reading in its original form is a treat.  Read this book.	2003-05-02
US	47757359	RN38YGXMKISLU	084990904X	923624346	Birthmarks	Books	1	3	7	N	N	Strange combination of religion and therapy.	Summary:<br />The title of the book, Birthmarks, is in reference to the negative influences that parents and grandparents can have on children.  Combining some elements of family therapy (family systems theory) and Christianity, the authors try to explain how to become a transition person that breaks the bad habits that get passed through generations.<br />My Comments:<br />I have no idea where I got this book, but it may have been during my occult book collection days thinking it was actually about physical birthmarks.  Anyway, I read the book in a couple of hours on a lazy Saturday and it's not very good.<br />The first major problem is the attempt to integrate Christianity and therapy.  Perhaps it is possible, but this book certainly doesn't make a good case for it.  The attempts are sporadic and the majority are attempts to apply therapeutic analyses to Bible stories.  The authors meticulously apply the idea of Birthmarks to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in what can only be called a bizarre analysis.  At one point I thought I had actually seen 'the light' of what the authors were trying to do... Put the blame on someone else (Satan = parents) and look to God and the Bible for the solution.  I do agree with some elements of Freudian psychoanalysis and the basic idea of the book isn't a bad idea, but I just can't buy the connection to religion.  If they had kept religion out of the book it would have been better.<br />The book also repeatedly advocates traditional gender roles, though they probably aren't trying to.  All of the references and inferences are kind of indirect, but work to the same effect nonetheless.<br />The organization doesn't really makes sense.  The beginning and ending are okay, but the middle seems to wander, as though they were just trying to fill it up to make this a book instead of a pamphlet.  (This comes across even stronger because they use a 14 size font; it's huge.)<br />Amidst all of the religious hoopla, I did think the point they made about taking care of yourself first is a good idea.  I'm no expert, but it certainly seems that you can't change anyone else, so your focus should probably on yourself.  Also, their definition of empowerment was pretty good: the responsibility and opportunity for those who have power to release it to others so that they may become equals.<br />Overall, the book doesn't reveal anything new as therapy goes and the attempts to integrate Freudian psychotherapy with religion definitely don't work (especially considering Freud's view of religion).  Perhaps, however, the book would be useful for those religious people that believe religion is the solution to everything and see no value to psychology and therapy.  Perhaps if you are looking for a book that combines religion and therapy this will work for you.  If you are more interested in a self-help book that has nothing to do with religion - look elsewhere.about taking care of yourself first is a good idea.  I'm no expert, but it certainly seems that you can't change anyone else, so your focus should probably on yourself.  Also, their definition of empowerment was pretty good: the responsibility and opportunity for those who have power to release it to others so that they may become equals.<br />Overall, the book doesn't reveal anything new as therapy goes and the attempts to integrate Freudian psychotherapy with religion definitely don't work (especially considering Freud's view of religion).  Perhaps, however, the book would be useful for those religious people that believe religion is the solution to everything and see no value to psychology and therapy.  Perhaps if you are looking for a book that combines religion and therapy this will work for you.  If you are more interested in a self-help book that has nothing to do with religion - look elsewhere.	2003-04-27
US	47757359	R3TKVFF8ZR26IE	0877478945	791158371	One In Thine Hand	Books	2	8	31	N	N	Accurate portrayal of Mormon thought	Summary:<BR>Brad Kennison has just returned from Viet Nam.  Before that he served a mission for the Mormon Church.  Now, at 24, he isn't sure what he wants to do with his life.  Feeling like he needs to get away from Utah, he takes the money he saved up while in the service and heads to Israel - he doesn't know why nor does he know what he is looking for, but Israel is where he feels drawn to.  On the way he becomes acquainted with a newly converted Mormon, Ali, who is from Jerusalem, was [type of religion], but was converted to Mormonism while studying in the U.S.  Brad and Ali become good friends and Ali helps him get situated in Jerusalem.  Brad didn't really have any plans, but hoped to stay in Israel for a couple of months and hopefully find a job.  <br />With Ali's help, Brad is introduced to Levi Shadmi, who owns and runs a hotel.  But the person that is really relevant to the story is Levi's daughter, Miri (short for Miriam).  Miri is a fireball and ardent Israeli ... Miri and Brad start out as arch enemies, but as they get to know each other better their relationship becomes romantic and they fall deeply into love.  But, there is a major problem - Miri is [type of religion] and Brad is Mormon.  Both religions look down upon marrying someone outside of the faith, so Miri and Brad have to work that out before their relationship can move ahead.<br />My Comments:<BR>I gave the book two stars for being fairly well-written and accurately portraying a Mormon mentality.  Though I am no expert on the Middle East, it appears that Gerald Lund does have some knowledge of Israel and uses it throughout the novel to good effect.  The story itself isn't too bad, though there are some pretty incredulous occurrences (specifically the Rambo-esque scene when Brad, Miri, Nathan, Sarah, and Ali break out of an Egyptian military camp).  For the most part, the book makes sense.<br />As for the drawbacks...  Well, the first is the actual premise - that Brad was guided to Israel tofind Miri specifically.  In a sense, that philosophy does represent the beliefs of some Mormons (among other religious groups) that there is one person that we are destined to find and marry, but, since I no longer believe it, it's kind of a silly plot device.  Also, the book is subtly laced with Mormon patriarchal/traditional gender ideology.  Especially when Miri pretty much gives up her life, her religion, her family, and her homeland to become a Mormon ... stationed in Salt Lake; feminists would have a heyday with this novel.  <br />But the major criticism I have of the novel is that it is written from a 'Mormons are right' perspective.  Though I think Lund is trying to capture the idea that Mormons consider marrying outside of the Church, in the end, Brad would rather give up what could potentially be a wonderful relationship for religion.  There are multiple problems with this (perhaps not with the story but with that mentality).  First, why does the [type of religion] have to give up her religion to pacify the Mormon? Why can't it be the other way around?  Or, why don't they just love each other and continue to believe what they believe?  Of course, Lund would argue that both religions, being as exclusive as they are, would punish such an arrangement.  He is right, but that leads to my next point - the divisiveness of religion.  Throughout the book, whether intentional or not, Lund continuously illustrates how divisive religion can be.  Ironically, he portrays Mormonism as being as divisive as say, Judaism and [type of relgion], but the point is that religion is still problem causing.  And the last point concerning the 'Mormons are right' perspective is that, though Lund does an accurate job of portraying the Mormon perspective, I don't really know enough about Jews or Muslims to know if he is accurately portraying their perspectives - but I have a sneaking suspicion that he is not.  What's more, because Mormonism tends to be as exclusive as it is, Mormons that read this book may actually think that all Jews and Muslims think the way they do in the book and, of course, that they will all eventually convert to Mormonism.  Well, in case anyone reading this thinks that way, the chances of all Jews and Muslims converting to Mormonism is between pretty slim and none.<br />Overall, though the book is interesting, unless you are Mormon, it will leave a nasty after taste - the religious idea that only Mormons are right and everyone else is wrong and must eventually convert.  Perhaps the book does some good for Mormons by helping them begin to see other perspectives, but ultimately, the book just argues that the other perspectives are wrong.  If you're Mormon, you'll probably enjoy it.  If not, well, read it at your own risk.	2003-04-13
US	47757359	R21BZGZ5OSVLQT	0831400706	61203994	The New Peoplemaking	Books	3	38	55	N	N	Long-winded but decent advice.	My Comments:<BR>I don't know that giving a summary of the book is feasible, so I'll just point out a few things that I liked and didn't like.  First, the book is huge, 385 pages.  Admittedly what Satir has to say is important and perhaps even very beneficial to some people, but I highly doubt anyone but the seriously interested in psychological self-help will wade their way through every page of this book - even though the type is big and there are gobs of pictures.  Perhaps this will sound demeaning to Americans but we (I'm American too) seem to like answers that come in small packages; this is not a small package answer.  I guess what I'm saying is that she could have covered all of the information in about half the space - cutting out a lot of unneeded stuff.<br />Now something positive: I think the content is pretty good.  Satir has simplified her message to where the educated layperson can read it and omitted all of the psycho-babble.  The advice she gives really reads like common sense, but that is the subtlety of the message - it sounds just like the way that things should be (for the most part) which, to me at least, means she is probably on the right track.<br />There are a couple of other things about the book that I didn't particularly like.  First, near the end of the book Satir starts giving advice on how to attain world peace and how to solve the world's problems.  Well, she's a family therapist and not a political scientist or a sociologist - she is out of her league here.  What really drives the point home (pun is intended as you will see) is that she compares everything - national governments, international societies, etc. - to families.  I guess when you only have a hammer (family therapy experience), everything begins to look like a nail (solving world hunger, ending the use of war to resolve conflicts, etc.) and can be solved the same way.  Satir may know quite a bit about families, but I really didn't buy her advice on solving world problems.<br/>Satir also discusses the notion of spirituality.  Now, what makes this so interesting is that she seems to think that spirituality and understanding spirituality are very important for resolving mental health and family relations issues, as a matter of fact, I believe she calls it the most important thing that people can do to get healthy.  But she only spends one chapter discussing spirituality.  I'm guessing that she realizes that her book will absolutely not appeal to 'a'-spiritual people if she emphasizes spirituality too much so she cut the chapter short and left it at that.  Well, maybe that was a good decision.  <br />There are three more things I'll mention briefly and then I'm done.  First, the concept of a healthy family is a relative one.  She makes attempts to rationalize why her conception of a 'healthy' family is the right one, but they aren't particularly convincing.  But, keep in mind, her conception is likely the societal norm; the point I am trying to make is that she doesn't do a good job of arguing her perspective.  This leads to her biases.  She doesn't reveal them until the end, but we end up finding out that she is a pacifist and feminist in either the last or second to last chapter.  In my opinion, things like that should be revealed up front.  Again, keep in mind that I don't disagree with those perspectives or opinions, I just think she should have revealed her biases at the beginning of the book instead of at the end.<br />Lastly, she has a tendency to make broad, sweeping statements about the way things are (how families were in the late 1800s for example) and fails to cite any references to back up her claims.  Sure, this is a self-help book for the layperson, but this leaves the scholar wanting for evidence for her claims.  <br />Overall, like I said above, I think the book has good advice.  Whether or not it will make a difference for people pr families, I don't know.  If you have to read the whole thing to change, then probably not; it's just too long.  The exercises she suggest sound interesting, but I don't have any kids and most of them are designed around kids.  Those that are for couples, well, I guess I could try them, but I think my relationship with my significant other is pretty good, so I'll pass for now and if there are problems, perhaps I'll pull it back out in the future.  If you really think that you would be willing to use the exercises and you are committed to reading a very long book, perhaps this will help.  If you are looking for a quick fix (which is not likely to help anyway), then don't waste your time or money because it isn't until you are willing to really work to make things better that something like a self-help book like The New Peoplemaking will make a difference.	2003-04-03
US	47757359	R2S9QXQ8EA84QQ	0671742515	238243512	The Long Dark Tea-Time of the Soul	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A second, and perhaps more funny, novel in the Dirk Gently's	Summary:<BR>Unlike Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency, this book focuses much more on Dirk Gently and his 'detective' efforts.  Dirk is hired by Geoff Anstey to do 'something' relating to Mr. Anstey's contract selling his soul to a demon from another dimension.  When Dirk remembers that he is supposed to be helping Geoff Anstey and heads towards his home he ends up finding Mr. Anstey's head separated from his body.  As are all things in Dirk Gently's world, this job is interconnected with the bolt of lightening that destroyed a service desk at Heathrow airport a few days before.  As it turns out, a disgruntled potential passenger who turns out to be the Norse god Thor was so upset by the mistreatment he was receiving that he called a bolt of lightning from the sky to destroy the service desk (a very literal 'act of god').  Though Thor was frustrated by the airline employee, Kate Schechter, an American journalist, actually tried to help him out leading to him wanting her help later on.  Well, Kate and Dirk are sucked into a an adventure revolving around the selling of the Norse gods power by their king, Odin, to an advertising executive and a lawyer that happen to live next door to Geoff Anstey.  Everything is interconnected in Douglas Adams novels.<br />My Comments:<BR>The book is hilarious (though not quite as funny as the Hitchiker's Guide).  I liked the fact that the focus was on Dirk Gently and we were even more exposed to his bizarre antics.  Also, though it is never actually specified, it is hard to distinguish whether or not this book takes place before or after the first book in the series (I believe it takes place before).  The only thing I felt was left unresolved, though Adams's resolutions are typically one to two pages and sometimes leaving you wanting, was what happened to Geoff Anstey's son who was spellbound and remarkably violent in his TV watching.  Perhaps it was just meant to be funny, but it seemed like it should have more of a role in thebook.  Other than that small distraction, the book actually tends to stay mostly on track (other than Kate's trip to the mental hospital and the characters she meets there).<br />As is the case with most of Adams's work, if you like it, you like it.  And, I would submit, this could actually be a good introductory book for someone that would like to become familiar with Adams's work.  Great book; lots of fun.	2003-03-31
US	47757359	RJSQHFT7J67X3	0671692674	312152799	DIRK GENTLY'S HOLISTIC DETECTIVE AGENCY	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not the Hitchhiker's Guide, but still good.	Summary:<BR>Richard Duffy, an up and coming computer programmer, decides to visit a professor he had in college, Reg. Reg quickly convinces the reader he is an eccentric Douglas Adams character and, without either of them knowing it, a 4 billion year old ghost is trying to take possession of their bodies.<br />Dirk Gently is a college classmate of Richard's and once he becomes involved, the trio become engaged in so many converging plots that it will leave your mind spinning. From evolution to religion to murder and hypnosis and ghosts and aliens, the story finally closes with love and music by Bach and you'll just have to read it to see how any of this summary makes sense.<br />My Comments:<BR>If you have read anything else by Douglas Adams you don't need to read this review because you'll know if you like his work and, since this is typical Adams, you should like it.  If, however, you have not read anything by Adams, you should know that he writes about science, science fiction, and religion and he does it all in such away that you come away from his work in stitches and having thought about things a little bit deeper.<br />As is also typically the case with Adams, he introduces what seem to be completely disparate characters and amazingly ties them all together before he is done.  The writing is witty and flowery (and British - though I hate to admit it, I read the word 'boot' probably 20 times before I realized he was talking about the 'trunk' of the car).<br />Anyway, I'm not sure I am saying much of worth here, so I'll just say that I absolutely love Douglas Adams' work. I think a large part of that comes from him poking fun of religion (the rest being the excellent and hilarious writing). Anyway, if you're kind of into science (especially science fiction) and can laugh at yourself and your religion (if you have one), you should love this book.	2003-03-29
US	47757359	R8ERMJ77D24RY	1400045088	458212829	The Salmon of Doubt: Hitchhiking the Galaxy One Last Time	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Posthumous compilation of Adams's work.	Summary:<BR>There isn't really much to summarize here.  The book is a collection of magazine articles, letters, and first drafts of stories for future books by Douglas Adams.  It also contains a biography and some extensive contributions by Adams's editor and several fans.<br />My Comments:<BR>As much as I love Douglas Adams' work, I'm just not so big of a fan that I want every scrap of writing he has ever written.  Some of the stuff in the book is fun and interesting and I must admit that it is nice to see a bit more of the preservationist side of Adams rather than just the humor.  But, this book is really more of a compilation of dissimilar material for the extreme Adams fan.  If you absolutely have to have everything that Adams ever wrote, you'll probably want this book.  If you are more interested in Adams's novels you may not find this quite so interesting.	2003-03-29
US	47757359	R3KIQ8L7ZHX01B	0465051200	243298243	No Man's Land: Men's Changing Commitments To Family And Work	Books	3	9	13	N	N	Lots of info, but no real point.	Summary:<BR>No Man's Land is the result of over one hundred interviews the author (or her graduate student assistants) conducted with men in the New York metropolitan area.  Gerson is interested in the changing roles of men as regards work and family.  In order to discover how men's roles are changing, she analyzes the interviews and ultimately comes up with the following:<BR>There are essentially three types of men in terms of their commitments to work and family: (1) Those that are oriented toward Breadwinning; (2) Those that are oriented toward Autonomy; (3) Those that are oriented toward Family Involvement.<br />Breadwinners are men that are the primary wage earner for their families.  They express their concern and love for their family by working long hours to make enough money to support their family.  The long hours usually mean that they don't really spend time with their family, but they consider this a way of showing their family how much they love them.<br />The Autonomous are men that are not interested in family.  They may find fulfillment in their work or in things outside of work, but they are more interested in finding their own fulfillment than in creating or maintaining a family.<br />The Family Involved are men that have put their families before everything else.  They may reduce the hours that they work or purposely avoid promotions so they can spend more time with their families.  These men may not make as much as the Breadwinners, but they are more interested in spending quality time with their families.<br />Of course, Gerson does make the point that men can shift from one path to another (e.g. from Breadwinner to Autonomous or vice versa and so forth) or can kind of mix paths, but it is easiest to understand men from these perspectives.<br />And, though she never really comes right out and says it, the main reason for why men end up where they do is because of job opportunities (at least, that is the impression you get from reading the book).  What is meant by this is that some men climb the corporate ladder quickly.  If they had a family when they first started this climb, then they become Breadwinners.  If they didn't, then they become autonomous.  If they start climbing the corporate ladder but then get stuck, they may become Family Involved.  And, a lot of men that are not successful in work and thus are fearful that they can't support a family turned toward Autonomy.  <br />The book ends with the author making some vague comments on how the workplace (and the world for that matter) should change so men can more easily be Family Involved; I guess that is assumed to be the ideal.<br />My Comments:<BR>As I said before, there is a lot of information in this book and it really is pretty easy to read.  The problem is that the information isn't really presented in a format that makes patterns in men's lives distinguishable.  Every time she offers an example to illustrate a point, it is followed by another example two lines later that contradicts the previous one.  And, even though Gerson categorizes men into three categories, she also points out that you can move between these rather fluidly or you can combine categories - which makes the categories almost meaningless.<br />But the biggest problem with the book is that she attributes men ending up in these categories to men's success in the marketplace.  Now, it may be a bit extreme to say that she is claiming that men's financial success is really the only factor; she talks about how some men have orientations towards being Breadwinners or being Autonomous from very young ages, but there is no discernible pattern in how these men end up - they are just as likely to go from having a Breadwinner orientation to becoming a Breadwinner as they are from having a Breadwinner orientation to becoming Autonomous.  So, the impression you end up with is that your job is going to determine your orientation toward your family rather than your family or desires for afamily determining your job.<br />Gerson does ultimately spill the beans about her bias: men should be Family Involved and workplaces should change to allow that to happen.  I must admit that I don't disagree with her, but as an academic, is she supposed to have an opinion on things?  I don't know, that's a question that is beyond my ability to answer.<br />Anyway, I would like to say that the book is insightful and informative, but the conclusions are just not very convincing.  Some more quantitative studies have found evidence for her claims and some have contradicted her claims.  Some very recent work shows that most men have a traditional attitude towards family - they are Breadwinners regardless of their financial situation.<br />I think Gerson makes a good argument for men having possibly conflicting roles and definitely having conflicting demands, but she never really makes clear what is driving all of this.  Perhaps her data won't allow her to do that.  If not, then even though the book is interesting you could argue that it hasn't really given us more information than we had before.	2003-03-02
US	47757359	R9MWYZYD7SJ0Y	0691074135	968653436	A Bridging of Faiths: Religion & Politics in a New England City (Princeton Legacy Library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very well-written and very informative.	Summary:<BR>The book is an in-depth look at the relationship between religion and politics (church-state relations) in Springfield, Massachusetts. <br />Chapter 1 lays out the approach taken to the project and describes the research and the book.  Chapter 2 is a brief history of Springfield from its Congregational roots in the 1600s up to 1950.  Chapter 3 is a history from 1950 to the then present - late 1980s.  All of the history of Springfield in the book focuses on politics and religion except where other elements are relevant to the ultimate analysis, so if you are looking for a thorough treatment of the history of Springfield you should look elsewhere.  Chapter 4 is a closer look at church-state relations.<br />Chapters 5-7 are case studies used to advance the understanding of church-state relations in Springfield.  Chapter 5 focuses on the issue of homelessness.  Chapter 6 takes a closer look at race issues and poor areas in Springfield.  Chapter 7 examines issues of abortion and sex education in light of religion and politics.  <br />Chapter 8, the final chapter, is where the authors bring everything together.  They summarize the book and the research findings thus: <br />\\"Our own summary involves four conclusions at odds with what might have been predicted.  First, despite Springfield's predominant Catholicism, there are fewer violations of the law and less bridging of church and state than many constitutional Cassandras might have expected, or than might have been predicted on the basis of community opinion.  Second, this does not mean that religion has become a political cipher.  Religionists of varying stripes - not exclusively Catholic - have exerted considerable political influence on selected issues, indeed more influence than many social scientists might have expected.  Third, attempting to understand where religion does and does not exert civic influence leads to the realization that the contingencies and vicissitudes of power are themselves more complex than many political analysts have suggested.  As one pointed example, most accounts have focused on the 'structure' of power, but it is the 'culture' of power - and the power of culture - that requires increasing attention.  Fourth, and finally, religion's varying influence on civic matters is obviously related to larger changes in religion itself.  Once again there are paradoxes to be confronted.  A continuing religious influence in community disputes is not a rebuttal to long-term trends of secularization, as many students of religion might aver.  Secularization and sacralization are more mutually dependent than mutually exclusive, and each tendency can only be understood with reference to the other.\\"<br />The findings are based on interviews, comparative analysies, and survey data collected by the authors.<br />My Comments:<BR>Unlike many 'academic' books, this book is intentionally designed to be readable.  Undoubtedly there are many parts that might not be understandable to the individual that is not a specialist in sociology or the sociology of religion specifically.  However, the authors make a notable effort to present their findings in such a fashion that it is enjoyable to read and intelligible to a lay audience.  <br />The book (I am looking back in time now) was also timely in the study of the sociology of religion as debates surrounding the concept of secularization were on the rise.  The authors' discussion is timely and still relevant.<br />Overall, this book is an excellent examination of church-state relations and likely applicable in many cities (despite the authors continual reminders that the findings should not be extrapolated universally).  If you would like a better understanding of church-state relations in the U.S. you should read this book.	2003-02-18
US	47757359	R3BX2LQKYHJ6F5	0884944719	771209318	The Divine Center	Books	1	19	95	N	N	By a Mormon for guilt-loving Mormons.	The initial problem with this book and perhaps the major problem with it begins in the very first chapter.  Covey explains that science and scientists are truest to their profession when they recognize that science does not necessarily have 'the truth' but is trying to more closely approximate what it believes to be the truth.  In other words there is no real absolute.  He even talks about how people have different realities.  But all of this discussion of science and its ideals is thrown away once he introduces the basic idea of the book, The Divine Center.  The basic notion is that the only thing that is constant in people's lives is God and/or Christ.  Because that is the only constant, people should set it up as the focus of their lives and live their lives in accordance with the teachings of Christ.  Of course, there is a stipulation, you must do it according to the Mormon conception of God or Christ and if you don't and are not Mormon then you're going to hell.<br />So, if you are Mormon, you may appreciate this book because it lends toward Mormon exclusivity and a sense of superiority.  But no one else would find this book at all beneficial.  <br />But even for Mormons, there are a lot of problems in this book, which I hope to outline below.  Most of them are contradictions or instructions by Covey on how to live your life that are not specified within Mormon dogma.<br />The initial and major contradiction begins on page 13, &quot;But whenever a person has a new world view or a new paradigm, he feels both exhilarated and humbled by it.  He feels that the former view was not so much wrong as partial, as if he had been observing with restricted vision.  He is exhilarated because in making the shift he has gained not simply more knowledge but a whole new way of knowing.  He is humbled because he knows that improvements in his world view still will and must take place.&quot;  This idea of changing paradigms is then followed by Covey's absolutist view on the verysame page, &quot;As we will see throughout the rest of this book, believing is seeing, Believing in the Creator of the territory [God or Christ] as one who has complete integrity, power, and love opens up to us the most accurate map of the territory, enabling us to see and understand it better.&quot;  He is referring here to the 'perfect' map or Mormonism.<br />Four pages later he condemns intellectuality, saying, &quot;I am persuaded that intellectual pride is more basic and serious than either social or material pride.&quot;  He then continues by saying that all of the great scientists of our time were wrong because they did not have 'the Lord's map'.<br />On page 32 he condemns TV watching, but this would obviously not apply to General Conference and Mormon broadcasts I'm sure.  And one page later offers the key to making life a success - work.<br />A lot of the claims that Covey makes are also based strictly on anecdotal experiences rather than scientific analysis or data.  (see p. 64 for example)<br />There is another great line that illustrates the perspective Covey is taking, &quot;The world generally regards this [achieving perfection] as impossible, but the world is wrong.&quot; (p. 78)  Throughout you get the impression that this is what Covey really does think, that the world is wrong, that science is wrong.<br />On p. 88 he teaches that unconditional love exists and that it is a necessary condition to a successful marriage; I don't agree with the idea of unconditional love.  <br />Another major problem with the book is that he repeats himself over and over again.  When he talks about all of the things people should not have as the center of their life he repeats it for a couple hundred pages with numerous charts and diagrams as well.  Does he really think that people need to hear it that many times to understand it?<br />In a sense he turns this into the 'Mormon book of everything'.  He talks about just about everything Mormons should be doing, could bedoing and need to be doing to be healthy, happy, and good Mormons.<br />On page 162 he talks about how Mormon families should put on an image for everyone else that everything is good in their home, regardless of how bad things really are.<br />Page 164 he encourages people to live a deluded life, focusing on how they think God would want them to be rather than on hw they should live in a social world.<br />But perhaps the biggest problem I had with his ideas and teachings is that he actually condones the guilt that religion causes in people's lives.  He considers it a positive thing because it encourages people to behave in accordance with church teachings.  What he doesn't mention is that guilt is a form of social control and that religion teaches you what you should feel guilty about and then offers a cure for that guilt.  It is a horrible system of self-perpetuation employed by religions. (p. 248)<br />In the end, his basic idea of having a secure center seems to be a good one, assuming that there is something in life that is secure.  Ironically not even the doctrines of the Mormon church are secure, so relying upon that for a sense of security seems like a poor idea just as much as relying on any of the other things Covey claims are bad things to focus on (family, friends, leadership, etc.).<br />The book, as I said, may be a good idea for Mormons that enjoy feeling guilty and want to participate in that form of social control, but anyone else should avoid this book.  It teaches a Mormoncentric view of the world and condemns everyone else.  I would consider it psychologically unhealthy.	2003-02-16
US	47757359	R1E4YLH8CMO4MM	0805066438	414785395	The Time Bind: When Work Becomes Home and Home Becomes Work	Books	4	18	25	N	N	Excellent - though follow up research doesn't confirm	Summary:<BR>The book is essentially a report of the findings of a 3-year qualitative study by the author, Arlie Hochschild, of a Fortune 500 company's 'family-friendly' practices.  The author interviewed people in all tiers of the organization, conducted surveys, followed employees, and did participant observations to try to understand how the company's family-friendly policies were being implemented.<br />The result is The Time Bind.  Though the company wants to give the impression that it is family-friendly, certain factors are working against the company actually living up to its policies.  One is that for many of the managers at the company 'face time' or actually being at work is more important than actually doing anything at work.  If your understanding of 'family-friendly' includes the possibility of working fewer hours, this is going to work against anyone that wants to participate in an hour reduction program.  <br />Another thing that the author posits that is working against family friendliness is that companies are turning the work environment into a safe and comforting environment (though doing this actually covers up the temporariness inherent in companies) and in essence are replacing the home environment or turning the home environment into something more akin to what work environments have traditionally been seen as being (e.g. scheduling time for kids and spouses, running from one thing to the next, not being able to rest, etc.).  The result is that many people actually want to spend more time at work then they do at home because they feel more relaxed at work then they do at home.  (Read the book to understand this argument more fully.)<br />My Comments:<BR>I think the book is great.  Admittedly one could claim that the author is biased - perhaps she is a social democrat that hates capitalism and sees her efforts as a way of attacking capitalism.  I guess that is a possibility.  And it does lead to the one criticism I see in the book: Arlie Hochschild never openly states the perspective she brings to the table in exploring the ramifications of The Time Bind.  At one point she does posit that children that are left home alone have a higher rate of drug and alcohol abuse than do kids that are not left home alone.  So, I guess her bias does seep out through comments like that.  But, for individuals that share her bias (which is probably most people), I think this book does a great job of illustrating that capitalism really does have some problems - one being the deemphasizing of the family and the focus on work instead.  In this sense, I can't help but comment that perhaps Emile Durkheim, in claiming that the eventual dissolution of religious authority that lent solidarity to society would be replaced by the workplace, seems to find a home in The Time Bind.<br />Overall, the book is very well-written and engaging.  The findings are presented using specific people and their stories which makes the book more like a morally laden collection of stories.  But the scholarship does not appear to be influenced by the plight of the individuals.  And, the author does not write this book at a scholarly level and fill it with sociological jargon.  The book should be readable by anyone.  I would highly recommend it.<br />Caveat:<BR>There has been some follow up research done on Hocschild's theories about how the workplace has become more like home and vice versa.  Most of the research says this isn't necessarily accurate.  Though there could be some truth to this, the more likely cause of increased time spent working is due to managerial demands and more women working full time rather than people just wanting to be at work.	2003-02-15
US	47757359	RGPYTJ3M7VXZU	0521337399	850184719	Plans and Situated Actions: The Problem of Human-Machine Communication (Learning in Doing: Social, Cognitive and Computational Perspectives)	Books	1	15	31	N	N	Read only the last chapter and the conclusion.	If you do read it, read only the last chapter and the conclusion.<br />Summary:<BR>Keep in mind that the title of the book is Plans and Situated Actions: The Problem of Human Machine Communication.  The majority of the book is the 'plans and situated actions' part.  <br />The basic idea of the book is that humans don't really function using plans.  Plans, as the author defines them, are something akin to diagrams for behavior, explicating specific activities.  Instead, the author argues that humans behave based on 'situated actions'.  Situated actions are, &quot;the view that every course of action depends in essential ways upon its material and social circumstances.  Rather than attempting to abstract action away from its circumstances and represent it as a rational plan, the approach is to study how people use their circumstances to achieve intelligent action.&quot; (p. 50).<br />In other words, people have a goal in mind.  To achieve their goal, people may or may not set up a plan (the author discusses how this could be culturally relative, but I think this is a weak point in her argument because she doesn't really do a good job of distinguishing one type of plan from another), but what is important is that in trying to achieve their goal they are placed in situations that determine their actions.  This could also be said: people behave in specific situations based upon the factors that affect the situation.  <br />Let me give an example... Let's say your goal is to get to the dentist.  You set up a 'plan' for getting to the dentist prior to leaving.  Your plan would include a calculation of the time and the route and your mode of transportation.  The situated action approach would say that you can only understand the individual's behavior in terms of their actions in specific situations.  So you get in your car and on the way to the dentist's office you run into a detour due to construction.  If you had to follow your plan, you couldn't make it to the dentist.But when you leave the road and find an alternate route, this behavior is only understood in terms of situated action.  Does that explain it?  Wow, and it only took me a few paragraphs.  <br />The author discusses plans and situated actions in terms of conversations, cognitive science, ethnomethodology, and a whole bunch of other theoretical perspectives and technical jargon.  In the end she finally gets to the human and machine communication.  This is also where the book begins to get interesting.  She studied how people interacted with copy machines that were trying to give people instructions.  Her studies, undoubtedly helped the people at Xerox figure out ways to improve their copy machines and instructions for them.  Like I said above, the last chapter and the conclusion are the most interesting parts of the book.  Skip the rest and read them.<br />My Comments:<BR>For someone so concerned with understanding how people communicate this book is horribly written and nearly unintelligible.  The first six chapters are theory and examples of the theory that are completely unrelated to machines.  The book finally gets to human and machine interaction after nearly one hundred pages of inchoate theory.  And the human and machine interaction stuff isn't really all that interesting - especially since it predates the 1990s, is talking about interaction with copying machines, and has nothing to do with computers.  <br />The author should have chosen a specific approach and then stuck to it.  Perhaps she could have tripled the length of the book and gave clear and understandable explanations of the theories (though I am pretty much convinced after having read the book that this would be impossible because of the author's writing style) and used examples that applied only to human and machine interaction.  Or she could have just jumped into her findings that dealt with human and machine interaction.  The first approach could have been 'dumbed down' to make the book readable by the general public.  The second approach could have served a more academic market.  <br />The book reads something like a doctoral dissertation (it very well may be one, I don't know) in that she gives some information on each theory, but not really enough to give someone a good understanding of it - something like a literature review - and cites examples of research that are completely unrelated to the topic of the book to illustrate the theories .  The she presents her methods, results, and conclusion.<br />I guess my problem is that I was expecting a book that would actually be enjoyable to read, interesting, and would focus on human and machine communication.  If that is what you are looking for, look somewhere else.  This book is nearly impossible to understand.  I read the book for a graduate level course in Ethnomethodology and I didn't really understand it very well.  By no means am I an expert in Ethnomethodology, but I'm pretty sure I know more about it than probably 95% of the world's population (keep in mind I don't know very much at all), so I'm pretty confident most people would find this book nearly impossible to decipher.	2003-02-05
US	47757359	R3QD03BUDI3REK	0964261006	312354096	Pope Fiction: Answers to 30 Myths & Misconceptions About the Papacy	Books	1	15	119	N	N	Apologetic Trash filled with logical errors	Apologetic Trash!<br />I guess I should have realized it before reading this book (well, before buying it), but I didn't. I actually thought this was going to be an intellectual account of the commonly cited misdeeds of the Catholic Popes. Well, it isn't. What it is, is an apologetic work that contradicts itself from chapter to chapter in trying to make an argument for why the Roman Catholic Papacy is legitimate. In so doing the book attempts to refute all of the arguments made against the legitimacy of the papacy, including such things as: the pope's involvement (or lack thereof) in World War II and the murdering of the Jews; whether or not the pope has a tiara with 666 on it, etc.<br />As with most apologetic work, the author stretches arguments, pushes logical fallacies out windows, quaintly misquotes (while accusing detractors of doing the same), and butchers history. And I can make that accusation without being an expert on Catholic history. As a matter of fact, I wouldn't claim to know a lot about Catholic history. But what I do know is that this book really isn't worth your time or money. Having studied history, read academic books on history, and studied some philosophy and logic, this book is a poor excuse for an argument.<br />If you are Catholic and like to argue with Protestants or other detracting groups and don't care whether or not your arguments make logical sense, then this might be a good book for you. If not, the weak attempts at historical accounting don't even make it worth reading. There are better books out there than this for studying the history of the popes. Don't waste your time.<br />Addendum: I guess I am being a bit harsh here and am not really backing up my claims, am I?  Well, I apologize.  I would just suggest, in the end, that you look for an academic book on the popes, like 'Saints & Sinners: A History of the Popes'<BR>by Eamon Duffy.	2003-01-30
US	47757359	R13IE7BQR9YQ5L	006093221X	461102948	Mars and Venus on a Date: A Guide for Navigating the 5 Stages of Dating to Create a Loving and Lasting Relationship	Books	3	24	36	N	N	Dating advice for traditional men and women	I borrowed this book from my brother about four years ago.  Four years later I have been married for three years and decided to finally read the book.<br />Summary:<BR>The basic idea of the book is that there are five stages to the dating process:<BR>1. Attraction<BR>2. Uncertainty<BR>3. Exclusivity<BR>4. Intimacy<BR>5. Engagement<br />The rest of the book is a collection of insights on how to make relationships successful or how to recognize when it is time to end a relationship.<br />My Comments:<BR>First, I must admit that being involved in a traditional relationship (I am a married heterosexual) the insights in the book seemed fairly relevant and well designed.  But, this is also one of the problems I see with the book.  The book is designed exclusively for traditional, heterosexual relationships.  If you are not a man or a woman looking for someone of the opposite sex to marry, then this isn't the book for you.  The ultimate goal, as defined in the book, is marriage.  If you are not looking to get married, then this isn't the book for you.<br />The book is written from a very traditional perspective.  With the increase in non-traditional relationships (homosexuality, bisexuality, cohabitation, etc.) this book could alienate a lot of people.  Also, there are continual references to God throughout the book.  These references often coincide with a concept the author calls 'soul mates'.  There is a trend in American society away from the traditional view of God, specifically  seeing God as an active force in people's lives.  As a result, this book could also alienate those people that don't believe in God or don't feel that God is active in their lives.  And the idea of soul mates (as Dr. Gray outlines it in the book it is the idea that there is one special person for you out there) is, in my humble opinion, very outdated.  Perhaps Dr. Gray isn't arguing that there is only ONE person that you could marry, but he seems to think that there aren't very many - if thereis more than one - and that they are hard to find.  <br />Another major problem with this approach to relationships is that Dr. Gray presents relationships in a very functional sense.  Let me explain... Instead of saying that perhaps the way people approached romantic relationships in the past (pre 1990) may not have been the best way to do it (men calling women, being responsible for everything that takes place, women being receptive rather than aggressive, etc.), Dr. Gray incorporates all of these things into his theory about how relationships and dating are supposed to work.  He seems to argue that because these behaviors exist they must be necessary.  This is a circular argument from which one cannot escape.  They are necessary so they must exist.  They exist because they are necessary.  I would argue that the traditional dating patterns of bygone ages are outdated and anti-modal.  Sure, he offers ideas and thoughts where men and women can change, but he also seems to be arguing that a lot of things should just plain stay the same.  I disagree out right with this idea.  We live in a different time.<br />I should also mention that the version I read is 370 pages long.  It could have been condensed to about 150 pages and still covered everything he wanted to say adequately.  <br />On the positive side, because I am in a heterosexual relationship, I did find some of Dr. Gray's insights helpful.  However, the one's that I found applicable to my relationship I found by sifting through the broad, sweeping claims he makes about genders and in between comments about how God will help us find our partner and how we can find a soul mate; all of which I thought was worthless trash.  <br />Overall, this book would be useful to someone that firmly believes in God, wants a traditional relationship with a woman, and believes that the old way of dating/courting is still the right way.  If this describes you (it probably describes over 60% of the U.S. population, meaning Dr. Gray understands there is a market for this type of stuff) then this would be a good book.  If you don't meet this criteria, look elsewhere.	2003-01-28
US	47757359	R321Q8APOY8VZ0	0739102303	496750275	Promise Keepers and the New Masculinity	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Not for the average reader, but excellent for academics	It is kind of difficult to rate an academic book.  I give this one three stars because it doesn't particularly flow.  I think it could also stand to have something of a history on the Promise Keepers at some point, but I'll get to that in a minute.<br />I read this book because I work with the editor of the book, Rhys H. Williams.  The book is essentially six academic papers/essays reporting findings on the Promise Keepers .  Rhys H. Williams gives an introduction to the book and his sister, Gwyneth Williams gives an epilogue/postscript exploring the change roles and expectations of men as father's and husbands.  <br />In the introduction, Rhys explains how the book came together and of what it consists.  He also briefly talks about how difficult it is to approach a social phenomenon and gain an understanding of it.  And, Rhys includes very brief comments on each of the chapters in the book.  I felt the introduction could have better grounded the reader by first including a history of the Promise Keepers.  It would not have to be a very long history, but detailed enough for the reader to understand the group that that is being studied.  <br />The chapters include qualitative and quantitative studies examining different aspects of the Promise Keepers.  The chapters range from how the Promise Keepers view race to the different gender roles that are espoused by the movement's leaders and the movement's participants.  <br />After reading the monograph (it isn't really a book), I did feel that I had a better understanding of the Promise Keepers.  As the monograph explains, the Promise Keepers, though definitely situated further on the right than on the left in political and religious terms, are not exclusively so.  There is a wide variety of views within the group and an increasing variety of educational levels and ethnicities.<br />Overall, the book is academic in nature and not for the average reader.  In a sense this may be 'too bad' because the information containedin the monograph could be very useful for individuals that are considering joining the group but would not be readily accessible as easy reading for them.  <br />If you have an academic interest in the Promise Keepers then this book is likely a must.  Or, if you interested in social movements and religion, this book might also be of interest to you.  But for the average layperson that does not have a background in the social sciences, this probably isn't the book you're looking for.	2003-01-21
US	47757359	R38Z8KRBHN2WV8	0028643380	263430342	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Philosophy (2nd Edition)	Books	3	29	37	N	N	Useful if you have no knowledge of the topic	I originally bought this book because I was supposed to supplement a creative writing class I was teaching with an occasional exploration of philosophy.  I thought the book might present philosophy at a beginner's level that would make it interesting for my high school class.  I never used it.<br />This is a decent book though.  I'm a little hesitant to applaud the author and recommend the book to just anyone.  First, the author.  Jay Stevenson does have a PhD, but not in philosophy.  That worries me.  Sure, he may know quite a bit about philosophy, I'm sure there are a lot of people without degrees in philosophy that know a lot about it, but why would The Complete Idiot's Guide people hire a non-PhD to write a book about philosophy when there are thousands of unemployed, professionally trained philosophers looking for work?  Who knows.  Maybe they thought Stevenson, whose credentials are in English, could do a better job getting his point across.  <br />Second, why I wouldn't recommend the book to just anyone.  For two reasons.  First, the writing is a little boring at times and for people that aren't interested in philosophy, this book probably won't suck you in and make you want to read it.  Second, the philosophies are dumbed down almost to the point that it isn't really worth reading about them.  The book turns into a nicely packaged dictionary with fun little explanations rather than a treatise on philosophy.  But, what should we expect, right?  This is, after all, The Complete Idiot's Guide.  So, the book is boring and not a very detailed explanation of the philosophies that it attempts to discuss.  However, for an introduction to someone that is interested but knows absolutely nothing, this book probably wouldn't be too bad a place to get ideas of where to look for more information.<br />Overall, the book was semi-useful in exploring most philosophical perspectives but could have benefited from more depth in discussion of the philosophies and perhaps a history of philosophy (maybe even in some sort of graph-like form).	2003-01-21
US	47757359	R1HN6CDGOYU5ZY	0345342399	201936019	How to Be Your Own Best Friend	Books	3	28	38	N	N	Very insightful, but a bit manipulative	This is another self-help book that I received from my wife's grandmother's library when she passed away.  The book is thin and fairly small, making it a short read (about 40 minutes total).  It is set up as a dialogue between a psychotherapist and a patient or perhaps journalist.  Before I go any further I should mention that I read the 1971 version rather than the 1990 version, so obviously things are going to be a bit different.  With that in mind, the criticisms I have about the book may no longer apply.<br />First, the criticism...<br />This book was written during the time period in which the American Psychological Association still recognized homosexuality as a disorder.  In this edition of the book it is seen as such and used as an example of people that can change if they really want to.  I'm assuming that homosexuality isn't seen as a disorder in the newer editions, but, you'll just have to read it to find out I guess.<br />The second criticism was the format of the book.  Though I recognize it as a tactical device to sell you on the philosophy of the book, the dialogue between the patient/journalist and the psychotherapist is a bit too contrived to be of any real use.  The questions asked are very leading and leading in a direction that is always favorable to the answer the psychotherapist has.  At the end of the book the questioner admits that they are 'convinced' of the correctness of the philosophy of the book.  Please.  That kind of stuff never happens in psychotherapy, but it is a good sales tactic - we convinced this person in the book, we should be able to convince you.  To make it an even better sales tactic they should have the questioner in the book be a nameless business-world kingpin, or Larry King, or some other hard-nosed reporter, someone that the reader of the book can identify as being very astute and not easily persuaded (not that any of the examples I gave necessarily are).  That would work even better.<br />Third criticism, some timesthe information is presented as though there is some state of happiness that can be attained.  Now, call me cynical, but I don't know that I buy into the 'state of happiness' theory anymore.  I used to think that people could 'arrive at' a state of happiness, but I'm just not that sure anymore. However, this review isn't supposed to be a place where I propose my own theories, so I'll just have to write my own book on that topic I guess.<br />Last criticism.  As psychotherapists the authors should know that they can't solve people's problems by having them read books.  Psychotherapy involves a lot more than that (I'm not an expert, but a degree in psychology and a year working in a mental institution should be worth something).<br />Now that I have offered my criticisms, I must admit that the book is very insightful.  It is traditional psychotherapy to the fullest extent.  There is a lot of talk about exploring childhood problems and overcoming the damage that they did to you.  The discussion is very persuasive at times and I found a lot of the advice to be very insightful.  Like I said before, I read the 1971 edition so things may have changed quite a bit, but I'll give you some of the quotes I really liked anyway...<br />Q. Accept the messiness and the mistakes? But I thought the point was to stop making them.<BR>A. If you do, you'll be the only one. (p. 83)<br />Q. But what if you can't manage everything you'd like to do - few of us can - and you have to make choices?  When does doing good things for yourself become pure self-indulgence?<BR>A. Doing what makes you feel good about yourself is really the opposite of self-indulgence... It does mean being self-centered enough to care for yourself and to take care of yourself.  If you don't learn how to do that, you can never care properly for others. (p. 35)<br />Overall, there are a lot of great insights in this book.  The reason I rate is as low as I do is because of a fundamental disagreement about happiness and also because of the manipulative format (I'm assuming their views on homosexuality have changed, if not, then it should get a zero).  Perhaps things have changed in later editions.  If so, great for the authors and I hope someone posts a response to this review letting me know that.	2003-01-15
US	47757359	R3L3U0WXKC6Q1X	0465053130	959872820	The Origin Of Humankind (Science Masters Series)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Good introduction into Human Evolution	If I were an expert on anthropology and human evolution I probably wouldn't be reading a book on it from the Science Masters Series.  This is really something of a primer on human evolution for people like me (I'm a Sociology graduate student) that are interested in the topic but really have very little background in biology or anthropology.  Admittedly, I did find some of his topics overly interesting because of their apparent relationship to topics addressed by Sociology.  One of these was the notion of consciousness.  He attributes the idea of the Inner Eye/Inner 'I' to Humphrey, 1986.  Perhaps Humphrey pulled a fast one on anthropologists because his interpretation is a rehash of George Herbert Mead's Symbolic Interactionism and his conceptions of consciousness and the 'I' and the 'Me'.  <br />Aside from that criticism, I found the book to be a very enjoyable read.  I have something of a background in biology (no expert by any stretch), but with what little background I do have the concepts discussed were not over my head.  For individuals that have a good high school and perhaps college education, this book shouldn't be too difficult to digest and should be rather informative.  I think I was most intrigued by the discussion of the human mind and consciousness, but the entire book was interesting (in a positive way) to me and I would highly recommend it.  <br />There was one quote from Richard Dawkins in the book that I found particularly insightful (whether true or not, I don't claim to know), &quot;Perhaps consciousness arises when the brain's simulation of the world becomes so complete that it must include a model of itself.&quot; (p. 142).<br />And another quote which isn't so much the quote but the content, &quot;Skilled players of the game-those equipped with a more acute mental model, a sharper consciousness-would have enjoyed greater social and reproductive success.  This is grist for natural selection, which would have raised consciousness to higher andhigher levels.  This gradually unfolding consciousness changed us into a new kind of animal.  It transformed us into an animal who sets arbitrary standards of behavior based on what is considered to be right and wrong.&quot; (p. 154).<br />Overall, there are undoubtedly other books out there with more up-to-date information.  The presentation of the material in this book also reveals that with every passing year the information in the book will become more and more outdated - so it is with science.  But for an introduction to human evolution, I very much enjoyed it.	2003-01-14
US	47757359	R3P5X7BAZO6UR9	0875292178	729865340	A friend indeed;: Warm thoughts on the meaning of friendship,	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Cute, but probably not worthy your money or time	This is another book in the collection of books that I inherited from my wife's grandmother.  It is essentially a very short collection of thoughts on friendship.  Of the fifteen to twenty thoughts on friendship (how do you get something like this published?) I would say maybe five were really fine thoughts.  I read the entire thing twice in under five minutes.  I don't know that it is worth your money to buy it seeing as how you could undoubtedly find most if not all of the quotes online these days.  But perhaps it would be a cute gift for a very good friend.	2003-01-13
US	47757359	R14ZOYO19O1Y2A	0553227718	577955826	Greatest Success in the World	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Interesting, but not groundbreaking	I'm not an expert on inspirational books.  I read this because I love reading and I picked it up from my wife's grandmother's book collection when she passed away.  Anyway, on to the review... <BR>    The story in the book is about a man named Zaccheus but is told from the perspective of his friend and confidant Joseph.  Zaccheus is disfigured/crippled in the sense that he is extremely short because of his misshapen legs.  He is also an orphan.  But despite his trials in life he becomes the richest man in all of Jericho and possibly all of Israel.  Joseph is kind of like his chief counselor.<BR>    The story is really a facade for the rules of success that Og Mandino wants to teach you.  Near the end of the story - it took me about 30 minutes to read the entire book - the 10 rules to success (only 9 are listed initially but the 10th appears soon thereafter) are presented as entire chapters.  The rules aren't really all that much to shout about, but I guess it could help some people so, here they are (simplified for you by me):<BR>1. Work hard.<BR>2. Be patient.<BR>3. Set goals.<BR>4. Plan on hard times.<BR>5. Don't let the hard times get you down.<BR>6. Dreams are worthless unless realized.<BR>7. Don't ruminate about the past.<BR>8. Simplify your life (not really sure what he means by this one).<BR>9. Live like today is your last day on earth.<BR>10. Be yourself.<br />Seems like common sense to me, but that's just me.  Suggestions... If you like stories, look for a good novel and not something by Og Mandino.  If you want self help or inspirational, I guess the format makes it more enjoyable than something by Stephen Covey but I would still recommend Dale Carnegie's books for usefulness and entertainment value.	2003-01-08
US	47757359	R1YX86H26JXAN7	0553713108	17508097	Red Rabbit (Jack Ryan)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Clancy's Best Work	The story is set on the eve of the collapse of the communist regimes in Poland, East Germany and eventually Russia.  The basic idea is that the current Pope has sent a letter to the government of Poland with the intent of forcing them to allow greater civil freedoms.  Because of the turbulent situation in Poland at the time of the letter Russia realizes that they must do something to prevent the Pope's threat from being realized or the entire government of Poland could collapse.  Their answer: assassinate the Pope.  Though the historical setting is interesting, the conclusion (the collapse of the soviet empire) is left unexplored.  The main focus of the story is on a defector from Russia's secret service who works in the communications department.  Jack Ryan serves as his escort out of Hungary and eventually back to the U.S.A.  <BR>    I listened to this book on tape while driving to and from Washington DC.  I usually enjoy Tom Clancy novels because of the intrigue and the action.  Though I must admit to enjoying the novel because it kept my interest, it was something of a let down.  This was supposed to be another book in the Jack Ryan series but Jack does, I'll apologize in advance for the bad pun, 'jack'.  The book is really about the defector and Jack only plays a minor part in the story.  Perhaps Tom Clancy has run out of plots, who knows.  I don't think it's his best work.	2003-01-08
US	47757359	R2SCTKM62O6R2H	0060536977	245555180	Prey CD	Books	3	4	18	N	N	Enjoyable and Interesting - but a rehashed plot device	The story goes as follows: Jack, a computer programmer who worked on grouped processing is out of a job.  His wife Julia has an executive position with a company that is using Jack's programs to develop nanotechnology spy tools for the government.  The technology comes to life, goes berserk, and Jack is called in to figure it out because he understands the program.  With a few interesting but highly implausible twists (as if the whole thing isn't somewhat implausible) Jack ends up saving the day, but in doing so kills his wife who has in part caused the mess.<BR>    I enjoy reading Michael Crichton novels because he usually teaches you something about science.  What I find more interesting about Crichton is that he seems stuck on certain notions, namely Chaos Theory.  Perhaps it is true that nature is uncontrollable (to a degree at least) and that, try as we might, we cannot predict what life will do, but how many times can you use this as a plot device?  This was the entire story to Jurassic Park I, and II, and III.  He does make an interesting point about psychology and how individuals may be very insightful of the problems facing other people but are usually pretty bad at understanding their own psychological problems.  Overall the book was interesting to read but not my favorite Crichton novel.	2003-01-08
US	47757359	R3RYK70UIN3QH6	0226617440	620869960	The Mormons. (Phoenix Books)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The definitive sociological analysis of Mormonism	I am currently studying to become a sociologist in the specialty of religion.  I am also Mormon (LDS).  This book is likely the most cited reference for a sociological treatise of Mormonism in the literature regarding the sociology of Mormonism.  It presents a fair and accurate history of the Mormons.  The sociological analysis does not favor the validity of the divine claims of Mormonism, but what sociologist could recognize those claims as true?  The author has obviously spent a great deal of time researching Mormons and Mormonism and his work is still largely applicable today.  There are several sections dealing with irrigation and recreation that seem dated (it was published in 1956-57).  Also, O'Dea was not privy to the membership boom of the Mormon church that took place in the 1960's and is continuing today.  Thus, his insights into the future of the Church are slightly off.  However, if you were to couple this reading with some of the works by the Shepherd twins (Gary and Gordon) and perhaps Jan Shipps, you would have a fair and accurate representation of the current theories and analyeses of the Mormon Church.	2002-04-06
